THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2014-01-29

To the Bahá'í youth in the Cradle of the Faith

183 29 29 January 2014 To the Bahá’í youth in the Cradle of the Faith, 29.1 Almost a year has passed since we called the Bahá’í youth

throughout the world to a higher recognition of the significant contribution they are to make to the regeneration of the world and the unity of its peoples, and invited them to join those in the vanguard of service to humankind. In doing so they were asked to recognize that countless other young people aspire to the same vision of unity, justice, and prosperity by which they themselves have been  galvanized. To consider this critical responsibility, we encouraged them to participate together with their close friends in an unprecedented series of 114 conferences spanning the globe.

29.2 The conferences were an occasion for the participants to

reflect on the astonishing powers and unique capacities asso-ciated with the period of youth and to consider deeply those societal forces that exert themselves on the youth—forces that aim to distract them from  significant social change, weaken their commitment to service, ensnare them in consumerism, and dissuade them from belief in their own God-given capacity and that of others. The participants considered, too, practical ways in which to counter those effects, build bonds of friendship and profound connection, promote unity, and equip themselves with  the concepts needed to succeed in constructing a new world through collective endeavor.

29.3 The admirable response of the Bahá’í youth and thousands

of their friends offered another glimpse of the fulfillment of Bahá’u’lláh’s hope that in the heyday of life and their prime of youth souls would arise in service. By any measure—the stren- uous and at times heroic efforts they made to attend, the depth of understanding and insight they attained, or the enthusiasm and determination they demonstrated to transform their world 184 FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONand serve their society—the initial outcome of these gatherings was extraordinary.

29.4 You have certainly heard the news of these conferences and

may indeed have seen the beautiful images and films from the gatherings; you may even have had the chance to study with others the concepts and themes that were the central feature of the gatherings. Undoubtedly you will derive a fresh mea- sure of energy and zeal as you reflect on these concepts and consider the implications they hold for your lives and for your circumstances. 29.5 As the valiant youth in the Cradle of the Faith, you are well

aware of your mission to be a source of hope to those around you, to be channels of love and affection, to be symbols of for - giveness and patience, of serenity and strength to your compa-triots, and above all, to be in the front ranks of that process by which the worldwide community has learned to build capacity for service, heighten unity, deepen understanding, and hone abilities so that purposeful action for the benefit of mankind may ensue. Through the spiritual and social transformation thus promoted, the Bahá’í world has come to realize that what is being cultivated is a process that enhances orientation to service and commitment to the application of the divine precepts—a process that holds far-reaching implications for the life of the individual and for the betterment of the world.

29.6 We know, of course, the privations and limitations under

which you labor. Whether in pursuing your education, earning a livelihood, working towards your legitimate aspirations, or practicing your faith, your freedoms are curtailed by many an injustice. From the very beginning the compatriots of Bahá’u’lláh have shared in the suffering He sustained. You are the embodiments of these words of the Master: “Thou didst follow in the footsteps of the Blessed Beauty and didst drink a cup from the ocean of His tribulations.” But you know, too, that it is precisely your staunchness that lends such lustre to the qualities your community exhibits. You may be sure that it is not only history that tells of the courage and steadfastness of your community, but that the significance of a community that under severe and sustained oppression has remained forward looking, dynamic, vibrant, and committed to serve its society, is not lost on those who dispassionately view your present situation. Perhaps the most compelling and clear example of your constructive resilience is evident currently in your earnest 185

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]