Lights of ‘Irfán
Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars
Book Four

Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfán represent the views of their authors.
Reproductions from this compilation are permitted provided that
the sources and authors are clearly indicated, with the exception of
provisional translations, which are not to be further distributed.
‘Irfán Colloquia
Bahá’í National Center
1233 Central Street
Evanston, IL 60201
USA
Phone: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3527
E-mail: iayman@usbnc.org
www.irfancolloquia.org
Lights of ‘Irfán
Papers Presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars
Book Four
General Editor Iraj Ayman
Sponsored by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
160 B.E. 2003 C.E.
Copyright © 2003, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
Design and Artwork by Trey and Lynne Yancy
Typeset by Jonah Winters, winterswebworks.com
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four

T
he existence of authoritative interpretations does not pre-
clude the individual from engaging in the study of the
Teachings and thereby arriving at a personal interpretation
or understanding. A clear distinction is, however, drawn in the
Bahá’í Writings between authoritative interpretation and the
understanding that each individual arrives at from a study of its
Teachings. Individual interpretations based on a person’s under-
standing of the Teachings constitute the fruit of man’s rational
power and may well contribute to a greater comprehension of the
Faith. Such views, nevertheless, lack authority. In presenting
their personal ideas, individuals are cautioned not to discard the
authority of the revealed words, not to deny or contend with the
authoritative interpretation, and not to engage in controversy; rather
they should offer their thoughts as a contribution to knowledge,
making it clear that their views are merely their own.
The Kitáb-i-Aqdas:  Notes, p. 221-222
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four

Table of Contents
Preface  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .iii
An Epistle of Sayyid ‘Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan Abdulmecid
Necati Alkan  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .17
The Call into Being: Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
Ian Kluge  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .79
The Tablet to Hardegg (Law˙-i-Hirtík): A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh to the Templer
Leader Georg David Hardegg
Stephen Lambden  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .97
The Tablet of the Bell (Law˙-i-Náqús) of Bahá’u’lláh
Stephen Lambden  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .111
The Tablet of Maqsúd (Law˙-i-Maqsúd): Guidance on Human Nature
and Leadership
Ramin Neshati  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .123
The Uses of Genealogy and Genealogical Information in Select Persianate
and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources:  A Preliminary Survey
Sholeh A. Quinn  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .131
An Exposition of the Tablet of the World (Law˙-i-Dunyá)
James B. Thomas  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .141
Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III
Ismael Velasco  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .151
Elucidations
Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion
Research department of the Bahá’í World Centre  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .163
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation
Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .165
The ‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .167
“Thee” and “thee” in the translation of the Súrih of the Temple (Súriy-i-Haykal)
Khazeh Fananapazir  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .179
Appendices
Contents of previous volumes of Lights of ‘Irfán  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .181
English-Language Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquium  . . . . . . . . . . . . .183

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
ii

Prefac e
LIGHTS OF ‘IRFÁN, Book Four, concludes the first decade of the ‘Irfán Colloquium’s activ-
ities. It ushers in a new decade that will hopefully witness the inauguration of the ‘Irfán
Colloquia in more major languages of the world and expansion of its sphere of activities
beyond North America and Europe. ‘Irfán Colloquium that started in Europe, in New Castle,
England in late 1993 and was conducted in English, soon found its way into North America and
embarked on conducting annual sessions in both English and Persian. In July 2003 the
Colloquium in German language will be launched in Tambach-Diethartz which will mark the
fiftieth session of the ‘Irfán Colloquium.
Presentation of studies in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh has been the main focus of the activ-
ities of the Irfan Colloquium since 1995. In 2002 a new project was launched for presentation
of the studies in the Writings of Báb and of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. A further development is the for-
mation of the “Bábí-Shaykhí Studies Interest Group.” The ‘Irfán Colloquium that was held at
the Louhelen Bahá’í School in 2002 included an extensive seminar on Qayyúmu’l-Asmá, “the
first, the greatest, and the mightiest of all books in the Bábi Dispensation.” It was a unique
occasion for the presentation of a series of scholarly papers all of them focused on various
parts or aspects of that book.
The ‘Irfán Colloquium established and mainly supported by Háj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial
Fund is a project devoted to the promotion of scholarly studies in the scriptures and in the
fundamental principles of the Bahá’í beliefs. Selections of the papers, in English, presented at
the Colloquium are regularly published in the volumes of The Lights of ‘Irfán and Scripture
and Revelation. Lights of ‘Irfán also contains items not presented at the Colloquia but con-
tributed for the benefit of the participants at the ‘Irfán Colloquia.
The current volume of The Lights of ‘Irfán presents a wide range of articles presented dur-
ing the Colloquia in English language conducted in 2002. A provisional translation of the his-
toric Epistle of the Báb to Sultan Abdulmecid of Ottoman Empire is presented with some
introductory information. From the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh the provisional translations of the
following Tablets together with their historical background are included in this volume: Tablet
of Maqsud, Tablet of Náqús (the Bell), first Tablet to Napoleon III, and the Tablet to the
Templer Leader Georg David Hardegg are presented. This volume also opens a new line of
inquiry through the comprehensive study of the Aristotelian philosophy from the perspective
of Bahá’í belief, followed by an article on Bahá’í Existentialism. It is hoped that these two
papers will encourage further philosophical studies in the Bahá’í Writings and conceptual prin-
ciples. The article on genealogy focuses on yet another line of studies by examining certain
historical references in the Bahá’í Writings. Finally, the section on ELUCIDATIONS contains
four enlightening items. The two memorandums of the Research Department of the Bahá’í
World Centre on “Letters of Quranic Dispensation” and “Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion” are
published here with permission granted by the Universal House of Justice. And two very
enlightening items related to the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf which shed light on a delicate
point in the translation of that Epistle and offer original and valuable research on the source
of the ‘Akká traditions (hadiths) quoted in that book.
iii

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
All papers in this volume present the views and understandings of their authors. The texts
of the papers are published as provided by the authors, without further editing. The writing
styles and scholarly approaches are therefore different. Articles are published in this volume
according to the alphabetical order of the authors’ surnames. Abstracts of all the presentations
made at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars are published in a series of separate booklets.
Iraj Ayman
Chicago, April 2003
iv

An Epistle of Sayyid ‘Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan Abdulmecid
Some Notes on Early Bábís in the Ottoman Empire
introduced and translated by Necati Alkan
Introduction
I
n its first days the Bábí community encountered a combined opposition from the Iranian
and Ottoman authorities. Sayyid ‘Alí Mu˙ammad Shírází (1819-1850) ‘the Báb,’ the founder
of the Bábí Religion, commenced the proclamation of His mission to eighteen disciples
from among the followers of the Shaykhí school. He then directed them to go out and spread
the tidings of the advent of the forerunner or gate (Báb) of the Hidden 12th Imam, al-Mahdi,
in His person, without disclosing His real name. The new movement constituted a real danger
to the Shi‘i clerics in an atmosphere of growing social and economic hardships in times of
decline and the intrusion of Europe in the Middle East. Furthermore, the completion of thou-
sand hijrí years since the Great Occultation of Mu˙ammad al-Mahdi in 1260 (1844-1845) served
as a basis for messianic movements, in particular the Shaykhiyya school, in the Shi‘i holy cities
of Najaf and Karbala in Ottoman Iraq. The triangle of the Ottoman Empire, Iran and the
Sunni/Shi‘i ‘ulama, is important in this context. This paper deals with the rise of the Bábí reli-
gion and the reactions it received from the secular and religious powers vis-à-vis developments,
mainly the religious policy during the Tanzimat (‘reordering period’) in the Ottoman Empire
during early years of Sultan Abdulmecid’s reign (1839-1861) and in particular in the vilâyet
(province) of Iraq ruled by Necib Paﬂa, followers have in turn responded to the challenges they
faced.
The Historical Context
1.1. Sultan Abdulmecid
Abdulmecid (1823-1861) was the son of Sultan Mahmud II. (r. 1808-1839) and only sixteen
years old when he ascended the throne. We are told about his personality that he had a grace-
ful ‘girlish’ face, his stature being fragile and slender,1 and that he hated violence and blood-
shed to the extent that he changed the death penalty passed on some of his adversaries who
wanted to kill him, to life-long imprisonment in a citadel. His reign from 1839 until 1861 is
described as an ‘enlightened absolutism’ during the Tanzimat, which was between the rulers
before him and the Birinci Meﬂrutiyet, the ‘First Constitutional period’ (1876-1908) which
comprises the rules of his brother Abdulaziz and his son Abdulhamid II.2 Ten prime ministers
under Abdulmecid formed twenty-two cabinets, and Mustafa Reﬂid Paﬂa, ‘father of Tanzimat,’
who drafted the first reform edict, held six times the office of Sadrâzam (prime minister).
Abdulmecid, who became sultan and caliph at a very young age, was a decent and polite per-
son. Academic literature usually emphasises that he sincerely wanted to carry on his father’s
reforms with the same resolution, yet his gentle but weak character obstructed the management
of affairs and his reformist efforts. It was during his reign that imitation of European ways was

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
introduced and luxury and wasteful extravagancy, the building of new palaces and the court’s
expenses resulted in the financial ruin of the state.3 On the whole, he is presented as ‘young
and inexperienced’.4 He had, however, won the sympathy of the majority of his subjects and,
moreover, the appreciation of particularly Britain and France, basically thanks to the drafting
of the first (Gülhâne Hatt-ı Hümâyûn, 1839) and the second Tanzimat decrees (Islâhat
Fermânı, 1856) and their propagation.5
As to the first reform edict, modern historiography stresses that it was written under Western
influence, its ideas were borrowed from Western political theory and attribute the drafting of
the Gülhane Rescript mainly to Mustafa Reﬂid Paﬂa, Sultan Abdulmecid being not involved. A
recent study by Butrus Abu-Manneh, however, provides ample evidence that contradicts this
classical view in that it shows the impact of orthodox Islamic principles of the Naqshbandi-
Mujaddidi order on Sultan Abdulmecid, taught by his mother Bezmiâlem, and the contribution
of several high ranking political and mostly religious leaders in its drafting. In sum, this
rescript was composed in order to respond to the disregard of the sharí’a in governmental and
juridical levels, the prevailing misconduct and injustice by local governors and the sultans
themselves since the 18th century. Furthermore, it appears that not only members of the royal
family were influenced by the teachings of the Naqshbandiyya-Mujaddidiyya but also several
Palace functionaries at the Bâb-ı Âli, the Sublime Porte.6
At the closing years of Abdulmecid’s reign, however, the Empire had a huge amount of debts
which it could pay only by means of more debts, and the tendencies of more and more ethnic
groups towards autonomy was a proof for its physical disintegration.7 While in the 1840s the
sharí‘a had played an important role in measures for reform, after 1850 they took less and less
account of it, as Ottoman statesmen increasingly borrowed Western secular ideals and ideolo-
gies. During those years Abdulmecid appears too weak as to participate in the decisions of daily
politics and was in the grasp of his grand vizier Mustafa Reﬂid Paﬂa. It is reported that the sul-
tan was found slamming his head on the wall while praying to God to liberate him from Reﬂid’s
clutches.8 The same was the case with Âli Paﬂa and Fu’ád Paﬂa who in his and later in the reign
of Abdulaziz held the reins of state affairs in their hands: the sultan had almost no right of
decision in political affairs and seemed to have been a slave of his Paﬂas. Thus the ‘Young
Ottoman’ reformers’ critique in the 1860s was not directed against the sultan but mainly the
two pillars of the Porte, the ‘well-liked’ Âli and Fu’ád who are remembered by historians as
reform-minded precursors of modern Turkey.9 From the outset of Abdulmecid’s time in power,
he was surrounded by inexperienced wily bureaucrats who involved the unconscious Sultan in
their schemes.10 In the time of Abdulaziz those ‘little despots’ shot out branches into other
governmental institutions and had achieved unrestrained influence whereby they usurped much
power, interfering in all administrative details.11
For our purpose here, we may look at Abdulmecid’s religious policy. Be it through pressure
from Europe or not, he wanted to unite all of his subjects regardless of race and religion, into
one people as a rampart against nationalism; ‘in one word to nationalize all these fragments of
nations who cover the soil of Turkey, by so much impartiality, gentleness, equality and toler-
ance that each other finds its honour, its conscience in a sort of monarchical confederation
under the auspices of the Sultan.’12 Before the proclamation of the first imperial reform edict,
Abdulmecid announced that ‘because God had entrusted to our care the lands and the people
(memálik ve ‘ibád), we have to depend upon divine support and upon the spiritual aid of the
Prophet. Consequently it is our wish to see that the exalted ﬂerí‘at is applied in all matters and
that “all the inhabitants” (káffeyi ehálí . . . ve beríya) should enjoy tranquility and peace.’13 It
is noteworthy that the sultan’s addresses such as this to his ministers to follow ‘the law of jus-

An Epistle of the Báb to Sultan Abdulmecid
tice and equity in all matters,’ to be upright and honest, to eschew bribery and the like were
read in a council meeting and were not concerned with general principles of conduct.14 Still
later, Abdulmecid’s subsequent Islâhat Fermânı underlined the ‘attainment of full happiness for
all classes of our imperial subjects who are bound to one another by the heartfelt bonds of a
common patriotism and are equal in our equitable compassionate view.’15 Encouraged by the
atmosphere of religious liberty, Sufi †aríqas flourished again, like the Mevlevi and Bektaﬂi, and
new ones like the Naqshbandi were established in Istanbul.16
1.2. The Rule of Necib Paﬂa in Ottoman Iraq and the Relationship with Iran
Despite this atmosphere of religious tolerance in the Ottoman capital, the situation in the
problematic territory of Baghdad was at odds. The conflict between the Sunni Ottomans and
Shi‘i Iranians was aggravated by Shi‘i ‘ulama who during the late 18th and early 19th centuries
were driven by a missionary zeal to convert as many tribes. This can be attributed to several
reasons. An important factor was the religious and psychological motives of the Shi‘i clergymen
with their mentality of a minor sect, which had suffered persecution and restriction to pro-
claim their faith due to the dominance of the majority group. In the 19th century the ‘ulama in
Iraq were engaged in missionary activity on many levels. The Shi‘i among them frequently
engaged their Sunni counterparts and Ottoman officials and even Jewish rabbis in polemical
debates so as to prove the superiority of their sect. And as stated by Shi‘i sources, they always
controlled the situation, which lead to the conversion of the Sunnis to Shi‘a Islam. Shi‘i ‘ulama
were actively proselytising among the ranks of the Ottoman Sixth Army and the police force
in Iraq, as well.17
From 1831 the Ottomans tried to restore direct central rule in Iraq, superseding Mamluk
rule, which had enjoyed local autonomy since 1747. In 1842 the conservative Gürcü (‘the
Georgian’) Necib Paﬂa,18 the vâli (governor general) of the Baghdad district came to power and
embarked upon the task of centralising Ottoman rule there, ‘by force if necessary.’ He was also
known for opposing religious minorities. Necib Paﬂa was granted complete powers and rights
and assigned ‘the implementation of the Tanzimat’ of direct and centralised rule. Early in his
career he became a follower of the Mujaddidiyya, a branch of the religious order of the
Naqshbandiyya, founded by Shaykh Khalid. Necib was a deeply believing Sunni, and the con-
cept of Islam he favoured was Sufism. Thus, in his seven years as governor general in Baghdad
he not only promoted his own Khalidiyya order but also the Qadiriyya. On the other hand, he
neglected traditional Islamic institutions like mosques and madrasas. His disrespectful treat-
ment of the mufti Shaykh Mahmud al-Alusi shows Necib’s religious inclinations. A similar pol-
icy towards regarding Sufism can be seen later in the reign of Abdulhamid II, when Mahmud
Nedim Paﬂa—son of Necib—was advisor to the sultan.19
Necib’s appointment as vâli was in the eyes of the sultan ‘acceptable to reason.’20 And when
Necib demanded for Karbala to be an Ottoman stronghold, and in view of the hostilities
between the Empire and Iran, he was not willing to ‘leave in his rear a populous town, con-
taining many Persians, and governed by a set of lawless vagabonds . . . [who] defied the Sultan’s
authority, with a powerful tribe of Arabs close at hand ready to assist them in case of emer-
gency.’21 He decided to put an end to Iranian ‘oppression’ because Karbala belonged to the
Sultan by virtue of hereditary right, and that the sanctity of the city was no reason for Iranians
to live their in great numbers. Following some clashes with tribal and gang leaders, the
Ottomans violently took Karbala in January 1843.22
1.3. The Rise of the Bábí Faith
In addition to the hostility between Sunnis and Shi‘is and the disregard of especially the Shi‘i

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
‘ulama of Ottoman rule, the intensified messianic expectations at the beginning of the mil-
lennium of Imam Mahdi’s occultation in the year 1260/1844 worsened the Ottoman-Iranian
crisis. Necib Paﬂa was labelled as ‘Yazid,’ thus equating him with the much-hated Umayyad
caliph who had instigated Imam Husayn’s death at Karbala. Shi‘i poets begged the Hidden Imam
to return and liberate his people from Ottoman oppression who were the usurpers:23 ‘[T]he
modern Karbala tragedy was seen by many Shi‘is as cataclysmic events preceding the awaited
appearance of the Mahdi. It heightened messianic expectations in Shi‘ism, which were already
rising due to the approaching millennium of the Occultation of the 12th Imam, and apparent-
ly facilitated the appearance of the Bábí claims at least within the Shaykhí community.’24 The
Bábí Religion with its roots in the messianic Shaykhi movement within Shi‘a Islam, was a threat
to the Sunni officials who were traumatised by the conversions of not only Sunni tribes but
also Ottoman officials to Shi‘ism; so they wanted to prevent further rebellions.
After Sayyid KáΩim-i Rashtí’s (Shaykh A˙mad’s successor) refusal to designate a successor, the
Shaykhís split in different groups, one headed by Mullá Óusayn Bushrú’í. He refused all candi-
dates for succession and decided to retire for fasting and devotional acts with his friends in
order to seek guidance, as was customary for seminary students. It was Mullá Óusayn who first
accepted the Báb’s claim to be the Promised One at a meeting in the Báb’s house in Shiraz (22
May 1844). Before going Himself to the ˙ajj and His intended visit to the Shrine cities of
Najaf and Karbala to announce His appearance (Ωuhúr) and proclaim His mission, the Báb dis-
patched Mullá Óusayn to Tehran and Khorasan. Another disciple, Mullá ‘Alí Bas†ámí, was sent
as an emissary to the holy land,’25 the ‘Atabat, with the purpose of spreading the Báb’s message
before His arrival there. Bas†ámí’s task was to win over the Shaykhís and Shi‘i mujtahids for
the Báb’s cause.
1.4. The Trial of Mullá ‘Alí Bas†ámí, the Báb’s messenger
In mid-summer the same year Mullá ‘Alí arrived in Iraq. The Báb had entrusted him with a
message to the Shaykhi community, which was in the middle of an unsettled dispute over lead-
ership after Rashtí. Bas†ámí could convince a significant number of Shaykhis. In Najaf
Bas†ámí met Mu˙ammad Óasan Najafí,26 then the highest Shi‘i cleric, and gave him portions
of the Qayyúmu’l-Asmá’, one of the earliest and most important writings of the Báb. In
Najafí’s assembly Mullá ‘Alí declared that the Promised One had appeared in Shiraz and should
be accepted as the only legitimate religious source of authority in Islam and that His book
supersedes all former holy books. Bas†ámí’s statements caused an uproar among those present
and Najafí, being an enemy of heterodoxies and heresies, instantly pronounced Bas†ámí a
heretic. This was a serious challenge to the orthodoxy and authority of the ‘ulama. Headed by
Najafí, the mujtahids of Najaf and Karbala condemned the message Bas†ámí had delivered as a
blasphemy. The Báb’s envoy was captured and a letter was sent to the government in Baghdad
where he was charged with stirring up mischief and uttering slanders against Islam and
Mu˙ammad.27 This decision was agreed upon also to lessen the impact of messianic tensions
in the Shi‘i holy land as manifested by a considerable number of pilgrims. Otherwise this could
lead to another conflict and defeat by the Ottoman authorities.28
Bas†ámí was transferred to Baghdad. The governor Necib Paﬂa put him on trial by a special
commission consisting of high-ranking Sunni and Shi‘i ‘ulama, headed by the mufti Shaykh
Ma˙múd al-Alúsí. This was apparently the first of its kind in Ottoman history, for it is not
recorded that ‘ulama of the two factions had gathered in a joint assembly to try somebody. One
account of the trial states that this meant that the Ottoman government officially acknowledged
the Shi‘a.29 But although non-Muslim communities were given legal autonomy as part of their
millet-system, in fact the Ottomans refused to confer the Shi‘is the status of a separate millet

An Epistle of the Báb to Sultan Abdulmecid
(‘religious nation’), as the Shi‘is were not a protected minority (dhimmí) according to Sunni law,
but sinning Muslims. And granting them an independent millet status would be the same as
their exclusion from Islam and a separate religion like the Christian and Jewish millets.30
Consequently the Bas†ámí affair was a welcome opportunity for Iran to complain about the
Ottoman’s infringement upon the rights of Shi‘i subjects in Iraq.31
Despite Mullá ‘Alí Bas†ámí’s rejection by the Shi‘i ‘ulama around Najafí, he had success in
disseminating his call among theological students who struggled with the strenuous orthodox
Islamic learning. Whereas the Shi‘i ‘ulama denounced him as a heretic and wanted him to be
expelled to Iran and his writings destroyed, the Sunni clerics sanctioned this and accused
Bas†ámí of blasphemy. He should be punished by death penalty. The accounts of the trial dif-
fer from each other.32 On the other hand, as Abbas Amanat puts it, the ‘new heresy’ provided
a consensus despite the traditional enmities between the Sunni Ottomans and Shi‘i Iranians.
The joint fatwá condemned it, and as a turning point in their relations demonstrated that
longstanding doctrinal disputes could be temporarily settled in view of a threat that could
cause a new schism among Muslims, and to a certain extent reduced the ‘already dim prospects
of a Bábí mass success’ in the holy cities in Iraq and stood for the imminent enmities the new
creed would face.33
In Necib Paﬂa’s report to the Sublime Porte we read that a certain Mullá ‘Alí from Bas†ám in
Khorasan, pupil of the late dissident mujtahid Sayyid KáΩim in Karbala who led people astray,
came ‘two months ago’ (end of November 1844) to Najaf and showed to some people a book
composed of verses from the Qur’an which were blended with certain kinds of heretical fabri-
cations. Bas†ámí had stated, ‘This book is divine revelation. It is incumbent upon us to act
according to its laws. On the tenth day in the month of Mu˙arram the Mahdi will come from
Mecca to Karbala and manifest Himself. Await his coming.’ He proceeded to Karbala and
repeated his comments and showed his book to all sorts of people. Bas†ámí thereby secretly
won over some hundred heretics (mülhed), and the book was copied. Necib points out that
unless this situation, which entails unprecedented mischief (fesâdât-ı azîme) and is harmful to
the Ottoman Empire and the Islamic world, is noticed; it will change the minds of many igno-
rant persons from among diverse people (milel-i muhtelife ve cehele) and in particular mostly
heretical tribes (aﬂâir-i vükerâ), and mislead them from the straight path. Necib Paﬂa then cites
what Bas†ámí said at the interrogation:
When I was about to return from my native land [Iran] to here, a man from among the
sayyids [i.e., the Báb] ordered me and entrusted me [with the message]: “You are going to
Baghdad; take this book and give it to the mujtahids in Najaf and Karbala. Tell them that
I am the ná’ib [deputy] of the Mahdi. I will go to ˙ajj this year and from the ˙ajj I will go
to Karbala. The Mahdi will manifest Himself in [the month of] Mu˙arram in Karbala.” I
directly went to Najaf. All the ‘ulama were assembled in one place. I took the book and
gave it to them and conveyed what the sayyid had said. They opened the book; each of them
read one or two sheets of it and then threw it away. They did not treat me with courtesy.
Two days later I came to Karbala. The aforesaid book was circulated, and they sent [me] to
Karbala. The sheets were brought together there, and the kâ’im-makâm [the local gover-
nor] arrested me and sent me to you.
Upon asking Bas†ámí who sent this book and what his name was and if he had the whole book
with him, he responded, ‘The book I took with me should consist of approximately sixteen,
seventeen portions. But I do not know the sayyid’s name or the content of the book.’ Necib
says that this was a manifest lie (kezb-i sarîh), and every time Bas†ámí was tried, he gave con-
tradictory answers. In addition, according to people possessed of information, the book in

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
question was evidently the composition of his master Sayyid KáΩim, and Bas†ámí one of his
rebellious followers. Even in prison when two ostensibly uninformed men from among the local
people were imprisoned in order to befriend him and come around to an opinion during their
conversations, asked Bas†ámí why he was imprisoned; he recounted his aforementioned state-
ments to them and added that he will not recant his beliefs even if he were killed. Considering
Bas†ámí’s repeated denials and because the writings he had with him could be dispersed among
all kinds of people and result in an unpleasant situation, the heretics (Shaykhis?) in Najaf,
Karbala and Kazimayn who profess to be mujtahids, were transferred to an assembly compris-
ing several ‘ulama and the Iranian consul. There the confiscated writings were read and exam-
ined. It was concluded that those contained sheer blasphemies and the author is an infidel.
Necib Paﬂa finally adds that he cautioned the people that should anyone read those texts and
consent with its contents, he will be punished according to sharí‘a regulations and that he is
willing to enact whatever is decreed by the Sultan regarding Bas†ámí’s fate.34
In a second report Necib Paﬂa notes that although Bas†ámí is detained in prison in Baghdad
following the verdict passed on him, it was proposed that it would be more appropriate to send
Bas†ámí to Istanbul in order to prevent mischief because of the manifest blasphemies
(küfriyyât-ı sarîha) in the writings he was carrying. It was anticipated that if he were set free,
his presence in Baghdad would cause rumour among the people and the ‘ulama would be dis-
turbed by his grievous and infamous crime (fazîha-yı azîme).35
Later, in a memorandum from the Sadrâzam (prime minister) Rauf Paﬂa36 to Sultan
Abdulmecid it was stated that it was understood in a recent consultation that if the messenger
of the Mahdi remains imprisoned in Baghdad this will cause a dispute and provoke remarkable
annoyance; he therefore should be send to Mosul and afterwards be dealt with. However,
because the situation in Mosul was not much different from Baghdad and the ‘ulama’s rebellion
there had manifested itself at another instance, it was more appropriate that he be send to the
town of Bolu.37 And from there he may be send further ‘to one of the islands (adalardan
birine)’ where he can be further dealt with. It has been suggested that the word for ‘island’ reads
jazíra or cezîre in Ottoman Turkish and could have meant Cyprus, Crete or Rhodes,38 or even
Algeria.39 While it is true that those islands were traditional places of exile, it is not likely that
Algeria is meant here because in Turkish it is Cezayir. Moreover, the original text does not say
cezîre, but ada, being the Turkish word for ‘island’.40
In the same memorandum mention is made that the local governor of Bolu was informed of
the danger the book constitutes and is not to be exposed to the public, but should be burned
and destroyed. Abdulmecid approved the report of the Prime Minister.41 Yet obviously the
decision was altered. After the arrival of Mullá ‘Alí Bas†ámí to Istanbul, the Sublime Porte
referred his case again to Abdulmecid. This time it was suggested that if Bas†ámí was send to
an island, his activities could not be controlled; he might not keep his tongue and could con-
vert the people to his false ideas. Hence he should be put to hard labour imprisonment with
exile, or kürek, literally condemnation to the ‘galleys,’ in the imperial naval yard. Again, the
Sultan approved this decision.42
A report in Persian, probably written by the then Persian charge d’affairs in Istanbul, throws
some light on Bas†ámí’s fate. We learn that the Ottoman authorities had ‘summoned him to a
gathering and inquired about certain matters, and he, without practicing taqíyya, made certain
verbal confessions. Therefore according to the declaration of the ‘ulama of Baghdad and in view
of his own confessions, for a while he was sent for forced labor (kürek).’ And that on his way
to Istanbul ‘he was held for a while in Búlí [Bolu], before being removed to the capital.’ One
month after Bas†ámí’s confinement at the imperial dockyard, the Persian representative in the

An Epistle of the Báb to Sultan Abdulmecid
Ottoman capital protested at this decision, saying that he must be sent back to Iran, since he
was a Persian subject and ‘if he is found guilty of any charges, he will be punished by the exalt-
ed Persian government.’ But the Ottoman authorities ‘first denied that he was a Persian subject
by claiming that he had been a citizen of Baghdad, but after long persistence they gave way.’
About his tragic end it is said: ‘When they sent orders to lift his chains and release him from
forced labor, he had already passed away a few days earlier and come to the mercy of God.’ As
Amanat points out, we do not know the exact cause of his death.43
Bas†ámí’s appearance and the incidents associated with him not only caused an uproar among
Shi‘i and Sunni ‘ulama circles but also led to the acceptance of his message by large numbers,
especially among the Shaykhis. This was the first conflict between ‘ulama in Bahá’í history, and
the religious and secular opposition which Bas†ámí had met changed the Báb’s own plans to go
to the holy cities of Iraq after His ˙ajj, and thus changed the course of events in early Bábí his-
tory.44
The Báb’s Epistle to Sultan Abdulmecid
2.1 Circumstances and Response to the Ottomans
The Báb heard of Bas†ámí’s arrest while He was still in the Arabian Peninsula performing the
˙ajj. According to Abu’l-Qásim Afnán’s account of the Báb,45 the Báb asked Mullá Óasan
Gawhar (who saw himself as the leader of the Shaykhi school and successor of Sayyid KáΩim)
to deliver an epistle to the Caliph-Sultan Abdulmecid via Necib Paﬂa and to arrange for the
release of Mullá ‘Alí Bas†ámí. Unfortunately the initiatives did not take place, and instead
Gawhar signed the death warrant and condemnation (takfír) of the Báb and His disciple in the
joint Sunni-Shi‘i fatwá. In addition, we do not know whether the Báb’s letter in which He
pleaded for justice, ever reached Abdulmecid.
Afnan does moreover say that according to Báb’s Khu†batu’l-Jidda46 He returned from
Mecca to Masqat around Rabi‘ al-Awwal 1261/ca. 10 March 1845. He stayed in Mosqat for a
while to proclaim His mission to some local ‘ulama and arranged for the release of His disci-
ple from the hands of the vâli of Baghdad and the ‘ulama.47 Furthermore, Afnan writes, after
His return from Mecca the Báb sent letters to Mu˙ammad Sháh, the Iranian prime minister
Óájí Mírzá Áqásí, Sultan Abdulmecid and Gawhar from Bushihr in Iran and Masqat in present
Oman (March/April 1845) to bring about the release of Bas†ámí from the prison of Necib
Paﬂa.48
The Tablet the Báb intended to send to Sultan Abdulmecid is one of His early works.49 Shoghi
Effendi makes a note of the ‘Tablets to Sul†án ‘Abdu’l-Majíd and to Najíb Páshá, the Válí of
Baghdád’.50 Whereas Denis MacEoin mentions this in his bibliography of the Báb’s early works
and was not aware of the original Tablets or copies,51 the Tablet to Abdulmecid is extant at the
Bahá’í World Centre.52 There is no copy among the documents related to Bas†ámí’s trial at the
Baﬂbakanlık Arﬂivi in Istanbul.53 We may assume that the Tablets neither reached Abdulmecid
nor Necib Paﬂa. As to the Tablet to the latter, the Bahá’í World Centre could not locate It in its
archives.
Overall, there are some addresses of the Báb to kings. In an epistle to Mu˙ammad Sháh
(written some time in mid-May 1845, after His pilgrimage to Mecca and Medina), the Báb sum-
mons him to gather ‘the believers in God’s oneness’ (the ‘ulama?) to His presence and to deliv-
er them a letter which He has received from the ‘Remembrance of God’ and to bring forward
a single verse as He did. Then, speaking of Mullá ‘Alí Bas†ámí’s trial in Baghdad, the Báb asks
the Sháh to send ‘the letter of your Lord’ to Sultan Abdulmecid and all other kings.54 Elsewhere

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
the Báb commands the kings to ‘[d]eliver with truth and in all haste the verses sent down by
Us to the peoples of Turkey and of India, and beyond them, with power and with truth, to
lands in both the East and the West . . . ’.55
2.2. The Contents of the Epistle to Abdulmecid
The Báb begins His Tablet to the Ottoman Sultan with the Qur’anic Bismi’lláhi’r-Ra˙máni’r-
Ra˙ím, the glorification of God. He says that ‘this Book is the decree of God’ (˙ukmu’lláh) for
those on earth, sent down (nuzzila) from His ‘Servant ‘Alí, the All-Wise’ (min ladun ‘abdihi
‘alí ˙akím), i.e. the Báb, Who is the ‘path of God in the heavens and on earth’ (ßirá†u’lláh fí’s-
samáwát wa’l-ar∂).56 He advises the people to come forth for the Covenant of Baqiyyatu’lláh
(‘Remnant of God’),57 the ‘living, undoubted Leader’ (imám ˙ayy mubín), Who is the ‘Book
wherein there is no doubt’ (kitáb lá rayba fíh) and calls men to the ‘straight path’ (ßirá† qawím).
The Báb identifies Himself as the ‘Mystery in the heavens’ (as-sirr fí’s-samáwát), conveying
the ‘Cause from the presence of the Remnant of God’ who is the ‘light from the right side of
the Mount [Sinai]’ (an-núr ‘an yamín a†-†úr).
The Báb then addresses Abdulmecid:
Read the Book of thy Lord, O Majíd, through the command of thy Lord in the preserved
Book (kitáb ˙afíΩ). Know thou that God hath knowledge of all things in the heavens and
on earth, and that thou art concerning the verdict passed on the messenger (rasúl, i.e.
Bas†ámí), the lord of great oppression (wa má kunta fí ˙ukmi’r-rasúl la-dhú Ωulm ‘aΩím).
Fear God, O thou man (rajul), for today there is no escape for anyone (fa-inna’l-yawma lá
mafarr li-a˙ad) except he believeth in the signs of thy Lord and is accounted among those
who prostrate [before Him].
Likewise, the Book was sent down for the kings (al-mulúk) that they might learn of the com-
mand of a new creation (bad‘) from the Remnant of God.
After commanding the Sultan to read this Epistle, the Báb asks him to assemble the people
of learning (úlú’l-‘ilm, ‘ulama) in his presence and to deliver them on behalf of the
‘Remembrance of God’ (Dhikru’lláh), to read His Book with justice and to be fair in their
judgment. For God has knowledge of all things and ‘He ordaineth the Day of Judgment (yawm
al-qiyáma) among all with equity (qis†).’58 One single verse of ‘this Book,’ the Báb says, is suf-
ficient and equals the verses that were previously sent down to Mu˙ammad’s heart (qalb), and
through it the ‘testimony of God’ (˙ujjatu’lláh) has been completed. ‘We make no distinction
between the Messengers of God, and to them do we bow our will’ (Inná na˙nu lá nufarriqu
bayna a˙adin min rusuli’lláhi wa-inná la-hum muslimún).59
Among the addressees in this Tablet are also the inhabitants of Istanbul (mala’ min ahl ar-
Rúm). They are warned to fear God and not to follow the command of †ághút lest they be reck-
oned as the ‘people of the fire’ (úlá’ika hum aß˙áb an-nár). The Qur’anic †ághút60 is usually
translated as ‘the evil,’ ‘the one who exceeds all bounds,’ ‘transgressor,’ ‘the Satan’ or ‘false
deities/gods’. Those who disbelieve in †ághút and believe in God hold the ‘sure handle’ (al-
‘urwatu’l-wuthqá). But those who disbelieve, their patrons are †ághút; they are led from light
to darkness and will be the companions of the fire wherein they abide (úlá’ika hum aß˙áb an-
nár fíhá khálidún), while the believers’ patron is God who leads them from darkness to light.61
The people of †ághút whom God has cursed and left without a helper, say that the disbelievers
are better guided than the believers. Those misguided are so greedy that they do not give their
fellow men even a speck in a date stone.62 Outwardly they speak of their belief in God’s
prophets but in reality they resort to the judgment of †ághút, although they are forbidden to
do so. Thus Satan misleads them.63 The believers in God who fight in the way of God are asked
to fight ‘the friends of Satan’ (awliyá’ ash-shay†án).64

An Epistle of the Báb to Sultan Abdulmecid
The Báb also states that God bears witness to ‘His Servant ‘Alí in the Qur’án’ and that He
is ‘the path of God in the heavens and on earth . . . He verily is the heir of the Messenger of
God (waßíy rasúli’lláh) in the lucid Book (kitáb mubín).’ The following verse, ‘And on this day
the dominion belongeth to one from His progeny,’ again refers to Himself, as He was a descen-
dant of Mu˙ammad. These statements are crucial in that the Báb establishes the fulfilment of
prophecies for the establishment of the Hidden Imam, the Mahdi. The Báb challenges the
accepted reading of the phrase ßirátá ‘alayya mustaqím, ‘This is a straight path incumbent upon
me,’ in Q. 15:41. The Báb renders it as ßirá† ‘alí mustaqím, which means ‘the straight path of
‘Alí.’65 The beauty and interpretation of this verse is also echoed in other instances: ‘Verily
God is My Lord and your true Lord, therefore worship Him, while this Path from ‘Alí [the Báb]
is none but the straight Path in the estimation of your Lord.’66 And further, ‘Verily God hath
revealed unto Me that the Path of the Remembrance which is set forth by Me is, in the very
truth, the straight Path of God. . . .’67
The Báb then asks the people to bring forward a proof from the Qur’an if they have doubts
regarding this command. His verses are the same as those of the Qur’an which were revealed to
the Seal of the Prophets (khátam an-nabiyyín), and that He is ‘the One who leadeth aright to
the path of God’ or the ‘Mahdi of the path of God’ (mahdí ßirá† Alláh). One verse revealed by
the Báb equals the verses previously revealed by the Prophets. ‘We have delivered the decree of
God in the Mother of the cities (ummu’l-qurá) [Mecca] and its surroundings in three Books,’
thereby probably alluding to Qayyúmu’l-Asmá’, Ía˙ífa Bayna’l-Óaramayn and another book.
Hence the people must follow the Cause of God in order to attain happiness. And should one
of them die disregarding God’s command, he is accounted of the people of the fire on the Day
of Judgment. ‘And whosoever repudiateth Our verses and leaveth not his home emigrating to
the city of the Remembrance (muhájiran ilá balad adh-Dhikr), We will send down his judgment
in the Book, like We have done in the Qur’an regarding Abu Lahab,’ a reference to Mu˙ammad’s
uncle, titled ‘father of the flame,’ and His fiery enemy, mentioned in Sura 111.
Once more, the Báb castigates Abdulmecid:
O thou man (rajul)! Thou hast followed Satan (shay†án)65 regarding the verdict to imprison
the messenger of the Remembrance (rasúl adh-Dhikr). Fear God after thou hast read a sin-
gle wondrous letter (˙arfan badí‘an) from Our Book. Do not repudiate the command of
God and send the messenger in accordance with the command We have send down in the
Book addressed to thee . . . Thou art not aware of the matter of the caliphate (khiláfa).
The messenger is a weak servant in those lands. Yet know full well that it is We that sent
him . . . Know thou God’s decree and send him after [thou hast read] this Book. . . . Follow
God’s command, O Majíd, and not thine idle imaginings that lead thee astray from the
path of God (sabíl).
Would Sultan Abdulmecid have acted in favour of Mullá ‘Alí Bas†ámí if he had received the
Báb’s epistle? We do not know, but it is known that he later pursued favourable policies towards
the Bábís on two subsequent occasions. The first is regarding Fá†ima Baraghání or ‘ˇáhirih,’
the noted and only female disciple of the Báb;69 the second is the respectful manner in which
Abdulmecid approached Bahá’u’lláh during His exile in Baghdad.
ˇáhirih was a famous poetess and scholar, well-versed and eloquent in Islamic theology and
very successful in the proclamation of the new Bábí creed both in Iran and in Ottoman Iraq,
especially in Najaf and Karbala. Her success in converting many to Bábism in Karbala provoked
the jealousy and anger of the Shi‘i ‘ulama, to such an extent that guards had to be placed at her
house for protection. In order to prevent further annoyance she was granted permission by the
Ottoman government to leave for Baghdad.70

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
In Baghdad ˇáhirih was hosted in the house of the chief mufti Mahmud al-Alusi, the same
individual who a short time earlier had been the leading mulla who issued a fatwá condemn-
ing Mullá ‘Alí Bas†ámí and the Báb. Al-Alusi seems to have later changed his attitude towards
Bábism because, according to a Bahá’í source,71 in his seminal work Rúh al-Ma‘ání he wrote
positively of conversations he had with ˇáhirih. In these unconfirmed references al-Alusi states
that he shares her beliefs but, because of the fear of being punished by the Ottomans, he was
not able to utter this publicly.72 In Baghdad, ˇáhirih continued spreading the Bábí Faith freely,
which caused a great outcry among the divines. The issue was taken to the governor general
Necib Paﬂa who asked Istanbul whether ˇáhirih was allowed to continue spreading Bábí teach-
ings. Three months later, an order was received from Sultan Abdulmecid to release her under the
condition that she stop advocating the Bábí Faith and leave the Ottoman empire.73
About a decade later, when Bahá’u’lláh was in exile in Baghdad, Sultan Abdulmecid seems to
have received positive reports about Him from various governors:
So struck, indeed, had the Sul†án ‘Abdu’l-Majíd been by the favorable reports received
about Bahá’u’lláh from successive governors of Baghdád (this is the personal testimony
given by the Governor’s deputy to Bahá’u’lláh Himself) that he consistently refused to
countenance the requests of the Persian government either to deliver Him to their repre-
sentative or to order His explusion from Turkish territory.74
In Kurdistan Bahá’u’lláh had personal contacts with distinguished Sufi shaykhs, among
whom He had won the heart of Shaykh ‘Uthman, the leader of the Naqshbandiyya Order. As
noted previously, Sultan Abdulmecid was a follower of that order, and we are told by Shoghi
Effendi that Abdulmecid was an adherent of Shaykh ‘Uthman.75 It is quite possible that the
Sultan’s high regard of Bahá’u’lláh was increased through this relationship.

An Epistle of the Báb to Sultan Abdulmecid
Epistle of Sayyid ‘Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan Abdulmecid*
In the Name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful.
Praise be to Him Who hath sent the Book unto whosoever He willeth among His servants.
Verily, there is none other God beside Him, the All-Possessing, the All-Praised. In His grasp He
holdeth the kingdom of all things. Nothing escapeth His knowledge. There is none other God
beside Him. Say: Him do all worship. Verily, this Book is a command from God unto all who
are on earth. Issue forth from your cities for the Covenant of the Remnant of God, the living,
the undoubted Leader [Imám]. He is indeed the Book wherein there is no doubt,76 sent down
from the presence of His Servant ‘Alí, the All-Wise. And He, verily, is ‘Alí, the All-Wise, the
Path of God77 in the heavens and on the earth. He calls the people to the Straight Path at the
bidding of thy Lord. He verily is the Mystery of the heavens, Who commands from the Presence
of the Remnant of God, the true and undoubted Leader. He, verily, is the Light from the right
side of the Mount Sinai in the Book of thy Lord. There is no God but Me. Say: Him do they
all fear.
Read the Book of thy Lord, O Majíd, through the command of thy Lord in the preserved
Book. Know thou that God hath knowledge of all things in the heavens and on the earth, and
that thou art concerning the verdict passed on the messenger [Bas†ámí], possessed of great
wrongdoing. Fear God, O thou man! For today no place is there for anyone to flee except he
believeth in the signs of God and is accounted among those who worship Him. We have sent
down a Book unto the kings that they learn of the command of the new creation from the pres-
ence of the Remnant of God, the just and true Leader. Thus was sent down the Book. Gather
them that are possessed of knowledge [‘ulama] in thy presence, and say unto them on behalf of
the Remembrance of God: Read ye the Book of God with justice and be ye fair in the presence
of God in what it ordaineth. God, verily, ordaineth the Day of Judgment among all with equi-
ty. He in truth is the All-Knowing, the All-Powerful. O concourse [of ‘ulama?]! Bear ye witness
that the Testimony of God is completed for you after reading the verses of this Book. God, ver-
ily, is the omniscient Witness. O concourse! Fear ye God and judge fairly: Is there any distinc-
tion in the sovereignty of God, whether one verse or several verses were to be revealed? Nay, by
the Qur’án! We make no distinction between the Messengers of God, and to God do we bow
our will.78 If the Qur’án was sent down as a single verse, how could anyone be able to fathom
the matter and say something with respect to it and utter such words? Sanctified be God from
those who join partners with Him. Sufficient is the Book for this as a witness to all in the
heavens and the earth, and God is the omniscient Witness. Were men to gather in order to read
a Book like this, which We have sent down now unto thee, they shall not and never will be able
to do this, even if the Jinn were to assist them79 despite their weakness. God is the All-
Informed, the All-Knowing. And We have sent down a Book aforetime; in it are evident vers-
es from Our presence to a people with hearing ears. Verily those who follow the verses of God
in truth, they are the rightly guided; and those who follow their vain imaginings, they are the
transgressors. O concourse of the people of Istanbul! Fear God, thy Lord, the Compassionate,
regarding this decree. He verily is the Truth, even as ye have believed in the Covenant of
God.80 Those who have joined partners with God have followed the command of the Evil One
(†ághút) after [some words missing in text], such are rightful owners of the Fire. They will
abide therein,81 according to the Book of God.
* This is a provisional translation for presentation and discussion at 'Irfán Colloquia. It is not to
be reproduced or further distributed in any form or medium. Translation revised with assistance
of Khazeh Fananapazir.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
God beareth witness to His Servant ‘Alí in the Qur’án. He, verily, is the Path of God in the
heavens and on earth.82 Nothing escapeth His knowledge. He is verily the heir of the
Messenger of God [Mu˙ammad] in a lucid Book. The heir of the dominion today is someone
from His progeny and a true Leader. He is the One in Whose hand is the kingdom of all cre-
ation and all are powerless before His might. And at the behest of the Book all creatures are
submissive to Him. If ye have any doubts concerning this Command then depart from the com-
mand of the Qur’án. God hath verily sent down these verses, as He hath sent down the Qur’án
to the heart of the Apostle of God, the Seal of the Prophets. And with the permission of God
He hath sent down to the heart of Him Whom He hath made the Proof for those in the heav-
ens and on earth. Verily, He is the One who leadeth aright to the Path of God in a lucid Book.
I, verily, am a Servant and have believed in God and His verses and what He hath sent down
in the Qur’án from One, mighty and wise. Say: I verily do deliver the Cause with the permis-
sion of God from the true and mighty Leader. He is in truth the Mystery in the Mother Book
upon an ancient Edifice.83 Know ye, O people of the earth, that on this day nobody can escape
the Cause of God. All will return to God on the Day of Resurrection. One verse, which We sent down
unto you, now equals the verses of the Prophets in accordance with the Book of God. Afterwards, all
the people will ask about the proofs of God.
We have delivered the Command of your Lord in the Mother of the Cities [Mecca] and to
those in her vicinity, in three Books of verses of truth. Say: Follow the Cause of God that per-
chance ye may be of them with whom it shall be well. If someone amongst you should die
rejecting this Command, verily he is among the people of Fire on the Day of Resurrection and
will be amongst those who are gathered [in God’s Presence]. Send thou a Book like unto this
Book to the King in that land in golden ink that perchance ye may be among the helpers. He
who disbelieveth in our verses and doth not leave his house emigrating to the City of the
Remembrance, We shall send down his verdict in the Book, the like of which hath been sent
with regard to Abu Lahab in the Qur’án.84 Fear God, O concourse, and have mercy on your-
selves. And bring not shame upon yourselves should ye have fear of that which hath been
revealed unto after God’s decree hath come to and these verses have been recited.
O thou man! Thou hast followed Satan regarding the verdict to imprison the messenger of
the Remembrance. Fear God after thou hast read a single wondrous letter from Our Book. Do
not repudiate the command of God and send the messenger [back] in accordance with the com-
mand We have sent down in the Book addressed to thee according to a mighty and wondrous
command. Thou art not aware of the matter of the caliphate. The messenger is a weak servant
in those lands. Yet know thou full well that it is We that sent him. We, verily, art potent over
all things. We, verily, bear witness unto everything. We, verily, art powerful over all things
with the permission of God. Know thou God’s decree and send him after [thou hast read] this
Letter. Verily do We write the decree of thy death at thine own hands, and We art aware of
what We accomplish. Follow God’s command, O Majíd, and not thine idle imaginings that mis-
lead thee from the path of God. God’s decree is naught but a manifest announcement. Exalted
is God, thy Lord, the Lord of might, from what they do ascribe unto Him. Peace be unto the
emigrants and praised be God, the Lord of all worlds!
Notes
* I should like to thank the participants of the 42nd ‘Irfán Colloquium, London 19-21 July 2002, for their
comments. Iraj Ayman, Armin Eschraghi, Stephen Lambden, Moojan Momen, and Sholeh Quinn, in par-
ticular have contributed to this paper. Sholeh and Stephen, thank you very much for your part during our
stay in Istanbul.
1) ‘He loved wine, women and reform’ is a historian’s plain summary of Abdulmecid’s personality; Philip
Mansel, Constantinople: City of the World’s Desire (Penguin Books: London 1997), 265.

An Epistle of the Báb to Sultan Abdulmecid
2) On Abdulmecid, see e.g. A.H. Ongunsu, I.slam Ansiklopedisi (I.stanbul 1941-), I:92-94; I.stanbul
Ansiklopedisi (Istanbul 1958 ff.), vol. 1, s.v. ‘Abdulmecid’; Jean Deny, EI2 (Encyclopedia of Islam, Leiden
1960 ff.), 1:74-75; Cevdet Küçük, Türk Diyanet Vakfı I.slam Ansiklopedisi (Istanbul 1988 ff.), 1:259-63.
3) For a vivid description of this, see Mansel, 272.
4) C. Baysun, ‘Mustafa Reﬂid Paﬂa’ in Tanzimat (Istanbul 1940), 734.
5) Ongunsu, 94.
6) Butrus Abu-Manneh, ‘The Islamic Roots of the Gülhane Rescript’, Die Welt des Islams 34 (1994), 173-203.
7) ﬁerif Mardin, Yeni Osmanlı Düﬂüncesinin Do€uﬂu (I.letiﬂim: Istanbul 1996), 123. This book is a transla-
tion of The Genesis of Young Ottoman Thought.
8) Abdurrahman ﬁeref, Tarih Musâhabeleri (Matbaa-i Âmire: I.stanbul 1339/1920-1921), 106.
9) For a critique of their ministries with regard to internal and external affairs and an account of their faults,
see Baﬂbakanlık Osmanlı Arﬂivi (Prime Ministry’s Ottoman Archive/Istanbul; henceforth BOA), Yıldız
Esas Evrakı 32/1 (lengthy letter in French), no date but probably written in the 1870’s after their deaths in
1869 and 1871.
10) Edouard Engelhardt, La Turquie et le Tanzimat (Cotillon: Paris 1882-1884), I:158.
11) Frederick Millingen, La Turquie sous le Règne d’Abdul Aziz 1862 [sic] - 1867 (Libr. Internationale: Paris
1868) 255. For the whole question, see Mardin, Yeni Osmanlı 128-29.
12) Cited in Mansel, Constantinople 265.
13) Cited in Abu-Manneh, ‘Islamic Roots’ 189.
14) Ibid. 190.
15) Davison, Reform in the Ottoman Empire (Princeton University Press 1963), 3-4. He moreover passed a ver-
dict on slavery and abolished it by saying that it is a shameful and barbarous practice to buy and sell fel-
low creatures, and that though they were treated better in the Empire than else where, they were ill-treat-
ed. Still, slavery was not abolished until the end of the Ottoman Empire. The best example was the buying
of slave women for his harem; Mansel, 264.
16) Thiery Zarcone, Mystiques, philosophes et franc-masons en Islam ( Jean Maisonneuve: Paris 1993), 31, 117,
317.
17) Meir Litvak, Shi‘i Scholars of Nineteenth-Century Iraq: The ‘ulama’ of Najaf and Karbala’ (Cambridge
University Press, 1998), 128-34, 140-42.
18) Butrus Abu-Manneh, ‘The Wâlî Nejîb Pâshâ and the Qâdirî Order in Iraq,’ Journal of the History of
Sufism (Simurg Press: Istanbul, 2000), no. 1-2, 115-122. My thanks to Mr. Abu-Manneh for sending me a
copy of his article.
19) Idem. ‘Sultan Abdulhamid II and Shaikh Abulhuda Al-Sayyadi’, Middle East Studies 15, no. 2 (May 1979),
131-53.
20) BOA, I.radeler-Dahiliye, no. 2749; cited in Abu-Manneh, ‘Nejîb Pâshâ’, 115.
21) FO 78/518 Baghdad, no. 4, Farrant to Canning, 22 April 1843; cited in Litvak, 138.
22) Juan Cole/Moojan Momen, ‘Mafia, Mob and Shi‘ism in Iraq: The Rebellion of Ottoman Karbala’, 1824-
1843’, Past and Present 112 (1986), 118-30. For the Ottoman tribal policy, see also Stephen H. Longrigg,
Four Centuries of Modern Iraq (Clarendon: Oxford 1925), 288-92.
23) Ibid. 138-43 (esp. 143).
24) Ibid. 144.
25) Abbas Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal: The Making of the Babi Movement (Cornell University Press:
Ithaca, London 1989), 211.
26) On Najafi, see Litvak, 61-72.
27) Nabil-i Zarandi, The Dawn-Breakers (trans. Shoghi Effendi, Wilmette 1974), 90-91.
28) Litvak, 145.
29) Al-Wardi, Lama˙át Ijtimá‘iyya min Ta’ríkh al-‘Iraq (3 vols. Baghdad 1969), 2:138-39.
30) Litvak, 152.
31) Ibid. 146.
32) Moojan Momen, ‘The Trial of Mullá ‘Alí Bas†ámí: A Combined Sunní-Shí’í Fatwá Against the Báb’ (Iran
20, 1982; British Institute of Persian Studies), 117-18.
33) Amanat, 238.
34) BOA, I.radeler-Dahiliye, no. 5067, 15 Mu˙arram 1261/24 January 1845, sealed: Mehmed Necib; document
no. 1 in the addendum in Moojan Momen (ed.), The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions: Some Contemporary
Western Accounts, 1844-1944 (George Ronald: Oxford 1981), 89-90; henceforth BBR.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
35) BOA, I.radeler-Dahiliye, no. 5067, shorter letter of Necib Paﬂa, same date; cf. Momen, BBR 90, document
no. 2.
36) Mehmed Emin Rauf Paﬂa held the office of Sadrâzam from 30 August 1842 to 28 September 1846 under
Abdulmecid; see Ibrahim A. Gövsa, Türk Meßhurları Ansiklopedisi (Ankara 1946), 316; I.stanbul
Ansiklopedisi, 1:128.
37) Ca. 260 km east of Istanbul.
38) Momen, ‘Trial’ 140; Amanat, 236, n. 189.
39) Momen, ibid.; Denis MacEoin, ‘The Fate of Mullá ‘Alí Bas†amí’ (Bahá’í Studies Bulletin 2, June 1983), 77;
Amanat, ibid.
40) BOA, I.radeler-Dahiliye, no. 5067, no date but it should be later than January 1845 since it stated here that
the reports of Necib Paﬂa were received.
41) Ibid. and document no. 4 in the addendum in Momen, BBR 90, though no mention of Bolu is made here.
Momen, ‘Trial’ (140, n. 36) mentions a letter of the Governor of Bolu but no document in the file in ques-
tion indicates this. Another document (BOA, I.radeler-Hariciye, no. 1340, 14 Rabi‘ al-Awwal 1261/23
March 1845) in which Bolu is mentioned and the present author has come across in a catalogue, could not
be found in the Archive; see also no. 5 in ibid.: ‘Letter from the Sublime Porte to the Sul†án . . . ’
42) Momen, BRR 90; letter of Sami Doktoro€lu, dated 14 July 1978, to Moojan Momen, making references to
documents the present author could not get hold of. My thanks to Mr. Momen for sharing this informa-
tion.
43) This letter in Persian is to be found in Fa∂il Mázandarání, Kitáb-i ¸uhúr al-Óaqq, vol. 3 (Tehran, n.d.
[1323/1944?]), 109; cited in Amanat, 236.
44) Moojan Momen, ‘Mulla ‘Ali Bastami’, draft article for the Encyclopedia of the Bahá’í Faith, online at
www.bahai-library.org/encylopedia/alibast.html (accessed on 3 April 2002).
45) ‘Ahd-i Ha∂rat-i Báb (Oneworld: Oxford 2000).
46) Cited in ‘Abdu’l-Óamíd Ishráq-Khávarí, Mu˙á∂irát (Bahá’í-Verlag: Hofheim 19943), 729-31; see also
Amanat, 238, n. 198.
47) Afnan, 80.
48) Ibid. 157.
49) The Báb lists it in His Kitáb al-Fihrist; see Denis MacEoin, The Sources for Early Babi Doctrine and
History: A Survey (Brill: Leiden et al. 1992), 51.
50) God Passes By (Wilmette 1974), 24.
51) Denis MacEoin, Sources 58.
52) I am grateful for sending me a copy of this Tablet.
53) Since most of the documents in this Archive are still not catalogued, these Tablets or other important doc-
uments related to Bábí-Bahá’í history will possibly be discovered.
54) Cited in MacEoin, Sources 64.
55) Selections from the Writings of the Báb (trans. Habib Taherzadeh, Haifa 1976), 43.
56) See the details below.
57) Qur’an (Q.) 11:86: ‘ . . . ’ (transl. Yusuf Ali); Baqiyyatu’lláh is one of the titles of the Hidden Imam of Shi‘a
Islam; see Moojan Momen, An Introduction to Shi‘i Islam (George Ronald: Oxford 1985), 165.
58) Cf. Q. 5:42.
59) The Báb cites Q. 2:285 and 3:84, though in different wording.
60) Occurs eight times.
61) 2:256-57.
62) 4:51.
63) 4:60.
64) 4:76.
65) I am most grateful to Khazeh Fananapazir for sharing this insight with me.
66) Selections from the Writings of the Báb 45; the ‘straight Path’ refers to Q. 3:50.
67) Ibid. 63.
68) Cf. Q. 4:60.
66) Cf. Q. 10:37, 32:2.
67) Cf. Q. 2:285.
68) Cf. Q 7:201.

An Epistle of the Báb to Sultan Abdulmecid
69) See the section on her in Abbas Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal: The Making of the Babi Movement
(Cornell University Press: Ithaca, NY, 1989).
70) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Memorials of the Faithful (trans. Marzieh Gail; Bahá’í Publishing Trust: Wilmette, Ill, 1971),
182; Zarandi, Dawn-Breakers 272.
71) Kashf al-Ghitá’ is a refutation by Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l Gulpáygání of the Azali work Kitáb-i Nuq†atu’l-Káf,
a so-called early history of the Bábí religion. Mírzá Abu’l-Fa∂l died before he could finish it. His nephew
Sayyid Mahdi did it in his stead, and it was published in Ashqabad. But because Sayyid Mahdi had stepped
beyond the limits of modesty and the book contained some factual errors, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stopped its circu-
lation.
72) Cited in Zarandi, Dawn-Breakers 272.
73) ‘Abdul’-Bahá, A Traveller’s Narrative (trans. E.G. Browne), 310 (Note Q); idem. Memorials 196. The pre-
sent author could not locate documents relating to this episode in the Ottoman Archive.
74) Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By 132. The present author was not able to discover these reports or
Abdulmecid’s edict with regard to ˇáhirih in the Ottoman Archive.
75) Ibid. 122. No references could be found on this in non-Bahá’í sources.
76) Cf. Q. 10:37, 32:2.
77) See footnote 65.
78) Cf. Q. 2:285.
79) Cf. Q. 7:201.
80) Cf. Q. 51:23.
81) Cf. Q. 2:39.
82) See footnote 65.
83) It is not clear what this refers to.
84) Sura 111.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four

The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
Table of Contents
1) Introduction
1.1) Using Aristotle
1.2) Plato and Neoplatonism
2) Physics
2.1) The Co-eternity of Matter
2.2) Motion and Change
2.3) Autopoesis
2.4) God as First Mover
2.5) Emanationism and Divine Personalism
2.6) A Theoretical Interlude: Other Similarities Regarding God
2.7) Causality in Physics
2.8) Consequences of Four-Fold Causality
2.9) The Consequences for Biology and Evolutionism
2.10) The Consequences for the Unity of Science and Religion
2.11) The Consequences for Epistemology
2.12) The Great Chain of Being
2.13) The Structure of the Cosmos
3) The Soul
3.1) Rational Soul as Humankind’s Essential Attribute
3.2) Rational Soul as Immortal
3.3) Soul as Substance
3.4) Mind / Matter—Mind / Body Dualism
3.5) The Body / Soul Connection
4) Epistemology: Mind and Brain
4.1) Reality is Discovered Not Constructed
4.2) Epistemological Realism and the Correspondence Theory of Truth
4.3) The Reality of Attributes
5) The Analysis of Reality
5.1) A Brief Crash Course: Subsistence, Attribute, Essence
5.2) God as Substance
5.3) The Soul as Substance
5.4) Other Uses of Substance
5.5) Hylomorphism: Matter and Form
5.6) Essences
5.7) Essences and Epistemology
5.8) Potential
5.9) Essences and Potentials
5.10) Essence vs. Existence
5.11) Substance-Attribute Ontology

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
6) Logic and Rationality
7) Ethics
7.1) Happiness as Final Goal
7.2) Happiness as Appropriate Actualization
7.3) The Acquisition of Virtues
7.4) The Acquisition of Virtues and Free Will
7.5) Evil
7.6) Agreement on Particular Virtues
8) Statecraft
8.1) The Active State
8.2) The Organic State
8.3) Rational Rights and Freedoms
9) A Difference Regarding God
10) Why the Aristotelian Foundation?
11) Practical Applications
1) Introduction
The purpose of this study is to demonstrate that the Bahá’í Writings re-affirm many of the
philosophical insights first developed by Aristotle. Although a paper of this length can only be
a survey of the evidence, it will at least provide an idea of the enormous wealth of material
available on this subject. The pervasive and far-reaching congruence of Aristotle and the Bahá’í
Writings can be seen in seven main areas: physics; the analysis of reality; epistemology; ethics;
theology; statecraft and anthropology or the study of humankind. The Aristotelian substratum
not only makes it is possible to resolve many apparent paradoxes in the Writings, but also to
explicate the Writings in a way that harmonizes with common human experience and common
sense. On this basis it is possible to develop a systematic and rational apologetics that can be
linked with several developments in modern philosophy.
In order to prevent any initial misunderstandings, it is important to clarify what our thesis
does not mean. Certainly there is no intention of suggesting that the Bahá’í Writings are noth-
ing but a permutation of Aristotle or crudely reducible to his thought. Rather, I would empha-
size that the Bahá’í Writings re-affirm many—though by no means all—of Aristotle’s philo-
sophical ideas and methods of studying reality and adapt and develop them to their own unique
purpose of laying the philosophical foundations for a Bahá’u’lláh’s new world order. This
Aristotelian substratum links the Bahá’í Writings with an intellectual heritage that, in the per-
sons of Maimonides, Avicenna, Averroes, St. Thomas Aquinas and Duns Scotus, not only
unites thinkers from the Jewish, Muslim and Christian traditions but also shows itself suffi-
ciently versatile to accommodate fresh re-formulations in light of new discoveries and intellec-
tual developments especially in relationship to Heidegger’s existentialism and Whitehead’s
process philosophy. Indeed, once we recognize substances as activities, this tradition is also
capable of harmonizing itself with other, non-western process philosophies such as Buddhism’s
doctrine of dependent arising. In other words, the Aristotelian substratum provides a highly
flexible, far-reaching yet orderly way for us to develop our understanding of the Bahá’í Writings
and see their connection to a variety of other traditions. I believe that the Writings re-affirm
much of Aristotle’s philosophy precisely because it allows enormous flexibility and capacity for
growth in new directions.

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
1.1) Using Aristotle
At this point it would be natural to ask whether the Bahá’í Writings do not simply use
Aristotle as a vehicle for expressing certain ideas in a form more easily comprehensible to mod-
ern and specifically western audiences. Does this use really imply any systematic intellectual
continuity with Aristotle’s philosophy? I believe so, for reasons the body of my paper shall
make clear. For now, it suffices to make three points. First, if the use of this philosophy was
an attempted adaptation to modern and especially western audiences, it was a remarkably infe-
licitous and short-sighted thing to do. Even in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s time, in the mind of the western
public and certainly in the minds of most scientists, Aristotelian philosophy and analysis had
been discredited scientifically since Galileo and philosophically since Descartes. If cultural
adaptation is the reason for the choice of terminology, it is hard to see how any worthwhile
advantage could be derived therefrom. This is even more true now than in Bahá’u’lláh’s and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘s time. Moreover, how such a putative cultural adaptation to the west could help
teach the Cause among the non-western cultures that form the majority of humankind, is also
hard to fathom. A far more likely reason, aside from the fact that Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
lived in an intellectual culture heavily influenced by Aristotelian thought, is that Aristotle’s
analysis of reality is common sense and accessible in principle by anyone. A curious mind and
probing thoughtfulness but no specialized equipment and no specialized experimental experi-
ences are needed to verify the value of Aristotle’s analysis of reality. We shall touch on this issue
again later.
This brings us to our second reason for rejecting the notion that the Aristotelian terminolo-
gy was used only for illustrative or other pedagogical purposes. Not only do the Writings make
pervasive and continuous use of this terminology, they usually use it precisely as Aristotle did.
The terminology and the associated concepts are not merely employed for illustrative purpos-
es but to develop, expound and prove particular conclusions, as for example, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
employment of Aristotle’s Prime Mover argument. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá clearly expects the logical
processes on which He builds His argument to be accepted—and inherent in those processes
are the concepts and premises derived from Aristotle’s analysis of reality. If we do not accept
them, neither can we accept the argument based on them. However, to reject the argument is
to reject ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s teaching—and that is obviously not what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá expects us to do.
He clearly presents these arguments in the belief that they reflect reality and that the argu-
ments are, therefore, true, or, at least reflect one reasonable view of reality.
With this consideration in mind, we can see a third reason to reject the argument of cultur-
al adaptation and pedagogical uses: one cannot simply make use of, let alone make extensive
use of a philosophical terminology without committing oneself to a considerable degree to the
ideas embodied in these terms especially if one employs those terms in their original way. The
pervasive use of any particular terminology lays a foundation which has logical implications,
and sets certain limitations, on the nature of what one can build on it. For example, as we shall
see, the Writings are clearly committed to Aristotle’s theory of causation and this commitment
not only rules out acceptance of absolute chaos but also implies a particular theory of ‘chance’
and the fortuitous. This, in turn, affects Bahá’í views on evolution not to mention autopoesis
and self-organization.
A related question might be whether or not we are possibly being misled by a series of mere
coincidences which in turn leads one to question to what degree these coincidences are mean-
ingful. I think the best way to answer is to point out that the congruencies between Aristotle
and the Bahá’í Writings are not merely numerous and superficial, but rather, are numerous and
deep, that is, related to a set of fundamental issues in physics, metaphysics, epistemology,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
anthropology, ethics and statecraft. In other words, these congruencies reflect essential agree-
ments in underlying premises and attitudes. They show that Aristotle, of whom Bahá’u’lláh and
‘Abdu’l-Bahá thought very highly,1 was at least beginning to think along the same lines and
from the same and/or similar premises and axioms. Conversely, one might say that Bahá’u’lláh
and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá regarded Aristotle with enough esteem to adopt his philosophy as the best
philosophical vehicle for expressing the new revelation. Indeed, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá lavished special
praise on Plato and Aristotle for exploring natural and supernatural phenomena, and then adds,
Today the philosophy and logic of Aristotle are known throughout the world. Because they
were interested in both natural and divine philosophy, furthering the development of the
physical world of mankind as well as the intellectual, they rendered praiseworthy service
to humanity.2
Some might argue that Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had no choice given that the Bahá’í Faith
arose in a culture whose philosophical tradition was heavily imbued with Aristotelian influ-
ence. However, this argument fails for two reasons. First, nothing in the cultural environment
could force anyone, let alone a Manifestation of God, to make such extensive, deep and far-
reaching use of the tradition. He could have used it strictly for illustrative purposes but the
fact remains, He did not, nor did His official interpreter. The inescapable conclusion is that the
Manifestation found the Aristotelian philosophy especially useful in leading us to the truth on
a wide variety of important issues. This suggests that Aristotle’s philosophy and its associated
modes of thought are especially apt for discovering truth and understanding the Writings.
Second, for theological reasons, it is doubtful that any human factors, even cultural milieu,
could constrain the Divine to act in a certain way. God could, for example, have anointed the
Manifestation in places other than Persia, but instead, chose a cultural locale heavily imbued
with Aristotelianism.
1.2) Plato and Neo-Platonism
Finally in this introduction, I need to say that I certainly do not mean to deny or diminish
the obvious neo-Platonic aspects of the Bahá’í Writing though I do wish to point out that neo-
Platonism itself is heavily influenced by Aristotle. Even such an author as Keven Brown, whose
article in Evolution and Bahá’í Belief inclines to see heavy Platonic influences, cannot help but
wage his pro-Platonic arguments with concepts, terms and arguments originating in Aristotle.
Thus, the presence of neo-Platonic elements in the Bahá’í Writings tends to support rather than
deny my assertions about the Aristotelian substratum insofar as neo-Platonism itself resulted
at least in part from Aristotle’s effect on Platonism. The neo-Platonists accepted such key
Aristotelian concepts as essence, substance, actuality and actualization, potential, the tran-
scendentals and the Unmoved Mover.
One of the reasons Platonism needed to be recast was precisely because thinkers such as
Plotinus took Aristotle’s critique of Plato’s independent world of ideas as decisive and final.
They tried to answer Aristotle’s critique while maintaining the existence of Ideas or exemplars
by placing them in the First Mind or First Will or what Bahá’u’lláh calls “the Kingdom of
Names.”3 Moreover, we must recall that emanationism itself does not necessarily make one a
neo-Platonist as can be seen in the case of St Thomas, an Aristotelian who also espouses ema-
nationism.4 Indeed, the concept of emanationism, is already logically implicit in Aristotle’s
doctrine of God as the Divine thinking Itself. In this situation, we have God the thinker and
God, the object of God’s thought; the object is obviously dependent upon the thinking sub-
ject, and this relationship of dependence is precisely the relationship between God and His
emanations. Without question, Plotinus and the neo-Platonists developed this idea to a far

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
greater extent than Aristotle ever did, but it is important to recognize that even this neo-
Platonic doctrine has some Aristotelian roots.
The issue concerning Plato’s forms or Ideas is, of course, vital in this debate. The bottom line
is that the Bahá’í Writings are clearly Platonic insofar as they present a variation of Plato’s
forms or Ideas, called the “Names of God”5 as residing as independent substances in a separate
realm called “the Kingdom of Names”6 which is itself identified with the First Mind.6 For
Aristotle, the forms, essences, ideas or universals do not reside as independent substances in a
separate realm but rather are found in particular things. In short, Aristotle and the Bahá’í
Writings differ on the issue of where and how the original essences or forms reside, an issue
on which the Writings take a decidedly Platonic turn. However, it must be noted that Aristotle’s
view is not entirely excluded, since the Writings tell us that the Names of God are reflected in
every created thing, and so, in that sense, formally or virtually present in every particular.7
This means that while the Writings take a Platonic view about the original essences, exemplars
or Names, they do not entirely abandon the Aristotelian view that these are present in all cre-
ated things. From this perspective, the Writings may be seen as synthesizing Plato’s and
Aristotle’s views, a project of great importance to the neo-Platonists.
2) Physics
I shall begin my survey of the Aristotelian substratum of the Bahá’í Writings with an exam-
ination of physics. To put it plainly, the foundations of ‘Bahá’í physics’ are Aristotelian, by
which I mean that there is a pervasive and systematic overlap between Aristotle’s book Physics
and the Bahá’í Teachings. Although this may at first sight seem, at best, an academic curiosi-
ty, it does in fact have profound consequences for any future Bahá’í metaphysic and epistemol-
ogy and has a serious impact on our understanding of the unity of science and religion. It also
requires a logical commitment to some metaphysical and epistemological views and the rejec-
tion of others.
2.1) The Co-eternity of Matter or Creation
One of the key issues on which Aristotle and the Bahá’í Writings also agree is the eternity
of the world or creation. According to Aristotle, prime matter, which is the capacity or poten-
tial to receive form, has always existed along with the Unmoved Mover since a mover without
something to move or affect is logically impossible.8 In other words, Aristotle’s matter is co-
eternal although logically dependent on the Unmoved Mover. There was no moment at which
matter was suddenly created after a period of non-existence, because the nature of the
Unmoved Mover required its existence. This, of course, is precisely the Bahá’í doctrine that
creation has always existed because “a creator without a creature is impossible.”9 In other
words, both Aristotle and the Writings hold that creation is co-eternal or co-existent insofar
as it has existed with God since the “beginning that hath no beginning.”10
Unfortunately, this is misunderstood in Evolution and Bahá’í Belief. Keven Brown claims
that Aristotle recognized “no transcendent cause for the existence of things, saw the universe
as self-existent”11, a belief that would clearly separate Aristotle from the Writings. However,
Brown ignores the fact that the nature of God as Unmoved Mover, is logically prior to its con-
sequence, the existence of matter, so that in a logical sense, God is, indeed, the cause, the nec-
essary prior condition, of matter.
As already noted, the Unmoved Mover requires something to move. Furthermore, if by “self-
existent”12 Brown means ‘self-created,’
then he is mistaken about Aristotle’s doctrine.
According to Aristotle, matter did not create itself; instead, matter has always existed though

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
dependent upon the eternal Unmoved Mover; that is, Aristotle’s matter is co-eternal which is
exactly what the Writings teach.
If by there being “no transcendent cause for the existence of things”13 Brown means that
matter is independent of God, he is in error from yet another perspective because according to
Aristotle, matter also depends on God for order and form. Aristotle’s God, as we recall, is the
universal “the object of desire,”14 that is the final cause for which all things strive. However,
by being the final cause of all motion, the Divine is also the efficient cause of all motion, that
which actually sets things into movement; moreover, by being the final cause, the Divine is
also the formal cause.15 Nor can matter form itself according to Aristotle since it is a funda-
mental principle of his system that actuality precedes potentiality,16 which is to say that all
potentials must be actualized by an actuality or, in this case, God, who is pure actuality. We
must, therefore, reject Brown’s effort to erect the co-eternity of matter or creation as a barri-
er between Aristotle and the Writings.
Indeed, a correct understanding of Aristotle’s doctrine not only allows a resolution to the
apparent self-contradiction between a creation that is co-eternal with God and the doctrine of
a specific moment of creation, but also allows a reconciliation or synthesis with Brown’s views
about “God’s actional Will”17and the “first creation”18 in the world of possibilities. The co-eter-
nity of creation refers to the co-eternity of matter, that is, the capacity or potential to mani-
fest form whereas the specific moment of creation refers to the actualization and manifesta-
tion of particular forms. Thus, insofar as the potentials are co-eternal with God, creation is
also timeless, whereas the actualization of form is something that occurs at some particular
point in time. As we can see, this beginning or actualization of form, has, from the perspec-
tive of potentials, no beginning itself: the potentials have always existed. That is why
Bahá’u’lláh is able to refer to the “beginning that hath no beginning.”19 Using Aristotle’s defi-
nition of matter as the potential to receive and manifest form, it becomes obvious that matter
in this sense may be identified with “God’s actional Will as part of His ‘First Creation’” of the
universe in potentia.”20 With this in mind, an Aristotelian reading of the Writings can fully
agree with Brown when he says “This Will, which corresponds to the possible, manifests the
realities of things as a sea manifests itself in the forms of the waves.”21 Moreover, this actual-
ization is voluntary insofar as the Divine must select which potentials to actualize and which
to leave in their potential state at least for the present.
2.2) Motion and Change
Motion or change is the next issue we must explore. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes:
There are different degrees of motion. There is motion of transit, that is from place to
place . . . Another kind is the motion of inherent growth . . . The third kind is the motion
of condition—the sick man passes from the stage of sickness to the state of health. The
fourth kind is that of spirit. For instance, the child while in the mother’s womb has all the
potential qualities of the spirit, but those qualities begin to unfold little by little, as the
child is born and grows and develops and finally manifests all the attributes and qualities
of the spirit. The fifth is the motion of the intellect, whereby the ignorant become wise .
. . the carnally minded spiritual . . . the sixth is that of the eternal essence. That is to say,
all phenomena either step from the arena of non-existence into the court of objectivity, or
from existence to non-existence. Just as being in motion is the test of life, so being sta-
tionary is the test of death . . .22
This passage reveals its Aristotelian nature in various ways. First of all, we see the nature of
change as being from one thing to its contrary or contradictory, that is, from one place or con-

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
dition to its opposite.23 Next, we see that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has explicitly adopted Aristotle’s defin-
ition of change as the motion from potentiality to actuality,24 which is to say that in motion
or change qualities and attributes that were potential but not overtly present or active become
actualized, that is, overtly present and active.25 In other words, it is evident that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
has adopted Aristotle’s concept of motion as self-actualization in one or more of three areas:
quantity, quality and place. (On this point Brown’s belief that Aristotle defines change as “the
exchange of one accidental quality for another”26 is a serious error that leads to a distorted
view of Aristotle’s system as being fundamentally static.) Like Aristotle, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá identi-
fies growth as a kind of motion, being a positive change in quantity and quality which is more
complex than what Aristotle calls “locomotion”27 or “transit . . . from place to place.”28 Change
of quality is evident in the change from sickness to health, from a baby’s unactualized poten-
tials to their actualization and in the change from ignorance to wisdom and carnality to spir-
ituality. Aristotle’s view that change includes coming into existence29 is evident in ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s sixth form of motion, the movement from non-existence to existence.
It should be noted that the qualitative changes mentioned here are what Aristotle sometimes
calls “alteration”30 in order to distinguish them from “coming to be and passing away”31 name-
ly, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s sixth sense of change or motion. This is a noteworthy development because in
effect, it shows ‘Abdu’l-Bahá expressing a preference for one Aristotelian term over another. For
Bahá’ís this raises an interesting and important question: is there any significance in this? I
believe there is because this question relates to the Bahá’í Teaching that existence and non-exis-
tence are relative.32 In other words there are degrees of existence just as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says there
are “degrees of motion.”33
Moreover, this question relates to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s categorical statement that nothing comes
from absolute nothingness: “absolute nonexistence cannot become existence. If the beings were
absolutely nonexistent, they would not have come into being34 and “therefore, nonexistence is
only relative and absolute nonexistence inconceivable.”35 Logic forces us to admit that if this
is the case, then all existing things, including us, have had a potential pre-existence, (albeit it
a phenomenal pre-existence caused by God, the Prime Mover)36 before they stepped “into the
court of objectivity.”37 In short, we all pre-existed potentially before we attained material exis-
tence, a fact confirmed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá when He says
Before we were born into this world did we not pray, ‘O God! Give me a mother; give me
two fountains of bright milk; purify the air for my breathing; grant me rest and comfort;
prepare food for my sustenance and living”? Did we not pray potentially for these needed
blessings before we were created?”38
In Some Answered Questions, He tells us that “all creatures emanate from God—that is to say,
it is by God that all things are realized,”39 in other words, the potentials of things become real,
are real-ized or brought into material existence by God’s action. This explains why ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
considered the movement from existence into existence as a degree of change, even though
Aristotle thought of specifically differentiated types of change: for Bahá’ís, “generation,”40
that is, the movement from non-existence to existence is simply the change from potentiality
to actuality, which is Aristotle’s original and fundamental definition of movement.
“Alternation”41 is a change from a something to something else, and in the Bahá’í view, the
movement from non-existence, that is, potential existence, to existence is simply the actual-
ization of an already existing potentiality.
This choice by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is of extreme importance because it provides another perspec-
tive from which the Bahá’í Writings resolve the apparent contradiction between the eternity of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
the universe and the creation of the world. How can the universe be an eternal emanation from
an eternal Creator and the world be created at a point in time by a Prime Mover? Aristotle’s
notion of potential existence allows us to resolve this seeming self-contradiction by defining
the ‘creation’ of a particular world or being in an Aristotelian manner as the actualization of
pre-existing potentials from an infinite store of such potentials. This change requires a mover
and, according to Aristotle—as well as the Bahá’í Writings and prayers—ultimately there is only
one such mover, namely the Divine. Aristotle’s concepts of ‘potential’ and ‘actual’ also provide
a philosophical reason why God is the “Sustainer”: He sustains the universe by being the Prime
Mover in a causal chain that leads to the continuous actualization of potentialities in all the
kingdoms of material existence.
2.3) Autopoesis
The belief in potentials and a fundamental order in the universe affects Bahá’í apologetics
insofar as it puts constraints on the concept of autopoesis or self-organizing. From the
Bahá’í/Aristotelian point of view, what is called ‘self-organizing’ is simply the actualization of
possibilities for order already present in matter itself—not to mention the entire experimental
situation—both of which are already highly organized. In what appears to be the ‘self-organiz-
ing’ we are not witnessing the emergence of order from absolute chaos but rather the emergence
of one kind of order from another under special circumstances. This means that from a
Bahá’í/Aristotelian point of view, we cannot logically accept the argument that the existence
of ‘self-organization’ as a so-called proof that God is unnecessary to explain order in the cos-
mos.
2.4) God as the First Mover
At this point we have arrived at the question of the origin of motion and this, of course, is
one of the various ways by which we can approach the subject of the Prime Mover. Here again
we see how Aristotle and the Bahá’í Writings overlap significantly. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes:
Know that nothing which exists remains in a state of repose—that is to say, all things are
in motion. Everything is either growing or declining; all things are either coming from
non-existence into being, or going from existence into non-existence. . . This state of
motion is said to be essential—that is natural; it cannot be separated from beings because
it is their essential requirement . . .42
Similarly, Aristotle tells us that motion is an inextricable aspect of nature: “Nature has been
defined as a ‘principle of motion and change.’”43 In other words nature and motion are nec-
essarily correlated, and whatever is in nature, whatever exists, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, is in
motion. The fact of motion in nature, or in creation, leads inevitably to the concept of a Prime
Mover because whatever is moved is moved by something.44 Now things either move them-
selves or they are moved by another and since matter cannot bring itself into existence or set
itself into motion (in effect, the same thing given the correlation between nature and move-
ment) a first mover is required to avoid an infinite regress of movers. Aristotle lays out his
arguments on this issue in Book VIII of the Physics. The various arguments and deviations
require no explication here but the conclusions he draws are important to our subject: (a) there
must be a prime mover to first impart motion45; (b) this prime mover must be unmoved46; (c)
it must be apart from nature47; (d) it must be one and eternal.48 Every Bahá’í will recognize
these characteristics as some of the descriptors applied to God in the Writings: “the One, the
Single”49 the “Prime Mover,”50 the “Self-Subsisting.”51 The notion that the Prime Mover must
be apart from nature is seen in Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that “the one true God is in Himself
exalted beyond and above proximity and remoteness.52 Aristotle, who thought of God as pure

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
form thinking on Itself (and knowing creation through knowing Itself) would certainly agree.
Albeit very succinctly, Bahá’u’lláh Himself makes use of the unmoved mover argument when
He says, “All that is created, however, is preceded by a cause. This fact, in itself, establisheth,
beyond the shadow of a doubt, the unity of the Creator.”53 Here Bahá’u’lláh simply states the
conclusion of the argument first advanced by Aristotle, namely that all motion and contingent
beings have a cause; this requires the existence of an uncreated First Cause to bring them into
being and set them into motion. Indeed, it proves not just the existence of God but His unity,
because oneness is the origin of multiplicity. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá uses the same argument:
. . . we observe that motion without motive force and an effect without a cause are both
impossible: that every being hath come to exists under numerous influences and continu-
ally undergoeth reaction. These influences, too, are formed under the action of still other
influences . . . Such a process of causation goes, and to maintain that this process goes on
indefinitely is manifestly absurd. Thus such a chain of causation must of necessity lead
eventually to Him Who is the Ever-Living, the All Powerful, Who is Self-Dependent and
the Ultimate Cause.”54
This is, in effect, nothing less than a paraphrase of Aristotle’s argument using causality and
the impossibility of an infinite regress of causes to prove the existence of God. We can also
recognize Aristotle’s argument in the following quote from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
Throughout the world of existence it is the same; the smallest created thing proves that
there is a creator. For instance, this piece of bread proves that it has a maker.55
In this case, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is simply applying the same craftsman argument used by Aristotle
to the things of this world. Having no necessary existence, they are all contingent. The sheer
fact of their actual existence means that there must be a non-contingent entity whose existence
is necessary and which is capable of bringing the mere potentials into actuality or existence.
The denial of such an entity results in an infinite regress which, as Aristotle and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
point out, is logically absurd: there cannot be an indefinite number of definite things. Here,
too, the Bahá’í Writings and Aristotle are of one mind.
2.5) Emanationism and Divine Personalism
It might be objected that whatever the similarities between Bahá’í and Aristotelian concepts
of God, two great differences irremediably separate them: emanationism and divine personal-
ism. Emanationism, the belief, as St. Thomas Aquinas puts it, that God originates the universe
by divine radiation and not by divine mutation, is generally associated not with Aristotle but
with Plotinus, Proclus and other neo-Platonists. Oddly enough, there are no specific references
to emanation in Plato’s works to support the term neo-Platonism, invented by Thomas Taylor
in the early 19th century; indeed, if anything, Plato’s Timaeus with its world-making demiurge
suggests a creationist doctrine. That aside, the fact remains that the concept of emanation can
be logically derived directly from Aristotle’s notion of God as the Unmoved Mover thinking
upon Itself. As already noted, this concept sets up the archetypal emanationist situation: a pro-
ducer and a product, a thinker and a thought. It is evident that in the order of logic, the
thinker is prior to the thought. There can be no thought without a thinker, and thought obvi-
ously lacks the power to think the thinker whereas the opposite is not true. Consequently, the
thought is related to but distinct from the thinker and, because of its logically derivative
nature, belongs to an ontologically secondary level of being. This order—which could also be
repeated with the concept of Will—is precisely what emanationism asserts. We even see
Bahá’u’lláh setting up this very situation: “Consider the relation between the craftsman and his
handiwork, between the painter and his painting. Can it ever be maintained that the work their

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
hands have produced is the same as themselves?”56 The only reasonable conclusion left us is that
emanationism is logically derivable from Aristotle’s concept of God and need be neither
Platonic in origin nor in nature.
As to the second objection, there is no doubt that Aristotle’s concept of God is impersonal,
but even this must be understood in a carefully hedged way because there is nothing that log-
ically requires Aristotle’s God to be absolutely impersonal. When we ask if the Unmoved Mover
thinking upon Itself can think about us, the answer that immediately suggests itself (and was,
in fact adopted) is that the Divine can do so insofar as in contemplating Itself it contemplates
supreme perfection which, of course, includes creation, the universe, and us. In other words,
God does not perceive us as a subject perceives an object, but rather contemplates us through
thoughts focussed on the Divine perfections—which includes the perfection of actualization of
potentials. This makes it virtually self-evident that whereas the Unmoved Mover described by
Aristotle is impersonal, there is no logical objection to developing his ideas in a personalist
direction. Aristotle’s God can be harmonized with the God of the Bahá’í Writings who takes
sufficient personal interest in creation to send Manifestations.
2.6) A Theological Interlude: Other Similarities Regarding God
Because Aristotle and the Writings do not recognize a hard and fast distinction between
physics and metaphysics and/or theology—a fact of enormous significance in our consideration
of the unity of science and religion—the Divine is an inevitable part of any discussion of the
universe’s physical constitution. Not only do both see God as the “Prime Mover”57 but they
also regard God as utterly self-sufficient, meaning, philosophically speaking, as not preceded
by a cause58 or, as the Bahá’í Writings say, “Self-Subsisting”59 and, therefore, independent of all
other existing things. According to Aristotle, God is also the First Mover Who is Himself
unmoved or unchanged.60 This is because the Unmoved Mover is pure actuality61, that is, has
no potentials, and is, therefore, beyond all change62 because there are no potentials left to
actualize. One might also express this by saying that God has no privations, no lacks or defi-
ciencies requiring fulfillment. Moreover, the Divine is one and eternal63 that is, undivided and
beyond time, characteristics which also suggest that God is not in space among other phe-
nomenal beings. God is not limited by the normal attributes of all phenomenal, material
beings.64 God is also alive65 conscious and thinking.
Because God is ‘beyond’ the phenomenal realm, both the Bahá’í Writings and Aristotle agree
that God is essentially unknowable and do so for similar reasons. According to Aristotle, God,
unlike all phenomena which are composed of matter and form, is one because the Divine has
no matter and is pure form. The Divine is, moreover, pure existence, that is, a non-contingent
entity66 whose nature is to exist; It is also pure thought thinking only on Itself. As time-and-
space bound, composite beings, we can understand these concepts verbally, but cannot com-
prehend or understand what it is or means to enjoy this sort of being. Similarly, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
says,
It is evident that the human understanding is a quality of the existence of man, and that
man is a sign of God: how can the quality of the sign surround the creator of the sign?—
that is to say, how can the understanding, which is a quality of the existence of man, com-
prehend God? Therefore, the Reality of the Divinity is hidden from all comprehension, and
concealed from the minds of all men. It is absolutely impossible to ascend to that plane.67
By the “Reality of Divinity”68 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá means the essence of divinity which is beyond
human comprehension. The attributes of divinity can, of course, be known or comprehended,
but not the essence of Divinity.69 As pure form thinking Itself,70 Aristotle’s God also enjoys a

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
form of being whose nature can be deduced by Its attributes and actions in the phenomenal
realm but cannot be known immediately. This is because, according to Aristotle, true knowl-
edge is knowledge of causes71 and not mere description. That, however, is the level at which we
must remain with the Unmoved Mover.
The similarities between Bahá’u’lláh’s and Aristotle’s concept of God do not end here. In
both views, God is seen to set things into motion not by a direct physical impetus but rather
by attracting them to Himself, by being the “object of desire.”72 In the Bahá’í Writings this
idea is expressed in three ways. First, it is implicit in the prime mover argument used by
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: God Who is beyond change and motion is, nonetheless, the
source of all movement, a feat that can only be accomplished by being—to borrow a term from
fractal geometry—the Great Attractor towards which all beings strive, though only humans may
do so consciously. Second, the notion of God as the Great Attractor is also seen in the belief
that all beings seek their own perfection, that is, their final cause which can ultimately be
found only in God Who is the final goal of their endeavours. They strive to reflect God’s boun-
ty more adequately and, thereby, perfect their own existences. Their varying capacities consti-
tute the diversity and very order of the universe from the mineral up through the angelic.
Third, the concept of attraction to God is implicit in the Teaching that all things in their own
degree reflect the perfections of God, that is, are essentially identified by their capacity to
manifest, reflect or turn themselves to the Divine. Such reflection is also a return to the
Divine and Its bounties. Humankind is no exception to this; as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “God has cre-
ated all and all return to God.”73 Indeed, the role of the Manifestation is to both renew and
expand the scope of our conscious and willful effort to return to the Divine. One need hard-
ly explain that at the simplest, material level, such a return can only mean physical motion for
which reason God is the Prime Mover.
If God sets and keeps all phenomenal beings in motion, if God is the goal which all phe-
nomenal beings strive to emulate as best they can, then it follows that the Divine is their final
cause, their purpose, their reason for being. This idea, is, of course, reflected in the Bahá’í
Noonday Prayer which states that we were created “to know Thee and to worship Thee.”
However, in being the final cause of creation, the Great Attractor, God sets it and keeps it in
motion, thereby also becoming its ultimate efficient cause. The ordinary events of daily life of
course have immediate or proximate efficient causes. Up to this point, Aristotle and the Bahá’í
Writings agree. However, the Bahá’í Writings do not stop here, but rather develop Aristotle’s
theory of causation one step further: according to them, God is also the ultimate formal cause
because creatures are formed, given an essence, by their varying capacities to reflect God’s
Names and attributes.74 Difference in this capacity create essential distinctions among crea-
tures, a fact most readily seen in humankind’s exalted position.75
2.7) Causality in Physics
Another far-reaching agreement between the Bahá’í Writings and Aristotle concerns the all
important subject of causality. In Some Answered Questions, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states that all phe-
nomena require four causes
the existence of everything depends upon four causes—the efficient cause, the matter, the
form and the final cause. For example, this chair has a maker who is a carpenter, a sub-
stance which is wood, a form which is that of a chair, and a purpose which is that it is to
be used as a seat. Therefore, this chair is essentially phenomenal, for it is preceded by a
cause, and its existence depends upon causes. This is called “the essential and really phe-
nomenal.76

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement simply elaborates Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that “All that is created,
however, is preceded by a cause.”77 The views promulgated here, and most specifically ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s, are exactly those first propounded in Aristotle in his Physics78 and the Metaphysics.79
Here, too, Aristotle discusses the four causes, using precisely the terminology confirmed later
by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: the material cause, or matter; the formal cause, or form; the efficient cause, or
mover or maker; and the final cause, or purpose. Not only does ‘Abdu’l-Bahá employ Aristotle’s
terms, He uses them exactly as Aristotle used them in order to analyze causality and, further-
more, he uses them to draw a general conclusion about the nature of reality. As we have already
seen previously, both Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá use the Prime, Unmoved Mover argument
first promulgated by Aristotle.
In examining ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement, we notice, first of all, the categorical nature of his
statement: “the existence of everything depends on four causes.”80 He is not using Aristotle’s
theory to illustrate an answer he has already given in other words or to make something more
comprehensible to westerners: he is making an unequivocal statement about the nature of phe-
nomenal, that is, emanated reality. Indeed, the immediate context of this statement is a meta-
physical question about the kinds of preexistence and phenomena to which question he provides
the answer we have quoted. From this alone it is clear that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is committed to the
answer He provides as a physical and metaphysical truth that we must understand, accept and
work with. At this point we might also recall Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that “[a]ll that is created,
however, is preceded by a cause”81 and His reference to God as “the King of the entire creation
and its Prime Mover.”82 The description of God as the “Prime Mover”83 of reality is itself a
term that harmonizes with Aristotle’s Physics and Metaphysics.
2.8) Consequences of Four-Fold Causality
The far-reaching significance of this agreement regarding causality cannot be stressed too
much because Bahá’u’lláh’s commitment to causality per se, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s commitment to
Aristotle’s theory of causality lays a particular kind of foundation for the further development
of any Bahá’í cosmology, metaphysic and epistemology. This, in turn, will impact on Bahá’í
views on the unity of science and religion, indeed, on the very definitions of these terms.
Let us briefly examine why. As already noted above, the belief in causality inescapably com-
mits the Bahá’í Faith to a causal understanding of the physical universe and all physical events.
Moreover, the categorical nature of the statements made both by Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
make it irrelevant whether or not we are discussing macro or quantum events. This, in turn,
limits the physical theories and interpretations of quantum physics which can be logically har-
monized with the Bahá’í Writings. A far-reaching example of this impact would be our under-
standing of the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle. The Bahá’í Writings and their explicit com-
mitment to causality requires us to understand this principle epistemologically, as a statement
about the limitations of human knowledge rather than metaphysically as a statement about the
actually indeterminate nature of the particles themselves. Moreover, it is important to under-
stand that the use of statistics in sub-nuclear science does not logically force us to deny causal-
ity. Employing statistical methods merely concedes that we humans cannot comprehend and
calculate all of the causes at work, and, therefore make do with knowing degrees of likelihood.
There is nothing in this method that requires us to admit that any of the events are uncaused
in and of themselves; we need only admit that we cannot know all the relevant causal actions.
Consequently, the Bahá’í Writings incline us to one of the variously available causal interpre-
tations of quantum theory, such as David Bohm’s.
The foregoing discussion makes it clear that the Bahá’í Teaching about the unity of science

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
and religion cannot simply mean uncritical agreement between the Writings and any and all
scientific theories or interpretations even though accepted at a particular point in time. While
the ultimate goal is agreement, that is, harmony between science and religion, it is apparent
that the Writings provide us with a basis—an Aristotelian basis—from which to carry out a crit-
ical examination of scientific theories. Such a view is strongly supported by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s epis-
temology which accepts material, sense knowledge as necessary, but denies that such knowledge
is sufficient to attain a complete and true understanding of the universe.
Furthermore, commitment to the Aristotelian theory of causes, commits the Bahá’í Writings
to a teleological view of the natural, phenomenal world, a viewpoint in which all entities, and,
most obviously, all living entities84 exist for a purpose which dictates the form and even the
materials used. Nature never acts in vain Aristotle tells us, and, elsewhere he says, “God and
nature make nothing at random,”85 and still elsewhere that “Nature never makes anything
without a purpose and never leaves out what is necessary.”86 This requires us to conclude that
in nature the final cause, the formal cause and, in at least some cases, the material cause are
one; stated otherwise, the study of the formal, and sometimes, the material causes, is also
implicitly knowledge of the final cause. Now, there is no question that for Aristotle, “nature
works like the artist or craftsman”87, a concept that is often reiterated throughout his work
with a variety of metaphors: the sculptor, the builder, the painter, and, frequently, the doctor
who, along with the gardener, is often found in the Bahá’í Writings. The “craft analogy”88
between natural and craft production is seen in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s reference to the universe as a
“Great Workshop”89 and as “one laboratory of might under one natural system”90 which, with-
out humankind” would lack its “consummation”91 and has no purpose, “no result, no fruit.”92
This argument implicitly sees the entire universe as a garden, that is, a craft work requiring
certain pieces to be complete and to attain its purpose. At this point we need only recall that
craft work is undertaken for a purpose to see that the “craft analogy”93 operates pervasively
throughout the Bahá’í Writings.
This fact is of enormous importance in our understanding of science and religion because the
“craft analogy”94 of creation means that a science which purports to provide complete under-
standing of the universe must include final causes as part of its explanation. If we limit our-
selves, as current science does, at least theoretically, to material and efficient causes, our expla-
nations will be incomplete and, to that extent, mistaken. True scientific explanations must
include both immediate and ultimate final causes, that is, must admit that full explanations of
nature inevitably take us beyond the material realm. To one extent or another, they must take
the supernatural into account, a point so important to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that He specifically prais-
es Aristotle along with Socrates and Plato, for doing so:
The philosophers of Greece—such as Aristotle, Socrates, Plato and others—were devoted to
the investigation of both natural and spiritual phenomena. In their schools of teaching
they discoursed upon the world of nature as well as the supernatural world. Today the phi-
losophy and logic of Aristotle are known throughout the world. Because they were inter-
ested in both natural and divine philosophy, furthering the development of the physical
world of mankind as well as the intellectual, they rendered praiseworthy service to human-
ity.95
2.9) The Consequences for Biology and Evolution
Applied to biology, the concept of final causes leads readily to the subject of entelechy, the
notion that all things and most especially, all living things, contain particular potentials which
they strive to manifest or actualize in order to be ‘the best they can be.’ To one extent or

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
another—and there is room to make a case that this includes material objects albeit it to a min-
imal extent—all things strive to manifest their potential for self-perfection. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
says, “All beings, whether large or small, were created perfect and complete from the first, but
their perfections appear in them by degrees.”96 This not only accords with Aristotle’s view
about the nature and growth of all things but leads readily to a specifically Aristotelian and
Bahá’í view of development and evolution. Both accept what some call ‘micro-evolution,’
meaning that there can be some change and variation within a species but not a transforma-
tion of one species into a completely different one. For Aristotle and the Writings, while
“species and genera are eternal”97; species evolve over time by actualizing, manifesting or dis-
playing their store of potentials in the physical world without changing into different species.
To understand why the Writings take this position, let us examine the issue from the point
of view of Aristotle’s potentials. It becomes immediately apparent that the potentials required
to be a member of a particular kind (or species or genera) cannot change: certain potentials are
eternally necessary to be a spoon as opposed to a knife, a house cat as distinct from a walrus.
This is not surprising because a spoon and a walrus have different essences and one can never
become the other. No one would dispute this. Thus, if we understand ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Aristotle
to be discussing the essences of things or species, there is no real conflict with current scien-
tific beliefs in regarding the stability of essences or species. No one would claim that a million
years ago the essence of a spoon was different than it is today. The fact that essences don’t
change is true whether we are discussing non-living spoons or developing entities in which the
various attributes appear over a period of time.
Thus the embryo of man in the womb of the mother gradually grows and develops, and
appears in different forms and conditions, until in the degree of perfect beauty it reaches
maturity and appears in a perfect form with the utmost grace. . . . In the same manner, it
is evident that this terrestrial globe, having once found existence, grew and developed in
the matrix of the universe, and came forth in different forms and conditions, until grad-
ually it attained this present perfection, and became adorned with innumerable beings,
and appeared as a finished organization.98
The most striking point here is that like humankind, the physical earth itself came into exis-
tence with a cluster of particular potentialities and has been manifesting these over time. One
of these potentials was for the development of various forms of life among which humans are
included. Had there been no such potentials for manifesting life inherent in the earth, no such
life forms would have developed here.
Equally important is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s point that once in existence, all things, be they babies or
planets, develop according to their potentials, and that, for various reasons, at different stages,
they have different outer forms. Even though outwardly, phenomenally, they may lack certain
potentials, inwardly, or essentially they may well have them. We cannot judge strictly by the
outer, apparent form at one moment because potentials manifest over a period of time. Thus,
the conclusion drawn by an examination of bones (outward forms) that by reason of resem-
blance to animals, humankind was once an animal is logically unwarranted. As convergent evo-
lution shows, similarity is no proof of any relationship, let alone ancestry; logically speaking,
similarity is not identity. Moreover, similarity of bone might be covering up differences in
soft, non-surviving organs such as the brain. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá does not deny that humankind once
appeared more primitive than today; He simply denies the conclusion that because of their
primitive appearance, our ancestors were animals. He does not deny the data, but rather the
conclusion drawn from it. And He does so for good reason: no matter how dissimilar or simi-
lar they appear to other species, humans have potentials lacking in animals.

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
To see what this means, let us perform the following thought experiment. Imagine a popu-
lation of the alleged common ancestor of apes and humans being subjected to random muta-
tions. It takes only a little thought to realize that even random mutations can only attain cer-
tain results in an organism that has the potential to be affected by the mutation in a certain
way. A random mutation in a carrot will not produce a hummingbird; carrot’s lack the capacity
for such a change. In this population of alleged common ancestors, some had the potential for
being randomly mutated in this way and some did not. That’s why some mutated and some did-
n’t. At this point it becomes clear that the difference between those that have the potential or
capacity for a change that will allow them to manifest certain human abilities and those that
don’t, is an essential difference, a difference in kind, not degree. In other words, even then at
the stage of unmanifested potentials, there was already a difference between the two popula-
tions despite similarity or even identity of outward appearance. In short, the notion that
humans were once essentially animals is not only not supported by data drawn exclusively from
surviving bones, but also is not supported by logical reasoning about potentials.
It might be argued that this pits the Bahá’í Writings against current scientific consensus and
thus violates the Bahá’í teaching of the harmony of science and religion. Whether or not this
objection holds true depends on how we interpret what this teaching means. I shall argue that
it does not mean that religion and science must agree on each and every point at all times and
under all circumstances. This is because science itself is evolving; today’s truth is tomorrow’s
‘myth’ or falsehood. For example, at one time, science was certain that sunlight was somehow
necessary to all life yet the discovery of life near deep-sea vents disproved that assertion.
Rather than demanding absolute detailed agreement, in my view the doctrine of harmony
between science and religions means a mutual and fundamental commitment to reason and
rational inquiry as far as they can go. Rational critique by either side of the other is not ruled
out by the demand for harmony between them just as rational critique among scientists them-
selves does not deny their harmonious co-operation in the project of discovering the truth.
Aristotle’s four-fold teaching about causality lets us develop this theme even further.
2.10) The Consequences for the Unity of Science and Religion
Aristotle’s doctrine of four-fold causality lays the foundation for the unification of science
and religion in a single, coherent scheme. Science restricts itself to the study of the material
and efficient causes of all phenomena whereas religion studies the formal and final causes. In
this sense, they complement, that is, complete, each other and, thereby, help us make complete
sense of the phenomenal world.
The issue of final causes will, of course, lead to some controversy about the nature of sci-
ence and the role of empiricism in the quest for knowledge. However, much of this conflict is
spurious insofar as much of the debate on this subject is based on Galileo’s and Descartes’ mis-
understanding of what Aristotle actually said. As Henry Veatch points out, final cause is a per-
fectly commonsensical notion, applicable to nature as well as products of conscious work once
we understand what Aristotle meant. Here is how Veatch explains final causes:
In other words, since natural agents and efficient causes as far as we understand them, are
found to have quite determinate and more or less predictable results, to that same extent
we can also say that such forces are therefore ordered to their own appropriate conse-
quences or achievement: it is these they regularly tend to produce, and it is these that may
thus be said to be their proper ends . . . Aristotelian final causes are no more than this:
the regular and characteristic consequences or results that are correlated with the charac-
teristic actions of various agents and efficient causes that operate in the natural world.99

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
In other words, Aristotle’s concept of final causes is no less scientific than a chemical for-
mula that successfully predicts the results of certain actions or the belief in the law of gravity.
One might also express this by saying that final causes are the potentials that will actualize
when certain preconditions are met either naturally or through conscious human manipulation.
They are not, as has been so often claimed, mere anthropomorphisms and do not undermine
the doctrine of the unity of science and religion.
It has already become obvious that neither Aristotle nor the Writings countenance an
absolute division between the natural and super-natural, that is between at least some aspects
of natural science and what Aristotle calls ‘theology.”100 In the Physics, for example, Aristotle
uses logic to move smoothly from a consideration of causality to the argument for the existence
of God, a non-sensible substance and cause, as a First Mover. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, as we have already
seen above, also makes use of this argument. In short, both see God, regarded as a logically
necessary First Mover, as an integral part of physics. Moreover, both see science as being at
least in part, deductive, that is, able to attain certainty on the basis of carefully formulated
premises. This is not to say they deny induction101 but rather that they realize that science
requires both.
Though there is no space to pursue it in detail here, it seems evident that the Bahá’í Writings
about epistemology and philosophy of science confirm much of Aristotle’s philosophy and then
add revelation as the crown of its epistemic/scientific edifice. Here is another example: the
Writings accept Aristotle’s enumeration of the soul’s powers as the nutritive, the appetitive, the
sensory, the locomotive, and the power of thinking,102 the last being confined to
humankind.103 Moreover, Aristotle is even willing to countenance the idea of “immediate intu-
ition”104 although he points out it represents a different epistemological problem and does not
pursue it anywhere else in his works. In his discussion of epistemological issues, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
says,
Briefly then, these four criteria according to the declarations of men are: first, sense per-
ception; second, reason; third, traditions; fourth, inspiration.105
In regards to the first two, sense perception and reason, the Bahá’í Writings and Aristotle
are in complete agreement: the process of knowing begins with sense knowledge to which ani-
mals, though not humans, are confined.106 We then rise to reason in order to draw rational con-
clusions that take us beyond the senses and particular objects but which we can trust if we have
reasoned correctly. His brief reference to intuition aside, Aristotle’s epistemology stops at this
point. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, however, while not rejecting these four sources of knowledge finds them
inadequate107 and points out the need for revelation. This leads to the conclusion that while
Aristotle and the Bahá’í Writings agree on the role of sense knowledge, reason and possibly
intuition, from the Bahá’í view, Aristotle’s epistemology is not so much mistaken as incom-
plete.
2.11) The Consequences for Epistemology
Finally, the commitment to causality and especially ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s endorsement of Aristotle’s
four causes of phenomenal existents commits a Bahá’í epistemology to the view that all knowl-
edge of phenomenal entities is knowledge of causes—which is precisely Aristotle’s view.108 This
also provides another reason why humans cannot comprehend God: as phenomenal beings pre-
ceded by causes we are simply incapable of understanding a being that is not. We may recog-
nize the fact that we cannot and even why we cannot; we may be able to deduce the existence
of such an entity and some of its attributes, but we are unable to provide any explanation what-
ever for an uncaused Being.

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
2.12) The Great Chain of Being
At this point in our necessarily cursory survey of Aristotelian and Bahá’í cosmology, it
makes sense to pause and reflect on the profound implications of what has been discovered so
far. First, we see the universe portrayed as fundamentally causal. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes, in an
Aristotelian argument that once again employs causality to prove the existence of God:
And likewise, those outside influences are subjected to other influences in their turn.. For
example, the growth and development of a human being is dependent upon the existence
of water, and water is dependent upon the existence of rain, and rain is dependent upon
the existence of clouds, and clouds are dependent upon the existence of the sun, which
causeth land and sea to produce vapour, the condensation of vapour forming the clouds.
Thus each one of these entities exerteth its influence and is likewise influenced in its turn.
Inescapably then, the process leadeth to One Who influenceth all, and yet is influenced
by none, thus severing the chain.109
In effect, both Aristotle and the Bahá’í Writings promulgate the doctrine known as “the
great chain of being”110 in which all parts of the created world are joined together by causali-
ty or mutual influence and in which each part builds upon and augments what is below it. This
cannot help but rule out any rigorously non-causal interpretations of the universe, that is, any
view which asserts that events—regardless of whether they are micro or macrocosmic—simply
happen without prior cause. The concept of absolute randomness is simply not an option in
this view. Causality ensures that there is at least some fundamental order in the universe111 and
rules out any understandings of the universe as genuinely chaotic. It bears noting here that
causality and determinism are not the same things. As Aristotle pointed out, two unrelated
lines of causality may meet and generate a coincidence, an event that could not be determined
by even the most minute analysis of either line of causality. If I go to the market to buy fruit
and Ann goes to buy bread, our meeting was not pre-determined though every movement has
a cause. Further, if Ann pays me the money she owes me, that too is not determined by our
mere meeting. These causes, while necessary, are simply not sufficient to explain the events
fully from which we may conclude that causality does not necessarily lead to the loss of free
will.
There is, however, another sense in which the Bahá’í Writings and Aristotle agree on a great
chain of being, namely, the existence of a cosmic hierarchy, “an order of perfection in the kinds
of existence, with man highest among the biological existents.”112 This, of course, is readily
apparent in the Bahá’í Writings, when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, for example, that the differences in
reflecting the divine bounties are “of degree and receptivity”113 and that “ all beings, whether
large or small, were created perfect and complete from the first, but their perfections appear
in them by degrees.”114 Humankind is the acme of natural, phenomenal beings because it is
“the collective reality, the general reality and is the center where the glory of all the perfections
of God shine forth.”115
2.13) The Structure of the Cosmos
Would Aristotle agree with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá on the nature of this cosmic hierarchy? We must
answer positively because the Bahá’í Writings and Aristotle share identical views on the hier-
archical structure of the physical world. According to Aristotle and the Writings, nature is
divided into four kingdoms with ever-increasing powers of action: the mineral, vegetable, ani-
mal and human116 where every step up includes the powers below it in addition to a new power
that provides an essential identity. Humankind, of course, comprehends all the levels below it,
that is, has all the powers of the mineral, vegetable and animal in addition to a distinguishing

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
and essentially human power of reason.117 Aristotle’s views on this matter receive one of their
most through explorations in Book III of On the Soul.
3) The Soul
Both the existence and nature of the soul are another key area of agreement between the
Bahá’í Writings and Aristotle. However, before we explore this subject, it is important to clar-
ify the Bahá’í usage of some terminology. We must understand that according to Bahá’u’lláh,
“spirit, mind, soul, hearing and sight are one but differ through differing causes.”118 In other
words, the mind, the rational soul, the power of sight and hearing are all the operations of a
single power—spirit—through different instruments. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá confirms this when He says,
“It is the same reality which is given different names according to the different conditions
wherein it is manifested . . . when it governs the physical functions of the human body, it is
called the human soul; when it manifests itself as the thinker, the comprehender, it is called
mind; And when it soars into the atmosphere of God, and travels to the spiritual world, it
becomes designated as spirit.”119 Aristotle expresses a similar view as the mind as a power of
the soul when he writes, “by mind I mean that whereby the soul thinks and judges.”120 As Julio
Savi writes, “These words enable us to understand the fundamental one-ness of the spirit
beyond the multiplicity of its expressions... The instruments of the soul (or spirit of man)
should not, therefore, be viewed as independent entities, but as different aspects of the same
reality in its different functions.”121 It is essential not to lose sight of this fact if we wish to
make clear sense of what would otherwise be a confused and self-contradictory jumble in the
Writings.
The significance of the equation ‘spirit = mind = soul’ is that it is in fundamental agreement
with Aristotle’s own views. As in Bahá’u’lláh’s statement, Aristotle, too, maintains that the soul
controls such bodily functions as movement,122 nutrition and reproduction123 and possesses
the powers of sight,124 touch,125 sensation and, most significantly in light of Bahá’u’lláh’s
statement, thinking.126 Thinking is an activity of the mind, or, what Aristotle calls the ‘active
reason’ or ‘active intellect.’ As we shall see, it is explicitly identified with the soul’s higher,
specifically human functions for Aristotle, like the Bahá’í Writings, also divides the human
soul into two parts, the lower, that is, animal bodily functions and the higher, specifically
human function of reason which he calls “divine.”127 Moreover, in complete agreement with
the Bahá’í Writings,128 he makes it clear that sickness, old age and death are not a diminish-
ing of the soul itself but rather of its bodily “vehicle.”128
We have already seen explicit agreement on the existence of a vegetable, animal and human
soul each including the powers of the one below it and adding its own essentially unique pow-
ers.129 Soul is the essence or form which “corresponds to the definitive formula of a thing’s
essence.”130 Soul, in other words, is the “essential ‘whatness of a body.’”131 This, in turn, makes
soul the “substance”132 as well as the “actuality”133 of a body—a point on which it is absolute-
ly necessary to note that ‘substance’ does not necessarily mean ‘matter’ in Aristotle. That said,
let us see just how similar Aristotle’s views and the Writings. I shall first present a list of items
on which Aristotle and the Writings share congruent views on the soul, and then focus on two
in particular: the immateriality of the mind and the immortality of the soul.
3.1) Rational Soul as Humankind’s Essential Attribute
The first similarity between the Writings and Aristotle’s concept of the soul is both the
Bahá’í Writings and Aristotle see the rational soul as the essential attribute that distinguishes
humankind from the rest of nature. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, for example identifies the “rational soul”134
with the “human spirit”135 and describes the “station of the rational soul”136 as “the human

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
reality.”137 Elsewhere He asserts “The human spirit which distinguishes man from the animal
is the rational soul, and these two names—the human spirit and the rational soul—designate one
thing.”138 For his part Aristotle shows his agreement with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá by saying that
“Without reason man is a brute.”139 He also asserts that “happiness is activity in accordance
with virtue”140 and that the highest virtue—both in the sense of the highest good and the high-
est power in humankind—is contemplation.141 He writes, “Happiness, therefore, must be some
form of contemplation142 and adds that since “reason is divine,”143 “he who exercises his rea-
son and cultivates it seems to be both in the best state of mind and most dear to the gods.”144
Although Aristotle himself never uses the scholastic term “rational soul,” clearly in his view,
reason distinguishes humankind distinct from the rest of nature145 and it is by virtue of ratio-
nality that humankind partakes of the divine, or, at any rate partakes of it in a fuller measure
than the rest.”146
3.2) Rational Soul As Immortal
The fact that the human soul distinguishes us from the rest of nature prepares the way for
us to recognize that, unlike other beings, it is immortal, another issue on which Aristotle and
the Bahá’í Writings agree. Aristotle’s own views show some development—but no wavering on
the fundamental issue of eternal survival. In Eudemus, he asserts that the soul existed before
entering the body and will continue to exist afterwards147 an opinion not continued in
Aristotle’s other works touching on the same subject. This view bears at least some resemblance
to the Bahá’í notion that soul pre-existed potentially before its creation or actualization in
material form.148 However, his most famous and influential reference to immortality occurs
On the Soul, where he tells us unequivocally that the human soul, or at least, the specifically
human parts of the soul “may be separable because they are not the actualities of any body at
all.”149 Not being “the formula of a thing’s essence”150 that is, the essence of any bodily organ,
they are not limited by them. Elsewhere, Aristotle informs us that the ability to think “seems
to be to be a widely different kind of soul, differing as what is eternal from what is perish-
able; it alone is capable of existence in isolation from all other psychic powers.”151 Aristotle
also says that when the mind is “set free from its present conditions it [the mind] appears just
as it is and nothing more; this alone is immortal and eternal.”152 In short, the specifically
human aspects of the soul can exist without the body and are immortal. The strength of Bahá’í
belief in immortality—which needs no great elaboration here—is perhaps best summed up in the
title of chapter 66 of Some Answered Questions, “The Existence of the Rational Soul After
the Death of the Body” and the various proofs offered in support. What is plainly evident is
that Aristotle’s belief in the immortality of the mind, or active reason153 and the Bahá’í
Writings are not just in general but in quite specific agreement that what survives is our
human, rational functions and not our animal selves.
3.3) Soul as Substance
Among other agreements between Aristotle and the Writings, we find the idea that the soul
is a substance,154 not, of course, in the sense of Locke’s materialist misunderstanding of the
term, but in the sense of a distinct entity that does not merely exist as a predicate of some-
thing else. Indeed, it is “the cause or source of the living body.”155 The soul is real and no mere
emergent or epiphenomenon of physiological processes and is distinct from the body. In other
words, when discussing the soul, we must not confuse the appearance of the soul in the body
once the body is an adequate mirror and the notion that soul is a product of physiological
events. In fact, the situation is quite the other way around: as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “the rational
soul is the substance through which the body exists.”156 Elsewhere, He states:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
Some think that the body is the substance and exists by itself, and that the spirit is acci-
dental and depends upon the substance of the body, although, on the contrary, the ratio-
nal soul is the substance, and the body depends upon it. If the accident—that is to say, the
body—be destroyed, the substance, the spirit, remains.157
These statements could almost be a paraphrase of Aristotle’s claim that “the soul is the pri-
mary substance and the body is the matter”158 which is the philosophical gist of what ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá says. Using Aristotelian language—“substance [that] exists by itself”159 and “acci-
dent”160—He clearly rejects the reduction of the soul to an “accident”160 or epiphenomenon
resulting from physiological processes. By asserting that the “rational soul is the substance,”161
He is, of course, implicitly asserting that the rational soul is also the essence and actuality of
the body; it is what the body seeks to realize as best it can given its material limitations to
reflect the essence or soul. These views harmonize with Aristotle’s who tells us, for example,
that the soul is a substance, form, essence and actuality,162 the body’s final cause163 as well as
the origin or cause of the living body.164 Indeed, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement here also tells us that
the soul or spirit is, in effect, unassailable by external events, a view that is shared by Aristotle
when he writes that “The incapacity of old age is due to the affection not of the soul but of its
vehicle . . . mind itself is impassible . . .”165
3.4) Mind / matter- Mind / body Dualism
The concept that the “spirit or human soul”166 can exist separately from the body
inescapably commits Aristotle168 and the Bahá’í Writings to some form of what is called
mind/matter dualism but which could just as well be termed soul/matter dualism. Aristotle
says bluntly that “the body cannot be the soul”169 and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá states,
The spirit, or the human soul, is the rider; and the body is only the steed . . . The spirit
may be likened to the lamp within the lantern. The body is simply the outer lantern. If the
lantern should break the light is ever the same . . .170
Elsewhere He tells us “the reality of man is clad in the outer garment of the animal.”171
Clearly evident in these statements is an actual not merely intellectual distinction between the
“human soul” or the specifically human powers of the soul and our animal bodies. This sup-
ported by the fact that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá often and approvingly quotes Christ’s statement that what
is born of flesh or matter is flesh, and what is born of spirit is spirit.172 Clearly, spirit and
matter are two essentially different things.
It may be objected that the oneness of reality precludes any form of dualism but such is not
the truly case. The following quotation is often produced to support some kind of monism in
the Bahá’í Writings:
It is necessary, therefore, that we should know what each of the important existences was
in the beginning—for there is no doubt that in the beginning the origin was one: the ori-
gin of all numbers is one and not two. Then it is evident that in the beginning matter was
one, and that one matter appeared in different aspects in each element. Thus various forms
were produced, and these various aspects as they were produced became permanent, and
each element was specialized. But this permanence was not definite, and did not attain
realization and perfect existence until after a very long time. Then these elements became
composed, and organized and combined in infinite forms; or rather from the composition
and combination of these elements innumerable beings appeared.173
In the first place, both this passage and its context, refer to matter rather than spirit or soul
and assert no more than that originally, matter was one and that gradually various forms of

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
matter evolved or broke symmetry from this initial super-symmetry. There is not the slightest
suggestion here that soul, spirit or mind are somehow forms of matter albeit very subtle ones.
Moreover, even if one chose to ignore its obvious reference to matter alone, and read this pas-
sage as implying that spirit and matter were all originally one, the situation does not change
for us as we are today. The passage clearly indicates that matter, and by supposed implication,
spirit, have by now evolved into different forms so that whatever unity they may have once had,
no longer exists now. Whatever the situation may have been in the past, we now live in a world
that shows a clear and essential distinction between matter and spirit. Thus, if there is a
monism in the Bahá’í Writings, it is at best a ‘historical monism’ which is no longer function-
al.
I would suggest that the following understanding of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statements is more con-
sistent with the Writings than the ‘monist’ interpretation. His statement that “The organiza-
tion of God is one: the evolution of existence is one: the divine system is one”174 does not mean
all parts of the organization or system are the same and that differences are unreal. Indeed,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá rejects that concept when He says that humankind is truly and essentially sepa-
rate and distinct from nature, that we possess powers not found in nature itself, that, in effect,
the phenomenal universe, though one insofar as it is a coherent and unified system dependent
on God, is also divided in two insofar as we possesses powers not found in the rest of
nature.175 This constitutes a radical division or differentiation within nature though it does
not, of course, deny the oneness of the overall system of reality. Furthermore, according to the
Writings, things differ in their capacity to reflect the divine Names or bounties176 and those
differences of degree are real, essential and permanent.177 Just as we can never evolve into
gods, so stones can never evolve into humans; these stations are fixed because “inequality in
degree and capacity is a property of nature.”178 These inequalities and differences are real
because they are divinely ordained as part of God’s system. Nor can they be crossed.179 The
issue can, of course, be explained using Aristotelian terminology: there are many kinds of
unity—unity of matter or material, unity of substance or essence, unity of form, unity of pur-
pose, unity of logical relationship such as dependence and so on. “The organization of
God,”180 the single divine system 181 has a formal and purposive unity, which is different
from and must not be confused with as a material and/or substantial unity. Because all things
are unified does not mean they are all fundamentally the same. In other words, the dualism of
mind-soul-spirit and physical body does not contradict the organizational or systematic unity
of creation.
3.5) The Body / Soul Connection
Given their distinctness, it is natural to ask how body and soul are connected. According to
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the mediator between the outer, bodily senses and our inner mental senses such
as memory and imagination is the “common faculty” which “communicates between the out-
ward and inward powers and thus is common to the outward and inward powers.”182 Aristotle’s
views on this matter are not directly addressed to the mind/body issue as we understand it now,
so we must infer his views from other writings to related topics. For example, he mentions the
“common sense”183 that allows the presentation of events perceived outwardly to be recollect-
ed inwardly. In effect, this “common sense” mediates between the physical senses or the body
and the intellectual senses or the remembering mind. He also sees it as deriving general, that
is, abstract ideas from the physical data supplied by the senses. Here too it operates as a medi-
ator between body and mind.184 He does not, however, consider it a separate sixth sense.
In continuing to explore the subject of how the soul is related to the body, we must be sure
to divest ourselves of the notion that the soul somehow resides inside the body like a seed in

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
a pot. Neither Aristotle nor the Bahá’í Writings see the soul as a ‘foreign entity’ that somehow
enters the body. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá tells us, “the rational soul, meaning the human spirit, does not
descend into the body—that is to say, it does not enter it, for descent and entrance are charac-
teristics of bodies, and the rational soul is exempt from this. The spirit never entered this
body.”185 Aristotle holds a similar view, criticizing as “absurdity”186 those theories that would
“join the soul to a body, or place it in a body.”187 This, of course, leaves us with the question
of the soul’s relationship to the body, a relationship described by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as follows resem-
bling the relationship of light to a mirror: “When the mirror is clear and perfect, the light of
the lamp will be apparent in it, and when the mirror becomes covered with dust or breaks, the
light will disappear.”188
What, then, is the precise relationship of the soul or spirit to the body according to Aristotle
and the Bahá’í Writings? We must bear in mind that both provide a philosophical answer, that
is, formal answers or answers in principle, rather than specific physical or bio-chemical expla-
nations for which we will have to look elsewhere. If we analyze ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s metaphor of the
mirror and the light, we find that, in Aristotelian language, the issue is relatively straightfor-
ward: the soul is formally or virtually but not substantially present in the body just as the sun
is formally but not substantially present in the mirror. The sun enlightens the mirror just as—
to use Aristotle’s analogy189—the impression of the signet ring in-forms or provides form to the
wax. In other words, the sun itself is never in the mirror but its image, its form or virtual pres-
ence is there as long as the mirror is capable of reflecting it. When the mirror breaks, the sun
does not disappear anymore than the signet ring is destroyed when the wax melts. In
Aristotelian language, we would say that the soul in-forms matter to the degree that matter is
capable of receiving that form.
Several things are clear at this point. First, in these analogies, neither the sun nor the signet
ring depends on something else for its existence whereas the reverse is certainly the case.
Second, light is the intermediary between the sun and the mirror, an observation similar to
Aristotle’s belief that the soul enlightens or provides light for the active intellect (mind) to per-
ceive, abstract and discriminate. Third, both light source and its emanated light surround the
mirror, just as, according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the “spirit surrounds the body”190 without being
physically present in it. Aristotle would agree with at least the latter part of this statement.
4) Epistemology: Mind and Brain
Another important similarity between Aristotle and the Bahá’í Writings is the clear distinc-
tion between the non-material mind and its physical organ, the brain. The two work together
but are not the same. For his part, Aristotle calls the mind “the place of forms”191 and even
“the form of forms”192 which is “capable of receiving the forms of an object.”193 In other
words, the mind is not a physical thing, or, in the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “the power of intel-
lect is not sensible; none of the inner qualities of man is a sensible thing.”194 Because it is itself
not sensible195, the mind does not work with sensible realities, that is, actual substances, but
rather with forms, or what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá calls “symbols”196 of outward things. Instead, the mind
perceives forms, picturing to itself as forms various perceptions and intellectual realities197
such as love, God, goodness and other qualities. In a discussion of epistemology, he says, “The
other kind of human knowledge is intellectual—that is to say, it is a reality of the intellect; it
has no outward form and no place and is not perceptible to the senses.”198 The Aristotelian term
for a phenomenal reality that is not sensible is ‘form,’ so here too we find endorsement for the
Aristotelian concept of the mind working with forms. Indeed, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá interprets this
capacity to work with forms as a sign of the mind’s super-natural nature:

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
The spirit of man, however, can manifest itself in all forms at the same time. For exam-
ple, we say that a material body is either square or spherical, triangular or hexagonal.
While it is triangular, it cannot be square; and while it is square, it is not triangular.
Similarly, it cannot be spherical and hexagonal at the same time . . . But the human spirit
in itself contains all these forms, shapes and figures . . . As an evidence of this, at the pre-
sent moment in the human spirit you have the shape of a square and the figure of a tri-
angle. Simultaneously also you can conceive a hexagonal form. All these can be conceived
at the same moment in the human spirit, and not one of them needs to be destroyed or
broken in order that the spirit of man may be transferred to another.199
At this point it need only be added that the belief that the human spirit or mind can take in
by perception or imagine and contain the forms of things is one of the center-pieces of
Aristotelian philosophical and cognitive psychology whose outlines are visible in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
remarks here and elsewhere.
4.1) Reality is Discovered not Constructed
The similarities between Aristotle and the Bahá’í Writings in regards to epistemological mat-
ters do not end here. Perhaps most significant and far-reaching is their agreement that the mind
or spirit discovers and does not create either spiritual or material realities. Bahá’u’lláh writes,
“Immerse yourselves in the ocean of My words, that ye may unravel its secrets, and discover
all the pearls of wisdom that lie hid in its depths.”200 Elsewhere He writes that the divine “gift
of understanding”201 “giveth man the power to discern the truth in all things, leadeth him to
that which is right, and helpeth him to discover the secrets of creation.”202 Nowhere does
Bahá’u’lláh state or even suggest that humankind creates or constructs reality. Indeed, if they
create anything like reality it tends to be things like the “thick clouds”203 of “idle fancies and
vain imaginings.204 Bahá’u’lláh uses the latter phrase throughout His Writings to refer to those
who refuse to see the truth about Him and prefer their own imaginative constructions.
Significantly, He accounts them with “the lost in the Book of God.”205 In a similar vein, He
exhorts the Persian people to “come forth to discover the Truth which hath dawned from the
Day-Star of Truth”206 about the new Manifestation of God. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statements consis-
tently support the contention that human beings discover—and do not construct—truths about
the spiritual and material realms. Indeed, humankind is distinct from the rest of nature and
animals because it possesses “the intellectual characteristic, which discovereth the realities of
things and comprehendeth universal principles,”207 an idea that is widely scattered throughout
the Writings in a wide variety of contexts. He also informs us that “When we carefully inves-
tigate the kingdoms of existence and observe the phenomena of the universe about us, we dis-
cover the absolute order and perfection of creation.”208
The power of the rational soul can discover the realities of things, comprehend the pecu-
liarities of beings, and penetrate the mysteries of existence. All sciences, knowledge, arts,
wonders, institutions, discoveries and enterprises come from the exercised intelligence of
the rational soul. There was a time when they were unknown, preserved mysteries and hid-
den secrets; the rational soul gradually discovered them and brought them out from the
plane of the invisible and the hidden into the realm of the visible. This is the greatest
power of perception in the world of nature, which in its highest flight and soaring com-
prehends the realities, the properties and the effects of the contingent beings.209
Furthermore, God has endowed humankind “with mind, or the faculty of reasoning, by the
exercise of which he is to investigate and discover the truth, and that which he finds real and
true he must accept.”210 Aristotle, of course, holds the same views, so much so that the whole

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
notion of the human ‘construction’ of reality is found nowhere in his works. The Metaphysics
begins with his reflections on past efforts to find the truth about reality, and their various
inadequacies; the Psychology and various other books explore how the senses and the soul work
to perceive and discover the nature of the surrounding world.
4.2) Epistemological Realism and Correspondence Theory of Truth
From this we can conclude that the Bahá’í Writings and Aristotle agree on several key epis-
temological issues subject to vociferous contemporary debate: first, that natural reality is
objectively real and does not depend on human observers for its existence; second, that reality
and its laws are given by God, not constructed, and that we must work with what is given; and
third, that truth is the correspondence between reality and our interpretation of it, or, put oth-
erwise, that reality and our interpretation of it are two distinct things and that we must test
our interpretations against reality to discover whether or not they are in agreement. From this
follows that reality is discovered and that there is such a thing as error, that is, an erroneous
or inadequate understanding of reality that can be cured by abandoning it in order to change
from ignorant to more knowledgeable. In other words, the Bahá’í Writings and Aristotle share
a realist epistemology.211 Without these premises, the entire Aristotelian and Bahá’í enterpris-
es would collapse, most especially the Bahá’í doctrine of progressive revelation which presumes
increasingly adequate comprehension of various truths. Finally, the belief that properties are
real makes the Bahá’í Writings and Aristotle incompatible with nominalism, that is, the belief
that properties are either arbitrary human selections or outright impositions only externally
related to their objects and that essences are fictitious. (See Aristotle’s refutation of the under-
lying logic of nominalism in Metaphysics, VII, 12.) For its part, realism holds that the rela-
tionship between attributes and substance is internal, that is, inherent and intrinsic and that
essences are natural and real.
The fact that for Aristotle the forms, essences or universals do not exist in a separate world
or “Kingdom of Names”212 must not under any circumstances be interpreted to mean that for
him these forms or essences are any less real than for Plato, the neo-Platonists and the
Writings. No less than Plato, Aristotle is a realist, that is, believes that essences or forms are
absolutely real and not mere human constructs. Moreover, the universals we abstract from par-
ticular things correspond to absolute realities; they are emphatically not arbitrary creations or
selections. For this reason, the most we may conclude is that the difference between Aristotle
and Plato is not whether or not the original essences or forms exist, but rather about where and
how they exist—in a separate world, “Kingdom”213 or mind—or exemplified or instantiated in
particular things. From this it follows that Aristotle cannot be presented as a nominalist with-
out doing violence to his metaphysic and epistemology; his view, says renowned Aristotle schol-
ar W. D. Ross, “is not that the object is constituted by thought.”214 Indeed, he is an “extreme
realist allowing for no modification, still less construction of the object by the mind.”215 Even
in regards to the universal that is abstracted from particulars, Ross says “the universal is always
for Aristotle something which though perfectly real and objective has no separate existence.”216
This means that we cannot divide the Bahá’í Writings from Aristotle on the issue of the reali-
ty of forms or essences as Keven Brown seems tempted to do in Evolution and Bahá’í Belief.217
Indeed, it is not too much to say that anything other than a realist, correspondence theory
of truth would render numerous passages in the Writings meaningless. If reality were not objec-
tively given and all constructions equally adequate or valid, Bahá’u’lláh could not lament that
He “fell under the treatment of ignorant physicians, who gave full rein to their personal desires,
and have erred grievously.”218 These physicians are ignorant precisely because they have con-
structed reality to fit their “personal desires”219 and thus “erred grievously.”220 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
could neither tell us that an “ignorant man by learning becomes knowing, and the world of sav-
agery, through the bounty of a wise educator, is changed into a civilized kingdom.”221 nor that
the soul’s journey is necessary in order to acquire divine knowledge”222 to overcome our “lower
nature, which is ignorant and defective.”223 Manifestations could not provide humankind with
the “science of reality.”224 Without the existence of objective truth about reality, we could not
be transformed from “the ignorant of mankind into the knowing”225; it would make no sense
for ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to say that “the ignorant must be educated.”226 Indeed, the whole Bahá’í con-
cept of evolution to further knowledge and understanding both in this world and the next
would be moot.
Aristotle’s and the Writing’s agreement about the discovery (not construction) of reality and
the correspondence theory of truth is bound to be a controversial issue in our times when the-
ories about the ‘construction’ of reality abound. It is, therefore, necessary to explain in some-
what greater detail what Aristotle and the Writings mean. In a nutshell, the issue stands as fol-
lows: we all discover the same basic reality but construct different interpretations of it.
However, these interpretations or constructions are constrained by the nature of what they are
interpreting. For example, we may understand fire in various ways from the specific chemistry
of combustion to a manifestation of divine power but what no interpretation can deny is that
fire is hot and will burn human flesh unless counter-measures are taken. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
“The power of the rational soul can discover the realities of things, comprehend the peculiar-
ities of beings, and penetrate the mysteries of existence.”227 How we interpret those “reali-
ties”228 may differ but all recognize the reality of fire’s power to inflict severe damage on
human flesh. In other words, in considering this issue, we must, as precisely as possible, dis-
tinguish between what is perceived and what is interpreted, that is, we must distinguish
between metaphysics and epistemology and hermeneutics. Here is another example. In pro-
gressive revelation, the Writings expect all to accept the fact or reality of Christ as a
Manifestation of God but also they expect us to understand or interpret what this fact means
in different ways at different times in history. As we can see, the doctrine of progressive rev-
elation logically depends on the mind’s ability to distinguish real and objective fact from inter-
pretation. Indeed, the Writings go even further because they explicitly condemn some inter-
pretations as erroneous, as being “the dust of vain imaginings and the smoke of idle fancy,”229
that is, misinterpretations due to the distortions of the ego and our lower animal natures. Here
too, the Writings implicitly expect us not only to distinguish real fact from constructed inter-
pretation but also to distinguish between constructions that are appropriate and inappropriate
for the age in which we live. This idea is also presented in the image of the sun’s light or real-
ity being diminished or distorted by the dust on the mirror: “The radiance of these energies
may be obscured by worldly desires even as the light of the sun can be concealed beneath the
dust and dross which cover the mirror.”230 The fact is that the mirror can be cleansed.231 Not
only does ‘Abdu’l-Bahá support this but He also makes it clear that not all mirrors are equal in
this regard: “The most important thing is to polish the mirrors of hearts in order that they may
become illumined and receptive of the divine light. One heart may possess the capacity of the
polished mirror; another, be covered and obscured by the dust and dross of this world.232
4.3) The Reality of Attributes
If attributes were not real, did not inhere in their substances and were not essential, how are
we understand ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that the “names and attributes of Divinity are eternal
and not accidental?233 Obviously the attributes of Divinity are not merely human constructs.
If they were, why bother to strive to live up to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that “The soul that
excels in attainment of His attributes and graces is most acceptable before God?234 What could

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
the phrase “His attributes”235 even mean? Indeed, if attributes and properties are not real, then
there is no rationale for God’s creation since, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá tells us that “It is necessary that
the reality of Divinity with all its perfections and attributes should become resplendent in the
human world.”236 Furthermore, the whole of Bahá’u’lláh’s salvational project would be useless
if properties were not real and did not provide real knowledge because of the Noonday Prayer’s
assertion that we were created “to know [God] and to worship [Him]” would be rendered mean-
ingless. If attributes are only human impositions, are not inherent and do not provide real
knowledge about things, they could only teach us, at most, about ourselves and our own modus
operandi. This would effectively leave us locked in a bubble of our own perceptions and con-
structs. Aside from their logical weaknesses, such views simply contradict ‘Abdu’l-Bahá when
He says:
But the question may be asked: How shall we know God? We know Him by His attribut-
es. We know Him by His signs. We know Him by His names. We know not what the real-
ity of the sun is, but we know the sun by the ray, by the heat, by its efficacy and penetra-
tion. We recognize the sun by its bounty and effulgence.237
Indeed, it is Bahá’u’lláh Himself who tells us that attributes are real when he describes God
as “the Creator of all names and attributes.”238 If God created them, they are obviously real.
If attributes were not real how could it be true that “His names and His attributes, are made
manifest in the world”?239 The following statement would also become senseless:
He must so educate the human reality that it may become the center of the divine appear-
ance, to such a degree that the attributes and the names of God shall be resplendent in the
mirror of the reality of man, and the holy verse “We will make man in Our image and like-
ness” shall be realized.240
If God had no real attributes how could they be made “resplendent in the mirror of the real-
ity of man”?241 Indeed, if attributes are simply human fictions and impositions, they could not
be attributes ‘of God’ and it would be we, the created, who are shaping the Creator and mak-
ing Him in our image. Such a notion simply violates the Bahá’í principle that the created can-
not comprehend—let alone shape—the Creator. Believing that such is the case would indeed be
to “join partners with God.”242
Nor should we think that it is only God Whom we know by means of attributes, for, as
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “Phenomenal, or created, things are known to us only by their attributes,”243
a fact supported by his statement that “In the human plane of existence we can say we have
knowledge of a vegetable, its qualities and product.”244 If these attributes did not provide real
knowledge about the object, the use of the word ‘know’ and its variations would be inappro-
priate. Obviously attributes are not simply human impositions but rather, actually provide
knowledge about the objects or substances we are studying. As Bahá’u’lláh says, “This gift [“the
gift of understanding”] giveth man the power to discern the truth in all things, leadeth him to
that which is right, and helpeth him to discover the secrets of creation.”245 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
reminds us that the rational soul, “the inner ethereal reality grasps the mysteries of existence,
discovers scientific truths and indicates their technical application.”246 Elsewhere He says,
“Man is able to resist and to oppose Nature because he discovers the constitution of things”247
once again demonstrating that in the Bahá’í view, humankind is capable of gaining real knowl-
edge through an exploration of reality. The continual use of the word ‘discover’ throughout the
Writings also proves that we discover what already exists independently and do not construct
it.

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
5) The Analysis of Reality
The topic of discovering reality leads readily to the all important issue of how we analyze it
to discover its truth. This subject, already touched on in our discussion of causality and the
Prime Mover, makes it clear that the Writings analyze and present reality in Aristotelian terms.
In other words, they present an Aristotelian vision of reality in which there are substances
which have essential and non-essential attributes; in which things have essences; in which—as
already shown—change is the actualization of potentials248; and in which materially existing
things are composites of matter and form, and subject to corruption. Readers may confirm for
themselves the pervasive use of this Aristotelian terminology by typing them into any hyper-
text edition of the Writings. They will find that these words occur in almost every book. Of
course, some of them also have a general, non-philosophical usage: ‘substance,’ for example, is
also employed as a synonym for ‘wealth.’249 In reviewing what follows, one must remember that
the Aristotelian concepts form a coherent system of inter-dependent concepts and the use of
one concept necessitates the use of at least some others.
However, before embarking on our survey of the Aristotelian analysis of reality, it is neces-
sary to look briefly at the important issue of ‘standpoint epistemologies,’ the notion that real-
ity appears differently to differing points of view. All too often these are erroneously equated
to relativism, the notion that all viewpoints of reality are equally true because all are ‘relative.’
However, properly understood, the two are not the same and must be clearly distinguished. The
Bahá’í Writings and Aristotle embody a stand point epistemology but are not even slightly rel-
ativistic. The best way to grasp the difference is to imagine a jig-saw puzzle picture of Mount
Fuji. A true stand-point epistemology simply asserts that there are many pieces all of which
have some portion of the truth; whatever their differences, the pieces are ultimately rationally
compatible with one another and will form a picture of the whole mountain. A relativist, on
the other hand, asserts that any piece—indeed, any piece from any puzzle—makes an equally
valid fit at every point on our Mount Fuji puzzle. There is nothing in the Bahá’í Writings nor
in Aristotle that suggest such relativism since doing so would vitiate not just the concept of
the Manifestation as a revealer of absolute truth but the entire concept of knowledge alto-
gether. We must not be misled, as some have been by Shoghi Effendi’s statement that “religious
truth is not absolute but relative, that Divine Revelation is progressive, not final.”250 In each
case where Shoghi Effendi makes this statement, the word ‘relative’ is clearly used in reference
to progressive revelation not to the truth value of the essential teachings. In terms of our illus-
tration, each Manifestation adds a piece to the puzzle but this does not even remotely suggest
that the truth value of the piece is not absolute.
5.1) A Brief Crash Course: Substance, Attribute and Essence
The primary concept in Aristotle’s analysis of reality is ‘substance,’ a concept which under-
went some development but never strayed far from the belief that a substance is anything
which does not exist as the attribute of something else. Substances are particulars, a fact that
is used by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in explaining the return of Elias.251 Your raincoat is a substance and
so is this essay. Substance, however, does not only mean ‘matter’ or what Aristotle called “sen-
sible substances.”252 When it does, such matter forms the “substratum”253 of a thing, namely
that which is given form. ‘Matter’ in Aristotle’s view is a relative term: matter is anything
which potentially receives form. In the case of your raincoat, matter may be physical material
but in regards to this study, the matter is the ideas expressed therein. A substance possesses
attributes which identify it as the particular substance it is, raincoat, essay, rose or idea and
these attributes are called its ‘essence’ which we must distinguish from other non-essential or
‘accidental’ attributes which a thing does not require to be what it is.254 For example, weight

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
and color are non-essential, accidental attributes in regards to the ideas in this essay. However,
being water-proof is an essential attribute to raincoats. Each of these three substances differs
essentially.
Neither essential nor accidental attributes can exist by themselves as substances: no one has
ever seen ‘red’ or ‘democracy’ or ‘crumpled’ by themselves because they depend on substances
to be real. Roughly speaking, Aristotle uses ‘substance’ in four different ways, as “sensible sub-
stance” or physical matter that receives form and is, therefore, a composite; as “non-sensible
substance” or spirit, or soul that provides form; as a general reference to any particular thing
which does not exist as an attribute of something else; and finally, as the form, essence or actu-
ality of a thing.255 The difference among the latter three terms is one of nuance and emphasis.
‘Form’ emphasizes the structure of a substance; ‘essence’ emphasizes its necessary attributes
and ‘actuality’ emphasizes the typical or culminating actions of a thing. Like the Bahá’í
Writings, Aristotle identifies humankind as the highest substance in the phenomenal realm.256
5.2) God as a Substance
Let us now analyze the concept of substance as used in Aristotle and the Writings in greater
depth. Both use the term in two distinct ways: as “sensible substance or matter in the ordinary
sense and as something which does not exist as an attribute. There are also non-sensible sub-
stances257 of which Aristotle recognizes, above all, God, the Unmoved Mover. Significantly
enough, this is exactly the Bahá’í position. For example, speaking about the Manifestations,
Bahá’u’lláh tells us,
Unto this subtle, this mysterious and ethereal Being He hath assigned a twofold nature; the
physical, pertaining to the world of matter, and the spiritual, which is born of the sub-
stance of God Himself.258
In this passage we first notice that, as with Aristotle, the “physical”259 is clearly distin-
guished from the “substance,”260 in this case, God’s substance. This establishes that the physi-
cal and the substantial are not the same and that God is a non-physical or non-sensible sub-
stance. If substance were understood materialistically, this statement would suggest that God
has a material substance, a notion flatly incompatible with the Bahá’í Teachings for that would
render God susceptible to change261 and make the Divine a composite of matter and form.
However, understood in an Aristotelian fashion, this passage presents no philosophical diffi-
culties. God is the supreme substance, the only entity which absolutely exists and can in no
wise be seen as an attribute of something else. He is also the supreme actuality insofar as God
has no potentials left to be actualized. That is precisely what makes the Divine inaccessible to
us.
Furthermore, this passage tells us that spiritually, the Manifestation is an immediate emana-
tion from God, and is formally, though not substantially identical with the Divine. This read-
ing, based on Aristotle’s terminology, is confirmed in the immediately following sentences
which state, “He hath, moreover, conferred upon Him a double station. The first station, which
is related to His innermost reality, representeth Him as One Whose voice is the voice of God
Himself. To this testifieth the tradition: ‘Manifold and mysterious is My relationship with God.
I am He, Himself, and He is I, Myself, except that I am that I am, and He is that He is.”262
The Manifestation has formal identity with God—“I am He”263—but not substantial identity
with God because He is “born of the substance of God”264 and “He is that He is.’”265 For an
Aristotelian, this relationship is rational, clear and perfectly unparadoxical: it is no different
than the relationship between the original of a manuscript and a copy: the two share formal
but not substantial identity and one is logically prior and is the final cause of the other.

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
5.3) The Soul as Substance
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s explanation of the nature of the immortal soul provides another example of
the Aristotelian usage of ‘substance’ and related terms.
Some think that the body is the substance and exists by itself, and that the spirit is acci-
dental and depends upon the substance of the body, although, on the contrary, the ratio-
nal soul is the substance, and the body depends upon it. If the accident—that is to say, the
body—be destroyed, the substance, the spirit, remains.266
The first thing to notice is how the Master defines substance in proper Aristotelian fashion
as something that “exists by itself”267 and not as an attribute of something else. Moreover, He
refers to the soul as a non-material substance and applies this concept vis-à-vis the body. This
is an implicit denial of any epiphenomenalist understanding of the soul, a point He empha-
sizes by describing the body with the Aristotelian term “accident.”268 An ‘accident’ according
to Aristotle, is an attribute that is non-essential to the existence of a thing which is why the
substantial soul can live without the ‘accidental’ body. Thus, we can see at this point, how
‘Abdu’l-Bahá grounds His argument for the immortality of the soul in the concepts and defin-
itions originally espoused by Aristotle. He explicitly states that “the rational soul is the sub-
stance through which the body exists.”269 It is, in other words, the essence that provides the
form that makes a body into a human body. Interestingly enough, Bahá’u’lláh applies this same
concept to the Manifestation’s relationship to the world:
At that time, the signs of the Son of man shall appear in heaven, that is, the promised
Beauty and Substance of life shall, when these signs have appeared, step forth out of the
realm of the invisible into the visible world.270
No materialist understanding can make rational sense of the italicized phrase. However, if
we apply Aristotle’s concept of substance, its meaning becomes clear: the Manifestation is the
essence of life; He is That which informs matter with life itself, and is, in that sense, the world-
soul. He is also the actuality, the culmination of life, that is, the highest possible example of
life in the phenomenal realm.
5.4) Other Uses of ‘Substance’
The Aristotelian use of substance also allows us to perceive new levels of meaning in some
of Bahá’u’lláh’s statements. Take, for example, the following:
When shall these things be? When shall the promised One, the object of our expectation,
be made manifest, that we may arise for the triumph of His Cause, that we may sacrifice
our substance for His sake, that we may offer up our lives in His path?271
At the first, most obvious level, this discusses our willingness to sacrifice our material
wealth for the Manifestation. However, an Aristotelian reading suggests a deeper level: it
expresses a willingness to sacrifice our very identity, our nature, our essence, our actuality for
God’s Cause. This is the martyrdom of ontological “evanescence,”272 of truly “utter abase-
ment”273 before God. Bahá’u’lláh alludes to such complete and ongoing ontological martyrdom
when he praises such holy souls as Mullah Husayn: “They have offered, and will continue to
offer up their lives, their substance, their souls, their spirit, their all, in the path of the Well-
Beloved.”274 With the Aristotelian reading of ‘substance,’ we see new aspects of Husayn’s mar-
tyrdom. The phrase “will continue to offer up”275 suggests that such ontological martyrdom
may not be a single act but rather a way of life.
I do not, of course, mean to suggest that the Writings never use the word ‘substance’ as a
synonym for ‘material,’ for such is patently not the case,276 but rather that we must carefully

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
distinguish between Aristotelian and non-Aristotelian usage if we wish to avoid confusion.
Take the following passage for instance: “Here we see that if attraction did not exist between
the atoms, the composite substance of matter would not be possible.”277 The phrase “compos-
ite substance of matter”278 makes no sense until we recall that for Aristotle, all physical things
were composites of matter which received form279 which together make them a substance or
unity.280 Indeed, as seen in the following example, we find that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá fully recognizes
that material things are composites of matter and form.
The sun is born from substance and form, which can be compared to father and mother,
and it is absolute perfection; but the darkness has neither substance nor form, neither
father nor mother, and it is absolute imperfection. The substance of Adam’s physical life
was earth, but the substance of Abraham was pure sperm; it is certain that the pure and
chaste sperm is superior to earth.281
In the first part of this statement, ‘substance’ is meant as ‘sensible substance’ or common
matter which, in order to be anything must receive form. He denies the reality of darkness
because in the phenomenal world, nothing that lacks substance and form is real. However, in
what follows, the meaning of ‘substance’ begins to shift in an Aristotelian direction. The sub-
stance of Adam, that is, his sensible substance as well as his being as a non-attribute, is con-
nected to the earth, whereas the substance of Abraham, a Manifestation, is “pure sperm.”
Unless we read them with the Aristotelian substratum of the Writings in mind, such statements
could intellectually embarrass a modern believer. However, the meaning becomes clear when
we recall that for Aristotle, sperm provided the form and that for Abraham in His divine sta-
tion, that form is provided by God with whom He shares a formal, though not substantial iden-
tity. This divine form is obviously superior to the sensible matter of the earth. Lest anyone
quarrel too harshly with Aristotle about sperm providing form, let us recall that sperm decides
whether an infant is male or female, that is, in that regard, the formative principle.
Here is another example of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s use of substance in Aristotelian fashion:
Know that the Reality of Divinity or the substance of the Essence of Oneness is pure sanc-
tity and absolute holiness—that is to say, it is sanctified and exempt from all praise.282
‘Substance’ is certainly not being used as “sensible substance” or matter, for that would render
the passage meaningless or in complete denial of other Bahá’í Teachings concerning the non-
materiality of God. This passage emphasizes in the strictest philosophical manner that God,
the Reality of Divinity, is a substance insofar as it is absolutely not an attribute of anything
else. The “substance of the essence of Oneness”283 means that the very substratum or essence
of what it means to be One is totally independent and sanctified above all other things.
Although this idea is not new to Bahá’ís, it is interesting to observe how ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
explains—and thus provides the basis for a rational philosophical defense—for this belief in
Aristotelian terms.
5.5) Hylomorphism: Matter and Form
As the foregoing passages make clear, the Writings and Aristotle284 agree on hylomorphism,
that is, the belief that everything in creation is made of both matter and form, though we must
bear in mind that ‘matter’ is a relative term in Aristotle insofar as it can refer to physical ‘stuff’
sometimes called “elemental”285 by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Most fundamental to Aristotle is the doc-
trine that matter is the potential to receive form. In Aristotle, the form is the active principle
while matter is receptive, passive or patient, an idea Bahá’u’lláh expresses when He writes:
The world of existence came into being through the heat generated from the interaction

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
between the active force and that which is its recipient. These two are the same, yet they
are different.286
Two comments are in order. First, the statement that these two are the “same”287 refers to
their origin and nature as created entities while their differences refer to their action in the
phenomenal world of creation. This statement should no more be read as a reductionism to spir-
it than as a reductionism to matter. The Bahá’í Writings, like Aristotle’s thought, are examples
of hylomorphism, the belief that existence is made of matter and form; therefore, neither of
them can be reduced to a spiritual-idealistic or material monism. Second, in the foregoing pas-
sage, the “heat generated”288 by the imposition of form onto matter is the tension that
inevitably exists between form and matter, since form is the active principle of perfection
while matter is the principle of receptivity but also of inertia. This tension is part of what con-
stitutes and most especially living things since the quest for perfection, that is, highest possi-
ble self-expression, is an integral part of their existence. Although Aristotle does not explicit-
ly refer to such tension, it is implicit in his characterization of matter and form.
The distinction between matter and form also brings us back to our resolution of the appar-
ent self-contradiction between creationism and emanationism and the associated doctrines of
time. ‘Creation’ refers to the notion that God made the world like an artisan, a concept imply-
ing that the world was made at some point in time. On the other hand, emanationism suggests
that the universe is eternal—which by the way is another point of agreement between Aristotle
and the Bahá’í Writings—and, consequently, there is no creation in time. On the basis of
Aristotle,289 we may conclude that ‘creation’ refers to the specific creation of a concrete thing
such as the earth or this universe whereas ‘emanation’ refers to the formal principle, essence
which has always existed as a potential available for actualization. After all, a Creator requires
a creation but nothing says this creation must be material. In short, there is no contradiction
between the two Teachings because one refers to the order of specific matter and time, where-
as the other refers to the order of potential and form.
5.6) Essences
Not only do Aristotle and the Bahá’í Writings analyze the world in terms of substances and
attributes, they also use the concept of ‘essence’ and accept essences as real. Controversial
though it may be in the current philosophical climate, the bottom line is that the Bahá’í
Writings espouse a form of essentialism, a fact that comes as no surprise given its adherence
to a realist epistemology and metaphysic. Because even the most cursory reading of such
Aristotelian works as Metaphysics, Physics and On the Soul, or any basic exposition of his
works reveals the centrality of ‘essence’ to his thought, I will not needlessly lengthen our study
by expounding on this subject. More to our purpose is to see how the concept of essence
appears in the Bahá’í Writings, for here, too, it plays a key role since everything, including
God, is said to have an essence.
The Bahá’í Writings use the term ‘essence’ in a variety of contexts and to express a variety
of ideas but none of them stray from the fundamental Aristotelian meaning of (a) the attribut-
es needed for a substance to be the kind of substance it is; (b) the defining or characteristic
nature of a thing and (c) the capacities or potentials inherent in a thing; (d) the final cause of
a thing’ (e) the formal cause of a thing and (f) substance and (g) the form of a thing and (h)
actuality and (i) culmination.290 These various usages, differing in what aspect of the concept
of ‘essence’ they emphasize, are related insofar as they all refer to those attributes, potential or
actual, which make a thing the kind of and particular thing it is. Everything we can discuss
has an essence which we can know insofar as human beings have the capacity to know it.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
There seems to be little question that the Bahá’í Writings see all existing things endowed
with an essence as described by Aristotle. In The Kitáb-i-ˆqán Bahá’u’lláh tells us that “the
light of divine knowledge and heavenly grace hath illumined and inspired the essence of all cre-
ated things, in such wise that in each and every thing [is] a door of knowledge.”291 In Gleanings
from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, Bahá’u’lláh states that “it becometh evident that all things,
in their inmost reality, testify to the revelation of the names and attributes of God within
them. Each according to its capacity, indicateth, and is expressive of, the knowledge of God.”292
In this quotation, the essence or “inmost reality”293 of a thing is defined by its capacity or
potentiality to “testify to the revelation of the names and attributes of God.”294 The concept
of essence as capacity is in perfect harmony with Aristotle’s basic position. The Writings
specifically mention that each of the following has an essence: God295; the human soul296;
humankind297; belief in Divine Unity298; justice299; “all created things”300 beauty301; species
of living things302; truth303; religion304; “this new age”305; and the spirit.306 On the basis of
such a wide array of references to ‘essence’ it is, in my view, safe to say that the existence of
essences is an important point of agreement between Aristotle and the Bahá’í Writings.
Indeed, these references to the essence are even more wide-spread once we realize that such
phrases as “inmost reality”307; “the realities of”308; “reality of”309; “inner reality,”310 and
“inner realities”311 also refer to the essence of things. This connection is further emphasized
by the parallel usage seen in the references to the “inmost essence”312 of things.
In addition to being pervasive, the terms ‘essence’ and “inmost reality” are used in a manner
that is not only consistent with but also combines several, if not all, of Aristotle’s usages into
one. Take, for example, the following statement:
(1) Upon the inmost reality of each and every created thing He hath shed the light of one
of His names, and made it a recipient of the glory of one of His attributes. (2) Upon the
reality of man, however, He hath focused the radiance of all of His names and attributes,
and made it a mirror of His own Self . . . (3) These energies with which the Day Star of
Divine bounty and Source of heavenly guidance hath endowed the reality of man lie, how-
ever, latent within him, even as the flame is hidden within the candle and the rays of light
are potentially present in the lamp.313
In these statements we can detect all of Aristotle’s uses of the term ‘essence.’ The first state-
ment shows the term being used as a reference to (a) the non-accidental attributes of a thing or
substance and (b) its defining characteristic and therefore, (c) its form as well as (d) the formal
cause of that substance. Because the formal cause requires (e) a final cause, we can say that the
latter is included by logical implication. In the second statement, which is really a re-statement
of the first with particular focus on humankind, we can detect the additional sense of ‘essence’
as actuality and culmination, that is, the emphasis on the undeniable existence of humankind
as the culminating point of phenomenal reality. Finally, in the third statement, we see
‘essence’—the attributes of God which are also “energies”314—portrayed as potentials or poten-
cies “latent”315 in us and are waiting to be moved from “from potentiality into actuality.”316
We could also repeat this analysis for Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that “[f]rom that which hath been
said it becometh evident that all things, in their inmost reality, testify to the revelation of the
names and attributes of God within them. Each according to its capacity, indicateth, and is
expressive of, the knowledge of God”317 where we especially notice the attention drawn to
“inmost reality”318 as “capacity”319 or potential (which is another key Aristotelian term) as well
as to how the phrase “[e]ach according to its capacity”320 shows capacity or essential potential
defining a thing as the kind of thing it is.
In light of what we have learned, it seems impossible to escape the conclusion that the Bahá’í

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
Writings espouse some form of essentialism, although at this point, the exact nature of this
essentialism requires further study and exploration. This conclusion is also supported, as we
shall see, by Bahá’í and Aristotelian ethics. Given the already noted division of nature into the
mineral, vegetable, animal, human and supernatural realms, it cannot be denied that the Bahá’í
world picture divides phenomenal creation into kinds, each with their essential endowments of
God’s attributes and consequently, natural and appropriate behaviors. These kinds are further
divided into individuals who are or are not appropriate exemplars of their kind.
5.7) Essences and Epistemology
According to Aristotle321 what we know of a thing is its universal form, its universal essence
or “formula”322 to use Aristotle’s example, we recognize the form of ‘circular’ in a particular
bronze circle but we must recall that while there is a formula for a circle and a formula for
bronze, there is no formula or definition for this particular bronze circle. It is only recognized
by the aid of “intuitive thinking or of perception.”323 As he writes, “It is not possible to define
any thing, for definition is of the universal and of the form.”324 This formula or definition is
known by the attributes manifested by specific examples but the particular itself is not known
in and as itself: “matter is unknowable in itself.”325 This position does not differ significantly
from what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá means when He says,
Know that there are two kinds of knowledge: the knowledge of the essence of a thing, and
the knowledge of its qualities. The essence of a thing is known through its qualities, oth-
erwise it is unknown and hidden.326
Not only does this passage show yet again that attributes are real and provide real knowl-
edge, but it also tells us that the essence of a particular thing is not completely known. In other
words, all human knowledge is about universals and forms, but cannot extend to the knowl-
edge of the essence of a particular thing. As Aristotle says, “there is neither definition of nor
demonstration about sensible, individual substances.”327 Aristotle relegates the knowledge of
particulars to “opinion”328 and, although he does not explicitly say so, he, like the Bahá’í
Writings, would have to admit that only God is capable of knowing particulars in-themselves,
that is, the individual essence.
However, this cannot logically be taken to mean that the knowledge we obtain from the
attributes and qualities is (a) false or (b) inadequate for our phenomenal purposes or (c) arbi-
trary fictions or (d) absolutely relative. In other words, while the Bahá’í world picture is divid-
ed in two, with a noumenal realm known only to God and phenomenal realm known to us via
attributes and qualities, this somewhat Kantian aspect of the Writings does not undermine the
adequacy or correctness of our knowledge for the phenomenal realm and of universals. If it did,
it would undermine science, which is a knowledge of universals in contrast to art which pro-
vides intuition of particulars. There is simply no logical reason to lead the Writings into rela-
tivistic wastelands seen in the work of some contemporary philosophers. Instead, the limita-
tions on our knowledge lay the foundation for a rational argument for the necessity of revela-
tion.
5.8) Potential
Another aspect of substance, ultimately related to essence,329 is potential. The word ‘poten-
tial’ does not refer to a mysterious little hidden ‘thingy,’ but rather to the fact that only a cer-
tain number of transformations can be made in a substance without destroying it as the sub-
stance it is. One can use a raincoat as a blanket, a book as an eye-shade and, with some man-
ual dexterity, a rose as a drinking cup: these are potentials that each of them has. However, no
amount of effort transforms a raincoat into a 800 pound gorilla, an book into a water-well or

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
a rose into a telephone. They simply lack the potential for that. In many ways, essences are sim-
ply a ‘cluster’ of potentials that define a kind and/or an individual. As something changes or
evolves—either moved internally or externally—its potentials are actualized or realized, that is,
its potentials are revealed and manifested. A rosebud blossoms to produce as beautiful fra-
grance; of their own nature, a raincoat and essay do not.
Now is also a good time to notice that raincoats, books and roses have different forms: in
fact, each of them is matter that has been given a certain form that allows it to be and do cer-
tain things. All substances are composed of matter and form which are not the same: the mat-
ter in the raincoat could have been given the form of an umbrella, the words in the book
arranged into a long metaphysical poem and the rose could have formed another kind of flower.
Like two sides of a coin, matter and form are distinct, but not separable: all matter has form
but which particular form it receives can vary. Matter also imposes potential limits on what
forms can be adopted: sheet metal cannot accept the form to become light bulbs or rodeo bulls.
5.9) Essences and Potentials
In previous discussions, we have seen the close connection between essence and the concept
of potentials. This connection is made even closer when we realize that an essence can also be
defined as the collection of potentials that distinguish a particular kind and/or individual
from other kinds and/or individuals. Humanity, for example, is endowed with and essentially
defined by its rational and spiritual capacities both as an individual and as a species or kind.
We must also bear in mind that potentials (and essences) are not little entities hidden in a sub-
stance like raisins in a bun. Rather they are (a) the ability or power to initiate or stop change
in oneself or another330 or (b) the ability to change into or be changed into something else or
be acted upon.331 To make use of the old proverb, a sow’s ear lacks the potential to be changed
into a silk purse. The lack of a particular potential or potency is a “privation.”332 All created
things suffer or exhibit absolute “privation” vis-à-vis God, and for this reason may be proper-
ly described as “utter nothingness.”333 This understanding allows a logical resolution to the
apparent contradiction between Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that we come from “utter nothing-
ness”334 and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s claim that nothing can come from absolute nothingness.335 As the
context makes clear, Bahá’u’lláh’s statements are in relation to “privation” or our ‘privative
natures’ vis-à-vis God whereas ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s assertions refer to substance and positive poten-
tials or capacity. No logical contradiction exists because the statements are about different sub-
jects. The concept of potentials also provides us with a rational interpretation of Bahá’u’lláh’s
statement that copper can be turned into gold and vice versa.336 The language of this passage,
for example, “lieth hidden,”337 “possible”338 and “can be turned,”339 clearly indicates this state-
ment is about potentials or capacities, which makes it a statement of scientific fact.
The belief that potentials or capacities define us essentially is plain when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says
that “although capacities are not the same, every member of the human race is capable of edu-
cation.”340 This asserts that we share individually different portions of the general species
capacity to learn. In both Aristotle and the Writings, these capacities are sometimes also por-
trayed as powers or abilities to act or be acted on.341 The connection between capacities, or
potentials and powers is plainly evident in the following quotation:
The ideal faculties of man, including the capacity for scientific acquisition, are beyond
nature’s ken. These are powers whereby man is differentiated and distinguished from all
other forms of life. This is the bestowal of divine idealism.342
As we can see, potentials are the powers or abilities that humankind possesses, indeed, are
the unique, that is, necessary characteristics that distinguish us from the rest of creation.

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
However, we must be careful to note that although the words ‘potential,’ ‘power,’ ‘potency’ and
‘potencies’ are used pervasively throughout the Writings, not all usages of the latter two refer
to potentials. For example, the description of God as “He, verily, through the potency of His
name, the Mighty”343 does not use ‘potency’ in the sense of ‘potential’ but rather in the sense
of an existing power. As a matter of fact, reading it as ‘potential’ would lead to the serious the-
ological error of ascribing potentials, that is, unactualized powers or attributes to God, and,
thereby characterizing the Divine as imperfect. We must, therefore, be careful to distinguish
between Aristotelian and non-Aristotelian uses of these terms. There are three other terms by
which to explore the subject of potentials in the Writings: the first is ‘latent,’ which is perva-
sively used.344 The second is “hidden” which is found in a similarly wide range of Bahá’í texts
referring to the concept of hidden—that is, potentially revealed or realized—qualities and their
manifestation either through divine revelation, through natural processes or through human
activity.345 The third is ‘realize’ which, when used philosophically instead of as a term for ‘to
understand suddenly,’ refers to the process by which the hidden or potential is made real, comes
to fruition or is revealed in the world of being.346
The importance of the concept of potentials for Aristotle and the Bahá’í Writings can hard-
ly be over-stated especially in an age in which the topic of change, and especially evolutionary
change, is so hotly debated. Both Aristotle’s and the Writing’s entire vision of change and
development depend on his belief that change—be it locomotion, increase, growth or decay is
the actualizing or realizing of hitherto invisible, hidden potentials. For this reason, they share
a common understanding of evolution which is not seen as the alteration of one species into
another but rather the successive actualization of hidden, unrealized potentials. This allows
both to argue that each species is a specific and original complex of potentials that were always
available or hidden in creation and that what appears to be the transformation of one species
into another is really the actualization of hitherto hidden potentials. (The underlying reason-
ing goes as follows. Among the alleged common ancestors of human and ape, outward similar-
ities notwithstanding, only one group had the potential to manifest a rational soul. This group
must have had this potential from the beginning because the concept of potentials leading to
new potentials involves an infinite regress and is, thereby, logically untenable. Here’s why.
Either an organism has the potential to manifest rationality, or it does not. If it does not, it
needs to acquire this potential (1) but to get this potential (1), it must first get the potential (2)
to get the potential (1), and then, in turn it needs to acquire potential (3) to get potential (2) to
get potential (1) and so on . . . If the organism turns out to already possess potential (3) to get
potential (2) to get potential (1), then the organism is obviously part of the distinct human
line.)
Thus, it is inaccurate to say that Aristotle and the Writings deny evolution. Rather, they re-
interpret the same data used by all anthropologists in terms of potentiality and conclude that
all evolution is the actualization or manifestation of previously hidden potentials. They dis-
agree with current scientific views but they are not out of harmony with science because there
is sound logical reasoning about potentials underlying their views.
5.10) Essence and Existence
The distinction between potential and actualization points to yet another point of agree-
ment between Aristotle and the Bahá’í Writings, namely the distinction between essence and
existence. As already noted, for Aristotle, the essence may be seen as the potentiality of a
thing: the identity of a hammer, for example, is constituted by all its potential uses that deter-
mine it can be employed as a prop to hold up a shelf of books as well as melted down to make
a steel plate and cup but not as a guard dog. Our actions are required to bring the hammer’s

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
various potentials into actuality, that is, to bring them into existence. In other words, for
Aristotle, existence is actualization: bringing something into existence means actualizing a
potential. The same is true in the Bahá’í Writings where we are brought into existence, that is,
are actualized or manifest from mere potentialities which are actualized when the right com-
bination of elements occurs. In The Promulgation of Universal Peace, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá asks, “Did
we not pray potentially for these needed blessings before we were created?”347 The word “cre-
ated”348 here must be read as meaning ‘actualized,’ ‘brought into appearance’ or ‘manifest’
because if we read it as meaning ‘brought into existence from absolute nothing,’ then ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá would be contradicting His own statements that
existence and nonexistence are both relative. If it be said that such a thing came into exis-
tence from nonexistence, this does not refer to absolute nonexistence, but means that its
former condition in relation to its actual condition was nothingness. For absolute noth-
ingness cannot find existence, as it has not the capacity of existence.349
Thus, for the Writings, as for Aristotle, to exist means to be actualized or to be manifest:
we do not really exist before the point of actualization although the potential for us exists
because, according to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, we cannot come into existence from absolute nothing.
Consequently, it follows that things do not come into manifest existence merely because they
have an essence, that is, merely because there is a potential for them to come into existence.
Existence does not necessarily or automatically follow from one’s potential for existing. It must
be provided by a special act—in Aristotle, the continued action of the Unmoved Mover, and,
in the Bahá’í case, the voluntary act of God Who chooses which potentials to actualize. In
other words, for a potential to come into existence requires an act from an entity that already
exists and is, thereby, able to take action which is something only existing entities can do. In
the Bahá’í view, this ‘entity’ is ultimately God, Who actualizes or provides existence to all
things other than Himself. Only God exists by virtue of His own nature, that is, only in God
are essence/potential and actualized existence one and the same. In short, it is not only God’s
nature to exist but also to exist as a perfectly actualized Being.
The distinction between essence/potential and existence is of supreme philosophical impor-
tance for both Aristotle and the Bahá’í Writings because it is the foundation for a Bahá’í exis-
tentialism. The core of existential philosophies is the belief that ‘existence’ precedes essence,’
although the meaning of this statement is variously interpreted. In all cases, however, existence
is a result of a distinct act, and theistic and atheistic existentialisms diverge on the issue of
whether God or the individual is ultimately responsible for this act. A Bahá’í existentialism
would, in a sense, have it both ways. As in theistic forms of existentialism, God is ultimately
responsible for the act that manifests a potential in the world, and, as in atheistic existential-
ism, it is the individual who creates his or her own ‘voluntary self’ by choosing which poten-
tials to actualize in this life. Indeed, the whole notion of our lives being a process of actual-
izing potentials leads us closer to the form of existentialism developed above all by Martin
Heidegger and Gabriel Marcel, although it bears affinities to Sartre’s existentialism as well.
Although this issue is explored more fully in my paper “The Call to Being: Introduction to a
Bahá’í Existentialism,” it is worthwhile to digress for a moment to make a few salient points
to demonstrate the versatility of the Bahá’í Writings and Aristotle. It is in my view, precisely
this versatility which led Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to retain whatever was useful in Aristotle
as the substratum of the Writings. For example, if our lives are a process of actualizing our
potential selves, certain consequences are unavoidable. Our lives are matters of perpetual
choice among possibilities—often based on little more than faith—in a world in which we face
the challenges of trying to relate to a God Who is essentially unknowable, as well as a world

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
made up of things whose essences we cannot know directly. We live, and choose, in a world of
essential mystery. Moreover, it also becomes evident that we are never completely ourselves
which means that self-alienation and estrangement, wonder, and mystery are inherently struc-
tured into our being. We are, since the Writings assert the existence of an after-life of per-
petual development and evolution, ladies and gentlemen ‘in waiting,’ and therefore, not sur-
prisingly, prone to ‘angst’ about our choices and their consequences. We are Marcel’s “homo
viator,” for ever in transit, for whom every moment is simultaneously an arrival and departure
and our only ‘rest’ is the journey itself. Moreover, we are intrinsically dissatisfied because we
are, and never can be, never fully and completely ourselves. We are is locked in a constant
struggle to become—or to avoid becoming—what we are not and our ‘nothingness’ always
haunts us. Indeed, we can become so overwhelmed by this struggle that we give up, act in ‘bad
faith,’ lose our individual being in the anonymity of the crowd and adopt a collective rather
than true-to-ourselves, personal identity. Then, we face the challenge of hearing the ‘call to
being’ and finding the power to answer it. We are always ‘in a situation’ and ‘in a world’; we
are concrete real beings, not abstract concepts, whose moods and attitudes present the world
and others to us in various ways and condition our ‘modes of being.’ Finally, the Writing’s
emphasis on the process of actualization and on our individual and social evolution to over-
come ourselves to help establish a more highly evolved form of humankind has clearly
Nietzschean overtones worthy of exploration. Readers even passingly familiar with existential
thought will recognize both the existential themes as well as authors alluded to in this para-
graph.
It may be objected that the Writings and Aristotle cannot be essentialist and existentialist
at the same time. However, this objection does not hold because of the individual’s free will to
choose which of his human and personal potentials to actualize, when, where, how and why.
Aristotelian essentialism does not do away with choice; it is not a form of ethical determinism.
What the Aristotelian insights confirmed by the Writings do is to provide an outline of the
nature and structure of being and specifically human being, a project in which they are not
fundamentally different than Being and Time, Being and Nothingness and The Mystery Of
Being. (Even Sartre who is most allergic to any suggestions of a general ‘human nature’ still
recognizes, and thereby contradicts himself by reserving for humankind the specific character
of “pour-soi” as distinguished from everything else which is “en-soi.” ) A Bahá’í existentialism
explores how we personally experience the nature and structure of human be-ing, and what this
experience means for us as individuals in the world.
5.11) Substance-Attribute Ontology
Closely associated with Aristotle’s concept of substance is the concept of attributes since
substances can only be known by the attributes they possess, a crucial fact explicitly stated in
the Bahá’í Writings: “Phenomenal, or created, things are known to us only by their attributes.
Man discerns only manifestations, or attributes.”350 This also applies to our knowledge of
God:
Inasmuch as the realities of material phenomena are impenetrable and unknowable and are
only apprehended through their properties or qualities, how much more this is true con-
cerning the reality of Divinity, that holy essential reality which transcends the plane and
grasp of mind and man?351
This issue is of far-reaching philosophical importance because it shows that the Bahá’í
Writings and Aristotle both share a substance-attribute analysis of existence or a substance-
attribute ontology and this, in turn, limits the kind of metaphysics and epistemologies to which

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
they can be logically allied. This is clearly evident from even a cursory examination of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s preceding quotations in which there are three points worthy of note. First, the proper-
ties are “their”352 properties; they belong to a particular created substance and are clearly not
arbitrary human constructs or ‘fictions’ imposed on them by the perceivers. The properties of
substances are not necessarily human impositions. Second, phenomenal things are known to us
through their attributes, from which it follows logically that these attributes provide real—
albeit, as seen above, limited—knowledge. However limited it may be, such knowledge is still
real knowledge about the substance possessing or manifesting the attributes. Third, this knowl-
edge comes to us directly from the substances by means of their attributes or properties which
we perceive. Such is precisely the import of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that “the mind is con-
nected with the acquisition of knowledge, like images reflected in a mirror.”353 In other words,
the mind perceives or reflects these attributes directly and immediately just a mirror directly
and immediately reflects whatever it faces.354 Just as humankind reflects the divine perfec-
tions,355 so the mind reflects the real attributes of the substances around it.
6) Logic and Rationality
This brings us to another major area of agreement between Aristotle and the Writings—the
belief that logical and rational inquiry, if correctly pursued, can provide true knowledge about
reality. In other words, as shown in far greater detail in my paper “Reason and the Bahá’í
Writings,”356 the Bahá’í Writings, like Aristotle, are committed to a moderate form of ratio-
nalism. Suffice it to say that as far as the Writings and Aristotle are concerned, logical thought
is based on the law of non-contradiction which can be expressed in various forms. The most
useful of these states that “A cannot be A and not-A at the same time in the same sense” or
that “A cannot have quality C and not have C at the same time in the same sense.” For exam-
ple, fire cannot be hot and cold at the same time in the same way. It is hot to us and cold in
comparison to the sun but it cannot be hot and cold to the sun simultaneously. To claim oth-
erwise is a logical self-contradiction because the two statements cancel each other out.
It is vital to note that the Writings do not use one kind of logic and reason in what ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá calls “logical” proofs” and another in what he calls “spiritual proofs.”357 The Writings do,
indeed, employ logic to pursue different kinds of arguments by various means (such as argu-
ment by analogy) but regardless of particular topic and application, all of the reasoning found
in the Writings follows the law of non-contradiction and the laws of logical reasoning follow-
ing from that. “Spiritual proofs,”358 using scripture as their premises and verification, follow
the same rules of reasoning as “logical” proofs. Only the applications vary, not the laws of logic
and reasoning. To illustrate this, let us examine an example of what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá calls a “spir-
itual proof”359:
Therefore it cannot be said there was a time when man was not. All that we can say is that
this terrestrial globe at one time did not exist, and at its beginning man did not appear
upon it. But from the beginning which has no beginning, to the end which has no end, a
perfect manifestation always exists. This man of whom we speak is not every man; we
mean the perfect man. For the noblest part of the tree is the fruit, which is the reason of
its existence; if the tree had no fruit, it would have no meaning. Therefore it cannot be
imagined that the worlds of existence, whether the stars or this earth, were once inhabit-
ed by the donkey, cow, mouse, and cat, and that they were without man! This supposition
is false and meaningless. The word of God is clear as the sun. This is a spiritual proof, but
one which we cannot at the beginning put forth for the benefit of the materialists; first
we must speak of the logical proofs, afterwards the spiritual proofs.360

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
It is important to notice that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá does not abandon the laws of logic simply because
He is providing a “spiritual proof.”361 In fact, His argument is so logically rigorous that it can
be presented as two syllogisms as invented by Aristotle.
(1) All created things need a final cause (reason to exist) to exist.
(2) The universe is a created thing.
(3) Therefore, the universe needs a final cause to exist.
and
All created things need a final cause (reason to exist) to exist.
(2) The perfect man is the final cause of the universe which has always existed.
(3) Therefore, the perfect man has always existed.
However, I must point out that I am not saying the Bahá’í Faith is a purely rationalist reli-
gion in which the heart, intuition, faith, mysticism and revelation have no place. Quite the
opposite. The structure of the philosophy embedded in the Writings is architectonic: one level
builds on another in a step by step fashion until we reach the pinnacle of knowledge and under-
standing, namely the recognition of Bahá’u’lláh as the Manifestation for this age and the object
of all knowledge.362 Rational, philosophic knowledge forms the foundation this structure.
However, to actualize its full potential, reason needs the Holy Spirit, i.e. divine grace and
inspiration:
He must also impart spiritual education, so that intelligence and comprehension may pen-
etrate the metaphysical world, and may receive benefit from the sanctifying breeze of the
Holy Spirit, and may enter into relationship with the Supreme Concourse.363
and
But the bounty of the Holy Spirit gives the true method of comprehension which is infal-
lible and indubitable. This is through the help of the Holy Spirit which comes to man, and
this is the condition in which certainty can alone be attained.364
In other words, while we may begin with reason, reason alone cannot reach the heights of
knowledge. The supra-rational ways of knowing, that is, intuition, feeling, and mystical expe-
riences empowered and guided by the Holy Spirit as manifest in the Writings and Institutions,
is necessary to complete our rational knowledge. In other words, the philosophy embedded in
the Writings has an architectonic structure that accommodates rational and supra-rational
knowledge.
Philosophically, this means the Bahá’í Faith is a variant of moderate rationalism. To discov-
er what this means, we must ask ourselves the all important question, “How much can reason
or logic tell us?” There are three possible answers: everything; some things; nothing.
Rationalists in their various versions and incarnations believe that reason and logic can tell us
everything that is worthy of being called ‘truth’ or knowledge. Today’s positivists belong in
this camp. These are the champions of what they call the ‘scientific method’ and they refuse to
accept as truth any statement that cannot be explained and proven by experiment, logical
explanation and/or Popper’s falsifiability principle. They do not believe that there is any limit
to the power of logical explanation and, therefore, whatever cannot be explained logically is
“non-sense.”
At the opposite extreme are skeptics and many forms of post-modernist philosophy which,
for various reasons do not believe that reason and logic can give us any truth at all. Indeed, the
hard skeptics deny that there is any such thing as ‘Truth’ in any objective sense, and the soft

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
skeptics, while willing to admit that such a ‘Truth’ might exist, deny that human beings can
ever know it. Both positions are logically self-refuting. To say ‘There is no ‘Truth’ in effect
asserts there is at least one ‘Truth,’ namely, that there is none! Unfortunately, this fundamen-
tal flaw has never hindered skeptics from advancing their arguments.
Between the two extremes are the moderate rationalists who assert that reason can tell us
some things but not everything. The challenge, of course, is to identify what reason can and
cannot tell us. This position leaves plenty of scope for the power of reason but also recognizes
that reason alone cannot tell us everything, thereby leaving room for other modes of knowing
and, above all, revelation. This is the Bahá’í position, but one which the Faith shares with
Aristotle although he never developed this aspect of his philosophy to any great extent. He
does, however, recognize that intuitive knowledge exists365 and recognizes that intuition rep-
resents a real though problematical avenue to knowledge.366 However, the existence of intu-
ition and “intuitive reason”367 is sufficient to render Aristotle a moderate rationalist, as is his
recognition that reason knows universal forms but not the particular essence of things as dis-
tinct from their universal or species essence. This conclusion is also supported in the Eudemian
Ethics, where Aristotle writes, “The starting point of reasoning is not reasoning, but some-
thing greater”368 which he explicitly identifies with “god.”369 He then goes on to explain that
a few, “called fortunate”370 have “inspiration”371 and have no need for “deliberation.”372 Finally,
there are also “the dreamers of what is true”373 who are more susceptible to the influence of
God, “the moving principle”374 “when the reasoning power is relaxed.”375
Readers will, of course, recognize that Aristotle’s belief in knowledge from the inspired “for-
tunate”376 and “dreamers of what is true”377 provides a small but nonetheless indisputable
opportunity to recognize the existence of Manifestations and prophets, that is, those who do
not depend entirely upon our usual perceptive and reasoning processes. Although he does not
develop these ideas to any great extent, he is prepared to recognize alternate sources of knowl-
edge and guidance for humankind.
7) Ethics
The similarities between Aristotle and the Bahá’í Writings extend beyond the theoretical wis-
dom of philosophical knowledge to the practical wisdom in ethics. Although one might expect
a system with divine revelation and one without to be dramatically different, the truth is that
while differences exist, the underlying structures are virtually identical. That is because both
systems share three fundamental premises. The first is that happiness is the final goal of all
behavior and that ethical behavior is a means to that goal. Second, both agree that happiness
consists in the actualization of our highest potentials. The third area of agreement is that the
acquisition and practice of virtues is the best means to the highest possible self-actualization.
Whatever other agreements and differences may exist between the two ethical systems, they are
essentially compatible because they are built on the same foundation.
7.1) Happiness as the Final Goal
Let us now examine these positions in more detail. In both the Eudemian Ethics and
Nichomachean Ethics, Aristotle asserts that happiness is the final goal for which all human
beings strive: “Happiness is at once the pleasantest and the fairest and best of all things what-
ever.”378 This is because it is what “we choose always for itself, and never for the sake of some-
thing else”379 which means that other goals are really no more than means to achieve happiness.
This, of course, is where other systems may disagree and see righteousness, living in good faith
or personal salvation as the final goals by which to assess behavior. However, Bahá’u’lláh makes
the Bahá’í position clear when He says, “We desire but the good of the world and the happiness

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
of the nations”380 which is emphasized when He writes, “whatsoever are the effective means
for safeguarding and promoting the happiness and welfare of the children of men have already
been revealed by the Pen of Glory.”381 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá supports this when He states, “In this way
the primary purpose in revealing the Divine Law—which is to bring about happiness in the
after life and civilization and the refinement of character in this—will be realized.”382
Elsewhere He says, “The primary purpose, the basic objective, in laying down powerful laws
and setting up great principles and institutions dealing with every aspect of civilization, is
human happiness; and human happiness consists only in drawing closer to the Threshold of
Almighty God.”383 These beliefs are succinctly encapsulated in the assertion that “Bahá’u’lláh
has brought you divine happiness.”384
Having established that happiness is the final end of ethics, we are now in a position to
examine the chief means of attaining it. At this point the influence of their hierarchical cos-
mic world picture and potential-actuality metaphysic begins to make itself felt. According to
Aristotle, every kind of creation has its own proper happiness based on its essential nature:
“Each animal is thought to have its proper pleasure, as it has a proper function; viz., that which
corresponds to its activity.”379 In other words, some activities are appropriate to the animal’s
essential nature and these activities promote genuine happiness. From this we may conclude
that while all of an animal’s activities may be natural, they are not all appropriate to its essen-
tial nature. To take an example from the farm: it is natural for a donkey to mate, but it is not
appropriate for a donkey to try mating with a cow. In humans, this distinction between the nat-
ural and the appropriate becomes even more pronounced and has a profound impact on our
understanding of what activities are proper to our nature. For example, sexuality is a natural
part of our human nature, but not all expressions of sexuality are appropriate to our essence.
Many of today’s attitudes on this subject are based on conflating and confusing these two
vitally different categories. The Bahá’í Writings, of course, clearly recognize this distinction
between the natural and the appropriate as shown for example in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá‘s amusement at
the materialist philosophers whose epistemologies are no different than a cow’s.385 His point
is that such epistemologies while natural are also inappropriate to the human essence because
they ignore reason and the existence of a spiritual soul.
7.2) Happiness as Appropriate Actualization
However, it take more than appropriate pleasures for a being, and especially a human being,
to achieve happiness which, according to Aristotle is not just an “activity,”386 nor even activ-
ity in accordance with virtue387 but rather activity “in accordance with the highest virtue.”388
Now, the appropriate virtue of a thing obviously depends upon its essential nature and the
essential nature that all things, and especially all living things have in common is the drive to
exist in the most perfect and complete state possible, that is to say, all things strive to self-actu-
alize, to move from potency to act, or, to make their potentials actual. Aristotle notes that
happiness comes in “activities in accordance with our human estate”389 or nature, and connects
actualization with happiness in his claim that “philosophic wisdom”390 produces happiness by
being actualized within a person. This activity actualizes our highest, specifically human,
potential and, thereby, cannot help but bring supreme happiness. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá expresses a sim-
ilar idea when he says, “All the virtues which have been deposited and potential in human hearts
are being revealed from that Reality as flowers and blossoms from divine gardens. It is a day
of joy, a time of happiness, a period of spiritual growth.”391 The same point is made in his
statement that “Through the infusion of divine power all nations and peoples become quick-
ened, and universal happiness is possible.”392 The new measure of self-actualization inspired
by the new Manifestation is precisely what makes our times happy despite the obvious diffi-

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
culties; humankind is constantly actualizing and revealing new potentials both within itself
and in the material world. The importance of the self-actualization ethic is also seen in the
emphasis on the need for women to actualize all their powers as part of a general global self-
actualization. We may sum this all up by saying that the Bahá’í Writings and Aristotle share
an ethic of conscious self-actualization that sees development and growth—not mere personal
comfort and ease—as the signs of true happiness. Indeed, one may be quite uncomfortable but
nonetheless supremely happy because one is truly growing and developing.
What, we may ask, is this highest virtue by which humankind can achieve happiness?
According to Aristotle’s Eudemian Ethics, which is a more religiously oriented work than the
Nichomachean Ethics, what is best for us is whatever “will most produce the contemplation of
god”393 a statement that is remarkably close to the Bahá’í Noonday Prayer which asserts that we
were created “to know [God] and to worship [Him].” He then defines as bad anything “that
through deficiency or excess hinders one from the contemplation and service of god.”394
However, even in the less spiritual Nichomachean Ethics, he notes that the highest activities
“take thought of things noble and divine”395 and remarks that contemplation is superior to
action because contemplation can be carried our more continuously.396 Ultimately, he awards
contemplation the laurel as the highest virtue and the source of “perfect happiness.”397 As
already seen, the Noonday Prayer, also gives contemplation, the knowing and worshipping of
God, an enormously high place as does ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that “there is a sign (from God)
in every phenomenon: the sign of the intellect is contemplation.”398 Indeed, one can make a
very good case that in the Bahá’í Writings, as in Aristotle, the theoretical virtues of knowing
and contemplation take priority over practical action:
Although a person of good deeds is acceptable at the Threshold of the Almighty, yet it is
first “to know,” and then “to do.” . . . The lamp is lighted, but as it hath not a conscious
knowledge of itself, no one hath become glad because of it. Moreover, a soul of excellent
deeds and good manners will undoubtedly advance from whatever horizon he beholdeth
the lights radiating. Herein lies the difference: By faith is meant, first, conscious knowl-
edge, and second, the practice of good deeds.399
‘Abdu’l-Bahá makes the reason for the priority of knowing clear: doing is something we have
in common with inanimate matter as well as animals, but “conscious knowledge”400 is unique
to humankind.
7.3) The Acquisition of Virtues
In the foregoing discussion, we have already seen how the actualization of our highest attrib-
utes is essential to our happiness as human beings distinct from animals. This suggests, of
course, that Aristotle and the Writings espouse a teleological ethics, in which “[w]hat conduces
to the attainment of his good or end will be a ‘right’ action on man’s part.”401 The good that
humankind is to attain is the happiness appropriate to our specifically human nature. All this,
however, still leaves us with the question as to the best way to achieve this goal. Here too,
Aristotle and the Bahá’í Writings essentially agree that the best way to achieve our specifical-
ly human happiness is to acquire and practice the highest virtues appropriate to our highest
nature. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “The honor allotted to man is the acquisition of the supreme
virtues of the human world. This is his real happiness and felicity.”402 Although Aristotle never
explicitly says so, that he shares the same view is clearly seen in the contempt in which he holds
for example, the “incontinent” and “brutish type,”403 that is, those who live more according to
their lower animal selves than their specifically human selves which is at least partially
“divine.”404

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
This belief in the “acquisition of the supreme virtues”405 clearly distinguishes Bahá’í and
Aristotelian ethics from more subjective ethical systems that view as supreme such things as
‘truth to oneself’ or ‘sincerity’ or ‘living in good faith.’ In other words, the Bahá’í and
Aristotelian systems are more objective insofar as they set external standards that should be
met regardless of how one personally feels about them. Personal feelings must often be set
aside in the quest for the morally good life since they are not necessarily accurate guides.
Furthermore, because of their beliefs about the essential nature of humankind, they maintain
there are objective, universally applicable moral standards consonant with the actualization of
our specifically human potentials. This also means that there can, in fact, be a science of ethics
based on our knowledge of human potentials and how they are best actualized. Neither
Aristotle nor the Writings see ethics as a purely subjective endeavor in which any and all view-
points are equally valid. We must not, of course, see this as a call to intolerance but rather learn
to distinguish tolerance and approval. Tolerating a belief or practice does not mean that one
approves of, or agrees with it; instead, one is simply prepared to allow another person to
choose to make an error because of a fundamental respect for personal freedom.
It bears adding that neither Aristotle nor the Bahá’í Writings espouse a naturalistic ethic,
that is, an ethic that views surrounding nature and ‘the natural’ as the ideal for which humans
must strive. To the contrary, our chief ethical task is to actualize our specifically human poten-
tials and not to immerse ourselves in the nature we share with animals and plants. To para-
phrase the heroine of The African Queen, we are here to rise above nature not to sink our-
selves in it. However, we must not think of Aristotle and the Writings as anti-nature; they are
not. Rather, their ethics focus on our specifically human nature, which, like a tree has its roots
in the soil but rises far above it.
The two systems are also distinguished by their emphasis on a rational moderation in all
things. “In all matters moderation is desirable. If a thing is carried to excess, it will prove a
source of evil”406 Bahá’u’lláh tells us, and Aristotle, of course, is well known for his doctrine
of virtue as the golden mean between extremes.407 Another aspect of moderation is balance
which is lauded by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.408 As well, the two systems agree in their emphasis on ratio-
nal choice (NE, III, 1112a), that is, choice that is truly free because it is informed, voluntary,
and follows principles of reasoning. This belief underlies the Bahá’í Writings’ stress on the
independent search for truth for no one can be truly informed, free or rational simply by imi-
tating ancestors. They also agree that “all who are not maimed as regards their potency for
virtue may win it by a certain kind of study and care.”409 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá exhorts us to “train
their children with life and heart and teach them in the school of virtue and perfection.”410
7.4) Acquisition of Virtue and Free Will
It goes almost without saying and needs no more than mere notation that on the basis of
their beliefs about the actualization of potentials, Aristotle and the Bahá’í Writings agree on
the important issue of freedom of will.411 Both believe in freedom of will since, without such
freedom, no rational ethical system is possible: after all, we cannot be held personally respon-
sible for acts we are compelled to do or which we do in ignorance.
Contrary to appearances, there is no contradiction between the “acquisition of virtues”412 by
learning and habituation and the principle of free choice, since both Aristotle and the Bahá’í
Writings expect us to understand and utilize the rational logic on which the virtues are based.
They are not simply arbitrary impositions and limitations of human freedom but serve a ratio-
nal purpose which, in both cases, is to facilitate personal happiness and the good in commu-
nity life from which the individual inevitably benefits. Both the Bahá’í Writings and Aristotle

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
recognize that humankind is social in nature and that we cannot live happily, that is, actual-
izing our various potentials in accordance with our highest capacities, as solitary creatures. As
Aristotle says, “man is born for citizenship”413 in some state or community. We not only need
each other to survive but also to thrive, an indisputable fact that forms the rational touchstone
by which to test all ethical principles.
As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “Through association and meeting we find happiness and development,
individual and collective.414 If, therefore, someone asks why justice is an important individual
(and social) virtue, the rational answer is that injustice promotes divisions and conflicts that
undermine both individual actualization as well as the cohesiveness needed to make society
work for the good of all persons. Furthermore, in this light, for individuals to insist on their
right to act as they please regardless of personal and/or social consequences (“It’s my life.”) is
simply irrational.
In addition to our universal human potentials, we also possess our “haecceitas” or specific
individual essence, and that too has its own potentials needing actualization. These, however,
are secondary or lesser insofar as they are logically dependent on the existence of a universal
human essence of which they are variations. This hierarchy of essences leads to a hierarchy of
freedoms in Aristotle and the Bahá’í Writings. If we find ourselves in a conflict between actu-
alizing our personal preferences or the universal human essence, we are obligated to choose the
latter as the greater good. Our duty to be a good instantiation of the human essence—in Bahá’í
terms, for example, to actualize our spiritual selves over our animal nature—takes precedence
over our desire to please ourselves, a concept I call ‘objective freedom’ to distinguish it from
the ‘subjective freedom’ of merely pleasing oneself. It is important to note that the latter is not
denied but is simply not made absolutely and finally decisive on issues related to freedom. The
same principle will make itself felt in the relationships between the individual and the com-
munity as a whole.
7.5) Evil
The Bahá’í Writings and Aristotle also “deny the existence of any evil principle in the
world”415 or as Aristotle says,
Clearly, then, the bad does not exist apart from bad things; for the bad is in its nature pos-
terior to potency. And therefore we may also say that in the things which are from the
beginning i.e. in eternal things, there is nothing bad, nothing defective, nothing pervert-
ed (for perversion is something bad).416
In short, the Divine does not create an imperfect product. Moreover, when Aristotle says
that “the bad is in its nature posterior to potency,”417 he means that evil does not even have
potential existence because it is something that can logically only come after potentials have
been created in the first place and have begun their actualization process. Like a shadow, it is
not a potency but a mere accidental “by-product of the world-process,”418 a failure and not a
positive reality.
In other words, both Aristotle and the Writings agree that in itself, creation is perfect. For
His part, Bahá’u’lláh tells us that “So perfect and comprehensive is His creation that no mind
nor heart, however keen or pure, can ever grasp the nature of the most insignificant of His
creatures”419 and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá approvingly quotes a philosopher who says “There is no greater
or more perfect system of creation than that which already exists.”420 “In creation there is no
evil; all is good”421 says Abdu’l-Bahá, and compares evil to a shadow or darkness which has no
reality or substance in itself but exists only as the lack or privation of some good:

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
All that God created He created good. This evil is nothingness; so death is the absence of
life. When man no longer receives life, he dies. Darkness is the absence of light: when there
is no light, there is darkness.”422
However, if creation is, in itself, perfect, what is evil and how does it originate? Put into
Aristotelian terms, evil is the failure to properly develop the appropriate potential perfections
that are latent in all created things. It is, to continue ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s analogy, the shadow of a
good that should have been actualized but is not. In other words, evil is a “by-product”423
insofar as it happens when, for whatever reason, created things fail to actualize their potentials
properly. It is a misdevelopment whose occurrence depends on the universal potency for good
but either stops short and/or twists (perverts) that good away from its intended, natural end.
Obviously, evil cannot apply to the Divine since It is not subject to the process of actualiza-
tion.
This view of evil as a diversion from a sought for good makes itself felt throughout the
Bahá’í Writings. For example, it provides a rational explanation for the Báb’s prayer that “All
are His servants and all abide by His bidding”: in Aristotelian terms, all created things do seek
the good, that is, “abide by [God’s] bidding” in seeking to actualize their potentials, though, of
course, all do not do so in the way intended. This is especially true of humans who are capa-
ble of ‘sin,’ that is, consciously and knowingly seeking their own, lesser good over the greater
good demanded by God. Relative to God’s greater good, the lesser good is ‘evil’ which means
that even wrong-doers, while subjectively intending the good as such, pursue the lesser good
by deficient means. This view of evil is also the rational basis of the “world-embracing”424
vision for which Bahá’ís strive since the wide diversity of actions and beliefs are often no more
than different means of gaining universal goals. This Aristotelian perspective on evil obvious-
ly also provides a foundation for belief in the eventual unification of humankind in a com-
monwealth which will reconcile universal agreement on ends with a wide diversity of means.
The concept of evil as a failure of actualization leads, naturally, to the concept of a univer-
sal natural morality and a universal natural law, two concepts integral to the establishment of
a truly unified global commonwealth. Any ethical system that allows us to actualize our spe-
cific potentials as human beings is thereby ‘natural’ and ‘moral.’ Moreover, because human
nature or human essence is universal, it is possible to devise a single moral code of goals applic-
able to all human beings in all times and places. Since this code is based on our universal
human essence bestowed on us by God, it can also become the basis of a system of global nat-
ural laws and rights. Whatever interferes with this actualization is not only morally evil but
should also be illegal for being contrary to the natural law of our being.
7.6) Agreement on Particular Virtues
Given such far-reaching foundational similarities in their ethical systems, it is not surprising
that Aristotle and the Bahá’í Writings agree on the importance of a wide variety of particular
virtues. For example, Aristotle and the Writings place an enormous premium on justice as one
of the essential virtues. Bahá’u’lláh tells us that “O Son of Spirit! The best beloved of all things
in My sight is Justice.”425 Furthermore, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá specifically writes about “industrial jus-
tice”426 emphasized by Aristotle as ‘distributive justice’427 which distributes goods and other
rewards according to merit so that proper proportion will not be lost and some will have excess
while others have not enough. As Aristotle says, “injustice is excess and defect.”428 The con-
cept of distributive justice remarkably resembles Bahá’u’lláh’s Teaching that there should be no
extremes of wealth and poverty, that is, wealth and poverty should be properly proportion-
ate.429

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
Aristotle also believes that “rectificatory”430 justice “restores equality”431 which reflects the
close association in the Bahá’í Writings between justice and equality.432 Both also agree on the
importance of temperance and moderation 433; liberality or generosity434; honor and nobili-
ty435 and proper leisure, that is, leisure appropriate to our specifically human nature.436 The
range of specific agreements between the two is enormously wide as shown by the following
samples: the importance of music in character education437; the importance of suppressing
swearing and foul language438; rational liberty439 or “true liberty”440; majority rule limited by
considerations of fairness441; equality of all citizens442 and the primacy of good character.443
As Aristotle says, “a good man may make the best even of poverty and disease and the other
ills of life.”444 In other words, poverty or adverse circumstances are no excuse for unworthy
behaviors, an idea expressed by Bahá’u’lláh when He says,
Be generous in prosperity, and thankful in adversity. Be worthy of the trust of thy neigh-
bor, and look upon him with a bright and friendly face. Be a treasure to the poor, an
admonisher to the rich, an answerer of the cry of the needy, a preserver of the sanctity of
thy pledge. Be fair in thy judgment, and guarded in thy speech. Be unjust to no man, and
show all meekness to all men. Be as a lamp unto them that walk in darkness, a joy to the
sorrowful, a sea for the thirsty, a haven for the distressed, an upholder and defender of the
victim of oppression. Let integrity and uprightness distinguish all thine acts.445
However, the similarities between the two ethical systems go still further than this. For
starters, both put an enormously high value on friendship and especially on friendship with vir-
tuous people.446 Indeed, in language reminiscent of Baha’u’llah,447 Aristotle asserts that
friends should ideally be “a single soul”448 and devotes all of books VIII and IX of the
Nichomachean Ethics to this subject. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá points out that friendship can even reform
the world: “Thus may we live in the utmost friendship and love, and in return the favors and
bounties of God shall surround us; the world of humanity will be reformed; mankind, enjoy a
new life; eternal light will illumine, and heavenly moralities become manifest.”449 This quota-
tion is especially significant because it clearly and unequivocally links individual friendship to
its social consequences beyond the person. Personal and social ethics are clearly connected and
cannot be regarded separately, something to which Aristotle would agree. The importance of
friendship among Bahá’ís is also emphasized by the practice of referring to each other as
‘friends.’
8) Statecraft
It is a short step from the notion that individual virtue and social life are intimately con-
nected to the adoption of a positive, non-minimalist theory of community and state neither of
which are mere aggregates of individuals seeking their best interests. Nor are they mere neu-
tral environments for personal action. Both community and state exist specifically “for the
sake of a good life”450 and, therefore, have a positive role to play in fostering this good life for
all members. This is possible because while individual preferences may differ, the fact remains
that we all share in an essential and universal human nature, for example, as rational beings
whose souls have a divine and immortal part. In other words, there are some goods that are
universally good, even though some individuals may choose to reject or neglect them just as
some reject and neglect a healthy life style of good diet and exercise. One might also make this
point by saying that the state or community does not exist merely as a referee to monitor indi-
vidual actions, nor as a mere facilitator of individual choices. Rather, it exists as an active pro-
moter of a particular vision of the good life, defined in this case as the appropriate actualiza-
tion of our specifically human attributes. This should not, of course, be interpreted as any-

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
thing other than that Aristotle and the Bahá’í Writings advocate a moderate position between
the two extremes of the cradle-to-grave ‘nanny-state’—let alone any form of totalitarianism—
and a laissez-allez community that is no more, and often less, than a referee.
The existence of a universal human nature enables Aristotle and the Bahá’í Writings to envi-
sion a universally valid and global morality and hierarchy of values with contemplation form-
ing the apex for Aristotle and knowing and loving God the apex for Bahá’ís. This does not
mean that individuals should not please themselves451 but they should do so within rational
bounds which take the communal good into consideration. In Aristotle, this follows from the
fact that the happiness of the individual and the community or state “are the same,”452 a notion
that is implicit, for example, in the Bahá’í emphasis on the maintenance of unity even amidst
disagreement as the best way of serving both the individual and the community.
8.1) The Active State
Since the community and state exists for the sake of the good life, it follows logically that
they must take positive action to promote it. In the Bahá’í Writings this is evident from the
list of duties assigned to individual Bahá’ís to foster this goal as well as in the duties prescribed
to Local and National Spiritual Assemblies both now and in the future. For Aristotle, the high-
est good of the state or community as well as for individuals is “the life of virtue”453 which
requires “external goods enough for the performance of good actions.”454 His devotes the
entirety of Book V of Politics to the subject of revolution and their causes in the state’s fail-
ure to live up to its raison d’être and spends Book VI discussing the various ministries need-
ed for the state to promote the good life.
8.2) The Organic State
Another significant issue on which the Bahá’í Writings and Aristotle agree is the organic
nature of human community or state. Aristotle tells us that “the state, as composed of unlikes
may be compared to the living being,”455 that is, a unity composed of differences, or, as Bahá’ís
say, “unity in diversity.” Moreover, not only do the Writings specifically refer to the “organic
unity of the whole commonwealth,”456 they also continuously stress this idea by continuously
using tree imagery in regards to humankind and the human community. In the words of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, “Be as one spirit, one soul, leaves of one tree, flowers of one garden, waves of one
ocean.”457 He also says,
The Blessed Beauty saith: ‘Ye are all the fruits of one tree, the leaves of one branch.’ Thus
hath He likened this world of being to a single tree, and all its peoples to the leaves there-
of, and the blossoms and fruits. It is needful for the bough to blossom, and leaf and fruit
to flourish, and upon the interconnection of all parts of the world-tree, dependeth the
flourishing of leaf and blossom, and the sweetness of the fruit.458
There are two important and far-reaching consequences of this view. First, the organic view
of community suggests a strong commitment to proper order and hierarchy not only political-
ly but cosmologically. At the cosmic level this is evident in the fact that for Aristotle, God
orders the world by being the “object of desire,”459 a fact that flatly denies Keven Brown’s claim
that Aristotle saw the universe as “self-ordering.”460 Indeed, the importance of order both in
cosmic stasis and change and in politics need hardly be emphasized in the case of Aristotle,
who wrote extensively on the causes and cures for revolution and anarchy (Politics, V) and who
advises that “in well-attempted governments there is nothing that should be more jealously
guarded than the spirit of obedience to law.”461 The existence of hierarchy and the maintenance
of order is also strongly advocated in the Bahá’í Writings:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
Your nails and eyes are both parts of your bodies. Do ye regard them of equal rank and
value? If ye say, yea; say, then: ye have indeed charged with imposture, the Lord, my God,
the All-Glorious, inasmuch as ye pare the one, and cherish the other as dearly as your own
life.
To transgress the limits of one’s own rank and station is, in no wise, permissible. The
integrity of every rank and station must needs be preserved.462
8.3) Rational Freedom and Rights
Second, we can see that because of this commitment to hierarchy and order, both Aristotle
and the Bahá’í Writings, while not denying that freedom has its rightful place, are also aware
that it has limits. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, the will of the majority must prevail in consultation463
and the minority must accept the majority without engaging in sedition lest the whole com-
munity suffer. For his part, Aristotle informs us that “Every man should be responsible to oth-
ers, not should anyone be allowed to do just as he pleases; for where absolute freedom is
allowed there is nothing to restrain the evil which is inherent in every man.”464 Bahá’u’lláh
reminds us that we must seek “true liberty”465 which must not be confused with the seditious
liberty of animals.466 The freedom of individuals must be balanced with the demonstrable
good of the whole community; neither individual nor communal ‘rights’ are ever simply a the-
oretical question to be regarded without paying heed to the consequences. They must not mere-
ly be exercised but exercised rationally, that is, in light of our irrevocable membership in an
inter-dependent community striving to attain the good life for all.
Because the Bahá’í Writings and Aristotle believe that the good of the individual and the
community or state are one, they do not recognize the notion that there is an inherent con-
flict between the two. Neither Aristotle nor the Bahá’í Writings share the Rousseau-ist fantasy
of a ‘pure’ and ‘natural’ humankind living its proper life in the condition of nature, nor do they
recognize the so-called ‘noble savage’ living a better life because it is supposedly more natural.
Indeed, Aristotle specifically points out, “the state is a creation of nature”467 and is not an
artificial imposition upon humankind which somehow distorts our character. Of course, this
is not to say that the individual lives for the community. Rather, the two share the same inter-
ests and are there for each other like the two legs of a compass. From this, it follows that
Aristotle and the Writings do not feel any need for a ‘civil rights’ culture, a culture in which
individuals must constantly struggle to maintain their personal rights against the encroach-
ments of society. In the Bahá’í and Aristotelian viewpoints, the question is not if society has
the right to encroach but whether or not this supposed encroachment is for the rational, com-
mon good. If it is, then it is justifiable468 because the common good includes the good—
although not necessarily the preferences—of the individual.
9) A Difference Regarding God
Another vital difference between Aristotle and the Writings is that Aristotle does not rec-
ognize the active role of God, the Manifestations and the after-life in his ethical system.
However, from a Bahá’í point of view, this makes his system incomplete rather than mistaken.
The Divine simply does not play an active role in humanity’s ethical life other than as a goal
to emulate. There are, of course, differences of detail as well, such as Aristotle’s historically
conditioned emphasis on military courage469 which is not much mentioned in the Bahá’í
Writings. This is not to say that the Bahá’í Writings do not value courage, for indeed, they do
but the courage extolled is generally the courage of self-sacrifice470 and what Germans call
“civil courage,” that is, the courage to do and/or say necessary but very difficult things in daily
life.

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
10) Why the Aristotelian Foundation?
The preceding survey has, I believe, demonstrated that the Bahá’í Writings and the works of
Aristotle share a large number of significant similarities and shown that more could easily be
explicated in a study of greater length. At this point, it is important to re-iterate something
mentioned at the beginning of this paper, namely, that I do not claim that Aristotle influenced
Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Indeed, for religious reasons, I would deny such influence in the
case of the Manifestation since a Manifestation needs schooling from no one. From a Bahá’í
point of view, the most one can claim is that Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá confirmed and used
some—by no means all—Aristotelian ideas undoubtedly present in Muslim philosophical cul-
ture to express their teachings. However, I believe this choice is not a matter of mere happen-
stance; indeed, from a philosophical point of view, I believe there are at least two reasons why
Aristotle are a logically sensible choice for the philosophical substratum of the Bahá’í Writings.
In the first place, the Aristotelian substratum allows Bahá’í philosophy to ground itself on
common experience that is universal to humankind regardless of culture, time or place in his-
tory.
Aristotle builds his philosophy on ordinary experiences available to all human beings. No
matter where or when we live, and no matter how we choose to explain or interpret it, fire is
hotter than we are, triangles have three sides, plants grow, die and decay, no one is both phys-
ically alive and dead at the same time, two physical objects cannot occupy the same place at
the same time and everything has shape. Aristotle’s philosophy is founded on these simple,
indisputable, universal facts. We may even choose to try and explain these facts away, but in
order to do even this much, we must first recognize them. The bottom line is that they are sim-
ply inescapable and are universally recognized in daily behavior and practice even if, as occa-
sionally happens, ignored or disputed in theory. In my view, this universality is vital because it
under-writes Bahá’u’lláh’s injunction to investigate the truth for ourselves.471 Since this is a
spiritual and intellectual requirement for all Baha’is, it suggests that the truths of the Bahá’í
Writings must be accessible to all sincerely thoughtful people even though they lack especially
constructed laboratory experiences and special scholarly knowledge. Aristotle’s method of ana-
lyzing and reasoning about reality provides precisely that common experience and common
sense way of doing this, thereby making the Writings and their reasoning understandable to all.
This is not, of course, to deny or denigrate the value of specialized scholarship; however, it
seems obvious that in a religion where faith cannot be conditioned by anyone but ourselves472
that the basic truths about reality and religion must be accessible to common human experi-
ence, common sense and basic logical reasoning. Otherwise, discovery and knowledge of the
truth would be limited to and depend upon scholars and, thereby, diminish individuals’ respon-
sibility for themselves and possibly even open the door to the development of a ‘clergy.’ This
consonance with universal human experience make the portions of Aristotle’s philosophy con-
firmed by the Bahá’í Writings a reasonable basis on which to build a Bahá’í philosophy just as
they have already laid the foundation for significant portions of Jewish, Christian and Muslim
thought. In other words, the Aristotelian substratum allows our understanding of the Writings
to make contact with a wide variety of other traditions both ancient and modern.
The second advantage of an Aristotelian substratum is its incredible flexibility. As already
indicated, early philosophers found a way to graft Plato’s Ideas onto an Aristotelian stock and,
thereby, to develop the neo-Platonism important elements of which are confirmed in the
Writings.473 Just as significant is the fact that the Aristotelian aspects authenticated by the
Writings may be re-cast in an existentialist form and in terms of modern process philosophy
as most prominently exemplified by the work of Alfred North Whitehead. This means that the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
Aristotelian substratum does not trap the Writings in a so-called static metaphysic of substance
and, thereby, violate ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s assertions that “all things are in motion”474 and that “[t]his
state of motion is said to be essential—that is, natural; it cannot be separated from beings
because it is their essential requirement.”475
One of the two key areas of study in this regard is Aristotle’s concept of ‘substance’ which
must not be misunderstood—as happens, for example, in Locke—as a mysterious, vacuous,
material without any qualities of its own to which other attributes are attached like stick-pins.
Such at least is not Aristotle’s understanding. For Aristotle, a ‘substance’ is any individual thing
that can exist apart from other things; it has some degree of independence and God, the ulti-
mate substance, alone has absolute independence. In more formal language, a substance is any-
thing that is not a predicate of anything else.476 Nowhere here does Aristotle say that ‘sub-
stance’ must be a static physically material thing; the closest he comes to doing so is when he
describes it as “the ultimate substratum, which is no longer predicated of anything else.” This,
however, could just as well refer to a process. As William Christian points out, Aristotle is not
necessarily talking about matter at all but is simply trying to describe the experiential fact that
‘things’ have identifiable and “real individuality, self-existence and permanence which have
been elements in traditional interpretations of substance, [and] find expression in Whitehead’s
philosophy.”477 (As Christian notes, Whitehead is not nearly as blind to the stabilities in nature
as has often been claimed; Whitehead revises the concept of ‘substance’ rather than rejecting it
completely.) The long and the short of this issue is that Aristotle’s ‘substance’ can be re-inter-
preted as referring to a process exhibiting “real individuality, self-existence and [by way of rep-
etition] permance”478 which are the essential attributes of things that the concept of ‘substance’
is supposed to convey. A particular process—say a coal fire—has this “real individuality”479
insofar as it has its own qualities or attributes that distinguish it chemically from a gasoline
or electrical fire. It has “self-existence”480 because it has some independence from its sur-
roundings: it is unaffected by who or how many are watching it and the kind of furniture in
its presence. Finally, it exhibits “permanence,”481 that is, the processes that make up this fire
repeat themselves until this particular fire burns itself out. Thus, as Christian points out, a
process can have all the necessary attributes conveyed by the idea of ‘substance.’ While the con-
cept of ‘substance’ raises interesting metaphysical and theological questions for Bahá’ís, the use
of this concept does not lock the Writings into a static metaphysic.
We may approach this issue from yet another angle by examining the concept of ‘potentials.’
Like Veatch, we might choose to define ‘potentials’ as latent energies for changes.482
This leads to a line of reasoning that brings the Bahá’í Writings still closer to process phi-
losophy. Since one of Aristotle’s definitions of ‘substance’ is “the essence, the formula . . . of
each thing”483 and the essence of things is also identified with their potentials, we can discern
the following relationship: substance = essence; essence = potentials; potentials = latent ener-
gies and therefore, substance = latent energies. (If a = b and b = c, then a = c.) Here, too, we
can see a process view of ‘substance’ growing directly out of Aristotle. Our understanding of
the Writings will, undoubtedly, change in light of process philosophy but such a change may
simply be a part of our intellectual and spiritual evolution.
As Whitehead himself already pointed out, process philosophy brings philosophy closer to
the new quantum theories of sub-atomic reality. In other words, a process interpretation of the
Writings will facilitate a new re-approachment between science and religion, a development
that the Bahá’í Writings find highly desirable.

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
11) Practical Applications
After a study such as this it is only natural to ask if there are any practical applications of
this material. There are two positive answers to this. In the first place, there is a general answer
which applies to the study of philosophy in general. The study of philosophy affects the way in
which we see the world and our self-image, and, as psychology has shown, our world-view and
self-image have an immediate and direct impact on the way we live and on the things and peo-
ple that surround us. Contrary to first impressions, philosophy is ‘everybody’s business.’
Second, the Aristotelian substratum of the Writings has an enormous practical value because
on its basis we can develop a rational, common-sense apologetics by which to expound and
explicate the Bahá’í Faith as well as defend it against its detractors. Its common experience
foundations will make it easier to reach a wider variety of individuals and audiences in an age
of competing religious claims and the current aggressive postures of various fundamentalisms
whose only long term effect can be to keep humankind religiously fragmented. In other words,
an apologetics based on a common experience, common sense philosophy crowned with the
higher knowledge of revelation will allow not only Bahá’í philosophers but more importantly,
Bahá’í teachers to make significant strides in the progress of unifying this planet for
Bahá’u’lláh.
Bibliography
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1987.
———. Foundations of World Unity. n.p.: Immerse. Bernal Schooley, 1997.
———. Paris Talks. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,1971.
———. The Promulgation of Universal Peace. Second Edition. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.
———. The Secret of Divine Civilization. Trans. Marzieh Gail. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1957.
———. Selected Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
———. Some Answered Questions. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.
———. Star of the West. n.p.: Talisman Educational Software, 2001.
Allen, D.J. The Philosophy of Aristotle. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1970.
Aquinas, St. Thomas. Summa Theologica. Salem, Oregon: Harmony Media, CD-ROM, n.d.
Aristotle. Eudemian Ethics. Trans. J. Solomon. The Complete Works of Aristotle. Vol. 2. Bollingen Series
LXXXI. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1991.
———. Magna Moralia Trans St. G. Stock. The Complete Works of Aristotle. Vol. 2. Bollingen Series LXXXI.
Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1991.
———. Metaphysics. Trans. W.D. Ross. Aristotle Vol. I. Great Books of the Western World. Chicago:
Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1952.
———. Nichomachean Ethics. Trans. W.D. Ross. Aristotle Vol. II. Great Books of the Western World. Chicago:
Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1952.
———. On Generation and Corruption. Trans. H.H. Joachim. Aristotle Vol. 1. Great Books of the Western
World. Chicago: Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1952.
———. On the Heavens. Trans J.L. Stocks. Aristotle Vol. I. Great Books of the Western World. Chicago:
Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1952.
———. On the Soul. Trans. J.A. Smith. Aristotle Vol. I. Great Books of the Western World. Chicago:
Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1952.
———. Physics. Trans. R.P Hardie and R.K. Gaye. Aristotle Vol. I. Great Books of the Western World. Chicago:
Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1952.
———. Politics. Trans. Benjamin Jowett. Aristotle Vol. II. Great Books of the Western World. Chicago:
Encyclopaedia Britannica, 1952.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
Avicenna. Danish Nama-i-ala’i (The Book of Scientific Knowledge). Trans. Parviz Morewedge. New York:
Columbia University Press, 1973.
Baha’u’llah. Bahá’í World Faith. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1976.
———. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1979.
———. Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1976.
———. Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Immerse. n.p. : Bernal Schooley. 1997.
———. Kitáb-i-ˆqán. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1950.
———. Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh. n.p.: Immerse. Bernal Schooley, 1997.
———. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
———. The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1975.
Barnes, Jonathan. Ed. The Cambridge Companion to Aristotle. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1995.
Brown, Keven. Ed. Evolution and Bahá’í Belief. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 2001.
Christian, William. An Interpretation of Whitehead’s Metaphysics. New Hevn: Yale University Press, 1959.
Cope,
Theo.
“Neo-platonic
Framework
for
Bahá’í
Philosophy.”
www.bahai-
library.org/essays/neoplatonism.html
———. Re-Thinking, Re-Visioning, Re-Placing. Oxford: George Ronald, 2001.
Copelston, Frederick. A History of Philosophy, Vol. I, Pt. II. New York: Image Books, 1962.
Edel, Abraham. Aristotle and His Philosophy. New Brunswick, USA: Transaction Publishers, 1996.
Fakhry, Majod. Averroes. Oxford: Oneworld, 2001.
Foster, Mark. “Neo-Platonism: Framework for a Bahá’í Ontology.” www.bahai-library.org/unpubl.articles/neoplaton-
ism.framework.html
Hazini, Nima: “Neoplatonism: Framework for a Bahá’í Metaphysics.” www.safnet.com/bahai/docs/neo1.html
Jancar, Barbara. The Philosophy of Aristotle. Thor Publications. New York, 1966.
Kluge, Ian. “The Call to Being: Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism.” www.geocities.com/SoHo/Den/4944/
or at www.bahai-library.org/articles/existentialism.kluge.html
———. “Reason and the Writings.” www.geocities.com/SoHo/Den/4944 or www.bahai-library.org/unpubl.articles/rea-
son.writings.html
Lloyd, A.C. The Anatomy of Neo-Platonism. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1990.
Lloyd, G.E.R. Aristotle: The Growth and Structure of His Thought. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press,
1968.
Marcel, Gabriel. Homo Viator. Trans. E. Craufurd. New York: Harper & Brothers, 1951.
Moreland, J.P. Universals. Montreal: McGill-Queen’s University Press, 2001.
Rist, J. The Development of Aristotle. Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 1989.
Ross, W.D. Aristotle. Meridian Books. New York, 1960
Savi, Julio. The Eternal Quest for God. George Ronald. Oxford, 1989.
Shoghi Effendi The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. n.p.: Immerse. Bernal Schooley, 1997.
Veatch, Henry. Aristotle: A Contemporary Appreciation. Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1974.
Notes
As always my thanks to my wife, Kirsti for her unfailing support, to Rhett Diessner for his comments and sug-
gestions and to Iraj Ayman for his encouragement.
1) Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 146; Bahá’í World Faith 337; The Promulgation of Universal Peace 348.
2) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 327, 348.
3) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XI, 14.
4) Treatise on the Creation, Question 45, Articles 2 and 4.
5) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XI, 14. See also Bahá’í World Faith 310, 311; Tablets of

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
Bahá’u’lláh 201.
6) Ibid.
6) For an excellent discussion of this, see Theo Cope’s Re-Thinking, Re-Visioning, Re-Placing.
7) Bahá’í World Faith 310.
8) Physics VII, 3, 249b.
9) Some Answered Questions 180; see also The Promulgation of Universal Peace 82.
10) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XXVI, 61.
11) Evolution and Bahá’í Belief, 57.
12) Ibid.
13) Ibid.
14) Metaphysics XII, 7, 1072a.
15) Metaphysics VIII, 4, 1044b.
16) Metaphysics IX, 8, 1049b.
17) Evolution and Bahá’í Belief, 82.
18) Evolution and Bahá’í Belief, 83.
19) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XXVI, 61.
20) Evolution and Bahá’í Belief, 82-83.
21) Evolution and Bahá’í Belief, 83.
22) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá On Divine Philosophy, quoted from Julio Savi, The Eternal Quest for God 57.
23) Physics I, 5, 188b.
24) Physics III, 1, 201a.
25) See Some Answered Questions 203 on actualization or realization.
26) Evolution and Bahá’í Belief, 52.
27) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá On Divine Philosophy, quoted from Julio Savi, The Eternal Quest for God 57.
28) The Philosophy of Aristotle 52.
30) On Generation and Corruption I, I, 314a.
31) Ibid.
32) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 88.
33) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá On Divine Philosophy quoted from Julio Savi, The Eternal Quest for God 57.
34) Some Answered Questions 180.
35) Ibid. See also Bahá’í World Faith 264.
36) See ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Some Answered Questions 233. See also Eberhard von Kitzing in Evolution and Bahá’í
Belief 206-7, 234.
37) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá On Divine Philosophy quoted from Julio Savi, The Eternal Quest for God 57.
38) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 246, italics added.
39) Some Answered Questions 203.
40) On Generation and Corruption I, I, 314a.
41) Ibid.
42) Some Answered Questions 63. See also 233.
43) Physics III, 1, 200b. See also Physics VIII, 6, 260a.
44) Physics VIII, 4, 254b.
45) Physics VIII, 6, 258b.
46) Ibid.
47) Physics VIII, 6, 259a.
48) Ibid.
49) Bahá’í Prayers 24.
50) Ibid.
51) Ibid.
52) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XCIII, 184.
53) Ibid. LXXXII, 162.
54) Tablet to Dr. Forel in Bahá’í World Faith 343.
55) Some Answered Questions 6.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
56) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh CLX, 337. See also Some Answered Questions 5.
57) Prayers and Meditations, 262. See also Metaphysics XIII, 7, 1072b.
58) Physics VII, 1, 242a. See also Some Answered Questions 148, 280.
59) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh X, 6.
60) Physics VIII, 5, 256a. See also Physics VIII,10, 267b; Metaphysics XII, 8, 1073a; The Promulgation of
Universal Peace 172.
61) Metaphysics XII, 7, 1072a.
62) Metaphysics XII, 8, 1073a. See also The Promulgation of Universal Peace 172.
63) Physics VIII, 6, 258b.
64) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XIX.
65) Metaphysics XII, 7,1072b. See also Bahá’í World Faith 410; Some Answered Questions 76; The
Promulgation of Universal Peace 370.
66) Metaphysics XII, 7, 1072b.
67) Some Answered Questions 146-7.
68) Ibid.
69) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 422. See also Some Answered Questions 221.
70) Metaphysics XII, 7, 1072b.
71) Physic I, 1, 184a.
72) Metaphysics XII, 7, 1072a,b. See also Metaphysics XII, 9, 1075a.
73) Foundations of World Unity 73.
74) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 14. See also Some Answered Questions 195-6, 236.
75) Ibid.
76) Some Answered Questions 280.
77) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh LXXXII, 162.
78) Physics II, 7, 198 a, b.
79) Metaphysics V, 1, 1013 a, b.
80) Some Answered Questions 280.
81) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh LXXXII, 162.
82) Prayers and Meditations, CLXIX, 262.
83) Ibid.
84) On the Soul III, 11, 434a.
85) On the Heavens I, 4, 271a.
86) On the Soul III, 11, 432b.
87) Metaphysics VII, 9, 1034a.
88) Edel, Aristotle and His Philosophy 68.
89) Bahá’í World Faith 341.
90) Some Answered Questions 182.
91) Bahá’í World Faith 341.
92) Ibid.
93) Edel, Aristotle and His Philosophy 68.
94) Ibid.
95) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 326.
96) Some Answered Questions 199.
97) Copelston, A History of Philosophy, Vol. I, Part II, 68. See also Some Answered Questions 184, 192 and
Evolution and Bahá’í Belief 84-5.
98) Some Answered Questions 182-3. See also The Promulgation of Universal Peace 358-9.
99) Aristotle: A Modern Appreciation 48, italics added.
100) Metaphysics VI, 1,1026a.
101) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 29.
102) On the Soul II, 3, 414a.
103) On the Soul II, 3, 414b.
104) On the Soul II, 3, 414b. See also On the Soul II, 3, 415a.

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
105) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 21.
106) Ibid. 262.
107) Ibid. 254—257.
108) Physics I,1, 184a. See also Posterior Analytics I,1, 71b.
109) Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 49.
110) See A.O. Lovejoy, The Great Chain of Being.
111) Some Answered Questions 199.
112) Edel, Aristotle and His Philosophy 66.
113) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 14.
114) Some Answered Questions 199.
115) Ibid. 196.
116) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 29, 114.
117) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 158, 240. See also Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
46; Some Answered Questions 235; On the Soul II, 3, 414b.
118) “Studies in Immortality,” Star of the West XIV, 8, quoted in The Eternal Quest for God 152.
119) “Survival and Salvation,” Star of the West, VII, 190. See also The Promulgation of Universal Peace 259.
120) On the Soul III, 4, 429a.
121) The Eternal Quest for God 152, italics added.
122) On the Soul III, 2, 427a, 432a. See also Metaphysics, 2, 1046b.
123) Ibid.. II, 4, 416a.
124) Ibid. II,1, 413a.
125) Ibid. II, 2, 413b.
126) Ibid. II, 2, 413b.
127) NE X, 7, 1177b.
128) Some Answered Questions 227-229.
128) On the Soul I, 4, 408b.
129) Some Answered Questions 208.
130) On the Soul II, 1, 412b. See also On the Soul III, 7, 431b.
131) Ibid.
132) Ibid.
133) On the Soul II, 2, 414a.
134) Some Answered Questions 239.
135) Ibid.
136) Ibid. 151.
137) Ibid.
138) Ibid. 208. See also Bahá’í World Faith 317.
139) EE, VI, 96b quoted in The Development of Aristotle 168.
140) NE X, 7, 1177a, b. See also The Promulgation of Universal Peace 49.
141) Ibid.
142) NE X, 8, 1178b.
143) NE X, 7, 1177b.
144) NE X, 8,1179a.
145) On the Soul III,1, 413a.
146) On the Parts of Animals II, 10, 656a. See also EE VIII, 14, 1248a; 1249b.
147) Eudemus, frag. 5, in The Development of Aristotle 166.
148) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 246.
149) On the Soul II, 1, 413a.
150) On the Soul II, 1, 412b.
151) On the Soul II, 2, 413b, italics added.
152) On the Soul III, 5, 430a.
153) Aristotle 148.
154) Metaphysics VII, 10, 1035b. See also Metaphysics VIII, 2, 1043a.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
155) On the Soul IV, 4, 415b.
156) Some Answered Questions 240.
157) Ibid. 239, italics added.
158) Metaphysics VII, 11, 1037a.
159) Some Answered Questions 239.
160) Ibid.
160) Ibid.
161) Ibid.
162) On the Soul II, 1, 412a.
163) Ibid. II, 4, 415b.
164) Ibid. See also Metaphysics V, 8, 1017b.
165) On the Soul I, 4, 408b.
166) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 416.
168) The Development of Aristotle 67.
169) On the Soul II, 1, 412a.
170) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 416.
171) Foundations of World Unity 110.
172) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 58-9, 257. See also Foundations of World Unity 58 and Paris Talks
158.
173) Some Answered Questions 181.
174) Some Answered Questions 199.
175) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 17. See also Some Answered Questions 187.
176) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 173.
177) Ibid. 58.
178) Ibid. 32.
179) Ibid. 58.
180) Some Answered Questions 199.
181) Ibid.
182) Some Answered Questions 210. See also The Eternal Quest for God 155.
183) On Memory and Reminiscence I.
184) Allan, The Philosophy of Aristotle 55. See also Aristotle and His Philosophy 160 and Aristotle 138-140.
185) Some Answered Questions 239.
186) On the Soul I, 3, 407b.
187) Ibid. See also On the Soul II, 1, 413a.
188) Some Answered Questions 239.
189) On the Soul II, 12, 424a.
190) Some Answered Questions 157.
191) On the Soul III, 4, 429a.
192) Ibid. III, 8, 432a.
193) Aristotle 131.
194) Some Answered Questions 83.
195) Ibid. 84.
196) Ibid.
197) Ibid.
198) Ibid. 83.
199) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 307, italics added.
200) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh LXX, 136.
201) Ibid. XCV, 194.
202) Ibid., italics added.
203) Epistle to the Son of the Wolf 15, italics added.
204) Ibid.
205) Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 79.

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
206) Ibid. 49-50.
207) Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 61-2, italics added.
208) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 79, italics added.
209) Some Answered Questions 217-8.
210) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 294, italics added.
211) Universals.
212) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XI, 14.
213) Ibid.
214) Aristotle 131.
215) Ibid. See also 159.
216) Aristotle 166.
217) Evolution and Bahá’í Belief 55.
218) The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh 67.
219) Ibid.
220) Ibid.
221) Bahá’í World Faith 395.
222) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 296.
223) Ibid.
224) Ibid. 297.
225) Ibid. 40.
226) Ibid. 121.
227) Some Answered Questions 217-8, italics added.
228) Ibid.
229) Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 41.
230) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XXVII, 66.
231) Ibid. XXVII, 67.
232) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 14.
233) Ibid. 272.
234) Ibid. 233.
235) Ibid.
236) Ibid. 378. See also 219.
237) Ibid. 422.
238) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XIII, 22, italics added.
239) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XXII, 54.
240) Some Answered Questions 9, italics added.
241) Ibid.
242) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh VIII, 11.
243) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 421.
244) Ibid. 114.
245) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XCV, 194.
246) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 465, italics added.
247) Some Answered Questions 9. See also 3.
248) Ibid. 138. See also Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 32.
249) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 29. See also Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XCI.
250) The World Order of Baha’u’llah, 58. See also 115.
251) Some Answered Questions 9. See also 134.
252) Metaphysics VIII, 1, 1042a.
253) Ibid.
254) Metaphysics IV, I, 1003. See also Metaphysics IV, I, 4, 1007a,b.
255) Aristotle and His Philosophy, 128.
256) Aristotle and His Philosophy, 129.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
257) Metaphysics, VIII, 2, 1043a.
258) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XXVII, 66, italics added.
259) Ibid.
260) Ibid.
261) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 172.
262) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XXVII, 66-7.
263) Ibid.
264) Ibid.
265) Ibid.
266) Some Answered Questions 9. See also 239.
267) Ibid.
268) Ibid.
269) Ibid. 240.
270) The Kitáb-i-ˆqán, 25, italics added.
271) Ibid. 27, italics added.
272) Prayers and Meditations, 90.
273) Ibid.
274) The Kitáb-i-ˆqán, 129.
275) Ibid.
276) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 29.
277) Ibid. 268.
278) Ibid.
279) Metaphysics VIII, 2, 1043a. See also Metaphysics VIII, 2, 1045a.
280) Metaphysics VIII, 6, 1045a.
281) Some Answered Questions 89, italics added.
282) Ibid. 145.
283) Ibid.
284) Metaphysics VII, 8, 1033b.
285) Some Answered Questions 9. See also 98.
286) Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 140.
287) Ibid.
288) Metaphysics VII, 8, 1033b.
290) Aristotle 169 –171. See also Aristotle and His Philosophy 111-133; Metaphysics V, 8, 1017b; Metaphysics
VII, 4, 1030a; Metaphysics VII, 6, 1031b; Metaphysics VII, 6, 1032a; Metaphysics VII, 7,1032b.
291) The Kitáb-i-ˆqán 29, italics added. See also Some Answered Questions 195.
292) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XC, 177.
293) Ibid.
294) Ibid.
295) Ibid. XCIII,187. See also Promulgation of Universal Peace 326.
296) Ibid. LXXXII, 160.
297) Ibid. LXXXIII, 164. See also Bahá’í World Faith 359.
298) Ibid. LXXXIV,167.
299) Ibid. LXXXIII, 167.
300) Ibid. CXXXIX, 302.
301) Ibid. CLI, 321.
302) Ibid. CXXXVIII, 300. See also Some Answered Questions 184.
303) Ibid. CLIII, 328.
304) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 354.
305) Ibid. 431.
306) Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 167.
307) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XXVII, 65.
308) Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah, XXVI, 63. See also The Promulgation of Universal Peace 39.

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
309) Ibid. XXVI, 64. See also The Promulgation of Universal Peace 39.
310) The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys, 55. See also Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 58; Foundations of World
Unity 109.
311) Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 157.
312) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XV 36. See also Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá 20.
313) Ibid. XXVII, 65-6, numbering added.
314) Ibid.
315) Ibid.
316) The Secret of Divine Civilization 11.
317) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XC, 178.
318) Ibid.
319) Ibid.
320) Ibid.
321) Metaphysics VII, 10, 1035b,1036a.
322) Metaphysics VII, 10, 1036a.
323) Ibid.
324) Ibid.
325) Ibid.
326) Some Answered Questions 83.
327) Metaphysics VII, 14, 1039b. See also Metaphysics, VII, 15,1040a.
328) Ibid.
329) Metaphysics IV, 4, 1007a.
330) Metaphysics V,12, 1019a,b.
331) Ibid. See also The Promulgation of Universal Peace 19. See also 438.
332) Metaphysics V, 10, 1019b.
333) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XXVI, 61.
334) Ibid.
335) Some Answered Questions 281.
336) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XCVII, 197.
337) Ibid.
338) Ibid.
339) Ibid.
340) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 85. See also 106, 217.
341) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 19. See also 438.
342) Ibid. 51, italics added.
343) Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 5.
344) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XXVII, 67. See also Kitáb-i-Aqdas 177; Tablets of
Bahá’u’lláh 72; The Promulgation of Universal Peace 17; Foundations of World Unity 49; The Secret of
Divine Civilization 4; Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 27.
345) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XIV, 27-35. See also Gleanings from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, LXXIX; The Promulgation of Universal Peace 17; Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá 3; Kitáb-i-ˆqán, 147; Some Answered Questions 217-8, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, 4,188; Foundations
of World Unity 10.
346) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 279. See also 284, 286 and Some Answered Questions 6; Tablets
of Bahá’u’lláh, 183,187; Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah, CXII, 223; Bahá’í World Faith 31,
241.
347) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 246, italics added.
348) Ibid.
349) Some Answered Questions 281. See also Some Answered Questions 180, 204, 225 and The Promulgation
of Universal Peace 88, 89. Thus Bahá’u’lláh’s statements about nothingness must be read as ‘nothingness
relative to God’ and not absolute nothingness. See Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XXVI, 61;
XXIX, 71; CXXV, 266.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
350) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 421.
351) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 421-2.
352) Ibid.
353) Some Answered Questions 108.
354) Ibid. 157, 229
355) Ibid. 196.
356) ABS Conference, Seattle, Washington; September, 2001; available at www.geocities.com/SoHo/Den/4944/
357) Some Answered Questions 195.
358) Ibid.
359) Ibid.
360) Ibid. 196, italics added.
361) Ibid. 195.
362) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XXXV, 84.
363) Some Answered Questions 9, emphasis added.
364) Some Answered Questions 297, italics added.
365) NE VI, 2, 1139b. See also NE VI, 7, 1141b.
366) On the Soul II, 3, 415a.
367) NE VI, 6, 1141a.
368) EE VII, 1248a.
369) Ibid.
370) Ibid.
371) Ibid.
372) Ibid.
373) Ibid.
374) Ibid.
375) EE VII, 6, 248b.
376) EE VII, 1248a.
377) Ibid.
378) EE I,1 1214a.
379) NE I, 7, 1097a,b.
380) Proclamations of Baha’u’llah, n.p.
381) Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 220.
382) The Secret of Divine Civilization 46.
383) Ibid. 60.
384) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 188.
385) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 361.
386) NE X, 6, 1176b.
387) NE X, 7, 1177a.
388) Ibid.
389) NE X, 8, 1178a.
390) NE VI, 13, 1144a.
391) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 38, italics added.
392) Ibid. 170.
393) EE VII, 15, 1249b.
394) Ibid.
395) NE X, 7, 1177a.
396) Ibid.
397) NE X, 8,1178b.
398) Paris Talks 174.
399) Bahá’í World Faith 382-3, italics added.
400) Ibid.

The Aristotelean Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
401) A History of Philosophy, Vol. I, Pt II, 74.
402) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 166, italics added.
403) NE VII, 1145a.
404) On the Soul I, 4, 408b.
405) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 166.
406) Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 69.
407) NE III, IV; V.
408) The Secret of Divine Civilization 59.
409) NE I, 1099a. See also IX, 9, 1170a.
410) Bahá’í World Faith 398.
411) NE III, 3,1112a, b. See also Some Answered Questions 248.
412) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 166.
413) NE I, 7, 1097b.
414) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 35.
415) Aristotle 175.
416) Metaphysics IX, 9, 1051a.
417) Ibid.
418) Aristotle 175.
419) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XXVI, 62.
420) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 80.
421) Some Answered Questions 215.
422) Ibid. 264.
423) Aristotle 175.
424) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XLIII, 94.
425) Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 36-37. See also The Hidden Words (Arabic), #2.
426) Bahá’í World Faith 280.
427) NE V, 3, 1131a.
428) NE V, 5, 1133b.
429) Foundations of World Unity 36.
430) NE V, 5, 1131b.
431) NE V, 3, 1132a.
432) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 99 See also Some Answered Questions 273.
433) Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 153.See also Tablets of Baha’u’llah, 69; NE III, 9, 1117b.
434) NE IV, 1, 1119b; see also Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh CXXX.
435) NE IV, 3,1125a; see also The Promulgation of Universal Peace 60, 332, 466; Gleanings from the Writings
of Bahá’u’lláh CXL, 306.
436) NE IV, 8, 1128a,b; see also Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 134.
437) Politics VIII, 5,1340b. See also The Promulgation of Universal Peace 52.
438) Politics VII, 17,1336b.
439) Politics VI, 2, 1317a-1317b.
440) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XLIII, XLV, CLIX.
441) Politics VI, 3,1318a. See also Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 88.
442) Politics VI, 3,1318a. See also Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 39, 40, 43.
443) Politics VII,13, 1332a. See also The Promulgation of Universal Peace 135.
444) Politics VII,13,1332a.
445) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh CXXX, 285.
446) NE IX, 9, 1170b. See also NE VIII, 1157b; EE VII; MM, II, 11-17; Bahá’í World Faith 434.
447) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh LXXXVI, 170.
448) NE IX, 8, 1168b.
449) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 66.
450) Politics I, 2, 1252b.
451) Politics VI, 2, 1317b.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
452) Politics VII, 1,1324a. See also Politics VII, 3, 1325b.
453) Politics VII, I, 1323b. See also Politics VII, 2,1324a.
454) Ibid.
455) Politics III, 4, 1277a.
456) The Kitáb-i-Aqdas #173.
457) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 24.
458) Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 1.
459) Metaphysics XII, 7, 1072a.
460) Evolution and Bahá’í Belief 57.
461) Politics V, 8, 1307b.
462) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XCIII, 188.
463) Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 88.
464) Politics VI, 4,1318b.
465) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XLIII, 92.
466) Ibid. CLIX, 335-6.
467) Politics I, 2, 1253a.
468) Some Answered Questions 79. See also The Secret of Divine Civilization 116.
469) NE II, 2, 1104a,b.
470) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 112.
471) Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 248.
472) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh LXXV, 43.
473) See work by Theo Cope’s book Re-Thinking, Re-Visioning, Re-Placing and articles by Mark Foster and
Nima Hazini.
474) Some Answered Questions 233.
475) Ibid.
476) Metaphysics V, 8, 1017b
477) An Interpretation of Whitehead’s Metaphysics, 115.
478) Ibid.
479) Ibid.
480) Ibid.
481) Ibid.
482) Aristotle: A Contemporary Appreciation 35.
483) Metaphysics V, 8, 1017b.

The Call into Being
Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
Ian Kluge
1) Introduction
T
his paper will demonstrate how, based on the concept of potentials, a Bahá’í existential-
ism can be developed from the Writings. According to the Writings, human beings, like
all other entities, are essentially defined by their potentials,1 “possibilities,”2 “capaci-
ties,”3 “susceptibilities”4 or “powers.”5 Bahá’u’lláh tells us, “Regard man as a mine rich in gems
of inestimable value.”6 Thus, humankind differs from animals in regards to the capacity for
rational and abstract thought,7 while human beings differ from one another in terms of innate
intellectual capacity.8 This naturally leads to questions as what it means to understand ourselves
“in terms of [our] possibilities”?9
2) The Nature of Existentialism
Before proceeding, it is necessary to provide a brief description of existentialism. In a nut-
shell, existentialism is an analysis of the human situation from the point of view and experi-
ence of the human subject who lives and acts as an active participant in the world. All vari-
eties of existentialism reject Descartes’ subject-object analysis of our relationship to the world
because it is only an abstraction from our actual “being-in-the-world”10 and does not, there-
fore, accurately reflect our real situation. The Bahá’i Writings Themselves, that is, the tablets
and epistles to particular individuals, verbal answers to specific questions, letters of guidance
to personal problems and the like reflect Bahá’u’lláh’s and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s understanding that we
are always “being-in-the-world”11 and never isolated like Descartes’ subjects.
Existentialists also tend to agree with Sartre that existence precedes essence—although there
can be much variation in how we are to understand this. If we understand it to say that by
means of decisions in the actual process of existence we create our own personalities, selves or
identities, then there is agreement among all existentialist thinkers. However, this agreement
would vanish if we asserted that there is no such thing as a general human nature, or, that there
is no common structure in what Heidegger calls Dasein, that is, a specifically human way of
being. Heidegger’s Being and Time, probably the central work of modern existentialism, dedi-
cates itself to nothing less than outlining the structure inherent in and, in that sense, essen-
tial to, all Dasein. Vital as it is, this difference must not be allowed to obscure the fact that
existentialists tend to concentrate and agree on a number of issues: the unique status of human
being; the essential role of freedom, choice, risk and action; the importance of authentic exis-
tence and living in good faith; the role of anxiety in illuminating the human situation; con-
cern and engagement with others and the world; the confrontation with human finitude and
death; the subject of God; the inherent limitations of abstract, rational analysis, and the role
of paradox in human existence. This mix of themes is present whether the existentialist is an
atheist such as Sartre or Camus, a theist such as Kierkegaard and Marcel, or a non-theist such

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
as the Heidegger of Being and Time.
3) The Unique Status of Human Existence
All existentialists agree that human existence is fundamentally different from other forms of
being. Whereas other beings are ‘in-themselves’, “en-soi”12 and simply exist as they are with-
out being consciously present to themselves or feeling any inner conflicts about themselves,
humans alone are ‘for-themselves’, “pour-soi,”13 that is, consciously present to themselves and
required to take a stance in regards to themselves. They can choose—or refuse—to live for them-
selves. Heidegger reserves the term “Dasein” for the human way of being to indicate that
Dasein is distinguished from other ways of being by that fact that we ex-ist, that is, consciously
stand out from our environment and thus have certain unique capabilities as well as liabilities.
Dasein is always concerned with “its ownmost possibilities of Being in the world.”14 He adds
that “Dasein exists as an entity for which, in its being, being is itself an issue.”15 Marcel
asserts that the human ‘I’ cannot simply be assimilated into the world of things.”16
The Bahá’í Writings are in fundamental agreement with this analysis of the human situation.
Humankind is not simply a part of nature, but is defined by its potential for rationality or
“rational soul”17 which not only distinguishes us from inanimate nature, plants and animals18
but also has power over nature. Moreover, it has “no end.”19 The exhortations to evolve,
improve and free ourselves20 indicate that the Bahá’í Writings, like the existentialist philoso-
phers, view humans as being present to themselves, as being objects of action “for-them-
selves”21 and deeply concerned with their “ownmost possibilities.”22 In short, they all agree
that humankind is self-conscious in a way unlike any other beings.
4) The Meaning of “To Exist”
The Bahá’í Writings and existential philosophy also share similar viewpoints of what it
means to “exist.” The Writings refer to the ‘call into being’23 with its unmistakable suggestion
that coming into existence means to ‘ex-ist’, to stand out from a background, “to emerge, to
arise.”24 Elsewhere Marcel writes that to exist means not just to be “present to my own aware-
ness”25 but also to be a manifest being: “I exist—that is as much to say: I have something to
make myself known and recognized both by others and by myself.”26 When things come into
existence, they appear, they show or reveal or manifest themselves and are thus differentiated
from their background of environment27 and, consequently, are no longer hidden.
5) Being “In Process” and “Being Toward”
If our species and individual essences is defined by our potentials then both as species and
as individuals we are always in process and, therefore, incomplete. We are always, as Heidegger
says, “Being toward a possibility.”28 On the individual level this is emphasized by the Bahá’í
teaching on immortality according to which we develop our potentials without end through the
“many worlds”29 of God. At the collective level, this is emphasized by the Bahá’í view of human
evolution as the gradual actualization and manifestation of previously hidden potentials rather
than the transformation of one species into another.30
6) Being “Not-Yet”
Because we are ‘being-toward-possibility’,
human beings (Heidegger’s “Dasein”) are
inevitably “not-yet,”31 that is, we are never completely ourselves because we are works in
progress rather than finished products. It also means that “Dasein is constantly ‘more’ than it
factically is”32 because of the unactualized potentials that make up our essence. Both as a
species and as individuals, we are “permeated with possibility”33 that must always be taken into
account if we are to understand ourselves correctly and develop an accurate, authentic self-

Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
image. What we see is not all there is. These possibilities represent our more complete, future
selves and their presence—even as mere potentials—cannot help but influence us in the present
time. We can either accept them, reject them or ignore them but in each case a decision of some
kind is required.
Never being finished means that, to some extent, we are always in the position of waiting
for ourselves and living in anticipation34 of a final identity. In the words of Heidegger,
“Anticipation makes Dasein [human beings] authentically futural and in such a way that
Dasein, as being, is always coming towards itself.”35 Elsewhere he says we are a “Being towards
one’s ownmost, distinctive potentiality-for-being”36 We are always approaching, but never
fully reaching, ourselves. As Sartre puts it, “man is always separated from what he is by all the
breadth of the being which he is not . . . Man is a being of distances.”37 Final identity recedes
like the horizon while forever drawing us onward. In the Bahá’í vision of life and the after-life,
the endless quest for ever more adequate self-actualization is a positive vision reflecting the
infinite glory God has bestowed on humankind. We are all engaged on an endless voyage of dis-
covery in which every moment is both a sheltering harbor and a point of departure.
Because we are a “being-toward,38 we are, whether conscious of it or not, innately vectored,
have a direction and live towards a particular future, namely, the actualization of our person-
al potentials. Our lives are not simply intended to be a random and shapeless succession of
events no matter how pleasurable this might be because each of human life is innately and
inherently structured as a particular “for-the-sake-of-which.”39 Having a purpose is an inher-
ent part of our being.
7) Self-Transcendence
Another way of portraying our “being-toward”40 and being “not-yet”41 is to say that
humankind is self-transcendent: we are always trying to overcome ourselves as we are in favour
of what we might be.42 Indeed, Marcel links this “urgent inner need for transcendence”43 to
“an aspiration towards purer and purer modes of experience.”44 For his part, Sartre links our
urge for self-transcendence to the inherently doomed project of becoming God. In short,
almost all existentialists agree that if we live authentically, that is, according to our human
nature, we are inherently and structurally unsatisfied with ourselves and seek to be better than
we are. This suggests that we are inevitably plagued by varying degrees of self-dissatisfaction.
8) Self-Dissatisfaction
Because of our nature as “not-yet,”45 we are bound to suffer a certain amount of eternal dis-
satisfaction with or alienation from ourselves because it is impossible for us to be ‘all there’. In
Marcel’s words, “the need for transcendence presents itself, above all, [as a] deeply experienced
. . . kind of dissatisfaction.”46 Of course, this is not to say that existentialism or the Writings
endorse a self-crippling or self-destructive perfectionism that is a pathological perversion of
our innate dissatisfaction with ourselves. We should see this dissatisfaction as a sign of our
heroic potential for self-conquest and self-overcoming. We need not interpret this dissatisfac-
tion negatively as does Heidegger whose Christian background leads him to interpret this dis-
satisfaction as guilt, and to claim that “being-guilty belongs to Dasein’s [human] being.”47
Bahá’ís may embrace this innate dissatisfaction as ‘divine’, as one of God’s signs that we reflect
the infinity of His names,48 that we always face an open future, that we are always free to
remake and renew ourselves, that we face an infinite number of new possibilities for actual-
ization and, therefore, ought never to despair.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
9) Detachment
Given our situation as perpetually incomplete, we should not be too ‘stuck’ on any current
version of ourselves, but should, rather, practice the art of detachment from our present per-
sonalities since they are all ‘just temporary’. “Cast away that which ye possess, and, on the
wings of detachment, soar beyond all created things.”49 From this it follows that feeling fully
‘at one’ with themselves is not an authentic option for Bahá’ís since any such feeling must be,
at best, a temporary respite; if such feelings persist, they will inevitably blind the possessors
to their real ontological circumstances as a perpetually unfinished work needing improvement.
Feelings of profound self-satisfaction with one’s current condition and a desire to prolong it are
to be understood as signs of an inauthentic existence at variance with our true ontological
natures.
10) Dialectical Self-Conflict
Since our current condition and identity are being constantly undermined by the potentials
of our future, there is an inherent and on-going dialectical struggle with our present selves as
we continuously re-create ourselves in new and more adequate forms. It is our nature to be
locked in this dialectical self-conflict, and were it to stop, we would immediately fall into inau-
thentic existence. Therefore, this condition of inner struggle is not to be regarded negatively,
but rather as part of our ontological identity as human beings. There is no doubt that this
internal self-conflict causes suffering, but we must learn to understand this suffering as ‘grow-
ing pains’, as positive signs of our advancement. We must appropriate to ourselves personally
what Bahá’u’lláh says about the conflicts in the world: “The fears and agitation which the rev-
elation of this law provokes in men’s hearts should indeed be likened to the cries of the suck-
ling babe weaned from his mother’s milk, if ye be of them that perceive. Were men to discov-
er the motivating purpose of God’s Revelation, they would assuredly cast away their fears, and,
with hearts filled with gratitude, rejoice with exceeding gladness.”50
11) Progressive Revelation
At this point it becomes evident that the innate ontological structure and dynamic of our
personal lives reflects the Bahá’í Teaching of “progressive revelation”51 (in which certain essen-
tial religious truths are recapitulated in new forms, and new divine potentials released from
them to match the intellectual, material and spiritual conditions of new times). Ontogeny reca-
pitulates phylogeny. To live authentically in accordance with our essential natures both the
human species and individuals are required to grow, to overcome their own collective and per-
sonal “ancestral forms.”52 and advance into higher, that is, more subtle, more inclusive and
more adequate versions of ourselves. We must do so despite the fact that the process inevitably
involves overcoming a variety of pains including the painful awareness that failure, or the fall
into inauthenticity, is always possible. We must, therefore, develop what Paul Tillich calls “the
courage to be” lest we fall into the despair of “having lost our destiny.”53
12) Fallen Existence
In Heidegger’s terms, we must avoid a “fugitive way of saying ‘I’”54 which is “motivated by
Dasein’s falling; for as falling, it flees in the face of itself into the ‘they’.”55 Even though this
‘I’ seems ‘normal’ to outsiders and even ourselves, “[w]hen the ‘I’ talks in the ‘natural’ manner,
this is performed by the they-self,”56 that is, the mass (‘Das Man’; the ‘they’) or crowd identi-
ty we inevitably take on when our lives are not filled with genuine content. The crowd speaks
and acts through us; we have been appropriated by the crowd. As Heidegger puts it, “It itself is
not; Being has been taken away by the Others”57 although this “inconspicuous domination”58
may not always be obvious. As a result, we belong to the Others and augment their power by

Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
becoming “dispersed into the ‘they.’”59 We have “fallen away”60 from our true possibilities and
suffer from “alienation [Entfremdung] in which [our] ownmost potentiality-for-Being is hidden
from [us].”61
Heidegger, like all existentialists philosophers, rejects this kind of inauthentic existence. So
do the Bahá’í Writings which make each of us responsible for our own actions and do not allow
us to shake off responsibility for our lives on others. If God asks us why we have rejected His
Manifestation, we cannot point to others because “such a plea will, assuredly, be rejected. For
the faith of no man can be conditioned by any one except himself.”62 In other words, there is
no refuge and no flight from personal responsibility in the mass or what Heidegger calls the
“they-self.”63
Being ‘resolute’, or avoiding “fallen-ness”64 is also a socially beneficial act since a genuine
community in which genuine consultation occurs, can only be found among people who are
authentically themselves, and see with their own eyes and speak their own thoughts. The best
way for us to help create such a community is to be such a person ourselves which is precisely
what the Bahá’í Writings demand. As Heidegger writes, “Dasein’s resoluteness towards itself is
what first makes it possible to let Others who are with it be in their ownmost potentiality-for-
being, and to co-disclose this potentiality in the solicitude which leaps forth and liberates . . .
Only by authentically Being-their-Selves in resoluteness can people authentically be with one
another—not by ambiguous and jealous stipulations and talkative fraternizing in the ‘they’.”65
By self-actualizing, each of us attains the authentic being that lets us serve as an example for
others.
13) Anxiety
The fact that we are always susceptible of “falling”66 into inauthentic being makes a certain
amount of anxiety structurally inherent in human existence. For Heidegger, the anxiety pro-
voked by this prone-ness to falling is the origin of the conscience, since the experience of anx-
iety is the sign of having or developing a conscience. Thus we should welcome anxiety because
it is proof of wanting-to-have-a-conscience which ultimately helps us to gain, preserve and
regain our authenticity. It is precisely this anxiety which eventually helps us attain that “res-
oluteness . . . [which is] that truth of Dasein which is most primordial because it is authen-
tic.”67 Such anxiety is a natural part of being ourselves and we would, in fact, not be well off
if this natural anxiety were absent since that would lower our level of concern about our exis-
tential condition. The resulting carelessness would not serve us well neither as individuals nor
as a community. Clearly, this anxiety is not to be understood as a kind of panic but rather as
what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá calls “due concern.”68
In the same way, Bahá’u’lláh tells us that we should feel “concern”69 “only for that which prof-
iteth mankind, and bettereth the condition thereof.”70 As we have already seen, concern for
improving the human condition includes self-actualization of one’s potentialities and the
attainment of authentic identity. From this we can see that the Bahá’íWritings accept a certain
amount of anxiety and concern as an inevitable part of the human condition. This idea is also
inherent in the notion that eventually “Ye shall, most certainly, return to God, and shall be
called to account for your doings in the presence of Him Who shall gather together the entire
creation.”71 This idea is further emphasized by the injunction to “weigh in that Balance thine
actions every day, every moment of thy life. Bring thyself to account ere thou art summoned
to a reckoning.”72 In other words, there is a kind of salutary and growth-promoting anxiety
that we must not only learn to live with but accept as a positive part of the human condition.
Because this kind of existential anxiety serves a positive life-enhancing function for individu-

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
als and communities, it must not be confused with the debilitating fears and phobias that pre-
vent personal and social life from being lived to their full potential.
Anxiety not only reveals the continuing possibility of inauthentic existence, it also disclos-
es our situation in the world. According to Heidegger, in anxiety we face our “ownmost-Being-
thrown”73, that is, confront the fact that we simply exist and that there is no humanly dis-
cernible or rational reason why this should be so. We simply are, and find ourselves be-ing:
“Dasein has been thrown into existence”74 says Heidegger. Sartre also uses this term.75
It is precisely on this point that the Bahá’í Writings offer an alternative direction in the
development of existentialism. Rather than seeing humankind as “thrown” into existence, a
view that in the case of Sartre and Camus, leads to the judgment that existence is somehow
absurd and inherently meaningless, the Bahá’í Writings view humankind and indeed, the entire
universe as called into being.76 The view that we are “thrown” into existence is a consequence
of failing to take into account the fact that the universe and all its inhabitants are the creations
of a supreme Being who called everything into being for a particular purpose in the evolu-
tionary world process. We only feel “thrown” when we foreshorten our vision and ignore the
existence of God. Whereas “thrown” (‘geworfen’ in German) connotes a disorderly, haphazard,
undignified and even violent arrival which might easily lead to sense of worthlessness, care-
lessness and despair, being ‘called’ suggests that each thing is wanted, has a place and a task, is
invested with the natural dignity and possesses inherent value. Contrary to superficial expec-
tations this does not ease the challenges that we face. Indeed, it intensifies them because being
inauthentic is not just being untrue to ourselves but is also a rebellion against God’s will.
God’s call is to a particular person who must not squander this call by trying to be someone
else; it is issued to our authentic potentials. We must not “flee to the relief which comes with
the supposed freedom of the they-self.”77 Nor can we dismiss this call as absurd since God has
His reasons in each case. This fact is emphasized by the Báb’s prayer which states that “All are
His servants and all abide by His bidding.”78 In other words, human existence is inherently
meaningful even though we do not always actualize this meaning successfully. This is one issue
on which a Bahá’í existentialism differs radically from the atheistic existentialism of Sartre and
Camus.
14) Not-belonging
Anxiety also reveals our human condition as not being fully ‘at home’ in the world. Unlike
other entities and creatures, humans are not fully at home in the world insofar as we possess
conscious capabilities other creatures lack. We cannot live with the sensual contentedness of a
cow, nor, as Abdu’l-Baha noted, should we because to do so means not actualizing our true
potentials.79 Through their emphasis on detachment from the world, the Bahá’í Writings also
emphasize that humankind neither is nor should ever be as at home in the world as animals.
“[T]he contingent world is the source of imperfections”80 and humans should be focussed on
divine perfections. Indeed, relative to the divine perfections we are intended to actualize, the
world is as ‘nothing’ and we must neither over-value nor undervalue it. In one sense, the world
is certainly an illusion, a mirage, a nothing,81 and, if we foreshorten our vision to exclude God,
we will indeed find ourselves “thrown” into nothingness or into a meaningless, seething mass
of being. This feeling of not-being-at-home or not-belonging is something that all Bahá’ís can
recognize and which the Writings, to a certain extent, approve.82 Our recognition of the situ-
ation in which we are in but not fully of nature, readily leads to anxiety about our true place,
our ‘home’ and our belonging. One of the reasons for the arrival of Manifestations is to alle-
viate this structurally inherent anxiety and to help us direct this emotional energy to the
divine world where we really belong.

Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
15) Resoluteness and the Call Into Being
The issues of resoluteness, anxiety and “the call into being”83 lead naturally to what we
might refer to as the ‘call of being’, namely the fact that through anxiety, we hear “the call of
conscience [that] summons us to our potentiality-for-Being.”84 This has two consequences. First,
anxiety reveals our freedom to choose for or against the actualization of our possibilities.85 It
discloses the fact that human be-ing is characterized by freedom, a view that underlies the
foundation of all Bahá’í ethics. This freedom can, of course, be frightening because it marks
the beginning of responsibilities for the conduct of one’s life. Second, through anxiety, con-
science summons us to an authentic existence by calling on us to self-actualization. “When the
call of conscience is understood, our being lost in the ‘they’ is revealed. Resoluteness brings
Dasein back to its ownmost potentiality-for-Being-itself.”86 The call of conscience “calls Dasein
forth (and forward) to its ownmost possibilities, as a summons to its ownmost potentiality-for-
Being-its-Self.”87
We must ask where this call comes from especially since it is often “against our expectations
and even against our will”?88 According to Heidegger, the call comes from us and yet from
beyond us In other words, “the call of conscience”89 originates as a call from our unactualized
potentials, projecting the influence of their presence into our lives; these unactualized poten-
tials are our own future possible selves and their presence makes us uneasy about what we are
doing with ourselves. Thus, “[i]n conscience Dasein calls itself.”90 However, the call also comes
from outside, a fact that Heidegger recognizes but does not develop. The Bahá’í Writings suf-
fer no such disadvantage, and can frankly assert that the call of being and the call of conscience
are one and same: they are signs of God’s action in the world through the anxious state of mind
or “mood.”91
However, even this positive view of the call of conscience still leaves us—and Heidegger’s
philosophy—with a problem: is conscience by itself actually capable of empowering us to
return from our fallen state back into authenticity? As John Macquarrie says, conscience “can
at best awaken in fallen man the awareness of lost possibility of being. It can disclose to him
his ontological possibility of authenticity. But it cannot by any means empower him to choose
that possibility.”92 At this point we understand the existential necessity of a Manifestation to
re-orient our lives to self-actualization, authenticity and the transcendent aspects of our exis-
tence.
16) “Being-Toward-Death”
Because we are continuously changing,93 it follows that our identities are continuously dying
as we cast aside outmoded, no longer adequate selves in order actualize new possibilities. This
is one way in which human beings are what Heidegger calls “Being-towards-death”94 since we
are, in fact, constantly striving to re-invent ourselves. We die daily, indeed, during periods of
challenging, rapid growth or, at times of crisis, hourly or even from moment to moment. It is
one of the great paradoxes of human existence that dying is our most authentic way of life. In
the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, “Until a being setteth his foot in the plane of sacrifice, he is bereft
of every favour and grace; and this plane of sacrifice is the realm of dying to the self, that the
radiance of the living God may then shine forth. The martyr’s field is the place of detachment
from self, that the anthems of eternity may be upraised.”95 We thus live in perpetual anticipa-
tion of death, of which the death of the physical body is only one kind. Indeed, the Bahá’í
Writings encourage the daily practice of “Being-towards-death”96 when they tell us to bring our-
selves to account each day before we perish.97

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
17) “Being-Toward-Death” and Freedom
Once understood and appropriated for oneself, “Being-towards-death”98 is also a source of
ontological freedom because it frees us from any undue attachment to former versions of our-
selves. There is no point in holding on to a version of oneself that, if things go well and real
growth occurs, is destined to pass out of existence. At this point, we cannot help but remem-
ber Bahá’u’lláh’s statement, “I have made death a messenger of joy to thee. Wherefore dost thou
grieve? I made the light to shed on thee its splendor. Why dost thou veil thyself therefrom?”99
Death is “a messenger of joy” because the dying of one identity is a pre-requisite for a more
adequate identity, just as our physical dying is a pre-requisite for entrance into the Abhá
Kingdom. It is the death that precedes a birth and a life of encountering opportunities.
18) Being an “Inexhaustible Mystery”
Another way of viewing our inherent incompleteness and perpetual evolution is to say that
we are an “inexhaustible mystery.”100 As the Writings tell us, “Regard man as a mine rich in
gems of inestimable value.”101 Consequently, human beings are always mysterious to them-
selves, and experience themselves as a mystery, as something that by its very nature can never
be fully understood. No amount of factual information can ever provide exhaustive knowledge
of even a single person, for, as the Bahá’í Writings say, “Man is My mystery, and I am his mys-
tery.”102 This is also what the theistic existentialist Gabriel Marcel is getting at in the title of
his two volume The Mystery of Being and this is precisely the main point of Kierkegaard’s
entire oeuvre and his objection to Hegel: human beings are inherently mysterious and cannot
be adequately summed up by any abstract, intellectualized system.103
How we personally experience our mysteriousness can vary greatly. Some, like the Russian
theistic existentialist Nicolas Berdyaev, experience it as an utterly inexplicable irrationality that
proves our absolute freedom and creativity beyond any rational, logical limitations.104 Others,
such as the French atheist existentialists Sartre and Camus, experience it as further evidence of
our inherent absurdity. Perhaps most interestingly, this inner “inexhaustible mystery”105 might
be experienced as a profound inner emptiness—an emptiness that is, paradoxically, also pro-
foundly full of endless potentials. This line of thought draws an existential understanding of
the Bahá’i Writings closer to Buddhism and Taoism.
Our incompleteness is also the source of our inherent creativity as we struggle to find new
and more adequate ways to actualize our potentials in the midst of an ever-changing world.
This means that we are inherently creative beings who are continuously bringing novelty into
this world by manifesting potentials that have previously been hidden. Indeed, humankind also
creatively serves cosmic evolution and reveals novelties by bringing out the hidden potentials
of matter in our various inventions.106
19) Man and Super-man
The fact that we—both collectively and individually—are essentially incomplete beings, pro-
vides a logical basis for the Bahá’í Faith’s evolutionary view of humankind; we are always on
our way to being ‘something better’, that is, an ever more complete actualization of our poten-
tials. This understanding of our species as well as our individual existences bears obvious
affinities to Nietzsche’s theory of the super-man or ‘Uebermensch’ since in both views, humans
regard themselves as a transition to something better.107 Of course, whereas Bahá’ís and
Nietzsche agree that the new ‘super-man’ has a superior intellect108 and moral system,109 they
will not necessarily agree on the content of this new moral system. However, it cannot be
denied that the evolutionary outlook inherent in the Bahá’í Writings leads to a vision of
becoming a type of human superior to what we are today although we can never exceed our

Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
ontological human status. It bears pointing out that even an atheist existentialist such as Sartre
recognizes this self-transcendent function in human beings, that is, the notion that ultimately
human beings want to be more than what they currently are. In Sartre’s view, human beings
want to be God, even though this project is, by definition, bound to fail.
20) Authenticity
Because we are a “Being-in-the-world,”110 we can only exist in full authenticity if we have an
intimate and authentic relationship to the world in which we live. As Bahá’u’lláh says, “Be anx-
iously concerned with the needs of the age ye live in, and center your deliberations on its exi-
gencies and requirements.”111 Concern for the needs—as distinct from the wants and prefer-
ences—of the age is the most intimate and authentic way to engaging with our world-as-a-whole,
and must not to be confused with relating intimately and authentically to the needs of indi-
viduals we encounter. Both, not one or the other, are necessary to a full, engaged and authen-
tic existence that actualizes the complete range of our social potentials. Heidegger recognizes
the possibilities for authentic engagement with the world under the rubric of ‘care’ which he
characterizes not only as authentic being-toward-one’s-own-possibilities but also as “Being-in-
the-world”112 and “being-with.”113 He says that “Being-in-the-world is essentially care”114 and
describes “care as the Being of Dasein.”115 Thus care in its social dimension, that is, our “con-
cern and solicitude”116 for our co-inhabitants on the earth is an integral part of our being and
cannot be avoided if we wish to develop authentically. However, unlike Bahá’u’lláh, Heidegger
does not specifically explain what characterizes authentic Being-in-the-world.
21) Free Will and the Volitional Personality
Another issue on which the Writings agree with existentialism is the inherent mystery of
self. According to the Bahá’í Writings, humankind is endowed with free will116 which, in prac-
tical terms means, we define, that is, create ourselves by the choices we make. This has imme-
diate consequences for a Bahá’í existentialism because it means we must carefully qualify
Sartre’s dictum that existence precedes essence. From the perspective of the Writings, this is
true only so far as our volitional, that is, chosen personality is concerned, since our choices
did not exist before we made them. Nonetheless, those choices are made in the context of hav-
ing a specifically human nature that is capable of making such choices in the first place.
Because we have no choice but to make these choices, we are, in Sartre’s memorable phrase “con-
demned to be free”117 and, therewith the architects of our own destiny.
22) The Mystery of Self
Furthermore, this volitional self or essence is inherently mysterious insofar as it does not
exist before any choices are made, yet something is required to make the first choice. What is
that something? We could speculate in any number of ways but the final result will always be
that we cannot know, at least not intellectually in the manner of logical necessity or physical
causality. This is because, in Marcel’s terms, the self is a “mystery”118 and not a “problem.”119
The difference between the two is clear cut: a problem is a difficulty that can be solved with
the proper procedure or technique whereas a mystery cannot be solved at all. A “mystery [is] a
problem which encroaches on its own data”120 that is, a problem that does not allow us to study
it objectively but irrevocably requires us to be involved: “I cannot place myself outside it or
before it; I am engaged.”121 Our personal identity, the self is destined to remain a mystery in
Marcel’s sense because we cannot reflect on ourselves without involving ourselves.122 The
Writings agree with Marcel’s view. However, according to them we are mysteries to ourselves
and others because we are “called into being”123 by the inscrutable will of God124 who, through
Baha’u’llah has told us that “Man is My mystery, and I am his mystery.”125 In other words, we

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
do not know why God has called us or others into being because at this point we have arrived
at an inherent limit to rational inquiry. We cannot inquire about the reason’s for God’s will
because all rational inquiry is based on either the law of non-contradiction or cause and effect
and God transcends both of these laws.
The mystery of the self is reinforced by the Bahá’í Teaching that the inner essence of things
is unknown and unknowable126; things are known by their attributes but their essences are
beyond the reach of human knowledge. This is especially true of the human soul: “Verily I say,
the human soul is, in its essence, one of the signs of God, a mystery among His mysteries. It
is one of the mighty signs of the Almighty, the harbinger that proclaimeth the reality of all the
worlds of God. Within it lieth concealed that which the world is now utterly incapable of
apprehending.”127 For this reason, ‘mysteriousness to ourselves’ is inherently structured into
human existence and the only choice we really have is in deciding how to respond to it.
23) Self-Alienation
This sense of mysteriousness to oneself and, therefore, not belonging to oneself, suggests
that a certain sense of alienation is structurally inherent in being human. As Marcel writes,
“from the moment when I start to reflect, I am bound to appear to myself as a, as it were, non-
somebody.”128 However, it can often intensify into a pathological state of alienation insofar as
one is alienated from acting in one’s own best interests. This idea underlies such injunctions as
the following: “Suffer not yourselves to be wrapt in the dense veils of your selfish desires, inas-
much as I have perfected in every one of you My creation.”129 We also read “Every good thing
is of God, and every evil thing is from yourselves”130 and “deprive not yourselves of the liber-
al effusions of His grace.”131 Each of these quotations suggests that human beings can be so
alienated from themselves that they act to inflict harm on themselves. From this point of view,
the ‘call into being’ takes on a new dimension: in addition to being the call by which the orig-
inal volitional self begins, it is also the call back into authenticity, the call to return to our
true selves. Indeed, insofar as we do not really exist when we do not live authentically—a kind
of ‘substitute’ lives in our place—the ‘call into being’ is also a call to return to existence. If
responded to, this call can be considered a kind of “second birth”132 in which we attain our true
spiritual selves or what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá calls “the world of the Kingdom.”133 According to
Heidegger, this “call says nothing which might be talked about, gives no information about
events. The call, which can be identified with the call of conscience points forward to Dasein’s
potentiality-for-Being and it does this as a call which comes from “uncanniness.”134 Thus, it is
possible to experience one’s alienation itself positively as a call to return to one’s true self.
Ignoring this call is a failure to hear oneself or, even worse, an outright refusal to do so and a
rejection of oneself.135 This, of course, leads to inauthentic existence because one is leading a
life that reflects the ‘they’ or the mass instead of one that reflects one’s “ownmost”136 poten-
tials.
24) The Mystery of Essence
Because things are known by their attributes and unknowable in their essence,137 it follows
that to some extent we will always find ourselves situated in a world of things that are essen-
tially mysterious to us. We cannot know them completely. Indeed, vis-à-vis essence, we are des-
tined to remain mysterious even to ourselves despite the fact that we have direct interior expe-
rience of ourselves.138 Consequently, we are always remote-from-ourselves139; we live in per-
petual anticipation for an ever fuller disclosure of ourselves. Given that we know only attrib-
utes and not essences, it is not surprising to find that we may feel a certain alienation from all
things and thus not feel fully ‘at home’ in the world. We can choose to lament or resent this

Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
situation, or we can ask ourselves if, in fact, we were ever intended to feel fully at home in the
world, and to live without a certain yearning for something more. In other words, is a certain
feeling of not-belonging an inherent, structural component of human existence? The answer
from the Bahá’í Writings and Heidegger seems to be positive. The Writings certainly suggest
that such is the case as seen in their exhortations to become detached from the world.140 Since
Heidegger believes that a kind of inauthenticity results from being too attached to daily exis-
tence and becoming “absorbed”141 in our “Being as everyday Being-with-one-another”142 we
may conclude that he, too, advocates a certain degree of feeling unheimlich, not-at-home in the
world as a requisite for authenticity.
However, we must bear in mind that detachment does not mean a disinterest or lack of con-
cern for the world; Bahá’u’lláh, after all, tells us to be “anxiously concerned for the needs of
the age [we] live in”143 and Heidegger sees solicitude,144 an important aspect of the care in
which Dasein reveals itself,145 as an integral part of our Being-in-the-world. Rather, it means
that we must not see the world as the ultimate and final value in our lives; we must recognize
that our relationship to “the things of this world,”146 meaning both concrete things and world-
ly affairs, must not be allowed to stand in the way of achieving personal authenticity or an
authentic relationship to God. To paraphrase Christ, what does it profit a man if he gains the
whole world and loses his soul?147
25) The Necessity of Faith
The fact that the world is inherently mysterious to us because we know things only by their
attributes and not directly by their inner essence148 means that there are inherent, structural
limitations to our knowledge. Our knowledge, our science and our action are limited to the
phenomenal level of reality and debarred from the noumenal realm which is the exclusive
domain of God. This shows that the Bahá’í Writings espouse a moderate rationalism, that is,
they recognize that while reasoned investigation and logic can tell us many things, they cannot
tell us everything and certainly not everything we need to know to live appropriately as human
beings. The key for an accurate epistemology is to know where to draw the line between the
two because this distinction is the basis for asserting the existence of other, supra-rational ways
of knowing. As the Writings tell us, we know by “faith and knowledge”149 which are the “‘two
wings’ of the soul.”150
In Marcel’s language, the difference between faith and knowledge is the difference between
“believing that”151 and “believing in.”152 The first is like a “conviction”153 of which we have
complete intellectual certainty and which—here we are going beyond Marcel—is hedged round
with all kinds of careful provisos and qualifications to preserve it from attack. “Believing
in,”154 however, is something quite different. According to Marcel, it means “that I place
myself at the disposal of something,”155 that is, I make myself available to something or some-
one. In short, faith is the kind of knowledge we get when we willingly open ourselves to the
other and give our assent to the knowledge gained in that way. Indeed, such knowledge “absorbs
most fully all the powers of [our] being.”156 It also affects our own being, that is, what we
actually are as persons. We are, as the saying goes, ‘touched’.
Now it is obvious that faith has both down-to-earth practical as well as religious applications.
Marcel uses the homely example of granting someone credit; we believe in that person—per-
haps even in contradiction to a past financial mistake. Faith in God, of course, exacts a high-
er standard, but the principle is the same: we make ourselves available to whatever evidence or
knowledge God chooses to bestow. To acquire faith we must prepare ourselves spiritually. As
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “If thou wishest the divine knowledge and recognition, purify thy heart from
all beside God, be wholly attracted to the ideal, beloved One search for and choose Him”157

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
and Bahá’u’lláh’s “first counsel [is to] possess a pure kindly and radiant heart.”158 However, in
the Writings, faith and knowledge are not opposed. After telling us to “search for and choose
Him [Bahá’u’lláh],”159 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, apply thyself to rational and authoritative arguments
“for arguments are a guide to the path and by this the heart will be turned unto the Sun of
Truth”160 and have no need of further proofs because we will simply see the truth directly. To
do this, we must make use of our freedom and choose to see.
26) Kinds of Truth
If knowledge can be acquired by rational inquiry as well as by faith, it follows that the con-
cept of truth in the Writings has at least two levels. The first, is the rational and empirical
level. Here the Writings espouse a form of the correspondence theory of truth.161 The second,
existential level concerns the issue of living ‘in truth’ insofar as we are what we appear to be
and appear to be what we are both to others and ourselves. Sartre calls this living in good or
“bad faith,”162 that is, in not lying to others or ourselves. Thus, to the extent that we lie nei-
ther to others nor ourselves, we live ‘in truth’. We exhibit what Heidegger calls “authentic dis-
closedness”163 to others and ourselves. In terms of the correspondence theory of truth, we are
consciously at one with ourselves.
However, the Writings suggest that there is yet a second level of existential truth illustrated
for example in Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that “He, Who is the Eternal Truth, beareth Me wit-
ness!”164 Naturally, the question arises how God can be the truth. There are at least three pos-
sible answers. In the first place, we might say that God and the Manifestation are the truth
because they are ultimately the standard by which all humanly discovered truths are to be
assessed. Another, metaphysical answer follows logically from the unity of God, that is, the
belief that God is absolutely one and “admits of no division.”165 As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes, “the
essential names and attributes of God are identical with His Essence.”166 Since truth is one of
God’s attributes we cannot escape the conclusion that God is truth. It is virtually self-evident
that God could not possess absolute unity if essence and attribute were distinct and divided.
Such a division would reduce God to the level of His creations in which the essence made up
of potentials and the attributes made up of actualized attributes are different. For reasons of
logic alone, God must be truth.
A third way in which God is the truth may be developed on the basis of Heidegger’s philos-
ophy. According to Heidegger, “[a]ssertion is not the primary ‘locus’ of truth.”167 In other
words, truth is not simply a matter of statements that correspond to reality. Such statements
possess a strictly secondary or “derivative character.”168 Rather, “in the most primordial
sense,”169 truth is the “disclosedness”170 that allows us to proceed to make judgments about
correctness or falsity: “The most primordial ‘truth’ . . . is the ontological condition for the pos-
sibility that assertions can either be true or false—that they may uncover or cover things up.”171
Thus, ‘primordial truth’ is the pre-condition for all subsequent judgments. As the Prime Mover,
the ground of being, the “object of desire” of the entire universe, God is that ontological pre-
condition necessary for things to be true or false and indeed, in that sense, God is the Truth
of truth. Without this pre-condition of truth, there could be no perception or understanding
of the secondary truths. As such a pre-condition for all judgments about truth, God may be
compared to light which is not seen in itself but is the necessary pre-condition for seeing.
Another way of saying all this is to point out that God is the “disclosedness172 of things, that
is, the condition of “uncoveredness”173 or being uncovered by which the secondary or deriva-
tive truths can be known.
If God is truth in the Heideggerian sense, then it follows that God is always available in our

Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
quest for knowledge. He is, as Bahá’u’lláh writes, “closer to man than his life vein.”174 God is,
quite literally, the universal pre-condition for all knowledge and discrimination and, in that
sense, revelation is occurring at all times and places. As Bahá’u’lláh writes, “Likewise hath the
eternal King spoken: ‘No thing have I perceived, except that I perceived God within it, God
before it, or God after it.’”175 God is simply unavoidable for those who have “eyes to see.”176
27) Being-Between
Further reflection reveals that human existence is characterized by being-between. We are in
the paradoxical position of waiting at the door of ourselves caught between eternal anxiety and
hope as we ponder both hopefully and anxiously what we shall disclose about our essence. As
individuals and as a species, we are in eternal evolutionary development and, therefore, always
‘between’ a point of departure and a port of arrival. Indeed, every arrival is simultaneously a
leave-taking; human beings have always just left and never quite arrived. This being-between is
reflected even in our situation in creation. According to the Bahá’í Writings, humankind is the
mid-point between matter and spirit: “the inner reality of man is a demarcation line between
the shadow and the light, a place where the two seas meet; it is the lowest point on the arc of
descent, and therefore is it capable of gaining all the grades above.”177 We exist between ani-
mality and the divine178 and while our nature or essence can be refined, it can never change.179
28) Conclusion
We shall end this introduction to a Bahá’í existentialism not with an abstract summary but
rather with an image that summarizes much of what we have discovered: human beings are not
pilgrims headed for a final destination be it Paradise, or Nirvana or Valhalla, but rather, we are
all mariners and our lives are a journey that never ends. Days and nights, in different weath-
ers, on different seas and through changing climates we sail ever onward discovering new lands
and our prows are aimed at the horizon and the Great Attractor whose brightness draws us for-
ever onward. Each moment is an arrival and departure; a “Land-ho!” and “Anchors aweigh!”; a
parting sigh and a welcoming smile, a discovery and a recognition, a being-toward-death and a
being-toward-birth, a self-transcendence and a self-disappointment, a “Ready-aye-ready” and a
“Not-yet”, a moment of knowledge and a moment of mystery, a falling into the troughs and a
rising onto the crests. Like all mariners, we are ‘in-between’. We live between waves and winds,
between sea and sky, between being ourselves and never being ourselves, between anticipation
and anxiety, between here and not-here, between peace with ourselves and internal conflict,
between being true and being untruth. Yet, through this all, we try as best we can to see the
light of the Great Attractor and to guide our ships by that light.
Abbreviations
BN
Being and Nothingness
BT
Being and Time
MB
The Mystery of Being
PE
The Philosophy of Existentialism
Bibliography
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London. London. Bahá’í Publishing Trust. 1987.
———. Foundations of World Unity. Immerse. Bernal Schooley, 1997.
———. Paris Talks. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1971.
———. The Promulgation of Universal Peace. Second Edition. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1982.
———. The Secret of Divine Civilization. Trans. Marzeih Gail. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1957.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
———. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
———. Some Answered Questions. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981.
———. Star of the West. n.p., Talisman Educational Software. CD Rom. 2001.
The Báb. Selections from the Writings of the Báb. Immerse. Bernal Schooley, 1997.
Bahá’u’lláh. Bahá’í World Faith. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1976.
———. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1979.
———. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1976.
———. Kitáb-i-Aqdas. n.p., Immerse. Bernal Schooley, 1997.
———. Kitáb-ˆqán. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1950.
———. Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh. n.p., Immerse. Bernal Schooley, 1997.
———. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
———. The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys. Wilmette: Bahá’i Publishing Trust, 1975.
Berdyaev, Nicolas.Truth and Revelation. Trans. by R.M. French. New York: Collier Books, 1962.
———. The Destiny of Man. Trans. by N. Duddington. New York: Harper & Row, 1960.
Blackham, H.J. Six Existentialist Thinkers. New York: Harper and Row, 1959.
Collins, James. The Existentialists. Chicago: Henry Regnery Company, 1968.
Copelston, Frederick. A History of Philosophy, Vol. 9, Part II. New York: Image Books, 1977.
———. Contemporary Philosophy. London: Burns and Oates, 1956.
Heidegger, Martin. Being and Time. Trans. by J. Macquarrie and E. Robinson. New York: Harper & Row, 1962.
Inwood, Michael. A Heidegger Dictionary. Oxford: Blackwell Publishers, 1999.
Kierkegaard, Soren. Concluding Unscientific Postscript. Trans. by D. Swenson and W. Lowrie. Princeton,
Princeton University Press, 1968.
Kluge, Ian. “The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings”. Lights of ‘Irfán IV, 2003.
MaCquarrie, John. Existentialism. Harmondsworth: Penguin Books, 1973.
———. An Existentialist Theology. Harmonsworth: Penguin Books, 1973.
Marcel, Gabriel. The Mystery of Being, 2 Volumes. Trans by G.S. Fraser and R. Hague. Chicago: Henry
Regnery Company, 1969.
———. Homo Viator. Trans. by E. Craufurd. New York: Harper & Row, 1962.
———. The Philosophy of Existentialism. Trans. by M. Harari. New York: Citadel Press, 1956.
———. Creative Fidelity. Trans. by R Rosthal. Toronto: Farrar, Strauss and Company, 1964.
Nietzsche, Frederich. Thus Spake Zarathustra. Trans. by R.L. Hollingdale. Harmondsworth: Penguin Books,
1968.
Sartre, Jean-Paul. Being and Nothingness. Trans. by H. Barnes. New York: Washington Square Press, 1966.
Schooley, Bernal. Immerse. n.p., 1997.
Tillich, Paul. The Courage To Be. London: Collins, 1970.
Notes
1) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 38. See also Bahá’í World Faith, 262.
2) The Proumulgation of Universal Peace 113.
3) Ibid. 23. See also Bahá’í World Faith 249.
4) The Promulgation of Universal Peace, 23.
5) Ibid. 17. See also 49.
6) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh CXXII, 260.
7) Some Answered Questions, 187; see also Bahá’í World Faith, 305.
8) Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 131.

Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
9) BT 331. See also 185.
10) BT, 78. See also BT 246-250.
11) BT 78.
12 BN LXXIV. See also 95.
13) BN 89.
14) BT 137.
15) BT 458.
16) MB Vol. 1, 110.
17) Some Answered Questions 151. See also 208.
18) Some Answered Questions 208.
19) Some Answered Questions 153.
20) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh CLI, 319. See also Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 95.
21) BN 89.
22) BT 137.
23) Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh 116. See also Prayers and Meditations 49; Epistle to the Son of the Wolf 4.
24) MB Vol. 2, 35.
25) MB Vol. 1,111.
26) MB Vol. 1, 112.
27) See BT 53-4.
28) BT 305.
29) The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys, 32.
30) Some Answered Questions 198.
31) BT 286.
32) BT 185.
33) BT 186.
34) BT 373. See also BN 43.
35) Ibid.
36) BT 372, italics added.
37) BN 21.
38) BT 197.
39) BT119.
40) BT 197.
41) BT 286.
42) MB, Vol. 2, 101-2.
43) MB Vol. 1, 68.
44) Ibid.
45) BT 286.
46) MB Vol. 1, 52.
47) BT 353.
48) Bahá’í World Faith, 311.
49) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh LXXII, 139.
50) Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah LXXXVIII, 175.
51) Kitáb-i-Aqdas #126, 280.
52) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 127.
53) The Courage to Be 59.
54) BT 368.
55) Ibid.
56) Ibid.
57) BT 164.
58) Ibid.
59) BT 167.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
60) BT 220.
61) BT 222.
62) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, LXXV, 143; italics added.
63) BT 368.
64) BT 220.
65) BT 344-5.
66) BT 399.
67) BT 343.
68) The Secret of Divine Civilization 11.
69) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh CXX, 254. See also CXLIVII, 316.
70) Ibid.
71) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh CXVI, 247. See also LXV, 124.
72) Ibid. CXIV, 236, italics added.
73) BT 393.
74) BT 321; italics added.
75) BN 53.
76) Prayers and Meditations 177. See also Prayers and Meditations 208, 251; Gleanings from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh XIV, 29; XCIV, 193; CXXII, 260.
77) BT 321.
78) Selections from the Writings of the Báb 217.
79) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 262.
80) Some Answered Questions 5.
81) Ibid., 278.
82) Paris Talks, 85. See also Some Answered Questions 278.
83) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XIV, 29.
84) BT 347.
85) BT 237.
86) BT 354.
87) BT 318.
88) BT 320.
89) BT 347.
90) BT 320.
91) BT 296.
92) An Existentialist Theology 139, italics added.
93) Some Answered Questions 233.
94) BT 310.
95) Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 76.
96) BT 310.
97) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh CXIV, 236.
98) BT 310.
99) The Hidden Words #32, from the Arabic.
100) Existentialism 29.
101) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh CXXII, 260. See also Some Answered Questions, chp. 64.
102) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XC, 177.
103) MB, Vol. 1, 164.
104) Truth and Revelation 77.
105) Existentialism 29.
106) Some Answered Questions 186.
107) Thus Spoke Zarathustra Bk. Four.
108) Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 141.
109) Ibid. 136.
110) BT 236.

Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
111) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh CVI, 213.
112) BT 236.
113) BT 163.
114) BT 237.
115) BT 241.
116) BT 238.
116) Some Answered Questions 248.
117) BN 537.
118) PE 21-23.
119) Ibid.
120) PE 22.
121) Ibid.
122) MB Vol 1, 210. See also 168, 169.
123) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, XIV 29.
124) See Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh CXXIV, 262.
125) The Kitáb-ˆqán 101. See also Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh LXXXII, 160.
126) Some Answered Questions, 220.
127) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh,LXXXII, 160, italics added. See also LXXXIII, 165; XCV,
195.
128) MB Vol. 1, 106.
129) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh LXXV, 143.
130) Ibid. LXXVII, 149.
131) Ibid. CI, 206.
132) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 332.
133) Ibid.
134) BT 325.
135) BT 223; 315.
136) BT 224; 307.
137) Some Answered Questions 220.
138) Ibid.
139) Heidegger, quoted in BN, 25.
140) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh CXL, 306. See also Gleanings from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh XVII, 40; XXIX, 71; XLVI, 100; LXXVI, 149; Paris Talks 74; Selections from the Writings of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá 86, 177, 186.
141) BT 163.
142) Ibid.
143) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh CVI, 213.
144) BT 237.
145) BT 227.
146) Paris Talks 18.
147) The Bible, Mark, 8: 36-38.
148) Some Answered Questions 220.
149) Bahá’í World Faith, 382.
150) Ibid.
151) MB Vol. 2, 86.
152) Ibid.
153) Ibid.
154) Ibid.
155) MB Vol. 2, 87.
156) Ibid.
157) Bahá’í World Faith 383.
158) The Hidden Words of Bahá’u’lláh from the Arabic, # 3.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
159) Bahá’í World Faith 383.
160) Ibid.
161) See Kluge “The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings.”
162) BN 57.
163) BT 264.
164) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh V, 9. See also XXV, 60; XXXV, 82; LXIV, 122.
165) Some Answered Questions 113.
166) Some Answered Questions 148. See also Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XCIII, 187; XCIV,
193.
167) BT 269.
168) BT 266.
169) Ibid.
170) Ibid.
171) Ibid.
172) BT 269.
173) BT 267.
174) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XCIII, 185.
175) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XC, 178.
176) The Bible, Deuteronomy, 29:4.
177) Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 130.
178) The Promulgation of Universal Peace 67.
179) Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá 132. See also Some Answered Questions, 177.

The Tablet to Hardegg (Law˙-i-Hirtík)
A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh to the Templer Leader Georg David Hardegg1
introduced and translated by Stephen Lambden
M
írzá Óusayn ‘Alí Núrí entitled Bahá’u’lláh (the “Splendor of God”, 1817-1892) Who
founded the Bahá’í Faith in the middle of the 19th century, addressed a number of
scriptural tablets (alwá˙) to Christians during the latest, West Galilean (Acre = Ar.
‘Akká’) period of His religious ministry (1868-1892 CE). Most notably His Law˙-i-Páp (Tablet
to Pope Pius IXth c.1869) and Law˙-i-Aqdas (“Most Holy Tablet,” late 1870s?) which was most
probably addressed to (“Dr.”) Fáris Effendi who had been converted to the Bahá’í religion by
Mullá Muhammad Nabíl-i-Zarandí (l831-1892) in Alexandria (in 1868).
It is now clear that the letter of Bahá’u’lláh commonly referred to as the Law˙-i-Hirtík was
also addressed to a Christian named Georg David Hardegg (=Hirtík) (1812-1879). During the
time of Bahá’u’lláh’s imprisonment in ‘Akká’,
Hardegg was the leader of the
Tempelgesellschaft (Association of Templers [alternatively, ‘Templars’]) community in Haifa.
On first coming to know something of the nature of the Law˙-i-Hirtík through the note on
it in ‘Abd al-Óamíd Ishráq Khávarí’s Ganj-i-sháygán,2 (and since it had not been published), I
wrote to the Bahá’í World Centre in Haifa requesting a copy for detailed study. On receipt of
a typed copy (cf. text below) I began to try to work out what the consonants H-R-T-K might
signify, as they were evidently neither indicative of an Arabic nor a Persian construction.
Ignoring the pointing and guessing that it might indicate the name of the recipient of the let-
ter, the name Hardegg eventually sprang to mind. I then consulted Moojan Momen’s The Bábí
and Bahá’í Religions and was delighted to find that what was obviously a very garbled transla-
tion of the Law˙-i-Hirtík had been forwarded by the missionary Rev. John Zeller (c.1830-1902)
to the English Church Missionary Society and identified as a letter of Bahá’u’lláh to Hardegg.3
Furthermore, as Zeller’s letter forwarding Bahá’u’lláh’s Law˙-i-Hirtík was dated July 8 1872, it
may be inferred that the Law˙-i-Hirtík was written between late 1868 (when both Bahá’u’lláh
and Hardegg arrived in ‘Akká’ and Haifa respectively) and 8th July 1872. It was thus most prob-
ably between late 1871 and early 1872 (=1288-1289 AH) that Bahá’u’lláh addressed this Tablet
to the Templer leader.
Hardegg and the Tempelgesellschaft
The Tempelgesellschaft was founded by the German theologian and polemicist Christoph
Hoffmann (b. Leonberg 1815 d. Jerusalem 1885) whose religious orientation was rooted in
German Pietism of an highly chiliastic nature. Influenced by the belief that God’s judgement
and the parousia (‘presence’, return) of Christ were at hand, and critical of the “conventional
Christianity” of his day, he came, whilst residing in Ludwigsberg in the early 1850’s, to advo-
cate the creation of the “people of God” (Ger. das Volk Gottes). He was apparently influenced
either by events of the Crimean War (1853-6) or the belief that the Ottoman Empire was crum-
bling, in such a way that he conceived the idea that he and his people might become heirs to the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
biblical promises. He elaborated a theory centering upon the [ Jerusalem] Temple and its
restoration and dreamed of a mass emigration to Palestine.
In 1854 such visionary ideas led Hoffmann to establish the Gesellschaft für Sammlung des
Volkes Gottes in Jerusalem (The Association for the Assembling of God’s People in Jerusalem).
In this he was aided by his associate Georg David Hardegg a native and merchant of
Ludwigsberg, who had turned to mysticism after being imprisoned for revolutionary activities.
By the mid-1850s Hoffmann and Hardegg had managed to enlist around 10,000 members. An
attempt was made via the Frankfurt Assembly to petition Sultan ‘Abd al-Majíd (Ottoman Sultan
from 1839-1861) for permission to settle in Palestine. This petition failed and the members of
the association had to content themselves with the establishment of a settlement near Marbach
(1856). Four of the leaders of the movement, including Hoffmann and Hardegg, visited
Palestine in 1858. To some extent they came to realize the largely impractical nature of their
eschatologically oriented ambitions. Then, in 1859, the leaders of “God’s people” were formal-
ly expelled from the National Evangelical Church. Consequently, in 1861, they set up their own
distinctive religious body at Kirschenhardhof, the Deutsche Tempel (The German Temple).
Hoffmann acted as spiritual leader and Hardegg as provisional secular leader, with an adviso-
ry council of 12 elders.
By 1867, numbers had dwindled to just 3,000, including women and children. Despite this,
in 1868 a group of Templer families made an abortive attempt to settle in the Nahalal area.
Though by this time a bitter antagonism had come to exist between Hoffmann and Hardegg,
it was decided to emigrate to Palestine and attempt to gain support for the movement from
there. Thus, both Hoffmann and Hardegg arrived at Haifa on the 30th of October 1868. They
began establishing, amidst considerable local opposition and difficulty, an initially agricultur-
al settlement. A few dozen Templer families from Württemberg (S. Germany) settled at the foot
of the western cape of Mt. Carmel. According to Katz they were “joined by kindred families
of German origin from southern Russia, and by some who had emigrated to America and
become citizens, mainly from New York state” (Katz 1994:263).
In 1869 Hoffmann migrated to Jaffa where he came to establish a school and a hospital. By
1874 the breach between Hoffmann and Hardegg was such that the latter founded his own
Temple Unity having gained the support of about one third of the perhaps 200 (?) members of
the Haifa community. These supporters of Hardegg subsequently returned to the (German)
Evangelistic Church, though the Haifa Templers under new leadership continued to prosper.
They contributed notably to the modernization and improvement of local Haifa conditions.
Despite sometimes marked local opposition from Muslims and Christian Arabs, the number of
Haifa Templers rose from about 300 in the early 1880s to around 750 at the time of the out-
break of the First World War (1914).5
Among the letters contained in J. M. Emmerson’s travelogue entitled New York to the
Orient (1886) is one that includes details about local circumstances in Haifa and Acre includ-
ing the position of the “German Colony” (=Templars):
One of the most noteworthy and interesting features of Haifa is the settlement here of
group of Germans, known as the German Colony. They came here some twenty-five years
ago, being prompted to emigrate thither by a religious sentiment. There are three distinct
colonies of them in Palestine—at Jerusalem, Jaffa, and Haifa—consisting of about one
thousand members. The colony here [at Haifa] numbers some three hundred persons, and
they are in many respects a remarkable people. The appearance of the part of the city they
occupy is in striking contrast with the main town in that it is regularly laid out, and is

The Tablet to Hardegg
clean and orderly. These colonists are the only people who have ever come to live in
Palestine who are self-supporting. (Emmerson 1887:113).6
Hardegg and the Bahá’í religion
As previously indicated, Bahá’u’lláh, along with over 60 followers and members of His fam-
ily, arrived as prisoners at ‘Akká’ on August 31st 1868 some 40 days before Hoffmann and
Hardegg arrived at Haifa to found their colony. Though at first subject to strict confinement
within the barracks as decreed by Sul†án ‘Abd al-‘Azíz, He had, by late 1871, managed to estab-
lish Himself in the house of ‘Údí Khammár in the heart of the Christian quarter of ‘Akká’.
From there, Bahá’u’lláh succeeded in gaining the devotion of a number of local notables,
including Shaykh Ma˙múd ‘Arrábí (d. late 1890s, later Muftí of ‘Akká’).
Hardegg came into contact with the Bahá’ís in Haifa and ‘Akká’ before Bahá’u’lláh’s move to
the House of ‘Údí Khammár. Jakob Schumacher (1825-1891; American consular agent for Haifa
and Acre for almost twenty years), a naturalized American citizen of German origin (Katz,
1994:120) and Templer who became head of the Haifa colony after Hardegg, wrote the follow-
ing (partially cited) letter published in the official Templer publication Süddeutsche Warte of
June 29 1871:
I can give notice of yet another spiritual phenomenon which can strengthen our belief.
This concerns 70 Persians, who have been banished to ‘Akká’ on account of their beliefs.
Mr. Hardegg has already spent considerable time and effort trying to discover the actual
basis of their belief, and had dealings with them through an interpreter just yesterday.
(cited Momen, op. cit., 236).
Shortly after the publication of Schumacher’s note on the Bahá’ís, an article by Hardegg him-
self, dated June 15 1871, was published in the same organ of the Templers for 20 July 1871.
This article provides some details of Hardegg’s efforts to understand Bahá’í doctrine and his-
tory. Hardegg also refers to an interview he had in ‘Akká’ on 2 June 1871 with Bahá’u’lláh’s
eldest son ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (1844-1921), having failed to gain an interview with Bahá’u’lláh him-
self. He also notes his contacts with the Bahá’ís of Haifa and records his impression that “these
people, despite all the obscurity of their knowledge, were seeking the truth” (cited, Momen,
ibid, 237). Hardegg most likely made other trips to ‘Akká’ in order to investigate Bahá’í beliefs
and attempt to interest or convert the Bahá’ís to Christianity.
The missionary James J. Huber (1826-1893), who resided at Nazareth during the 1870s, has
recorded in a letter dated November 28 1872 that Hardegg had invited him to accompany him
on a visit to the ‘Akká’ Bahá’ís. They travelled together to ‘Akká’ in October 1872 having been
promised an interview with Bahá’u’lláh by some of the Bahá’ís. Perhaps as a result of
Bahá’u’lláh’s withdrawal in the house of ‘Údí Khammár following Bahá’í-Azalí tensions and the
misdeeds of certain Bahá’ís which culminated in the murder of several Azalis.7
Hardegg’s desire to gain an interview with Bahá’u’lláh has been referred to by Bahá’u’lláh
Himself in a scriptural Tablet (Law˙) which was perhaps written around 1875 and addressed to
Óájjí Mírzá Óaydar ‘Alí Isfahání (d. Haifa 1920) (cf. Ganj,172-3). In it Bahá’u’lláh stated that
all the [Holy] Books “make mention of the appearance of the Promised One in the Holy Land”.
He alludes to the Templers who came from afar to settle in the regions of the blessed Holy
Land. Calling to mind the well-known German Templer inscription Der Herr ist nahe [1871],”
meaning, “God is nigh” (cf. Ruhe, op. cit. 193n) the Templers are represented as having said
Ωuhúr nazdík ast, “The theophany [manifestation] is nigh and we have come that we might
attain unto it (his presence).” Nevertheless, Bahá’u’lláh adds, they remain in great heedlessness.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
None of the Templers had become Bahá’ís. Reference is then made to Hardegg and to the writ-
ing or revelation of the Law˙-i-Hirtík:
A few years ago their leader [Hardegg] desired to attain [My] presence but this request did
not find acceptance in the most-holy court.8 Nonetheless, a sublime and Most-Holy scrip-
tural Tablet (Law˙-i-amna’-i-aqdas) was specifically sent down for him. In that Tablet was
established that which enableth every righteous one to attain salvation and every wayfarer
to reach the goal. Yet the confirmation of the utterance, “Let none touch it save those who
are pure” was manifest for they did not attain even a drop of the ocean of its significances.
(cited Ganj, 172-3)
Though Bahá’u’lláh represents the 19th century Templers as a people who failed to understand
or respond to his message, the Bahá’ís seem to have had cordial relations with them. Bahá’u’lláh
Himself, on several occasions, perhaps had personal contact with them in the course of His
several trips to Haifa during the 1880s and early 1890s.

The Tablet to Hardegg
The Law˙-i-Hirtík*
[I]
In the name of God, the Most Holy.
[1]
Thy sealed letter arrived before the Wronged One.
[2]
There from did We catch a fragrance of thy sincerity towards God,
the Protector, the Self-Subsisting.
[3]
We entreat God that He might inform thee of that which is
concealed in an inscribed Tablet;
[4]
might enable thee to hearken
unto the cooing of the Dove upon the branches
[5]
and the murmuring of the Water of Life
which hath flowed with Wisdom and Explanation
from the spring of the Will of the King of Existence.
[II]
[1]
O beloved one!
It is necessary that thine eminence contemplate the Word of God,
the grandeur and sweetness of which sufficeth all the worlds.
[2]
The first of those who believed in the Spirit [ Jesus]
was enraptured by the Word of his Lord
and through it turned and believed, detached from whatsoever
the people possess.
* This is a provisional translation for presentation and discussion at 'Irfán Colloquia. It is not to be repro-
duced or further distributed in any form or medium.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
[3]
Such action is incumbent upon the
fishes of the Most Great Ocean.
[III]
[1]
O Thou informed mystic knower
and insightful religious leader!
[2]
Know thou that base passion hath hindered most mortals
from turning their faces unto God, the King of Names.
[3]
Such, however, as gaze with the eye of insight,
shall bear witness and seeing, exclaim,
‘Praise be unto my Lord, the Most Exalted.’
[4]
Land and sea hath rejoiced at the Beneficence of God.
[5]
The nations were given the promise regarding
the appearance of the Healer of Infirmities.
He, assuredly, is the expected Builder of the Temple.
[6]
Blessed be such as are possessed of mystic knowledge.
[7]
When the appointed time came, Carmel cried out,
trembling as if shaken by the breezes of the Lord,
‘Blessed be such as hearken!’
[8]
Should anyone incline with the ear of the inner nature,
the same would assuredly hear the cry from the Rock.
[9]
It, verily, proclaimeth in a most elevated voice
and beareth witness unto the Eternal God.

The Tablet to Hardegg
[10]
Blessed be such as catch a fragrance of the Utterance
and turn unto the Kingdom,
detached from the contingent world.
[11]
When that which is mentioned in the Holy Books
hath come to pass,
thou shalt see the people beholding but not understanding.
[IV]
[1]
O beloved one!
Behold the mystery of reversal
on account of the symbol of the Ruler
for He hath made their exalted ones their lowly ones
and their lowly ones their exalted ones.
[2]
And call thou to mind the fact that when Jesus came
He was rejected by the divines, the learned and the educated.
[3]
He who was a mere fisherman [Peter],
on the other hand, entered the Kingdom.
[4]
This is the mystery of what was mentioned
in the heart of the words
by means of intimations and allusions.
[V]
[1]
Great, great is the Cause!
Peter the Apostle,
in spite of his excellence and the eminence of his station,
held back his tongue when asked about it.
[2]

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
Shouldst thou consider sincerely
what hath heretofore come to pass,
for the sake of the Lord alone,
thou wilt assuredly see the Light shining before thine eyes.
[3]
The Truth is too manifest to be wrapped up in veils,
the Path too open to be enveloped in darkness
and the Certainty too evident to be obscured by doubts.
[4]
Those who have been held back are the ones who have
followed their lusts and are today slumbering, sleeping.
[5]
They shall wake up and run around but find no place to hide.
[6]
Blessed be such as catch the fragrance of Truth,
then awaken, that they might attain whatsoever the sincere
servants attained.
[VI]
[1]
Know thou that We saw the exterior letter ßád
in the word “Peace” (Ar. ßul˙).
[2]
It, verily, was adorned with
the ornament of the upright letter “A” (alif)
and is what hath assuredly been mentioned
in an Outspread Tablet.
[3]
And upon the manifestation of the lights of
that Divine Word,
the Gate of Heaven was opened
and the Kingdom of Names appeared.
[4]

The Tablet to Hardegg
And this matter was completed through the letter “H” (há)
after which it was united to the leveled letter “A” (alif)
which was adorned with the Point (of the letter “B,” bá)
from which the Treasured Name, the Hidden Mystery
and the Guarded Symbol (Bahá’) emerged.
[5]
It, verily, is the Point
from which existence hath appeared
and unto which it hath returned.
[VII]
[1]
Then We saw the Word which uttered a Word
which every community found to be according to its own
tongue and language.
[2]
When that Word was uttered,
a Sun shone forth from the Horizon of its Announcement,
the Lights of which eclipsed the sun of the heavens.
[3]
It said,
‘The head of the seventy
hath been adorned
with the crown of the forty
and been united with
the seven before the ten.’
[4]
Then it lamented and it said,
‘What is this that I see?
The house doth not recognize its master
neither doth the son pay heed unto his father;
nor likewise is the hopeful seeker cognizant of his
place of refuge and haven.’

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
[VIII]
[1]
O thou who soarest in
the atmosphere of mystic knowledge!
[2]
Whoso knoweth the one in whose Logos-Person
what floweth yet exhibiteth solidity;
[3]
what soareth yet is at rest;
[4]
what is manifest yet concealed
[5]
and what is resplendent yet veiled,
[6]
shall be seized by the attraction of the divine Effulgences
to such an extent that he will fly on the wings of yearning
in the atmosphere of nearness, holiness and reunion.
[IX]
[1]
With regard to that which thine eminence hath mentioned
concerning the darkness.
[2]
We bear witness that it hath encompassed the creatures.
[3]
Blessed be he who hath been illumined by the Light
which shineth forth from
the horizon of the Mercy of his Lord, the Most Holy.
[4]
The darkness is the vain imaginings by virtue of which
the people were prevented from turning towards the Kingdom
when the King of the Divine Realm
appeared with the Cause of God.

The Tablet to Hardegg
[X]
[1]
As for what thou hast mentioned,
that a certain person hath supposed
that there are no differences between Us
with regard to the Spirit [Jesus].
[2]
This is indeed the truth inasmuch as the Spirit [Jesus]
is sanctified beyond being overwhelmed by differences
or encompassed by symbolic expressions.
[3]
He, verily, is the Light of Oneness among mankind
and the sign of the Ancient of Days among the peoples.
[4]
He who turneth unto Him [Jesus]
hath turned unto He [God]
who sent Him [Jesus]
and he who rejecteth Him hath
rejected He who caused Him
to be made manifest and to speak forth.
[5]
He hath ever been what He was
and will ever remain the same as what He was;
only the Effulgence of His theophany in the Mirrors
varies on account of Their different forms and colors.
[XI]
[1]
O beloved one!
Should a hint of the secret which was veiled in mystery be disclosed,
the hearts of those who cling unto what they possess
and cast away what is with God would be thrown into confusion.
[2]
If thine eminence would ponder upon what We have set forth for thee

and rise up according to what hath been mentioned with the greatest steadfastness,
there would, verily, be manifest from thee what was previously made manifest.
[XII]
[1]
O beloved one!
This Bird is ensnared betwixt
the talons of oppression and hypocrisy,
and seest no nest wherein He might dwell
nor any retreat unto which he might wing his way.
[2]
In such a state doth He summon mankind unto everlasting life.
[3]
Blessed be the attentive ear!
We ask God that He might bring us together in the same place
and might assist us in what He loveth
and is well-pleasing unto Him.
Bibliography
‘Abdu’l-Hamíd Ishráq Khavárí (comp.), Má’idah-yi Ásmání. 9+1 vols, Tehran: MMMA, 129 BE /1972-3.
———. Ganj-i-sháygán. Teheran: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 124.BE
———. Ra˙íq-i-Makhtúm. 2 vols. 130-1 BE
———. Qámús-i-ˆgán, vol. 4. Tihran: 128 BE/1972 CE.
al-Ahsá’í, Shaykh A˙mad. al-Risála al-Rashtiyya in Jawami’ al-Kilam. Tabriz 2 vols. 1273/1856 & 1276/1859)
vol 1 pt. 2 pp. 103 ff.; partially cited by Bahá’u’lláh in the Law˙-i-Qiná Majmú‘ [MAM] 75-6 and Karím
Khán-i-Kirmání, Majmu‘at al-Rasá’il vol. 61 (Kirman: Sa’adat, nd), 51-53.
Anawati, Georges. 1967. ‘Le Nom Supreme de Dieu’ in Atti del Terzo Congresso Di Studi Arabi e Islamici
(Napoli, 1967) 7-58.
Bab, The (Sayyid ‘Alí Muhanmmad Shirazi). Qayyúm al-asmá’ (Commentary on Súrat Yúsuf). Browne Or. MSS
no. F.II (9).
———. Bayán-i-fársí. n.p. n.d.
Bahá’u’lláh. [al-] Kitáb al-Aqdas. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre 1992/5
———. Law˙-i-Khi†áb bi-Shaykh Muhammad Taqí Mujtahid-i-Isfahání Ma’ruf bi Najafí. Cairo: nd., 1338/1919-
20.
———. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. Wilmette, Illinois, 1971.
———. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1949.
———. Kitáb-i-ˆqán. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1961
———. Law˙-i-Hirtík. Haifa Typescript in 1982 UHJ letter to Lambden cited in Bahá’í Studies Bulletin 2/1
(June 1983): 35-36. printed text in La’áli’ al-Óikma (ed. Behmardi) vol. 3 (see book).
———. Law˙-i-Qiná (‘Tablet of the Veil’ ) in Majmu‘a-yi Alwá˙-i-mubárka ha∂rat-i-Bahá’u’lláh [=MAM]. Cairo
19XX Rep. Wilmette, Illinois: BPT., 1978 pp. 67-85. Kitáb-i-Mubín. Bombay: ? 1896.
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four

The Tablet to Hardegg
———. Alvá˙-i-názilah-yi khi†ab bi mulúk va ru’asá-yi ar∂. Tehran: MMMA?, 124 BE
———. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1978.
———. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-Aqdas. Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 137/1980.
(Ar. & Per.)
———. La’áli’ al-Óikma (ed. V. Behmardi) vol. 3, Brasil: Editoria Bahá’í, 148/1991.
al-Búní, Mu˙yí Dín. Shams al-ma’árif al-kubra. Beirut: Al-Maktabah al-thaqáfiyya. n.d.
Carmel, Alex. 1973. Die Siedlungen der württenbergischen Templer in Palästina, 1868-1918. Stuttgart: W.
Kohlhammer Verlag.
———. 1975 ‘The German Settlers in Palestine and their relations with the local Arab Population and the Jewish
Community 1868-1918’, in M. Ma’oz (ed), Studies on Palestine during the Ottoman Period (Jerusalem,
1975), 442-465;
Emmerson, J.M. 1887. New York to the Orient. New York: E.R. Felton & Co.
Gulpaygání, Abú al-Fadl-i. Kitáb al-Fará’i∂. Np. nd. (Tehran:XXX, 1896).
———. Sharh-i-áyát-i-Muwarrikha. Shanghai, 1925.
Hirschberg, J. W. 1950-51. ‘The Sources of Muslim Traditions concerning Jerusalem’ in Rocznik
Orientalistyczny, Vol.17 (1950-51), 314-50.
Kark, Ruth. 1994. American Consuls in the Holy Land, 1832-1914. Jerusalem: Magnes Press.
Kirmání, Mírzá Muhammad Karím Khán-i-. Risála fí jawáb al-Shaykh Óusayn ibn al-Shaykh Mu˙ammad al-
Mazídí in Majmú‘at al-Rasá’il. vol 61. Kirman ( n.d.) pp. 51-3.
Kohlberg, Etan. 1992. A Medieval Muslim Scholar at Work: Ibn Táwús and his Library. Leiden: E.J. Brill.
Kolb, C. ‘Friends of the Temple’ in New Schaff-Herzog Encyclopedia of Religious Knowledge. Vol. lV:397-8
MacEoin, Denis. 1980. Ritual and Semi-Ritual Practices in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions. Lancaster Bahá’í
Studies Seminar, 1980 (unpublished paper cf. 1994).
———. 1982. Some Bahá’í and Shaykhí interpretations of ‘the Mystery of Reversal.’ Bahá’í Studies Bulletin 1:1
(June 1982), 11-23.
———. 1994. Rituals in Babism and Bahá’ísm (Pembroke Persian Papers 2). London: British Academic Press.
Majlisí, Muhammad Báqir. Bihár al-anwár. 2 vol. 11 Beirut: Dár al-I˙yá’ al-Turáth al-‘Arabí, 1403/1983.
Mázandarání, Mírzá Assad-Alláh, Fá∂il-i-. Asrár al-athár. 5 vols. Tihran: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1968-74
Momen, Moojan. 1981. The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions. 1844-1944. Oxford: George Ronald, 1981.
Oliphant, Laurence. 1887. Haifa or Life in Modern Palestine. Edinburgh: William Blackwood, 1887.
Rafati, Vahid. 1979. The Development of Shaykhí Thought in Shí’í Islam. Ph. D. dissertation, University of
California, 1979.
Rashtí, Sayyid KáΩim. Shar˙ al-Khutba al-Tutunjiyya. Tabriz, 1270/1853-4.
Ruhe, David S. 1982. Door of Hope, A Century of the Bahá’í Faith in the Holy Land. Oxford: George Ronald.
Shoghi Effendi. The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1947.
———. God Passes By. Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974.
———. The Promised Day is Come. Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1977.
———. Law˙-i-qarn (“Centenial Tablet”), Tehran: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 134 BE. A letter dated 101 BE/1944-
5 and addressed to the Bahá’ís of the East.
Soucek, Priscilla. 1976. ‘The Temple of Solomon in Islamic Legend and Art’ in J. Gutmann (Ed), The Temple
of Solomon. Missoula Montana: Scholars Press, 1976, 72-123.
Ussishkin, Ann. ‘Templers (Tempelgesellschaft)’ Encyclopedia Judaica. vol. 15 (Jerusalem: Keter Pub. House,
1972), cols. 994-996.
Whitley, W. T. ‘Friends of the Temple’ Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics (6:141-2;
Winkler, H. A. 1930. Siegel und Charaktere in der Muhammedanischen Zauberei. Berlin, Leipzig: Walter de
Gruyter & Co.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
Notes
1) This article and the provisional translation of the Law˙-i-Hirtík was first published in the Bahá’í Studies
Bulletin vol. 2/1 (June 1983), 32-63 (© Hurqalya Publications). It has been very slightly revised since that
time. This printing is without the detailed commentary which can be found in revised and expanded form
on the author’s (forthcoming) personal website which contains an electronic reprint of the whole Bahá’í
Studies Bulletin (1982).
2) Refer, Ganj, 172-3. Here Ishráq Khávarí mistakenly identifies the followers of the recipient of the Law˙-i-
Hirtík with the Millerites, the followers of William Miller (1782-1849 CE).
3) Refer Momen, The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions. 216-8.
4) In 1871 Hardegg’s son Ernst became US consular agent in Jaffa. There he remained in office until 1909 when
he resigned at the age of 70 (Kark, 1994:114).
5) On the Tempelgesellschaft refer to the entries in the bibliography below and Whitley, ‘Friends of the
Temple,’ in Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics (6:141-2; Kolb, ‘Friends of the Temple’; Ussishkin,
‘Templers (Tempelgesellschaft)’ Enc. Judaica” 15:994-996 (this article is especially useful for details on 20th
century Templer history); Carmel, Die Siedlungen; idem, ‘The German Settlers in Palestine...” 442-465; cf.
also Oliphant, Haifa or Life in Modern Palestine, 17ff; Momen, The Bábí and Bahá’í religions 215f, 503,
506f, 521. For some useful information on contacts between Bahá’ís and Templers see Ruhe, Door of Hope,
index.
6) A recent booklet put out by the Haifa Tourist Board entitled, ‘Bahá’í Shrine and Gardens on Mount Carmel,
Haifa-Israel’ contains two pages which illustrate the Haifa project, “the restoration and development of the
main axis of the German Templar Colony”. This small booklet contains some excellent photographs and
details about the 19th century Templer building project and its anticipated restoration.
7) The Azalis are the followers of Bahá’u’lláh’s younger half-brother Mírzá Ya˙yá (c.1830-1914) who was enti-
tled Subh-i Azal (The Morn of Eternity) and had been exiled to Cyprus from Turkey in 1868.
8) The interview with Bahá’u’lláh did not materialise. Instead Hardegg and Huber conversed with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’
(cf. Momen, op. cit., 218).

The Tablet of the Bell (Law˙-i-Náqús) of Bahá’u’lláh
or The Tablet of “Praised Be Thou, O ‘He’!”
(Law˙-i-Subhánaka yá Hu[wa])
introduced and translated by Stephen Lambden
Introductory note
Miscellaneous Bahá’í sources indicate that the wholly Arabic Law˙-i-náqús (“Tablet of the
Bell”) or (after the constant refrain) Law˙-i-subhánaka yá-hú (“Tablet of Praised be Thou, O
He!) is to be dated to 1280/1863 CE or to the period of Bahá’u’lláh’s residence in Istanbul
(Constantinople). The title Law˙-i-náqús derives from the words “Strike the Bell” (sing. náqús)
in the opening (post introductory) line (see below). Bahá’u’lláh wrote this work in his own hand
on the evening of the ( lunar) celebration of the declaration of the Báb on the 5th of Jumádí al-
Awwál 1280 AH = October 19th 1863 CE. It was apparently on that occasion that Áqá
Muhammad ‘Alí Tambaku Furush-i-Ißfahání precipitated this revelation through the intermedi-
ary of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (letter of Shoghi Effendi to Mírzá Badí‘u’lláh Ágahabadihi. cited Ganj, 71;
Revelation of Bahá’u’llah 2:18).
The non-qur’anic Arabic loan-word náqús derives from (Christian) Aramaic-Syriac
(naposha/naqqús) and indicates a pierced wooden clapper-board which had a gong or bell-like
function in making a noise when hit with a stick. It was used in Eastern Christian regions for
calling the faithful to worship or to other religious functions. Around (Eastern) Christian
churches the naqús was sounded or clapped and, like the Islamic mu‘adhdhin, called the faith-
ful to assemble for prayer. Perhaps this sound was heard by Bahá’u’lláh around Christian
churches in Istanbul.
In Bábí-Bahá’í scripture and Shí‘í/Shaykhí literatures there are various references to the
eschatological náqús. In a number of His Writings Bahá’u’lláh personifies Himself as the
“Bell” (náqús) which summons the faithful to enter the Abhá paradise or Kingdom of God (the
Bahá’í Faith). His Revelation is the ringing of the “Bell” of his Person which invites humankind
to the assemblage of paradise. One may recall, for example, the following opening lines from
the second Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh to Napoleon III:
O King of Paris! Tell the priest to ring the bells (lit. ‘strike the clapper-boards’ = nawáqís)
no longer.  By God, the True One! The Most Mighty Bell (al-náqús al-afkham = Bahá’u’lláh)
hath appeared in the form of Him Who is the Most Great Name (al-ism al-a‘Ωam), and the
fingers of the will of Thy Lord, the Most Exalted, the Most High, toll it out in the heav-
en of Immortality, in His name, the All-Glorious (al-abhá) . . .
trans. Shoghi Effendi, Promised Day is Come, 29
In making the following tentative provisional translation I have consulted the Arabic texts
of the Law˙-i-náqús published in Adí‘ah-yi hadrat-i-mahbúb (Cairo 1339/1920-1) 141-153 and
Risálih-yi ayyám-i-tis‘ih (rep. Los Angeles: Kalimat Press, 1981) 100-106 as well as various

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
unpublished manuscripts. I have also benefited from consulting the previous translations of
‘Alí Kuli Khan and Marzieh Gail (unpublished) and that of Denis MacEoin (Rituals in Bábísm
and Bahá’ísm [London 1994] App. XXVI, pp. 169-172). The following translation is not, how-
ever, based upon a critically established text nor is it in any way superior to those just men-
tioned. As the translation is fairly literal it will at times be virtually identical to previous ren-
derings.
In diverse ways and in cryptic, mystical, Sufistic language Bahá’u’lláh celebrates the power
of His recently, Ri∂ván-intimated ( late April early May 1863) theophanic status. As the secret-
ed “Monk of the Divine Unicity”, He is bidden by God to go some way toward disclosing His
being a supreme heavenly Maiden possessed of the power of divine revelation.
In line [3] and elsewhere in the Law˙-i-náqús, Bahá’u’lláh alludes to that portion of the Súrat
al-huriyya (‘Súra of the Maiden,’ the 29th sura of the Qayyúm al-asmá’ mid. 1844 CE) in which
the Báb makes reference to the partial yet stunning theophanic disclosure of a veiled, silken
clad houri characterised by resplendent beauty (al-bahá). Both lines 4 and 5, furthermore seem
to allude, for example, to the person of Bahá’u’lláh as a conjunction or incarnation of the let-
ters “B and “H” which constitute that Beauty-Splendour (Bahá) which, according to a well-
known prophetic hadíth (greatly beloved of Rúzbihán Baqlí Shírází d.1209 CE) is his pre-exis-
tent Reality—the Prophet Muhammad is reckoned to have said “The Red Rose is expressive of
the Beauty-Splendour of God” (al-ward al-a˙mar min bahá’ Alláh).

The Tablet of the Bell
Law˙-i-Náqús*
[0]
He is the Almighty
[1]
This [Tablet] is the Meadow of Paradise
wherein the melody of God,
the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting,
hath been exalted.
[2]
Therein hath Houris [Maidens] of Eternity (huriyyát al-khuld)
been empowered whom none hath touched save God,
the Almighty, the Sanctified.
[3]
Therein doth the Nightingale of Eternal Subsistence
warble upon the branches of
the Lote-Tree of the Extremity (sidrat al-muntahá)
with such a melody as hath
bedazzled discerning souls (al-‘uqúl).
[4]
Therein is that through which the poor and needy (al-fuqará’)
are made to approach
the shore of independent self-sufficiency (shatí al-ghaná’)
and the people obtain guidance unto the Word of God (kalimát Alláh). [5]
[5]
Such, indeed, is the certain Truth!
[1]
In Thy Name “He”
for Thou, verily, art “He,” O “He”!
O Monk of the Divine Unicity! (ráhib al-a˙adiyya)
Strike the Bell! (al-náqús)
* This is a provisional translation for presentation and discussion at 'Irfán Colloquia. It is not to be repro-
duced or further distributed in any form or medium.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
for the Day of God hath been realized
and the Beauty of the Divine Might (jamál al-‘izz)
been enthroned upon a Throne of Luminous Holiness.
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[2]
O Húd of the Verdict! (al-˙ukm)
Sound the Bugle (al-náqúr)
in the name of God, the Mighty, the Noble,
for the Embodiment of Sanctity (haykal al-quds)
hath been established upon a Mighty,
Transcendent Seat (kursí).
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[3]
O Countenance Eternally Subsistent! (†al‘at al-baqá’)
Pluck with the Fingertips of the Spirit (anámil al-rú˙)
upon a wondrous, holy Rebec (rabáb)
for the Beauty of the Divine Ipseity (jamál al-huwiyya)
is manifested in resplendent silken attire.
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[4]
O Angel of Light! (malak al-núr)
Sound the trumpet (al-súr)
in this theophany (al-Ωuhúr)
for the letter “H” (al-há’) rideth
upon a mighty, pre-existent letter [“B”] (bi-harf ‘izz qadím).
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!

The Tablet of the Bell
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[5]
O Nightingale of Resplendence! (‘andálib al-saná’)
Warble upon the twigs in this Ri∂wán
according to the Name of the One Beloved (al-˙abíb)
for the Roseate Beauty (jamál al-ward)
hath been manifested from behind a thick curtain.
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[6]
O Nightingale of Paradise! (bulbul al-firdaws)
Sing out upon the branches in this wondrous era (zamán badí‘)
for God hath divulged himself (tajalla Alláh)
unto all that inhabit the created dominion (al-mulk).
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[7]
O Bird of Eternity! (†ayr al-baqá’)
Speed in this expanse (al-hawá’)
for the Bird of Fidelity (†ayr al-wafá’)
hath flown in a munificent, divinely intimate firmament (fada’).
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[8]
O Denizens of Paradise! (ahl al-firdaws)
Hallow ye and chant with the most beautiful,
sweet voice for the melody of God (naghmat Alláh)
hath been uplifted from beyond an elevated,
sanctified Pavilion (surádiq).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[9]
O Denizens of the Kingdom! (ahl al-malakut)
Chant ye in the Name of the Beloved One (al-ma˙búb)
for the Beauty of the Cause (jamál al-amr)
hath sparkled forth from behind
ornamented, luminous veils.
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[10]
O Denizens of the Kingdom of Divine Names! (malakút al-asmá’)
Ornament ye the very uttermost Heights (rafárif al-aqsá’) [of Paradise]
for the Greatest Name hath ridden upon
a sanctified, mighty Cloud.
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[11]
O Denizens of the Omnipotent Kingdom of Divine Attributes (ahl jabarút al-sifát)
in the Abhá horizon! (ufuq al-abhá’)
Be ye prepared for the Encounter with God (liqá’ Alláh)
for the sanctified breezes (nasmát al-quds)
hath wafted from the Hidden Retreat of the Divine Essence (makman al-dhát)
which is indeed a manifest Bounty.
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[12]
O Ri∂wán of the Divine Unicity! (ri∂wán al-ahadiyya)
Be enraptured within thyself

The Tablet of the Bell
for the Ri∂wán of God (Ri∂wán Alláh),
the Exalted, the Powerful, the All-Knowing
hath been made manifest.
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[13]
O Heaven of Might! (samá’ al-‘izz)
Render thanks unto God in thy very being
for the Heaven of Sanctity (samá’ al-quds)
hath been raised up in that Firmament (hawá’)
which is a subtly refined heart (qalb latíf).
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[14]
O Sun of the worldly dominion! (shams al-mulk)
Eclipse thy countenance
for the Sun of Eternal Subsistence (shams al-baqá’)
hath shed splendor from a horizon
which is a brilliant Dawn.
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[15]
O Earth of gnosis! (ard al-ma‘rifa)
Engulf thy mystic learning (ma‘árif)
for the Earth of Gnosis (ard al-ma‘rifa)
hath been expanded through the Logos-Self of God (nafs Alláh),
the Transcendent, the Mighty, the Munificent.
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[16]
O Lamp of the worldly dominion! (siráj al-mulk)
Extinguish thy very self, for the Lamp of God (siráj Alláh)
hath radiated within the Niche of Eternity (mishkat al-baqá’)
illuminating thereby the inhabitants of the heavens and of the earth.
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[17]
O oceans of the earth!
Be stilled of thy tempestuous waves
for the Crimson Sea (al-bahr al-ahmar)
surgeth through an innovative directive (bi-amr badí‘)
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[18]
O Peacock of the divine Oneness! (táwús al-ahadiyya)!
Shriek out within the thicket of the divine realm (ajamat al-láhút)
for the melody of God (naghmat Alláh)
hath become evident from every divinely proximate locale.
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[19]
O Bird of Perpetuity! (dík al-ßamadiyya)!
Be muted in the thicket of the Omnipotent Realm (ajamat al-jabarút)
for the Crier of God (munádí Alláh)
crieth out from every unassailable locale (shatr maní‘).
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!

The Tablet of the Bell
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[20]
O Concourse of enraptured lovers! (malá’ al-ushsháq)
Good news for thy selves
in that the separation (al-firáq)
is completed and the promised Testament (al-mitháq)
hath come to pass;
the Loved One (al-ma‘shúq) hath been manifested
with a mighty, transcendent Beauty (jamál ‘izz maní‘).
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[21]
O Concourse of Gnostic initiates! (malá’ al-irfán)
Rejoice within thine inner realities for era of Renunciation (al-hijrán) is terminated,
certitude (al-íqán) is realized
and the Beauty of the Youth (jamál al-ghulám)
hath beamed forth with an holy ornament (bi-taraz al-quds)
in a Paradise of matchless name (firdaws ism makín).
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[22]
Praised be Thou, O my God,
I supplicate Thee by Thy [eschatological] Day (yawm)
through which all [previous] Days have been raised up
and in view of the fact that through It
[matters rooted in] primordial (al-awwalín) and latter day
[eschatological] (al-akharín) eras
have been brought to account.
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
[23]
And by Thy Name which Thou didst make a Sovereign
in the Omnipotent sphere of Names (jabarút al-asmá’)
as well as a Judge (hákim) over
whomsoever are in the heavens and on the earth[s].
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
By this means make Thou such persons to be independent (aghniyá’)
of all except Thee, associated with Thee
and detached from whatsoever is other than Thee
for Thou indeed art One Powerful, Mighty, Compassionate.
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[24]
Do Thou make them, O my God,
to be such as give assent to Thy Singleness (wahdániyya)
and who willingly concede Thy Uniqueness (firdániyya)
in such wise that they shall witness nothing but Thine Own Logos-Self
and envision none but Thee.
In this respect Thou, verily, art One Powerful, Mighty.
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[25]
Establish then in their hearts, O my Beloved,
the fiery warmth of Thy love
in such measure that it may burn away
the remembrance of all save Thee.
This such that they may witness within themselves
that Thou hath ever been in the Sublime Apex of Eternity,

The Tablet of the Bell
that there hath never been anything alongside Thee,
and that Thou art now the like of what Thou hath ever been.
No god is there except Thee, the Munificent.
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[26]
If such of Thy servants as desire to scale
the heights of Thy Divine Unity (tawhíd)
should content themselves with the mention of aught besides Thee,
confirmation of their realization of the Divine Oneness (hukm al-tawhíd)
would never be ratified
neither would the mode of the Divine Uniqueness (simat al-tafríd)
be truly affirmed within their being.
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”
[27]
So praised be Thou, O our God! O my God!
given this situation do Thou send down from the clouds of Thy Mercy
that which will purify the breasts of Thy lovers
and that which will sanctify the hearts of such as are enraptured by Thee.
Then exalt them through Thy loftiness
and render them triumphant over such as inhabit the earth.
This indeed is what Thou promised Thy beloved ones
through Thine indubitable utterance,
“We desire to shower Our favour (mann) upon
such as are enfeebled on earth
and to make them leaders [Imams] (a’imma)
and to make them Our heirs (al-wárithín)” (Qur’án 28:5).
So Praised be Thou O “He”!
O Thou Who art “He” Who is “He”!
O Thou besides Whom there is none other than “He.”

Lights of ‘Irfán

The Tablet of Maqsúd (Law˙-i-Maqsúd)
Guidance on human nature and leadership
Ramin Neshati
Introduction
T
he Tablet of Maqsúd is a monumentally significant missive in the corpus of Bahá’u’lláh’s
revelatory texts.1 It is addressed to a certain Mírzá Maqsúd, a Persian Bahá’í residing in
Syria. In this Tablet, transcribed2 by Mírzá Áqá Ján circa late-18813 at Bahjí, Bahá’u’lláh
amalgamates advice and admonition drawn from earlier tablets with some uniquely instructive
pronouncements on a host of noteworthy topics including human potential and its efflores-
cence through the knowledge of God, the achievement of peace by means of disarmament, the
demand that leadership and political statesmanship be based on wisdom, equity and justice,
and other related topics. As with most post-Aqdas era works, its tone is majestic and its themes
are of universal significance and interest. Shoghi Effendi Rabbani numbered this Tablet as
amongst those Bahá’u’lláh revealed to further explain the core precepts and principles of His
teachings, to reiterate previously proclaimed truths and to augment some of the laws of the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas.4 In this paper, I intend to elaborate on some of Bahá’u’lláh’s counsels and to
examine their relevance vis-à-vis contemporary global circumstances. Following a synopsis of
the Tablet, I will attempt to explore two of its overarching and inextricably-coupled concepts:
1.
The innate nobility of human nature and the means for the full realization of its
potential, and
2.
The essential attributes of leadership, their relevance to the pursuit of justice and
peace, and the duties devolved to a leader.
While these are not the only topics, nor do they comprise the sole arguments, of far-reach-
ing interest advanced by Bahá’u’lláh in this weighty Tablet, yet they succinctly and compre-
hensively encapsulate its core message. Bahá’u’lláh touches on many intriguing topics which,
owing to space constraints, will be omitted from this brief review to maintain focus on the
selected themes.
Synopsis
The following is an abridged, sequential outline of the Tablet:
Prophets are necessary intermediaries between God and creation. Mankind stands in need of
guidance from his creator, but God is invulnerable and self-sufficient. Without divine messen-
gers humanity remains oblivious to the trust bestowed upon him. Mankind is recognized as the
‘supreme Talisman’ (Tilism-i-a’zam), but he needs divine education for his true worth to be
uncovered and for his character to be polished and refined.
Bahá’u’lláh acknowledges the receipt of Maqsúd’s letter after showering prolific praise upon
Mu˙ammad, the prophet of Islam, and upon His kindred and companions.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
Concerned about the dismal state of human affairs, Bahá’u’lláh regrets and is mystified by
the irony of a heedless world turning a deaf ear to His healing message, while stigmatizing Him
with mischief for its own misfortunes.
The graciousness and the unified action of world leaders are preconditions for justice. On a
related note, reward and punishment form the twin pillars upon which world order is estab-
lished and which usher in just and equitable conditions for all who dwell on earth.
Reaffirming the notion of collective security and the promotion of peace and tranquility,
Bahá’u’lláh calls for a conclave of the world’s rulers and statesmen, led by the ‘Great Powers,’
to put up a united front against nefarious and aggressive elements in society. Armaments are
hence reduced and only maintained for defensive purposes. It is worth mentioning that He
acknowledges the need for a deterrent force as a counter-balance to would-be rogue regimes.
Reflecting on the necessity for a universal language and script, instituted through a consul-
tative process led by a representative group of scholars and leaders of thought, He makes its
promulgation and promotion incumbent upon all ‘men of insight.’
The exercise of justice, balanced by wisdom and common sense, is requisite to successful
statesmanship.
Bahá’u’lláh underscores the plea for unity and the abandonment of discord, estrangement
and the pursuit of selfish and self-preserving schemes.
Wisdom and common sense are the outcomes of consultation and compassion.
The pursuit of useful sciences, and not those that ‘begin with words and end in words,’ yield
optimum benefits to the civilized world. In effect, Bahá’u’lláh puts a damper on ventures in
mindless minutia such as those practiced by some Muslim ecclesiastics.
To avert injustice, moderation is mandatory upon all. This is especially applicable to those
in positions of power and influence.
Tolerance and righteousness are required for a true understanding of divine mysteries.
Learning and wisdom are as eyes giving sight to the body of mankind.
Speech must be influential and penetrating. Words should accompany deeds and be moder-
ated for best effect. Speech is endowed with a spirit and its misuse can be detrimental.
After responding to Maqsúd’s personal questions, Bahá’u’lláh ends the Tablet by urging and
encouraging the adoption of a virtuous life.
Let us now inquire into the two aforementioned themes: the nobility of human nature, and
the essential attributes and demands of leadership.
On human nature
Bahá’u’lláh hails mankind as the supreme talisman and reaffirms the divine conferral of a
latent gift to every soul. The realization of human aptitude and potential—that is, the discov-
ery of the latent gift—is contingent upon proper education. This education, by implication of
a spiritual nature,5 is comprised of exhortations, guidance, instructions and teachings brought
forth through the agency of the divine messengers, acting as intermediaries between the cre-
ator and the world of creation. The reason Bahá’u’lláh cites for the necessity of such an educa-
tion is mankind’s incapacity to fully comprehend (idrák) by himself that which is revealed in
the heavenly books. Spiritual education is a fundamental and constant human need and does
not vary with the appearance of successive messengers. Indeed, it is humanity’s inability and
impotence (ghásir, ájiz) to understand and comprehend the heavenly books sans the assistance

Tablet of Maqsúd
of God’s prophets that gives rise to the need for his spiritual education. Man, whom Bahá’u’lláh
has elsewhere termed ‘the most noble of all creation’ (ashraf-i-makhlúqát), is endued and
entrusted with mysterious and latent gifts. The discovery of the possession and the full real-
ization of that with which he is charged is not possible save through spiritual training and edu-
cation. Bahá’u’lláh’s emphasis on spiritual education through revealed religion is further aug-
mented in the Tablet of Splendours, in particular the first Ishraq, where He says: “Should the
lamp of religion be obscured, chaos and confusion will ensue, and the lights of fairness and
justice, of tranquility and peace cease to shine.”6
There is a delicate balance in Bahá’u’lláh’s depiction of human nature: while man is termed
the supreme talisman—the implication being that he trumps other forms of earthly life—yet in
matters of the spirit he falls short in perception and understanding of the mystical realms by
himself, and is in acute need of the assistance of divine messengers to fathom their inner mean-
ings. Even in simple earthly matters, lacking such training, man is not immune from descend-
ing to base and beastly behavior. Commenting on this point, Abdul-Bahá brings to light that
“. . . education is of three kinds: material, human and spiritual.”7 The pinnacle of human
achievement is the attainment of spiritual education, for it is through this alone that human-
ity can distinguish and differentiate itself from other forms of life. The role of the Educator is
to impart divine knowledge so as to “educate the human reality that it may become the center
of the divine appearance, to such a degree that the attributes and the names of God shall be
resplendent in the mirror of the reality of man.”8
What is the latent gift bestowed to mankind and what does the phrase supreme talisman sig-
nify? For the first answer, let us examine Bahá’u’lláh’s Hidden Words.9 As a representative sam-
ple (and not an exhaustive survey), we find that in the Arabic Hidden Words, number 12, He
states: “O Son of Being! With the hands of power I made thee and with the fingers of strength
I created thee; and within thee have I placed the essence of My light.” Again, in the Arabic
Hidden Words, number 22 He says: “O Son of Spirit! Noble have I created thee . . . ” and in
number 69, He says: “O Ye Sons of Spirit! Ye are My treasury, for in you I have treasured the
pearls of My mysteries and the gems of My knowledge.” In the Persian Hidden Words, number
29, He states: “O Son of Bounty! Out of the wastes of nothingness, with the clay of My com-
mand I made thee to appear, and have ordained for thy training every atom in existence and
the essence of all created things.” In His Will and Testament, Bahá’u’lláh declares: “Great and
blessed is this Day—the Day in which all that lay latent in man hath been and will be made man-
ifest. Lofty is the station of man were he to hold fast to righteousness and truth and to remain
firm and steadfast to the Cause.”10 In the yet-to-be-translated Tablet to Manikji, Bahá’u’lláh
states (my provisional rendering): “The soul is the treasury of My Mystery; do not surrender it
to avarice . . . ” (ján ganjíniy-i ráz-i man ast ú rá bidast-i áz maspáríd).11 Finally, in this and
in other tablets of the same era, Bahá’u’lláh advises us to “Regard man as a mine rich in gems
of inestimable value.”12
In the above passages, Bahá’u’lláh confirms the greatness of mankind and the nobility of his
creation, yet He makes man’s eminence conditional upon resolute faith in Him—in other words,
spiritual training revealed through God’s intermediaries. This notion is rooted in the Báb’s
Writings. In the Persian Bayán, commenting on man’s inherent potentialities, He says: “Man’s
highest station, however, is attained through faith in God in every Dispensation and by accep-
tance of what hath been revealed by Him . . . ”13 As for man being the supreme talisman, the
reference has less to do with physical objects such as amulets (hayákil) and charms (ahráz), or
to the science of gematria. Rather, it sustains the assertion that to everyone is given the poten-
tial to rise to the rank of the Perfect Man.14 Bábis and early Bahá’ís wore or carried with them

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
lockets, rings and other objects engraved with signs and symbols or containing fragments of
holy writings, prayers and invocations expressly revealed for special occasions. These were
deemed to have talismanic powers in repelling malevolent, evil spirits and in bringing protec-
tion and blessings to their bearer. In this Tablet, it is likely that Bahá’u’lláh uses talisman as a
literary device to elevate the station of man to that of a higher form of life vested with myste-
rious elements—an enthralled being! The potential to rise above the baser self is only realized
through spiritual education. In the Aqdas, Bahá’u’lláh confirms that He has come to educate
mankind “for naught but the protection of your own selves and the elevation of your sta-
tions.”15 He goes on to state that the mission of all the Prophets has been “to nurture the trees
of human existence with the living waters of uprightness and understanding, that there may
appear from them that which God hath deposited within their inmost selves . . . The purpose
of these educators, in all they said and taught, was to preserve man’s exalted station.”16
We can deduce, therefore, that the latent gift bestowed to mankind is the ‘essence’ of divine
Light, the ‘pearls’ of divine Mysteries and the ‘gems’ of divine Knowledge. In expounding on
the purpose of creation, Bahá’u’lláh attests that it is for the attainment of the true under-
standing of God (maqsúd az áfarínish irfán-i ˙aq búdih).17
On leadership
Bahá’u’lláh’s poignant reflection on the state of human affairs, its forlorn leadership and its
collective failure to settle conflicts peacefully and with due attention to justice, forms the
other theme being examined in this brief review. There is an unambiguous connection between
the demands of leadership with the disposition of those being led. Bahá’u’lláh’s sanguine vision
for a peaceful, unified world is predicated on the graceful acquiescence of humanity to leader-
ship that is itself informed by wisdom and humility, and driven with a keen sense of equity and
justice.
The decades leading to the revelation of this Tablet were witness to violent clashes and con-
flicts around the world.18 The Great Powers of the time—Britain and Russia—were occupied
with imposing their might and control far beyond their recognized borders. This rampant
march of colonialism and the ensuing assertion of ethnic and nationalistic pride by those bear-
ing the brunt of imperial exploitations was a major cause of regional unease.19 The self-serv-
ing, colonial games in which Britain, Russia, France and other major powers of the time
indulged themselves heralded a rapid deterioration in the plight of the subjugated masses.
Economically, conditions were slowly but surely improving for a greater share of the people in
the West. As industrial expansion picked up steam and the decline of feudalism and dynastic
rule gave way to more liberal and democratic governance, a renewed sense of optimism per-
vaded some Western nations and with it the hopeful signs of equitable and egalitarian prospects
for a greater share of their denizens. The same, sadly, did not hold true for the rest of the world.
In this Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh expresses disappointment that the din and noise of wars and revolu-
tions have drowned out His healing message. He calls for the establishment of a global con-
clave of world leaders to collectively engage in reforms, to cohesively put out rogue and unjust
aggression, to consistently trim offensive armaments, retaining only minimal amounts neces-
sary for defensive purposes, and to coherently promote universal peace (the ‘Great Peace’)
through dialog and consultation. Bahá’u’lláh’s call is all-embracing and not hemmed in by the
bounds of geographic or ethnic divides.
Over the past century we have witnessed the steady coalescence of the international com-
munity via the intercessions of the now-defunct League of Nations, the current United Nations
(and its many affiliated agencies) as well as the various military and economic partnerships such

Tablet of Maqsúd
as the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, the European Union, and so on.20 These sputtering
efforts at cooperation and the bringing together of human civilization have yielded a few tan-
gible results. Among the pertinent examples of the united endeavors of world leaders is the
manner in which conflicts have been dimmed in Europe and Africa, and more recently in the
Persian Gulf, the Balkans and other trouble spots. Although not with entirely reliable or uni-
formly positive outcomes, yet most statesmen have taken resolute steps to address endemic
global problems such as the alarming buildup of armaments, racism and discrimination, eth-
nic and religious tensions, environmental pollution and degradation, drug abuse, the rapid
spread of deadly diseases, hunger and malnutrition, etcetera. They have introduced and main-
tained deterrents to curb the arbitrary belligerence of strongmen and dictators and have coun-
tered the naked aggression of some of the more flagrantly seditious tyrants and fanatics with
decisive undertakings. In the process, they have come to fulfill Bahá’u’lláh’s call that “Should
any king take up arms against another, all should unitedly arise and prevent him” (agar malikí
bar malikí bar khízad jamí’ mottafighan bar man’ ghíyám namáyand).21 Their work is far from
done but the machinery of communal action is in gear and, one would hope, irreversible—albeit
at times faltering and beset with bias. Filtering the clashes and catastrophes of the past centu-
ry through the lens of Bahá’u’lláh’s predictions, we can begin to grasp the relevance and the
urgency of His plea for impartial, graceful, just and balanced leadership.
In 1875 Abdul-Bahá penned a treatise known as “The Secret of Divine Civilization”
addressed to the people and government of Persia.22 Referring to rulers who are known for
their sense of justice and who champion the cause of human rights, Abdul-Bahá states that their
station in the sight of God is second only to that of His prophets.23 Abdul-Bahá recalls the hor-
rific events of the Franco-Prussian War and laments over the senseless destructions and the
tragic loss of human life. He is puzzled over mankind’s inability to learn from these mistakes
and expresses alarm at the invention of even deadlier armaments and instruments of warfare.24
Appealing to the greatness of the Persian nation by alluding to its pre-Islamic glory, He argues
for the redirection of resources into rebuilding the nation’s infrastructure, reforming its edu-
cational system, renewing its social welfare apparatus, and so on. In short, Abdul-Bahá echoes
the essence of Bahá’u’lláh’s message of enlightened and progressive leadership rooted in the
principles of justice and equity.
Bahá’u’lláh underscores the necessity for the leader to exercise self-moderation, wisdom and
common sense in advancing the common good. The leader is one who makes judicious use of
rewards and punishments to arbitrate and mitigate conflicts. In the eight Ishraq—an integral
part of the Aqdas—He reiterates: “O people of God! That which traineth the world is Justice,
for it is upheld by two pillars, reward and punishment”25 Further, Bahá’u’lláh re-reveals many
of the themes found in this Tablet, mainly the two discussed in this paper, in the Tablet of the
World.26
Conclusion
By reaffirming the necessity of spiritual education for the fulfillment of the intrinsic great-
ness of mankind, Bahá’u’lláh unfurls His vision for world peace by accentuating the attribut-
es of enlightened leadership. In this Tablet, the former theme (nobility of creation) becomes the
antecedent of and a prerequisite for the attainment of the latter (peace through progressive
leadership). He unequivocally designates and commits to the leaders and statesmen the formi-
dable task of training the nations under their charge and calls on them to cooperatively estab-
lish peace and security. Other themes such as the efficacy of moderated speech, the appeal for
reforms, the need for long-term vision and planning, the abandonment of estrangement, the
inexorableness of a common language and script and so on are, alas, omitted from considera-

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
tion due to the limited scope of this paper. Above all, His emphasis on the need for limits to
liberty and civilization, the excess of which can exercise a “pernicious influence upon men,”
requires meticulous attention and study. Further elaboration on this point appears in the ninth
Leaf of the Words of Paradise.27 It can be argued that in this and other tablets of the same era
Bahá’u’lláh anticipates the fall of despotic, tyrannical rule and the rise of democratically elect-
ed governments and leaders. He awaits the “high endeavours” of political statesmen to lead
humanity in beneficial pursuits. Correlating the concept of leadership as articulated here with
some of His other writings, we find that in a final, remarkable gesture towards the rulers and
kings (mulúk), Bahá’u’lláh calls on the trustees of God (i.e. the yet-to-be-formed Universal
House of Justice) to pray for them and affirms that the rulership of the world is entrusted to
their care, while the hearts of men are set aside for Himself.28
With guidance to political leaders for the establishment of peace and tranquility through
consultation and mutual respect, Bahá’u’lláh re-reveals and weaves together many of the themes
He has enunciated in various other writings. This coherent collage of exhortations—for the
spiritual education and advancement of humanity, for the reconciliation of nations and for
unprejudiced leadership—stands out as the most distinguishing feature of this Tablet. What
makes it all the more riveting is its bearing on global events in more recent times—its core mes-
sage being as fresh and relevant now as it was over a century and half ago! More than a simple
response to a private letter of a bewildered believer, the Tablet of Maqsúd surely ranks among
the “choicest fruits” emanating from the Supreme Pen.
Notes
1) The original text is in Majmú’ihí az Alváh-i Jamál-i Aqdas-i Abhá kih ba’d as Kitáb-i Aqdas názil shudih
(Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1980), pp. 95-111. The English translation is in Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh
Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988), pp. 159-178.
2) A. H. Ishraq-Khavari, Muha∂irát (Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1994), pp. 448-454. See also the
explanation of the translator preceding the text in Tablets.
3) A. Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, vol. 4 (Oxford: George Ronald, 1988), pp. 235-6. See also J.
Cole, Modernity and the Millennium (New York: Columbia University Press, 1998), p. 131 and Call to
Remembrance (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1992), p. 283.
4) S. Effendi, God Passes By (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1974), p. 216.
5) Unlike His emphasis on mandatory schooling (tahsíl) in numerous other writings, Bahá’u’lláh’s reference to
education (tarbíyat) in this Tablet is, it is my belief, informed by an undertone of spiritual training and is
distinct from the traditional secular or the Islamic madrasih tuition.
6) See Tablets, p. 125.
7) Abdul-Bahá, Some Answered Questions (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1984), pp. 7-11. For the origi-
nal see Mufáva∂át (New Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983), pp. 5-9.
8) Ibid.
9) Bahá’u’lláh, The Hidden Words (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1994).
10) The translation of the Book of the Covenant appears in Tablets, pp. 217-223. The original is in Ad’íyyih-
i-Ha∂rat-i-Mahbúb (Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1980), pp. 410-420.
11) Bahá’u’lláh, Majmúiy-i-Alváh-i Mubárak (Cairo, 1920), p. 265.
12) See Tablets, p. 162.
13) The Báb, Selections from the Writings of the Báb (Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1976), p. 89.
14) For a full description of these and related concepts, see D. MacEoin, Rituals in Babism and Baha’ism
(London: British Academic Press, 1994).
15) Bahá’u’lláh, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book (Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1992), p. 26.
16) Ibid., p. 139. This passage appears in the Questions and Answers section.
17) Bahá’u’lláh, Áyát-i-Iláhi, vol. 2 (Hofheim-Langenhain: Bahá’í-Verlag, 1996), p. 41.
18) Revolutions in Greece (1821-1829) and Portugal (1820-1851), the Anglo-Russian Crimean War (1854-1856),

Tablet of Maqsúd
the American Civil War (1861-1865), revolutionary wars in South America, the Franco-Prussian War (1870-
1871), the gradual waning of Catholicism’s temporal powers, to mention but a few, attest to a period of sus-
tained agitation, restlessness and general dissatisfaction with unjust, arbitrary and corrupt princely and
priestly callousness.
19) British colonial interests stretched from Egypt to Iran to Afghanistan to India to Australia to China, and
to many points in between. Similarly, the Belgians in Congo or the French in North Africa, Indo-China and
Mexico, to name a few, were not to be deprived of their share of exploits.
20) The preamble to The Covenant of the League of Nations is noteworthy in that it states: “In order to pro-
mote international co-operation and to achieve international peace and security by the acceptance of oblig-
ations not to resort to war, by the prescription of open, just and honourable relations between nations, by
the firm establishment of the understandings of international law as the actual rule of conduct among
Governments, and by the maintenance of justice and a scrupulous respect for all treaty obligations in the
dealings of organised peoples with one another . . . ” Available on the Internet at www.tufts.edu/depart-
ments/fletcher/multi/www/league-covenant.html.
21) See Tablets, pp. 165.
22) Abdul-Bahá, The Secret of Divine Civilization (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990).
23) Ibid., p. 20.
24) Ibid., pp. 62-63.
25) See Tablets, pp. 128-129.
26) Ibid., pp. 81-97.
27) Ibid., pp. 69-70.
28) See Kitáb-i-Ahd in Tablets.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four

The Uses of Genealogy and Genealogical Information in
Select Persianate and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources
A Preliminary Survey1
Sholeh A. Quinn
I. Introduction
G
enealogy has long been an important aspect of Middle Eastern societies. Indeed, in his
article on genealogy (nasab) in the Encyclopedia of Islam, Franz Rosenthal considers
genealogy to be “the most fundamental organising principle of Arab society.”2 He goes
on to say that “genealogy provides the historical validation of kinship and all that it involves.
Kinship always dominated group life in human society and to a large extent still does today.”3
Although primarily discussing genealogy in relationship to the Arab world, much the same can
be said about Persian and Turkish cultures as well. It should come as no surprise, then, that
this fundamental component of the Middle East should find expression in historical writing
and other texts. The purpose of this paper is to outline scholarship on the genealogy of
Bahá’u’lláh, founder of the Bahá’í religion. Since genealogical issues appear in numerous Bahá’í
scriptures and texts, including those written by the Central Figures, it is important to address
the related scholarship. In order better to understand the context in which discussions and
interest in this genealogy took place, I will (1) present a brief overview of the use of genealo-
gy in Islamicate history before the 19th century, with special emphasis on the Safavid period,
(2) summarize some of the scholarship surrounding Bahá’u’lláh’s genealogy, and (3) offer some
concluding remarks. I would like to state at the start that although one finds genealogies in a
variety of Islamicate texts, including, for example, Sufi treatises, religious scripture, biograph-
ical compendiums, etc, I am going to focus my discussion here on primarily one category of
source: Persian chronicles.
II. Uses of Genealogy in Islamicate History before the 19th Century
A growing number of scholars interested in the origins of Islamic historiography have point-
ed to the importance of genealogy in relationship to historical writing. These include Franz
Rosenthal, Albrech Noth, Tarif Khalidi, Fred Donner, and Julie Meisami, among others.4
Indeed, as Tarif Khalidi has noted, the practice of recording genealogies dates back to the ear-
liest period of Islamic historiography, when early Arab historians used genealogies in order to
stress their Arab identity as the early Islamic empire expanded and began to incorporate diverse
peoples.5 In the Persian historiographical tradition, genealogies served numerous purposes.
Here I will just touch on one of the most important: that of royal genealogies being used to
promote the legitimacy of a particular ruling dynasty. This historiographical convention can be
seen, for instance, during the Ilkhanid period of Mongol rule in Iran, when the great histori-
an Rashíd al-Dín Fa∂l Alláh compiled his Shu‘áb-i-Panjgánah (completed ca. 681-706/1282-
1305-6), a detailed family tree depicting the many descendants of Chingis Khan. Rashíd al-Dín

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
also included genealogical information in his famous world history, the Jámi‘ al-taváríkh. After
Ilkhanid rule in Iran came to an end, Timurid historians, like their Mongol predecessors, also
showed interest in genealogy. The 15th century anonymous Timurid work, the Mu‘izz al-ansáb
(completed 830/1426) both reproduces and extends Rashíd al-Dín’s Shu‘áb-i-Panjgánah into the
Timurid period, with important variations and digressions.6 Furthermore, several Timurid his-
torians, such as ÓafiΩ Abrú and Sharaf al-Dín ‘Alí Yazdí, included versions of Timur’s geneal-
ogy in their chronicles. In an article analyzing Timur’s genealogy, John Woods has shown how
these chroniclers invoked Timur’s presumably fictitious genealogy in order to legitimize the
warlord’s rule.7
After the breakdown of Timurid rule, Iran witnessed a period of decentralization, ruled by
various Turko-Mongol, Persian, and other small dynasties. The region did not witness central-
ized rule until the Safavids came to power, and Shah Ismá‘íl, the first Safavid king, declared
Twelver (ithná ‘ashara) Shi‘ism as the official state religion of Iran (imposing it upon a coun-
try whose population was primarily Sunni). Safavid historians, like their Timurid and Mongol
predecessors, also played a significant role in the production and dissemination of their
dynasty’s family tree. The whole issue of the Safavid genealogy and its various versions has been
the subject of a number of articles and monographs, which have primarily focused on the 14th
century hagiography, the Íafvat al-Íafá, which records the miracles and accomplishments of
Shaykh Íafí al-Dín (650-735/1252-1334), founder of the Safavid Sufi order. (The Safavid dynasty
actually started out as a Sufi order in the Ardabil region of northern Iran). A number of schol-
ars, including A˙mad Kasraví, have noted how earlier versions of the Safavid genealogy trace
Shaykh Íafí’s genealogy back seven generations to a certain Pírúz al-Kurdí al-Sanjání, later
known as Firúz Sháh “Zarrín Kuláh, whereas later versions were revised (19 generations) to
indicate descent from the Seventh Imam of the Twelver Shi‘ah, Musa al-Kazim.”8 The discus-
sion mainly involves the Íafvat al-Íafá and its two principal versions: the original written by
Ibn Bazzáz in ca. 751/1350 with a genealogy not showing the Safavids as sayyids, and a later
“updated” version undertaken by Abú al-Fat˙ al-Óusayní in 940/1533, presumably at the com-
mand of Shah Tahmásb, which alters the genealogy in various ways. This command to revise
the Íafvat al-Íafá reflects the Safavids’ preoccupation with their earlier history and legitimiz-
ing principles.
The first two chroniclers of the Safavid dynasty, Ibráhím Amíní Haraví, author of the
Futú˙át-i-sháhí and Ghiyás al-Dín Khvándmír, author of the Habíb al-siyar, writing in the
early 16th century during the reign of Shah Ismá‘íl, both included genealogies in their texts,
tracing Shaykh Íafí’s ancestry back to Músá al-Kázim. Thus, by 926/1520, when Ibráhím
Amíní started composing his Futú˙át-i-sháh, the “extended” Safavid genealogy going back to
Músá al-Kázim formed part of the official narrative of the early Safavids, and continued into
the reign of Shah ‘Abbas I and beyond.
Political legitimacy and claims of rival dynasties help explain this emphasis on genealogy. At
the same time that the Safavids were presenting themselves and their ancestors as sayyids,
‘Alids, and Shi‘is, their neighboring rival dynasties to the East and West of the Safavid Empire,
the Ottomans and the Mughals, respectively, were making their own genealogical claims. Thus,
when placed in the greater context of the competing Islamic empires, the emphasis on geneal-
ogy becomes understandable. Under the Mughals, Abú al-Fa∂l, (not to be confused with the
Bahá’í scholar Mírzá Abú’l Fa∂l Gulpaygání) historian to the emperor Akbar (r. 963-1014/1556-
1605), a contemporary of Shah ‘Abbas, traced Akbar’s genealogy back to Adam through
Humáyún, Bábur, Timur, and Alanqo’a, Chingis Khan’s mother. Similarly, genealogy was also
an important component of Ottoman chronicles. In the Ottoman historiographical tradition,

Uses of Genealogy in Persianate and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources
chroniclers initially traced the genealogy of Osman “Ghazi” (680-ca. 724/1281-ca. 1324),
founder of the Ottoman dynasty and contemporary of Shaykh Íafí, back to Oghuz Khan, the
great and legendary Turkish ruler.
III. Safavid Genealogies and Dream Narratives
We see genealogical information appearing not only in the form of a list of ancestors in the
beginning of the Safavid chronicles, but also embedded in other aspects of the histories, most
notably in dream narratives. Scholars have long been aware of the importance of dreams in
Islamic history, and have outlined the many religious and political functions of dream episodes
in historical and philosophical texts.9
Although space does not permit an extensive discussion of the pre-Islamic roots of dream
narratives, it is important to note that Zoroastrian/Pahlavi texts contain such accounts The
dream sequences are all somewhat similar, and generally begin with an ancestor of the ruling
house having a dream which most often includes visions of the sun, stars, and other celestial
phenomena. Upon awakening, the individual relates the dream to a close relative or religious
figure such as a shaykh, who interprets it as a sign of future greatness and sovereignty for
either a later ruler or the entire dynastic house. This historiographical practice goes back at
least to the 9th century Iranian Buyid and Tahirid dynasties, where dreams of sovereignty are
found in various histories, and continues through the Ghaznavid period, when poet and histo-
rian Firdawsí in his Sháhnámah, relates a dream he had of Sultan Mahmud.10
The historian Ibráhím Amíní stresses genealogical descent in a dream narrative of Shaykh
Íafí al-Dín. Amíní draws his account from the earlier Íafvat al-Íafá, which contains the orig-
inal version of the dream, which goes something like this: Shaykh Íafí sees himself seated on
top of Qaf mountain with a sable hat (kuláh-i-samúr) on his head and a sword at his waist. He
tries to draw the sword to no avail, and then attempts to lift the hat off his head. When he does
so, a sun shines from his head lighting up the entire world. When he places the hat on his head
the sun becomes concealed. He does this three times with the same results. Shaykh Íafí asks
Shaykh Záhid, his “spiritual guide” (pír or muríd), to interpret this dream, and Shaykh Záhid
tells him that the sword represents the “mandate of sovereignty” (˙ukm-i-viláyat) and the sun
stands for the “light of sainthood” (núr-i-viláyat).11
After recounting this dream, Amíní follows with his own lengthy interpretation, which
reflects the growing importance of genealogy in terms of legitimizing forces at the time of
Shah Ismá‘íl. Amíní makes three main points in his discussion. For our purposes here, the third
point is the most significant—namely, the importance of heredity. He states that
the light of the true prophet (núr-i-nabí-i-vafá) [i.e., Mu˙ammad] was shining from the
descendents of the pure Adam (ádam-i-ßafí) [i.e., Shaykh Íafí] such that it caused the
angels to prostrate . . . were you to recognize the truth of heredity, and not scatter the seeds
of doubt upon the grounds of thought, nor scratch the face of certainty with the nail of
suspicion, [you shall know] that the children of Adam have been endowed with Safavid pri-
macy (ßafvat-i-ßafaví), nor would you doubt that the offsprings of the pride of the world
[i.e., Mu˙ammad], have inherited and passed down perfections and stations [even as it
says:] ‘we each have our appointed place.’ [Q, 38: 164].12
According to Amíní, then, Shah Ismá‘íl earned legitimate political authority because of his
accomplishments in ghaza, or holy war, and inherited spiritual authority because he was a
descendent of Shaykh Íafí and the Prophet Mu˙ammad. This descent that Amíní refers to in
the dream narrative was legitimized in the form of the Safavid genealogy found earlier in his

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
chronicle. This whole notion of inherited authority being used as a basis for ruling legitimacy
actually seems to have been an unacceptable claim within the doctrines of Twelver Shi‘ism.
Although the Safavids had, even as a Sufi order, long been claiming descent from Músá al-
Kázim, it was not until the reign of Shah Ismá‘íl that they used their genealogy as a means of
legitimizing rule over a state in which Twelver Shi‘ism was the official religion. Moojan Momen
suggests that in the absence of being able to claim designation (naßß) as a way of legitimizing
their rule, the Safavids instead promoted claims of descent from Músá al-Kázim in order to dis-
guise the fact that such claims were irrelevent.13
Although the focus of my discussion here has been genealogies in historical sources, I can-
not resist mentioning one source of interesting Safavid genealogical notions appearing in
Safavid non-historical texts—namely, the poetry of Shah Ismá‘íl. Shah Ismá‘íl’s poetic corpus,
written in a Turkish dialect under the pen-name Khatá’í, is one of the most important sources
for our knowledge of early Safavid religious beliefs. Khatá’í (Shah Ismá‘íl) writes:
My name is Shah Ismá‘íl (adlm Shah Ismá‘íl). I am God’s mystery. I am the leader of all
these ghazis.
My mother is Fatima (anam dur Fatimah), my father is ‘Alí (atam ‘Alí dur); and eke I am
the Pir of the Twelve Imams . . .
I am the living Khi∂r and Jesus, son of Mary (Khizr zindah ilah ‘Isa Maryam)
My sire is Íafi, my father Haydar. Truly I am the Ja‘far of the audacious . . .
I am a Husaynid and have curses for Yazid.14
Elsewhere in his divan, he states:
Today I have come to the world as a Master. Know truly that I am Haydar’s son.
I am Faridun, Khosrau, Jamshid, and Zohak. I am Zal’s son (Rustam) and Alexander
(Firaydun Khusraw ve Jamshid ve Zahhak kih ibn Zal ham Iskandaram man).15
Here, genealogical information imbedded in the poem is different from the genealogy
appearing in the chronicles in the form of a long string of names, i.e. so-and-so ibn so-and-so
ibn so-and-so, etc. Instead, Ismá‘íl is appealing to his early Qizilbash supporters who were not
orthodox Twelver Shi’is, but adhered to a type of belief known as ghulúww, or exaggera-
tionism. These followers would not have been particularly interested or impressed with Shah
Ismá‘íl‘s later genealogical claims linking him back to Músá al-Kázim.
VI. Mughal Genealogies
Mughal genealogical accounts share similar motifs and themes with Safavid and earlier
Timurid narratives. The Akbarnámah was just one of many works composed by one of Akbar’s
most prolific writers, Abú al-Fa∂l, who was commissioned by the emperor Akbar to write an
official history of the Mughal dynasty from its origins, which he continued working on until
his death in (1011/1602).16
Included in Abú al-Fa∂l’s chapter on miracles are approximately eight dream narratives. The
third dream narrative that Abú al-Fa∂l relates is in response to a dream that originally appears
in the introduction (muqaddimah) to Sharaf al-Dín ‘Alí Yazdí’s Zafarnámah, a major Timurid
chronicle. Woods translates the dream of Qachulay, an ancestor of Timur whose father,
Tumanay Khan, was also a direct ancestor of Chingiz Khan:
One night, Qachulay dreamed that he saw four stars ascend successively from the breast
(jayb) of his brother Qabul. The last of these filled the entire world with its brilliance, dif-
fusing light to other bodies which sprang forth from the fourth star and continued to glow

Uses of Genealogy in Persianate and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources
even after it had set. He then saw seven stars rise one after another from his own breast
followed by an eighth, a great star which cast its light everywhere and from which emanat-
ed lesser bodies, each illuminating a different region.17
Qachulay then relates the dreams to his father, who interprets the first as foretelling “the ini-
tial paramountcy of the issue of Qabul” which includes most importantly Qabul’s great-grand-
son, Chingiz Khan. His father interprets the second dream as portending a world-conqueror in
the eighth generation of Qachulay’s descendents, presumably Timur. Yazdí narrates this account
in order to show that by virtue of Chingiz Khan and Timur’s common ancestry—the twin
brothers Qachulay and Qabul—both were destined to rule.18
In his Akbarnámah, Abú al-Fa∂l rewrote and reinterpreted Qachulay’s dream. He states that
Yazdí was wrong and had “taken a superficial view of things.”19 According to Abú al-Fa∂l, the
true meaning of this dream, and in particular the eighth star, was not Timur, but “the auspi-
cious Akbar.” He continues to explain that even though there were fifteen generations between
Qachulay and Akbar, “among those [ancestors] there are seven stars of the zodiacal sign of
greatness and having the light of this world-illuminating king of kings emblazoned on the fore-
heads of their biographies.”20 Abú al-Fa∂l does not state who, however, among the fifteen indi-
viduals are the seven great ancestors.
V. Afsharid Genealogies
In 1148/1736, some fourteen years after invading Iran, a new conqueror, Nádir, was crowned
king. Nádir Shah (r. 1148-1160/1736-1747) had his start as a chieftan of the Afshars, one of the
Qizilbash tribes that originally put Shah Ismá‘íl in power. Ernest Tucker has analyzed histori-
cal writing under the reign of Nádir Shah, and pointed to the main concerns of Afsharid his-
torians, namely Nádir’s relationship with the Safavid dynasty and his own political legitimacy.21
Mírzá Mu˙ammad Kázim Marví, Nádir’s financial accountant, was author of the ‘Álam-árá-yi
Nádirí (1160/1747). Marví devotes his first chapter to an explanation of the birth of Nadir
Shah. Here, Marví includes a dream narrative in which Imam Quli Beg, Nadir’s father, dreams
of a sun rising from his neck. The rays of that sun lit the whole world, east and west. Imam
Quli Beg related the dream to his brother, Bektash, who also coincidentally had the same
dream. For several days later, Imam Quli Beg continued to have the same dream. The brothers
related their experience to a poor mulla who was skilled in astrology. The mulla interpreted the
dream to mean that a child would soon appear from the line of Imam Quli Beg who would con-
quer the whole world . . . Shortly after this, Nadir was born.22
Genealogical manipulations also took place in the Qajar period—as seen in the case of Náßir
al-Dín Shah, whose temporary wife Jayran became a permanent wife in connection with a plot
hatched in order to legitimize the succession of her son, Amír Qásim.23 In order to accomplish
this, in the face of “general ridicule” of the marriage with Jayran, a court chronicler, whom
Abbas Amanat suggests was Ri∂á Qulí Khán Hidáyat, was commissioned to construct a geneal-
ogy for Jayran’s father. Amanat states
the pedigree that was made up traced the descent of the Tajrishi peasant back to the
Sasanian monarchy and through them to the legendary Kayanid kings. Genghis Khan, too,
may have been brought into the genealogical tree to make it sufficiently Turco-Mongolian,
and thus Qajar, to make Jayran’s son an heir and to ensure her father and brother a place
among the court dignitaries.24
VI. A Summary of Select Scholarship on Bahá’u’lláh’s Genealogy
The purpose of this rather lengthy discussion is to show how prevalent genealogy was in the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
consciousness of Persianate writers, and to demonstrate some of the forms in which genealog-
ical information appeared. Thus in tern helps us to understand the cultural context for 19th cen-
tury discussions of Bahá’u’lláh’s genealogy. Given this history, it should come as no surprise
that this subject would be of interest and concern both during Bahá’u’lláh’s lifetime and after.
Although Bahá’u’lláh Himself did not prepare a genealogy of his ancestors, and His claims
were on theophanological lines as opposed to historiographically oriented writings, a number
of individuals have written about various aspects of Bahá’u’lláh’s family tree, including Mírzá
Abú al-Fa∂l Gulpaygání, Shoghi Effendi, Mu˙ammad ‘Alí Malik Kusraví (Núrí), and Hasan
Balyuzi. More recently, other important references and discussions about the genealogy have
been made by Stephen Lambden and Shahriyar Razavi. What follows is only a very brief
overview summarizing various aspects of scholarship on Bahá’u’lláh’s genealogy. I must state
at the outset that what I am presenting here are extremely tentative notes and comments, based
only on a preliminary review of select sources.
Questions and scholarship surrounding Bahá’u’lláh’s genealogy have served numerous pur-
poses, depending on the interests and aims of the individual posing the question or writing
the essay. In general, these purposes can be put into four categories: (1) Questions posed by
Zoroastrians regarding Bahá’u’lláh’s descent from Sassanian kings, (2) comments made by
‘Abdu’l Bahá and Shoghi Effendi regarding Bahá’u’lláh’s descent, and (3) interest on the part of
Bahá’í writers from the Nur region.
1) Zoroastrian Questions
Hasan Balyuzi has neatly summarized the context of Zoroastrians questions regarding
Bahá’u’lláh’s genealogy.25 The intial query was posed to Bahá’u’lláh himself by a Zoroastrian
convert named Ustád Javánmard.26 Ustád Javánmard asked Bahá’u’lláh a total of seven ques-
tions, and in response, Bahá’u’lláh composed the Law˙-i-Haft Pursish (Tablet of the Seven
Questions) (Law˙-i-Javánmard). This Tablet was translated by Shahriar Razavi, with addition-
al comments by Stephen Lambden, in the Bahá’í Studies Bulletin (1993). The original text of
Ustád Javánmard’s questions appears to be lost, but we may gather that the seventh question
was regarding Bahá’u’lláh’s genealogy. Bahá’u’lláh in response refers Ustád Javánmard to Mírzá
Abú’l Fa∂l Gulpaygání, who had already put together a text in connection with the genealogy.
The treatise by Mírzá Abú’l Fa∂l, referred to by Bahá’u’lláh, also regrettably appears to be lost.
However, after providing this reference, Bahá’u’lláh then tells Javánmard that if he could
“obtain and peruse the Súrah-yi Ra’ís and the Súrah-yi Mulúk,” he would no longer be in need
of what he asked about “and would arise to render service to the Cause of God.”27
Interest in this question did not disappear, however. In 1320/1902-1903, again a question
regarding Bahá’u’lláh’s genealogy was posed to local Bahá’ís by Áqá Khusraw Bimán, a
Zoroastrian Bahá’í visiting the Holy Land. The question related to some lines of poetry by Abí
Ja’far Mu˙ammad ibn ‘Alí al-Shalmaghání (322/934) that were being debated at the time.28
‘Abdu’l Bahá, to whom the question was ultimately referred, like His father, also referred Bimán
to Mírzá Abú’l Fa∂l, who was in New York at the time. By this time, Abú’l Fa∂l was no longer
in possession of his original treatise, but instead provided Bimán a summary of that original
essay, in which he explained the circumstances under which he came to compose it. This is the
text which has survived today, and known by the title, “Shar˙-i-shajara-yi jamál-i-
mubárakah.”29 In this tract, which Hasan Balyuzi almost completely translated in his book,
Eminent Bahá’ís in the Time of Bahá’u’lláh, Abú’l Fa∂l explains that he came to research
Bahá’u’lláh’s genealogy as a result of the discussion surrounding a 10th century poem, and also
some prophecies in the text Dasátír and other Parsi writings. He came to the conclusion that
Bahá’u’lláh’s family traced its descent back to the “ancient dynasties of Iran.” He then lists a

Uses of Genealogy in Persianate and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources
number of dynasties that ruled in Tabaristan over the centuries and mentions some of the more
well known poets and significant individuals from that region.30 Realizing that he had uncov-
ered a rich tradition of local historiography, Abu’l Fa∂l thought that he could in all probability
discover Bahá’u’lláh’s genealogy. In this published treatise he provides two main sources of evi-
dence for Bahá’u’lláh’s descent. The first is a statement by 19th century historiographer Ri∂á
Qulí Khán Hidáyat, author of the well-known Qajar chronicle, the Rawzat al-Íafá-yi Náßirí
and a genealogical work entitled the Nizhádnámah. In the latter work, Hidáyat states that the
“descent of the House of Nuris goes back to the just king, Anushirvan [i.e. Khusro I, r. 531-
579].”31 At the same time, Gulpaygani met Óajjí Mírzá Ri∂á Qulí, a half-brother of Bahá’u’lláh,
who told them that copies of a Núrí family genealogical table were in the possession of various
members of the family and this genealogy traced the family’s ancestors back to Yazdigird, son
of Shahriyar [i.e. Yazdigird III, son of Shahriyar, r. 632-651, last Sasanian monarch].32 When
he presented this evidence to Bahá’u’lláh, He sent him a Tablet stating in part “O Abu’l Fa∂l!
Verily thou has spoken the truth . . . ”33
2) Shoghi Effendi’s Research
In the early 1930’s, Shoghi Effendi published a facsimile of Bahá’u’lláh’s genealogy in the
form of a family tree in volume 5 of the Bahá’í World, covering the years 1932-1934.34 The
chart is similar in format to Shoghi Effendi genealogical chart of the Báb, also placed in the
same issue of the Bahá’í World but originally appearing in Shoghi Effendi’s translation and
interpretation of Nabíl’s history, known in English as the Dawnbreakers, published in 1932.
Interestingly, in this case, Shoghi Effendi seems to set aside issues of Bahá’u’lláh’s descent from
Sassanian kings and instead, traces his ancestors back only as far as the 17th century, to a cer-
tain Áqá Fakhr, son of Shahriyár Óasan, with a date of ca. 1028/1618-1619. This situates
Bahá’u’lláh’s earliest traced ancestors back to the Safavid period. I have not yet been able to dis-
cover from where, specifically, Shoghi Effendi obtained this information, how he went about
doing the research for this family tree, or what were the circumstances of its publication.
In contrast to Shoghi Effendi’s genealogical chart, his history of the first hundred years of
the Bahá’í religion, entitled God Passes By, originally published in 1944, does not have an elab-
orate chart or even a list of Bahá’u’lláh’s ancestors, but it does contain genealogical statements.
The most important passage for our purposes is as follows:
He derived His descent, on the one hand, from Abraham (the Father of the Faithful)
through his wife Katúrah, and on the other from Zoroaster, as well as from Yazdigird, the
last king of the Sasaniyan dynasty. He was moreover a descendant of Jesse, and belonged,
through His father, Mírzá ‘Abbás, better known as Mírzá Buzurg—a nobleman closely
associated with the ministerial circles of the Court of Fat˙-‘Alí Sháh—to one of the most
ancient and renowned families of Mazindaran.35
Although to some extent this passage echoes some of the comments made by Mírzá Abú’l
Fa∂l in his treatise, the genealogical claims in it are much more extensive than those made by
Mírzá Abú’l Fa∂l. Here, Shoghi Effendi presents aspects of Bahá’u’lláh’s genealogy that, to the
best of my knowledge, we do not see elswhere, or at least we do not see commonly elsewhere.
For example, whereas Mírzá Abú’l Fa∂l states that Bahá’u’lláh was descended from Sasanian
monarchs, Shoghi Effendi repeats that information yet adds that he was also descended from
Zoroaster (and others). This quotation appears in a section of God Passes By where Shoghi
Effendi explains how Bahá’u’lláh fulfilled the messianic expectations of several religious tradi-
tions, and refers to prophecies from the Hebrew Bible, the New Testament, and Zoroastrian,
Hindu, Buddhist, and Islamic writings.36

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
3) Writers from Núr
Some thirty years after Shoghi Effendi’s genealogical chart was published, in 1962,
Mu˙ammad ‘Alí Malikí-Kusraví published his historical work entitled the Iqlím-i-Núr. This
work contains historical information about the Nur region in Mazandaran and genealogical
material on Bahá’u’lláh’s family.37 The author states in his introductory notes that he wrote this
book in order to correct certain mistakes on specific pages of ‘Abdu’l Óusayn Áyátí Ávárih’s
historical work, the Kavákibu’d Durriyah, and other various errors.38 The specific sections in
Kavákibu’d Durriyah that Malikí-Kusraví mentions deal directly with Bahá’u’lláh’s genealo-
gy.39 The author also lists his sources at the beginning of his work, which include a rather large
number of items including various writings of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Nabil, the Zuhúr al-
Óaqq vol. 3, the writings of Ishráq Khávarí, Shoghi Effendi’s genealogical chart in the Bahá’í
World, the copy of Bahá’u’lláh’s marriage certificate in the same volume, and various papers
and documents in the possession of his wife’s family.40 Obviously, time does not permit me to
sort out the historiography that went into producing this volume. This is a complicated task,
for aside from his introductory list of sources, the author does not cite his sources in the rest
of his work, so it is impossible to know what information comes from where. For our purpos-
es here, we can note that there are some differences from Malikí-Khusraví’s genealogical chart
at the end of his book and Shoghi Effendi’s.41
Finally, in addition to the research of Malikí-Kusraví, the late Nusratulláh Majzub did a great
deal of historical research on Bahá’u’lláh’s genealogy, and composed a book manuscript on the
subject, which has not yet been published.42 It should be noted that the sources I have men-
tioned here are not exhaustive. Other materials compiled and researched by various individu-
als that have not yet been published may certainly come to light. Here I have only mentioned
those writings and texts which have been available to me.
Conclusion
I would like to make just a few points by way of conclusion, most of which relate to future
research that needs to be done on this topic.
1)
Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l Bahá and Shoghi Effendi all commented in some way on their
family’s genealogy. Bahá’u’lláh, while writing to Javánmard that the question of his
ancestors was not particularly important, nevertheless indirectly answered the ques-
tion by referring Javánmard to Mírzá Abú’l Fa∂l. Similarly, ‘Abdu’l Bahá referred
another individual, Bimán, also to Abú’l Fa∂l. Thus, in these two cases, neither
Bahá’u’lláh nor ‘Abdu’l Bahá provided specific answers of Their own to genealogical
questions. Shoghi Effendi, on the other hand, made a variety of genealogical state-
ments and we may therefore assume that he did have an interest in the question.
What remains to be done in this connection is finding all of the genealogical state-
ments made by Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l Bahá, and Shoghi Effendi, and examining the
specific contexts in which they were made.
2)
We know that genealogies have been invoked and used throughout Iranian history
for a variety of purposes. The fact that different aspects of Bahá’u’lláh’s genealogy
were stressed by different individuals at different times is a continuation of that tra-
dition, albeit in modified form.
3)
Much of the historiography still needs to be sorted out. This cannot be done, how-
ever, until more material is uncovered and made more readily accessible to scholars
and researchers, in particular family histories and documents.

Uses of Genealogy in Persianate and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources
Notes
I am grateful to Dr. Stephen N. Lambden and Dr. Iraj Ayman for their many valuable suggestions, comments,
and assistance on this paper. I take full responsibility, of course, for all errors.
1) F. Rosenthal, EI2, s.v. “nasab.”
2) Rosenthal, EI2, s.v. “nasab.”
3) See, for example, Fred M. Donner, Narratives of Islamic Origins: The Beginnings of Islamic Historical
Writing, (Princeton: Darwin Press, 1998); Tarif Khalidi, Arabic Historical Thought in the Classical Period
(Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1994); Albrecht Noth, Quellenkritische Studien zu Themen,
Formen und Tendenzen frühislamischer Geschichtsüberlieferung, trans. by Michael Bonner as The Early
Arabic Historical Tradition: A Source-Critical Study, 2nd ed., in collaboration with Lawrence I. Conrad
(Princeton: The Darwin Press, 1994); and Julie Meisami, Persian Historiography to the End of the Twelfth
Century, (Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press, 1999).
4) Khalidi, Arabic Historical Thought, 50.
5) See Sholeh A. Quinn, “The Mu‘izz al-Ansab and Shu‘ab-i-Panjganah as Sources for the Chaghatayid Period
of History: A Comparative Analysis,” Central Asiatic Journal 33 (1990), 229-253.
6) See John E. Woods, “Timur’s Genealogy,” in Intellectual Studies on Islam: Essays Written in Honor of
Martin B. Dickson, ed. Michel M. Mazzaoui and Vera B. Moreen, 85-125, (Utah: University of Utah Press,
1990).
7) See, for instance, Ahmad Kasravi, Shaykh Safi va tabarash (Tehran: Nashr va Pakhsh-i-Kitáb, 2535 [1976]);
A. Z. V. Togan, “Sur l’origine des Safavides,” in Mélanges Louis Massignon III, 3 vols. (Damas: Institute
Français de Damas, 1957), 345-357, and Michel Mazzaoui, The Origins of the Safawids (Wiesbaden: F.
Steiner, 1972), 46-51.
8) Of the various types of dream narratives that Von Grunebaum outlines, the dream as political prophecy is
the most relevant in the study of Shaykh Safi al-Din’s dreams. See, for instance, G. E. Von Grunebaum,
“The Cultural Function of the Dream as Illustrated by Classical Islam,” in The Dream and Human
Societies, ed. G. E. Von Grunebaum and Roger Caillois (Berkeley and Los Angeles: University of California
Press, 1966), 3-21. See also EnIr, s.v. “Dreams and Dream Interpretation,” by Hossein Ziai.
9) See Roy Mottahedeh, Loyalty and Leadership in an Early Islamic Society (Princeton: Princeton University
Press, 1980), 69-72. Julie Meisami discusses Firdawsi’s dream of Sultan Mahmud in the Shahnamah. See
Julie Meisami, “The Past in Service of the Present: Two Views of History in Medieval Persia,” Poetics
Today (14): 1993, 247-275. For the actual account of the dream in the Shahnamah, see Firdawsi, Shahnamah,
ed. Jalal Khaliqi Mutlaq, 6 vols. (New York: State University of New York Press, 1978), 1: 16-17.
10) Tavakkul ibn Ismá‘íl ibn Bazzáz, Íafvat al-Íafá, ed. Ghulám Ri∂á Tabátabá’í Majd ([Tabriz: G. Tabátabá’í
Majd, 1373 [1994]) 87-88.
11) Íadr al-Dín Sultán Ibráhím Amíníi Haraví, “Futu˙át-i-sháhí,” Ms., Dushanbe I, folio 246a.
12) “It was clearly impossible for the Safavids to claim designation [nass] (except in visions of the Hidden
Imam) and the great stress in their propaganda on their descent from the Imams can only be seen as a
smokescreen to hide the fact that this was an irrelevance.” Momen, Introduction, 108. As already men-
tioned, there is a pre-Islamic precedent for such genealogical dream narratives. For a detailed discussion of
Persian pre-Islamic influences on notions of kingship, see Said Amir Arjomand, The Shadow of God and
the Hidden Imam (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1984), 89-95. In this connection it is interesting
to note that the first section of the Pahlavi text known as the Kárnámak-i-Ardashír-i-Pápakán contains
several dream narratives, one of which states that “Papak one night saw in a dream how the sun shone from
the head of Sasan and made the whole world bright.” The dream interpreters said “He who was seen in the
dream, either he or one of his children will come to sovereignty over the world, since the sun and the white
and caparisoned elephant [the elephant refers to another dream] are (a sign of) mastery and riches and vic-
tory.” Quoted in Said Arjomand, The Shadow of God and the Hidden Imam (Chicago: University of
Chicago Press, 1982), 92, and EnIr, s.v. “Dreams and Dream Interpretation,” by Hossein Ziai. For the full
translation, see H. W. Bailey, Zoroastrian Problems in the Ninth-Century Books (Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 1943; repr., 1971), 59-60. For the original text in Pahlavi, with a transcription and trans-
lation into modern Persian, see Kárnámah-’i Ardashír-i-Bábakán, ed. Mu˙ammad Javád Mashkúr ([Tehran]:
Dunyá-yi Kitáb, 1369 [1990]), 44-45 (Pahlavi text); 116-118 (Persian transcription); and 176-177 (Persian
translation). This dream narrative is repeated in the Sháhnámah in modified form.
13) V. Minorsky, “The Poetry of Shah Ismá‘íl I,” BSOAS 10 (1942), 1007-1053. See poem no. 15, 1042a.-1043a
14) Minorsky, “Poetry of Shah Ismá‘íl,” poem no. 195, 1047a.
15) EnIr, s.v., “Akbarnamah.”
16) Woods, “Timur’s Genealogy,” 91.
17) See Woods, “Timur’s Genealogy,” 91.
18) Abú al-Fa∂l, Akbarnámah, ed. Ghulám Ri∂á Tabátabá’í Majd (Tehran, 1372 (1993): 31-32; translated by H.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
Beveridge as The Akbar nama of Abu-l-Fa∂l. 3 Vols. Delhi: Low Price Publications, 1989), 47.
19) Akbarnámah, 32; Beveridge, 48. For more information on the genealogy, see Beveridge, 143-145, 205-206.
20) Ernest Tucker, “Explaining Nadir Shah: Kingship and Royal Legitimacy in Muhammad Kazim Marvi’s
Tarikh-i-‘alam-ara-yi Nadiri,” Iranian Studies 26 (1993), 95-117. See esp. pg. 115
21) ‘Álam-árá-yi Nádirí, 6-7; Tucker, “Explaining Nadir Shah,” 103.
22) See Abbas Amanat, Pivot of the Universe: Nasir al-Din Shah Qajar and the Iranian Monarchy, 1831-1896
(Berkeley: University of California Press, 1997), 323-324.
23) Abbas Amanat, Pivot of the Universe, 324.
24) See Hasan Balyuzi, Eminent Bahá’ís in the Time of Bahá’u’lláh, with Some Historical Background,
(Oxford: George Ronald, 1985), 309-313.
25) See Shahriar Razavi, “The Tablet of the Seven Questions of Bahá’u’lláh (Lawh-i-haft pursish): An
Introductory Note and Provisional Translation,” Bahá’í Studies Bulletin 7: 3-4 (1993), 47-59. See also in the
same issue, Stephen Lambden, “Appendix One: A Few Expository Notes on the Law˙-i-haft pursish.” 60-68.
26) Razavi trans., 52.
27) Lambden has translated the poem as follows: “O claimant (tálib[an]) from the Hashimite house/And dis-
claimer (jáhid[an]) from the house of Chosroes/Assuredly was he hidden in a non-Arab lineage/One
Persian, of noble, agreeable descent.” Lambden, “Appendix,” 65.
28) The summary was published in Bombay and also appears in R. Mehrábkhání’s Rasá’il va Raqá’im-i-Abú
al-Fazá’il (Tehran: BPT, 135/1978), 41-47.
29) These include Kay Kábús of the Kábúsnámah and the poet Manúchihrí. See Gulpaygani, 43-44 and the
translation in Balyuzi, Eminent Bahá’ís, 311-312.
30) Balyuzi, Eminent Bahá’ís, 312; Gulpaygani states, “Ri∂á Qulíkhán mulaqqab bi-Amí al-Shu‘ará dar kitáb-
i-Nizhád’námah mazkúr dáshtah kih silsilah-i-‘aliyyah’-i-Núriyyah bi-malik-i-‘ádil Núshíraván muntahá
míshavad . . . ” 44-45.
31) Balyuzi, Eminent Bahá’ís, 312-313. See also Appendix 3 in Richard Frye, The Heritage of Persia, (New
York: Mentor Books, 1963), 320.
32) Balyuzi, 312; Gulpaygani, quoting Bahá’u’lláh: “yá Abu’l-Fa∂l, qad nataqta bi-al-˙aqq wa aΩharta má kána
mastúran fí kalimátihi.” 46.
33) See The Bahá’í World: a Biennial International Record, vol. 5 [89 and 90 of the Bahá’í Era April 1932-1934
A.D.] (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1936), insert between pp. 204-205.
34) Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1944), 94.
35) In this regard it is interesting to note that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had earlier alluded to His father’s Abrahamic
descent, when He stated the following: “The Blessed Beauty is also a lineal descendant of Abraham, for
Abraham had other sons besides Ishmael and Isaac who in those days migrated to the lands of Persia and
Afghanistan, and the Blessed Beauty is one of their descendants.” ‘Abdu’l Bahá, Some Answered Questions,
trans. Laura Clifford Barney (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1981 [originally 1930]), 213.
36) Notes on Mazandaran from EI2: province to the south of Caspian sea bounded on west by Gilan and east
by Astarabad (formerly Gurgan). Now, Mazandaran and Gurgan form modern province of Mazandaran.
Arabs know the region only as Tabaristan. The name Mazandaran only reappears in Seljuk times. See EI2,
s.v. “Mazandaran,” V. Minorsky [C. E. Bosworth].
37) These consist of pages 253-254 of volume one, and page 4 of volume two. See Mu˙ammad ‘Alí Malikí-
Kusraví Iqlím-i-Núr, (Tehran, 1962), “dal.”
38) See Avarih, Kavákibu’d Durriyah, 2 vols. (Cairo: Matba’at as-Sa’adah, 1923-1924), vol. 1, pg. 253-54; vol. 2,
pg.
4.
Reprinted
East
Lansing,
Mi.:
H-Bahai,
1999-2000
and
available
at:
www2.h-
net.msu.edu/bahai/areprint/vol4/kd/kd.htm.
39) Specifically, these items are as follows: (1) various writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdul-Bahá, (2) Nabíl, (3)
Fázil Mazandarání’s Zuhúr al-Óaqq vol. 3, and (4) Ishráq Khávarí’s Rahiq-i-Makhtúm. To this list he also
adds the following: (1) the genealogical work of Mírzá Fa∂l Alláh “Nizám al-Mamálik” (a companion of
Bahá’u’lláh), (2) Shoghi Effendi’s genealogical chart in the Bahá’í World, (3) the copy of Bahá’u’lláh’s mar-
riage certificate in the same volume, (4) the newspaper Rúznámah-i-vaqáyi‘i-i-ittifáqiyah and some other
documents from national archives (5) the memoirs of Nizám al-Mamálik and his Tablets in Nur, (6) fami-
ly papers from the Bihzád clan from the author’s mother’s side of the family, and (7) the authors personal
papers. Iqlím-i-Núr, “vav.”
40) One interesting difference is that Malikí Khusraví adds a generation between Áqá Fakhr and Óájjí
Mu˙amamd Ri∂á Beg, namely Áqá Mu˙ammad ‘Alí, known as (ma‘rúf bih) Áqá’í. See Iqlím-i-Núr,
genealogical tree at the end. It should also be noted that Malikí Khusraví had greatly expanded on his work
and produced a large wall chart on this genealogy, documenting its sources at each point. Regretfully, his
documents and other materials were confiscated during the Iranian Revolution of 1978-79. Personal com-
munication, Iraj Ayman, February 24, 2003.
41) Iraj Ayman, personal communication, February 24, 2003.

An Exposition of the Law˙-i-Dunyá
(Tablet of the World)
James B. Thomas
Introduction
I
n the waning years of the illustrious life of Bahá’u’lláh, an incident occurred in the city of
Yazd, Iran so horrendous that He withdrew into seclusion for nine days. When He emerged
He revealed The Law˙-i-Dunyá (Tablet of the World) in which He referred to this incident
which involved heinous acts of persecution against seven of His loyal followers. The beloved
Guardian, Shoghi Effendi described these events with unforgettable candor in God Passes By.
“In Yazd, at the instigation of the mujtahid of that city, and by order of the callous Ma˙múd
Mírzá, the Jalúlu’l-Dawlih, the governor, a son of Zillu’s-Sultán, seven were done to death in a
single day in horrible circumstances. . . .” The Guardian goes on to describe in mind numbing
clarity the brutal, inhumane acts perpetrated on these innocent souls on May 19, 1891.1
Their martyrdom culminated a near half century of brutal persecution of the Bábí, and later
the nascent Bahá’í communities in Persia during the earthly lifetimes of the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh. Whenever the Blessed Beauty would become cognizant of such acts of this magni-
tude He would reveal potent tablets that not only were sparked by the event itself but by the
cumulative effects of such events that led up to their perpetration as well as the conditions of
the times in which they occurred. The Law˙-i-Dunyá is such a tablet.
It was revealed in honor of Áqá Márzá Áqáy-i-Afnán, a nephew of Khadíjih Bagum, wife of
the Báb. He learned about the new Faith from her and at the young age of thirteen recognized
the station of the Báb. He revered his aunt and later became her protector with great devotion.
When Nabíl-i-A‘Ωam visited his home and informed the believers in Shíráz of the Declaration
of Bahá’u’lláh, Áqá Mírzá Áqá quickly embraced His Faith. He was also the one who helped the
uncle of the Báb, Óájí Mírzá Siyyid Mu˙ammad attain the presence of Bahá’u’lláh to find
answers to his questions regarding the validity of the Báb’s claim. As a result, Óájí Mírzá Siyyid
became the recipient of one of the greatest books in religious history, the Kitáb-i-ˆqán (Book
of Certitude).2
In an effort to appreciate the historical significance of the Tablet of the World, this essay is
presented in four parts: (1) It describes the difficulties in the world under the yoke of European
powers that preceded the Law˙-i-Dunyá, (2) portrays the developing conditions in Persia, (3)
expounds upon the salient points of the Tablet with respect to those conditions and (4) brings
into bold relief the potential impact that this writing may have on the modern world.
19th Century Europe
In the span of the first half century of the Bahá’í era, the world was ruled by European pow-
ers wherein spectacular technological advances moved on a collision course with political cor-
ruption. The technological achievements were a product of the Industrial Revolution that actu-

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
ally occurred in two phases. The first began around 1760 and was an outgrowth of the Age of
Enlightenment or of ‘Reason’, an age that was profoundly influenced by the extraordinary suc-
cess of Isaac Newton a century earlier. He discovered basic laws of nature that remain prov-
able by empirical evidence and mathematical certainty. From this a mechanical model of the
universe was derived that presumably defined everything that happened materially within it.
This was embraced by leading philosophers such as John Locke, the great rationalist who tried
to apply scientific methods to the social life of man.3
Reason was also applied to religion such that God was depicted as the Great Watchmaker of
The Universe, and had the effect of draining away most religious truths. This rationalistic
approach called Deism however left many wanting for solace and salvation. Many began explor-
ing the world of sensation and emotion that later resulted in the cultural movement called
Romanticism.4 Thus three areas of human endeavor, scientific, social and religious were deeply
influenced by the astonishing success of modern science in the 17th century.
In the first area, scientific achievement inspired the beginnings of technical innovation that
by the late seventeen hundreds saw the emergence of the factory system with its scandalous
child labor abuses. It also brought improved means of transport and this, coupled with new
industry, greatly enhanced trade and commerce. The second area of applying scientific method
to human activity saw the seeds planted for social science and political-economic theories. In
the third area of religion, the rationalistic approach to faith found strong reaction in many
hearts that resulted in a powerful sense of individualism within the protestant fold.5 The effect
was a continuous process of schism over time that produced thousands of protestant sects.
But the breakdown of religious unity was not relegated solely to the protestant movement.
The Catholic Church experienced similar discord within its ranks in the 19th century. This
peaked after two decades of turmoil within the Church during the long pontificate of Pope Pius
IX. He called into session the ecumenical council of 1869 shortly after he rejected a letter from
Bahá’u’lláh.6 The letter is addressed to the Pope in powerful authoritative tones:
O Pope! Rend the veils asunder. He Who is the Lord of Lords is come overshadowed with
clouds, and the decree hath been fulfilled by God, the Almighty, the Unrestrained . . .
Beware that thou dispute not with Him ( Jesus) without a clear token or proof . . . Beware
Lest any name debar thee from God, the Creator of earth and heaven. Leave now the world
behind thee, and turn towards thy lord, through Whom the whole earth hath been illu-
mined . . . Dwellest thou in palaces whilst He Who is the King of Revelation liveth in the
most desolate of abodes? Leave them unto such as desire them, and set thy face with joy
and delight towards the Kingdom . . . Arise in the name of thy Lord, the God of Mercy,
amidst the people of the earth, and seize thou the Cup of Life with the hands of confi-
dence, and first drink thou there-from, and proffer it then to such as turn towards it
amongst the peoples of all faiths . . . 7
The great tragedy that befell Pius IX was based on his lack of recognition of the station of
Bahá’u’lláh. He further pursued his own egoistic agenda of power and authority that in the end
escaped him altogether. This culminated in 1869 when he declared Papal Infallibility as a new
dogma of the Church. The consequences that Bahá’u’lláh warned him about followed quickly.
On September 20, 1870, Italian troops occupied Rome, and in October a plebiscite was
held in which an overwhelming majority of the votes cast were for the incorporation of
Rome in the kingdom of Italy. Pius remained for the rest of his days a prisoner, as he
regarded himself, in the Vatican . . . In the rest of Italy, church and state were to be sepa-
rated . . . 8

An Exposition of the Law˙-i-Dunyá
These religious discords evolved in complex ways and digressed into agnosticism, fundamen-
talism,9 materialism and atheism.10 Conversely, the fields of social science, economics, politi-
cal science, psychology and medicine emerged and developed in most of the countries of
Europe. Within this palette of human effort to achieve the ideals of the Age of Enlightenment
there emerged the ominous threat of militarism.11
With the fall of the Bastille and French aristocracy in 1789, a new wave of political change
swept Europe. The French Revolution12 set the stage for ambitious leaders who would capital-
ize on every opportunity to aggrandize themselves through conquest by the sacrifice of count-
less thousands of conscripted soldiers.13 As technology advanced, militarism gained strength
and, in spite of all the achievements of the second Industrial Revolution, the average citizen
experienced an ever increasing sense of the terror of war. These signs brought forth grave warn-
ings from Bahá’u’lláh in His famous letters to the leaders and divines of the world. His
prophetic utterances came true in the fullness of time as witness Pope Pius IX. Napoleon III
was a recipient of two of these letters and his rejection of Bahá’u’lláh’s warnings brought on
his ignominy with complete loss of power.14 Toward the end of the 19th century “The
Imperialistic Impulse to War” became the dominate theme across the face of Europe.15 This
brought to bear Bahá’u’lláh’s direst warnings and culminated with World War I in the follow-
ing century.
Meanwhile the first Industrial Revolution became dormant by 1830. Men thought that every-
thing meant to be invented had been invented. Indeed, the U.S. Government was seriously con-
sidering the closure of the Patent Office. Then on the very day that the Báb opened a new
epoch in human history in 1844 with the Declaration of His mission, Samuel Morse sent his
first telegraph message “What hath God wrought?”16 This coincided with the emergence of the
second Industrial Revolution that was in full swing by 1891 when Bahá’u’lláh wrote “this
mighty and wondrous Tablet”. These developments were in stark contrast to the backward look-
ing conditions in Persia.
Iran — Its fall from grace (1795-1925)
The land of Persia, which had such a glorious past, fell into the pit of corruption and despo-
tism under the Qájár Dynasty. Its first ruler, Ághá Mo˙ammad Khán, a leader of the Turkmen
Qájár tribe had eliminated all of his rivals by 1794 and had regained territories in Georgia and
the Caucasus. A year after he was formally crowned in 1796, he was assassinated and succeed-
ed by his nephew, Fath ‘Alí Sháh who lost all that had been gained by his predecessor plus
Armenia and Azerbaijan to Russia. In 1834 he was succeeded by his grandson Mo˙ammad Sháh
who died in 1848. Succession then passed to his son Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh, the grandfather of the
above mentioned Ma˙múd Mírzá (the Jalúlu’l-Dawlih). Naßri’d-Dín was assassinated in 1846 and
the crown was passed to his son Mozaffar’d-Dín Sháh, a weak and incompetent ruler who relin-
quished his rule to his son Mo˙ammad ‘Alí Sháh in 1907. He was deposed in 1909 and suc-
ceeded by his son Ahmad Sháh at the age of eleven. He proved to be effete, pleasure loving and
unable to preserve the integrity of Iran. In October of 1925 Ahmad Sháh was formally deposed
and the Qájár dynasty came to an end.17
It was Náßirí’d-Dín Sháh who was ultimately responsible for the immense pain and suffering
that befell Bahá’u’lláh and the embryonic Bahá’í Faith throughout the forty-eight years of his
reign. Ironically western scholars consider Náßiri’d-Dín to be the most successful Qájár
monarch in terms of modernization as he tried to introduce western technology and educa-
tional methods. But what was really happening in Iran at that time was not apparent to west-
ern eyes. Shoghi Effendi characterized this in no uncertain terms.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh, stigmatized by Bahá’u’lláh as the “Prince of Oppressors,” as one who
had “perpetrated what hath caused the denizens of the cities of justice and equity to
lament,” was . . . surrounded by “venal, artful and false” ministers whom he could elevate
or abase at his pleasure; the head of an administration in which “every actor was, in dif-
ferent aspects, both the briber and the bribed”; allied, in his opposition to the Faith, with
a sacerdotal order which constituted a veritable “church state”; supported by a people pre-
eminent in atrocity, notorious for its fanaticism, its servility, cupidity and corrupt prac-
tices, this capricious monarch, no longer able to lay hands upon the person of Bahá’u’lláh,
had to content himself with the task of attempting to stamp out in his own dominions the
remnants of a much-feared and newly resuscitated community.18
In spite of the great injustices heaped upon Bahá’u’lláh and His followers by Náßiri’d-Dín
Sháh and his Vizier in collusion with the leading mullás over the years—retaliation, verbal or
otherwise, was utterly discouraged by Bahá’u’lláh. Indeed, He always left the door open for
wrong-doers to change their ways, and did in fact acknowledge their somewhat limited contri-
butions to society. Concerns about the spiritual and human conditions in Persia moved
Bahá’u’lláh to encourage His son ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to write The Secret of Divine Civilization as
early as 1875 to deal with those issues in the Cradle of the Faith, Iran. The Sháh had by then
tried to introduce western concepts in the country but compromises among his advisors were
made that inevitably defeated any meaningful advantage of such action. The leading Divines
objected to any thing western in spite of obvious technological achievements that might bring
about improved conditions. Nevertheless, the stage was set for the infant Faith of Bahá’u’lláh
to address the abominable conditions facing humanity not only in Persia but also in the world
at large. Ensuing years would see the continuing rise of European powers based on technologi-
cal advancement and military ambitions.
A Voice in the Darkness
In the very first word of the first sentence in the Law˙-i-Dunyá, Bahá’u’lláh establishes a
mindset that breaks the bonds of human frailty. “Praise,” praise to God followed by “thanks-
giving,” thanksgiving to the “Lord of manifest dominion.” He is expressing this in the face of
great tribulations that are imposed upon Himself and His faithful followers. At the time of the
writing of the Tablet, the days of warning the leaders of the world had passed. In this Tablet
Bahá’u’lláh is foisting His affirmations, lamentations, proclamations and warnings upon the
people. He is also sharing His admonitions, invocations, commandments and praise with the
individual believer.
The Tablet first places honor on Hand of the Cause Óájí Mullá ‘Alí-Akbar Shah-mírzádí and
Trustee of Bahá’u’lláh, Óájí ‘Abdu’l-Óasan-i-Amin who had been thrown into the ‘mighty
prison’ of Qazvín to appease the enemies of the Cause.19 Bahá’u’lláh follows with a reaffirma-
tion of the ultimate authority that rests with God alone. He then addresses the people of Persia,
a land of such great knowledge and erudition, with a question: How have they come to such a
pass of self-destruction?
After appealing to the Afnán, descendents of the two brothers of the Báb’s wife and of His
maternal uncles, to arise to service in the Cause through the power of utterance, Bahá’u’lláh
expresses three distinct lamentations:
(1) Justice is, in this day, bewailing its plight, and Equity groaneth beneath the yoke of
oppression. The thick clouds of tyranny have darkened the face of the earth, and enveloped
its peoples; (2) Strife and conflict befit the beasts of the wild; (3) They that perpetrate
tyranny in the world have usurped the rights of the peoples and kindreds of the earth and

An Exposition of the Law˙-i-Dunyá
are sedulously pursuing their selfish inclinations.20
To justice He proclaims that through His Pen of glory, new life has been breathed into every
human frame and into every word a fresh potency. He asks His followers “Wherefore fear ye,
O My well-beloved ones? Who is it that can dismay you? . . . The mere act of your gathering
together is enough to scatter the forces of these vain and worthless people.”21 He likens this to
how a few drops of moisture can soften hardened clay. To strife and conflict He emphasizes
how the hearts of men are won over by goodly words and praiseworthy deeds. He uses the
example of how the Bábís returned their swords to their scabbards and then commands us not
to forsake prudence. To tyranny Bahá’u’lláh, in referring to the aforementioned ‘Seven Martyrs
of Yazd’, addresses the governor of the city of Yazd, Ma˙múd Mírzá the Jalúlu’l-Dawlih: “The
tyrant of the land of Yá (Yazd), committed that which hath caused the Concourse on High to
shed tears of blood.”22
Bahá’u’lláh returns to the demise of Persia after beseeching His followers to gaze upon the
horizon of His Revelation. He observes “How strange that the people of Persia, who were unri-
valled in sciences and arts, should have sunk to the lowest level of degradation among the kin-
dreds of the earth.”23 The consequences of corruption during the Qájár Dynasty had taken its
toll. Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh had for many years attempted to improve the lot of Iran but every effort
was stillborn due to the bickering among his advisors and their intractable objections to any-
thing western. In fact it was the very corruption of his own administration that constituted its
worst barrier to modernization. It was rumored that western manufacturers found it impossi-
ble to approach the court by virtue of the ‘path of gold’ resulting from bribery at every level
of government. To this deplorable condition Bahá’u’lláh responds: “O people! In this blessed,
this glorious Day, deprive not yourselves of the liberal effusions of bounty which the Lord of
abounding grace hath vouchsafed unto you.”24
In this Tablet a stark contrast is continually drawn between what the people are preoccupied
with and what their proper focus should be that reveals a deep spiritual problem in Persia:
Arise, O people, and by the power of God’s might, resolve to gain the victory over your
own selves, that haply the whole earth may be freed and sanctified from its servitude to
the gods of its idle fancies—gods that have inflicted such loss upon, and are responsible
for the misery of their wretched worshippers. These idols form the obstacle that impedeth
man in his efforts to advance in the path of perfection.25
Bahá’u’lláh then extends this to humankind in general with the hope that the Hand of divine
power may lend assistance to deliver mankind from “grievous abasement”. He then refers to
admonitions in a former Tablet:
O people of God! Do not busy yourselves in your own concerns; let your thoughts be fixed
upon that which will rehabilitate the fortunes of mankind and sanctify the hearts and souls
of men. This can best be achieved through pure and holy deeds, through a virtuous life
and a goodly behaviour.26
It is always with the well being of humanity in mind that Bahá’u’lláh addresses the problems
of Persia and of the world. “O friends! It behoveth you to refresh and revive your souls through
the gracious favours which in this Divine, this soul-stirring Springtime are being showered
upon you.”27 He admonishes that we should let our vision be world embracing for this is a new
Day with new laws. For example a new law is that we are forbidden to engage in contention and
conflict: “It is incumbent upon every man, in this Day, to hold fast unto whatsoever will pro-
mote the interests, and exalt the station, of all nations and just governments.”28 He says that
the doors of love are now open and that we should “Consort with the followers of all religions

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship.”29 Whatever caused dissension in the past has been
abolished. Loving one’s country is no longer enough; we should learn to love the world. We are
admonished to observe courtesy and to become “attired with the vesture of uprightness.” In
this Day, constancy must become a reality among the people of justice. Bahá’u’lláh emphasizes
that His summons and message were never intended to benefit one land or one people only. He
declares, “The whole earth is illuminated with the resplendent glory of God’s Revelation.”30
Western powers were far removed from such spiritual invocation. Though they dominated the
world with technological superiority, Europe and America had become so caught up in ‘heroic
materialism’ that their spiritual eyes and ears were closed. Power, military or economic, drove
every aspect of life. This, coupled with spiritual corruption in Islam, particularly in Shí‘ih
Persia, produced a truly darkened world. On this stage of human depredation and against the
background of ill-guided secularism, Bahá’u’lláh addresses the world of man.
Impact on the World
As a prisoner in the city of ‘Akká, Bahá’u’lláh revealed the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the Book of laws
that He referred to as ‘The Most Holy Book’. In the Tablet of the World He makes mention of
the Aqdas as being conducive to the reconstruction of the world and points out five of the
principles for the administration of the affairs of men:
(1) It is incumbent upon the ministers of the House of Justice to promote the Lesser Peace
so that the people of the earth may be relieved from the burden of exorbitant expenditures.
(2) Languages must be reduced to one common language to be taught in all the schools of
the world. (3) It behoveth man to adhere tenaciously unto that which will promote fellow-
ship, kindliness and unity. (4) Everyone, whether man or woman, should hand over to a
trusted person a portion of what he or she earneth through trade, agriculture or other
occupation, for the training and education of children, to be spent for this purpose with
the knowledge of the Trustees of the House of Justice. (5) Special regard must be paid to
agriculture. Although it hath been mentioned in the fifth place, unquestionably it pre-
cedeth the others.31
The last one particularly applied to Persia because under the Qájár dynasty its agriculture
had been severely neglected.
More than material needs plagued Persia. Its spiritual descent found no seekers of truth or
of equity. But the counsel and exhortation by Bahá’u’lláh did prove effective when the friends
interceded on behalf of their enemies with high authorities. He said that “righteous deeds tes-
tify to the truth of one’s deeds.” In His deep concern He exclaims:
O people of God! Countless are the realms which Our Pen of Glory hath revealed and man-
ifold the eyes to which it hath imparted true enlightenment. Yet most of the people in
Persia continue to be deprived of the benefits of profitable counsels and remain sorely
lacking in useful sciences and arts.32
Even more disturbing:
The unbelievers and the faithless have set their minds on four things: first, the shedding
of blood; second, the burning of books; third, the shunning of the followers of other reli-
gions; fourth, the extermination of other communities and groups.33
Hence, Bahá’u’lláh maintains that all these barriers have been abolished through the poten-
cy of the Word of God. He asks us to beseech God to guide the followers of the Shí’ih sect to
purge them of unseemly conduct.

An Exposition of the Law˙-i-Dunyá
Again He appeals to the ‘People of God’ to listen to His call for new laws that are indis-
pensable to Persia. He emphasizes that the Sháh’s views should be considered in consultation
with other leaders without which chaos would result. He considers the government of Britain
to be a good example because it has both kingship and consultation of the people. Still, regard-
ing law and its penalties, He maintains that it is the fear of God that restrains man both
inwardly and outwardly more than laws alone. Then Bahá’u’lláh looks beyond Persia to the
world under European domination in His admonitions. The west, which is the very source for
material advancement of which Persia is advised to partake, has its own inadequacy with regard
to spiritual advancement. The solution to this can only be found in the east under the purview
of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation. In His innermost heart He asks God to sanctify the souls of His
servants and to deliver them from the fire with which they are beset at all times. “Aid them,
O Lord, to acquire such virtues as will exalt their stations among the peoples of the world . .
. ”34
In this new dispensation the people of God are admonished to listen to the counsels of
Bahá’u’lláh speaking with the voice of God Whose word is like a sapling with roots planted in
the hearts of men. We are called to foster its growth through the living waters of wisdom and
holy words. Social laws of the past that were the source of malice have been abrogated and
replaced with prerequisites of concord and unity. Great astonishment is expressed by
Bahá’u’lláh as to how the nobility in Persia had stooped to boundless shame by embracing the
ingratiating behavior of a certain individual. Their sense of resolve, dignity and honor had
sunk so low that some had “allowed themselves to become playthings in the hands of the fool-
ish.”35 Bahá’u’lláh admonished this individual to say a prayer that is enshrined within this
Tablet:
O God my God! Thou seest me standing before the door of thy forgiveness and benevo-
lence, turning my gaze toward the horizon of Thy bountiful favours and manifold bless-
ings. I beg of Thee by Thy sweet accents and by the shrill voice of Thy Pen, O Lord of all
mankind, to graciously aid Thy servants as it befitteth Thy days and beseemeth the glory
of Thy manifestation and Thy majesty. Verily potent art Thou to do whatsoever Thou
willest. All they that dwell in the heavens and on the earth bear witness to Thy power and
Thy might, to Thy glory and Thy bounteousness. Praise be to Thee, O Lord of the worlds
and the Well-Beloved of the heart of every man of understanding!
Thou beholdest, O my God, the essence of poverty seeking the ocean of Thy wealth and
the substance of iniquity yearning for the waters of Thy forgiveness and Thy tender mercy.
Grant Thou, O my God, that which beseemeth Thy great glory and befitteth the loftiness
of Thy boundless grace. Thou art in truth the All-Bountiful, the Lord of grace abounding,
the Ordainer, the All-Wise. No God is there but Thee, the most powerful, the All-
Compelling, the Omnipotent.36
More admonitions are expressed in the Law˙-i-Dunyá:
Do not forsake prudence. Incline your hearts to the counsels given by the Most Exalted
Pen and beware lest your hands or tongues cause harm unto anyone . . . deprive not your-
selves of liberal effusions of bounty . . . Well is it with them who judge His Cause with
fairness . . . 37 Watch over yourselves, for the Evil One is lying in wait, ready to entrap
you. Gird yourselves against his wicked devices, and, led by the light of the name of the
all seeing God, make your escape from the darkness that surroundeth you.38
Bahá’u’lláh also expresses affirmations such as “Sovereignty is God’s . . . 39 Valiant acts will
assure the triumph of this Cause, and a saintly character will reinforce its power.”40 He further
appeals to God on behalf of His creatures to shield them from His enemies. And He praises the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
Hands of the Cause. Examples of His lamentations were given earlier with reference to the
Afnán. He proclaims to them and those that have branched from His ancient stock: “How vast
is the tabernacle of the Cause of God . . . Thy day of service is now come . . . Arise for the tri-
umph of My Cause, and, through the power of thine utterance, subdue the hearts of men.”41
Conclusion
The technological supremacy of Europe which evolved as an outgrowth of modern science
had the unfortunate effect of undermining spiritual priorities that had reigned long on the con-
tinent. The second Industrial Revolution accelerated so rapidly that moral, ethical and spiritu-
al values simply could not keep pace with resultant materialism. Political revolution and mili-
tarism combined with old hatreds to produce a powder keg of precarious uncertainty among
the nations of Europe, who literally ruled the world under the colonial system.
Persia in the meantime had sunk to its lowest ebb, spiritually and economically. It desper-
ately needed the aid of western technology but the corruption endemic to the Qájár Dynasty
had produced an impasse to progress that secular forces could not overcome. Still the people of
the region had a strong proclivity toward spiritual matters regardless of their misdirection.
In 1891, the last year of His life, Bahá’u’lláh faced this strange enigma regarding secular and
spiritual tensions that threatened the well being of mankind by writing the Tablet of the
World. In It He directly related the Kitáb-i-Aqdas as the basis of law for any future world order.
He simultaneously addressed the need for justice on a grand scale and for rectitude of conduct
on the individual level. He specifically made the Universal House of Justice responsible for
promoting the Lesser Peace and reiterated the need for a common language. Through a series of
admonitions, affirmations, commandments, invocations, lamentations, proclamations, ques-
tions and warnings, He laid out the solutions that would direct the world toward peace.
Bahá’u’lláh has provided the key that unlocks the doors of science, of art, of knowledge, of
well-being, of prosperity and of wealth. The oppressors have not silenced his shrill voice and
He has not been hindered by the perverse or seditious from revealing the Word of God. He asks
God to protect and purge the Bahá’ís from corrupt imaginings of the followers of the former
Faith. Lastly, He Bestows a great honor on the people of Bahá with the following words:
The glory which proceedeth from God, the Lord of the Throne on High and of the earth
below, rest upon you, O people of Bahá, O ye the companions of the Crimson Ark, and
upon such as have inclined their ears to your sweet voices and have observed that where-
unto they are bidden in this mighty and wondrous Tablet.42
Finally, believers in those early days of the Faith, though small in number, were heroes of
steadfastness in the embryonic stage of the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. That tiny, vulnerable
community was the hope of the future for man and ‘The Blessed Beauty’ spared no effort in
sustaining their spirit. Believers in Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation must always keep before themselves
the beneficent gift of His vision that He has graciously presented to mankind. Within the con-
text of His Revelation lie the secret things that can bring about the uplifting of the spirit of
every human being and the subsequent advancement of civilization.
Notes
1) Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 201-2.
2) Taherzadeh, Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh Volume 4, 329.
3) John H. Randall, The Making of The Modern Mind, 253.
4) Encyclopedia Britannica 2001, Standard Edition CD, Enlightenment.
5) John H. Randall, The Making of The Modern Mind, 415.
6) ibid., 544.

An Exposition of the Law˙-i-Dunyá
7) Bahá’u’lláh, The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh, 81-83.
8) Encyclopedia Britannica 2001, Standard Edition CD, The Roman Question.
9) Ernst Troeltsch, “Protestantism and the Industrial Revolution,” Protestantism, 162-165.
10) John H. Randall, The Making of The Modern Mind, 301-302.
11) Encyclopedia Britannica 2001, Standard Edition CD, European Expansion Since 1763.
12) ibid, French Revolution, also called “Revolution of 1789.” Hence the conventional term “Revolution of 1789,”
denoting the end of the ancient regime . . . Although historians disagree on the causes of the Revolution, the
following reasons are commonly adduced: (1) France had the largest population in Europe and could not feed
it adequately, (2) the rich and expanding bourgeoisie was excluded from political power more systematically
than in any other country, (3) the peasants were acutely aware of their situation and were less and less inclined
to support the anachronistic and burdensome feudal system, (4) the Philosophers, who advocated social and
political reform, had been read more widely in France than elsewhere, and (5) French participation in the
American Revolutionary War had completed the ruin of the states finances.
13) Hammerton and Barnes, The Illustrated World History, 831.
14) Bahá’u’lláh, The Summons of The Lord of Hosts, 67.
15) Hammerton and Barnes, The Illustrated World History, 932.
16) Encyclopedia Britannica 2001 Standard Edition CD, Carlton Mabee, Life of Samuel F. B. Morse.
17) ibid., Qajar Dynasty.
18) Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 197.
19) Taherzadeh, Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh Volume 4, 338.
20) Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, 84-85.
21) ibid.
22) ibid., 85.
23) ibid.
24) ibid.
25) ibid., 86.
26) ibid.
27) ibid.
28) ibid., 87.
29) ibid.
30) ibid., 89.
31) ibid., 89-90.
32) ibid., 91.
33) ibid.
34) ibid., 92.
35) ibid., 95.
36) ibid., 95-96.
37) ibid., 85.
38) ibid., 87.
39) ibid., 83.
40) ibid., 86.
41) ibid., 84.
42) ibid., 97.
Bibliography
Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, London, UK: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1949.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh to the Kings and Rulers of the World, Haifa: Bahá’í World Center,
1967.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Summons of the Lord of Hosts, Haifa: Bahá’í World Center, 2002.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, Haifa: Bahá’í World Center, 1978.
Encyclopedia Britannica Standard Edition CD, Chicago, Ill.: Britannica.com Inc., 1994-2001.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
Hammerton, Sir John and Barnes, Dr. Harry Elmer. The Illustrated World History, New York, N. Y.: Wm. Wise
and Company, 1938.
Randall, John Herman Jr. The Making of The Modern Mind, Cambridge, Ma.: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1954.
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By, Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í Publishing Trust 1970.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Volume 4, Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 1988.
Troeltsch, Ernst. “Protestanism and the Industrial Revolution,” Protestanism, New York, N. Y.: George Braziller,
1962.

Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III
Ismael Velasco
T
he first Tablet to Napoleon III, together with the Suriy-i-Muluk, the Kitáb-i-Badí‘, the
Prayers for Fasting, the Lawh-i-Sultán, and the Suriy-i-Ra’ís, are listed in God Passes By
(p. 171) not only as the six “most outstanding among the innumerable Tablets revealed in
Adrianople, but as occupying a foremost position among all the writings of the Author of the
Bahá’í Revelation.” And yet, notwithstanding its significance, it has never been published in its
original language.1 Its historical circumstances are likewise less than self-evident, and existing
discussions of this Tablet tend to raise more questions than they answer.2
Content
Bahá’u’lláh’s first Tablet to Napoleon III (1808-1873) is altogether unique among His tablets
to the monarchs of the world. Its contents are summarised by Shoghi Effendi as follows:
To Napoleon III Bahá’u’lláh addressed a specific Tablet, which was forwarded through one
of the French ministers to the Emperor, in which He dwelt on the sufferings endured by
Himself and His followers; avowed their innocence; reminded him of his two pronounce-
ments on behalf of the oppressed and the helpless; and, desiring to test the sincerity of his
motives, called upon him to “inquire into the condition of such as have been wronged,”
and “extend his care to the weak,” and look upon Him and His fellow-exiles “with the eye
of loving-kindness.”3
Shoghi Effendi’s descriptions of other tablets in the same book shows that these descriptions
are in fact codifications of their contents and major themes, and so we can assume that the
above summary is not missing any features which the Guardian thought worthy of particular
notice.
While Shoghi Effendi translated extracts of this Tablet in The Promised Day is Come,
Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney’s partial translation of this Tablet in L’Oeuvre de Bahaou’llah, is the
most complete published version of this Tablet to date, which remains otherwise inaccessible.
The Dreyfus translation contains all the salient features identified by the Guardian in God
Passes By. On these grounds, and based on the similarities of translation (see appendix 2) it
seems likely they were working to the same manuscript, and that we have in the Dreyfus trans-
lation an almost complete text.
When Bahá’u’lláh compiled the Suratu’l-Haykal He included His second Tablet to Napoleon,
but left out the first one. This makes this Tablet distinctive and may explain why it has not
drawn much scholarly notice or been published in publications relating to Bahá’u’lláh’s messages
to the kings and rulers. In Modernity and Millenium, Juan Cole suggests that in this Tablet
Bahá’u’lláh was “announcing himself as the world messiah and asking the French to put pres-
sure on the Ottomans to stop their persecution of the Bahá’ís.”4 In his paper on Bahá’u’lláh’s
letters to the kings, Cole further holds that Bahá’u’lláh’s first Tablet to Napoleon III was “seek-
ing recognition of the new Bahá’í religion”.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
On the basis of both the Dreyfus translation and Shoghi Effendi’s summary of this Tablet, it
seems in fact highly improbable that this Tablet includes a direct messianic proclamation by
Bahá’u’lláh or a call to embrace His faith, such as He would voice emphatically in His second
Tablet to Napoleon. Certainly, there is nothing in the published translations to suggest such a
proclamation. Indeed, Shoghi Effendi writes of this Tablet:
In His first Tablet Bahá’u’lláh, wishing to test the sincerity of the Emperor’s motives, and
deliberately assuming a meek and unprovocative tone . . .5
Nor is there any indication in Shoghi Effendi’s description of a proclamatory passage. Thus,
while it is impossible to be completely certain in the absence of an original manuscript or even
a full translation, it seems almost definite that this Tablet did not, in fact, involve a messian-
ic announcement. This is the likely reason for its exclusion from the Suratu’l-Haykal, which is
in essence a proclamatory text, incompatible with a tablet written in “a meek and unprovoca-
tive tone”.
This leaves the question of what is missing from the current translation. On the basis of
Shoghi Effendi’s descriptive summaries and Dreyfus’ own introduction, the answer would seem
to be very little. All the themes and passages described or translated by the Guardian are
included in the Dreyfus translation. This would suggest that what is missing is an opening
invocation and possibly a brief preamble, addressing Napoleon. It is possible that such a pre-
amble makes allusive reference to His divine claim and station, but probably not forcefully
enough (or at all) to draw the Guardian’s or Dreyfus’ notice. Also missing is an ending, almost
certainly quite brief, perhaps invoking in typical manner the divine names.
The Tablet breathes pathos and urgency, while retaining a sense of dignity. It narrates in
heartbreaking language twenty five years of privations and sufferings afflicting the followers
of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh, including pillage, violence, exile, slavery, imprisonment, even
though they were innocent of any crime. “Sucklings have well nigh drank the cup of martyr-
dom,”6 He laments, and pity hath been shown to neither men nor women!” The tone of
Bahá’u’lláh’s appeal to Napoleon amidst such oppression is not one of supplication. Rather,
Bahá’u’lláh elevates His address to the level of principle, by celebrating Napoleon’s statements
regarding his sense of obligation towards the oppressed and the helpless. Bahá’u’lláh then con-
firms the validity of such principles, and unambiguously lays out the duty incumbent upon the
Emperor: “It beseemeth the king of the age to inquire into the condition of such as have been
wronged, and it behooveth him to extend his care to the weak.”7 On the basis of this spiritu-
al principle, assumed by the Emperor himself, Bahá’u’lláh makes clear the necessity for
Napoleon to extend upon His community “the shelter of royal protection”.8
The Tablet was written in the throes of what Shoghi Effendi described as a “supreme crisis”,9
and which Bahá’u’lláh named the ‘most great separation’, the ‘Days of stress’ (Ayyam-i-Shidad),
when Mirza Yahya, whom He designated the “Most Great Idol”, openly defied Him, calumni-
ated Him, humiliated Him and finally made the attempt on His life which left its marks upon
His health until the end of His days.10 In the final passages of His Tablet to Napoleon,
Bahá’u’lláh touchingly evokes the condition of His followers in the aftermath of these events:
“Their strength hath reached its limit, and there remains in their hearts neither patience nor
endurance.”11
Date of Revelation
We know from Bahá’u’lláh’s own testimony (Epistle to the Son of the Wolf p. 45) that this
Tablet was revealed in Adrianople. Shoghi Effendi, moreover, relates the revelation of this
Tablet, together with the significant tablets mentioned at the beginning of this paper, to the

Bahá’u’lláh’s First Epistle to Napoleon III
period “Almost immediately after the ‘Most Great Separation’ had been effected”.12 Building on
this statement Jonah Winters estimates the revelation of this Tablet to have taken place in
1866-1867.13 On the basis of both internal and circumstantial evidence, however, the 1866-
1867 dating of Bahá’u’lláh’s first Tablet to Napoleon must be revised.
In the Tablet Bahá’u’lláh recounts in heartbreaking language twenty five years of suffering
and oppression inflicted on the Bábí-Bahá’í communities. This date must refer, in order to tally
with the Adrianople dating, to the year 1260 A.H./1844 A.D. and the declaration of the Bab,
which makes the date of Revelation sometime in 1285 A.H./1868 A.D. Furthermore, since this
Tablet does not mention the Ottoman decree of exile to Gallipoli and thence to ‘Akká, the
Tablet must have been written before the fifth of Rabí’u’th-Thání 1285 A.H. (July 26, 1868),
the date of the Farman.14 Given its theme, the likelihood is that the Tablet was written as the
government opposition that would eventuate in Bahá’u’lláh’s exile began to make itself felt in
spring-summer of 1868. In all likelihood, the Tablet was written during the turmoil of the
Commission of Investigation, following hostile reports from the Vali of Adrianople to the
Sublime Porte.
The Porte received the Vali’s report on the 20 Dhi’l-Hijjih 1284 (14 April 1868) after a series
of interrogations of Bahá’ís and Azalis between April 1 and April 7 of that year. It was found,
and recorded on 5 Muharram 1285 (28 April 1868), that Bahá’u’lláh and Mírzá Ya˙yá had put
forth claims to high religious station which could constitute a threat to public order. The ensu-
ing intervention of a Commission of Investigation culminated in a report dated 26 Safar 1285
(18 June 1868) on which the edict of exile was based.15
On the basis of the above, we can be confident in dating the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh’s first
Tablet to Napoleon to the period between late April and early June, and most likely May of
1868. The Tablet must have been written around the same time as the Tablet to the Shah, to
judge from striking similarities with paragraph 20 of that Tablet.16
Transmission
The matter of the transmission of this Tablet to Napoleon the III is more elusive. In the
Epistle to the Son of the Wolf (p. 45), Bahá’u’lláh narrates:
Addressing Himself unto the kings and rulers of the earth—may God, exalted be He, assist
them—He imparted unto them that which is the cause of the well-being, the unity, the har-
mony, and the reconstruction of the world, and of the tranquillity of the nations. Among
them was Napoleon III, who is reported to have made a certain statement, as a result of
which We sent him Our Tablet while in Adrianople. To this, however, he did not reply.
After Our arrival in the Most Great Prison there reached Us a letter from his Minister, the
first part of which was in Persian, and the latter in his own handwriting. In it he was cor-
dial, and wrote the following: “I have, as requested by you, delivered your letter . . .”
Likewise, ‘Abdu’l-Baha in Some Answered Questions (p. 32), stated:
Upon His arrival in prison He addressed an epistle to Napoleon, which He sent through
the French ambassador. The gist of it was, “Ask what is Our crime, and why We are con-
fined in this prison and this dungeon.”
By prison, a footnote in the authorised English translation clarifies, Adrianople is meant, in
accordance with Bahá’u’lláh’s own witness. For our purposes the essential point is that the
Tablet was sent “through the French ambassador”. The Persian reads “va ba-vásita safír farán-
siya ársál shud” (Mufáwadát, p. 24), where safír means ambassador. Bahá’u’lláh’s account,
which states the letter was sent from Adrianople through a minister, uses the word wázir.17 In

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
an unpublished tablet to Sulaymán Khán in private hands, it is mentioned that the first Tablet
to Napoleon was sent through a minister (vázir) that was friendly to Bahá’u’lláh.18
1) Who was this minister/ambassador who transmitted Bahá’u’lláh’s first Tablet to Napoleon?
Dreyfus’ suggestion that this letter was delivered by Cesar Cattafago, consular agent for
France in ‘Akká, although correct for Bahá’u’lláh’s second Tablet, is anachronistic for the
first Tablet, given its Adrianople dating. We can exclude this option. Three further pos-
sibilities present themselves:
2) Following ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s usage of the word safír, we might think of the French ambassador
to Constantinople, Monsieur Bouree. This seems unlikely, for two reasons. First,
Bahá’u’lláh being located in Adrianople, and in contact with the acting French vice-con-
sul there, it would make less sense for Him to rely on a French representative based in
Constantinople. Second, a letter from the vice-consul at Adrianople, F. Ronzevalle, to the
Ambassador at Constantinople,19 about Bahá’u’lláh’s exile to ‘Akká includes a basic intro-
duction to the situation and person of Bahá’u’lláh, assuming no prior knowledge, which
would add to the likelihood of no previous contact.
3) Vice-Consul F. Ronzevalle at Adrianople. This seems a more likely candidate, as his letter
demonstrates some contact with the Bahá’í community, and it was to him and not to the
Ambassador that the Bahá’ís turned after the decree exiling Bahá’u’lláh to ‘Akká was pro-
nounced. It would make sense to assume that an earlier letter would have pursued similar
channels. On the other hand, it is one thing to convey a message to the Ambassador in
Constantinople, and quite another to deliver it to Napoleon the III himself.
Finally, there is the Comte de Gobineau, who first drew attention to the Cause of the Báb in
Europe.20 Thomas Linard hypothetised some years ago21 that Gobineau might have been the
minister in question, on the basis of the Gobineau-Prokesch letters published by Beverige and
MacEoin in Bahá’í Studies Bulletin, vol.1, issue 4; as well as from the fact that Gobineau was
French plenipotentiary minister in Athens at the time and thus in proximity to ‘Akká.
Linard’s preliminary hypothesis may be further strengthened by Gobineau’s last published
letter to Prokesch, dated 31 August 1868.22 In this letter, Gobineau tells Prokesch “confiden-
tially” that Bahá’u’lláh had written to him “some months ago”, which would fit with the likely
time of composition of Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet. Gobineau wrote a response, to which he received
no reply from Bahá’u’lláh. He then wrote again to Bahá’u’lláh, enclosing a translated copy in
his letter to Prokesch, in which he confirms that the unanswered letter to Bahá’u’lláh had been
sent “through the intermediary of the Greek Consul”. He then tells Bahá’u’lláh of his lobbying
of the Austrian Ambassador on behalf of Bahá’u’lláh and His followers resulting in a “very
insistent” exchange with Fu’ad Pasha and the Ottoman government, before concluding: “As for
myself, I will act similarly in Paris with respect to the Government of the Emperor.”23 The
mention of a minister friendly to Bahá’u’lláh in the Tablet reported by Dr. Momen, would apply
most strongly to Gobineau, whose explicit and implicit expressions of sympathy and advocacy
are unmatched by any other European minister in the Adrianople period.
From the above it seems that we can be fairly confident in identifying Gobineau as the vehi-
cle for the transmission of Bahá’u’lláh’s first Tablet to Napoleon III. First, the timescales fit
well together, with Bahá’u’lláh’s letter arriving sometime in summer or late spring of 1868,
towards the concluding months of Gobineau’s stay in Athens. The fact that Gobineau used the
French consul to Athens as intermediary for his reply further strengthens the Greek connec-
tion. Secondly, at the time of Bahá’u’lláh’s letter, Gobineau would have fitted ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s des-
ignation of a safir, and as minister plenipotentiary, could also be described as a vazir. Thirdly,
the fact that he feels impelled to say to Prokesch that Bahá’u’lláh’s letter to him was confiden-

Bahá’u’lláh’s First Epistle to Napoleon III
tial, would support the idea of a message from Bahá’u’lláh of some import and sensitivity.
Fourthly, the tone of this first Tablet to Napoleon is similar to that found in the Prokesch-
Gobienau papers published by Beveridge and MacEoin cited earlier. Finally, Gobineau’s efforts
to make clear his political lobbying on behalf of Bahá’u’lláh, with a very clear reference to
Paris and the Government of the Emperor make it extremely likely that Gobineau is sensitive-
ly alluding to Bahá’u’lláh’s letter. From this perspective the urgency with which Gobineau asks
for Bahá’u’lláh’s response to his previous letter, would point to Gobineau’s letter being the self-
same one as is cited by Bahá’u’lláh in Epistle to the Son of the Wolf to which we now return:
After Our arrival in the Most Great Prison there reached Us a letter from his Minister, the
first part of which was in Persian, and the latter in his own handwriting. In it he was cor-
dial, and wrote the following: “I have, as requested by you, delivered your letter, and until
now have received no answer. We have, however, issued the necessary recommendations to
our Minister in Constantinople and our consuls in those regions. If there be anything you
wish done, inform us, and we will carry it out.”
At the very least, as Bahá’u’lláh’s citation informs us, the minister in question delivered the
Tablet to Napoleon and issued instructions to the French Ambassador in Constantinople as well
as the various consuls in the region. This may account in some measure for the willingness of
the French Consular Agent in France, Cesar Cattafago, to deliver Bahá’u’lláh’s second Tablet to
Napoleon. If, as we surmise, the minister in question was Gobineau, he went even further since
he wrote the letter cited by Bahá’u’lláh, lobbying the Austrian ambassador and through him
Fu’ad Pasha. In addition he mobilised Baron Prokesch for the same purposes.
However, Bahá’u’lláh explains that the minister in question misunderstood the purpose of
His Tablet, following His citation above with the following comment:
From his words it became apparent that he understood the purpose of this Servant to have
been a request for material assistance.
If Gobineau was the author of this letter, this explains why Bahá’u’lláh left the letter unan-
swered. Bahá’u’lláh’s first Tablet to Napoleon III was clearly aimed at triggering a response
equivalent to Napoleon’s vaunted emancipation of the oppressed Turks. It was for Napoleon to
use his power as the mightiest monarch in Europe to effect the emancipation of the Bahá’í com-
munity from the oppression of the Turkish and Persian governments. The minister took the
Tablet to be a request for personal assistance for Bahá’u’lláh, possibly of a pecuniary nature
(this is before it became apparent that Bahá’u’lláh and His companions in Adrianople faced
their most trying exile to date into the fortress town of ‘Akká). This, Bahá’u’lláh implies, was
not His purpose, which would explain His lack of response to such an offer and to such a let-
ter.
One note of caution to this identification might be the statement in Momen’s book of
Western accounts of the Bahá’í Faith, questioning on the basis of handwriting and style the
authenticity of purported tablets of Bahá’u’lláh in the Gobineau collection in Strasbourg
University.24 In fact, Momen has reversed his judgement on the authenticity of these tablets in
the light of further research, not only affirming their authenticity, but suggesting they support
the identification of Gobineau as the conduit of the first Tablet to Napoleon III.25
Reception
Our sole confirmation that the Tablet reached its recipient comes from the Minister’s letter
quoted in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. This Tablet would have been delivered sixteen
years into the Second French Empire, and one year after the disastrous end of Napoleon’s
Mexican venture, which left the noble Maximilian dead and his wife Charlotte bereft of her

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
wits for the rest of her long life. The political context was changing swiftly, in the wake of
Napoleon’s alignment with the Papal states against the Italian troops of Garibaldi. He
remained, at this time, the preeminent ruler in Europe, “Emperor of the French, the most pow-
erful ruler of his day on the European continent, Napoleon III.”26
Already, the seeds of his destruction were being sown, as prophesised so dramatically by
Bahá’u’lláh’s second Tablet to Napoleon. As Bismarck laid Prussian troops into the fortress of
the coveted city of Luxembourg, which Napoleon was in process of purchasing from the king
of the Netherlands, impending conflict loomed. It was less than two years to the fated Battle
of Sedan that would destroy his fortunes.
Shoghi Effendi, in Promised Day is Come (p. 51), recounts the following:
It is reported that upon receipt of this first Message that superficial, tricky, and pride-
intoxicated monarch flung down the Tablet saying: “If this man is God, I am two gods!”
Shoghi Effendi does not identify the source of this report. As the Bahá’í World Centre Research
Department explains:27
much historical research can be done, and indeed needs to be done, before we have a bet-
ter understanding of the reaction of the Monarchs to the Tablets addressed to them by
Bahá’u’lláh. In this regard, the following statement from a letter on behalf of the Universal
House of Justice may be of interest:
We do not know at the present time of any particular material about Napoleon III with
reference to his reported exclamation, “If this man is God, I am two Gods.” Such matters
will undoubtedly be investigated by Bahá’í historians in the future. (28 July 1971 to an
individual)
What is certain is that the Tablet received no reply. Napoleon’s response is discussed in sev-
eral instances in Bahá’í writings:
Hadst thou been sincere in thy words, thou wouldst have not cast behind thy back the
Book of God, when it was sent unto thee by Him Who is the Almighty, the All-Wise. We
have proved thee through it, and found thee other than what thou didst profess.28
He it was who cast the Tablet of God behind him when We made known unto him what
the hosts of tyranny had caused Us to suffer.29
During His exile and imprisonment He wrote Tablets of authority to the kings and rulers
of the world, announcing His spiritual sovereignty, establishing the religion of God,
upraising the heavenly banners of the Cause of God. One of these Tablets was sent to
Napoleon III, Emperor of France. He received it with contempt and cast it behind his
back.30
Significance
The significance that Shoghi Effendi ascribed to this Tablet by naming it among those “occu-
pying a foremost position among all the writings of the Author of the Bahá’í Revelation” may
be somewhat puzzling, given its “meek and unprovocative” tone. The awe-inspiring theological
meaning invested into this mild Tablet, however, is only understood when placed in the con-
text of both Bahá’u’lláh’s second Tablet to Napoleon, and the events that followed in Napoleon
III’s reign.
It was as a direct consequence of Napoleon’s indifference and tacit rejection of this first
Tablet, that Bahá’u’lláh wrote His second and most famous Tablet to Napoleon, giving him a
chance to make amends but announcing his demise should he persist in ignoring Bahá’u’lláh.

Bahá’u’lláh’s First Epistle to Napoleon III
The contrast between the first and second Tablets could not be greater. If the first one is meek,
the second is majestic. If the first one is conciliatory, the second is uncompromisingly chal-
lenging. The subject of Napoleon’s intervention in the Crimean war is again treated in the sec-
ond Tablet to Napoleon, as is his altruistic statement of his motivations for waging war on the
Czar, but this time the tone in which these common subjects are addressed is altogether dif-
ferent:
O King! We heard the words thou didst utter in answer to the Czar of Russia, concerning
the decision made regarding the war (Crimean War). Thy Lord, verily, knoweth, is informed
of all. Thou didst say: ‘I lay asleep upon my couch, when the cry of the oppressed, who
were drowned in the Black Sea, wakened me.’ This is what we heard thee say, and, verily,
thy Lord is witness unto what I say. We testify that that which wakened thee was not their
cry but the promptings of thine own passions, for We tested thee, and found thee wanti-
ng. Comprehend the meaning of My words, and be thou of the discerning. It is not Our
wish to address thee words of condemnation, out of regard for the dignity We conferred
upon thee in this mortal life. We, verily, have chosen courtesy, and made it the true mark
of such as are nigh unto Him. Courtesy, is, in truth, a raiment which fitteth all men,
whether young or old. Well is it with him that adorneth his temple therewith, and woe unto
him who is deprived of this great bounty. Hadst thou been sincere in thy words, thou
wouldst have not cast behind thy back the Book of God, when it was sent unto thee by
Him Who is the Almighty, the All-Wise. We have proved thee through it, and found thee
other than that which thou didst profess. Arise, and make amends for that which escaped
thee. Ere long the world and all that thou possessest will perish, and the kingdom will
remain unto God, thy Lord and the Lord of thy fathers of old. It behoveth thee not to con-
duct thine affairs according to the dictates of thy desires. Fear the sighs of this Wronged
One, and shield Him from the darts of such as act unjustly.
For what thou hast done, thy kingdom shall be thrown into confusion, and thine empire
shall pass from thine hands, as a punishment for that which thou hast wrought.
Commotions shall seize all the people in that land, unless thou arisest to help this Cause,
and followest Him Who is the Spirit of God (Jesus Christ) in this, the Straight Path.31
From this Tablet, as from Shoghi Effendi’s interpretations cited already, it becomes evident
that Bahá’u’lláh’s first Tablet to Napoleon III was, in Bahá’u’lláh’s eyes, in the nature of a test
of unimagined and altogether vast consequences. Napoleon III’s failure to meet the test of sin-
cerity implied in Bahá’u’lláh’s demand for restitution of the rights of the Bahá’í community,
according to Bahá’u’lláh and later Shoghi Effendi’s interpretation, would precipitate the confu-
sion of his kingdom and the passing of his sovereignty. It is implicit in Bahá’u’lláh’s second
Tablet that, had Napoleon responded differently to His first missive, had He demonstrated that
justice and altruism was the driving force of his vast enterprises, be it the Crimean war or the
hoped for emancipation of the Bahá’í community, then this dreadful and at the time incon-
ceivable debacle of his reign would not, according to Bahá’u’lláh, have taken place. On the
touchstone of this first Tablet to Napoleon the fate of the imperial world was judged and antic-
ipated by Bahá’u’lláh. Thus have the Bahá’í writings invested into this mild and relatively brief
Tablet a preponderant theological significance which predicate vast social and historic conse-
quences, ensuring it a high place in the canon of Bahá’í scripture.
Epilogue
It is fitting to close this paper with an extended citation of Shoghi Effendi’s theological
retelling, so reminiscent in their tone of the essays of Carlyle, of the tale of him whom Victor
Hugo named “the man of December”:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
Napoleon III, son of Louis Bonaparte (brother of Napoleon I), was, few historians will
deny, the most outstanding monarch of his day in the West. “The Emperor,” it was said of
him, “was the state.” The French capital was the most attractive capital in Europe, the
French court “the most brilliant and luxurious of the XIX century.” Possessed of a fixed
and indestructible ambition, he aspired to emulate the example, and finish the interrupt-
ed work, of his imperial uncle. A dreamer, a conspirator, of a shifting nature, hypocriti-
cal and reckless, he, the heir to the Napoleonic throne, taking advantage of the policy
which sought to foster the reviving interest in the career of his great prototype, had sought
to overthrow the monarchy. Failing in his attempt, he was deported to America, was later
captured in the course of an attempted invasion of France, was condemned to perpetual
captivity, and escaped to London, until, in 1848, the Revolution brought about his return,
and enabled him to overthrow the constitution, after which he was proclaimed emperor.
Though able to initiate far-reaching movements, he possessed neither the sagacity nor the
courage required to control them.
To this man, the last emperor of the French, who, through foreign conquest, had striven to
endear his dynasty to the people, who even cherished the ideal of making France the cen-
ter of a revived Roman Empire—to such a man the Exile of ‘Akká, already thrice banished
by Sultan Abdu’l-’Aziz, had transmitted, from behind the walls of the barracks in which He
lay imprisoned, an Epistle which bore this indubitably clear arraignment and ominous
prophecy: “ . . . For what thou hast done, thy kingdom shall be thrown into confusion, and
thine empire shall pass from thine hands, as a punishment for that which thou hast
wrought.”
. . . The significance of the somber and pregnant words uttered by Bahá’u’lláh in His sec-
ond Tablet was soon revealed. He who was actuated in provoking the Crimean War by his
selfish desires, who was prompted by a personal grudge against the Russian Emperor, who
was impatient to tear up the Treaty of 1815 in order to avenge the disaster of Moscow, and
who sought to shed military glory over his throne, was soon himself engulfed by a cata-
strophe that hurled him in the dust, and caused France to sink from her preeminent station
among the nations to that of a fourth power in Europe.
The Battle of Sedan in 1870 sealed the fate of the French Emperor. The whole of his army
was broken up and surrendered, constituting the greatest capitulation hitherto recorded in
modern history. A crushing indemnity was exacted. He himself was taken prisoner. His
only son, the Prince Imperial, was killed, a few years later, in the Zulu War. The Empire
collapsed, its program unrealized. The Republic was proclaimed. Paris was subsequently
besieged and capitulated. “The terrible Year” marked by civil war, exceeding in its feroci-
ty the Franco-German War, followed. William I, the Prussian king, was proclaimed
German Emperor in the very palace which stood as a “mighty monument and symbol of
the power and pride of Louis XIV, a power which had been secured to some extent by the
humiliation of Germany.” Deposed by a disaster “so appalling that it resounded through-
out the world,” this false and boastful monarch suffered in the end, and till his death, the
same exile as that which, in the case of Bahá’u’lláh, he had so heartlessly ignored.32
Napoleon III’s downfall recalls the Old Testament words to the fallen angel: “how low art
thou fallen, O Lucifer, son of the morning!” His fate evokes something of awe, the historian’s
somber wonder aptly voiced by Alistair Horne:
History knows of perhaps no more startling instance of what the Greeks called peripateia,
the terrible fall from prideful heights. Certainly no nation in modern times, so replete with
apparent grandeur and opulent in material achievement, has ever been subjected to a worse
humiliation in so short a time.33

Bahá’u’lláh’s First Epistle to Napoleon III
APPENDIX 1
Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III
From H. Dreyfus, L’OEUVRE DE BAHAOU’LLAH, vol. 2, pp. 97-98, Editions Ernest Leroux,
Paris, 1924
Dreyfus Intro
Many months before this [second Tablet to Napoleon III] was written, and upon arriving
at Saint-Jean-d’Acre, Bahá’u’lláh had addressed, through the intermediary of the French
Consul, Cesar Cattafago, a letter to Napoleon III which had remained unanswered. We
think it of interest to publish its essential contents:
. . . For twenty five years an entire group of God’s servants hath not had a single restful night
nor an instant’s tranquility, and hath been continuously exposed to the assaults of calumny and
the workings of violence. How many the children that have been made into orphans! How many
the mothers who have lost their child! How many more weep to find themselves separated from
their children! How many children do lament and groan in search of their mother! Sucklings
have well nigh drank the cup of martyrdom, and pity hath been shown to neither men nor
women!
How many the nights when, while the savage beasts and birds of prey reposed peacefully in
their forests, these servants could not, in their distress and exhaustion, find safe retreat or shel-
ter! How many the people who, in the eve, were posessed of rank and fortune, yet in the mor-
row woke in poverty and misery, their goods pillaged and their possessions taken! No land
remains untinged by the blood of these oppressed ones, nor soil where the graves of these
wretched ones may not be found. How many the women that have been ravished and taken from
country to country and town to town, and how many the men that have been sold to slavery!
How many have fled into the deserts, with none apprised of their whereabouts! How many oth-
ers still remain imprisoned! The sighs of these wronged ones rise up night and day, and their
appeals
for
succour
can
be
heard
incessantly.
And
yet
they
have
perpetrated no crime.
[Shoghi Effendi’s translation begins below (from The Promised Day Is Come, pp. 51-2]34
Two statements graciously uttered by the king of the age have reached the ears of these
wronged ones. These pronouncements are, in truth, the king of all pronouncements, the like
of which have never been heard from any sovereign. The first was the answer given the Russian
Government when it inquired why the war (Crimean) was waged against it. Thou didst reply:
“The cry of the oppressed who, without guilt or blame, were drowned in the Black Sea wak-
ened me at dawn. Wherefore, I took up arms against thee.” These oppressed ones, however,
have suffered a greater wrong, and are in greater distress. Whereas the trials inflicted upon
those people lasted but one day, the troubles borne by these servants have continued for twen-
ty and five years, every moment of which has held for us a grievous affliction.
The other weighty statement, which was indeed a wondrous statement manifested to the
world, was this: “Ours is the responsibility to avenge the oppressed and succour the helpless.”

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
The fame of the Emperor’s justice and fairness hath brought hope to a great many souls. It
beseemeth the king of the age to inquire into the condition of such as have been wronged, and
it behooveth him to extend his care to the weak. Verily, there hath not been, nor is there now,
on earth any one as oppressed as we are, or as helpless as these wanderers. [End of Shoghi
Effendi’s translation]
For all living beings, even the savage beasts and birds of prey, have a corner in which to find
shelter. These wronged ones, alone, are constantly captive in the chains of violence, their necks
prisoned in the bondage of hatred and passion. Their strength hath reached its limit, and there
remains in their hearts neither patience nor endurance. They call upon thee to look upon them
with the eye of loving-kindness35, that they might enjoy the shelter of royal protection . . .

Bahá’u’lláh’s First Epistle to Napoleon III
APPENDIX 2
A Comparison of Shoghi Effendi’s translation into English with
Dreyfus’ translation into French, rendered in English by Velasco
Shoghi Effendi’s translation (Promised Day is Come)
Two statements graciously uttered by the king of the age have reached the ears of these
wronged ones. These pronouncements are, in truth, the king of all pronouncements, the
like of which have never been heard from any sovereign. The first was the answer given
the Russian Government when it inquired why the war (Crimean) was waged against it.
Thou didst reply: “The cry of the oppressed who, without guilt or blame, were drowned in
the Black Sea wakened me at dawn. Wherefore, I took up arms against thee.” These
oppressed ones, however, have suffered a greater wrong, and are in greater distress.
Whereas the trials inflicted upon those people lasted but one day, the troubles borne by
these servants have continued for twenty and five years, every moment of which has held
for us a grievous affliction.
The other weighty statement, which was indeed a wondrous statement manifested to the
world, was this: “Ours is the responsibility to avenge the oppressed and succour the help-
less.” The fame of the Emperor’s justice and fairness hath brought hope to a great many
souls. It beseemeth the king of the age to inquire into the condition of such as have been
wronged, and it behooveth him to extend his care to the weak. Verily, there hath not been,
nor is there now, on earth any one as oppressed as we are, or as helpless as these wander-
ers.
Hippolyte Dreyfus-Barney’s translation into French, rendered by Velasco into English*
Two words, pronouced by the King of the age, have reached their ears, so beauteous that
no sovereign hath ever uttered their like. The first was the response to the Russian gov-
ernment who demanded wherefore was war waged against it. Thou hast said: “the cries of
the wretched innocents thrown into the Black Sea have, in the morn, woken me from my
sleep, and it was this that decided me to battle.” Behold, these oppressed ones are more
wretched still and more miserable, since the trials of those lasted but a day, whereas the
calamities we endure have not ceased for one moment in twenty five years!
The other remarkable word which, verily, astonished the world, was: “It is for us to avenge
the oppressed and succour the wretched.” The royal voice of justice and retribution there-
upon raised the hopes of a great multitude. It behoveth indeed the rulers of this world to
inquire into the condition of the oppressed; sympathy towards the feeble is among the
duties incumbent upon them. Verily, there is not, nor hath there ever been any upon the
earth more sorely oppressed than us, nor hath there ever been seen any more feeble.
* Translations by Dreyfus-Barney into French and then by Ismael Velasco into English are both to be consid-
ered Provisional Translations, not for further distribution.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
Notes
1) See McGlinn (ed.), Leiden Bibliography of Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablets. The bibliography overlooks Shoghi
Effendi’s translation in The Promised Day is Come, p. 51 as well as that in H. Dreyfus’ L’Oeuvre de
Bahaou’llah, vol. 2, pp. 97-98
2) Cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 45, 47; ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 32;
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By p. 171, 173, and The Promised Day is Come, p. 51; L’Oeuvre de
Bahaou’llah, vol. 2, pp. 97-98; Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, vol. 2 pp. 368-369 (which
merely repeats the latter reference); Jonah Winters “Overview of the Tablets to Napoleon”, online at
www.bahai-library.org/study; Juan Cole, Modernity and the Millenium, p. 63, and “Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablets to
the Rulers”, www-personal.umich.edu/jrcole/bhkings.htm
3) God Passes By (p. 173)
4) Juan Cole, Modernity and the Millenium, p. 63
5) The Promised Day is Come, p. 51
6) My translation from the Dreyfus text.
7) Cited by Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day Is Come, p. 52
8) My translation from the Dreyfus text.
9) God Passes By, p. 163.
10) Ibid. chapter X.
11) Ibid.
12) Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 171. The Most Great Separation refers to Bahá’u’lláh’s seclusion in the house
of Ridha Bey for two months beginning March 10, 1866, marking His final break of relations with Mirza
Yahya. Cf. Shoghi Effendi, ibid. p. 160ff.; Glenn Cameron and Wendy Momen, Basic Bahá’í Chronology;
Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, vol. 2 pp. 165ff.; Juan Cole, “The Surah of God:
Introduction and translation”, www-personal.umich.edu/jrcole/bhallah.htm
13) Jonah Winters “Overview of the Tablets to Napoleon”, he follows Cameron and Momen in dating the Most
Great Separation to 1866.
14) Cf. Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 186; Moojan Momen, The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions 1844-1944:
Some Contemporary Western Accounts, p. 199
15) See Momen, ibid., p. 199-200
16) Cf. “Summons of the Lord of Hosts”, para 20.
17) Cf. Lawh-i Mubárak khitab bih Shaykh Muhammad Taqí, bahai.com online version, p. 32
18) As reported by Moojan Momen, personal communication
19) Cited in Moojan Momen, op. cit., p. 190
20) See his Religions et Philosophies Dans L’Asie Centrale. See also biographical information in Momen,
21) e-mail communication
22) Cited in Momen, op. cit. p. 208
23) Ibid. pp. 208-209.
24) Ibid. p. 191
25) Personal communication
26) The Promised Day is Come, p. 20
27) Cited in letter of the Universal House of Justice, 1997 Nov 06, “Responses of Napoleon III and Queen
Victoria”
28) Second Tablet to Napoleon III, cited in Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 47
29) Kitab-i Aqdas, para 86.
30) Abdu’l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 211
31) Bahá’u’lláh, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 50-51
32) Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day is Come, p. 49-52
33) Alistair Horne, The Fall of Paris, p. 34, Macmillan, London, 1965.
34) Shoghi Effendi’s translation makes it almost certain that Dreyfus was working from an identical manu-
script, and shows the remarkable closeness of his French translation to the Guardian’s own, which may
mean that the Guardian may have used Dreyfus’ work as a starting-point to his own translation. See the
Appendix 2 for a comparison between my original translation of Dreyfus’ French, and Shoghi Effendi’s
English translation cited here.
35) “with the eye of loving kindness” inserted here on the basis of Shoghi Effendi’s translation in God Passes
By, p. 173

12/17/21, 6:50 PM
Celestial Pavilion, Inmates of
https://bahai-library.com/uhj_inmates_celestial_pavilion
1/2
Celestial Pavilion, Inmates of
by / on behalf of Universal House of Justice
published in Lights of Irfan, 4, pages 163-64

Wilmette, IL: Irfan Colloquia, 2003

M E M O R A N D U M

To: The Universal House of Justice

Date: 15 June 1994

From: Research Department

Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion

The Research Department has considered the questions about the meaning of a passage from the Writings of
Bahá'u'lláh raised by Mr. . . . in his electronic mail message of 20 May 1994. The passage in question appears in
Adib Taherzadeh's The Covenant of Bahá'u'lláh.1 Bahá'u'lláh states:
These are the days in which God hath proved the hearts of the entire company of His Messengers
and Prophets, and beyond them those that stand guard over His sacred and inviolable Sanctuary,
the inmates of the celestial Pavilion and dwellers of the Tabernacle of Glory. How severe, therefore,
the test to which they who join partners with God must needs be subjected!
Mr. . . . enquires about the meaning of a number of phrases in this extract. We provide the following response.

By way of introduction, we wish to note that, as Mr. . . . undoubtedly knows, authoritative interpretation of the
Writings is the exclusive province of the designated interpreters, 'Abdu'l-Bahá and the Guardian. To date, the
Research Department has not been able to locate any reference in the Writings or the letters of Shoghi Effendi
which interprets this particular passage from Gleanings. It is not, therefore, possible for us to state with any
certainty what the text means. Mr. . . . is encouraged to arrive at his own understanding of the statement.

1. "God hath proved the hearts. . ."

To assist Mr. . . . in thinking about the meaning of the above phrase, it is suggested that it might well be helpful
to consider the phrase within the context of the overall passage. The passage appears to underline the power of
God, the greatness of the Revelation and the judgment to which all will be subjected in these "days". As if to
emphasize the pervasiveness of this "test", it seems that Bahá'u'lláh is calling attention to the fact that, not only
are "they who join partners with God" to be "subjected" to a "severe" test, but also that "God hath proved the
hearts" of the other souls mentioned in the passage.

For additional statements about "they who join partners with God", Mr. . . . is referred to Gleanings from the
Writings of Bahá'u'lláh; see, for example, pp. 99-100, p. 166, p. 192, pp. 197-198,2 and Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh
Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 124 and p. 185.3

2. "those that stand guard over His sacred and inviolable Sanctuary, the inmates of the celestial Pavilion and
dwellers of the Tabernacle of Glory"

With regard to the identity of "those that stand guard. . .", the Research Department has not been able to find any
statement in the Writings which helps to clarify their identity. While we also have not been able to locate any
references in the Writings or letters of Shoghi Effendi which identify the other entities mentioned above, there
are many references to "inmates" and "dwellers". Such entities would appear to inhabit the spiritual realms. It is
suggested that Mr. . . . might well gain a deeper understanding of this subject by studying the Tablets revealed by
Bahá'u'lláh in which these terms appear.

12/17/21, 6:50 PM
Celestial Pavilion, Inmates of
https://bahai-library.com/uhj_inmates_celestial_pavilion
2/2
3. Spiritual "locations"
Mr. . . . enquires whether different spiritual "locations" or "stations" are implied in Bahá'u'lláh's reference to "His
sacred and inviolable Sanctuary", "the celestial Pavilion", and "the Tabernacle of Glory".
While the Bahá'í Writings contain many references to the spiritual worlds, this subject tends to remain shrouded
in mystery. Indeed, with regard to the "worlds of God", Bahá'u'lláh affirms that:
. . . the worlds of God are countless in their number, and infinite in their range. None can reckon or
comprehend them except God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.4
Further, 'Abdu'l-Bahá states that the Kingdom of God
is not a material place; it is sanctified from time and place. It is a spiritual world, a divine world,
and the center of the Sovereignty of God; it is freed from body and that which is corporeal, and it is
purified and sanctified from the imaginations of the human world. To be limited to place is a
property of bodies and not of spirits. Place and time surround the body, not the mind and spirit.5
Notes
1) The Covenant of Bahá'u'lláh (Oxford: George Ronald, 1992), p. 55. The extract, taken from Gleanings from the Writings of
Bahá'u'lláh, sec. VIII, is also quoted by Shoghi Effendi in God Passes By (Wilmette: Bahá'í Publishing Trust, 1987), p. 99.
2) Wilmette: Bahá'í Publishing Trust, 1983
3) Wilmette: Bahá'í Publishing Trust, 1988
4) Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, pp. 151-152
5) Some Answered Questions (Wilmette: Bahá'í Publishing Trust, 1984), p. 241

12/17/21, 6:49 PM
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation and Letters of the Living (huruf)
https://bahai-library.com/uhj_letters_bayan_huruf
1/1
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation and Letters of the Living (huruf)
by / on behalf of Universal House of Justice
published in Lights of Irfan, 4, page 165

Wilmette, IL: Irfan Colloquia, 2003

first written or published 1994-10-02
M E M O R A N D U M

To: The Universal House of Justice

Date: 2 October 1994

From: Research Department

Letters of the Quranic Dispensation

In an electronic mail message dated 30 August 1994, Mr. . . . requested information on a quotation from
Bahá'u'lláh, cited by the Guardian in God Passes By:
. . . the Letters of the Bayán, whose station is ten thousand times more glorious than that of the
letters of the Qur'ánic Dispensation. . .1
Mr. . . . wishes to know if the "Letters of the Bayán" are the same as the Letters of the Living. Also, he asks the
identity of the "Letters of the Qur'ánic Dispensation". These questions were referred to the Research
Department, and we offer the following response.

The word "Letters" (hurúf), used in the quotation above, has a definite background in the Writings of the Báb.
The Báb used the term hurúf in a number of ways that are similar but not identical in meaning. For instance, He
used hurúf to indicate all followers of a religion. As an example, in the Persian Bayán, Váhid 2, chapter 4, we
find "Hurúf-i-Alif" as a reference to the generality of the followers of Jesus Christ. In the same chapter, the term
"Hurúf-i-Qur'án" is a reference to Muslims in general.

The term hurúf is also used in the Persian Bayán (Váhid 4, chapter 6) to describe the earliest believers of the
Prophet Muhammad, i.e., those followers through whom other people accepted Islám. In the same manner, the
Báb identified his own earliest believers as the "Hurúf-i-Hayy" or Letters of the Living.

In addition, hurúf is found in the Persian Bayán as an appellation of the Shí'ih Imáms. In Váhid 2, chapter 17, for
example, Imám Husayn is referred to as the "Harf-i-Khámis" or the "Fifth Letter" (Harf is the singular form
of Hurúf).

The Research Department has not, to date, found any authoritative interpretation of the quoted passage
from God Passes By and therefore Mr. . . . is free to decide for himself in which context the term should be
understood.

Note:
1) God Passes By (Wilmette: Bahá'í Publishing Trust, 1987), p. 98.

The ‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
A Research Note
Moojan Momen
T
owards the end of the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, Bahá’u’lláh quotes a number of
Traditions of the Prophet Mu˙ammad regarding the city of ‘Akká. I list and number these
below in the order that they appear in the text and giving Shoghi Effendi’s translation:
In this connection it hath been deemed necessary to mention such traditions as have been
recorded regarding the blessed and honored city of ‘Akká, that haply thou mayest, O Hadi, seek
a path unto the Truth, and a road leading unto God.
In the name of God, the Compassionate, the Merciful.
The following hath been recorded concerning the merits of ‘Akká, and of the sea, and of
Aynu’l-Baqar (The Spring of the Cow) which is in ‘Akká:
1.
‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz, son of Abdu’-Salam, hath related unto us that the Prophet—may the
blessings of God and His salutations be upon him—hath said: “‘Akká is a city in Syria
to which God hath shown His special mercy.”
2.
Ibn-i-Mas’ud—may God be pleased with him—hath stated: “The Prophet—may the
blessings of God and His salutations be upon Him—hath said: ‘Of all shores the best
is the shore of Askelon, and ‘Akká is, verily, better than Askelon, and the merit of
‘Akká above that of Askelon and all other shores is as the merit of Mu˙ammad
above that of all other Prophets. I bring you tidings of a city betwixt two mountains
in Syria, in the middle of a meadow, which is called ‘Akká. Verily, he that entereth
therein, longing for it and eager to visit it, God will forgive his sins, both of the past
and of the future. And he that departeth from it, other than as a pilgrim, God will
not bless his departure. In it is a spring called the Spring of the Cow. Whoso drin-
keth a draught therefrom, God will fill his heart with light, and will protect him
from the most great terror on the Day of Resurrection.’”
3.
Anas, son of Malik—may God be pleased with him—hath said: “The Apostle of God—
may the blessings of God and His salutations be upon Him—hath said: ‘By the shore
of the sea is a city, suspended beneath the Throne, and named ‘Akká. He that
dwelleth therein, firm and expecting a reward from God—exalted be He—God will
write down for him, until the Day of Resurrection, the recompense of such as have
been patient, and have stood up, and knelt down, and prostrated themselves, before
Him.’”
4.
And He—may the blessings of God and His salutations be upon Him—hath said: “I
announce unto you a city, on the shores of the sea, white, whose whiteness is pleas-
ing unto God—exalted be He! It is called ‘Akká. He that hath been bitten by one of
its fleas is better, in the estimation of God, than he who hath received a grievous

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
blow in the path of God. And he that raiseth therein the call to prayer, his voice will
be lifted up unto Paradise. And he that remaineth therein for seven days in the face
of the enemy, God will gather him with Khi∂r—peace be upon Him—and God will
protect him from the most great terror on the Day of Resurrection.”
5.
And He—may the blessings of God—exalted be He—and His salutations be upon
Him—hath said: “There are kings and princes in Paradise. The poor of ‘Akká are the
kings of Paradise and the princes thereof. A month in ‘Akká is better than a thou-
sand years elsewhere.”
6.
The Apostle of God—may the blessings of God and His salutations be upon Him—
is reported to have said: “Blessed the man that hath visited ‘Akká, and blessed he that
hath visited the visitor of ‘Akká. Blessed the one that hath drunk from the Spring of
the Cow and washed in its waters, for the black-eyed damsels quaff the camphor in
Paradise, which hath come from the Spring of the Cow, and from the Spring of
Salvan (Siloam), and the Well of Zamzam. Well is it with him that hath drunk from
these springs, and washed in their waters, for God hath forbidden the fire of hell to
touch him and his body on the Day of Resurrection.”
The Prophet—may the blessings of God and His salutations be upon Him—is stated
to have said: “In ‘Akká are works of supererogation and acts which are beneficial,
which God vouchsafed specially unto whomsoever He pleaseth. And he that saith in
‘Akká: ‘Glorified be God, and praise be unto God, and there is none other God but
God, and most great is God, and there is no power nor strength except in God, the
Exalted, the Mighty,’ God will write down for him a thousand good deeds, and blot
out from him a thousand evil deeds, and will uplift him a thousand grades in
Paradise, and will forgive him his transgressions. And whoso saith in ‘Akká: ‘I beg
forgiveness of God,’ God will forgive all his trespasses. And he that remembereth
God in ‘Akká at morn and at eventide, in the night-season and at dawn, is better in
the sight of God than he who beareth swords, spears and arms in the path of God—
exalted be He!”
8.
The Apostle of God—may the blessings of God and His salutations be upon Him—
hath also said: “He that looketh upon the sea at eventide, and saith: ‘God is Most
Great!’ at sunset, God will forgive his sins, though they be heaped as piles of sand.
And he that counteth forty waves, while repeating: ‘God is Most Great!’—exalted be
He—God will forgive his sins, both past and future.”
9.
The Apostle of God—may the blessings of God and His salutations be upon Him—
hath said: “He that looketh upon the sea a full night is better than he who passeth
two whole months betwixt the Rukn and the Maqam. And he that hath been brought
up on the shores of the sea is better than he that hath been brought up elsewhere.
And he that lieth on the shore is as he that standeth elsewhere.”
Verily, the Apostle of God—may the blessings of God, exalted be He, and His salu-
tations be upon Him—hath spoken the truth. (Bahá’u’lláh: Epistle to the Son of the
Wolf, pages 177-181)
In my book Islam and the Bahá’í Faith, I have quoted a number of these Traditions regard-
ing ‘Akká. While I was writing the book I did a considerable amount of research to try to locate
the source of these traditions. There were several factors indicating that the source of these
Traditions was a work entitled Fa∂á’il ash-Shám wa Dimashq by a Syrian scholar Abu’l-Óasan
‘Alí ibn Mu˙ammad ar-Ruba’í al-Málikí, known as Ibn Abi’l-Hawl, who died in

444AH/1052AD. Ar-Ruba’í himself was a well-respected scholar resident in Damascus who had
travelled to various parts of the Islamic world including Egypt and Mecca and had collected
Traditions in these places. He is relied upon by many later authors including Ibn ‘Asákir in his
History of Damascus. The indications for this identification were as follows:
1.
The Iraqi Bahá’í scholar A˙mad Hamdí al-Mu˙ammad (Ad-Dalíl wa’l-Irshád, 3rd
printing, Matábi’ al-Bayán, Beirut, 1966, pp. 166-9) quotes several of these
Traditions and identifies the source as “Fa∂á’il ‘Akká wa Asqalán” from the book
“Fa∂á’il ash-Shám wa Dimashq by Abu’l-Óasan ar-Ruba’í” (p. 167).
2.
The Iranian Bahá’í scholar Hisam Noghabai (Bishárát Kutub Ásmání, 2nd edition,
privately printed, pp. 183-6) quotes several of these Traditions and states that they
are from “Fa∂á’il ‘Akká wa Asqalán of Ibn Abi’l-Hawl” (p. 183).
3.
I made enquiries from the Bahá’í World Centre to see if they had a copy of this work
by ar-Ruba’í and they sent a copy of a photocopy that they had received from
Habibu’llah Derakhshání that has a date on it which may be 127 (i.e. 1970). It
appears to be a manuscript or lithograph. On the first page is the title and author
Kitáb Fadá’il ash-Shám wa Dimashq compiled by Abu’l-Óasan ‘Alí ibn Mu˙ammad
ibn Shujá‘ ar-Ruba’í al-Málikí, known as Ibn Abi’l-Hawl, from the oral transmission
of Abu’l-Óasan ‘Alí ibn A˙mad ibn Zuhayr al-Málikí. On the following sheets all of
the Traditions that Bahá’u’lláh quotes appear (except the first) and they appear
almost in the same order as in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. There are minor
textual variations (see analysis of this at the end of this paper). On looking at the
photocopies, however, it becomes clear that the compiler of this item had taken the
title page and one further page from the work and then gone straight on to the pages
relating to ‘Akká which occupy pp. 3-23 and then he has added the final page. He has
numbered these consecutively but it is clear they are not consecutive.
4.
I discovered that a manuscript of Fa∂á’il ash-Shám wa Dimashq by ar-Ruba’í exist-
ed in the library of Núr A˙madiyya Madrassa attached to the al-Jazzár Mosque in
‘Akká—see ‘Abdu’lláh Mukhlis, “Majmú‘ Nádir” in La Revue de l’Academie Arabe,
vol. 10, no. 9-10 (Sept.–Oct. 1930), pp. 577-83. This would give a means for
Bahá’u’lláh to have had access to the work.
Of course the final piece of evidence that would be needed would be to locate a copy of ar-
Ruba’í’s Fa∂á’il ash-Shám wa Dimashq in order to confirm that the relevant Traditions are
indeed in that book. This proved difficult. The current published version of the book (4th ed.,
Beirut: al-Maktab al-Islamí, 1405) does not have these Traditions but turns out, on closer
examination, to be extracts from the Fa∂á’il ash-Shám wa Dimashq, an abbreviated version of
the book by Shaykh Mu˙ammad Násir ad-Dín al-Albání. I tried to obtain an older 1950 publi-
cation of the book which is mentioned in the introduction to the above edition, but was unable
to obtain a copy despite making enquiries from book-dealers in Lebanon and elsewhere.
Manuscripts of this work appeared to be equally difficult to locate. Various manuscripts that
exist are of other abbreviated versions of this work. Three manuscripts in Germany are of
Burhán ad-Dín Ibrahim ibn Taj ad-Dín ‘Abd ar-Ra˙mán al-Fazárí’s abridgement of this work
(Brockelmann, Geschichte, p. 331—copies in Berlin, no. 6074, Gotha, no. 54/21, Tubingen
Wetzst, no. 26/2; see also W. Ahlwardt, Verzeichniss der Arabisched Handschriften der
Konigliched Bibliohtek zu Berlin, Berlin: A. Asher & Co, 1893, vol. 15, p. 391, no. 6074). The
only definite manuscripts of the work that I was able to locate were described in the following
two publications:
‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf

1.
The manuscript in the Núr A˙madiyya Madrassa attached to the al-Jazzár Mosque in
‘Akká—see above
2.
A copy in the library of the Aya Sophia mosque in Istanbul, mss no. 3340/1—
described in Felix Tauer, “Geographisches aus den Stambuler Bibliotheken (Arabische
Handschriften)”, Archiv Orientalni, vol. 6 (1934), pp. 95-6.
Unfortunately, access to neither of these manuscripts was available immediately. It was at this
point that I needed to come to a decision about the source of these Traditions for publication
in my book, Islam and the Bahá’í Faith. I decided to identify the source of the Traditions as
Fa∂á’il ash-Shám wa Dimashq by ar-Ruba’í. Since the Haifa photocopies were very clearly writ-
ten and there was an elaborate title page, I identified this as pages from a “an old lithographed
edition of this work that does not show a date of publication and has no page numbers.” This
proved an unfortunate decision as even before the book was published, but too late to make
any alteration in the text, I discovered that my conclusions were erroneous. A closer reading of
some of the material that I had as well as some new material revealed several pieces of infor-
mation that contradicted my conclusions:
1.
I found that the photocopy document sent to Haifa by Mr. Derakhshani contained
two dates when the author had heard these Traditions. The writer states that he heard
these Traditions from Bahá ad-Dín Abu Mu˙ammad al-Qásim ibn Abu’l-Qásim ‘Alí
ibn al-Óasan ibn Hibatulláh ibn ‘Abdu’lláh ash-Shafi’í in Damascus in 581 and 585.
Since these dates were more than a century after the death of ar-Ruba’í in
444AH/1052AD, it would appear to rule out the latter as the author.
2.
I was informed by Necati Alkan that a copy of a printed version of ar-Ruba’í’s book
was in the SOAS library. I went there and found that this was the older 1951 edition
(ed. S. Munajjid, Matbú’át al-Jámi’ al-‘Ilmí al-‘Arabí bi Dimashq, Damascus) and
appeared to be the complete text and did not contain a section with these ‘Akká
Traditions in it. This book gave a third location for a manuscript of this work—the
Dár al-Kutub az-Záhiriyya in Damascus.
3.
A closer reading of the above article by Felix Tauer on the Istanbul manuscript
revealed that this manuscript was in a compilation manuscript with several other
works. Ar-Ruba’í’s Fa∂á’il ash-Sham wa Dimashq was the first item (fol. 1-83) and the
seventh work in the compilation was named as Fa∂á’il ‘Akká wa ‘Asqalán (fol. 215-
225). The opening and closing words of the volume as given by Tauer correspond
exactly with the Derakhshani photocopy. Tauer gives no indication of the author of
the piece about ‘Akká and Askelon and since the other items in the compilation are
by various authors or anonymous, there is no contextual evidence in the compilation
for authorship. The whole compilation was written out in Dhu’l Qa’da 921 AH by a
certain ‘Abd al-Rahmán aß-Íáli˙í ibn Mu˙ammad in the Ummayad Mosque [in
Damascus].
This seemed sufficient evidence to be now certain that the Fa∂á’il ‘Akká wa ‘Asqalán was a
separate work composed about 140 years after ar-Ruba’í’s Fa∂á’il ash-Sham wa Dimashq and
therefore certainly not by ar-Ruba’í himself. A further reading of the Derakhshani photocopies
revealed that they were most likely actual photographic copies of the Aya Sophia manuscript
described by Tauer. This for the following reasons:
1.
On the front page of the Derakhshani photocopies, there was some writing in the
top left hand corner. It looks somewhat like two capital “F”s followed by the Arabic
numeral 40. I now realised that this was probably the number 3340, which of course
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four

‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
is the number of the Aya Sophia manuscript described by Tauer.
2.
Tauer describes what is written on the title page of the manuscript and it accords
exactly with the Derakhshani photocopies.
3.
Tauer describes what is written at the end of the compilation—i.e. that it was writ-
ten in Dhu’l Qa’da 921 AH by a certain ‘Abd al-Rahmán aß-Íáli˙í ibn Mu˙ammad
in the Ummayad Mosque [in Damascus]—and this corresponds exactly to the last page
of the Derakhshani photocopies.
Thus we may be reasonably certain that the Derakhshani photocopies are copied from the Aya
Sophia mss. no. 3340.
It was obviously now necessary to try to ascertain the authorship of the Fa∂á’il ‘Akká wa
‘Asqalán. The opening words of the work state that these Traditions were heard from al-HáfiΩ
Bahá ad-Dín Abú Mu˙ammad al-Qásim ibn Abu’l-Qásim ‘Ali ibn al-Óasan ibn Hibatullah ibn
‘Abdullah ash-Shafi’í in 581 and 585 in Damascus and that he heard them from Abu al-Barakát
al-Khi∂r ibn Shibl al-faqíh.
Bahá ad-Dín Abú Mu˙ammad al-Qásim ibn Abu’l-Qásim ‘Alí ibn al-Óasan ibn Hibatullah
ibn ‘Abdullah ash-Shafi’í can be identified as the son of the much more famous Ibn ‘Asákir, who
is described as the leading compiler of Traditions of his age (“imám ahl al-˙adith fi zamanihi”,
‘Abd al-Qádir an-Na’ímí, ad-Dárus fí Taríkh al-Madaris, Matbú’át al-Jámi’ al-‘Ilmí al-‘Arabí bi
Dimashq, vol. 1, 1367/1948, p. 100). He was the author of the very well known, Tarikh Dimashq
(History of Damascus), the first part of which contains a compilation of prophetic Traditions
relating to Syria in general and Damascus in particular (much of which comes from ar-Ruba’í’s
Fa∂á’il ash-Sham wa Dimashq as noted above). Bahá ad-Dín al-Qásim ibn ‘Asákir himself was
born in 527. He was a prominent scholar of his generation and known as being reliable as a
compiler of Traditions. He succeeded his father as the head of the college, Dár al-Óadíth an-
Núriyya on the latter’s death in 571. He gave lectures on his father’s History of Damascus and
himself compiled a book of Traditions relating to Jerusalem and the Masjid al-Aqßá called al-
Muqtáá fi Fadá’il al-Masjid al-Aqßá. He died in 600 AH. (Biographical information from ‘Abd
al-Qádir an-Na‘ímí, ad-Dárus fí Taríkh al-Madaris, Matbú‘át al-Jámi’ al-‘Ilmí al-‘Arabí bi
Dimashq, vol. 1, 1367/1948, p. 100-3.)
It would appear that the compiler of the Fa∂á’il ‘Akká wa ‘Asqalán was a student of Bahá
ad-Dín al-Qásim ibn ‘Asákir who heard these particular Traditions from him during the years
581 and 585 in Damascus. Interestingly, we know that Bahá ad-Dín al-Qásim visited ‘Akká and
taught some classes there in 586. This is because there is a record of one of his students Badhal
ibn Abi al-Mu’ammar at-Tabrízí taking notes of his teaching his father’s book in ‘Akká that year
(Taríkh Madína Dimashq, ed. Íala˙ ad-Dín al-Munjid, Matbú’át al-Jámi’ al-‘Ilmí al-‘Arabí bi
Dimashq, Damascus, 1371/1951, vol. 1, p. 629).
The period of time in which Fa∂á’il ‘Akká wa ‘Asqalán was written was a time in which there
was a great deal of activity in the compiling of traditions about particular cities and regions.
These compilations of prophetic Traditions were often compiled under the name “Fa∂á’il . . .”,
which can be translated as “The Excellences of . . . .” These volumes would consist of Traditions
of the prophet Muhammad regarding that city and sometimes also material relating to shrines
and sacred sites there, companions of the Prophet who are buried there and famous ‘ulamá who
have lived there. Bahá ad-Dín al-Qásim ibn ‘Asákir himself, as we have noted, compiled such a
work on Jerusalem—al-Muqta∂á fi Fadá’il al-Masjid al-Aqßá. His father included such materi-
al in the first part of his History of Damascus. Several of Bahá ad-Dín al-Qásim ibn ‘Asákir’s
students also compiled such works and any of these could also have been the compiler of

Fa∂á’il ‘Akká wa ‘Asqalán (these students are based on the list given in an-Na’ímí, ad-Dárus
fí Taríkh al-Madaris, vol. 1, p. 103):
Îiyá ad-Dín Mu˙ammad ibn ‘Abdu’l-Wá˙id al-Maqdisí (d. 643) wrote Fa∂á’il ash-Shám on
Damascus (Khayr ad-Dín Ziriklí, al-A‘lám, 2nd ed., Cairo, 1954-9, 10 vols, vol. 7, p. 134;
Brockelmann, Supplement, vol. 1, p.690)
Abu al-Muwahhib al-Óasan ibn Hibatulláh Íaßrí ar-Ruba‘í wrote Fa∂á’il Bayt al-Muqaddas
about Jerusalem (Ziriklí, al-A‘lám, vol. 2, p. 304)
‘Abd al-Qádir ibn ‘Abdulláh ar-Ruháwí (d. 612) wrote a compilation of forty traditions
(Ziriklí, al-A‘lám, vol. 4, p. 165)
Among others who are known to have been students of Bahá ad-Dín al-Qásim ibn ‘Asákir
and therefore possible compilers of Fa∂á’il ‘Akká wa ‘Asqalán are:
Zayn al-‘Umaná Abu al-Barakát al-Hasan ibn Muhammad ibn ‘Asákir (d. 627), a cousin of
Bahá ad-Dín al-Qásim and his successor as head of the Dár al-Óadíth an-Núriyya (an-Na’ímí,
ad-Dárus fí Taríkh al-Madaris, vol. 1, pp. 104-5).
Táj ad-Dín ‘Abd al-Wahháb ibn Zayn al-Umaná (d. 660), son of the previous scholar and his
successor as head of the Dár al-Óadíth an-Núriyya. (an-Na’ímí, ad-Dárus fí Taríkh al-Madaris,
vol. 1, pp. 106-6. His brother ‘Abdu’llah NiΩám ad-Dín, who probably also studied under Bahá
ad-Dín al-Qásim wrote Fa∂á’il al-Quds on Jerusalem, Brockelmann Supplement vol. 1, p. 568)
Yusuf ibn Khalíl ibn Qarájá (d. 648, Ziriklí, al-A‘lám, vol. 7, p. 253-4)
Indeed a listing of more than fifty names of students of Bahá ad-Dín al-Qásim could be
compiled from the lists of those attending his lectures (see lists in Ibn ‘Asákir Taríkh Madína
Dimashq, see for example vol. 1, pp. 627-717)
In considering the identity of this work, Fa∂á’il ‘Akká wa ‘Asqalán, as a source for the
Traditions quoted by Bahá’u’lláh, it is useful to compare the text and the order of these tradi-
tions as given in the manuscript of Fa∂á’il ‘Akká wa ‘Asqalán and by Bahá’u’lláh in Epistle to
the Son of the Wolf. The following is a comparison between the Traditions given in Epistle to
the Son of the Wolf (illuminated ed. Hofheim-Langenhain, 1982) and the Traditions given in
the Ayá Sophia manuscript:
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four

‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Fa∂a’il ‘Akká wa ‘Asqalán
Present, p. 3-5
Present, p. 5-6
Not present
Present, pp. 6-7, but without
“Ibn-i-Mas’ud—may God be
pleased with him—hath stated”
and with the following
changes: begins: “The
Messenger of God . . .” and
ends: “ . . . and ‘Akká is,
verily, better than it, and the
merit of ‘Akká above that of
other shores is as my merit
above that of the Prophets.”
Present, pp. 7-8 with long
isnád ending: “Anas, son of
Malik—may God be pleased
with him—hath said: ‘The
Apostle of God—may the
blessings of God and His
salutations be upon Him—
hath said: “a city betwixt two
mountains, upon the sea,
which is called . . .”
raghbatan
and omits wa fi ziyáratihá
(and eager to visit it).
raghbatan ‘an-há.
Has lam yubárak lahu
Wa bihá ‘aynun tusammí
ends: will fill his heart
(ba†nahu) with light and he
who pours forth its waters
upon himself, will remain
pure until the Day of
Resurrection.
Epistle to the Son of
the Wolf
Not present
Not present
Present, p. 115
Present, p. 115
Present, p. 115
rághiban
(Longing for it)
ghayr zá’ir
lam yabárak Allah
lahu
Inna fíhá ‘aynan
yuqál lahu
qalbahu
Translation of the Tradition
A lengthy tradition with a lengthy chain
of transmission beginning: “They will meet
in the depth ( ‘amq) of ‘Akká, and they
fight one another and they will be in fear
of one another . . .”
A lengthy tradition with a lengthy chain
of transmission beginning: “God will have
a banquet of the flesh of the Byzantines
on the plains of ‘Akká . . .”
1. ‘Abdu’l-‘Aziz, son of Abdu’-Salam,
hath related unto us that the Prophet—may
the blessings of God and His salutations be
upon him—hath said: “‘Akká is a city in
Syria to which God hath shown His special
mercy.”
2a. Ibn-i-Mas’ud—may God be pleased
with him—hath stated: “The Prophet—may
the blessings of God and His salutations be
upon Him—hath said: ‘Of all shores the
best is the shore of Askelon, and ‘Akká is,
verily, better than Askelon, and the merit
of ‘Akká above that of Askelon and all
other shores is as the merit of Mu˙ammad
above that of all other Prophets.
2b. I bring you tidings of a city betwixt
two mountains in Syria, in the middle of a
meadow, which is called ‘Akká. Verily, he
that entereth therein, longing for it and
eager to visit it, God will forgive his sins,
both of the past and of the future. And he
that departeth from it, other than as a
pilgrim, God will not bless his departure.
In it is a spring called the Spring of the
Cow. Whoso drinketh a draught therefrom,
God will fill his heart with light, and will
protect him from the most great terror on
the Day of Resurrection.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
Omits isnád but has this at
beginning of previous
Tradition.
Omits “By the shore of the
sea”
tahta ‘arsh alláh ‘azza wa jalla
mu˙tasaban
ajr
al-qá’imín ar-rukka‘ as-sujúd
Present, p. 9-10. Begins: “The
Messenger of God . . . . hath
said: ‘A city, on the . . . .’”
hasanan ‘ind Alláh
qaraßat al-barquth fíhá
is equivalent to a spear wound
(†a’na as-sinán) in the path of
God Almighty. He who
glorifies God (kabbara) there,
God will grant him to reinforce
his voice. And he who takes up
a sword, aiming it at the
vainglory of the enemy, God
Almighty will gather him up
with my brother my brother
Khi∂r—peace be upon him—and
God will protect him from the
most great terror
Present, p. 10
Present, p. 11-12. ‘Umar ibn al-
Kha††áb addressed Ka’b al-
A˙bar, saying to him: I bring
you good news, O Abú Is˙áq!
When you enter Syria and meet
the people of ‘Akká, help them
for they are the ones who will
be looked to on the Day of
Resurrection. O Abú Is˙áq! I
heard the Messenger of Allah
(may the peace and blessings of
Allah be upon him) say that
there will be kings and princes
at the Last Days, and the poor
of ‘Akká and Askalon will be
the kings and princes of the
Last Days.
tahta sáq al-‘Arsh
i˙tasában
thawab
al-qá’imín wa’l-
ráki‘ín wa’l-sájidín
Present, p. 116
hasan bay∂ihá ‘ind
Alláh
wa inna man
qaraßahu barqúthun
min baráqíthihi
adhdhana
Not present
Present, p. 116, but
much abbreviated
3. Anas, son of Malik—may God be
pleased with him—hath said: “The Apostle
of God—may the blessings of God and His
salutations be upon Him—hath said: ‘By
the shore of the sea is a city, suspended
beneath the Throne, and named ‘Akká. He
that dwelleth therein, firm and expecting
a reward from God—exalted be He—God
will write down for him, until the Day of
Resurrection, the recompense of such as
have been patient, and have stood up, and
knelt down, and prostrated themselves,
before Him.’”
4. And He—may the blessings of God
and His salutations be upon Him—hath
said: “I announce unto you a city, on the
shores of the sea, white, whose whiteness
is pleasing unto God—exalted be He! It is
called ‘Akká. He that hath been bitten by
one of its fleas is better, in the estimation
of God, than he who hath received a
grievous blow in the path of God. And he
that raiseth therein the call to prayer, his
voice will be lifted up unto Paradise. And
he that remaineth therein for seven days in
the face of the enemy, God will gather him
with Khi∂r—peace be upon Him—and God
will protect him from the most great
terror on the Day of Resurrection.”
God will build a house of light for the
one who has seen the site of the martyrs
of ‘Akká. And it was said: where is the
site. He said: Between two mountains in
the midst of a plain—that is to say
between Mount Carmel and Mount Jubayl
5. And He—may the blessings of God,—
exalted be He—and His salutations be
upon Him—hath said: “There are kings and
princes in Paradise. The poor of ‘Akká are
the kings of Paradise and the princes
thereof. A month in ‘Akká is better than a
thousand years elsewhere.”

‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Present, pp. 12-13, with a long
isnád
Present, p.13, with a long
isnád
Present but much later in the
order, pp. 21-22. Verb used
throughout is ray’ (see) rather
than zár (visit)
separate Tradition:
I heard the Messenger of God
saying that he who drinks
from the Spring of the Cow
and he who washes (in water)
from it and from the Spring
of Salwán which is in
Jerusalem and from the Spring
of Zamzam which is in Mecca,
God will protect his body
from (Hell-)fire.
A separate statement within a
lengthy Tradition preceding
this on p. 21 states: “black-
eyed damsels quaff the
camphor of Paradise, which is
in a spring named the Spring
of the Cow which is in ‘Akká”
First part not present
Present, p. 13
Has only “Glorified be God,
and praise be unto God”, not
“and most great is God, and
there is no power nor strength
except in God, the Exalted,
the Mighty”. In each case has
alf alf—thousand thousand—
i.e. a million.
Has: “. . . will uplift him a
thousand thousand grades. He
who magnifies (God), God
will magnify him, and he who
seek forgiveness, God will
forgive him.
Not present
Not present
Present, p. 116
same Tradition
Present, p. 116
Present
‘Uthmán ibn ‘Afán (may God be pleased
with him) said: To keep watch for one night
in ‘Akká is better than one thousand nights
of waking and days of fasting (elsewhere).
‘Á’ishah, the mother of the believers
(may God be pleased with her) said that the
Messenger of God had said: He who keeps
watch for three nights in ‘Akká has the
reward of keeping watch for one year
6a. The Apostle of God—may the
blessings of God and His salutations be
upon Him—is reported to have said:
“Blessed the man that hath visited ‘Akká,
and blessed he that hath visited the visitor
of ‘Akká.
6b. Blessed the one that hath drunk from
the Spring of the Cow and washed in its
waters, for the black-eyed damsels quaff the
camphor in Paradise, which hath come from
the Spring of the Cow, and from the Spring
of Salvan (Siloam), and the Well of
Zamzam. Well is it with him that hath
drunk from these springs, and washed in
their waters, for God hath forbidden the
fire of hell to touch him and his body on
the Day of Resurrection.”
7a. The Prophet—may the blessings of
God and His salutations be upon Him—is
stated to have said: “In ‘Akká are works of
supererogation and acts which are
beneficial, which God vouchsafed specially
unto whomsoever He pleaseth.
7b. And he that saith in ‘Akká: ‘Glorified
be God, and praise be unto God, and there
is none other God but God, and most great
is God, and there is no power nor strength
except in God, the Exalted, the Mighty,’
God will write down for him a thousand
good deeds, and blot out from him a
thousand evil deeds, and will uplift him a
thousand grades in Paradise, and will
forgive him his transgressions. And whoso
saith in ‘Akká: ‘I beg forgiveness of God,’
God will forgive all his trespasses.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
Not present
Present, pp. 14-5,
hína tagharabat (?) ash-shams
fatakabbara ‘inda ghurúbihá
akthar min ar-raml
separate Tradition
adds: fí’l-bahr
dhunúbihi má taqadama min
min há wa má ta ‘Akhira
Adds at the end: wa inna al-
amwáj lata˙ta adh-dhunúb
˙attan
Present, p. 15-16
man †ala’a fi’l-bahr laylatan
támatan kána af∂al min ‘ibáda
shahrayn
Not present
Present, p. 16-23
Present
Present, pp. 116-7
‘inda az-zawál
mithl raml
same Tradition
adds: Allah after
yukabbara
má taqadama min
dhunúbihi wa má
ta’Akhira
Present, p. 117
man naΩara fí’l-bahr
laylatan kámilatan
kána af∂al min
shahrayn kámilatayn
Present
Not present (except
as noted)
7c. And he that remembereth God in
‘Akká at morn and at eventide, in the night-
season and at dawn, is better in the sight of
God than he who beareth swords, spears
and arms in the path of God—exalted be
He!”
8a. The Apostle of God—may the
blessings of God and His salutations be
upon Him—hath also said: “He that looketh
upon the sea at eventide, and saith: ‘God is
Most Great!’ at sunset, God will forgive his
sins, though they be heaped as piles of sand.
8b. And he that counteth forty waves,
while repeating: ‘God is Most Great!’—
exalted be He—God will forgive his sins,
both past and future.”
9a. The Apostle of God—may the
blessings of God and His salutations be
upon Him—hath said: “He that looketh
upon the sea a full night is better than he
who passeth two whole months betwixt the
Rukn and the Maqam.
9b. And he that hath been brought up on
the shores of the sea is better than he that
hath been brought up elsewhere. And he
that lieth on the shore is as he that standeth
elsewhere.”
Traditions:
- stating that keeping watch by the shore
is better that a month of fasting.
- stating that saying “God is most great”
once or twice while looking to the sea is
better than a spear wound received in the
path of God
- he who says “God is most great” while
looking to the sea is better than one who
travels from east to west upon horseback in
the path of God
- no rising by night or fasting by day is
equivalent to the guard who says “God is
most great” once or twice while looking to
the sea
- long Tradition which begins by
recounting the station of ‘Á’ishah and goes
say that when ‘Á’ishah learned that a man was
from ‘Akká, she raised her veil and said:
“Praise be to God that I have seen one of the
people of Paradise.” She then asks whether he
has drunk from the Spring of the Cow and
there then occurs the statement and the
Traditions relating to the Spring of the Cow
noted above (in a different order in Epistle
to the Son of the Wolf). She then says that
the Messenger of God said that walking upon
the paths of ‘Akká is better than saying
prayers in any other mosque and that
keeping watch in ‘Akká is as if one received a
spear wound in the path of God.

‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
The above comparison seems to me to indicate that Bahá’u’lláh was indeed quoting from this
work but from another manuscript that had differences due to transcription variations. Not
only the close resemblance of the text of the Traditions indicates this but also, perhaps more
significantly, the fact that the Traditions are in almost exactly the same order in both texts.
It is surprising that Bahá’u’lláh does not cite the much more well-known Tradition “Well is it
with him who hath seen ‘Akká” which is recorded in many books including the celebrated geog-
raphy of Yáqút ibn ‘Abdulláh in his entry on ‘Akká (Mu‘jam al-Buldán, Ma†ba’a as-Sa’áda,
Cairo, 1324/1906, vol. 6, p. 206) and in many dictionaries such as the Mukhtár aß-Íi˙á˙ of
Muhammad ibn Abú Bakr ar-Rází in the entry under “ayn káf káf” (ed. Ma˙múd Khá†ir,
Cairo: al-Hay’Ah al-Misriyyah al-‘Ámmah li’l-Kitáb, 1976, p. 449) and the Lisán al-‘Arab of Ibn
Manzúr, also under “ayn káf káf” (Beirut: Dár Íádir, 1956, vol. 10, p. 470).
In conclusion then, the ‘Akká traditions quoted by Bahá’u’lláh at the end of Epistle to the
Son of the Wolf probably came from a work named Fa∂á’il ‘Akká wa ‘Asqalán. This work was
compiled in the late 6th century C.E. based on Traditions transmitted by Bahá ad-Dín Abú
Mu˙ammad al-Qásim, the son of the famous historian Ibn ‘Asákir, in lectures that he gave in
Damascus in 581 and 585 C.E. The compiler was one of the students of Bahá ad-Dín al-Qásim.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four

“Thee” and “thee” in the translation of Suriy-i-Haykal
Khazeh Fananapazir
Question
Are the antecedents of the different thee/Thee, in the English translation of Suriy-i-Haykal,
different? This may seem a minor question, but if it is intentional, which I would guess it is,
there must be a more profound reason for it.
Explanation
1. The translation of the Universal House of Justice is most faithful and that one should
not interpret the thee and Thee as theological as essentially all refer to the One. BUT
the small thee is used for example about the lisán [tongue of this Temple]:
O Tongue of this Temple! We, verily, have created thee through Our name, the
All-Merciful, have taught thee whatsoever had remained concealed in the Bayán, and
have bestowed upon thee the power of utterance, that thou mayest make mention of
Mine exalted Self amidst My creatures. Proclaim, then, this wondrous and mighty
Remembrance, and fear not the manifestations of the Evil One. Thou wert called into
being for this very purpose by virtue of My transcendent and all-compelling com-
mand. Through thee have We unloosed the Tongue of Utterance to expound . . .
2. The small thee is also used for a letter of the Haykal. For example: the third letter [káf]
or the fourth letter [lám]:
O Third Letter of this Temple, betokening My name, the All-Bountiful! We have
made thee the dawning-place of Our bounty amidst Our creatures . . .
and again
O Fourth Letter of this Temple, betokening the attribute of Grace! We have
made thee the manifestation of grace betwixt earth and heaven. From thee have We
generated all grace in the contingent world, and unto thee shall We cause it to return.
And from thee shall We manifest it again, through a word of Our command. Potent
am I to accomplish whatsoever I desire through My word “Be”, and it is!
3. When the WHOLE TEMPLE is intended capital T is used, “Thee”:
O Temple of Holiness! We, verily, have cleansed Thy breast from the whisper-
ings of the people and sanctified it from earthly allusions, that the light of My beau-
ty may appear therein and be reflected in the mirrors of all the worlds. Thus have We
singled Thee out above all that hath been created in the heavens and the earth, and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
above all that hath been decreed in the realms of revelation and creation, and chosen
Thee . . .
4. Therefore, a small ‘t’ as in ‘thee’ is used for the parts (ajzá) of Haykal and a capital ‘T’
as in ‘Thee’ for the Whole of Haykal:
O Living Temple! We have made Thee the Dayspring of each one of Our most
excellent titles, the Dawning-Place of each one of Our most august attributes, and
the Fountainhead of each one of Our manifold virtues unto the denizens of earth and
heaven. Thereafter have We raised Thee up in Our own image betwixt the heavens
and the earth, and ordained Thee to be the sign of Our glory unto all who are in the
realms of revelation and creation, that My servants may follow in Thy footsteps, and
be of them who are guided aright. We have appointed Thee the Tree of grace and
bounty unto the dwellers of both the heavens and the earth. Well is it with them who
seek the shelter of Thy shade and who draw nigh unto Thy Self, the omnipotent
Protector of the worlds.

Appendix I
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books One-Three
Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000
Pilgrimage and Religious Identity in the Bahá’í Faith
Per-Olof Åkerdahl
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Effendi
Cyrus Alai
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Farid ud-Din Attar
Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith: From Material
Civilization to Spiritual Civilization
Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation
Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith
Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án and in the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory: A Summary of Glorious Revelation
William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind
Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology
Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Hikmat of Bahá’u’lláh
Peter Terry
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh: Tablets and Talks
Translated into English (1911–1920)
Peter Terry
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb
Muhammad Afnan
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity
William Barnes
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The Temple)
Mohamad Ghasem Bayat
The Firm Cord of Servitude
Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective
Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God
Y.A. Ioannesyan

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith
LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az ghayb-i-baqá’
burqa‘ bar afkan az ‘idhár”: An Introduction and Three Versions of
Provisional English Translations
Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i-Itti˙ád)—A Provisional Translation
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on the Quránic Verses Concerning the Overthrow
of the Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul
Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”: Mystical Language, Revelation and
Scholarship
Ismael Velasco
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
Brian A. Wittman
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Three, © 2002
A Journey through the Seven Valleys
Ghasem Bayat
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology
Vahid Brown
Knowledge, Certitude and the Mystical Heart: The Hidden Essence of God’s
Word
LeRoy Jones
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God
Todd Lawson
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy
Zaid Lundberg
The Wronged One: Shí‘í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of
Visitation for Mullá Óusayn
William McCants
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order
Kavian Milani
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community
Moojan Momen
The Law˙-i-Mánikjí Íá˙ib: introduction and provisional translation
Ramin Neshati
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method
Robert Sarracino
Theological Responses to Modernity in the Nineteenth-century Middle East
Oliver Scharbrodt
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith:
Classification of Concepts and Practices
Enoch Tanyi
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
James Thomas
The Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ling Ming Tang and Nineteenth-century
China
Jianping Wang

Appendices
Appendix II
English-Language Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquium
Scripture and Revelation, M. Momen (ed.),  Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 1997:
George Ronald, Publisher
46 High Street
Kidlington
Oxford OX5 2DN, U.K.
Tel: 44-865-841515
Fax: 44-865-841230
The Lights of  ‘Irfán: Compilation of Papers Presented at the Irfan Colloquia, I.
Ayman (general  ed.), Book One, 2000; Book Two, 2001; Book Three, 2002; Book
Four, 2003:
Baha’i Distribution Service (BDS)
IMAGES INTERNATIONAL
4703 Fulton Industrial Blvd.
5010 Austin Road
Atlanta, Georgia 30336-2017
Hixson, TN 37343
U.S.A.
U.S.A.
Tel: 404-472-9019
Tel: 1-800-470-4525
Fax: 404-472-0119
Fax: 1-423-870-4774
E-Mail: BDS@usbnc.org
E-Mail: images@chattanooga.net
Booklets of abstracts of the papers presented at various sessions of the ‘Irfán
Colloquia and  ‘Irfán Publications in Persian:
Irfan Colloquium
Bahá’i National Center
1234 Central Street
Evanston, IL 60201-1611
Tel: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3527
E-Mail: iayman@usbnc.org

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four

Appendix I
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books One-Three
Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000
Pilgrimage and Religious Identity in the Bahá’í Faith
Per-Olof Åkerdahl
Kitáb-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Effendi
Cyrus Alai
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Farid ud-Din Attar
Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith: From Material
Civilization to Spiritual Civilization
Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive Revelation
Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith
Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án and in the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory: A Summary of Glorious Revelation
William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind
Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology
Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Hikmat of Bahá’u’lláh
Peter Terry
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh: Tablets and Talks
Translated into English (1911–1920)
Peter Terry
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb
Muhammad Afnan
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity
William Barnes
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The Temple)
Mohamad Ghasem Bayat
The Firm Cord of Servitude
Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective
Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God
Y.A. Ioannesyan

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith
LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az ghayb-i-baqá’
burqa‘ bar afkan az ‘idhár”: An Introduction and Three Versions of
Provisional English Translations
Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i-Itti˙ád)—A Provisional Translation
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on the Quránic Verses Concerning the Overthrow
of the Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul
Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”: Mystical Language, Revelation and
Scholarship
Ismael Velasco
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh
Brian A. Wittman
Lights of ‘Irfán Book Three, © 2002
A Journey through the Seven Valleys
Ghasem Bayat
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology
Vahid Brown
Knowledge, Certitude and the Mystical Heart: The Hidden Essence of God’s
Word
LeRoy Jones
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God
Todd Lawson
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy
Zaid Lundberg
The Wronged One: Shí‘í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of
Visitation for Mullá Óusayn
William McCants
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order
Kavian Milani
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community
Moojan Momen
The Law˙-i-Mánikjí Íá˙ib: introduction and provisional translation
Ramin Neshati
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method
Robert Sarracino
Theological Responses to Modernity in the Nineteenth-century Middle East
Oliver Scharbrodt
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith:
Classification of Concepts and Practices
Enoch Tanyi
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
James Thomas
The Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ling Ming Tang and Nineteenth-century
China
Jianping Wang

Appendices
Appendix II
English-Language Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquium
Scripture and Revelation, M. Momen (ed.),  Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 1997:
George Ronald, Publisher
46 High Street
Kidlington
Oxford OX5 2DN, U.K.
Tel: 44-865-841515
Fax: 44-865-841230
The Lights of  ‘Irfán: Compilation of Papers Presented at the Irfan Colloquia, I.
Ayman (general  ed.), Book One, 2000; Book Two, 2001; Book Three, 2002; Book
Four, 2003:
Baha’i Distribution Service (BDS)
IMAGES INTERNATIONAL
4703 Fulton Industrial Blvd.
5010 Austin Road
Atlanta, Georgia 30336-2017
Hixson, TN 37343
U.S.A.
U.S.A.
Tel: 404-472-9019
Tel: 1-800-470-4525
Fax: 404-472-0119
Fax: 1-423-870-4774
E-Mail: BDS@usbnc.org
E-Mail: images@chattanooga.net
Booklets of abstracts of the papers presented at various sessions of the ‘Irfán
Colloquia and  ‘Irfán Publications in Persian:
Irfan Colloquium
Bahá’i National Center
1234 Central Street
Evanston, IL 60201-1611
Tel: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3527
E-Mail: iayman@usbnc.org

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four