THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1998-07-22

further to the circular letter of 22 july 1998 from the universal house of

justice, informing National Spiritual Assemblies of the execution in mash-

had, iran, of mr. rú¥u’lláh raw¥ání, we provide below information about

him which has just been received from his close relatives in Australia. . . .

mr. raw¥ání was a person of a deeply gentle and innocent character.

indeed his family nicknamed him “rú¥u’lláh the innocent.” he was the

father of four children, sons aged 24 and 17, and daughters aged 22 and 9. his family, unable to obtain any information about his circumstances or

state of health, have undergone intense suffering during his imprisonment.

mr. raw¥ání was not a wealthy man. he made his living as a salesman

of medical supplies and health products, an occupation he engaged in for about twenty years. Approximately twelve years ago he was sentenced to

a period of two years’ imprisonment, because of his membership in the

bahá’í faith, and to an additional one year’s internal exile in the village of

Najafábád, which he was not permitted to leave and where he had to report daily to the police.

After this period he returned to mashhad to continue his profession.

About four years ago, his brother-in-law from Australia, who was visiting his ill father in iran, saw mr. raw¥ání. he said that the psychological suffer-

ing that mr. raw¥ání had undergone in his earlier imprisonment was clearly

evident in his face. his children were also affected by the suffering imposed

on their father. just prior to his arrest in September 1997, the family had

decided to move to i¦fahán, as mr. raw¥ání had found it increasingly dif-

ficult to make a satisfactory living in mashhad. on the day of the family’s

intended departure, revolutionary guards came to their home and arrested 277 .1

277 .2

277 .3

277 .4

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

6him. from that time, the family had seen mr. raw¥ání only once—about

a month after he was arrested—after which the authorities refused to give

them any information about his situation, or even to tell them whether he

was alive or dead.

This changed on monday last, when the family were informed that they

could see him for one hour. it is understood that this meeting was the first

time that mr. raw¥ání had breathed fresh air in three months. The next

day the family were called to the prison to collect his body. They were given only one hour to bury their loved one, despite their appeal for more time to enable other relatives to attend the funeral. from the marks of a rope on his

neck, it appeared that mr. raw¥ání had been executed by hanging.

Department  of tHe secretariat

278

Imprisonment of Four Bahá’ís in Iran

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]