THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1996-04-22

To an individual believer

your email message . . . has been received at the bahá’í world center,

question regarding teaching the f aith. . . .

in his writings, bahá’u’lláh states clearly the essential requisites for our

spiritual growth, and these are reiterated and amplified by ‘Abdu’l-b ahá in

his talks and Tablets. They can be summarized briefly as prayer and medi-

tation, the endeavor to conform one’s behavior to the exalted standard set

224-3. lgANz, p. 138.

224-4. mbw , p. 111.224.13

225.1

225.2

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

51forth in the bahá’í Teachings, participation in the life of the bahá’í com-

munity, teaching the faith and contributing to the bahá’í fund. different

individuals, according to their natures, will follow these paths in varying

ways, but all are essential to spiritual growth. The house of justice points

out that there can be no rigid formula on how to attain the right balance in our approach to spirituality, and that the best course here, as in so many

things, is to follow the example of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá.

regarding, in particular, teaching the cause of god, from a letter writ-

ten on behalf of the beloved guardian, we are reminded that it is a sacred

obligation enjoined upon every believer.

bahá’u’lláh has enjoined upon the bahá’ís the sacred obligation of teach-

ing. we have no priests, therefore the service once rendered by priests to

their religions is the service every single bahá’í is expected to render in-

dividually to his religion. he must be the one who enlightens new souls,

confirms them, heals the wounded and the weary upon the road of life, and

gives them to quaff from the chalice of everlasting life—the knowledge of the m anifestation of g od in h is day.

further, bahá’u’lláh exhorts us to “Teach thou the cause of god with an

utterance which will cause the bushes to be enkindled, and the call ‘ verily,

there is no god but me, the Almighty, the unconstrained’ to be raised

therefrom.”

while living the bahá’í life, good works and service to our fellow men are

important aspects in exemplifying and promoting the faith, ‘Abdu’l-b ahá

emphasizes that these alone are not sufficient. h e states:

it is at such times that the friends of god avail themselves of the

occasion, seize the opportunity, rush forth and win the prize. if their

task is to be confined to good conduct and advice, nothing will be

accomplished. They must speak out, expound the proofs, set forth

clear arguments, draw irrefutable conclusions establishing the truth of the manifestation of the Sun of r eality.

225-1

The relevant guidance provided in messages and letters from the house

of justice can best be understood in light of the knowledge that teach-

ing the faith is each individual’s sacred duty, prescribed by god, and is

225-1. Sw Ab, no. 212.225.3

225.4

225.5

225.6

225.6a

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

52fundamental for the advancement of the cause and our own spiritual prog-

ress. in its 1995 ri¤ván message, the house of justice wrote, “f or to teach,

bahá’u’lláh himself affirms, is to do the ‘most meritorious of all deeds.’”

in another ri¤ván message, teaching is described as “the food of the spirit

. . . it ensures the victory of the covenant and brings those who give their

lives to it the supernal happiness of attainment to the good pleasure of their

lord.”225-2 The emphasis on teaching which you perceive in these messages

in no way diminishes the importance of the other requisites for spiritual growth, but rather should inspire the believers to submerge themselves yet

deeper in prayer, meditation and study of the word of god, and to strive

more vigilantly to live the bahá’í life and to be of service to their fellow man,

as essential requirements to fulfilling their obligation to teach the f aith.

regarding the distinctive roles of the institutions of the faith and the

individual believers in the spread of the cause of bahá’u’lláh, in the trans-

formation of the individual and collective lives of peoples and the eventual establishment of the kingdom of god on earth, they are described by the

house of j ustice as follows:

Though the institutions of the faith are responsible for planning the

goals and activities of the cause, for stimulating and encouraging

the believers to arise, and for supporting and unifying them in their services, it is, in the final analysis, through the spiritual decisions and actions of the individual believers that the faith moves forward on its

course to ultimate victory.

225-3

you ask what you should do if you feel the institutions are not functioning

according to the Sacred writings. you will find it helpful in this respect

to deepen your understanding of the writings of bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-

bahá on the subject of the covenant, possibly by arranging to study with a

believer who is clearly knowledgeable in the faith. To question the actions

or directions of a bahá’í institution certainly does not in itself constitute a

violation of the covenant. one of the distinguishing features of the bahá’í

225-2. See no. 48, pp. 81–85.

225-3. muhj, no. 453.8.225.7

225.7a

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

5faith is the extent to which it liberates the individual to give expression to

his understanding of the bahá’í Teachings and to offer to the institutions

of the faith his views about the needs and opportunities which he perceives

to exist. however, this remarkable freedom of thought is accompanied by

the duty placed upon every believer to obey the Spiritual Assemblies, and to

recognize that the wisdom of consultation by an Assembly may be regarded

as yielding a greater understanding of an issue than that to which one indi-

vidual has access.

you are assured of the loving prayers of the house of justice in the holy

Shrines on your behalf, that you may achieve your desire for a deeper under-

standing of the verities of the faith of bahá’u’lláh, and that your endeavors

in the path of service to h is cause may be divinely guided and confirmed.

Department  of tHe secretariat

226

Message to the Youth Forum, Ontario, Canada

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]