THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1999-08-24

dear b ahá’í f riends,

reply to your inquiry of 14 j uly 1999 concerning the funding of training

institutes.

your letter has offered the house of justice a welcome opportunity to

clarify certain points regarding deputization, and for this it is grateful. it has

also noted with warm appreciation the generosity of your offer not only to

raise funds in support of training institutes in different parts of the world but also to strive to meet any financial goal it may wish to specify towards this end. while the friends would no doubt respond well to such a goal, a

fundraising approach would not be in keeping with the sense of the appeal made in the ri¤ván 153 message to the bahá’ís of the world for the deputi-

zation of teachers by individuals. As that message stated:

“center your energies in the propagation of the faith of god,” bahá’u’lláh

thus instructs his servants, adding, “ whoso is worthy of so high a calling,

let him arise and promote it. whoso is unable, it is his duty to appoint him

who will, in his stead, proclaim this revelation. . . .”

310-1 just as one deputizes

another to teach in one’s stead by covering the expenses of a pioneer or

traveling teacher, one can deputize a teacher serving an institute, who is,

of course, a teacher of teachers. To do so, one may make contributions to

310-1. gwb, no. 96.3.310.1

310.2

310.3

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

690the continental bahá’í fund, as well as to the local, National and interna-

tional f unds, earmarked for this purpose.

The individual’s duty to teach is the primary point here. deputizing

one’s own appointed substitute is also highly recommended for one who

can afford to do so. The individual can always exercise the right to choose directly the one he or she wishes to deputize; but often the person wanting

to provide deputization is unable to identify or select a deputy. for anyone

finding himself or herself in this latter position, the international deputiza-

tinued to exist. The new element introduced by the ri¤ván 153 message is

the teacher at a training institute, whose financial support by another would

fulfill the purpose of deputization. The range of choice for the individual wishing to deputize someone has thus been expanded. To realize one’s pur-

pose in this regard, one may channel one’s financial support of a training

institute teacher through whatever institution of the fund is convenient to

one. The emphasis on the continental fund in this case is significant for

the convenience it provides, since it is through the boards of counselors

that training institutes needing such support can most readily be identified, and it is through the continental fund that the most direct routing of a

contribution to its specific destination can be effected. Thus the earmarked contributions channeled through the local or National fund would ulti-

mately be turned over to the relevant continental fund for delivery to its

intended destination outside your community.

it is clear, then, that this new element in deputization is not a question of

supporting any bahá’í fund and cannot strictly speaking be dealt with as a

fund issue, even though an institution of the fund must act, in this case, as

a channel for the individual’s intention. it is essentially a matter of teaching,

and it is in this context that the appeal for deputization must be understood

by all concerned. obviously, local and National Spiritual Assemblies are

expected to inform the friends of the importance of bahá’u’lláh’s instruc-

tion and to encourage action in this regard as an appropriate response by

individuals to the duty of teaching.

with the creation of training institutes across the globe, an added op-

portunity for a more direct involvement in deputization presents itself to the individual; the house of justice trusts therefore that the friends can be

helped to feel some connection with the specific centers of teaching activity to which their offerings for deputization are sent. it is for this reason that the

continental counselors and their auxiliaries have been called upon to play 310.4

310.5

310.6

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

691a distinctive role in this matter as officers bearing a particular responsibil-

ity for propagation, for the Auxiliary board members and their assistants

operate at the grassroots of the community and are able readily not only to stimulate individuals to teach but also to urge them, if their material circumstances allow, to respond to the need for deputization. by being able

to provide detailed information about current needs, they can make their

presentations immediately relevant to any interest shown by the friends.

This is why the house of justice has asked that the counselors keep their

Auxiliary board members apprised of the level of deputization required by

institutes in various regions so that they can make this information available

to those who wish to pursue this new possibility.

while, therefore, the Auxiliary board members are not being asked to

solicit funds in the sense of raising money in support of the continental

or any other fund, they do have the task of arousing commitment to the

teaching work, which includes acts of deputization, and they have access

to updated relevant information that is needed by friends interested in deputizing. in this connection, the action of these officers of the faith is

directed to individuals and not to local Spiritual Assemblies or other insti-

tutions. They, of course, share with Spiritual Assemblies the responsibility of promoting interest in deputization as an aspect of the teaching work, but their mode of operation places them in an advantageous position to reach

individuals in effective, intimate settings.

in sum, the call for deputization falls within the framework of teaching

and depends on individual response, as with pioneering. To establish a depu-tization fund goal would be to loosen the believers’ grasp of this important

characteristic of bahá’í life, which enhances individual motivation towards

and direct involvement in the teaching work. The bahá’í institutions must

do all they can to facilitate this special expression of individual responsibil-

ity towards promulgating the cause: the continental counselors and their

auxiliaries in the manner described above, the Spiritual Assemblies by en-

couraging it and providing useful information, the bahá’í funds by funneling

deputization contributions. given the situation in the united States, the fol-

lowing advice is offered in reply to your expressed wish to take some action:

1. The adoption of a financial goal for training institute deputization is not required, but you will want to underscore the importance of

deputization by keeping this matter before the friends.

2. An aspect of collaboration with the counselors would be for them

to share with you regularly the updated information they receive 310.7

310.8

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

692from the international Teaching center on the current needs of

training institutes throughout the world.

3. you could offer information and advice to the friends throughout

the community as to how the various funds may facilitate their wish

to contribute towards the deputization of teachers functioning at training institutes in other countries.

4. you will want to make sure that appropriate mechanisms exist for

transmitting to the respective continental funds the financial as-

sistance to training institute teachers that the friends pay to the local and National funds, together with information as to the

wishes of the donors.

The house of justice is confident that in these and other ways you may

devise in consultation with the counselors you will be able to give effective

support to individual efforts at deputization and thus ensure an outstanding place for your community in this vital endeavor.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

for Department  of tHe secretariat

311

Martyrdom of Bahá’í in Tajikistan

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]