THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1966-04-21

The Bahá’ís of the World Dearly loved Friends, 34.1 The Fiftieth Anniversary of the revelation by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in March and April 1916, of the first Tablets of the Divine Plan, has witnessed the conclusion of a feat of pioneering unparalleled in the annals of the Cause.  A year ago the call was raised for four-hundred-and-sixty-one pioneers to leave their homes within twelve months and scatter throughout the planet to broaden and strengthen the foundations of the world community of Bahá’u’lláh.  There is every hope that with the exception of thirty-four posts whose settlement is dependent upon favorable circumstances all the pioneer goals will be filled by Ri ḍván or their settlement will be assured by firm commitments.  The gratitude and admiration of the entire Bahá’í world go out to this noble band of dedicated believers who have so gloriously responded to the call.  These pioneers, who have arisen for the specified goals, have been reinforced by a further forty-five believers who have settled in the goal territories, while sixty-nine more have left their homes to reside in twenty-six other countries already opened to the Faith.   All told, in the course of the year, five- hundred-and-five Bahá’ís have arisen to pioneer beyond their homelands, the largest number ever to do so in any one year in the entire history of the Cause.

34.2 This is a resounding victory, and in the light of the Master's statement in the first of the Tablets of the Divine Plan, “It has often happened that one blessed soul has become the cause of the guidance of a nation,” of wonderful portent for the future.  Its immediate results are the opening of twenty-four new territories to the Faith, the resettlement of four others, and the consolidation of ninety-three more.  The newly opened territories are:  Chad and Niger in Africa; Alaskan Peninsula, Barbuda, Cayman Islands, Chiloé Island, Providencia Island, Quintana Roo Territory, Saba, St. Andrés Island, St. Eustatius, St. Kitts-Nevis, St. Lawrence Island, Tierra del Fuego, and Turks and Caicos Islands in the Americas; Laccadive Islands and Marmara Island in Asia; Niue Island in Australasia; and Bornholm, Capri, Elba, Gotland, Inner Hebrides, and Ischia in Europe.

34.3 The resettled territories are:  Corisco Island and Spanish Guinea in Africa and Maldive Islands and Nicobar Islands in Asia.

34.4 As announced last Ri ḍván, the first Convention of the Bahá’ís of Brunei will be held this year, during the second weekend of the Ri ḍván period, when the first National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Brunei will be elected.  Hand of the Cause Collis Featherstone will represent the World Center of the Faith on this historic occasion.

Formation of Nine National Assemblies at Ri ḍván 1967 34.5 A further result of the confirmations which have rewarded the tremendous teaching effort of the past two years is the call now made by the House of Justice for the formation at Ri ḍván 1967 of the following nine National Spiritual Assemblies:  in Africa—the National Spiritual Assembly of Algeria and Tunisia with its seat in Algiers; the National Spiritual Assembly of Cameroon Republic with its seat in Victoria and with Spanish Guinea, Fernando Po, Corisco and São Tomé and Príncipe Islands assigned to it; the National Spiritual Assembly of Swaziland, Mozambique 58and Basutoland with its seat in Mbabane; the National Spiritual Assembly of Zambia with its seat in Lusaka.  In the Americas—the National Spiritual Assembly of the Leeward, Windward and Virgin Islands with its seat in Charlotte Amalie.  In Asia—the National Spiritual Assembly of Cambodia with its seat in Phnom Penh; the National Spiritual Assembly of Eastern and Southern Arabia with its seat in Ba ḥrayn; the National Spiritual Assembly of Taiwan with its seat in Taipei.  In Australasia—the National Spiritual Assembly of  the Gilbert and Ellice Islands with its seat in Tarawa.  These nine new National Spiritual Assemblies constituting, together with the new National Spiritual Assembly of Brunei, ten additional pillars of the Universal House of Justice, will bring to seventy-nine the number which will take part during Ri ḍván 1968 in the second International Convention for the election of that Institution. Tribute to the Hands of the Cause of God 34.6 This momentous year cannot be allowed to pass without mention of the tireless and dedicated services of the beloved Hands of the Cause, the Standard-Bearers of the Nine Year Plan, and the able support rendered them by their Auxiliary Boards.  The special missions which they have

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]