God & Apple Pie

Interior of the main sanctuary of Rodef Shalom synagogue in Pittsburgh, Pennsylva-
nia, with American and Israeli flags flanking the bimah (elevated podium from which
the sacred Torah scroll is read aloud during a synagogue service).
Dr. J. Leonard Levy (Rabbi of Rodef Shalom Congregation from 1901–1917),
prepared a special Passover haggadah (“the telling” of Exodus, recited on the first
two nights of Passover) that calls for placing an American flag on the seder (ritual
and ceremonial dinner) table. Rabbi Levy’s ritual includes this remarkable liturgical
reading:
To us the United States of America stands as the foremost among nations, granting the
greatest liberty to all who dwell here. Therefore we grace our table with the National
flag. . . . The immortal Declaration of Independence is the Great Charter announced
before Pharaoh by Moses. The Abolitionists are the product of the Bible . . . The Fourth
of July is the American Passover. Thanksgiving is the American Feast of Tabernacles.
(Image courtesy of Rodef Shalom Congregation Archives.)

God & Apple Pie
Religious Myths and
Visions of America
Christopher Buck
Introduction by
J. Gordon Melton
Educator's International Press
Kingston, NY

Copyright © 2015 by Christopher Buck
All rights reserved.
Revised edition first published in 2015 by:
Educator’s International Press (EIP)
756 Linderman Avenue, Kingston, NY 12401
Distributed by Casemate International Publishers Marketing (IPM)
Printed in the United States of America
(First edition published by Praeger/ABC-CLIO, 2009.)
Library of Congress Cataloguing-in-Publication Data
on file at the Library of Congress, Washington, DC.
ISBN-13: 978-1-891928-15-4 (cloth)
ISBN-13:  978-1-891928-45-1 (paper)
British Library Cataloguing-in-Publication (CIP) Data is available.
Introduction:
J. Gordon Melton.
Cover design: Taraz Buck.
Cover image:
Larry Neuhardt
Photography: David Smith, and by other photographers named in caption attributions.
Production:
Bill Clockel and Marianna Vertullo.
Typeface:
Iowan Old Style 10/12.
The paper used in this book complies with the Permanent Paper Standard issued by the
National Information Standards Organization (Z39.48-1984).
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
All Rights Reserved

for Nahzy Abadi Buck
and our sons, Takur and Taraz

Contents
Acknowledgments
ix

Introduction
by J. Gordon Melton
Chapter 1
America: Nation and Notion
Chapter 2
Native American Myths and Visions of America
Chapter 3
Protestant Myths and Visions of America
Chapter 4
The Christian Right’s Myths and Visions of America
Chapter 5
Catholic Myths and Visions of America
Chapter 6
Jewish Myths and Visions of America
Chapter 7
Mormon Myths and Visions of America
Chapter 8
Christian Identity Myths and Visions of America
Chapter 9
Black Muslim Myths and Visions of America
Chapter 10
Contemporary Muslim Myths and Visions of America
Chapter 11
Buddhist Myths and Visions of America
Chapter 12
Baha’i Myths and Visions of America
Chapter 13
Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined
America’s World Role
References
About the Author

Acknowledgments
I not only use all the brains I have, but all I can borrow, and I have bor-
rowed a lot.
—Woodrow Wilson (1914)1
Some extraordinary people helped make this book possible.
God & Apple Pie is the new title of the revised edition of Religious Myths
and Visions of America: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role,
originally published by Praeger/ABC-CLIO in 2009. The 2015 revised edi-
tion of God & Apple Pie is now published by Educator’s International Press
(EIP), and is distributed by International Publishers Marketing (IPM). My
thanks to William (“Bill”) Clockel, publisher, for taking the business risk
of republishing a previously published title, under this revised edition. God
& Apple Pie is published under a reversion of future rights agreement for a
revised edition, kindly granted by ABC-CLIO on December 20, 2012. My
thanks to Suzanne Paris (Rights & Permissions Coordinator, ABC-CLIO)
for making this possible. The first edition was marketed primarily to librar-
ies, not to trade bookstores. Now, thanks to EIP and IPW, God & Apple Pie
is available in trade bookstores across the nation and is promoted interna-
tionally as well. The book that you are now reading was acclaimed by the
Journal of American Studies reviewer as “an original contribution to American
studies.”2 This revised edition updates the 2009 title, with the hope and
expectation that God & Apple Pie will attract widespread interest, now that
it is being sold in retail bookstores.
Endorsements
First, I wish to thank the following scholars for their respective endorse-
ments of Religious Myths and Visions of America:

x Acknowledgments
• Bruce E. Johansen, Frederick W. Kayser Professor, School of Communi-
cation, University of Nebraska at Omaha—author of Forgotten Founders:
Benjamin Franklin, the Iroquois, and the Rationale for the American Revolu-
tion (1982) and (with Donald A. Grinde, Jr.) Exemplar of Liberty: Native
America and the Evolution of Democracy (1991)—especially for his overall
endorsement of my book:
Religious Myths and Visions of America is an intellectual feast, spark-
ling with original interpretations of how many religions have
helped shape America’s national character, from the Iroquois
origin story, to Christian, Mormon, Black Muslim, and Baha’i
beliefs, among others. This book will provoke insights and con-
troversy for years to come.
• Todd Lawson, Emeritus Professor of Islamic Studies, Department of
Near and Middle Eastern Civilizations, University of Toronto—author
of Gnostic Apocalypse in Islam: The Qur’an and the Bábí Movement (2009)
and The Crucifixion and the Qur’an: A Study in the History of Muslim Thought
(2009)—with special thanks for his positive evaluation of this book’s
methodological contribution:
An experiment on the ‘idea of America’ with engaging results,
this book examines the role of ten religions in redefining Ameri-
ca’s world role—a topic of importance given America’s influence
in world affairs. On the premise that America is both ‘nation
and notion,’ this project is a breath of methodological fresh air.
Religious Myths and Visions of America is a novel, imaginative, and
rigorously scholarly contribution to comparative religion, wor-
thy of serious attention and debate. Of general contemporary
and historical interest to students, scholars, and thinking people
everywhere.”
• William E. Paden, Professor of Religion, University of Vermont—author
of Religious Worlds: The Comparative Study of Religion (1988/1994), and
Interpreting the Sacred: Ways of Viewing Religion (1992/2003)—notably
for his comment on the timely relevance of the book:
Christopher Buck’s new book is a timely and highly readable
consideration of the way American religions have continued
to remythologize the country. To this theme the author brings
impressive research and notable facility in the comparative study
of myth while at the same time presenting the material in an
entirely accessible, lucid, and interesting manner. Few topics are
more relevant today, in a time when the self-definition of Ameri-
cans is such an influential force on the global stage.

Acknowledgments xi
• Jay Parini, D. E. Axinn Professor of English and Creative Writing, Mid-
dlebury College—author of Promised Land: Thirteen Books That Changed
America (2008)—significantly for his insight that “America’s idea of
itself” is “central to our national psyche” and is therefore a key issue
in American studies:
In this remarkable book, Dr. Buck examines the key religious ideas
that have shaped America’s idea of itself. It’s a broadly informed
and beautifully written work that reveals the various strains in
American mythology and religion. This country has always had
a visionary aspect, a sense of the numinous; this impulse has
taken many different forms. I can think of no subject in American
studies more central to our national psyche. This is an important,
interesting, thought-provoking work.
• Andrew Rippin, Emeritus Professor of History (Specialist in Islamic
Studies with an interest in the Qur’an and the history of its inter-
pretation), former Dean of the Faculty of Humanities, University of
Victoria, Canada—author of Muslims: Their Religious Beliefs and Practices
(2005), and editor of The Blackwell Companion to the Qur’an (2006) and
The Islamic World (2008)—for his welcome assessment:
This is an ambitious and unique work, covering a broad range of
religious visions of America in their global context. Buck’s firm
theoretical framework and rigorous documentation make this
a significant contribution to contemporary discussions of the
place, role, and future of the diversity of religions that make up
America today.
• Richard W. Thomas, Emeritus Professor of History, Michigan State
University—author of Racial Unity: An Imperative for Social Progress
(1993) and Understanding Interracial Unity: A Study of U.S. Race Relations
(1996)—for calling attention to the connections between religion and
race in the American context:
For those of us who have yearned for a more readable and schol-
arly book on the multifaceted ways in which minorities, be they
racial, cultural, or religious, have ‘redefined America’s world
role,’ Christopher Buck’s most recent book is a welcome addition
to the fields of racial, cultural, and ethnic studies. Using myths
and visions of minority faiths, Buck has introduced an engaging
and fresh new approach to understanding and appreciating the
influence of these faiths on America’s role in the world. He does
this by bringing these minority faiths from the periphery of schol-
arly discourse to the center of a new, more inclusive scholarly

xii Acknowledgments
discourse. Scholars have always known about the impact of
race and ethnicity on religion throughout American history, but
Buck’s contribution is in the way that he explains the historical
connections between race and religion and in the process of shap-
ing America’s role in the world. Above all, Buck keeps the reader
engaged and intrigued in a study that reads like a good novel by a
warm fire on a cold winter evening.
Scholarly Advice
For their assistance with the manuscript itself, I would like to acknowledge
the contributions of these scholars as well:
• Introduction: J. Gordon Melton, Distinguished Professor of American
Religious History of Baylor University’s Institute for Studies in Reli-
gion, for writing his very fine Introduction to God & Apple Pie.
• Chapter 2: Barbara A. Mann, Ph.D. (Native American, Ohio Bear Clan
Seneca), Associate Professor, Honors College, University of Toledo, for
reading Chapter 2, and for offering constructive comments and advice.
Mann is author of Iroquoian Women: The Gantowisas (New York: Peter
Lang Publishing, 2000, 3rd printing, 2006).
• Chapter 2: Donald A. Grinde, Jr., Ph.D. (Native American, Yamassee),
Professor, Department of Transnational Studies, University at Buf-
falo, The State University of New York, for reading Chapter 2, and for
commenting favorably on it. Grinde is editor and author of A Political
History of Native Americans (Thousand Oaks, CA: CQ Press/Sage, 2002
[Choice Outstanding Academic Title 2003]).
• Chapter 2: Bruce E. Johansen, Frederick W. Kayser Professor, School
of Communication, University of Nebraska at Omaha (endorser, see
above) for reading Chapter 2, and for offering constructive comments
and advice.
• Chapter 5: Jonathan D. Sarna, the Joseph H. and Belle R. Braun Profes-
sor of American Jewish History at Brandeis University and Director of
its Hornstein Jewish Professional Leadership Program, for his assis-
tance with Chapter 5, “Jewish Myths and Visions of America.” Sarna is
widely acknowledged as the leading authority on the history of Amer-
ica Judaism.
• Chapter 7: Michael Barkun, Professor Emeritus of Political Science,
Department of Political Science, Maxwell School, Syracuse University,
Syracuse, NY, for reading Chapter 7, and for commenting favorably on
it. Barkun is author of the Religion and the Racist Right: The Origins of the
Christian Identity Movement (rev. edn.; Chapel Hill, NC: University of
North Carolina Press, 1996), one of the leading monographs in this

Acknowledgments xiii
field of research and recipient of the 1996 Outstanding Book Award,
Gustavus Myers Center for the Study of Bigotry and Human Rights in
North America.
• Chapter 9: Andrew Rippin, Emeritus Professor of History, Specialist in
Islamic Studies (with an interest in the Qur’an and the history of its
interpretation) and former Dean of the Faculty of Humanities, Uni-
versity of Victoria, for his assistance with Chapter 9, “Contemporary
Muslim Myths and Visions of America.”
• Chapter 9: Imam Abu Laith Luqman Ahmad, for his kind permission to
publish excerpts from his essay and social commentary, “Islam Ameri-
can Style” (2004).
• Chapter 10: Noriyo A. Sekiyama, Academic Affairs Coordinator, Soka
Gakkai Office of Public Information in Tokyo, for her kind assistance in
reading and commenting on drafts of Chapter 10, “Buddhist Myths and
Visions of America,” and for sending me several SGI books, including
works authored by Daisaku Ikeda, which were useful in writing this
chapter.
• Chapter 11: Robert Stockman, Director of the Wilmette Institute, and
Instructor of Religious Studies at DePaul University, for access to his
Harvard dissertation cited in Chapter 11, “Baha’i Myths and Visions of
America.”
• Chapter 11: Loni Bramson, Associate Professor, American Public
University System, for her constructive comments on the section of
Chapter 11, “Baha’i Myths and Visions of America,” describing the
Baha’i “institute process,” the “Junior Youth Spiritual Empowerment
Programmes,” and related worldwide Baha’i initiatives.
Design & Production of God & Apple Pie
• Cover Design: Taraz Buck, for his superb cover design, which captures so
well the “spirit and power” of God & Apple Pie.
• Photographs: David Smith, for contributing several photographs that
enhance and add “visual rhetoric” to the “God and country” themes of
God & Apple Pie.
• Production: William (“Bill”) Clockel, for overseeing the production and
publication of God & Apple Pie, and to Marianna Vertullo, for her profes-
sional work in the design and production of this book.
Professional & Personal
And, last but not least—for professional and/or personal support of this
project—I am indebted to the following individuals:

xiv Acknowledgments
• Bobbi Lyons, of Ontario, Canada, for preparing and proofing a manu-
script text, in Microsoft Word, based on the first edition of Religious
Myths and Visions of America, so that I could begin work on the revised
edition (God & Apple Pie).
• Edward (“Ned”) Walker, Ph.D, professor, Department of Entomology
and the Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Michigan
State University, for his research assistance.
• Nahzy Abadi Buck, my beloved wife of 30 years, for her encouragement,
urging me to turn God & Apple Pie: Visions of America’s Spiritual Destiny—
a course I designed and taught at Millikin University (1997)—into a
book. Prior to that, Nahzy made possible my advanced degrees—M.A.
(University of Calgary, 1991), Ph.D. (University of Toronto, 1996) and
Juris Doctor (2006)—which provided the academic training I needed
to write God & Apple Pie.
• Takur Buck—now studying for his board exams on his path to becom-
ing a medical doctor—for his encouragement, inspiration and moral
(morale) support.
• Taraz Buck—Ph.D., Computational Biology, Carnegie Mellon Univer-
sity (2013)—not only for designing the cover of God & Apple Pie, but
for his technical troubleshooting in the inevitable computing jams I
would find myself in, and for his model of academic achievement that
continues to amaze me.
• Bradford Miller—author of The Soul of the Maine House: For Those Seeking
a Spiritual Home in America: a Radical Religious Reflection (EIP, 2014)—
for introducing me to Bill Clockel, President, Educator’s International
Press.
• My students at Michigan State University—who enrolled in my Reli-
gious Myths of America course in fall 2003 and spring 2004—for their
intrinsic interest, beyond grades, in the subject matter of the course
itself; for their uncanny, critical questions; for their creative, multime-
dia group presentations; and for their engaged and lively discussions.
Christopher Buck
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Notes

1. Woodrow Wilson, “Woodrow Wilson: The Man,” Journal of Education 79.16
(April 16, 1914): 427–428 [427].

2. Richard G. Kyle, Review of Religious Myths and Visions of America. Journal
of American History 98.1 (June 2011): 279–280.

Introduction
Almost from the beginning of my many years of looking at the spectrum
of religious groups that had been spawned in the United States over the last
two centuries, I came face to face with churches that displayed their patriot-
ism, often in seemingly inappropriate ways; preachers that denounced the
evil that America had become; and still other groups that tried to consider
in a serious and sophisticated manner the theological and cosmological sig-
nificance of the country in which they resided and the meaning of being
Americans. Such activity by groups brought me back to my own context as
a young Methodist minister whose church’s founders had felt compelled
to add a statement on America in our Articles of Religion. As the church
is being formally organized, which occurs on the heels of the American
Revolution, they issued a formal statement of loyalty to the government
of the new United States, part of a strategy of asserting loyalty by a group
largely identified with the Tory cause during the years of fighting. As I took
my initial seminary courses in Methodist history, I had to ask myself what
it meant to make patriotic assertions amid the theological commitments to
all the peoples of the world encompassed by God’s grace. After all, I lived in
a land not even known to exist by the biblical writers.
These beginning questions would lead fifty years later to a variety of obser-
vations about America and its place in the religious world. First, through the
nineteenth century into the twentieth, America moved from a situation in
which Christianity was the religion of a minority but nevertheless the domi-
nant religion of the country (its only competition coming from a very small
Jewish community and the steadily declining Native American religions) to
one in which it is the majority religion by a large margin, but now faces compe-
tition from substantial communities of the world’s religions from Hinduism
and Buddhism to Islam and Western Esotericism. Not only is competition
from the outside very real, but internally, the Christian community is divided
into hundreds of denominations, some of which offer very distinctive visions
of “True” Christianity—Christian Scientists, Jehovah’s Witnesses, Latter-day
Saints—visions different enough that Christian spokespersons single them

2 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
out with harsh labels like “heresy” and “cult.” Some would even be labeled
“un-American” when, like the Jehovah’s Witnesses, they challenged Ameri-
can sacred symbols by refusing to salute the flag.
Because they emerged from the Revolution into a relatively secular
nation, the nineteenth-century Christians felt they had to articulate their
place and role in this new kind of country that had been created by such an
unchristian activity as revolution. Through the first half of the century, they
argued about condoning such an unbiblical act which appeared, for many,
to go against Jesus words of rendering unto Caesar and the Apostle Paul’s
admonition to be subject to the civil powers under which Christians found
themselves. They had to find ways, on the one hand, to identify with ancient
Israel in a context in which separation of church and state was an emerging
reality, and, on the other hand, to find a new way to affirm the role of God
in people’s lives. They would find their answers in the long-term success of
their evangelistic endeavors which decade by decade brought members into
the church well ahead of the rate of population growth, and in the vision of
America as a unique land, an inheritor of biblical promises to Israel with a
destiny to be a light to the world’s peoples and a key role in bringing into
visible reality the kingdom of God.
That vision of America would have immense implications for all Ameri-
cans. It would be integrated more or less self-consciously into Christian
theology and become part of the Protestant Christian apologetic. It would
become integrated into the all-important myth about race. It has undergirded
the privileging those of Northern and Western European extraction—iden-
tified as the “real” Americans—and thus justify calling into question the
Americanism of those of African, Asian, and Eastern European heritage.
By the late twentieth century, it would force those adhering to other than
Christian religions to add the task of thinking theologically about America
to their list of “must dos” on their pilgrimage into the American main-
stream. Occasionally, groups had to prioritize such ruminations as a simple
survival mechanism when faced with attempts to deny them any future as
American citizens, as was done to American Shintoists and Buddhists dur-
ing World War II.
Secondly, while American religious history has been dominated by the
Protestant Christian community, it became a widely diversified community.
Starting with less than 20 denominations at its founding, by the end of
the nineteenth century, some 300 Christian denominations had appeared,
Judaism had begun its diversification, and a fledgling Esoteric community
had emerged. Today more than a thousand Christian denominations dot
the land, and easily many more groups, representatives of the world’s rich
religious heritage, now fill out the religious landscape, not to mention the
still relatively small but very vocal atheist/humanist groups. They present
a massive scene upon which even the most dedicated observer can scarcely
attempt to get a handle. And all of two thousand religious groups have an
opinion on America.

Introduction 3
Some, like the Jehovah’s Witnesses and the Children of God of the 1970s,
denounced America as a rotting, failing system that has no ultimate place in
God’s coming kingdom and called believers to abandon it. On the other end
of the spectrum, groups found in America a portal for entering the kingdom,
resulting in their developing a heightened sense of patriotism. The “I AM”
religious movement, which emerged as World War II loomed on the horizon,
saw their founder as a reincarnation of George Washington and have contin-
ued their commitment to a divinely ordained America in the decades since.
Both extremes, with multiple positions in between, would find their place
in the nineteenth century in the Anglo-Israel movement, one of the more
unique theological attempts to justify initially British, but then American,
global expansion by identifying the Anglo-Saxon nations as the present-day
survivals of the Ten Lost Tribes of Israel. Anglo-Israelism found its way into
numerous different church communities, none more so than Adventism,
where it would finally emerge as a key element in the theology of televange-
list Herbert W. Armstrong who would distribute hundreds of thousands of
copies of his The United States and Britain in Prophecy book.
Far from being an interesting additional topic for the religious dilettante,
the discussion, around the theological reality that is America, periodically
bursts forth as an important item on the nation’s agenda, from the place of
prayer services in the White House, to the issuance of an annual govern-
ment report on religious persecution, to the rise of contemporary terrorism.
As one traces radical Islam, for example, one arrives at the writings of one
Sayyid Qutb, an Egyptian who spent some of his younger years in America,
and came away with his own vision of a country mired in sin and decadence.
He would posit America as the image of everything he hoped to escape in
promoting the agenda of the Muslim Brotherhood.
Now, in all honesty, I must admit that over the years as I encountered all
of the intriguing, even fascinating, ideas about America in the great cosmic
scheme of things, I never got around to systematically gathering the differ-
ent visions and trying to make sense of them in any detailed fashion. Thus,
I have been more than happy to receive, and now with this modest intro-
duction, pass along to my scholarly colleagues and the reading public the
work of Christopher Buck. During his years of observation and research,
he has surveyed the spectrum of visions of America that have energized
and motivated the America’s religious community, and has selected from
among them a sample that both (1) represents the spectrum of opinion
about America and its importance, and (2) highlights the more important
visions of America that have shaped and are continuing to shape the way
we understand this country we call home. His work calls us to become self-
conscious about the assumptions we use in our day-to-day movements that
massage the ways we approach our neighbors, our colleagues at work, and
the politicians for whom we vote.
Buck begins with the visions of America present at the founding of the
nation, aspects of which still strongly permeate the culture today, and have

4 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
found a new home among conservative Protestants in their innovative idea
of a Christian America. Amid the Protestant context, we often forget the
role of the Roman Catholic Church, which became the largest religious
body in America in the 1840s and is now three times larger than its nearest
competitor. At the end of the nineteenth century, a controversy on Ameri-
canism would erupt around Catholic visions of their place in a changing
world that would drive it from participation in the nation’s public square
for a half-century, and molded its reentrance after World War II.
And then there are all the other-than-Christian religions, from Ahmad-
iyya Muslims to Zoroastrians, all of which possess their own vision of
America that shapes their appropriation of life in the United States and
guides their development as their place in the nation was challenged, then
accepted, and most recently affirmed and even celebrated by the nation as
a whole. We have watched as Buddhists have carved out a place as cultural
peacemakers, Muslims have struggled with separation of religion and gov-
ernment, and Baha’is have tried to understand the communication of their
founder, Baha’u’llah, with the presidents of the Americas collectively, and
with ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s statements about the destiny of America in particular.
All of this occurs in the ebb and flow of religious life. One day we envi-
sion the possible unity of America’s religions only to be thrown up against
the many harsh divisions, which motivates us once more to seek realms of
agreement, which again highlights the array of issues that can drive wedges
between those who accept the label “American” as part of their self-identity.
In conclusion, I can, as a scholar, reflect on the contribution that this
book, God and Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America, is making to
our understanding of the American mosaic and how various segments of
the religious community have found their way to being American. As an
informed citizen I welcome its information that allows me to empathize
with and make informed decisions relative to those with whom I might
align (or oppose) as I sally forth in the public square. And on a personal
level, I welcome the author’s invitation for me to meet anew the residents
of my neighborhood, those who shop in the same stores I do, send their
children to the same schools my grandchildren attend, and diligently work
toward their own appropriation of the American dream.
J. Gordon Melton
Distinguished Professor of American Religious History
Baylor University
January 2015

Figure 1.1. The Civil War erupted on April 12, 1861 when Fort Sumter (Charles-
ton Harbor, South Carolina) fell under Confederate artillery attack. Major Robert
Anderson, garrison commander, surrendered the very next day. Soon after, on May
21, 1861, Currier & Ives, one of America’s leading printmakers, copyrighted this
lithograph of “The Spirit of 61,” with the inscription, “God, our country and liberty!!”
Here, “Columbia,” defiantly brandishing her sword and bearing the Union flag,
is the spirit of America personified. Just as “Columbia” symbolizes America, so also
can certain values—secular and religious—enshrine the very “idea of America.”
(Public domain. Library of Congress. See http://www.loc.gov/pictures/item/
2003674564/. Accessed January 12, 2015.)

Chapter 1
America: Nation and Notion
Nations provoke fantasy.
—Lauren Gail Berlant (1991)1
America is not a geographic so much as a visionary concept and entity.
—Kevin Lewis (1999)2
Any vital myth does not hide in the hinterland of a “realm of ideas” but
impinges upon the life of a people as a spring of their action. To give seri-
ous attention to the myth of American destiny in its various forms is to
heed the concrete courses of action that are excited by it and that in turn
affect it.
—Conrad Cherry (1998)3
This book is about an unusual religious topic: the United States of America
(“America”).
“America” is, at once, nation and notion, country and creed, republic
and rhetoric, entity and ideology, sovereignty and salience. In other words,
“America” is real and abstract. There are secular ideas about America, and
then there are religious perspectives on America. Given America’s preemi-
nent position in the world today, the present volume treats the relationship
of the supernatural world to the world’s superpower. In fine, this book is
about Providence and principle—as these relate to America.
The proverbial idea of “God and country”—as applied to America—is
presented in a wide array of religious texts that are the subject of this study.
The idea of America, as a religious concept, is an intriguing social phenom-
enon—one that has received considerable scholarly attention in terms of
American Protestantism, but yet remains to be fully explored with respect
to America’s other religions, which have been termed by James H. Moor-
head as America’s “minority faiths.”4 The study of how minority faiths have
redefined America’s sense of national purpose is what Religious Myths and
Visions of America is about.

8 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
The fact that America is presented in a somewhat novel way in this study
is perhaps the main claim for the book’s originality and contribution to
American studies. Beyond presenting these religious views of America, an
effort will be made to make sense of them. What significance, if any, do these
religious ideas about America have for the twenty-first century? Patterns
will be identified and compared. At a deeper level of analysis, meaningful
connections will be made, and a web of significance will emerge. At the end
of this book, the reader will see America in a new light.
As the epigraph above says, “Nations provoke fantasy.” Myths and visions
of various nations are nothing new. Throughout history, peoples have had
visions of their origins, destiny, and mission, as Donald White points out:
“For Romans, the worldview was a Pax Romana embodied in a divine Cae-
sar; for Arabs, it was Islam; for Englishmen, it was the imperialism of the
‘White Man’s Burden’; for Soviet Russia, it was Marxist communism.”5 In
much the same way, visionary “America” has served as a source of social
cohesion and has imbued the country with a sense of national purpose.
“America” is a word that has taken on mythic proportions.
“America” is not in the Bible, nor in the Qur’an (the holy book of Islam),
nor in the vast majority of the scriptures of the great world religions. Yet
“America” today pulsates with religious significance. How is that possi-
ble? This is because some religions, in the modern context, have invested
America with religious significance. As a survey of religions that have
attached some kind of spiritual meaning to America—that is, “a theology of
America”—it is precisely this ideological and social phenomenon that has
determined the selection process for which religions have been included
with the scope of this study, to the exclusion of others.
Not every religion in America has a religious view of America. Such
faith-communities as the Quakers, the Amish, the Seventh-day Adventists,
Lutherans, Hindus, Jains, Sikhs, and Zoroastrians, to name a few, have not
been represented in this book. The reason is simple: most religions do not
have identifiably religious convictions about America. Those that do have
been included in this book. Eleven religions have been selected for their
distinctive perspectives on America: (1) Native American religion (Iro-
quois); (2) Protestant Christianity (the Puritans); (3) the Christian Right;
(4) Roman Catholicism; (5) Judaism (Orthodox, Conservative, Reform,
and Reconstructionist); (6) The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
(the Mormons); (7) Christian Identity (White nationalists); (8) the Nation
of Islam (Black nationalists); (9) Contemporary Islam (especially Radical
Islamists and Progressive Muslims); (10) Buddhism (Tibetan and Soka
Gakkai); and (11) the Baha’i Faith. These eleven religions were not cho-
sen because of what they say about America, but simply because they have
something to say about America. If more such religions come to light, then
a revised and expanded edition of Religious Myths and Visions of America may
be called for. This book therefore invites serious reflection on what it means
to be an American, particularly from a religious perspective.

America: Nation and Notion 9
The selection process, in the planning stages of this book, was not easy.
The eleven religions privileged in this study neither have the same beliefs
about America nor hold those beliefs with the same degree of religious
conviction. American Judaism, for instance, exemplifies what is referred
to as “Jewish Americanism” or what Jonathan D. Sarna calls the “cult of
synthesis.”6 Apart from various prayers for America, however, there is
little by way of any Jewish doctrine regarding America. Where are actual
religious doctrines regarding America to be found? Clearly, the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (the Mormons) and the Baha’i Faith have
clearly enunciated beliefs about the spiritual destiny of America. Similarly,
although parochially with some concession to the social fact of religious
pluralism, the Christian Right seeks to promote Christian values consis-
tent with America as a “Christian nation.” What most, but not all of these
eleven religions do share is a sense of America’s mission—or the “world
role” to which America should aspire.
To recapitulate, the single most important criterion for the selection of
a religion for inclusion in this study is that it must have something to say
about America, whether positive or negative. One would think that this
would include all of the religions that have specifically American origins. In
the case of the Seventh-day Adventists, which is one of the most successful of
America’s indigenous religions, a conscious effort has been made by Adven-
tists to distance the religion from any hint of American religious nationalism:
“In Adventism, the American dream is reinterpreted; in Mormonism, Chris-
tianity is reinterpreted. Adventists have become un-American in an effort to
be more truly American.”7 The result was a decidedly dark apocalyptic vision
of America—a vision that, theoretically speaking, is germane and otherwise
within the scope of this book. For instance, one Adventist, in 1851, inter-
preted the “two horns like a lamb”—a description of the Beast in Revelation
13—as denoting “the civil and religious power of this nation [America]—its
Republican civil power, and its Protestant ecclesiastical power.”8 American
religious power was viewed as corrupt for having instituted Sunday rather
than Saturday Sabbath, which is a central issue considering the Sabbatarian-
ism that has indelibly stamped Adventist identity.
Very late in the writing of the first edition of God & Apple Pie, the author
came across this dissertation: Dawn L. Hutchinson, “Antiquity and Social
Reform: Religious Experience in the Unification Church, Feminist Wicca
and the Nation of Yahweh” (2007).89 But it was really far too late to include
these religions in the present volume. Therefore, a very brief mention will be
made here of their respective visions of America. “The Unification Church,”
Hutchinson relates, “offered a way to purify the morally corrupt Ameri-
can society and the rest of the world through perfected families.”10 The
Unification Church’s vision of America was most optimistic in 1976, when
America was celebrating the bicentennial of the Declaration of Indepen-
dence: “[Rev. Sun Myung] Moon saw the celebration of the bicentennial of
America as an opportunity to stress the providential destiny of America.”11

10 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
“Feminist Wicca,” Hutchinson continues, “proposed a vision of a peace-
ful American society in which women and men shared power equally.”12
“The Nation of Yahweh,” says the author regarding this separatist religion,
“meant . . . to wage a war against the white establishment in the United
States, one action at a time, dismantling the power structure of the persecu-
tors of African-Americans.”13
In Myths America Lives By, Richard T. Hughes, Distinguished Professor
of Religion and the Director of the Center for Faith and Learning at Pep-
perdine University, presents five foundational myths of America: (1) the
Myth of the Chosen Nation; (2) the Myth of Nature’s Nation; (3) the
Myth of the Christian Nation; (4) the Myth of the Millennial Nation, and
(5) the Myth of the Innocent Nation.14 These are powerful social myths
that have largely shaped mainstream American identity. Moreover, these
fives myths are predominantly representative of what may be called the
Protestant master myth of America. Indeed, both Hughes himself and the
writer of the foreword, Robert Bellah, write from a decidedly Christian
perspective: “Richard Hughes writes as a Christian and so do I.”15 These
foundational myths form what is called American civil religion, which
may be defined as follows:
American civil religion is an institutionalized set of beliefs about the
nation, including a faith in a transcendent deity who will protect and
guide the United States as long as its people and government abide by
his laws. The virtues of liberty, justice, charity, and personal integrity
are all pillars of this religion and lend a moral dimension to its pub-
lic decision-making processes quite different from the realpolitik that
presumably underlies the calculations of states not equally favored by
divine providence. American civil religion is clearly an offshoot of the
Judeo-Christian tradition, but it is not confined to conventional denomi-
national categories.16
While Myths America Lives By is a framing statement about American
civil religion, the present volume treats a wider array of myths of Amer-
ica. The Native American, Protestant, Catholic, Jewish, Mormon, Christian
Identity, Black Muslim, traditional Muslim, Buddhist, and Baha’i religions
each has its own special metaphorics (ideating images) of “the American
experiment.” These are communicated through religious myths and visions
of America.
At the outset, it is important to define what is meant by religious
“myths” by defining what myths are not. For our purposes, myths are not
merely “tall tales” or travesties of truth. Rather, religious myths are tapes-
tries into which the woof of social truths are woven into the warp of sacred
narrative. In other words, religious myths are spiritual and social ideals
are enshrined in narrative form. A religious myth, if not literally true, can
therefore be called a “true lie.” This is because the function of storytelling

America: Nation and Notion 11
is not to rehearse historical fact, but to convey spiritual truth. Just as Aesop’s
fables each had a “moral” to the story, religious myths are vehicles of moral
values. This accords with Peter D. Salins’s definition: “Myths are not mere
fantasies or untruths. Myths are exaggerated or simplified representations
of human traits and situations, paradigms of society and morality, that are
based on some underlying truth.”17 Put more positively, myths “function as
paradigmatic truths, informing social norms and categories used to describe
identities.”18
The “myth of America” exists in a variety of forms. Closely associated
with the “myth of America” is a sense of national purpose, or “mission.”
Historically, the dominant myth of America has been the Protestant “master
myth” of America. For instance, there were two biblical motifs that formed
the historic taproot of America’s sense of destiny: America’s identification
with ancient Israel and the Kingdom of God.19 Beginning with the Puritans,
the Protestant mission in America was to colonize, to Christianize, and to
civilize. The Puritans have vanished, but vestiges of the religious meaning
that they invested in America persist to this day. These religious visions of
America, and the ideals that they enshrine, are part of a process that may
be thought of as the symbolic construction of America. The idea of America has
been summed up in this succinct statement:
America’s sense of itself always had a self-conscious, even ideological,
side. First, the United States, founded by a rebellion against legitimate
authority, had to explain and justify that rebellion to mankind. Then, the
growing nation had to justify taking over a continent from its previous
owners. Finally, it had to persuade the immigrants arriving on that con-
tinent that, in assimilating to the American nation, they were not being
false to themselves, that Americanism was in some sense a universal
creed to which all could be admitted.20
Common to most of these religious visions of America is some sort of
belief in “God and country.” Any belief that links God with America can
rightly be called a “theology of America.” Dean Hoge was the first to coin
the neologism, “theology of America.”21 And so a religiously inspired per-
spective on America is typically a “theology of America,” although this
would certainly not hold true for a nontheistic religion like Buddhism.
Thus, except for nontheistic religions such as Buddhism, religious views
of America may generally be described as “theologies of America,” as Hoge
explains: “Any living religious community has theological views about many
things, and these things include the nation. In America such views might be
called ‘theology of America’.”22
Obviously, there is no single religious idea or “theology of America.”
Just as there are different religions in America, so there are sundry reli-
gious visions of America. By presenting a range of religious perspectives
on America, this book invites serious reflection on what it means to be

12 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
an American. However, it is not enough merely to catalog these views on
America. It is important to make sense of them as well. And in order to make
sense of competing ideas about America, one may ask if these ideas reflect
any patterns. If so, can these patterns be explained? This is where compara-
tive method generally comes into play. This is a challenge since there is no
well-defined “method” to follow, as Americanist Donald White points out:
“The study of social myth has lacked coherent method.”23 Notwithstanding,
the lack of consensus on method should not deter such a study from being
undertaken. Often, the topic under study—and the questions that interro-
gate it—suggest an approach and method that intrinsically arise out of the
very subject matter itself. That is the case in the present study.
In a word, America was founded on religious ideals and continues to be
reshaped by them. The reader will discover that some of today’s minority
religions offer fresh ideas about America that enrich our understanding of
the significance of America today, particularly as regards its place in the
world today. To the extent that the minority faiths, as presented in this
study, offer new ideas regarding America, one can say that religions remy-
thologize America. In order to appreciate this concept of remythologizing,
it will be necessary to relate minority religious visions of America to the
Protestant “master myth” of America.
Civil Myths of America and Civil Religion
The notion of a nation is nationalism. American nationalism is an idealiza-
tion of the character of America. The “idea of America”—to use academic
parlance—has taken on mythic proportions. America has a national mythol-
ogy, anchored in history but embellished by idealization. That mythic
idealization has played a formative and sustaining role in “the construc-
tion of American nationhood.”24 Just as the American national character
changes over time, as a function of social change, so do America’s myths
and symbols. Thus the late Canadian Americanist Sacvan Bercovitch wrote
of “transformations in the symbolic construction of America.”25
Nationalism and religion often combine to form religious nationalism,
which typically takes on mythic proportions. “Religious nationalism is the
fusion of nationalism and religion such that they are inseparable,” accord-
ing to Barbara-Ann J. Rieffer.26 “It is a community of religious people or
the political movement of a group of people heavily influenced by religious
beliefs who aspire to be politically self-determining.”27 Religious national-
ism can make great use of myth. “Myth is the primary language of historical
memory,” writes Richard Slotkin, “a body of traditional stories that have,
over time, been used to summarize the course of our collective history and
to assign ideological meanings to that history.”28 Political theorist George
Schöpflin treats myths as an element in the formation and maintenance of

America: Nation and Notion 13
national identities, America being no exception. National myths function
on both personal and social levels, according to Schöpflin, “so that indi-
viduals may construct their identities as individuals and simultaneously as
members of a community.”29
Nationalism incorporates myth.30 Just as nationalism is an invented
doctrine, so are myths. Myths are “true lies.” The “lies” are the tall tales
that myths tell, while mythic “truths” are the social precepts these tales
convey. In other words, myths are fictions that serve as vehicles of truth.
From this perspective, Mary Fulbrook states that “myths are stories which
are not necessarily true, nor even believed to be true, but which have
symbolic power.”31 Anthony D. Smith states that, “Modern nationalism
can be seen in part as deriving from powerful, external, and premodern
traditions, symbols, and myths, which are then taken up and recast in the
nationalist ideologies of national mission and destiny as these emerge
in the crucible of modernization”; Smith even speaks of “a symbiosis
and even a fusion between the earlier religious myths and the national-
ist ideal.”32 That symbolic power reinforces national ideology and thus
national identity. As mythographer William Doty states: “Myths provide
‘charters’ insofar as they justify and exemplify the social order.”33 Myths
capture social truths. While those truths are not the whole truth, they are
the truths of a whole people.
Civil myths of America often have a religious dimension, reflecting
a fusion of “God and country.” Their hybridization has been noted by
Anthony D. Smith.34 Smith argues that nationalism “draws much of its pas-
sion, conviction and intensity from the belief in a national mission and
destiny; and this belief in turn owes much to a powerful religious myth of
ethnic election.”35 America, broadly speaking, has its myths of origin, myths
of mission, and myths of destiny—the “master myth” being the collective
Protestant myth of America, most famously secularized as American excep-
tionalism.36 Thus one can speak of religious visions of America as a species
of national myth. Traditionally, Protestant myths of America have served as
the stained-glass windows of national ideals. They form a master myth of
American destiny.37 Protestant visions of America are a hybrid of religious
and national myth, combining to form what has been termed “American
civil religion.”38
Sociologist Dean Hoge has outlined three basic civil visions of America,
the first two of which originate in American Protestantism. The first vision
of America is that of a model nation, a Puritan vision that “focused on mak-
ing America an example to the world, a model society to show all the world
what a godly and free nation can be.”39 The second vision “saw America as
a chosen people with an obligation to work actively in the world to win oth-
ers to American principles and to safeguard those principles everywhere.”40
Although weak at first, this vision was the direct precursor of the doctrine of
Manifest Destiny: “It was clearly stated in the doctrine of Manifest Destiny,

14 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
that America’s destiny was to settle the whole continent—and later, to bring
freedom and civilization to all peoples.”41 Hoge also notes that this “activ-
istic vision” of America “was a motivating source of the world Christian
mission movement and of American expansionism in the late nineteenth
century” in that “America would save the world for Christ or for democ-
racy.”42 “A third vision of America’s mission,” Hoge goes on to say, “calls for
internationalism based not on messianic ideas but on a posture of openness
and cooperation, assuming that others have legitimate interests and identi-
ties and equally valid perceptions of truth.”43 Hoge connects this third ideal
with Robert Bellah’s ideal of a “world civil religion”44—a concept that the
present writer will expand on in the “Conclusion” (Chapter 13). Examples
of each of these three basic types of religious and civil visions of America
appear throughout this book.
Religious Myths and Visions of America
Sociofunctionalism recognizes the fact that myths convey social and moral
values. In the same vein, one may define a “religious myth of America” as
an “idealized narrative exemplifying key precepts and practices.” This is true inso-
far as the myth incorporates and conveys social values in an effective way.
When a story is told, a truth is told. A narrative that is descriptive in form may
be prescriptive in function.
America’s national myth has Puritan origins, and religion has helped
shape American identity ever since. A prime example is the doctrine of
Manifest Destiny (the right of America to colonize, Christianize, and civilize
the continent of North America). Nearly every American student learns
of “Manifest Destiny”45—the American imperial myth. Manifest Destiny is
the doctrine that Euro-Americans had a God-given right to conquer and
colonize North America, and eventually to civilize and imperialize Hawaii,
Cuba, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Philippines. Manifest Destiny is a salient
theme in American history that runs through the Indian Wars, the Mexi-
can-American War, the Spanish-American War, the wars across the Arc of
Rimland Asia, and beyond.
The present study treats religious myths and religious visions as com-
plementary categories. The two typically go together. There is certainly
overlap between religious myths and religious visions of America. Such
myths, as previously said, are descriptive in form yet may be prescriptive in
function. These myths are thought-orienting, whereas visions of America are
typically action-orienting. That is to say, such myths and visions are pre-
scriptive in function.
The Protestant myth of America—which has long reigned as America’s
master myth—is arguably being reshaped by religious visions of America
held by minority faiths, as historian James Moorhead has suggested: “But

America: Nation and Notion 15
the point is that minority faiths themselves played no small part in the
weakening of white Protestant hegemony. Their creativity in adapting and
reinterpreting the symbols of American destiny broadened the framework
of discourse within which citizens explained national identity.”46 While
the religious “master myth” of America is Protestant, this myth is being
improvised upon by alternative myths of America held by religious minor-
ities, who have altered America’s religious landscape, and by Protestants
themselves. The question is how? How have minority religions dealt with
the Protestant myth of America? First, according to Moorhead, minority
faiths strove to understand the meaning of America and their place in it.
Second, minority faiths could turn ideas originally derived from Protes-
tantism to their own uses. Third, minority religions and the Protestant
mainstream engaged in a complex pattern of contests and negotiations
as together they redefined American identity. Minority religious visions
of America have thus broadened—and continue to reshape—American
identity.
A study in the new religious dimensions of American identity is one
whose time has come. The myths and visions of America, as held by minor-
ity faiths covered in this volume, are productive of a view of America that is
essentially reactive to the Protestant mything of America. These competing
myths of America have been as undertheorized as they have been inad-
equately surveyed and compared.
Racial Myths and Visions of America
Perhaps the most salient theme among these minority myths of America
is that of race. Indeed, the theme of race stands out as a defining fea-
ture of these visions and myths. In a sense, this was already predicted by
David Wills, who has suggested that the “central themes” of American
religious history are pluralism, Puritanism, and the encounter of black
and white.47 According to Paul Harvey, Christianity was a major catalyst in
racializing America: “Christianity necessarily was central to the process of
racializing peoples—imposing categories of racial hierarchies upon groups
of humanity or other societies.”48 One may say that religions in America
have dealt with racial categories in various ways. This is really a modern
phenomenon, and one that is refracted in various religious communities
as an epiphenomenon of the whole notion of “race.” For purely illustrative
purposes, while disclaiming any attempt to essentialize religions, certain
patterns with respect to American religions and race begin to fall into
focus once their respective visions of America are studied and then com-
pared. On comparative grounds, therefore, one may venture the following
“operative hypotheses,” to be elucidated, tested, and refined throughout
the course of this book.

16 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Tentatively, one may say that Protestant Christianity had set a racial
agenda during the colonial period. At the risk of oversimplifying, Ameri-
can Protestantism—by rationalizing and institutionalizing slavery in the
South, and by formulating opposing rationale in the North—set the stage
for racial ideologies that had social consequences of world-historical pro-
portions. To this history and its persisting legacy, minority faiths have
tended to “react” to the problem of race in their own ways. As for the
minority faiths surveyed in this book, the Nation of Islam has idiosyncrat-
ically racialized America by mythologizing Blacks as “original” and thus
superior. Equally as idiosyncratically as well as invidiously, Christian Iden-
tity has racialized America by mythologizing Whites as racially “pure” and
thus superior. The Mormons have racialized America by mythologizing
Native Americans as transplanted Whites, but since darkened, and Blacks
as once cursed, but now eligible for priesthood (males). However, since
1978, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has now adopted a
much more egalitarian stance. And the Baha’i Faith has reacted to a racial-
ized America by representing race as America’s most challenging issue,
the solution to which is to harmonize the races and thus ultimately dera-
cialize America.
The process of racializing and redefining race affords a prime example
of a conscious flux in American identity and religious thought over time.
Although not useful as a biological category, race has operated (and still
operates) as a central determinant of social identity, in which the social
world is literally seen in terms of black and white. America is not yet
post-racial. The national mirror is slow to reflect social transformations,
until the population is awash with a sea change in its demographics. Yet
the country is now experiencing a profound transition, in which national
identity has to “catch up” with its reconfigured multicultural and reli-
giously plural social reality, both here at home and across the world. It
will take time to erase race as an essentialist social construct, reared on
the shaky foundations of superficial racial characteristics, such as skin
color, in which biological difference is a figment (i.e. a pigment) of the
imagination. Egalitarianism continues to act as an equalizing force, and
religions are increasingly playing a role in overcoming the problems that
historically resulted from the influence of racial doctrines, as religiously
rationalized.
An operative thesis may be ventured in the chapters to follow: Over
the course of American history, religious myths and visions of America
tend to reflect an ever-changing American civil society, whether as a func-
tion of its social evolution or as a catalyst of it. That is to say, in the survey
of religions undertaken in this book, the following operative hypothesis
may be tested: Religions remythologize America. And further: Religions re-
envision America.

America: Nation and Notion 17
Chapter 1 Update: Reviews and Revisions
Religious Myths and Visions of America has many strengths. The author
has defended his thesis with solid research. He has also made an original
contribution to American studies.
— Richard G. Kyle
Tabor College (2011)
Figure 1.2. John Gast’s “American Progress” (1872)—published as the frontispiece
in Crofutt’s Trans-Continental Tourist Guide in 1874—iconically captures the spirit
of “Manifest Destiny.” (See Chapter 3 below.) Oil-on-canvas original at the Autry
National Center, Los Angeles. “This picture was the design of the publisher,” George
Crofutt boasted, adding this pitch:
Is there a home, from the miner’s humble cabin to the stately marble mansion of the
capitalist, that can afford to be without this GREAT National picture, which illustrates
in the most artistic manner all the gigantic results of American brains and hands? Who
would not have such a beautiful token to remind them of our country’s grandeur and
enterprise, which have caused the mighty wilderness to blossom like the rose!
(Public domain. Library of Congress. http://www.loc.gov/pictures/item/97507547/.
Accessed January 12, 2015.)

18 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
This book, therefore, is not simply an analysis of ten different myths
and visions of America but also provides an ideological map that
accounts for faith-based understandings and actions in relation to
the American presence globally. In this sense, this volume may be of
interest to readers involved not only in Religious Studies, but also in
Political Science, History, Intellectual History, American Studies, and
Cultural Studies.
— Irén E. Annus,
University of Szeged, Hungary (2012)50
Time to add a new chapter—on the “Christian Right”—and to update the
existing ones.
Since 2009, when this book was first published, the reviews have been
mostly positive. Two reviews stand out—I suppose because the reviewers
considered Religious Myths and Visions of America to be outstanding. So, while
admittedly self-serving, the first review that I would like to cite is by Irén E.
Annus, an Americanist at the University of Szeged, Hungary:
This book, therefore, is not simply an analysis of ten different myths and
visions of America but also provides an ideological map that accounts
for faith-based understandings and actions in relation to the American
presence globally. In this sense, this volume may be of interest to readers
involved not only in Religious Studies, but also in Political Science, His-
tory, Intellectual History, American Studies, and Cultural Studies. . . . In
the course of the detailed and well-documented analysis of individual reli-
gions, Buck reveals a highly elaborate and in-depth picture of the various
beliefs, which is indeed impressive.51
Even highly positive book reviews come with a criticism. (Academic
journals, as a rule, typically require their reviewers include critical com-
ments—the bad as well as the good—for the purposes of honest appraisal
for a well-balanced and, therefore, a credible book review.) Professor Annus
goes on to express one important reservation about Religious Myths and
Visions of America:
He argues that the original myth and vision of America as a nation was
captured by the Protestant notion of manifest destiny. This has been chal-
lenged by the other faiths he examines “as responses to the challenges
with pluralism and race, in which minority faiths—America’s alternative
religions—implicitly seek to transcend the legacy of Puritanism in shaping
America’s self-image” (221–22). It is these alternative understandings, he
reasons, that have transformed the idea of manifest destiny into Amer-
ica’s common destiny, an idea which, however appealing it may sound,

America: Nation and Notion 19
is not entirely convincing. Nevertheless, the book is overall a fresh and
stimulating cultural reading of some of America’s religions and the com-
plex ways in which their followers make sense of and act in the world.52
What Professor Annus found to be “not entirely convincing” is the thesis
captured in the book’s subtitle: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World
Role. I agree that that subtitle is overly ambitious, and therefore overstated.
To be fair, it is true that the minority religions surveyed in this book have,
in a certain sense, each offered a fresh perspective on America’s role in the
world today. To the extent that each and every such minority religious vision
of America clearly represents a departure from the Protestant “master of
myth” of America (harking back to the Puritans), then it is fair to say that
each alternative perspective on America, practically by definition, is intrin-
sically a redefinition of America’s perceived place among the nations. What
this subtitle does is to somewhat sensationalize this very fact by implying
that the minority faiths have redefined America’s world rule extrinsically.
Yet, I must admit, there is no clear evidence of any such direct influence.
And so, without Professor Annus having gone so far as to make an
explicit recommendation, I have decided to change the title to God & Apple
Pie. The original subtitle was not my first choice, anyway. Truth be told, it
was the marketing guru at ABC-CLIO who rejected God & Apple Pie and rec-
ommended How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role, from among
several others that I had proposed.
So now you know the rest of the story. The choice of the original subtitle
was a marketing decision. Of course, I completed the manuscript with that
“thesis” in mind. I took the “ball” (i.e. ABC-CLIO’s recommended subtitle)
and ran with it.
Now, forewarned and forearmed by these prefatory remarks, I hope that
the reader will understand and appreciate what I mean by such terms as
“redefine,” “remythologize,” “re-envision,” etc. I certainly hope that the
new title, God & Apple Pie, will not only be less problematic (if problematic
at all), but will prove advantageous for marketing purposes. After all, the
point of writing a book is to have it read. If it sells well, all the better!
The other highly positive review came with a recommendation, which
has also been accepted and implemented in this revised edition of Religious
Myths and Visions of America. The reviewer is Richard G. Kyle, professor
emeritus of Tabor College. He writes:
Religious Myths and Visions of America has many strengths. The author has
defended his thesis with solid research. He has also made an original con-
tribution to American studies. Even so, I have two criticisms. The first
relates to style. Buck resorts to quote after quote and most are lengthy
and off-set. This hinders the readability of the book. The second criticism
pertains to substance. The author correctly notes the Puritan impact on

20 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
the Protestant view of America, namely, setting the tone. He also rightly
mentions the influence of civil religion. However, he limits the impact
largely to mainline Protestantism. Currently, the greatest influence of
Puritanism may be on evangelical Protestantism, especially the Religious
Right. Evangelicals evidence a conflicting view of America. On one hand,
they push American “exceptionalism” and have “sacralized” many aspects
of American culture (for example, its political and economic systems).
On the other hand, they lament the loss of “Christian America” largely
because of the nation’s permissive attitude toward sexual openness,
homosexuality, and abortion.53
Judging from the fact that I have quoted Richard Kyle at length, it’s obvi-
ous that I am not about to dispense with my practice of offsetting block
quotes. Even if doing so is a little bit off-putting to some readers, I continue
to do so particularly when I feel that it is important to privilege the text by
quoting it intact. Professor Kyle’s second criticism, however, is one that I
have taken to heart, by adding a new chapter, “The Christian Right’s Myths
and Visions of America.” It’s a short chapter, but an important one.
Now, in the interest of full disclosure, there was one negative review:
In truth there can be no real analysis of the actual influence of these minor-
ity myths, because there is no theoretical framework for it and nowhere to
place evidence for such influence. Some form of discourse analysis might
have provided a useful way of gauging influences, or at least a means of
analysing the interactions of myths.54
Here, the reviewer suggests no concrete method except for “some form
of discourse analysis.” Some readers may ask: “What, in God’s name, is
‘discourse analysis’?” That’s a fair question. The simplest answer I can give
is this:
Discourse analysis looks at not only what speakers say in conversation,
but what they do. In studying the underlying dynamics behind the mes-
sages that are being conveyed, analysts are looking “beyond the sentence,”
as it were. Using a theatrical performance as an analogy, discourse analysis
would then involve not only what is going on backstage, but how the audi-
ence is reacting as well.
“Discourse analysis” is a buzzword. The use of the term, “discourse analy-
sis,” practically requires its own discourse analysis. This is because it is such
a wide-ranging field. It is more multidisciplinary than it is cross-disciplinary.
Without going into detail, suffice it to say that discourse analysis involves
“frames,” “floors,” “discourse markers,” “sequence,” “social practice,”
“schema,” “script,” “contextualization inferences and cues,” “initiation,”
“intonation,” “response,” “micro-pause,” “elicitation,” “turn-taking system,”
“face work,” “interpersonal distance,” “transition relevant place,” “imposi-
tion,” “implicature,” “preference organization,” “adjacency pair system,”

America: Nation and Notion 21
“agonistic verbal interaction,” “ritual adversativeness,” “discourse strate-
gies,” “frame theory,” “micro-construction,” “dynamic speech act theory,”
“conversation analysis,” “collocation analysis,” “ethnomethodology,” “knowl-
edge structures,” “interaction theory,” “politeness theory,” “locutionary act,”
“illocutionary act,” “perlocutionary act,” “power relations” (particularly
important in critical discourse analysis), and so forth.
You get the picture. Critical discourse analysis is long and involved. It’s
complicated. But it’s quite useful. However, such close analysis is outside
the scope of this book, which is written for a popular, educated audience as
well as for academics and university students.
The reviewer does not identify which discipline, nor which method, he
would recommend. Therefore, this criticism is not really that constructive.
A somewhat empty criticism, it is more of a broadside—a scathing philippic
that, while serious and perhaps well intended, misses its target completely
for lack of ammunition. Critical discourse analysis is so vast and diverse that
to attempt to apply any particular method to the religious texts surveyed in
this book would be to swallow the subject matter by the very method itself,
if a suitable one could be found.
The term, “critical discourse,” is dynamic and continues to transform
with use. So I will not adopt a formal theoretical frame of discourse analy-
sis, because what’s important is to first “map the territory” by locating and
identifying the relevant discourses themselves—the key narratives—by way
of the survey of those minority faiths that have had something significant
to say about America, whether officially or popularly. Here, as previously
mentioned, we’re not talking about individuals within faith-communities
who made significant statements, except insofar as any of these individuals
have represented what may be considered expressive of a collective worldview
as it relates to America itself.
These are the discourses of interest. Loosely speaking, the methodol-
ogy adopted in the present book is a historical-diachronic analysis, comparing
how America, as “nation and notion,” changes over time. As an analytic
approach, a more formal comparative method (i.e., comparative discourse
analysis) may well be adopted in the future, provided there is a sufficient
interest in the discourses themselves, in the present. But, for now, let us
proceed to map, locate, and identify narratives that operate as discourses on
the idea of America, from the perspectives of “minority faiths” in relation to
the Protestant “master myth” of America.
After this lengthy introduction, the reader is now about to embark on
an adventure into the religious landscape of America, with special atten-
tion given to those religions that have official or popular collective beliefs
about America. These perspectives on America’s role in the world—and its
purpose and place in the world today—invite serious reflection on what it
means to be an American, and give pause for thought on how America can
make a spiritual difference in the world today, beyond its obvious political
power, economic influence, and military might. The “idea of America” is

22 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
both secular and religious, synthesizing to produce a “civil religion” that
evolves over time.
Notes

1. Lauren Gail Berlant, The Anatomy of National Fantasy: Hawthorne, Utopia, and
Everyday Life (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1991), 1.

2. Kevin Lewis, “Nathanael West and American Apocalyptic.” Tradition and
Postmodernity: English and American Studies and the Challenge of the Future. Pro-
ceedings of the Eighth International Conference on English and American
Literature and Language. Ed. Teresa Bela and Zygmunt Mazur (Krakow,
Poland: Jagiellonian University, 1999), 435–443 [435].

3. Conrad Cherry, “Preface to the Revised and Updated Edition.” God’s New
Israel: Religious Interpretations of American Destiny. Ed. idem. Rev. ed. (Chapel
Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1998), x.

4. James H. Moorhead, “‘God’s Right Arm’?: Minority Faiths and Protestant
Visions of America.” Minority Faiths and the American Protestant Mainstream.
Ed. Jonathan D. Sarna (Urbana/Chicago: University of Illinois Press, 1998),
335–361.

5. Donald W. White, The American Century: The Rise and Decline of the United
States as a World Power (New Haven and London: Yale University Press,
1996), 1.

6. Jonathan D. Sarna, “The Cult of Synthesis in American Jewish Culture.”
Jewish Social Studies 5.1/2 (1998/1999): 52–79.

7. Malcolm Bull and Keith Lockhart, Seeking a Sanctuary: Seventh-day Adventism
and the American Dream (Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press, 2006),
254. The author thanks Andrew Rippin for this reference. Rippin to author,
e-mail dated August 13, 2008.

8. J. N. Andrews, qtd. in Bull and Lockhart, Seeking a Sanctuary: Seventh-day
Adventism and the American Dream, 57.

9. Dawn L. Hutchinson, “Antiquity and Social Reform: Religious Experience
in the Unification Church, Feminist Wicca and the Nation of Yahweh”
(Ph.D. dissertation: Florida State University, 2007).

10. Ibid., 4.

11. Ibid., 54.

12. Ibid., 4.

13. Ibid., 160–161.

14. Richard T. Hughes, Myths America Lives By. Foreword by Robert N. Bellah
(Champaign: University of Illinois Press, 2004).

15. Robert N. Bellah, “Foreword.” Hughes, Myths America Lives By, xii.

16. Michael Angrosino, “Civil Religion Redux.” Anthropological Quarterly 75.2
(2002): 239–267 [241].

17. Peter D. Salins, Assimilation, American Style (New York: Basic Books, 1997),
102.

18. Annalise E. Glauz Todrank, “Race, Religion, or Ethnicity?: Situating Jews in
the American Scene.” Religion Compass 8 (2014): 303–316 [313, n.1].

America: Nation and Notion 23

19. James H. Moorhead, “The American Israel: Protestant Tribalism and Uni-
versal Mission.” Many Are Chosen: Divine Election and Western Nationalism.
Ed. William R. Hutchison and Hartmut Lehmann (Philadelphia: Fortress
Press, 1994), 145–166.

20. John O’Sullivan, “America’s Identity Crisis.” National Review 46 (November
21, 1994): 36–45 [36]; Robert J. Scholnick, “Extermination and Democracy:
O’Sullivan, the Democratic Review, and Empire, 1837–1840.” American Peri-
odicals: A Journal of History, Criticism, and Bibliography 15.2 (2005): 123–141.

21. Dean R. Hoge, “Theological Views of America among Protestants.” Socio-
logical Analysis 37.2 (1976): 127–139 [127].

22. Ibid., 127.

23. White, The American Century: The Rise and Decline of the United States as a
World Power, 13; Bruce Kuklick, “Myth and Symbol in American Studies.”
American Quarterly 24 (October 1972): 435–450.

24. Susan-Mary Grant, “Making History: Myth and the Construction of Ameri-
can Nationhood.” Myths and Nationhood. Ed. Geoffrey Hosking and George
Schöpflin (New York: Routledge, 1997), 88–106.

25. Sacvan Bercovitch, The Rites of Assent: Transformations in the Symbolic Con-
struction of America (New York: Routledge, 1993).

26. Barbara-Ann J. Rieffer, “Religion and Nationalism: Understanding the Con-
sequences of a Complex Relationship.” Ethnicities 3.2 (2003): 215–242 [225].

27. Ibid., 225.

28. Richard Slotkin, “Myth and the Production of History.” Ideology and Clas-
sic American Literature. Ed. Sacvan Bercovitch and Myra Jehlen (Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1986), 70–90 [70].

29. George Schöpflin. “The Functions of Myth and a Taxonomy of Myths.”
Myths and Nationhood. Ed. Geoffrey Hosking and George Schöpflin (New
York: Routledge, 1997), 19–35.

30. Ibid., 35.

31. Mary Fulbrook, “Myth-making and National Identity: The Case of the
G.D.R.” Myths and Nationhood, 72–87 [73].

32. Anthony D. Smith, “Ethnic Election and National Destiny: Some Religious
Origins of Nationalist Ideals.” Nations and Nationalism 5.3 (1999): 331–355
[332].

33. William Doty, Mythography: The Study of Myths and Rituals (Tuscaloosa: Uni-
versity of Alabama Press, 2000), 132.

34. Anthony D. Smith, “The ‘Sacred’ Dimension of Nationalism.” Millennium:
Journal of International Studies 29.3 (2000): 791–814.

35. Smith, “Ethnic Election and National Destiny,” 332.

36. Susan-Mary Grant, “Making History: Myth and the Construction of Ameri-
can Nationhood.” Myths and Nationhood, 88–106.

37. See Sacvan Bercovitch, “The Myth of America.” Puritan Origins of the Ameri-
can Self (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1986), 136–186; Moorhead,
“The American Israel.”

38. Robert N. Bellah, “Civil Religion in America.” Special Issue: Religion in
America. Dædalus: Journal of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences 96.1
(Winter 1967): 1–21; reprinted in idem, Beyond Belief: Essays on Religion in a
Post-Traditionalist World (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1991).

24 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America

39. Dean Hoge, “Theological Views of America among Protestants.” Sociologi-
cal Analysis 37.2 (1976): 127–139 [128].

40. Ibid., 128.

41. Ibid., 128.

42. Ibid., 128.

43. Ibid., 128.

44. Ibid., 128.

45. John L. O’Sullivan coined “Manifest Destiny” in “The Great Nation of Futu-
rity.” The United States Democratic Review 6.23 (November 1839): 426–430.

46. Moorhead, “‘God’s Right Arm’?: Minority Faiths and Protestant Visions of
America,” 356.

47. David W. Wills, “The Central Themes of American Religious History: Plu-
ralism, Puritanism, and the Encounter of Black and White.” Religion and
Intellectual Life 5 (1987): 30–41.

48. Paul Harvey, “‘A Servant of Servants Shall He Be’: The Construction of
Race in American Religious Mythologies.” Religion and the Creation of Race
and Ethnicity: An Introduction (New York: New York University Press, 2003),
13–27 [14]. Emphasis in original.

49. Richard Kyle, Review of Religious Myths and Visions of America. Journal of
American History 98.1 (June 2011): 279–280.

50. Irén E. Annus, Review of Religious Myths and Visions of America. Nova Reli-
gio: The Journal of Alternative and Emergent Religions 15.3 (February 2012):
139–141 [140]

51. Annus, Review of Religious Myths and Visions of America, 140–141.

52. Annus, Review of Religious Myths and Visions of America, 140–141.

53. Richard Kyle, Review of Religious Myths and Visions of America. Journal of
American History 98.1 (June 2011): 279–280.

54. Daniel Grolin, Review of Religious Myths and Visions of America. Baha’i Studies
Review 17 (2011): 195–197 [196].

Figure 2.1. Authorized by the Native American $1 Coin Act (Public Law 110-82), the
United States Mint issued its “2010 Native American $1 Coin,” commemorating the
Iroquois “Government—The Great Tree of Peace.” The reverse design features an
image of the wampum “Hiawatha Belt” around five arrows bound together. Inscrip-
tions: “Haudenosaunee” and “Great Law of Peace.” From the official U.S. Mint
description:
The Haudenosaunee Confederation, also known as the Iroquois Confederacy of upstate
New York, was remarkable for being founded by 2 historic figures, the Peacemaker and
his Onondaga spokesman, Hiawatha, who spent years preaching the need for a league.
(Public domain. Image of currency.)

Chapter 2
Native American Myths
and Visions of America
A voluntary Union entered into by the Colonies themselves, I think, would
be preferable to one impos’d by [the British] Parliament. . . . It would be a
very strange Thing, if Six Nations [the Iroquois Confederacy] of ignorant
Savages should be capable of forming a Scheme for such an Union [of the
American colonies], and be able to execute it in such a Manner, as that
it has subsisted Ages, and appears indissoluble; and yet that a like Union
should be impracticable for ten or a Dozen English Colonies, to whom it is
more necessary, and must be more advantageous; and who cannot be sup-
posed to want an equal Understanding of their Interests.
—Benjamin Franklin (1750)1
Benjamin Franklin was right: the Iroquois Confederacy was a worthy
model for America.
Franklin refers to the “Six Nations,” the most well-known New World
democracy prior to European “contact.” The Six Nations was a consensus-
based system of governance, and therefore democratic. The founding nations
were five: Oneidas, Mohawks, Onondagas, Cayugas, and Senecas. Later,
between 1710 and 1735, the Tuscaroras joined as the sixth full nation of the
league. In Benjamin Franklin’s day, the confederacy was known (and is still
known today) as the “Six Nations.” More were adopted into the league as
incorporated nations, according to Barbara Mann: the Andastes (the Cones-
togas), the Conoys (Piscataways), the Delawares (Lenni Lenapes), the Eries
(the Long-tailed Cat (or Lynx) Nation), the Honniasonts, the Kah-Kwahs,
the Mahicans, the Munsees, the Nanticokes, the Neutrals (Wyandots of
Canada, miscalled “Hurons” by the French), the Saponis, the Squawkihaws,
the Susquehannocks, the Tutelos, the Wappingers, the Wenros (or Wen-
ronhronons), the Wyandots (or Ywendats), and the Wyomings.2
The original “Five Nations” alliance was established by Deganawida
(a.k.a. the “Peacemaker”). Whether this happened during the eclipse of

28 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
1142 or 14513 will be discussed further in this chapter. The Peacemaker
was assisted by Hiawatha and Jigonsaseh (a.k.a. the “Mother of Nations”
and the “Peace Queen”).4 The traditions surrounding the diplomacy and
statesmanship of this “Peace Trio” (Deganawida, Hiawatha and Jigonsaseh)
are legendary—literally. In other words, just as the Iroquois Confederacy
was historical, so were its founders.
Among the other “firsts” attributable to Native Americans were the first
visions of America—long before this land was called “America.” Among the
Iroquois (or Haudenosaunee),5 America, prior to European contact, was
known as “Turtle’s Back” or “Turtle Island.” According to the Iroquois ori-
gin story, the world took shape on a gigantic turtle’s back, when a great
Snapping Turtle offered his carapace, bearing the Earth above water, as
he swam. The Haudenosaunee myths, legends and visions of America are
as representative of Native American and Native Canadian worldviews as
they are preeminent. They are also arguably foundational, in the sense that
Iroquois civilization gave rise to a New World democracy that evidently
influenced the formation of the United States of America.
The Turtle Island Myth and the Myth of “Mother Earth”
Before America became “America,” one of the original names for North
America was “Turtle Island.” Originally, “Turtle Island” probably desig-
nated the region of the Northeast United States and contiguous territories
in nearby Canada, and later came to represent all of North America. While
the geographical reference is real, the name itself, “Turtle Island,” is mythi-
cal. Today, the myth of Turtle Island is universally familiar to all Native
Americans.
“Turtle Island” is an Edenic narrative about the origin of a sacred land,
whether part or all of North America. A standard Eastern Woodland cre-
ation myth, the story of Turtle Island is the Iroquois’ foundation myth. It is
“history” in the form of a “story.” It is a Haudenosaunee origin story—and
perhaps the original religious myth of America. It has been a widespread
myth practically from its inception. Historically, the basic elements of this
myth are common to the Iroquois and Algonquin Nations of the Northeast,
among others, such as the Tuskegee and Blackfoot, as well as the Inuit and
the Athabascans of the Arctic and the Far North.
The Turtle Island myth is a variation of what anthropologists have termed
“the Earth Diver Creation” myth, found throughout the eastern region of
North America and even in California. The story of the Earth Diver is a
common theme in North American Indian creation mythology, in which
land is first formed from a mere handful of mud taken from the ocean floor
by a heroic animal spirit that must dive to great depths for it. After the ani-
mal spirit succeeds in extracting this mud from the sea bed, the sediment
itself is transformed into an island—land that emerges from the primordial

Native American Myths and Visions of America 29
deep. In an article that is now considered a classic, Gladys A. Reichard has
provided an analysis and a study of the diffusion and distribution of the
Earth Diver myth. She cites documented versions of this myth from the
ethnographies of a considerable range of Indian nations.6
Of all of these variations on the same basic myth, the Iroquois myth of
Turtle Island itself exists in some 25 versions. These disparate traditions,
harmonious in their core essentials, are authoritatively described by Bar-
bara Mann.7 These versions, notwithstanding their variants, share a core
of nine essential elements: (1) Sky Woman, who dwells in the Sky World,
becomes pregnant; (2) the Tree of Light, the axis mundis of the Sky World is
uprooted; (3) Sky Woman falls through the gaping hole left by the uprooted
“Tooth” tree, plummets through the vasty space, and lands on the back
of a giant Tortoise, swimming atop the primal sea, her fall cushioned by
birds; (4) after taking council, the animal spirits dive to wrest mud from
the ocean floor, and the precious sediment is brought to the surface; (5)
this generative soil is then transplanted on Turtle’s back, and burgeons into
a vast island; (6) Sky Woman’s daughter begets Twins, the older Sapling
(born before his twin brother) and younger Flint (who kills his mother in
parturition); (7) as an Iroquois culture hero, Sapling liberates animals pent
up by Flint and then secures corn; (8) Sapling and jealous Flint engage in
a cosmic duel, an archetypal battle fought with deadly weapons—rushes or
maize versus flint or antler; and, finally (9) Sapling vanquishes Flint, who is
banished, while Sky Woman and Sapling return to the Sky World, promising
to return on the last day of the world.8 The first five elements of the core
narrative may be summarized in more detail as follows.
(1) The Sky World: The original forebears of the Iroquois were the sky
People. They dwelled in Karionake, “The Place in the Sky,” otherwise known
as the Sky World. The Sky World was a physical place that floated among the
stars. The Sky World was the celestial prototype of Iroquoia, with the same
geography. The familiar flora and fauna had their spiritual counterparts in
the Sky World. There is a good reason for this: “The bedrock assumption of
eastern cultures is that everything that exists, exists by halves. The cosmos
is seen as naturally dividing into its two, complementary parts—Sky and
Earth—which interact for harmony.”9 As above, so below.
There may be another principle at work in this myth as well. Consider
the fact that the social order of the Sky World greatly resembled later Iro-
quois society.10 Here, one clearly sees cosmogony as sociogony—that is, the
Iroquois creation cycle is not so much an account of the creation of the
physical world as it is an account of the establishment of Iroquois society,
of its folkways and social mores. This essential function of Iroquois myth is
noted by William Nelson Fenton: “The great cosmological myth spells out
the duties that each was assigned to perform for the benefit of humankind;
it tells how the first human beings on earth learned to adjust to the situa-
tion as they found it, and how they responded to crises later on.”11 Fenton’s
insight here is specific to the myth itself; it is not generalized to all myth.

30 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
But, on comparative grounds, the function of cosmogony as sociogony can
be seen as fairly universal. In other words, accounts of the creation of the
physical world from primeval chaos are representations of the functioning
of ordered societies as bulwarks against social chaos.
(2) Uprooting of the Tree of Light: In the center of the Sky World was a
sacred Tree. Atop the tree was a luminous orb that gave off light, illumining
the Sky World. In the Onondaga version, this tree was called “Tooth,” possi-
bly alluding to the yellow dog-tooth violet. This light was soft, not harsh. Its
light was not bright, but resembling twilight, with the half-light of dawn or
dusk. The sacred Councils of the Sky World were held beneath the branches
of Tooth. The “Tooth” tree is uprooted, leaving a gaping hole in the sky.
(3) Sky Woman Falls to Earth: Through this giant hole, Sky Woman cas-
cades through the interspace to the world below. While Sky Woman was
hurtling through the abyss toward the primeval sea below, the Sky People
set Tooth, the Tree of Light, back into its place. Plunging precipitously with-
out protection, Sky Woman was in great peril. As she hurtled through the
mid-space between earth and sky, Heron and Loon came to her rescue. By
interlocking their wings, they nestled Sky Woman in their feathery embrace
and gently carried her as she descended to the world below. However, since
that world was covered in water, there was no place to live, no land on
which to hunt or cultivate. Without intervention, Sky Woman would not be
able to survive.
(4) Animals Dive to Bring Earth to the Surface: Meanwhile, a giant turtle
swam the primal seas. Alive to the danger that Sky Woman faced, the Great
Tortoise summoned the Elder Animals to an emergency council. He offered
his carapace as a dwelling place for Sky Woman. Among the Elder Ani-
mals, the valiant few who would exert themselves in their quest to save
Sky Woman included Muskrat, Otter, Toad, and/or Beaver. They each made
their dives in the watery depths. Rather than diving for pearls, they were
diving for grains of dirt. In order to bring up mud from the ocean floor, each
of these heroic spirits risked his life. In the Mohawk version, only Muskrat
succeeded in retrieving a handful of this precious mud. But, in doing so,
Muskrat sacrificed his life.
(5) Earth Established on Turtle’s Back: The mud was then placed on Tur-
tle’s back. This spot of earth now in place, Heron and Loon could now set
Sky Woman safely on her new abode below. Magically (that is, mythically),
wherever Sky Woman ventured, the earth would keep spreading out before
her, opening new vistas far and wide. As the land kept expanding, so every
kind of plant sprouted up before her as well. This is how Turtle Island came
into being.
Of the Founding Fathers, Thomas Jefferson (1743–1826), third president
of the United States (1801–1809), may have been aware of the original
vision of America as Turtle Island. On January 10, 1802, Thomas Jefferson
told a delegation of Wyandot, Ottawa, Chippewa, Powtewatamie, and Sha-
wanese chiefs: “Your blood will mix with ours, and will spread, with ours,

Native American Myths and Visions of America 31
over this great island.”12 The expression, “this great island” was not an
appellation for America current among Euro-Americans. In other words,
it was definitely not a widely used euphemism for the United States. One
must look elsewhere for the meaning of this term and for whatever allu-
sions it likely evoked in the minds of the audience. Here, Thomas Jefferson,
in ostensibly encouraging fraternity (and even intermarriage) between the
Creeks and the Euro-Americans, was evidently referring to Turtle Island.
While this cannot be proven, it remains an attractive hypothesis. To this
day, in fact, virtually all Iroquois still call North America “Turtle Island,”
as do most, if not all, Indian Nations. While certainly not the case in Jef-
ferson’s day, the Turtle Island myth is one of the best known of all Native
American myths. And the myth of Turtle Island is closely aligned with the
concept of “Mother Earth.”
Since this myth depicts the creation of earth, or at least the creation of an
inhabitable land, one might be tempted to regard Sky Woman as an incarna-
tion of “Mother Earth,” who is described in the next section of this chapter.
However, Sky Woman is not the same as Mother Earth. Perhaps she might
be thought of as the mother of Mother Earth. This would be a logical way to
harmonize what are really two disparate myths. Suffice it to say that myths
lead independent lives. They can inhabit the same spiritual universe. Each
myth is the bearer of its own moral and social truths. And so the Myth of
“Mother Earth” really bears no formal relation with the myth of the Sky
Woman. Sky Woman is Edenic. Mother Earth is environmentalist.
The Myth of “Mother Earth”
The reverential idea of “Mother Earth” has become increasingly familiar in
American popular culture. “Mother Earth” embodies what might be called
a “gospel of environmentalism.” It is a gospel without a narrative—mor-
ally rich and ethically sound—but without discernible roots in pre-Colonial
American Indian mythology. “Mother Earth” is not a person but a sym-
bol. She is Earth personified—the “spirit” or animus of our physical world
today. Furthermore, “Mother Earth” is a myth without a story—and more
metaphor than myth. The essence of this myth is that Planet Earth is our
collective mother. Mother Earth transcends America itself. Mother Earth
has geographic boundaries, but no national borders. It is one country. Just
as we should respect our own mothers, by virtue of the fact that our moth-
ers gave birth, nourished, protected, and raised us, so also should one
respect Mother Earth, who, after all, is the source of being and sustainer of
all life on earth.
A scholarly controversy has been raging over over whether the myth of
Mother Earth—ostensibly a venerable, pan-Indian belief—is ancient or mod-
ern. Proponents of the modern origins of the myth argue that the Mother
Earth myth appears to be a relatively recent invention promulgated by

32 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
scholars, popularized by the American press, and further promoted by Native
Americans themselves. In a quest to find the historical roots of the belief in
Mother Earth, anthropologist Sam D. Gill searched over 1,300 ethnographic
records. He found only three sources for a Native American belief in a Mother
Earth goddess. These were the sources from which the concept of Mother
Earth was largely “invented” as the product of promoting and popularizing
a once-obscure idea: “It seems that Mother Earth as a major goddess of the
Indians of North America is a reality, but that she has become so only during
the twentieth century.”13 Thus “Mother Earth” is more of a myth about Native
Americans than it is a myth by Native Americans. If Gill is right, then here is
a dramatic example of American religious mythmaking, suggesting that the
promotion of Mother Earth is a post-contact phenomenon.14
Yet there is evidence that Native Americans anciently regarded the earth
as a common mother. Consider, for instance, this statement by Iroquois
Chief Cornstalk who, on June 1, 1776, remarked: “Our white Brethren who
have grown out this same Ground with ourselves—for this Big Island being
our common Mother, we and they are like one Flesh and Blood.”15 A reply,
in kind, came from the American Commissioners for Indian Affairs to Dela-
wares, Senecas, Munsees, and Mingos:
We are sprung from one common Mother, we were all born in this big
Island; we earnestly wish to repose under the same Tree of Peace with you;
we request to live in Friendship with all the Indians in the Woods. . . .
We call God to Witness, that we desire nothing more ardently than that
the white and red Inhabitants of this big Island should cultivate the
most Brotherly affection, and be united in the firmest bands of Love and
friendship.16
What is remarkable here, from both Chief Cornstalk and the American
Commissioners for Indian Affairs, is the common vocabulary, evidencing
the interrelationship—indeed, the very confluence—of the myths of “Turtle
Island,” “Mother Earth,” and “Great Tree,” the last myth being the topic of
the next section of this chapter. Citing these and other sources, Vine Delo-
ria, effectively rebuts Sam Gill’s argument:
As a by-product of researching Indian treaties, I have come up with
numerous references to Mother Earth. Of course, I did not find these ref-
erences in ethnographic materials—I found them in minutes of councils
and treaty negotiations . . . Indians were not sitting around in seminar
rooms articulating a nature philosophy for the benefit of non-Indian stu-
dents, after all. They were trying to save their lands from exploitation and
expropriation.17
Deloria hastens to add that an abundance of other primary sources con-
firm the widespread, if not universal, indigenous belief in Mother Earth, but

Native American Myths and Visions of America 33
“I am not going to reveal them for fear that Gill will use them in a revised
version of his book and make even worse arguments to prove that white
men originated them.”18 Bruce Johansen adds his own thunder to Deloria’s
lightning.19
The next section transitions from the myths of “Turtle Island” and
“Mother Earth” to the legend of Deganawida. Here, the distinction between
“myth” and “legend” is that myth is ahistorical, while legend presumably
has a historical kernel, overlaid by mythical embellishments.
The Deganawida Legend
Traditional Iroquois history is divided into three epochs represented by
three epic narratives: (1) the myth of Sky Woman; (2) the legend of Degana-
wida; and (3) the history of Handsome Lake, the late eighteenth- and early
nineteenth-century Seneca prophet. “Deganawida” is a name traditionally
considered too sacred to pronounce. It’s not as though the name is ineffable,
as in the Jewish sacred name, called by scholars as the “Tetragrammaton,”
referring to the four letters, in Hebrew, YHWH, that represent one name
of God in Jewish (and Christian) tradition. “Deganawida” is fine in printed
form. But it should not be spoken, as a sign of profound respect. Native
Americans customarily refer to this great statesman and prophet as “the
Peacemaker.” Deganawida is a legendary, yet historical figure, memorialized
in traditions held to be sacred by indigenous peoples among the Iroquois
Nations—and, generally, among Native Americans and Native Canadians
today. The Iroquois were aboriginal inhabitants of nearly all of New York
State, part of Pennsylvania, as well as the lands bordering Lakes Huron,
Erie (down to present-day central Ohio), and Ontario, and the St. Lawrence
River, in what are now parts of Ontario and Quebec in Canada.
The first epic, that of Sky Woman, was presented earlier in this chapter.
The Deganawida tradition itself is quintessentially an origin-of-government
narrative. The Deganawida epic is properly considered a “legend” in that
there is a general consensus that “the Peacemaker” was a historical figure.
While this legend exists in an estimated 24 recensions,20 the most authori-
tative version is known as Concerning the League, which is said to be the
original legend, or the most authoritative account, of the League of the
Iroquois, otherwise known as the Iroquois Confederacy. This famous pas-
sage comes from one of the versions of the Deganawida Epic, which is the
second of three grand cycles of tradition among the Iroquois:
I am Dekanawida and with the Five Nations’ Confederate Lords I plant
the Tree of the Great Peace. . . . I name the tree the Tree of the Great Long
Leaves. Under the shade of this Tree of the Great Peace we spread the soft
white feathery down of the globe thistle as seats for you, Adodarhoh, and
your cousin Lords. . . . Roots have spread out from the Tree of the Great

34 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Peace, one to the north, one to the east, one to the south and one to the
west. The name of these roots is The Great White Roots and their nature
is Peace and Strength. . . . We place at the top of the Tree of the Long
Leaves an Eagle who is able to see afar. If he sees in the distance any evil
approaching or any danger threatening he will at once warn the people of
the Confederacy.21
The Iroquois Confederacy—which began as the union of five Iroquois
Nations, to which a sixth was later added, evidently included a total of
ten nations at later points in history. The Iroquois “League of Nations”
united the Mohawks, Onondagas, Senecas, Oneidas, and Cayugas. In 1714,
the Tuscaroras were adopted and, in 1753, the Nanticokes and Tuteloes
were incorporated, expanding the League into eight Nations.22 There is evi-
dence that the Saponi and Conoy Nations were added later, enlarging the
League into ten Nations—with the Delawares being given Iroquois protec-
tion, but without formal adoption. Historian Jay Hansford Vest explains:
“Although the Haudenosaunee were never referred to as the Seven, Eight,
or Nine Nations following the admission of other nations, including the
Tuteloes and Nanticokes, it was referenced as the Six Nations after the Tus-
caroras were added to the Longhouse in 1714.”23 As previously stated at
the beginning of this chapter, the Andastes (the Conestogas), the Conoys
(Piscataways), the Delawares (Lenni Lenapes), the Eries (the Long-tailed
Cat (or Lynx) Nation), the Honniasonts, the Kah-Kwahs, the Mahicans,
the Munsees, the Nanticokes, the Neutrals (Wyandots of Canada, miscalled
“Hurons” by the French), the Saponis, the Squawkihaws, the Susquehan-
nocks, the Tutelos, the Wappingers, the Wenros (or Wenronhronons), the
Wyandots (or Ywendats), and the Wyomings were adopted into the league
as incorporated nations.24
This League was remarkable in that it was probably the New World’s first
democracy, as mentioned previously. And, if not, certainly the Confederacy
was the New World’s preeminent and most influential democracy. Its great-
est influence is said to have been its impact on the formation and structure
of American democracy itself. In scholarly parlance, this idea that American
democracy has roots in Iroquois democracy is called the “Iroquois influence
thesis.” While the Iroquois influence thesis remains controversial among
scholars, it is a widespread belief among Native Americans.
The Iroquois influence debate notwithstanding, most scholars accept
that Deganawida was historical. Huron by birth and Mohawk by adop-
tion, Deganawida was a prophet, statesman, and lawgiver who, along with
Hiawatha and Jigonsaseh, established the Iroquois “League of People of the
Longhouse” (Haudenosaunee), also known as the “Great League of Peace”
(Kaianerekowa). This League, in actual practice, was vested in a council of
50 peace chiefs, or “sachems” (a term used to distinguish these from other
chiefs). Each successor to a League chief was chosen by a “clan mother”

Native American Myths and Visions of America 35
presiding over the lineage in which the title was held. The governing coun-
cil required unanimous consent to render each of its decisions. The symbol
of the League was the Great White Pine, or White Tree of Peace, on the top
of which perched a farsighted eagle. The historicity of the League of Five
Nations is not in dispute, nor is the existence and role of Deganawida him-
self in the formation of the original Iroquois confederacy. The traditional
legend, which survives in several versions, has variations that pose no seri-
ous challenge to the unity of the narrative. Mythic elements, of course, give
the legend its charm and symbolic depth to this legend, which has a histori-
cal core.
The Peacemaker legend, in its basic form, is as follows: In ancient times,
Tarenyawagon (“The Holder of the Heavens”) saved the Five Nations from
onslaught of the stone Giants. He conquered monsters and put the world
in order. He gave laws for men to follow, taught the art of war, and pro-
vided for good fishing. Over time, the five tribes had a disagreement, and
went their separate ways. Among the ancestors a child was born to a Huron
virgin near the Bay of Quinte near Kingston, Ontario. This child was an
incarnation of Tarenyawagon, entrusted with a great mission of peace. His
first task was to cure the Iroquois of rampant cannibalism and revenge war-
fare (“mourning wars”).
Tradition holds that Deganawida was born in what became Canada—near
present-day Kingston, Ontario, on what is now the Tyendinaga Territory
on the Bay of Quinte, a place chosen by Joseph Brant for resettlement of
Mohawks who, during the American War of Independence, were allies of
the British. The sacred name “Deganawida” means “two river currents
flowing together.”25 His mother, a virgin, was told by a heavenly messenger
in a dream that the child she bore was destined to plant the Tree of Peace at
Onondaga (Syracuse, New York). On reaching manhood, Deganawida told
his mother of the mission that the Great Spirit had chosen him to under-
take, which was to bring the message of “the Good Message, the Power, the
Peace, and the Great Law” to men, to establish peace founded upon justice,
backed by force when needed to enforce law and order.
The time came for the Peacemaker to set out on his mission in a canoe,
carved from white stone. (This may be a “miracle” that was added later to
the legend as an embellishment under putative Christian influence, because
an earlier version has Deganawida traveling in a canoe made of birch.) And
so Deganawida crossed Lake Ontario. On the far shore, he set foot in the
land of the Onondagas. There he found hunters whose village had been
razed. They spoke of interminable warmongering, of the indiscriminate and
heartless slaughter of innocents, and of horrific cannibalism.
Arriving at the waterfalls on the eastern side of the river, Deganawida
encountered Jigonsaseh (“Fat Face”), the head mother of the Senecas. It
was Jigonsaseh’s practice to feed warriors, who passed by where she lived.
The Peacemaker told Jigonsaseh to stop supporting the war parties. He then

36 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
imparted to her the gospel of “the Good Message and the Power and the
Peace,” as the basis of “the Great Law” set forth in Concerning the League:
“This, then, is the reason we thank him, the one with great power, the one
who is the Creator, for that which will now move forward, the Good Mes-
sage and the Power and the Peace—the Great Law.” This was a powerful
Message, one that claimed to be divine. Jigonsaseh accepted Deganawida’s
message, and later became the Head Mother of the Haudenosaunee league
of nations. This is what happened, according to Barbara A. Mann, Ph.D.
(Native American, Ohio Bear Clan Seneca), Associate Professor, Honors
College, University of Toledo:
Knowing that he was unable to promulgate the peace by himself, the
Peacemaker sought out allies in the south, the very first of them being
that Great Woman, the Head Mother of the Cultivators. He approached
her with respect, urging her to add his message of Peace to her message of
Corn, and, after due consideration, she agreed. However, she also insisted
that he include the strong political powers of women in his Great Law. In
his turn, he agreed. The two forged an alliance, coordinating their efforts
thereafter.26
In his first missionary journey before becoming a statesman, the
Peacemaker came to one cannibal’s lodge, that of an Onondaga warrior.
Deganawida climbed the bark roof of the cannibal’s dwelling and lay,
chest down, by the smoke hole. Looking down, Deganawida’s face was
reflected on the surface of the water in the kettle below. After the canni-
bal had brewed his grisly stew of human remains, and as the warrior was
about to eat his meal from a bowl made of bark, he suddenly beheld, in
the boiling kettle, a face of striking handsomeness and serenity. Having
no clue that this face belonged to another, the cannibal thought he saw a
reflection of himself. This gave him pause for thought. On reflection, the
warrior was struck by the nobility of the visage he saw, and how brutal
was the life he had been living. Then and there, the warrior decided not
to eat his victim. In utter revulsion, the cannibal emptied the kettle. By
the fire, he brooded.
Then Deganawida climbed down, and entered the cannibal’s dwelling.
They talked. As they held converse, the Peacemaker convinced the warrior
that eating other men was evil and vile. Together, they buried the victim’s
remains. Deganawida and the warrior hunted a deer and partook of the
venison together. Deganawida then taught the warrior “the Good Message
and the Power and the Peace”—and won over his first convert. Together,
the two made plans to embark on a mission to bring the local nations into
a peaceful confederacy. Deganawida told the warrior that the Great Spirit
had ordained that antlers be worn as a sign of authority. And so the former
cannibal accepted to work alongside the Peacemaker.

Native American Myths and Visions of America 37
The greatest obstacle to the confederacy was Atotarho, chief of the
Onondagas. Powerful and primal, Atotarho was a tyrant. Hideous to behold,
Atotarho’s body had seven crooks in it. His hair seethed with serpents.
Deganawida then named his disciple, “Hiawatha” (“He Who Combs”), for
Hiawatha’s mission would be to comb the snakes out of Atotarho’s hair.
First, Deganawida, and Hiawatha successively won the allegiance of the
Mohawks, Oneidas, Cayugas, and Senecas. This is how Deganawida pre-
sented his Message:
Thereupon Tekanawita [Deganawida] stood up in the center of the gather-
ing place, and then he said: First I will answer what it means to say, “Now
it is arriving, the Good Message.” This, indeed, is what it means: When
it stops, the slaughter of your own people who live here on earth, then
everywhere peace will come about, by day and also by night, and it will
come about that as one travels around, everyone will be related . . .
Now again [?], secondly I say, “Now it is arriving, the Power,” and this
means that the different nations, all of the nations, will become just a
single one, and the Great Law will come into being, so that all now will be
related to each other, and there will come to be just a single family, and in
the future, in days to come, this family will continue on.
Now in turn, the other, my third saying, “Now it is arriving, the Peace,”
this means that everyone will become related, men and also women, and
also the young people and the children, and when all are relatives, every
nation, then there will be peace. . . . Then there will be truthfulness, and
they will uphold hope and charity, so that it is peace that will unite all of
the people, indeed, it will be as though they have but one mind, and they
are a single person with only one body and one head and one life, which
means that there will be unity. . . . When they are functioning, the Good
Message and also the Power and the Peace, these will be the principal
things everybody will live by; these will be the great values among the
people.27
The Peacemaker then led the four Nations, now united under these pow-
erful sociomoral principles, to the powerful sorcerer-chief of the Onondaga,
Atotarho. In addition to his vile appearance and tyrannical abuse of power,
Atotarho was also a cannibal. In order to transform Atotarho, Deganawida
and Hiawatha sang the Peace Hymn. As the procession reached the Onon-
daga, Deganawida exorcised Atotarho of his evil spirits. Atotarho then
accepted the Great Law of Peace (Gai Eneshah Go’ Nah). Now the Iroquois
Confederacy could finally be established. Deganawida and Hiawatha got
Atotarho to agree to be the firekeeper of the newly formed League. Where
formerly Atotarho was the principal opponent, he would now preside as its
principal chief and could wield veto power at will. Furthermore, Degana-
wida and Hiawatha designated Onondaga as the capital of the Five Nations’

38 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
territory. After enlisting Atotarho’s support, Deganawida planted the Great
Tree of Peace in what is now Syracuse, New York, thus fulfilling the dream
that was given to his mother.
That’s the “men’s version.” An alternate version of what happened is
recounted by Barbara A. Mann:
As Jigonsaseh and Peacemaker gained followers (including Hiawatha, a
formerly formidable foe), . . . only one priest obstructed their way. He
was Adodaroh [Atotarho], the deeply feared and powerful shaman of the
Onondagas, whose snake and cannibal cult had terrorized the people into
submission for many years. Now, however, even Adodaroh’s . . . once
trusted lieutenant, Hiawatha, opposed him . . .
Deeply angry, the old priest withdrew to an island that could be
approached only by canoe. Twice, the Peacemaker and Hiawatha attempted
parley, but twice the old man called up the winds to blow their canoe
back to shore. Finally, Jigonsaseh gave the pair a powerful medicine song
to calm the waters and call the ancestors. Singing her song, the Peace-
maker and Hiawatha were able to approach Adodaroh, but, instead of
killing or threatening him, they carried Jigonsaseh’s message: If he would
come over to the side of Corn and Peace, they would make him the first
chairman of the Men’s Grand Council of the League. Seeing his chance to
retain status, the wily old man accepted their proposal.
At that point, Jigonsaseh . . . sanctioned each lineage chief, putting
the horns of office on his head and announcing his election to office. . . .
Early male anthropologists heard only the men’s versions of the tradi-
tions, not realizing that there were equally important women’s versions
as well.28
There, at Onondaga, Deganawida planted the great Tree of Peace: a great
white pine with white roots extending in the four sacred directions, to guide
men everywhere who desired to trace peace to its source. Atop the Tree, he
placed the farsighted eagle, ever vigilant and watchful of any approaching
danger. Beneath the Tree of Peace, Deganawida opened a cavern into which
he cast weapons of war. This was the culmination of his mission. No mat-
ter how visionary, resourceful, and effective, Deganawida’s work was not
merely the product of enlightened statesmanship and effective diplomacy.
It was a sacred undertaking. He had achieved the sacred purpose for which
he was commissioned by the Great Spirit.
In solemn ceremony, Deganawida then placed antlers on the heads of
the 50 chiefs (sachems) representing the Five Nations. The respective
names of each of these chiefs would be passed on to the chiefs who suc-
ceeded them). Deganawida then delivered to the sachems the canons of
the Great Law, the Constitution of the Five Nations. In assessing the his-
torical and cultural significance of the legend of Deganawida, Paul A.W.
Wallace had this to say:

Native American Myths and Visions of America 39
The legend that grew up about him [Deganawida] long served as a guide
to Iroquois conduct, at home and abroad. In its various recorded versions
it now appears a strange medley of religion, mythology, constitutional law,
wisdom literature, animal lore, and folk custom. But the core of the narra-
tive, which describes the practical steps taken by Dekanahwideh [sic], the
Heavenly Messenger, to establish a firm League of Nations under the Tree
of Peace, has a grandeur of conception unsurpassed in popular tradition anywhere
in the world.29
To this day, the Confederacy is officially known as Kayanerenh-kowa (“the
Great Peace”), a term that describes its sacred purpose. The League is also
known as Kanonsionni (the “Longhouse”), a designation that describes both
its constitutional structure and its geographical extent. This Longhouse is
highly symbolic: Typically, the Iroquois longhouse is a dwelling built of sap-
lings and bark, in dimensions of some 80 to 100 feet in length. Although
each was within its own bark-partitioned section, several families of the
same lineage occupied it. At the center of the longhouse was a hearth fire.
All relatives of the extended family were under the watchful supervision of
an elder matron of the lineage. By analogy, the Five Nations took counsel
together in the sacred longhouse as though they were members of one fam-
ily. Their meetings were actuated and guided by a pervasive sense of unity.
And so it is that the social and political organization of the Five Nations is
traditionally ascribed to Deganawida.
The Iroquois Influence Thesis: Myth or History?
The “Iroquois Influence Thesis” has been advanced by several scholars—
with Donald A. Grinde and Bruce Johansen30 in the forefront—and by
segments of the popular media. As stated in the previous section, the Iro-
quois (a French name) or Six Nations (an English name) Confederacy (who
called themselves Haudenosaunee, “People of the Longhouse”) maintained
a federal league of nations for several hundred years before Europe-
ans arrived in their homeland. Their example was not lost on Benjamin
Franklin, who cited their model approvingly about the time he proposed
the Albany Plan of Union (1754), a precursor to the Articles of Confed-
eration and U.S. Constitution. This example, along with other anecdotes
that constitute evidence from which the “Iroquois influence” thesis may
be inferred or deduced, have led to a pointed debate in our own time over
their role in the evolution of democracy on a worldwide scale. Advocates
insist that this example should be studied in the context of other influ-
ences, while opponents often argue that the Iroquois are being incorrectly
advanced as a singular example. The Iroquois influence thesis holds that
the Iroquois Confederacy, founded by Deganawida, helped shape American
democracy. More to the point, the Iroquois influence thesis asserts that the

40 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
U.S. Constitution was partially modeled on the Iroquois Constitution. As
the reader might expect, this thesis has sparked a vigorous scholarly debate.
On what evidence is the Iroquois influence thesis based?
While it was the product of Constitutional Convention in 1787, the U.S.
Constitution itself evolved from earlier constitutional agreements. A key
figure in that process was Benjamin Franklin, who was greatly impressed
by the Iroquois Confederacy. Franklin’s advocacy of the League as a pro-
spective model of governance begins with a speech by an Iroquois notable,
which Franklin published. In 1742, at the council of Lancaster (Pennsyl-
vania), colonists succeeded in gaining the friendship of the Iroquois, and
agreed to treaty. Two years later, in confirming their treaty, the colonists
were advised by Canassatego, an Iroquois chief of the Six Nations and one
of the 50 sachems of the League, to unite. On Friday, July 4, 1744, in his
closing speech, Canassatego recommended that British colonists form a
union based on the League of the Iroquois:
WE have one Thing further to say, and that is, We heartily recommend
Union and a good Agreement between you our Brethren. Never disagree,
but preserve a strict Friendship for one another, and thereby you, as well
as we, will become the stronger.
OUR wise Forefathers established Union and Amity between the Five
Nations; this has made us formidable; this has given us great Weight and
Authority with our neighbouring Nations.
WE are a powerful Confederacy; and, by your observing the same Meth-
ods our wise Forefathers have taken, you will acquire fresh strength and
Power; therefore whatever befals you, never fall out one with another.31
The official name of the treaty concluded at Lancaster was A Treaty Held at
the Town of Lancaster, By the Honourable the Lieutenant Governor of the Province,
and the Honourable the Commissioners for the Province of Virginia and Maryland,
with the Indians of the Six Nations in June, 1744.32 Both the Treaty and Canas-
satego’s speech were published by Benjamin Franklin. In 1751, Franklin
wrote to James Parker, his New York City printing partner, with this com-
ment on the Iroquois League:
It would be a very strange Thing, if six Nations of Ignorant Savages should
be capable of forming a Scheme for such an Union, and be able to execute
it in such a Manner, as that it has subsisted Ages, and appears indis-
soluble; and yet that a like Union should be impracticable for ten or a
Dozen English Colonies, to whom it is more necessary, and must be more
advantageous; and who cannot be supposed to want an equal Understand-
ing of their Interests.33
Although Franklin called the Iroquois “Ignorant Savages,” let us see what
he really meant by this term:

Native American Myths and Visions of America 41
SAVAGES we call them, because their manners differ from ours, which
we think the Perfection of Civility; they think the same of theirs. . . . Hav-
ing frequent Occasions to hold public Councils, they have acquired great
Order and Decency in conducting them. . . . He that would speak, rises.
The rest observe a profound Silence. When he has finished and sits down,
they leave him five or six Minutes to recollect, that if he has omitted any-
thing he intended to say, or has anything to add, he may rise again and
deliver it. To interrupt another, even in common Conversation, is reckoned
highly indecent. How different this from the Conduct of a polite British
House of Commons, where scarce a Day passes without some Confusion
that makes the Speaker hoarse in calling to order; and how different from
the mode of Conversation in many polite Companies of Europe, where if
you do not deliver your Sentence with great Rapidity, you are cut off in the
middle of it by the impatient Loquacity of those you converse with, and
never suffer’d to finish it.34
Following the Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776, the fledgling
Republic was governed by the Articles of Confederation. It is here that the
Iroquois influence thesis finds its greatest claim, because the Articles were
based on an earlier document, known as the Albany Plan of Union. In 1754,
Benjamin Franklin formalized his 1751 recommendation to James Parker in
the “Albany Plan of Union,” which was an important precursor to the U.S.
Constitution. Franklin proposed the Albany Plan of Union as a model of
governance under which the colonies might be united.
The Albany Congress was held from June 19 to July 10, 1754. As the name
indicates, the Congress was held in Albany, New York. Benjamin Franklin
was the most influential of the delegates present. Besides Franklin’s pres-
ence and prestige, several Iroquois attended the Congress as well. Among
these was a certain “Hendrick” (known as “Tiyanoga” among the Iroquois),
who served as one of the principal representatives of the Six Nations at the
Albany Congress.
Prior to leaving Philadelphia to attend the Congress in Albany, besides
gaining the support of the leading political figures of his day, Franklin saw
the need to rally public opinion behind his Plan for Union. He published an
article, datelined Philadelphia, May 9, 1754, in his newspaper, the Pennsyl-
vania Gazette, urging the need for a union of the colonies and pointing to the
fact that “our enemies have the great advantage of being under one direc-
tion, with one council, and one purse.” This is a transparent reference to the
Iroquois Confederacy. In a historic moment in journalist history, Benjamin
Franklin illustrated the article by printing a political cartoon: a woodcut of
a snake segmented into parts, representing the colonies, with the motto
beneath: “JOIN OR DIE.” This motto, “Join or Die,” was used again to
launch the American Revolution.35
Franklin began his Plan of Union proposal with this recommendation:
“1. That the said General Government be administered by a President

42 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
General, to be appointed and Supported by the Crown; and a Grand
Council, to be Chosen by the Representatives of the People of the Sev-
eral Colonies, met in their respective Assemblies.”36 Proponents of the
Iroquois influence thesis hold that Franklin’s Plan of Union was loosely
modeled on the Iroquois Confederacy. His proposed “Grand Council” was
similar to the Iroquois Great Council, with 48 representatives, close to the
50 sachems of Iroquois. In fact, James de Lancy, acting governor of New
York, expressed to those assembled his hope that there would emerge an
agreement to form a union of states as powerful and prominent as the
Iroquois League itself.37
While Franklin’s proposal was approved by the Albany Congress, the
Albany Plan of Union was not ratified by the colonial legislatures. Thus it
never took effect. While Franklin’s Plan was not ratified, it later served as
the basis for the Articles of Confederation, which was, as mentioned earlier,
a precursor to the U.S. Constitution. Thus, the Albany Plan of Union was
a significant milestone in the evolution of the U.S. Constitution. At that
stage in the events leading up to the adoption of the Constitution, Iroquois
influence was arguably present. The debate is over just how influential that
Iroquois presence really was.
Even if the Iroquois influence thesis is a myth without historical foun-
dation, this myth has influenced the Congress of the United States of
America. Indeed, the fact that the Iroquois influence thesis has enjoyed
popular support is reflected in a Congressional resolution, passed in 1988.
On September 16, 1987, Senator Daniel Inouye (D-Hawaii) introduced
S.Con.Res. 76. On July 11, 1988, similar legislation was introduced by
Representative Morris Udall (D-Arizona) in the House of Representa-
tives as H.Con.Res. 331. On October 4, 1988, the House passed H.Con.
Res. 331—A concurrent resolution to acknowledge the contribution of the Iroquois
Confederacy of Nations to the development of the United States Constitution and
to reaffirm the continuing government-to-government relationship between Indian
tribes and the United States established in the Constitution—by a vote of 408–8.
By voice vote, the Senate agreed to H.Con.Res. 331 on October 21, 1988.
That resolution reads, in part:
Whereas the original framers of the Constitution, including, most nota-
bly, George Washington and Benjamin Franklin, are known to have
greatly admired the concepts of the six Nations of the Iroquois Confed-
eracy; Whereas, the Confederation of the original Thirteen Colonies into
one republic was influenced by the political system developed by the
Iroquois Confederacy as were many of the democratic principles which
were incorporated into the Constitution itself; . . . Resolved by the House
of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That—(1) the Congress, on the
occasion of the two hundredth anniversary of the signing of the United
States Constitution, acknowledges contribution made by the Iroquois

Native American Myths and Visions of America 43
Confederacy and other Indian Nations to the formation and develop-
ment of the United States.38
In 2007, U.S. Representative Joe Baca and U.S. Senator Daniel Inouye,
respectively, introduced H.R. 3585 and S. 1852 to the House and Senate, to
wit: Native American Heritage Day Act of 2007, “A bill to designate the Friday
after Thanksgiving of each year as ‘Native American Heritage Day’ in honor
of the achievements and contributions of Native Americans to the United
States.” This proposed legislation, in its current draft, acknowledges the
contribution of the Iroquois League of Nations. This draft resolution reads,
in part: “Congress finds that . . . the Founding Fathers based the provisions
of the Constitution on the unique system of democracy of the six Nations
of the Iroquois Confederacy, which divided powers among the branches of
government and provided for a system of checks and balances.”39
Here, to invoke the words of one historian commenting on eighteenth-
century history, “the mystique of Iroquois unity and power had taken on a
life of its own.”40 The Iroquois influence thesis has indeed taken on a life of
its own, as the Congressional resolution clearly illustrates. As one scholar
notes: “Despite the highly speculative nature of the evidence, this miscon-
ception has become a shibboleth, one which has been given even the official
imprimatur of the United States Senate (United States Congress, Senate
Resolution No. 76 [Washington, DC: U.S.G.P.O., 1988]).”41
The Iroquois influence thesis, in the estimation of one authority, “has
become a revisionist narrative about the birth of the United States.”42
The purpose of this revisionist theory is that it allows for a multicultural
understanding of how America came to be the republic that it is today.
Whether revisionist or not, the “Iroquois Influence Thesis” represents
a Native American vision of America. To the extent that the Great Spirit
had commissioned Deganawida to establish the Iroquois League, then this
revisionist vision of America has a religious dimension in addition to its
primarily secular application. And to the extent that the Iroquois influence
thesis has succeeded in gaining considerable popular support—as well as
limited support in the Academy (that is, among a minority of scholars) and
in Congress—then it has exerted its own influence on mainstream America.
To this day, the United States of America Embassy carries Bruce Johansen’s
article, “Native American Ideas of Governance and U.S. Constitution,” on
its website.43
To conclude, this chapter has treated Native American spiritual (and
actual) visions of America in four dimensions. (Native Americans do not
have formal religions, but spiritual traditions.) It is safe to say that the
myth of “Turtle Island” and “Mother Earth,” as well as the Deganawida leg-
end and the “Iroquois Influence Thesis,” have taken their rightful place in
American popular culture, in the halls of Congress, and in the ivory tower
of the Academy itself.

44 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Figure 2.2. Idealized statue of “Hiawatha,” co-founder of the Iroquois Confederacy.
Sculpture in National Park Seminary, in Silver Spring, Maryland. Photo by Jack E.
Boucher, 2001.
(Public domain. Library of Congress. See http://www.loc.gov/pictures/item/
md1503.photos.216580p/.)

Native American Myths and Visions of America 45
Chapter 2 Update: The Peacemaker’s
Message to America and the World
I am the Peacemaker and from the north I have come . . . The Creator sent
me here on earth . . . He intended everyone to have a good mind on the
earth you travel. . . . First, he intended all the people should be having
peaceful thoughts in their minds. Then love will come from that . . . And
if they do have love, then from it will come compassion . . . Each and every
one of you has the power. Whatever power you have comes from what you
have thought. Then that comes from a good mind. He intended you all to
be helping each other.
— Deganawida (c. 1150 or 1450)44
The Peacemaker’s message continues to be relevant today.
The Iroquois Confederacy is widely regarded as the oldest notable
democracy in the New World and as a prototype of the United Nations.
That recognition has become increasingly public. In 2010—a year after
the publication of the first edition of Religious Myths and Visions of America
(2009)—the United States Mint (the world’s largest coin manufacturer)
issued its “Native American $1 Coin” (as a “numismatic product” for collec-
tors). On the reverse, this handsomely executed coin of the American realm
features an image of the Hiawatha Belt, with five arrows bound together,
along with the inscriptions “Haudenosaunee” (“People of the Longhouse”)
and “Great Law of Peace.” The official description reads, in part:
The Haudenosaunee Confederation, also known as the Iroquois Confed-
eracy of upstate New York, was remarkable for being founded by 2 historic
figures, the Peacemaker and his Onondaga spokesman, Hiawatha, who
spent years preaching the need for a league. The Peacemaker sealed the
treaty by symbolically burying weapons at the foot of a Great White Pine,
or Great Tree of Peace, whose 5-needle clusters stood for the original 5
nations: Mohawk, Oneida, Onondaga, Cayuga and Seneca.45
True to its motto, “Connecting America through Coins,” the United
States Mint has drawn full public recognition of the contribution of the
Peacemaker (Deganawida) and Hiawatha, to the founding of the first great
New World democracy, well before the United States of America was estab-
lished as a country. Even from a Native American perspective (if only from
a vocal minority and not a majority), it’s now time to make the teachings of
the Peacemaker known, far and wide.
There was a dramatic instance of this back in 1992. Iroquoian ethnolo-
gist, Michael K. Foster, Curator Emeritus, Canadian Museum of Civilization,
recounts how Chief Jacob (“Jake”) Ezra Thomas (Snipe Clan) (d. 1998), a
prominent proponent and interpreter of Haudenosaunee culture, in Septem-
ber 1992, took the unprecedented step of reciting the Great Law in English

46 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
(drawing much indigenous indignation thereby), in a nine-day event on the
grounds of his home on the Six Nations Reserve near Brantford, Ontario,
which attracted national media coverage. Some 2,000 people were pres-
ent. Many were non-Iroquois, i.e., “whites.” “Jake” repeated the event in
June, 1994 (“The Great Law of Peace Recital”). Chief Thomas, responding
to criticism, offered this justification, according to Foster:
I think the white man needs to understand. It isn’t that he’s going to take
the law and use it himself. . . . They already did! The 13 colonies already
took the Great Law for their so-called Constitution. So what should we be
afraid of? . . . If they want to learn it, they have a right to. That should have
been done 500 years ago, to study and respect the Confederacy. Maybe we
wouldn’t have the problems we have today if they would have studied our
people, and [would now] understand and honor and respect [us].46
Let me take the liberty of switching to a “first-person” voice here. What
Jake Thomas is saying is quite important. It represents a radical departure
from the traditional practice of safeguarding knowledge of the Peacemaker,
which is the responsibility of the “Faithkeeper” of sacred indigenous tra-
dition. Further to Chief Jake Thomas’ perspective that increasing public
awareness of the teachings of the Peacemaker would be a good thing, in
November 2014, I submitted a 10,000-word article on Deganawida to the
American Writers series.47 At first, it was difficult to justify including Degana-
wida in the American Writers series, for the simple reason that the Peacemaker
was not a writer, as there were no books or publications in an oral culture
in that day and age. A critic may well ask: “How can Deganawida be consid-
ered a writer, when there was no writing prior to European contact?” And
further: “How can Deganawida be considered a literary figure when there
was no formal literature produced in his day and age?” My justification was
simply that Deganawida was the “author” of a sacred tradition, the fullest
and most complete version of which has been translated as Concerning the
League,48 and which may be considered of such universal significance that it
is recognized as belonging to the class of “world literature.”
Let me hasten to add that I cannot speak for Native Americans. The best
that I can do is to represent some of their perspectives, as I best understand
them. I’ve tried my best to do just that. In the process of writing on Dega-
nawida, I received valuable input from the following scholars: Barbara A.
Mann, Ph.D. (Native American, Ohio Bear Clan Seneca), Associate Profes-
sor, Honors College, University of Toledo, author of Iroquoian Women: The
Gantowisas (New York: Peter Lang Publishing, 2000, 3rd printing, 2006);
(2) Donald A. Grinde, Jr., Ph.D. (Native American, Yamassee), Profes-
sor, Department of Transnational Studies, University at Buffalo, The State
University of New York, editor and author of A Political History of Native
Americans (Thousand Oaks, CA: CQ Press/Sage, 2002 [Choice Outstand-
ing Academic Title 2003]); (3) Bruce E. Johansen, Ph.D., Jacob J. Isaacson

Native American Myths and Visions of America 47
University Research Professor, Communication and Native American Stud-
ies, University of Nebraska at Omaha, author of Encyclopedia of the American
Indian Movement (Santa Barbara, CA: ABC-CLIO/Greenwood, 2013); and
(4) Clifford F. Abbott (Linguist), Professor of Information and Computing
Science at the University of Wisconsin–Green Bay, author of Oneida Teaching
Grammar (University of Wisconsin–Green Bay, 2006). This was no warranty
against any errors on my part, for which I take full responsibility.
As I understand it, a Native American perspective on America (referred
to in Iroquois culture as “Turtle’s Island”) necessarily includes past, pres-
ent, and future considerations. The Peacemaker may be said to represent all
three Native American outlooks on America. As to the past, it’s important to
understand that the traditions surrounding Deganawida are more properly
understood as “legends” rather than “myths.” C.J. Taylor, a Mohawk artist
and author of the handsomely illustrated children’s book, Peace Walker: The
Legend of Hiawatha and Tekanawita,49 prefers the term “legend” in reference
to the Peacemaker traditions, with the understanding that a legend is based
on a historical kernel of facts, with mythic embellishments, which combine
to convey spiritual and cultural truths, as well as distant memory of a great
event in the past.
A Native American vision of America has both environmental and social
dimensions. The social dimensions are quite obvious in history, when the
Peacemaker, with Hiawatha and the Peace Queen, united the Five Nations—
one appreciation of which is worth quoting at length:
That International Relations has shown little interest in Indigenous
peoples may seem odd to readers who know something of the many well-
documented histories of Indigenous diplomacies enacted both within and
without the colonial encounter. Long predating the arrival of Europeans
in the Americas and elsewhere, networks of exchange and interaction
existed, wars were fought, and conflicts were resolved in the routine
course of relations between Indigenous peoples. For two centuries, the
Haudenosaunee Confederacy, to take but one example, stood as a para-
gon of peaceful relations between erstwhile antagonists—a concord still
unmatched in profundity and resilience by even the most celebrated of
Europe’s diplomatic triumphs.50
The Peacemaker’s significance for the present may be represented by
indigenous diplomacy, and further by The United Nations Declaration on the
Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP), adopted by the United Nations on
September 13, 2007. The Peacemaker’s legacy for the future may unfold
in future representations at the United Nations Permanent Forum on
Indigenous Issues (UNPFII) and in other international fora. Deganawida’s
principles of good governance are relevant today. Assuming that, outside
indigenous societies, the Peacemaker’s system cannot be replicated, aspects
of it can be adapted, ethically if not procedurally.

48 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
What does this mean for America? On April 17, 2008, Chief Oren Lyons,
in his speech, “Looking Toward the Seventh Generation,” at the University
of Arizona in Tucson, Arizona, said, in part:
There was a spiritual being, messenger we called “the Peacemaker” . . .
and he laid down for us the whole constitution based on peace, the prin-
ciple of peace and health, of equity, justice for the people and of unity,
the power of the good minds and the power of the collective working
together—one mind, one body, one heart, one spirit. And we’ve prospered
under that instruction over these many years . . .
When the Peacemaker finally had laid out the whole system for us, he
said, “Now I’m going to plant this great tree of peace, this great white
pine.” . . . He said, “Make your decisions on behalf of the seventh genera-
tion coming.” . . .
And when the Peacemaker was instructing the leaders so long ago, he
said, “Now into your hands I am placing the responsibility for all life in
this world.” And he meant all the trees and all the fish and all the animals
and all the medicine and all the water and everything there is, all life, and
that’s a responsibility that has kept us here all these years. That’s how
we’ve survived . . .
And so the instructions that our people had a long time ago still
reverberate.51
The Peacemaker’s message connects America with the rest of the world,
just as Turtle Island is part of Mother Earth, and is a guiding light for the
next seven generations and beyond. A parting thought: Turtle Island is real.
Artistically at least, North America has all the contours of a turtle of oceanic
proportions. Imagine the continent of North America as perched on the vast
shell of Turtle’s back. Now visualize North America, poised on the giant
tortoise’s carapace, as seen from the sky. From this vantage, east to west,
Florida is the right hindleg. Baja California (peninsula in Mexico) is the left
back leg. Central America (Mexico through Panama) is the tail. Alaska is
the left foreleg. Nova Scotia is the right. The Turtle’s head is left of Hud-
son Bay. Iroquois artists are fond of depicting North America in the image
of the Turtle of Haudenosuanee lore.52 All of this predates satellites, etc.
Maybe Sky Woman, in ancient times, drew a picture! Mythic as Sky Woman
and Turtle may be, their traditions convey an environmentalist message,
grounded in reality.
Permit me to make a final point. This chapter has focused on Native
American myths and visions of America, including the legendary, yet
historical prophet and statesman, Deganawida (“the Peacemaker”), who
arguably ranks among the great individuals of world history, and whose
epic (replete with laws and sacred ceremonies)—as memorialized in
the fullest published version, Concerning the League—properly belongs in
the canon of world literature, taking its rightful place among “the great

Native American Myths and Visions of America 49
books”of human culture. We considered the original inhabitants of Turtle
Island, who are really the first Americans in North America (i.e., Native
Americans, Native Canadians and the indigenous peoples of Mexico).
Let’s take a moment to reflect upon the history of hardships and injustices
perpetrated on these sovereign nations at the hands of European-Ameri-
cans, who claimed a God-given right to colonize, Christianize, and civilize
the so-called terra nullius (“empty land”), unjustly justified by the doc-
trines of discovery, of adverse possession, of conquest, and of cession.
Without going into legal and historical details, suffice it to say that this
occupation of ancestral lands was not simply the naked assertion of land
title by right, but the forcible relocation of Native Americans from their
ancestral lands, accompanied by such draconian policies as that of forced
assimilation—most notoriously implemented by government-funded and
religiously-run boarding schools across “Indian country”—whose “mis-
sion” was to “Kill the Indian to save the man,” as Richard Henry Pratt,
founder of the Carlisle Indian Industrial School at Carlisle, Pennsylvania,
in 1879, infamously said.
To the best of my knowledge, the U.S. government never apologized,
nor offered reparations, for its policies and actions taken against Native
Americans. The closest that the federal government ever came to making
such an apology took place on September 8, 2000, when Kevin Gover—the
director of the Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) and himself a Native Ameri-
can (Pawnee)—apologized on behalf of the BIA on the occasion of its 175th
anniversary. The irony here is that it took a Native American to apologize
to fellow Native Americans for what the American government had done,
pursuant to federal policies carried out by the BIA. The press reported that
some 300 tribal leaders were present, some of whom openly wept during
the apology, as it touched on such painful memories as the Trail of Tears
(summer of 1838), the Sand Creek Massacre (November 29, 1864), the
Washita River Massacre (November 27, 1868), the Wounded Knee Mas-
sacre (December 29, 1890) and a host of other tragic, and all-too-often
genocidal, episodes in American history.
Having read the text of Kevin Gover’s “Never Again” speech, I naturally
wondered if the event had been videotaped. If so, then the video would
certainly be of interest as a teaching tool for classroom use. There could
(or should) be some popular interest in this signal event, even though the
news story came and went. So I decided to request a videotape of the event.
It took awhile, but eventually the BIA did send me a copy of the videotape
on a VHS cassette. I later had the videotape digitized, and then posted it
online. The video is public domain. Then, on February 9, 2004, I offered the
first public showing of Kevin Gover’s “Never Again” apology on video. In
introducing this historic apology to the audience of students and faculty at
Michigan State University (MSU), I spoke about all the “red tape” that I had
to go through in order to obtain the video, which took persistent efforts for
approximately a year or so. (Whereupon the MSU Director of the American

50 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Indian Studies Program, Dr. Patrick LeBeau, was quick to quip: “We call
that ‘white tape’!”) Two years later, I published a journal article on Kevin
Gover’s apology on behalf of the BIA in the Wicazo Sa Review.53 I invite the
reader to close this book now, and to view the video at this very moment.54
More than taking a moment of silence, take this moment to reflect, as Kevin
Gover’s speech gives pause for thought.
Notes

1. Benjamin Franklin, “To James Parker” (Philadelphia, March 20, 1750). The
Writings of Benjamin Franklin. Vol. III, 1750–1759. Ed. Albert Henry Smyth
(New York: Macmillan, 1905), 40–45 [42].

2. Barbara A. Mann, “Affiliated Nations of the League.” Encyclopedia of the
Haudenosaunee (Iroquois Confederacy). Ed. Bruce E. Johansen and Barbara A.
Mann (Westport, CT: Greenwood Publishing, 2000), 7–10.

3. Barbara A. Mann, and Jerry L. Fields. “A Sign in the Sky: Dating the League
of the Haudenosaunee,” American Indian Culture and Research Journal 21.2
(August 1997): 105–163. See also Bruce E. Johansen, “Dating the Iroquois
Confederacy.” Akwesasne Notes 1.3/4 (Fall 1995): 62–63.

4. Barbara A. Mann, “The Lynx in Time: Haudenosaunee Women’s Traditions
and History.” American Indian Quarterly 21.3 (Summer 1997): 423–449.

5. The Haudenosaunee (“People of the Longhouse”) were called “Iroquois”
by the French.

6. Gladys A. Reichard, “Literary Types and Dissemination of Myths.” Journal of
American Folklore 34, no. 133 (July–September 1921): 269–307 [274–277].

7. Barbara A. Mann, “The First Epoch of Time: Creation Keepings,” Encyclo-
pedia of the Haudenosaunee (Iroquois Confederacy). Ed. Bruce E. Johansen and
Barbara A. Mann (Westport, CT: Greenwood Publishing, 2000), 83–97.

8. William Nelson Fenton, Chapter 2: “This Island, the World On the Turtle’s
Back.” The Great Law and the Longhouse: A Political History of the Iroquois Con-
federacy (Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 1998), 35.

9. Barbara A. Mann, “Spirits of Sky, Spirits of Earth: The Spirituality of
Chingachgook.” James Fenimore Cooper Society Miscellaneous Papers No. 17
(September 2002): 1–5.

10. Mann, “The First Epic of Time: Creation Keepings,” Encyclopedia of the
Haudenosaunee, 85.

11. Fenton, The Great Law and the Longhouse, 34.

12. Qtd. in Donald A. Grinde, Jr. and Bruce E. Johansen, Exemplar of Liberty:
Native America and the Evolution of Democracy (Los Angeles: American Indian
Studies Center, University of California, 1991).

13. Sam D. Gill, Mother Earth: An American Story (Chicago: University of Chi-
cago Press, 1987), 129.

14. Sam D. Gill, “The Academic Study of Religion.” Journal of the American Acad-
emy of Religion 62 (Winter 1994): 965–975.

15. Cornstalk, June 1, 1776. Qtd. in Richard White, The Middle Ground: Indians,
Empires, and Republics in the Great Lakes Region (Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press, 1991), 366.

Native American Myths and Visions of America 51

16. Morgan Letterbook, American Commissioners for Indian Affairs to Delawares,
Senecas, Munsees, and Mingos (Pittsburgh, 1776). Qtd. in Richard White, The
Middle Ground, 366.

17. Vine Deloria, Jr., “Comfortable Fictions and the Struggle for Turf: An Essay
Review of The Invented Indian: Cultural Fictions and Government Policies.”
Natives and Academics: Researching and Writing about American Indians. Ed.
Devon A. Mihesuah (Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 1998), 65–83
[77]. See also Ward Churchill, “A Little Matter of Genocide: Sam Gill’s
Mother Earth, Colonialism and the Appropriation of Indigenous Spiritual
Tradition in Academia.” Fantasies of the Master Race: Literature, Cinema, and
the Colonization of American Indians. Ed. M. Annette Jaimes (Monroe, ME:
Common Courage Press, 1992). 187–213.

18. Deloria, “Comfortable Fictions and the Struggle for Turf,” 78.

19. Bruce E. Johansen, “Mother Earth or Mother Lode?: Chief Sea’thl, Black
Elk, and Luther Standing Bear,” Shapers of the Great Debate on Native Ameri-
cans on Land, Spirit, and Power: A Biographical Dictionary (Westport, CT:
Greenwood Press, 2000), 143–176.

20. Christopher Vecsey, Imagine Ourselves Richly: Mythic Narratives of North Amer-
ican Indians (New York: Crossroad, 1988), 96.

21. Deganawida, qtd. in William Nelson Fenton, Parker on the Iroquois, Book III:
The Constitution of the Five Nations. Ed. W. Fenton (Syracuse, NY: Syracuse
University Press, 1968), 3:33.

22. Famed philologist, Horatio E. Hale, wrote in 1883: “The Tuscaroras were
admitted in 1714; the two other nations were received about the year
1753.” Horatio E. Hale, The Iroquois Book of Rites. 2nd ed. (Toronto: Univer-
sity of Toronto Press, 1963 [1883]), 79.

23. Jay Hansford C. Vest, “An Odyssey among the Iroquois: A History of Tutelo
Relations in New York.” American Indian Quarterly 29.1–2 (Winter–Spring
2005): 124–155 [136].

24. Mann, “Affiliated Nations of the League,” 7–10.

25. See Alice B. Kehoe, North American Indians: A Comprehensive Account. 3rd ed.
(Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall, 2006), 227.

26. Barbara A. Mann, “Jigonsaseh.” Encyclopedia of American Indian History. Ed.
Bruce E. Johansen and Barry M. Pritzker (Santa Barbara, CA: ABC-CLIO,
2008). Vol. 3: 757–759 [757].

27. Deganawida, qtd. in John Arthur Gibson, Concerning the League: The Iroquois
League Tradition as Dictated in Onondaga by John Arthur Gibson. Newly Elic-
ited, Edited and Translated by Hanni Woodbury in Collaboration with Reg Henry
and Harry Webster on the Basis of A. A. Goldenweiser’s Manuscript (Winnipeg,
Manitoba: Algonquian and Iroquoian Linguistics, 1992), 36–41.

28. Mann, “Jigonsaseh.” Encyclopedia of American Indian History, Vol. 3: 758.

29. Emphasis added. Paul A. W. Wallace, “Dekanahwideh,” in Dictionary of
Canadian Biography Online. Based on the Dictionary of Canadian Biography/
Dictionnaire biographique du Canada. Ed. John English (Toronto and Mon-
treal: University of Toronto and Université Laval, 1959).

30. Donald A. Grinde, Jr., The Iroquois and the Founding of the American Nation
(San Francisco: Indian Historian Press, 1977); Bruce E. Johansen, Forgot-
ten Founders: Benjamin Franklin, the Iroquois, and the Rationale for the American
Revolution (Ipswich, MA: Gambit, 1982); Donald A. Grinde, Jr. and Bruce

52 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
E. Johansen, Exemplar of Liberty: Native America and the Evolution of Democracy
(Los Angeles: UCLA American Indian Studies Center, 1991).

31. Benjamin Franklin, ed., Indian Treaties Printed by Benjamin Franklin, 1736–
1762. Ed. Carl Van Doren and Julian P. Boyd (Philadelphia, PA: The
Historical Society of Pennsylvania, 1938), 41–79 [78].

32. Qtd. in Timothy J. Shannon, Indians and Colonists at the Crossroads of Empire:
The Albany Congress of 1754 (Ithaca/Cooperstown: Cornell University Press
and New York State Historical Association, 2000), 103.

33. Benjamin Franklin, Not Your Usual Founding Father: Selected Readings from Ben-
jamin Franklin. Ed. Edmund S. Morgan (New Haven: Yale University Press,
2006), 175.

34. Benjamin Franklin, “Remarks Concerning the Savages of North America”
(1783). In Franklin, Not Your Usual Founding Father, 52–53.

35. See Richard B. Morris, “Benjamin Franklin’s Grand Design: The Albany
Plan of Union Might Have Made the Revolution Unnecessary.” American
Heritage Magazine 7.2 (February 1956).

36. Benjamin Franklin, “Albany Plan of Union” (1784). In Franklin, Not Your
Usual Founding Father, 5.

37. Randall G. Holcombe, “Constitutional Theory and the Constitutional His-
tory of Colonial America.” The Independent Review 3.1 (Summer 1998):
21–36. (See 27–32.)

38. See
http://www.Senate.gov/reference/resources/pdf/hconres331.pdf.
(Accessed November 10, 2014.)

39. Text available. See https://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/110/hr3585/
text.

40. Michael N. McConnell, A Country Between: The Upper Ohio Valley and Its Peo-
ples, 1724–1774 (Lincoln/London: University of Nebraska Press, 1992), 56.

41. Laurence M. Hauptman, Chapter Three, “Speculations on the Constitu-
tion.” Tribes and Tribulations: Misconceptions about American Indians and their
Histories (Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press), 27.

42. Bruce E. Johansen, “Native American Ideas of Governance and U.S. Con-
stitution.” United States of America Embassy (June 1, 2009). See http://
iipdigital.usembassy.gov/st/english/publication/2009/06/200906171108
24wrybakcuh0.5986096.html#ixzz3LvYTB44Z. (Accessed December 14,
2014.)

43. Shannon, Indians and Colonists at the Crossroads of Empire, 7.

44. Brown, Chief Robert (a.k.a. Anahalihs [“Great Vines”]), Bear Clan Chief
of the Oneida Tribe; Cultural Advisor, Sovereign Oneida Nation of Wis-
consin. The Great Law of Peace. Interlinear Oneida transcription and English
translation. Translated by Chief Brown and Clifford F. Abbott (University
of Wisconsin, Green Bay) and edited by Randy Cornelius (Tehahuko’tha).
See
http://www.oneidanation.org/uploadedFiles/Kayantlako-1-O-E-ed.
pdf and http://www.oneidanation.org/uploadedFiles/Kayantlako-2-O-E-
ed.pdf. (Accessed November 29, 2014.) 28, 30–31.

45. United States Mint, “2010 Native American $1 Coin.” See http://www.
usmint.gov/mint_programs/nativeamerican/?action=2010NADesign.
(Accessed November 14, 2014.)

46. Michael K. Foster, “Jacob Ezra Thomas: Educator and Conservator of Iro-
quois Culture.” Histories of Anthropology Annual 1 (2005): 219–245 [227].

Native American Myths and Visions of America 53

47. Christopher Buck, “Deganawida, the Peacemaker.” American Writers, Sup-
plement XXVI. Ed. Jay Parini (Farmington Hills, MI: Charles Scribner’s
Sons/The Gale Group, 2015). (Forthcoming.)

48. John Arthur Gibson, Concerning the League: The Iroquois League Tradition as
Dictated in Onondaga by John Arthur Gibson. Newly Elicited, Edited and Trans-
lated by Hanni Woodbury in Collaboration with Reg Henry and Harry Webster
on the Basis of A. A. Goldenweiser’s Manuscript (Winnipeg, Manitoba: Algon-
quian and Iroquoian Linguistics, 1992).

49. C.J. Taylor, Peace Walker: The Legend of Hiawatha and Tekanawita (Toronto:
Tundra Books, 2004).

50. J. Marshall Beier, “Forgetting, Remembering, and Finding Indigenous Peo-
ples in International Relations.” Indigenous Diplomacies. Ed. J. Marshall Beier
(New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2009). 11–27 [13].

51. Oren Lyons, “Looking Toward the Seventh Generation.” Presentation,
American Indian Studies Program, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona
(April 17, 2008). See https://nnidatabase.org/video/oren-lyons-looking-
toward-seventh-generation. (Accessed November 29, 2014.)

52. My thanks to Donald A. Grinde, Jr., Ph.D. (Native American, Yamassee),
Professor, Department of Transnational Studies, University at Buffalo, The
State University of New York, for drawing this to my attention. (Email,
December 15, 2014.)

53. Christopher Buck, “‘Never Again’: Kevin Gover’s Apology for the Bureau
of Indian Affairs.” Wicazo Sa Review: A Journal of Native American Studies 21.1
(2006): 97–126.

54. Kevin Gover, “Never Again.” For the videotape of this historic speech, see
http://christopherbuck.com/video/Kevin_Gover_BIA_Speech.mpg. (Accessed
December 21, 2014.)

Figure 3.1. Flag and cross atop Protestant church in Lansing, Michigan. (Photo cour-
tesy of David Smith.)

Chapter 3
Protestant Myths and
Visions of America
Wee shall be as a Citty upon a Hill, the Eies of all people are uppon us.
—John Winthrop (1630)1
In the beginning was the word, “America,” and the word was in the Bible,
and the word was made flesh in the Americans, this new breed of humans,
destined to build a shining city upon a hill.
—Sacvan Bercovitch (1982)2
Native American visions of America were succeeded by Protestant visions
of America.
Turtle’s Back gave way to Plymouth Rock. The founding myths of Amer-
ica, therefore, are Puritan in particular and Protestant in general. These
myths are as enduring as they were originative. Until recently, Protestant
visions held sway as the dominant “master myth” of America. Essentially,
the Protestant quest for a Christian America gave rise to a Protestant nation-
alism that united the dominant Protestant groups in a common vision of the
spiritual mission and destiny of America. Consequently, most of the later
religious visions of America may be broadly conceived as transformations of
the foundational myths of America. Subsequent, non-Protestant visions of
America typically presuppose their Protestant predecessors, if only because
they are competing ways of understanding America’s mission and destiny.
There are splendid exceptions, to be sure. And there is something decidedly
“ethnic”—even racial—about these Protestant myths of America, as Eric
Kaufmann explains:
In the case of the United States, the national ethnic group was Anglo-
American Protestant (“American”). This was the first European group to
“imagine” the territory of the United States as its homeland and traces its gene-
alogy back to New World colonists who rebelled against their mother country.

56 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
In its mind, the American nation-state, its land, its history, its mission,
and its Anglo-American people were woven into one great tapestry of the
imagination. This social construction considered the United States to be
founded by the “Americans,” who thereby had title to the land and the
mandate to mould the nation (and any immigrants who might enter it) in
their own Anglo-Saxon, Protestant self-image.3
This nativist Protestant complex of myths and symbols springs out of
shared experience and a common biblical heritage. In fact, biblical interpre-
tations were projected onto the American experience—as though the Bible,
reconditely, already had something to say about America. The Bible was a
veritable quarry from which foundational and enduring social metaphors
were hewn, and an edifice of the imagination was thereby constructed. In a
word, “America” was “God’s new Israel.” America was the Promised Land—
but only after the Canaanites of the New World (the Native Americans)
were conquered and displaced.
The Puritan Myth of America
“In the beginning was the word, and the word was with the New England Way,
and the word became ‘America’,”4 wrote the acclaimed Americanist, Sacvan
Bercovitch. The Puritans established what has come to be regarded as the
foundational myth of America. Their vision generated the greater—and per-
haps grander—Protestant master myth of America: “The Puritans provided
the scriptural basis for what we have come to call the myth of America.”5
Again mimicking the style of the prologue of the Gospel of John, Bercov-
itch characterizes the Puritan myth of America so: “In the beginning was the
word, ‘America,’ and the word was in the Bible, and the word was made flesh in the
Americans, this new breed of humans, destined to build a shining city upon a hill.”6
Here, Bercovitch’s reference to “City upon a Hill” alludes to the first defini-
tive Puritan discourse on America, “A Modell of Christian Charity” (1630),
which is John Winthrop’s speech to his fellow Puritans aboard the Arbella,
on its voyage across the Atlantic to the Massachusetts coast. This homily
was destined to become one of the most powerful, pervasive, and persistent
visions of America—the doctrine of American exceptionalism.
The Puritan myth of America was first articulated by the Honorable
John Winthrop, Esq. (1588–1649), who was appointed as the governor of
the Company of the Massachusetts Bay. The good ship, Arbella (formerly
called the Eagle) was the designated admiral of a fleet of 11 vessels that
transported the Massachusetts Bay company across the Atlantic, with the
celebrated Mayflower being among them. (The Mayflower had taken the first
band of Puritans to America ten years earlier.) The Arbella weighed 350
tons, and carried 28 guns along with its 52 men. Tuesdays and Wednesdays
were appointed to catechize the passengers. One such catechism, “A Modell

Protestant Myths and Visions of America 57
of Christian Charity” (no date, except the year 1630, is associated with it)
reads, in part:
Thus stands the case between God and us. We are entered into a Covenant
with Him for this work. We have taken out a commission. . . . For this end,
we must be knit together, in this work, as one man. We must entertain
each other in brotherly affection. We must be willing to abridge ourselves
of our superfluities, for the supply of other’s necessities. We must uphold
a familiar commerce together in all meekness, gentleness, patience, and
liberality. We must delight in each other; make other’s condition our own;
rejoice together, mourn together, labor and suffer together, always having
before our eyes our commission and community in the work, as members
of the same body. So shall we keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace.
The Lord will be our God, and delight to dwell among us, as his own
people, and will command a blessing upon us in all our ways. So that
we shall see much more of his wisdom, power, goodness and truth, than
formerly we have been acquainted with. We shall find that the God of
Israel is among us, when ten of us shall be able to resist a thousand of our
enemies; when he shall make us a praise and a glory, that men shall say
of succeeding plantations, “The Lord make it likely that of New England.”
For we must consider that we shall be as a City upon a hill. The eyes of all
people are upon us.7
Here, the “City upon a hill” alludes to one of the timeless sayings of
Jesus from the Sermon on the Mount: “Ye are the light of the world. A city
that is set on an hill cannot be hid.”8 By “City,” Winthrop meant Puritan
“society”—the salient characteristics of which may be briefly described as
follows: Puritans were bound by a solemn “Covenant” to God and by their
joint “commission” to further the commercial interests of the Massachu-
setts Bay company. Among these godly and enterprising pilgrims, the words
(in their original italics), “we keep the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace,”
were meant to foster bonds of unity, of corporate identity, and of collec-
tive purpose. In the fuller text of this homily, brief scriptural references are
made, invoking biblical precedent for what was promoted as an exemplary
Christian society. Governor Winthrop exhorts the community to aspire to
such moral nobility and material success as to excite the admiration and
envy of others, such “that we shall be as a City upon a hill. The eyes of all
people are upon us.” What was being promoted here—that the new society
strive to be exemplary spiritually and materially—was all well and good. But
this same sense of “mission”—which, in the words of the present writer,
was to colonize, Christianize, and civilize—also contained the seeds of mis-
sionary expansion by conquest.
The Puritans frequently cited or alluded to passages of scripture, as
though the Bible had foreordained the Puritan errand into the wilder-
ness of America. This was possible to accomplish through constructing an

58 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
exegetical bridge between the biblical past and the contemporary present.
Puritans used the interpretative technique of presentism, aptly named, to
apply the Israelite past to the American present. That is, the Puritans inter-
preted the Bible in the present tense. All events in the Bible were seen as
typological—that is, as forecasts of things to come, as part of a divine drama
in which the Puritans themselves played a central role.
Certain biblical motifs fall into focus here. Gary Gerstle traces “the ori-
gins of American mythology” to “biblical notions of Israelite persecution,
chosenness, and deliverance.”9 The Puritans were fleeing religious perse-
cution, were divinely elected (chosen by God) to establish an exemplary
society in a New World, and were successfully delivered to America in fur-
therance of that mission. Hence, the Puritans’ escape from persecution in
the Old World to emancipation in the New World finds its scriptural pro-
totype in the Exodus of the Hebrews from Egypt, where America becomes
the Promised Land and “God’s New Israel,” which is the title of a major
collection of mostly Protestant visions of America, skillfully anthologized
by Conrad Cherry.10 A fuller description of the Puritan vision of America—
Edenic and messianic—is epitomized by Gerstle so:
[T]he Puritans who fled religious oppression in England . . . conceived
of America as their Promised Land. Their reference to the journey of the
Israelites was hardly accidental or casual. The Puritans knew the Old
Testament well and, in the persecution of the Israelites at the hands
of Egyptian authorities, in their wanderings through the desert wilder-
ness, in their embrace of God’s covenant, and in their deliverance to
the Promised Land of Israel, the Puritans found precedents for their
own saga of suffering and redemption. Like the Israelites’ settlement of
Canaan, the Puritans’ conquest of the American wilderness would yield
a new society, a society so pure and blinding in its light, so special in
its unique covenant with God, that the rest of God’s creatures would
turn to America for salvation. The Puritans believed that they, like the
Israelites, had been chosen by God to carry a message of deliverance and
renewal to the entire world. This deep sense of mission, which would in
the 19th century come to be known as “Manifest Destiny,” has been part
of America’s self-identity ever since.11
In other words, the Puritans’ sense of mission, in time, evolved into the
American expansionist doctrine of “Manifest Destiny,” with its unabashedly
imperialist aspirations. The Puritan myth of America is really a constella-
tion of motifs, where several major sub-themes coalesce: exodus, destiny,
wilderness, and prosperity. The first two motifs—exodus and destiny—
primarily relate to the idea of the Puritan covenant, while the latter two
motifs—wilderness and prosperity—accentuate conquest and prosperity, as
Szilvia Csábi explains:

Protestant Myths and Visions of America 59
Conceptual metaphors and metonymies concerning America were often
used in Puritan literary works. The various metaphors have different
entailments, and they highlight and hide different aspects of Puritan
experiences. The principal conceptual metaphors can be clustered under
a “master metaphor”: THE SETTLEMENT OF AMERICA IS THE MOVE-
MENT OF THE JEWS FROM EGYPT TO ISRAEL. This master metaphor
can be broken down into three basic sub-metaphors—AMERICA IS THE
PROMISED LAND, AMERICA IS A WILDERNESS, and GOING TO
AMERICA IS ENACTING A BUSINESS DEAL. Several excerpts from
Puritan literary works will illustrate the coherent though flexible use of
these metaphors: they lived by certain metaphors . . . These metaphors
appear to be so powerful and appropriate in a wide variety of situations
that they are used over several generations.12
The Protestant master myth of America is inflected by the great Puritan
myth of the City on a Hill. America is a land specially favored by God. The
conceptualization of America as the Promised Land was the best known
and most elaborate Puritan metaphor for America.13 The source domain of
this conceptual metaphor is Canaan. The target domain is America.14 Szilvia
Csábi observes:
Within the metaphor AMERICA IS THE PROMISED LAND, the map-
pings are systematic: America is the Holy Land, Canaan, and New England
is the City of God; the Puritan settlers are the selected people of God.
Interestingly, the terms the city of Jerusalem, the city of God, the Prom-
ised Land and the land of Canaan can be seen as “co-referential” in the
sense that metaphorically they are equivalent or identical images of God’s
kingdom manifest on earth.15
This Puritan ideal soon proved contagious, for it excited the wider Ameri-
can imagination.
The impact of the Puritans’ vision of America on subsequent American
self-identity and political policy has been long-recognized by historians.
John Winthrop’s famous speech aboard the Arbella has had its own trajec-
tory, down to the present. This is just one recent example of what has now
come to be an accepted fact of American history: “John Winthrop’s 1630
Arbella address to his fellow Puritans has evolved over the course of Ameri-
can history into a justification for American expansionism on missionary
grounds.”16 In an important sense, the Puritan “myth of America”—the
corporate ideal of a purified community of saints visibly identified with
the national body politic—was mapped onto the consumer utopia of a “cul-
ture of abundance.”17 That is, if Americans were faithful to their spiritual
covenant and were diligent in their material endeavors (i.e., their “com-
mission”), then Providence would bless their affairs. In fine, the blending

60 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
of Puritan literary texts clearly show that Puritans thought of America as
God’s “Promised Land.”
For a local idea to catch on—and eventually to be taken up by a nation at
large—how did the Puritan vision of America excite the popular imagina-
tion? The way in which the Puritan sense of America’s mission and destiny
was transmitted to the rest of Protestant America was through what is
known as the Great Awakening (1725–1750), as Eric Kaufmann explains:
New England’s Puritan sense of election and mission, and its description
of America as a New Canaan, or promised land, slowly came to infect
the entire nation. Its vision also came to influence the American outlook
through a nation-wide religious revival known as the Great Awakening
(1725–50). John Armstrong has noted that religion provided one of the
few vehicles of mass communication in the pre-modern era and it was
religion that was largely responsible for American intercolonial inte-
gration in the eighteenth century.” Led by Jonathan Edwards, amongst
others, the Great Awakening spread like wildfire across the colonies from
New England to Georgia, and is described by some as the first instance of
American self-consciousness.18
It is from this point forward that the metaphor of America as a “redeemer
nation” takes hold.
The “Manifest Destiny” Myth
As already pointed out in Chapter 1, nearly every American student learns
of “Manifest Destiny”—the American imperial myth. Simply put, the doc-
trine of Manifest Destiny translates American exceptionalism into action.
Manifest Destiny is the doctrine that Euro-Americans had a God-given
right to conquer and colonize North America, and eventually to civilize and
imperialize Hawaii, Cuba, Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Philippines. Mani-
fest Destiny is a salient theme in American history that runs through the
Indian Wars, the U.S.–Mexican War, the Spanish-American War, the wars
across the Arc of Rimland Asia, and beyond. The term “manifest destiny”
was first coined in 1845 by John L. O’Sullivan (1813–1895), founder and
editor of the United States Magazine and Democratic Review, in this editorial:
Why, were other reasoning wanting, in favor of now elevating this ques-
tion of the reception of Texas into the Union, out of the lower region of our
past party dissensions, up to its proper level of a high and broad nation-
ality, it surely is to be found, found abundantly, in the manner in which
other nations have undertaken to intrude themselves into it, between
us and the proper parties to the case, in a spirit of hostile interference

Protestant Myths and Visions of America 61
against us, for the avowed object of thwarting our policy and hamper-
ing our power, limiting our greatness and checking the fulfillment of our
manifest destiny to overspread the continent allotted by Providence for
the free development of our yearly multiplying millions.19
This phrase was contagious and quickly attached itself to official Ameri-
can expansionist ideology. One historian comments on the tremendous
impact these words exerted: “Here was the powerful phrase that promoted
continental expansion, resulting in a doubling of American territory in four
years.”20 Soon after, the concept of Manifest Destiny was quickly introduced
to Congress.
Robert C. Winthrop (1809–1894), Representative of Massachusetts,
was a descendant of John Winthrop, first governor of Massachusetts Bay
Colony, who was met in the previous section. While John Winthrop was
the one who established the Puritan vision of America as a “City upon a
hill,” it was Robert Winthrop who first formally introduced the doctrine of
“Manifest Destiny” in Congress. Although the existing literature, reviewed
in preparation for this chapter, notes the blood relationship, the ideological
relationship has not been directly connected. This is not to suggest that the
genealogical ties by blood provides a direct genealogy of ideology, but it is
quite curious that one of the earliest theorists of Manifest Destiny was a
direct descendant of John Winthrop. This tantalizes the larger hypothesis
that Manifest Destiny represents a further development of Puritan ideology.
That is, America, after first aspiring to be a “City upon a hill,” embarked on
a conscious quest to, in effect, become “King of the hill.” A word of caution
here: although Robert C. Winthrop was the first to articulate the doctrine of
Manifest Destiny before Congress, he cites the doctrine in order to oppose
it. On January 3, 1846, in a speech in the House of Representatives, Repre-
sentative Robert C. Winthrop of Massachusetts articulated the doctrine of
Manifest Destiny, in what has been described as “first public utterance of
the phrase,”21 of “manifest destiny”—albeit with sardonic disdain:
There is one element in our title [to Oregon], however, which I confess
that I have not named, and to which I may not have done entire justice. I
mean that new revelation of right which has been designated as the right
of our manifest destiny to spread over this whole continent. It has been openly
avowed in a leading Administration journal that this, after all, is our
best and strongest title—one so clear, so pre-eminent, so indisputable,
that if Great Britain had all our other titles in addition to her own, they
would weigh nothing against it. The right of our manifest destiny! There
is a right for new chapter in the law of nations; or rather, in the special
laws of our own country; for I suppose the right to a manifest destiny to
spread will not be admitted to exist in any nation except the universal
Yankee nation!

62 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
To the extent that Winthrop has correctly represented the doctrine that
he himself opposed, this is a remarkable statement. Note the repeated use
of the word “right,” as if for rhetorical emphasis. Without explicitly saying
so, there is an elliptical sense that, by “right,” a sense of divine preroga-
tive or of a “God-given” right is meant. Also note the doctrine of American
exceptionalism is part and parcel of this doctrine. As formulated here, the
specific exception, legitimized by American exceptionalism, is that Ameri-
can domestic policy, if not foreign policy, requires and justifies a clear
deviation from the prevailing “law of nations.” To the extent that appro-
priation and annexation of Oregon to the territory of the United States is
being legitimized by advocates of Manifest Destiny, technically this would
fall under the rubric of “foreign policy.” Two years after Winthrop’s speech,
President James Polk signed the Organic Act on August 14, 1848, thereby
creating the Oregon Territory. This was a reflex of Manifest Destiny, legiti-
mizing territorial expansion. In his speech, the article that Winthrop had
alluded to, where Manifest Destiny was championed, had appeared only a
week before, also addressing the “Oregon question” as part of a national
debate:
Our legal title to Oregon, so far as law exists for such rights, is perfect.
There is no doubt of this. . . . [W]e have a still better title than any that
can ever be constructed out of all these antiquated materials of old black-
letter international law. Away, away with all these cobweb tissues of rights
of discovery, exploration, settlement, continuity, etc. . . . And that claim is
by the right of our manifest destiny to overspread and to possess the whole of the
continent which Providence has given us for the development of the great
experiment of liberty and federated self-government entrusted to us. . . .
The God of nature and of nations has marked it for us; with His blessing
we will firmly maintain the incontestable rights He has given, and fear-
lessly perform the high duties He has imposed.22
In this editorial, the “rights of discovery, exploration, settlement, conti-
nuity, etc.” are invoked, but these “rights” were not universal. They were
the province of the Americans, whether nationally, ethnically, or racially
defined. These rights were circumscribed. To state the obvious, they
belonged exclusively to Euro-Americans, and not to the Native Americans.
The enforcement of such rights by the “Americans” against the Native
Americans necessarily deprived the latter of what the Declaration of Inde-
pendence had, at least in theory, declared to be “inalienable.” And all this
was done with the putative blessing of “the God of nature and of nations.”
“Providence” had so decreed, it would seem. The “City upon a hill” became
an “empire of right”—colonizing, Christianizing, and civilizing by might, in
the name of these self-arrogated “rights.”
Let us now see how this doctrine was translated into American and
world history. Mostafa Rejai, Distinguished Professor Emeritus at Miami

Protestant Myths and Visions of America 63
University, Ohio, provides this clear overview across the horizons of his-
tory, in which Manifest Destiny had a direct impact on the destiny of vast
territories and their peoples:
Manifest destiny is going to refer, among other things, to the physical
direction in which the country is going to be moving. Coming from the
points we do, our natural direction of movement is toward the West. So,
manifest destiny means, in the first place, that the new nation is bound to
expand over the entire continent—and with it, the values of life, liberty,
and pursuit of happiness will spread from coast to coast. Later on, we will
have such expressions as “from sea to shining sea” and “from the moun-
tains, to the prairies, to the oceans” to capture this aspect of manifest
destiny. So, the westward movement is manifest destiny in action. The
frontier is manifest destiny in action. The purchase of Louisiana is mani-
fest destiny in action. The annexation of California and Texas is manifest
destiny in action.
Now, manifest destiny means much more. Having expanded over the
entire continent, the new nation is bound to go across the seas. It is our
preordained mission to go beyond the continent. Why? Because wherever
we go, life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness go with us. We have
to bring the blessings of democracy to the less fortunate peoples of the
world. Accordingly, the acquisitions of Cuba, Puerto Rico, Guam, Hawaii,
Alaska, and the Philippines—these are all manifest destiny in action.23
From this succinct epitome of the range and reach of Manifest Destiny,
the reader now has a clear impression of its vast historical impact. Manifest
Destiny may be thought of as the American doctrine of conquest, as the ide-
ology of American expansionism. Its ideological underpinnings, although
secular, have markedly religious antecedents. In other words, Manifest Des-
tiny is a quasi-religious concept. Baldly put, it urged the conquest of North
America (and beyond), as ordained by divine will.
In his monograph on the ideology of Manifest Destiny, Anders Stepha-
nson24 charts a trajectory of Manifest Destiny over the course of American
history and connects this history with its ideological justifications. Dis-
claiming any attempt to define “the meaning of America,” Stephanson
maintains that “manifest destiny is of signal importance in the way the
United States came to understand itself in the world and still does.”25 As
the ideology of American nationalism, Manifest Destiny reflected America’s
belief in a “providentially assigned role . . . to lead the world to new and
better things.”26 At the heart of this ideology lies “an apparent paradox:
a particular (and particularly powerful) nationalism constituting itself not
only as prophetic but also [as] universal.”27 Manifest Destiny, which “crys-
tallized most clearly in the moments of aggrandizement or intervention,”28
provided Americans with “a tradition that created a sense of national
place and direction in a variety of historical settings.”29 Accordingly, the

64 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
expansionist wars against Mexico in the 1840s and Spain in the 1890s were
direct outcomes of this ideology translated into national policy.
Manifest Destiny arose during the Revolutionary and Federalist peri-
ods, when the 13 colonies, in their quest to forge an independent union
and to preserve its sense of national purpose, required an ideology that
would provide a coherent rationale. Lacking the unifying ethnic and cul-
tural heritage that already unified other nation-states, Americans needed
“a set of simple symbols . . . that would distill the past and at the same
time proclaim the future.”30 In fashioning this sense of common heritage
and purpose, a “peculiar fusion of providential and republican ideology
that took place after the Revolution” emerged, imbuing the United States
of America with a sense of divine mission.31 Apart from acknowledged
classical influences, Stephanson claims that “any genealogy . . . must
begin with the religious sources.”32 Although regional, New England Puri-
tanism proved to be the key catalyst in the formation and formulation
of a national ideology. In other words, the Puritans were the precursors
of Manifest Destiny. Admixed with other ideological alloys, Stephanson
asserts that “the invaluable Puritan matrix could be projected onto more
recent bourgeois models of enlightenment and profit, generating a mod-
ern nationhood of process and mission.”33
Stephanson speaks of the “Jeffersonian Moment” as a critical turning
point in the further development of Manifest Destiny. Expansionist aspira-
tions—an agrarian vision in which the empire of liberty might enlarge—made
territorial acquisition a necessity. This necessitated the infamous Indian
Removal Act that triggered the Indian Wars, as America advanced its fron-
tiers. Inevitably, this would lead to confrontation with European states as
Americans overtook their colonial empires. Thus, the Jeffersonians’ “dyna-
mism and ideology of national aggrandizement” became “emblematic of the
nineteenth century.”34 Over the course of the twentieth century, the United
States developed to its current position as “world hegemon.”35
One of the presumptions of Manifest Destiny is that Protestantism is
superior to Catholicism. This allowed a country that was overwhelmingly
Protestant to pretextually invade and annex half of the territory of Mexico
in the 1840s. The U.S.–Mexican War of 1846–1848 was a prime example
of how Manifest Destiny was exploited as justification for conquest. In a
2001 dissertation, Crusade and Conquest: Anti-Catholicism, Manifest Destiny,
and the United States–Mexican War of 1846–1848, John Christopher Pinheiro
examines how anti-Catholic sentiment influenced public opinion regard-
ing the war against Mexico. Pinheiro explores how, in the late 1830s and
early 1840s, increased immigration and republican ideology allowed anti-
Catholicism and nativism to fuse, with this result:
Contrary to their usual anti-immigrant rhetoric, nativists also supported
the annexation of Mexico in its entirety in the name of Manifest Des-
tiny, and for racist and anti-Catholic reasons. . . . Voicing their opinions

Protestant Myths and Visions of America 65
in republican language, many evangelicals saw the war as a Providen-
tial opportunity to evangelize Catholic Mexico with a “pure” gospel. To
them, the Manifest Destiny of the United States included the spread of
Protestantism as the necessary foundation of republican government. . . .
Certain tenets of American republicanism were brought into play when
the overwhelmingly Protestant United States waged war on Catholic
Mexico. Located at the middle point in the growth of the antebellum anti-
Catholic movement, the U.S.–Mexican War helped to hone the concept
of American republicanism as an ideology that included Anglo-Saxonism
and anti-Catholicism under the greater umbrella of Manifest Destiny.36
Succinctly put, Manifest Destiny allowed for the pretextual invasion and
annexation of half of Mexico’s land mass in the 1846–1848 war: “Express-
ing a hegemonic faith in the racial, moral, religious, and cultural superiority
of the United States, Manifest Destiny legitimized the occupation of adja-
cent territorial zones and therefore affected Mexico directly.”37 Besides its
anti-Catholic sentiment, Manifest Destiny entails a racial ideology as well.
In Race and Manifest Destiny: The Origins of American Racial Anglo-Saxonism,
Reginald Horsman characterizes Manifest Destiny as a “search for personal
and national wealth” that was “put in terms of world progress, under the
leadership of a supreme race.”38
The “Curse of Ham” Myth
This is where the Protestant myth of America becomes overtly racial. Pro-
slavery Americans tried their best to Christianize slavery. A favorite verse
of Southern clergymen, for instance, was this: “Masters, give unto your ser-
vants that which is just and equal, knowing that ye also have a master in
heaven.”39 Even more influential was the biblical account of the “Curse of
Ham.”40 The verse, “Cursed be Canaan; a slave of slaves shall he be to his
brothers” (Genesis 9:25), was invoked as a proof text for Christian legitima-
tion of slavery throughout the South. The “Curse of Ham” was also known
as the “Curse of Canaan.” (Ham was Noah’s youngest son, and Canaan
was one of Ham’s sons.) Canaan gets punished for Ham’s delict. Because
Africans were considered to be descendants of Ham, they were fated to be
slaves, so that logic goes. This foregone conclusion—this perverse inter-
pretation of a biblical story—transmogrified the biblical account into a
racialized American Protestant myth.
This story played a prominent role in proslavery rhetoric. It theologically
sanctioned slavery by means of a racialized exegesis of the biblical account
of Noah, who planted a vineyard, got drunk, and was seen naked by one
of his three sons, Ham, whom Noah then cursed. The immediate irony
here is that Christianity stands for salvation—in justifying the sinner before
God through the economy of Christ’s redemptive work. Unfortunately,

66 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
institutional Christianity (primarily in the Southern States), in order to jus-
tify slavery, found a powerful argument in favor of slavery in the Curse of
Ham myth.
For much of the eighteenth, nineteenth, and twentieth centuries in the
Christian West, in fact, the Curse of Ham was the foremost religious theory
for making sense of racial differences within humanity. In fact, it served
as the central religious justification of the “peculiar institution” of chattel
slavery in America. Because one of Ham’s descendants, Cush, was black
(Genesis 10:6–14), the “Curse of Ham” has been interpreted racially in
order to legitimate the slavery of people of African origin.
That is where a Bible story, racially interpreted, was transmogrified into a
racial myth of polygenesis that gained almost universal assent among white
nineteenth-century American Protestants.41 In its treatment of the relation-
ship of Noah’s three sons—Japheth, Shem, Ham—the Curse of Ham myth
provided the typology by which race relations among the three racial groups
that Noah’s three sons, respectively, represented (Caucasian, Asian, and
African descent) could be differentiated and regulated. As one historian
observes: “These relations were unsurprisingly a mirror of contemporary
relations in 19th century—whites were dominant, indigenous peoples were
marginalized, and blacks were subjugated.”42
Protestant Americans were certainly not alone in reading race into
scripture. Exponents of racial exegesis in Judaism, Christianity, and Islam
exercised their influence in providing scriptural warrant for racial doc-
trines.43 The “Curse of Ham”/“Curse of Canaan” refers to the following
passage of scripture in the book of Genesis:
The sons of Noah who went forth from the ark were Shem, Ham, and
Japheth. Ham was the father of Canaan. These three were the sons of
Noah; and from these the whole earth was peopled. Noah was the first til-
ler of the soil. He planted a vineyard; and he drank of the wine, and became
drunk, and lay uncovered in his tent. And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw
the nakedness of his father, and told his two brothers outside. Then Shem
and Japheth took a garment, laid it upon both their shoulders, and walked
backward and covered the nakedness of their father; their faces were
turned away, and they did not see their father’s nakedness. When Noah
awoke from his wine and knew what his youngest son had done to him,
he said, “Cursed be Canaan; a slave of slaves shall he be to his brothers.”44
After the Flood, Noah planted a vineyard, became drunk, and lay naked
in his tent. The drunkenness and nakedness of Noah thus occasioned the
violation by Ham. Ham’s sin is that he beheld his father’s nakedness. While
Noah’s other two sons (Shem and Japheth) were careful to avert their eyes,
Ham gazed upon his drunken father’s body—a shameful act that triggered
Noah’s curse: “Cursed be Canaan; a slave of slaves shall he be to his broth-
ers.” Note that it is not Ham who is cursed, but rather his son, Canaan, who

Protestant Myths and Visions of America 67
is fated to perpetual slavery, as is his progeny. Nor is there any mention of
skin color, as David Goldenberg points out: “This biblical story has been
the single greatest justification for Black slavery for more than a thousand
years. It is a strange justification indeed, for there is no reference in it to
Blacks at all.”45
The association with Blacks came later, as chronicled in David Golden-
berg’s masterful survey, The Curse of Ham: Race and Slavery in Early Judaism,
Christianity, and Islam.46 For our purposes, what matters is how this bibli-
cal understanding affected American history. Etymology begat etiology:
“Ham” commonly came to mean “hot,” “burnt,” “swarthy,” “dark,” and
“black.” In the popular conception of it, the received meaning of “Ham”
clearly pointed to Africa as the “hot” clime that produced the “black” race.
Nothing could be more obvious, it would seem. Both in the North and in
the South, Ham was universally regarded as the progenitor of black Afri-
cans: “In a study of the mythic world of the antebellum South vis-à-vis
Blacks,” Goldenberg explains, “ . . . the notion of Blacks as ‘the children
of Ham’ was a well-entrenched belief.”47 In nineteenth-century America,
the sheer ubiquitousness of what came to be a commonplace assumption
supports this conclusion, which can be stated with confidence: “It didn’t
matter whether one supported the institution of Black slavery or not, or
whether one was Black or not; everyone in nineteenth-century America
seemed to believe in the truth of Ham’s blackness.”48 As pervasive as the
Curse of Ham myth was in the nineteenth century, it persisted well into
the twentieth century: “The Curse of Ham was commonly taught and
believed in America up to recent times.”49 And so the myth of Canaan, as
cursed by God with black skin, took root as a widespread religious myth of
America. Its importance and pivotal influence cannot be overemphasized,
a fact that Goldenberg accentuates:
As the Black slave trade moved to England and then America, the Curse
of Ham moved with it. . . . There can be no denying the fact, however, that
the Curse made its most harmful appearance in America, and there can
be no denying the central role it played in sustaining the slave system.
It was the ideological cornerstone for the justification of Black slavery,
“the major argument in the proslavery arsenal of biblical texts,” “certainly
among the most popular defenses of slavery if not the most popular.” Its
place in American thought of the time was succinctly described in 1862 by
Alexander Crummel, a man born in the United States to freed slaves. In a
learned article he refers to “the opinion that the sufferings and the slavery
of the Negro race are the consequence of the curse of Noah” as a “general,
almost universal, opinion in the Christian world.”50
Proslavery ideologues saw slaves as depraved by nature, since Ham,
as the ancestor of Africans, embodied the debased character that drew
Noah’s wrath. Notwithstanding, Blacks withstood. Blacks took exception

68 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
to American exceptionalism by means of reactionary Black anti-excep-
tionalism, or what one scholar has dubbed “double exceptionalism.”51 As
a bulwark against the Curse of Ham, African Americans framed counter-
myths that conveyed a covert theology of liberation from oppression.
The African American Exodus Counter-Myth
Within Protestant Christianity itself, African Americans developed their
own religious visions of America that served as viable alternatives to the
white Protestant myths that helped rationalize and reinforce institutional-
ized racism in America, from slavery forward. Eddie S. Glaude notes that
“religious myths remain central to the making of a new African American
self and the location of that self in history.”52 While he does not use the
term “counter-myth,” Glaude clearly has the idea of a counter-myth in mind
when he further observes:
African American religious myths deployed in the struggles against white
supremacy have produced particularly charged conceptions of history,
identity, and memory (which range across the political spectrum). . . . But
many uses of religious myths among African Americans reject identifica-
tion with America. This rejection begins with a basic reconfiguration of
historical beginnings that makes possible the construction of an identity
that stands over and against “the idea of America.”53
The preeminent African American counter-myth is the Exodus story. This
is the subject of a 2007 dissertation, the information provided by which
cannot be recapitulated here.54 In brief, Exodus chronicles Israel’s entrance
into Egypt, liberation from slavery, and settlement in the Promised Land
of Canaan. This biblical narrative contained the seeds of a theology of
liberation. Once it was introduced to American slaves, they immediately
recognized a parallel to their own plight, and seized upon it as a source of
inspiration and hope for their own freedom from oppression:
Exodus functioned as an archetypal myth for the slaves. The sacred his-
tory of God’s liberation of his people would be or was being reenacted
in the American South. A white Union Army chaplain working among
freedmen in Decatur, Alabama, commented disapprovingly on the slaves’
fascination with Exodus: “There is no part of the Bible with which they
are so familiar as the story of the deliverance of Israel. Moses is their
ideal of all that is high, and noble, and perfect, in man. I think they have
been accustomed to regard Christ not so much in the light of a spiritual
Deliverer, as that of a second Moses who would eventually lead them out
of their prison-house of bondage.”55

Protestant Myths and Visions of America 69
In this alternative religious myth of America, America is not “God’s
New Israel,” as so many white Protestants, as far back as the Puritans,
believed. Under its racial interpretation by Black slaves, America was the
new oppressor. It was Egypt reenacted. Under the Exodus myth, there-
fore, America’s mythic role is reversed. In “African Americans, Exodus,
and the American Israel,” Albert J. Raboteau explains this reversal of Bib-
lical imagery:
No single story captures more clearly the distinctiveness of African-
American Christianity than that of the Exodus. From the earliest days of
colonization, white Christians had represented their journey across the
Atlantic to America as the exodus of a New Israel; slaves identified them-
selves as the Old Israel, suffering bondage under a new Pharaoh.56
Out of the Exodus story, two divergent American religious myths
emerged: a White Exodus narrative and a Black Exodus story. Each told a
different history. The first was the Puritans’ escape from religious oppres-
sion to find religious freedom; the second was the struggle of African
Americans to escape the oppression at the hands of the Puritans’ descen-
dants. A prime example of this motif is the dialect poem, “An Ante-Bellum
Sermon” (1895), by African American poet Paul Laurence Dunbar (1872–
1906)—excerpts from which will give the reader a fair impression of how
the Exodus narrative was analogized to the new Egypt, America:
AN ANTE-BELLUM SERMON
We is gathahed hyeah, my brothahs,
In di howlin’ wildaness,
Fu’ to speak some words o comfo’t
to each othah in distress.
An’ we choose fu’ ouah subjic’
Dis—-we’ll ‘splain it by an’ by;
“An’ de Lawd said, “Moses, Moses,”
An’ de man said, Hyeah am I’.”
*****
Now ole Pher’oh, down in Egypt
Was de wuss man evah bo’n,
An’ he had de Hebrew chillun
Down dah wukin’ in his co’n;
‘Twell de Lawd got tiahed o’ his foolin’,
an’ sez he: “I’ll let him know’
Look hyeah, Moses, go tell Pher’oh
Fu’ to let dem chillun go.”

70 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
*****
“An’ ef he refuse do it,
I will make him rue de houah,
fu’ I’ll empty down on Egypt
All de vials of my powah.”
Yes, he did—-an’ Pher’oh’s ahmy
Wasn’t wurth a ha’f a dime;
Fu’ de Lawd will he’p his chillum,
You kin trust him evah time.
*****
An’ you’ enemies may ‘sail you
In de back an’ in de front;
But de Lawd is all aroun’ you,
Fu’ to ba’ de battle’s brunt.
Dey kin fo’ge yo’ chains an’ shackles
F’om de mountains to de sea;
But de Lawd will sen’ some Moses
Fu’ to set his chilun free.
*****
An’ de lan’ shall hyeah his thundah,
Lak a blas’ f’om Gab’el’s ho’n,
Fu’ de Lawd of hosts is mighty
When he girds his ahmor on.
But fu’ feah some one mistakes me,
I will pause right hyeah to say,
Dat I’m still a-preachin’ ancient,
I ain’t talkin’ bout to-day.
*****
But I tell you, fellah christuns,
Things’ll happen mighty strange;
Now, de Lawd done dis fu’ Isrul,
An’ his ways don’t nevah change,
An’ de love he showed to Isrul
Wasn’t all on Isrul spent;
Now don’t run an’ tell yo’ mastahs
Dat I’s preachin’ discontent.
*****

Protestant Myths and Visions of America 71
‘Cause I isn’t; I’se a-judgin’
Bible people by dier ac’s;
I’se a-givin’ you de Scriptuah,
I’se a-handin’ you de fac’s.
Cose ole Pher’or b’lieved in slav’ry,
But de Lawd he let him see,
Dat de people he put bref in,
Evah mothah’s son was free.
*****
An’ dah’s othahs thinks lak Pher’or,
But dey calls de Scriptuah liar,
Fu’ de Bible says “a servant
Is worthy of his hire,”
An’ you cain’t git roun’ nor thoo dat,
An’ you cain’t git ovah it,
Fu’ whatevah place you git in,
Dis hyeah Bible too’ll fit.
*****
So you see de Lawd’s intention,
Evah sence de worl’ began,
Was dat His almight freedom
Should belong to evah man,
But I think it would be bettah,
Ef I’d pause agin to say,
Dat I’m talkin’ ‘bout ouah freedom
In a Bibleistic way.57
Dunbar skillfully recreates a sermon, just as it might have sounded like in
the days of Black folk preachers during the time of slavery. Through subver-
sive use of dialect, Dunbar’s preacher is a master of double entendre—the
art of saying one thing and meaning another. The preacher invokes the past
to address the present. After providing a detailed literary interpretation of
this poem, David T. Shannon offers “An Ante-bellum Sermon” as an exem-
plar of African American hermeneutics:
The early African American sermons, of which Dunbar’s poetic rendi-
tion is a remarkable remembrance, make a significant contribution to the
development of an African American hermeneutic in several ways. They
address the issues of (1) contextuality, (2) correlation, (3) confrontation, and
(4) consolation, which, argues, are four significant modes of African Ameri-
can biblical interpretation.58

72 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
The Exodus myth is the leading example of African American counter-
myths of America. Like this sermon, the destiny of African Americans is to
expose Manifest Destiny for what it really is—a religious pretext for naked
greed. The blessing of African Americans, moreover, is to counter the “Curse
of Ham.” This dialectic of religious myth and counter-myth is a dynamic
that pervades religious myths of America generally, as part of a long and
arduous struggle to overcome the past. In Chapter 1, it was suggested that
the “central themes” of American religious history are pluralism, Puritan-
ism, and the encounter of black and white.59 In a sense, all three themes are
interrelated. Puritanism, largely through the encounter of black and white,
embarked on a tortuous, historic path that is leading to a healthy diversity
unified by a grand sense of overarching pluralism. The encounter of black
and white will prove to be a major theme in the religious myths and visions
of America to follow.
Postscript: The present writer has taken seriously the advice of reviewer,
Richard Kyle. In his otherwise positive review of Religious Myths and Visions
of America, Professor Kyle offered a fair criticism that the first edition of this
book had neglected the “Religious Right”:
Currently, the greatest influence of Puritanism may be on evangelical
Protestantism, especially the Religious Right. Evangelicals evidence a
conflicting view of America. On one hand, they push American “excep-
tionalism ”and have “sacralized” many aspects of American culture (for
example, its political and economic systems). On the other hand, they
lament the loss of “Christian America” largely because of the nation’s
permissive attitude toward sexual openness, homosexuality, and
abortion.60
It seems appropriate, therefore, to add an entirely new chapter for this
revised edition: “The Christian Right’s Myths and Visions of America.”
Understanding that the Christian Right does not represent what Christians
believe as a whole (although, to be fair, the Christian Right does represent
a conservative evangelical perspective shared by a significant electorate), it
makes sense to treat the Christian Right in a separate chapter, which imme-
diately follows, as Chapter 4.
Notes

1. John Winthrop, “A Model of Christian Charity.” God’s New Israel: Religious
Interpretations of American Destiny (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina
Press, 1998), 41.

2. Sacvan Bercovitch, “Rhetoric as Authority: Puritanism, the Bible, and the
Myth of America.” Social Science Information 21.1 (January 1982): 5–17 [14].

Protestant Myths and Visions of America 73

3. Eric Kaufmann, “American Exceptionalism Reconsidered: Anglo-Saxon
Ethnogenesis in the ‘Universal’ Nation, 1776–1850.” Journal of American
Studies 33.3 (1999): 437–457 [439]. Emphasis added.

4. Bercovitch, “Rhetoric as Authority,” 5.

5. Ibid., 5–6.

6. Ibid., 14.

7. Robert Charles Winthrop, ed., Life and Letters of John Winthrop (Boston: Tic-
knor and Fields, 1864–1867), 18–20.

8. Matthew 5:14 (KJV).

9. Gary Gerstle, “American Freedom, American Coercion: Immigrant Jour-
neys in the ‘Promised Land’.” Social Compass 47.1 (2000): 63–76 [72].

10. Conrad Cherry, God’s New Israel: Religious Interpretations of American Destiny.
Ed. idem. Rev. ed. (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1998).

11. Gerstle, “American Freedom, American Coercion,” 64–65.

12. Szilvia Csábi, “The Concept of America in the Puritan Mind.” Language and
Literature 10.3 (2001): 195–209 [198].

13. Ibid., 198.

14. Ibid., 198.

15. Kaufmann, “American Exceptionalism Reconsidered,” 441–442.

16. Cian O’Driscoll, “Jean Bethke Elshtain’s Just War Against Terror: A Tale of
Two Cities.” International Relations 21.4 (2007): 485–492 [489].

17. Lori Merish, Sentimental Materialism: Gender, Commodity Culture, and Nine-
teenth-Century American Literature (Durham, NC: Duke University Press,
2000), 318.

18. Kaufmann, “American Exceptionalism Reconsidered,” 442.

19. John L. O’Sullivan, “Annexation.” The United States Magazine and Demo-
cratic Review 17 (July–August 1845): 5–10 [5] (emphasis added); John L.
O’Sullivan, “The Great Nation of Futurity,” The United States Democratic
Review 6.23 (November 1839): 426–430.

20. Robert J. Scholnick, “Extermination and Democracy: O’Sullivan, the Dem-
ocratic Review, and Empire, 1837–1840.” American Periodicals: A Journal of
History, Criticism, and Bibliography 15.2 (2005): 123–141 [124].

21. Glenn Wallach, Obedient Sons: The Discourse of Youth and Generations in Ameri-
can Culture, 1630–1860 (Amherst: University of Massachusetts Press,
1997), 209.

22. “The True Title.” New York Morning News (December 27, 1845). Qtd. in
Julius W. Pratt, “The Origin of ‘Manifest Destiny’.” American Historical
Review 32.4 (July 1927): 795–798 [796].

23. Mostafa Rejai, Political Ideologies: A Comparative Approach. 2nd ed. (Armonk,
NY/London: M. E. Sharpe, 1995), 36–37.

24. Anders Stephanson, Manifest Destiny: American Expansionism and the Empire of
Right (New York: Hill and Wang, 1995).

25. Ibid., xiv.

26. Ibid., xii.

27. Ibid., xiii.

28. Ibid., xiii.

29. Ibid., xiv.

30. Ibid., 20.

74 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America

31. Ibid., 5.

32. Ibid., 5.

33. Ibid., 21.

34. Ibid., 21.

35. Ibid., 112.

36. John Christopher Pinheiro, Crusade and Conquest: Anti-Catholicism, Manifest
Destiny, and the United States-Mexican War of 1846–1848 (Ph.D. dissertation:
University of Tennessee, 2001). (Abstract.)

37. Maria del Rosario Rodriguez Diaz, “Mexico’s Vision of Manifest Destiny
During the 1847 War.” Journal of Popular Culture 35.2 (Fall 2001): 41–50
[44–45]; Gene Brack, The Diplomacy of Racism: Manifest Destiny and Mexico,
1821–1848 (St. Charles, MO: Forum Press, 1974).

38. Reginald Horsman, Race and Manifest Destiny: The Origins of American Racial
Anglo-Saxonism (Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1981), 20.

39. Colossians 4:1 (KJV).

40. David H. Aaron, “Early Rabbinic Exegesis on Noah’s Son Ham and the
So-Called ‘Hamitic Myth’.” Journal of the American Academy of Religion 63
(1995): 721–759.

41. Christopher A. Luse, “Slavery’s Champions Stood at Odds: Polygenesis and
the Defense of Slavery.” Civil War History 53.4 (December 2007): 379–412.

42. Stephen G. Ray, Jr., “Review of the Myth of Ham in Nineteenth-Century
American Christianity: Race, Heathens, and the People of God.” Conversa-
tions in Religion and Theology 4.1 (2006): 36–38 [36].

43. David M. Goldenberg, The Curse of Ham: Race and Slavery in Early Judaism,
Christianity, and Islam (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2003).

44. Genesis 9:18–25 (RSV).

45. Goldenberg, The Curse of Ham, 1.

46. Ibid., Chapter Seven, “The Colors of Mankind.”

47. Ibid., 142.

48. Ibid., 142.

49. Ibid., 143.

50. Ibid., 176.

51. Robert Oscar Lopez, “The Colors of Double Exceptionalism: The Founders
and African America.” Literature Compass 5.1 (2008): 20–41.

52. Eddie S. Glaude, “Myth and African American Self-Identity.” Religion and
the Creation of Race and Ethnicity: An Introduction. Ed. Craig R. Prentiss (New
York: New York University Press, 2003), 28–42 [39].

53. Ibid., 35.

54. Rhondda Robinson Thomas, “Exodus: Literary Migrations of Afro-Atlantic
Authors, 1760–1903” (Ph.D. dissertation: University of Maryland, 2007).

55. Albert J. Raboteau, “African-Americans, Exodus, and the American Israel.”
African-American Christianity: Essays in History. Ed. Paul E. Johnson (Berke-
ley: University of California Press, 1994), 1–17 [13].

56. Raboteau, “African-Americans, Exodus, and the American Israel.” In idem,
A Fire in the Bones (Boston: Beacon Press, 1996), 17–36 [28].

57. Paul Laurence Dunbar, “An Ante-Bellum Sermon” (1895).

58. David T. Shannon, “‘An Ante-Bellum Sermon’: A Resource for an African
American Hermeneutic.” Stony the Road We Trod: African American Biblical

Protestant Myths and Visions of America 75
Interpretation. Ed. Cain Hope Felder (New York: Fortress Press, 1991),
98–123 [119].

59. David W. Wills, “The Central Themes of American Religious History: Plu-
ralism, Puritanism, and the Encounter of Black and White.” Religion and
Intellectual Life 5 (1987): 30–41. Reprinted in Timothy E. Fulop and Albert
J. Raboteau, eds., African-American Religion: Interpretive Essays in History and
Culture (New York/London: Routledge, 1997), 7–20 [20].

60. Kyle, Review of Religious Myths and Visions of America, 280.

Figure 4.1. “Sinking Liberty” by David Smith. (Photo courtesy of David Smith.)

Chapter 4
The Christian Right’s Myths
and Visions of America
America is not only a nation; America is a religious idea. . . . America and
Americanism were shaped by Christianity, especially Puritan Christianity.
Puritan Christianity was shaped by the Bible, especially the Hebrew Bible.
The idea that liberty, equality and democracy were ordained by God for all
mankind, and that America is a new promised land richly blessed by and
deeply indebted to God—that is Americanism.
— David Gelernter (2007)1
We cannot escape our destiny, nor should we try to do so. The leadership
of the free world was thrust upon us two centuries ago in that little hall
of Philadelphia. In the days following World War II, when the economic
strength and power of America was all that stood between the world and
the return to the dark ages, Pope Pius XII said, “The American people
have a great genius for splendid and unselfish actions. Into the hands of
America God has placed the destinies of an afflicted mankind.”
We are indeed, and we are today, the last best hope of man on earth.
— Governor Ronald Reagan (1974)2
America. Last best hope of man on earth? Or a dying civilization? Can
America be saved?
Enter the Christian Right, which burst onto the national scene during
the presidency of Jimmy Carter, the 39th President of the United States
(1976–1981). An evangelical social movement, the politics of the Ameri-
can Christian Right has been phenomenal. In 1979, Jerry Falwell, pastor
of the Thomas Road Baptist Church in Lynchburg, Virginia, launched the
Moral Majority, which became a force to be reckoned with during the 1980
presidential campaign. This movement swept across grassroots America,
catching the national media’s attention. Buoyed by a groundswell of enthu-
siastic supporters, Falwell urged Christians to combat “secular humanism”
by making their voices heard in Washington, DC. One mark of its remarkable

78 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
success is the fact that the Moral Majority registered some two million vot-
ers. Yet it did not succeed in significantly affecting policy. No substantive
legislative achievements were gained.
Other evangelical leaders followed suit, encouraging Christian activism.
For years, Falwell was the face of the Christian Right, until, after failing to
pass the very legislation he had advocated for so long, the Moral Majority
was disbanded in the late 1980s, and gave way to the Christian Coalition,
which enjoyed wider public support. Yet, by the dramatic force of Falwell’s
example, the Christian Right demonstrated that religions can be major
social actors, so long as their adherents are effectively organized and mobi-
lized. Politically energized evangelicals, then and now, show how religion
can play a key role in society—not only in national affairs, but in world
affairs.3
The American “Christian Right” is an umbrella term for a politically
active movement of conservative evangelical Christians and their organiza-
tions. Repudiating “Hollywood values,” the Christian Right—also known
as the Religious Right—gained national prominence as a “public religion”
with a conservative Christian agenda. The term, “Religious Right,” how-
ever, is broader. Within Christianity, the term extends to the Catholic
Right and the Mormon Right as well. The term further widens to include
faith-communities outside of the Christian spectrum as well. Historian Lee
Marsden puts the Christian Right in an even fuller perspective:
The Christian Right are a subgroup of the Religious Right, which comprises
conservative Christians including Protestant evangelicals, Pentecostals,
charismatics, fundamentalists, Catholics, sects and cults, including the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons), Worldwide Uni-
fication Church (Moonies), and Christian Scientists. Socially conservative
Jews, Muslims, Hindus and Buddhists would also be included in this
wide-ranging definition. Only those Protestants and Catholics who are
socially conservative and politically active are included in the Christian
Right; this excludes the vast majority of members of mainstream Prot-
estant and Catholic churches, where a more inclusive and tolerant social
gospel is taught.4
According to Richard Kyle, author of Evangelicalism: An Americanized
Christianity, the Christian Right strives to “sanctify America, legitimizing
its form of government, economy, and military activities” in an “attempt
to return America to its founding Christian principles.”5 As expected, the
political discourses of Christian conservatives are religiously grounded.
“The Christian Right has effectively baptized its political ideology in the
name of Christianity,” Kyle explains.6 So what is the political ideology of
the Christian Right?
Francis A. Schaeffer (1912–1984) is widely acclaimed as the “father
of the Christian Right.” A prime intellectual and spiritual mover behind

The Christian Right’s Myths and Visions of America 79
the meteoric rise of the new Christian Right as a political force, Schaef-
fer persuaded Jerry Falwell (d. 2007) to get politically active—thus making
Schaeffer the philosopher of Falwell’s “Moral Majority” organization. This
was a key step in the emergence of the Christian Right. By setting the
tone and agenda for evangelical Christians, his book, A Christian Manifesto
(1981),7 practically became the other bible of the Christian Right. Schaeffer
constructed a formidable intellectual framework in support of Christian-
ity as a totalizing faith. He saw America as being founded on Christian
principles:
We must not confuse the Kingdom of God with our country. To say it
another way: “We should not wrap Christianity in our national flag.” None
of this, however, changes the fact that the United States was founded upon
a Christian consensus, nor that we today should bring Judeo-Christian
principles into play in regard to government. But that is very different
from a theocracy in name or in fact.8
Schaeffer argued that, while Christianity once held sway in America,
“secular humanism” and hedonism now prevail. Christians needed to reas-
sert their faith in such a way as to become the salt of American culture, and
as a moral bedrock of American values. Schaeffer effectively transformed
evangelical Christian atavism into activism.
The 1980s witnessed the emergence of James Dobson’s Focus on the
Family and Gary Bauer’s Family Research Council, which merged in 1988.
In more recent American history, these politically engaged, conservative
Protestants arose to become a formidable new force in American politics.
A case-in-point is President Ronald Reagan, who epitomized the success
of the Christian Right, mediated by the Republican Party. The concerted
efforts of the Christian Right in lobbying American policymakers were
extraordinarily effective. The triumphs of the Christian Right at the ballot
box, however, did not always translate into accomplishing the conservative
agenda. But rather than dwelling on politics—being in constant flux—this
chapter will focus principally on the Christian Right’s myths and visions of
America, expressive of the movement’s moral and political agenda.
Generally, the Christian Right believes in “an inerrant Bible, the necessity
of a conversion, America’s Christian heritage, and the divinely sanctioned
political and economic systems” of America.9 According to Kyle, “evangeli-
cals have ‘baptized’ America’s political and economic systems, as they have
sanctified many aspects of American culture.”10 Previously, the old Christian
Right believed that “America’s rise to power both economically and politi-
cally” in the 19th century “was part of God’s design to civilize, Americanize,
and Christianize the world.”11 Vestiges of this conviction can be discerned,
subliminally, in new Christian Right ideology—so much so that, in the late
20th century, “the idea of a Christian America has become an article of faith
with many evangelicals,” according to Kyle.12 The old Christian Right were

80 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
“not politically active from 1930 to 1970 in part because they did not have
to be.”13 But, in the wake of Roe v. Wade (1993), abortion, homosexuality,
pornography and other issues spurred evangelicals into political action.14
The new Christian Right, as a movement, believes in a Christian America.
The Christian Right strives to restore a Bible-based moral order to America.
Secular humanism stands in the way, and threatens to thwart, undo, and
overturn the very values on which this country was historically based. Sec-
ular humanism, from the perspective of the Christian Right, undermines
America’s Christian heritage on a number of fronts.
The hot-button issues? The movers and shakers of the Christian Right
proposed a school prayer amendment to the U.S. Constitution, and advo-
cated teaching creationism in public schools (as an alternative theory to
evolution). The Christian Right had also opposed the proposed Equal
Rights Amendment in the 1970s. They agitated against abortion, gay rights,
pornography, busing and quotas, high taxes, business regulation, illegal
immigration, feminism, and environmentalism. As champions of laissez-
faire capitalism, moral discipline and heterosexual family values (especially
the federal Defense of Marriage Act), the Christian Right remains a formi-
dable political force today.
Paradoxes Inherent in the Christian Right
Although galvanized and unified around core values and key political com-
mitments, the Christian Right exhibits some key paradoxes. As a populist,
grassroots movement, the Christian Right vested its political fortunes in
the Republican Party. But this was not always the case historically. Richard
Kyle point outs other paradoxes as well: Christian Right partisans (1) were
politically inactive in the past (before 1975), politically active in the pres-
ent;15 (2) registered mainly as Democrats (before 1980), yet most registered
Republicans after 1980;16 (3) advocated less governmental control over the
economy, yet lobbied for more control over morality in public and private
spheres;17 (4) championed equal rights for women in the 19th century, yet
opposed the Equal Rights Amendment in the 20th century;18 and (5) are
somewhat preoccupied with the end of the world (premillennialist), yet
engage in political activism (postmillennialist).19
A comment on this fifth paradox: conservative Christians have viewed
the United Nations as the nucleus of an imminent “New World Order.”
Because of this, the apocalypse is seen to be all the more imminent. The
sinister specter of economic and military centralization is a prelude to the
apocalypse. The Antichrist will take over the world in a one-world dicta-
torship. And so the Christian Right often casts its views on America in
apocalyptic terms. In Apocalyptic Fever: End-Time Prophecies in Modern America,
Kyle elaborates on this last paradox:

The Christian Right’s Myths and Visions of America 81
Evangelicanism has manifested a number of paradoxes but one concern
is its preoccupation with the end of the world and its political activism.
Conservative Protestants are largely premillennialists and believe that
they are living at the end of time. They interpret many events, especially
those in the Middle East, as pointing toward the return of Christ. Still,
they are determined to remake America according to Christian principles.
In doing so, they act as if the end is not in sight, and they behave like
postmillennialists.20
Yet the Christian Right also has an international vision. “The Ameri-
can culture wars are going global,” writes Jennifer S. Butler, author of Born
Again: The Christian Right Globalized.21 Advocacy at the United Nations is one
forum where the Christian Right has partly succeeded in dominating certain
global forums by forming alliances among evangelicals, conservative Roman
Catholics, and Mormons, who are among those “organizations and leaders
that mobilize key constituencies to a conservative social agenda motivated
by religious values.”22 For some of these organizations, the United Nations
is now their preferred forum in which to lobby their causes. Butler notes
“the international, interracial, and interfaith character of this new group of
activists.”23 In 2013, the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
(Norad), identified the following NGOs as “Influential Religious Actors”:
(1) Evangelical: Alliance Defending Freedom; American Family Asso-
ciation; Concerned Women for America (CWA); Family Research
Council (FRC); Focus on the Family (FOF)—to which list may be
added the Institute on Religion and Democracy (IRD), and the Eagle
Forum;
(2)  Catholic: American Life League; Catholic Family and Human Rights
Institute (C-FAM); The Holy See; Human Life International; Popu-
lation Research Institute;
(3)  Mormon: Family Watch International; United Families International;
World Family Policy Centre;
(4) Cross-faith: Doha International Institute for Family and Develop-
ment; Howard Center for Family, Religion and Society/World
Congress of Families; National Right to Life Committee; Interna-
tional Youth Coalition.24
These groups mainly lobby for pro-life and family values over against so-
called “sexual and reproductive health and rights” (SRHR) policies at the
UN and at the World Congress of Families. The coalition aims to exert its
influence and eventually shape social policy at the United Nations (UN).25
Considering that the Christian Right is notorious for its “antiglobalism,”
this might seem counterintuitive. Yet the Christian Right embraces the
international arena as a forum for conservative social change.

82 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Given the Holy See’s special status as permanent observer state to the
General Assembly, the Vatican is seen by Christian conservatives as a key
ally.26 The Vatican, in fact, serves as a role model for all NGOs promoting
religious values at the UN. Yet Norad reports that, in the SRHR arena,
the most influential conservative religious NGOs at the UN are Christian
and American.27 Norad further notes that “conservative Christian activists
came to the UN with an explicit negative agenda aiming at weakening and
ultimately ending UN influence on America.”28 Their “appeal to national
sovereignty,” Norad goes on to say, “serves to associate the UN with
unpatriotic, destructive forces—socialism, feminism and environmental-
ism—that threaten to infiltrate America.”29
American religious nationalism can, and often does, easily branch out
into American religious internationalism. Just as the Christian Right has
a national vision, it also has an international vision, if only to broaden its
fight against “global liberal agenda” as the natural extension of its campaign
against “secular liberalism” on American soil. Since the Christian Right
perceives the world to be in an anti-Christian spiral, the “culture wars” in
the United States practically become a “clash of civilizations” on a world
scale—not as between countries, but as between competing worldviews. It
is in this sense that the Christian Right is an international actor, with its
main global concerns being women’s rights, children’s rights and popula-
tion policy in the context of world politics. This brings us to the Christian
Right’s myths of America.
The Antichrist/Rapture Myth
Hal Lindsey’s The Late Great Planet Earth (1970) was America’s (and the
world’s) top nonfiction best-seller of the 1970s. Lindsey predicted that the
world would come to an end around 1988. Later, Tim LaHaye, co-author
of the “end times” Left Behind thrillers, became bestsellers in America. A
popular groundswell of belief in the “rapture” among evangelical Christians
was sufficient to suspend disbelief in these otherwise incredible narratives.
Evangelicals generally believe that Christians are living in the “Great Paren-
thesis” of time between the Christ’s resurrection and the secret “rapture”
upon Christ’s premillennial return, the “End of Days.”30
Along with the Book of Revelation, this apocalyptic scenario is primarily
based on literal interpretations of 1 Thessalonians 4:16–17: “For the Lord
himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the arch-
angel, and with the trump of God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first:
Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them
in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the
Lord” (KJV). This reading holds that faithful Christians will, suddenly and
physically, be caught up in the air, “in the twinkling of an eye,” when Christ
appears at the end of time to do battle with the Antichrist at Armageddon.

The Christian Right’s Myths and Visions of America 83
(A related scripture is I Corinthians 15:51–54.) In their reading of the Book
of Revelation, evangelical “premillenarians” interpret the “Declaration of
Establishment of State of Israel” on May 14, 1948, as a sign from God—a
messianic portent—that Christ’s Return is imminent.
That the Rapture was imminent did not mean that Christians should
not be engaged in combatting the pernicious influence of “secular human-
ism.” On Jerry Falwell’s talk show Listen America, Timothy LaHaye raised
a Christian battle-cry against secular humanism: “We’re in a religious war
and we need to aggressively oppose secular humanism; these people are as
religiously motivated as we are and they are filled with the devil.”31 Leader-
ship and activism are needed for moral combat. From this perspective, the
salvation of America is at stake.
Only a brief mention of this Christian myth is made here, since America
does not figure prominently. The Bible was written long before America was
discovered. So it is not possible to find any explicit mention of America in
scripture. Any reference to America in the Bible must therefore come by way
of interpretation. One notable example of those who read “America” into
prophecy is Paul McGuire, author of a 2013 book, A Prophecy of the Future
of America.32 McGuire hosted the conservative, nationally syndicated “Paul
McGuire Show.” McGuire interviewed such political figures as former Presi-
dent Jimmy Carter, Senator John McCain, various Secretaries of State and
Pentagon officials, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, PLO leaders and
generals in the Israeli Defense Forces, as well as such conservative Chris-
tian celebrities and evangelical luminaries as Oliver North, Rick Warren, Joel
Rosenberg, Tim LaHaye, Dr. James Dobson, and Ann Coulter.33
Since “America” is nowhere to be found in the Bible explicitly, how does
McGuire interpret a scriptural reference to “America” implicitly? The trick
is to identify America with “Babylon.” Interpreting “Babylon” as a met-
onym (word substitute) for “America” is a common interpretive technique
among evangelical writers who purport to give us a glimpse into the near
future, culminating in Armageddon. On balance, these doom-and-gloom
books tend to present America as having abandoned its Christian roots,
which is the root cause of the social calamities that America faces today.
From its lofty calling, America has fallen. Yet, the Rapture is not so much
a religious myth of America that is about America, but a religious myth that
many American evangelicals actually believe. Writers and film producers
saw “a pattern emerge in world events that they believed matched Bible
prophetic passages,” as signs and portents that the apocalypse was on the
event horizon.34 “This view of future events,” Harder goes on to say, would
“help shape the agenda of the Christian Right.”35 How did American premi-
llennialism accomplish this?
One immediate impact of American dispensationalism was the rise of
evangelical “Christian Zionism,” i.e. which holds that support for the State
of Israel is vital to America’s national well-being and prosperity. Marsden
defines “Christian Zionism” (which predates Jewish Zionism), so:

84 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Christian Zionism teaches that human history can be divided into seven
time periods or dispensations from the Garden of Eden (a literal belief in
creationism) through to the Second Coming of Jesus. According to such
beliefs, we are now in the end times of the sixth dispensation awaiting
the Second Coming of Jesus. Crucial to the return of Christ is a series of
biblical prophecies that are to be fulfilled centring on the State of Israel
and fulfilment of the Great Commission to take the gospel into the entire
world. The creation of the State of Israel in 1948, the conquest of the West
Bank and reunification of Jerusalem are considered signs that Christ’s
return is imminent. Christian Zionists believe that America, and indeed
the world, will be judged according to their dealings with Israel. In such
thinking, Genesis 12:3 refers to the blessings and curses of God being
dependent upon how people treat the Jewish people: if America blesses
(stands up for and supports) Israel, then God will bless America; if it does
not, then America will suffer.36
Here, America figures in the Apocalypse, although not centrally. From
the perspective of Christian Zionists—now under the leadership of Pastor
John C. Hagee and the Christians United for Israel (CUFI)—America still
has time to attract divine favor for its support of Israel, or at least to miti-
gate end-times judgment.
Another foreign-policy influence on the part of the Christian Right is
manifested in hard-line stances towards the Soviet Union. But the most
important impact on the agenda of the Christian Right is nicely summa-
rized by Harder:
Thus, by the end of the 1970s, a number of evangelical and fundamen-
talist writers had contributed to a certain view of America’s future and
its past. In their view, their nation had a righteous past and an ominous
future. Founded on godly principles, the nation had fallen away from
its high calling, largely due to the corruption of secular humanism. And
the storm clouds of Armageddon were gathering, giving their thinking a
renewed urgency.
This thinking coalesced into an ideology in which political activism, not
just evangelism, was seen as the way forward. By the late 1970s and early
1980s, several writers were suggesting that while the Great Tribulation was
inevitable, perhaps America could escape—and even mitigate—the effects
of the “pretribulation tribulation” that secular humanism was sure to cre-
ate. The chronology of the end times, in their view, was certain, even if
the date of the beginning of the end was unknown. But in the meantime,
before the rapture, American Christians could act to restore the nation to
its purported godly heritage, allowing it to once again be “a city on a hill.”37
Reclaiming America as a “Christian nation” in its origins and point-
ing to America’s mission and destiny as a “City upon a Hill” provided a

The Christian Right’s Myths and Visions of America 85
bedrock of belief on which to base the moral and political agenda of the
Christian Right.
The “Christian Nation” Myth
Is America a “Christian nation”? That depends on which Christian perspec-
tive is considered.
The ideology of the Christian Right is essentially an expression of Chris-
tian Americanism, which promotes a nationalized gospel with a political
theology. Such theology begins and ends—and rises and falls—with the
myth of America as a “Christian nation” or a “Christian America.” In his
2014 Ph.D, dissertation, Joseph Harder sums up the Christian Right’s
vision of America as a Christian nation quite nicely:
Nevertheless, the ideology of the Christian Right was not entirely amor-
phous, and a number of its components can be identified. First and
perhaps most important was the belief that America had a special rela-
tionship with God. Different Christian Right activists phrased this in
different ways—that America had a “covenant” with God, that it was
founded by “godly men” upon “godly principles,” that it was a “Christian
nation”—but all shared this sort of religious exceptionalism. It is difficult
to overstate the power of this version of American history for the Chris-
tian Right, for it provided both inspiration of and justification for political
activism. Asserting America’s “Christian roots” was more than simply an
observation about America’s past; it was also a mandate for the nation to
“return to God.”38
This Protestant reading of the Bible—this “vision of America’s mythic
religious past”39—is not basic to Christianity globally, but is a special
phenomenon of conservative Christianity in America. Protestants in
America—from the Pilgrims to the present—have borrowed the concept of
“Israel” and transferred it to America as the “New Israel.” In popular Chris-
tian culture within the United States today, America, in its pristine origins,
is seen as a “Christian nation,” harking back to the Founding Fathers. Yet,
somewhere along the way, America lost its true path to fulfilling its destiny
as a Christian nation.
The arguments for a “Christian America” have been summarized by
John Wilsey, Assistant Professor of History and Christian Apologetics at
Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary, Houston, Texas, who is also an
evangelical Christian:
Thirteen historical, philosophical, and theological themes, appearing
predominately in the Christian America literature since 1977, are sur-
veyed in order to set the stage for the critique. These themes include:

86 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
from an historical perspective: (1) the Christian faith of the founders; (2)
the Christian character of the sources drawn from by the founders; (3)
the Christian character of colonial documents and early state constitu-
tions; (4) the Christian character of early colleges; and (5) the powerful
Christian influence of the Great Awakening and radical Whig ideology on
the revolutionary generation. From a philosophical perspective: (6) the
original intent of the founders may be accurately discerned by applying
the same evangelical hermeneutical method as used when interpreting
Scripture; (7) the original intent of the founders was to build Christian-
ity into the heart of the nation; and (8) the role of the Enlightenment is
not as significant as the role of Christianity in the founding. And from a
theological perspective: (9) a providential view of history; (10) American
exceptionalism as evidence of God‘s unique blessing on the nation; (11)
America as God’s chosen nation, a new Israel; (12) liberty as a biblical
notion finding its consummate application in the civic life of America; and
(13) the Bible as the primary source of the founding national documents.
Finally, the commonly held belief among all the Christian America works
surveyed is that America must recover its Christian heritage from a cul-
ture that is drifting deeper into secularism.40
Here’s a six-part argument against the Christian America myth, offered
by Wilsey:
The critique follows six lines of argument: (1) the Christian America
thesis is ambiguous on the definition of “Christian nation”; (2) the
Christian America thesis is ambiguous in defining the contours of the
Enlightenment; (3) the Protestant consensus, which was predominant in
America from its founding until the early twentieth century, is no more;
(4) religious pluralism was the intent behind the First Amendment, and
it dominates contemporary American culture; (5) the Bible is not the pri-
mary source of the American founding; and (6) American exceptionalism,
while significant to the Christian America argument, is not sustainable
theologically or historically.41
Part and parcel of the belief in America as a “Christian nation”—advo-
cated by the Christian Right with an evangelistic impulse—is what Marsden
calls the “secularization of this American gospel” on which “the American
Creed, American Civil Religion and American Exceptionalism” is based.
The first of these three pillars of the “American Gospel” is the “Ameri-
can Creed,” which is “an ideological commitment to the democratic, legal
and individualistic principles enshrined in the American Constitution,
Bill of Rights and Declaration of Independence.”42 The “American Creed”
embraces, inter alia, “belief in liberty, egalitarianism (of opportunity rather
than outcome), individualism, populism and laissez-faire.”43

The Christian Right’s Myths and Visions of America 87
The second pillar of the “American Gospel” is the “American Civil Religion,”
which seeks to unify Americans of all persuasions around a core of shared val-
ues of the American Creed. “American Civil Religion” comprises four elements:
(1) belief in a Supreme Being; (2) a conviction that Americans are favored by
God; (3) Americans have a divine mission to do good throughout the world;
and (4) national ceremonies are suffused with religious symbols and allusions
that “assume a religious aura and perform religious functions” in what may be
characterized as “a hybrid faith that is undergirded by an exceptionalism which
contends that the United States was chosen by God to fulfil a unique role in the
world.”44 Whenever the “Star-Spangled Banner” is patriotically sung, or the
“Pledge of Allegiance” is recited, such convictions are reinforced.
“American Exceptionalism,” the third pillar of the “American Gospel,”
is underscored by a sense of international responsibility that Providence is
calling upon America to promote democracy and freedom worldwide.
The “City Upon A Hill” Myth
America as a “Christian nation” is linked with the idea that America is also
a “City upon a Hill.”
John Winthrop’s biblical (Matthew 5:14) “City upon a Hill” metaphor
(from his 1630 sermon, “A Model of Christian Charity”) is at the heart of
America’s evolving national identity. Intertwined with other motifs—such
as “God’s New Israel”—the Christian Right invokes this motif to elevate
America to the status of God’s favored nation. As a result, this national
myth has become part of America’s civil religion.
No public figure has used the “City upon a Hill” metaphor to greater
effect than Ronald Reagan. A staunch ally of the new Christian Right, Presi-
dent Ronald Reagan has, a dozen times—most notably in 1974, as governor
of California45 and 1989, as President of the United States—invoked John
Winthrop’s phrase to hold up America as a model society to which the eyes
of the world should turn. On January 11, 1989, President Ronald Reagan,
speaking from the White House, concluded his “Farewell Address to the
Nation” with these memorable words:
The past few days when I’ve been at that window upstairs, I’ve thought
a bit of the “shining city upon a hill.” The phrase comes from John
Winthrop, who wrote it to describe the America he imagined. What he
imagined was important because he was an early Pilgrim, an early free-
dom man. He journeyed here on what today we’d call a little wooden boat;
and like the other Pilgrims, he was looking for a home that would be free.
I’ve spoken of the shining city all my political life, but I don’t know if I ever
quite communicated what I saw when I said it. But in my mind it was a tall,
proud city built on rocks stronger than oceans, wind-swept, God-blessed,

88 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
and teeming with people of all kinds living in harmony and peace; a city with
free ports that hummed with commerce and creativity. And if there had to be
city walls, the walls had doors and the doors were open to anyone with the
will and the heart to get here. That’s how I saw it, and see it still.
And how stands the city on this winter night? More prosperous, more
secure, and happier than it was 8 years ago. But more than that: After 200
years, two centuries, she still stands strong and true on the granite ridge,
and her glow has held steady no matter what storm. And she’s still a bea-
con, still a magnet for all who must have freedom, for all the pilgrims from
all the lost places who are hurtling through the darkness, toward home. . . .
And so, goodbye, God bless you, and God bless the United States of
America.46
Reagan was an ally of the Christian Right. Reagan opposed abortion,
supported school prayer, and, in the rhetoric of binary, black-and-white dis-
course, famously vilified the Soviet Union as the “evil empire.” Yet, true to
his office as President, his use of “God bless” was universal, transcending
dogma and ideology alike.
Historian Richard Gamble, in his book, In Search of the City on a Hill: The
Making and Unmaking of an American Myth (2012), shows how this catalytic
catchphrase—the “City upon a Hill,” which launched a thousand ship-of-
state speeches—“helped make America what it is today” as well as “how
America helped make the metaphor what it never was.”47 The last chapter
conveys Gamble’s parting message, a call to renounce national idolatry:
Christians owe a proper degree of allegiance to their nation. Christians
ought to love their earthly home with well-ordered affections. But they
must be on guard against idolatry in whatever form it takes. . . . In Chris-
tian theology, it is simply not true that America is the city on the hill, not
now, not ever. To seek to protect America from this falsehood is not to do
her any dishonor. Quite the opposite. It spares her from delusion. Proper
love refuses to cooperate with the effort to divinize America.48
No need to throw out the baby with the bathwater here. Whatever the
“City upon a Hill” originally may (or may not) have meant bear little direct
relationship to what it may mean to the Christian Right now. For it is a live
metaphor, and no amount of historical revisionism will ever shake the faith
of American evangelicals in this ideal characterization of America’s world
role as an exemplar nation.
The Christian Right’s Positive Visions of America
The Christian Right’s vision of America is all-embracing as it is ambitious.
In Kyle’s description of it, the Christian Right has a paradoxical relationship

The Christian Right’s Myths and Visions of America 89
to America, reacting against “liberal” trends, while idealizing conservative
Christian values as inherently American:
In the political arena, the evangelical paradox runs deep. On one hand,
the very birth pangs of Christian Right can be seen in its resistance
to modern cultural trends—secular humanism, feminism, abortion on
demand, gay rights, homosexuality, liberalism, and an expanded gov-
ernment. In this sense, the Christian Right is truly a counter-cultural
movement. On the other hand, few religious bodies have Americanized
the Christian faith as have conservative Protestants. You name it, they
have Christianized it—America’s heritage, democracy, market economy,
foreign policy, military involvement, and great wealth. In baptizing
America’s political and economic systems, evangelicals tend to blur the
distinctions between conservative religion and politics. They are seen as
one and the same. Conservative political celebrities are often regarded
as evangelical Christians, despite a life style that might call such a con-
clusion into question.49
“You name it, they have Christianized it,” pretty much sums up the Chris-
tian Right’s vision of America, where the line between piety and politics is
blurred, if not obliterated. “Democratic and Christian values are compat-
ible,” Kyle further observes, “and they are so intertwined that they are often
confused.”50 God and country, from the perspective of the Christian Right,
is where church and state should be united, not separated. Separation of
church and state exists institutionally, but not morally. The strength of
the nation requires moral fiber. America’s destiny demands it. Otherwise,
America will pay the price for rejecting God’s will. Politics involves a moral
choice, which is why constituents of the Christian Right may be described
as “values voters.”
The Christian Right’s Negative Visions of America
The Christian Right has sometimes resorted to alarmism as a strategy to get
its message across to the American public, where fear of the Apocalypse can
instill a repentant “fear of God” for evangelistic purposes. For instance, in
2011, Patrick J. Buchanan (popularly known as “Pat Buchanan,”) published
Suicide of a Superpower: Will America Survive to 2025?—a foreboding vision of
things to come. If America continues on its current course, a path to perdi-
tion may follow:
When the faith dies, the culture dies, the civilization dies, the people die.
That is the progression. And as the faith that gave birth to the West is
dying in the West, . . . we are in the Indian summer of our civilization.
Historian Arnold Toynbee wrote, “Civilizations die from suicide, not by

90 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
murder.” And so it is. We are the Prodigal Sons who squandered their
inheritance; but unlike the Prodigal Son, we can’t go home again.51
These are dire forecasts, to be sure. Suicide of a Superpower is a message of
doom and gloom. The Redeemer Nation cannot save the world if it cannot
save itself. In a certain sense, the message of doom and gloom, on a collec-
tive level, is really one of repentance and forgiveness, on an individual level.
Evangelism, and the righteousness of Christian morality itself, is never far
behind the political activism of the Christian Right.
The Christian Right: Conclusions
In The Mighty and the Almighty: Reflections on America, God, and World Affairs
(2006), former Secretary of State, Madeleine Albright, now a professor of
foreign affairs at Georgetown University, acknowledges the right of the
Christian Right to advocate their moral and political agenda. “Articulating
moral principles is what movements to establish international norms are in
business to do,” Albright observes. “That is precisely how military aggres-
sion, slavery, piracy, torture, religious persecution, and racial discrimination
have come to be outlawed.”52 In the foreign policy arena, however, Marsden
sees the influence of the Christian Right as having a detrimental effect:
The Christian Right have enjoyed success during the Bush years. How-
ever, their influence is damaging to U.S. interests in the short, medium
and long term: by placing America against egalitarian progress in interna-
tional forums; preventing measures designed to improve women’s health,
protect children and provide equality to homosexuals; by allying them-
selves with reactionary and human rights-abusing governments around
the world to support policies that restrict women’s right to control their
reproductive health; by placing the health of people, mainly in the devel-
oping world, at risk by restricting access to abortion and sex education;
by banning stem-cell research designed to find cures for life-threatening
illnesses; and by withholding condoms, the most effective weapon in the
war against HIV/AIDS.53
Not only are the international implications of the Christian Right’s
agenda problematic as to what might be characterized as its moral (i.e. sex-
ual) agenda, so also are environmental and religious issues of concern, as
Marsden goes on to explain:
Christian Right denial of the anthropogenic causation of global warming
continues to put the world at risk of environmental disaster by reducing
pressure on the U.S. government to cooperate with the international com-
munity and accept mandatory reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.

The Christian Right’s Myths and Visions of America 91
Conservative evangelicals have led support for going to war and main-
taining the occupation in Iraq. The Islamophobia expressed by leaders of
the Christian Right reveals a deep-seated antipathy towards the Muslim
world and seeks to identify Islam, rather than radical Islam, as America’s
enemy. The Christian Right’s proselytizing in the Muslim world, evan-
gelization within the U.S. military, and criticism of Muhammad and of
Islam as a religion of peace, and unequivocal support for Israel despite its
appalling treatment of Palestinians in the Occupied Territories—all create
the impression within the Muslim world that America is leading a crusade
against them.54
The Christian Right strives to preserve traditional American values,
which are appreciated as Judeo-Christian values. They are seen as one
and the same. To abandon the one is to forsake the other. The Christian
Right’s myths of America bolster their corresponding visions of Amer-
ica. Myths serve as rhetoric, and operate as code words for the Christian
Right’s values-based moral vision of America. According to Harder, the
rise of the Christian Right “saw an updating of the Christian nationalist
myth, resulting in a new effort to put it into political service.”55 For the
Christian Right, “America is a Christian nation in which patriotism is next
to godliness.”56
Such patriotism is no mere flag-waving, however. Far from it. The Chris-
tian Right has exerted considerable influence in recent American elections.
Despite a poor track record in successfully prosecuting its moral agenda,
the Christian Right, off and on, has impacted American foreign policy in
defining America’s world role. This is no small undertaking. The Christian
Right continues to be a force to be reckoned with, in advance of the Day of
Reckoning that is expected imminently.
What is the future of the Christian Right? Daniel K. Williams, author
of God’s Own Party: The Making of the Christian Right, states that the “cul-
ture wars” are far from over, and continue into twenty-first century. Efforts
by evangelicals use the Republican Party to promote a a religiously based
code of morality for the good of society is expected to continue well into
the future. Their previous attempts, for the most part, failed, according to
Williams, “because the majority of Americans were unwilling to abandon
the values of pluralism, tolerance, and egalitarianism.”57 Anecdotal illustra-
tions of this very point that Williams is making can be seen in speeches
that President Obama made in 2009 and earlier, in 2007. On April 6, 2009,
speaking to the press from the Cankaya Palace in Ankara, Turkey, President
Barack Obama, a self-professed Christian, privileged America’s present-day
pluralism over its Christian origins:
And I’ve said before that one of the great strengths of the United States
is—although as I mentioned, we have a very large Christian population,
we do not consider ourselves a Christian nation or a Jewish nation or a

92 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Muslim nation; we consider ourselves a nation of citizens who are bound
by ideals and a set of values.”58
President Obama is a member of the United Church of Christ (UCC).
And so it is no surprise that previously, on June 23, 2007, then-Senator
Obama addressed a session of the UCC’s General Synod (celebrating the
UCC’s 50th Anniversary) at the Civic Center in Hartford, Connecticut.
Then-Senator Obama took the opportunity to witness to his own Christian
faith. He also criticized the Christian Right:
So doing the Lord’s work is a thread that’s run through our politics since
the very beginning. And it puts the lie to the notion that the separation
of church and state in America means faith should have no role in pub-
lic life. Imagine Lincoln’s Second Inaugural without its reference to “the
judgments of the Lord.” Or King’ s “I Have a Dream” speech without its
reference to “all of God’s children.” Or President Kennedy’s Inaugural with-
out the words, “here on Earth, God’s work must truly be our own.” At each
of these junctures, by summoning a higher truth and embracing a universal
faith, our leaders inspired ordinary people to achieve extraordinary things.
But somehow, somewhere along the way, faith stopped being used to
bring us together and started being used to drive us apart. It got hijacked.
Part of it’s because of the so-called leaders of the Christian Right, who’ve
been all too eager to exploit what divides us. At every opportunity, they’ve
told evangelical Christians that Democrats disrespect their values and dis-
like their Church, while suggesting to the rest of the country that religious
Americans care only about issues like abortion and gay marriage; school
prayer and intelligent design. There was even a time when the Christian
Coalition determined that its number one legislative priority was tax cuts
for the rich. I don’t know what Bible they’re reading, but it doesn’t jibe
with my version.59
Here, Obama, speaking as a Christian as well as a politician, contrasts the
Christian Right with “a higher truth and embracing a universal faith” that
America’s leaders have publicly invoked. All along, Obama has consistently
rejected the “Christian nation” myth. Predictably, media response to Presi-
dent Obama’s 2009 remarks in Ankara was mixed. But the policy enunciated
by President Obama is clear: America is multicultural and therefore multi-
faith. Religious values can be translated into secular ideals that can then be
debated and decided in the civic sphere as matters of public discourse. “Con-
servative Christian leaders,” Williams concludes, “still have faith that, with
the help of God and the Republican Party, they can restore a Christian moral
order to the nation.60 For this to happen, it would appear that the Christian
Right will need to find more common ground domestically, as it has strategi-
cally done internationally, especially at the United Nations.

The Christian Right’s Myths and Visions of America 93
Notes

1. David Gelernter, Americanism: The Fourth Great Western Religion (New York:
Doubleday, 2007).

2. Governor Ronald Reagan, “We Will Be A City Upon A Hill” (January 25,
1974). First Conservative Political Action Conference. See http://rea-
gan2020.us/speeches/City_Upon_A_Hill.asp. (Accessed November 13,
2014.)

3. See e.g. Daniel K. Williams, God’s Own Party: The Making of the Christian Right
(New York: Oxford University Press, 2010); Geoffrey Layman, The Great
Divide: Religious and Cultural Conflict in American Party Politics (New York:
Columbia University Press, 2001); Justin Watson, The Christian Coalition:
Dreams of Restoration, Demands for Recognition (New York: St. Martin’s Press,
1997); William Martin, With God On Our Side: The Rise of the Religious Right
in America (New York: Broadway Books, 1996); Duane Murray Oldfield,
The Right and the Righteous: The Christian Right Confronts the Republican Party
(Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, 1996); Michael Lienesch,
Redeeming America: Piety and Politics in the New Christian Right (Chapel Hill:
University of North Carolina Press, 1993); Walter Capps, The New Religious
Right: Piety, Patriotism, and Politics (Columbia: University of South Carolina
Press, 1990); Steve Bruce, The Rise and Fall of the New Christian Right: Con-
servative Protestant Politics in America, 1978–1988 (Oxford: Clarendon Press,
1988); Allen Hertzke, Representing God in Washington: The Role of Religious
Lobbies in the American Polity (Knoxville: University of Tennessee Press,
1988).

4. Lee Marsden, For God’s Sake: The Christian Right and US Foreign Policy (Lon-
don/New York: Zed Books, 2008), 5.

5. Richard Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity (New Brunswick,
NJ: Transaction Publishers, 2006), 167.

6. Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity, 167.

7. Francis A. Schaeffer, A Christian Manifesto (Westchester, IL: Crossway
Books, 1981).

8. Schaeffer, A Christian Manifesto, 72.

9. Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity, 188.

10. Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity, 187.

11. Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity, 61.

12. Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity, 179.

13. Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity, 188.

14. Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity, 189.

15. Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity, 168.

16. Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity, 169.

17. Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity, 169.

18. Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity, 191.

19. Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity, 169.

20. Richard G. Kyle, Apocalyptic Fever: End-Time Prophecies in Modern America
(Eugene, OR: Cascade Books, 2012), 208.

21. Jennifer S. Butler, Born Again: The Christian Right Globalized (London/Ann
Arbor, MI: Pluto Press, 2006), 10.

94 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America

22. Butler, The Christian Right Globalized, 12.

23. Butler, The Christian Right Globalized, 8.

24. Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (Norad), Lobbying for
Faith and Family: A Study of Religious NGOs at the United Nations (Oslo: Norad,
2013), 3.

25. Doris Buss and Didi Herman, Globalizing Family Values: The Christian Right in
International Politics (Minneapolis/London: University of Minnesota Press,
2003).

26. Norad, A Study of Religious NGOs at the United Nations, 5.

27. Norad, A Study of Religious NGOs at the United Nations, 9.

28. Norad, A Study of Religious NGOs at the United Nations, 15.

29. Norad, A Study of Religious NGOs at the United Nations, 15–16.

30. Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity, 90.

31. Qtd. in Amy Johnson Frykholm, Rapture Culture: Left Behind in Evangelical
America (Oxford/New York: Oxford University Press, 2004), 176.

32. Paul McGuire, A Prophecy of the Future of America (2013, self-published). See
http://www.paulmcguire.us/a-prophecy-of-the-future-of-america.html.
(Accessed December 7, 2014.)

33. See “Paul McGuire: World News and Prophetic Updates.” See http://www.
paulmcguire.org/html/about.html. (Accessed December 7, 2014.)

34. Harder, “Heal Their Land”: Evangelical Political Theology from the Great Awaken-
ing to the Moral Majority, 22.

35. Harder, “Heal Their Land”: Evangelical Political Theology from the Great Awaken-
ing to the Moral Majority, 162.

36. Marsden, For God’s Sake: The Christian Right and US Foreign Policy, 8–9.

37. Harder, “Heal Their Land”: Evangelical Political Theology from the Great Awaken-
ing to the Moral Majority, 196–197.

38. Joseph D. Harder, “Heal Their Land”: Evangelical Political Theology from the
Great Awakening to the Moral Majority (Ph.D. dissertation; Lincoln, NB: Uni-
versity of Nebraska, 2014), 8.

39. Harder, “Heal Their Land”: Evangelical Political Theology from the Great Awaken-
ing to the Moral Majority, 22.

40. John David Wilsey, America as the City upon a Hill: An Historical, Philosophical,
and Theological Critique of the Historiographical Construal of America as a Chris-
tian Nation. Ph.D. dissertation. (Wake Forest, NC: Southeastern Baptist
Theological Seminary, 2009), x. (The present writer has numbered these
points consecutively, whereas the original provides three sets of numbered
statements.)

41. Wilsey, America as the City upon a Hill, xi.

42. Marsden, For God’s Sake: The Christian Right and US Foreign Policy, 13.

43. Marsden, For God’s Sake: The Christian Right and US Foreign Policy, 13–14.

44. Marsden, For God’s Sake: The Christian Right and US Foreign Policy, 14.

45. Governor Ronald Reagan, “We Will Be A City Upon A Hill” (January 25,
1974). First Conservative Political Action Conference. See http://rea-
gan2020.us/speeches/City_Upon_A_Hill.asp. (Accessed November 13,
2014.) (2)

46. President Ronald Reagan, “Farewell Address to the Nation.” White House.
(January 11, 1989). See  http://reagan2020.us/speeches/Farewell.asp. Video:

The Christian Right’s Myths and Visions of America 95
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UKVsq2daR8. (Accessed November
22, 2014.)

47. Richard M. Gamble, In Search of the City on a Hill: The Making and Unmaking
of an American Myth. New York/London: Continuum, 2012), 5.

48. Gamble, In Search of the City on a Hill, 183–184.

49. Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity, 208–209.

50. Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity, 31.

51. Patrick J. Buchanan, Suicide of a Superpower: Will America Survive to 2025?
(New York: Thomas Dunne Books, 2011), vii.

52. Madeleine Albright, with Bill Woodward, The Mighty and the Almighty: Reflec-
tions on America, God, and World Affairs (New York: HarperCollins, 2006),
87.

53. Marsden, For God’s Sake: The Christian Right and US Foreign Policy, 250.

54. Marsden, For God’s Sake: The Christian Right and US Foreign Policy, 250–251.

55. Harder, “Heal Their Land”: Evangelical Political Theology from the Great Awaken-
ing to the Moral Majority, 22.

56. Marsden, For God’s Sake: The Christian Right and US Foreign Policy, 8.

57. Daniel K. Williams, God’s Own Party: The Making of the Christian Right (New
York: Oxford University Press, 2010), 276.

58. President Barack Obama, “Joint Press Availability with President
Obama and President Gul of Turkey.” (The White House, Office of
the Press Secretary, Press Release, April 6, 2009). See http://www.
whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/joint-press-availability-with-president-
obama-and-president-gul-turkey. For the video, see https://www.youtube.
com/watch?v=QIVd7YT0oWA. (Accessed November 21, 2014.)

59. Senator Barack Obama, “A Politics of Conscience.” United Church of
Christ (UCC), General Synod (celebrating the UCC’s 50th Anniversary),
Civic Center, Hartford, Connecticut. (June 23, 2007.) See http://www.ucc.
org/news/significant-speeches/a-politics-of-conscience.html.
(Accessed
November 21, 2014.)

60. Williams, God’s Own Party: The Making of the Christian Right, 276.

Figure 5.1. National Cathedral, Washington, DC, July, 2007. “Washington National
Cathedral is called to be a spiritual home for the nation. Vision Statement. The
National Cathedral will be a catalyst for spiritual harmony in our nation, renewal
in the churches, reconciliation among faiths, and compassion in our world.” See
http://www.cathedral.org/about/mission.shtml. (Photo courtesy of David Smith.)

CHAPTER 5
Catholic Myths and
Visions of America
Mr. President . . . I wish to extol the blessing and gifts that America has
received from God and cultivated, and which have become the true values
of the whole American experiment in the past two centuries. . . . The more
powerful a nation is, the greater becomes its international responsibility,
the greater also must be its commitment to the betterment of the lot of
those whose very humanity is constantly being threatened by want and
need. . . . America needs freedom to be herself and to fulfill her mission
in the world.
—John Paul II (1987)1
There is no official Catholic vision of America. But there almost was. It
verged on heresy.
Given the diverse nature of “fissiparous Protestantism,”2 there is no offi-
cial Protestant vision of America. This is due, in large measure, to the lack
of a central authority in Protestantism generally. Similarly, there is no offi-
cial Catholic vision of America. But this is not for lack of a central authority,
but because of the presence of it. The intervention of the papacy—the central
authority of the Roman Catholic church—put an end to a movement known
as the “Americanist controversy.”
The so-called Americanists argued that America has a divine destiny.
William L. Portier, Distinguished Professor of Religious Studies of the Uni-
versity of Dayton, provides one of the clearest introductions as to who the
Americanists were, and how the Americanists’ vision of America relates
back to that of the Puritans, and eventually to the “mythical” belief in
“American exceptionalism” that is part of the American Protestant legacy:
Many of us live in the United States of America. Looking back to John
Winthrop’s fateful identification of the new land and covenanted people
with the gospel “City upon a Hill,” there has been a strong tendency for

98 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
citizens of the United States to sacralize their country, to see it as chosen
by God. . . . This mythical contrast often plays out politically and his-
torically in “American exceptionalism,” a fervent belief in the virtuous
uniqueness of our political institutions and way of life.3
The key players in promoting this proposed Catholic belief—Orestes
Brownson, Isaac Hecker, John Ireland and James Gibbons, John A. Ryan,
and John Courtney Murray—are introduced by Portier as follows:
This tendency to look upon our country as providential entered Catholic
thought in the United States with Orestes Brownson. His 1855 essay, “Mis-
sion of America,” founds what is sometimes called the tradition of Catholic
“Americanism” and gives classic expression to the notion that there is a
providential fit between Catholicism and American institutions. Think of
the heroes of American Catholic historiography. They are the heroes of the
Catholic Americanist tradition: Isaac Hecker, John Ireland and James Gib-
bons, John A. Ryan, and John Courtney Murray. The idea that Catholics
have what America needs has increasingly had its counterpart in the idea
that the Church needs America to do its work in the world.4
As will be explained in more detail further in this chapter, the Ameri-
canists were nearly pronounced heretics by papal decree. On January 22,
1899, Pope Leo XIII (1810–1903) promulgated an encyclical, known as
Testem Benevolentiae Nostrae, addressed to “Our Beloved Son, James Cardi-
nal Gibbons, Cardinal Priest of the Title Sancta Maria, Beyond the Tiber,
Archbishop of Baltimore,” in which the Supreme Pontiff, towards the end
of his encyclical, expresses this concern: “From the foregoing it is mani-
fest, beloved son, that we are not able to give approval to those views
which, in their collective sense, are called by some ‘Americanism’.”5 Pope
Leo XIII admonished Catholics, inter alia, to avoid (1) exalting “active”
over “passive” virtues, (2) asserting the superiority of the “natural” to
the “supernatural,” and (3) reducing the Catholic faith to the surround-
ing culture. These warnings of the doctrinally dangerous tendencies of
Americanism having been authoritatively proclaimed, the advance of the
Americanist movement was effectively halted. Thus, Catholic American-
ism has often been called a “phantom heresy,” because it never developed
to such an extent as to be branded an actual heresy. None of the Ameri-
canists was branded a “heretic.” The immediate threat of Americanism
was contained.
Yet certain features of Americanist beliefs regarding America’s world role
and divine destiny have, in fact, been echoed approvingly in some remarkable
papal statements regarding America. These later papal remarks, primarily
diplomatic in nature, have accorded America with extraordinary recogni-
tion. For this reason, one may begin with the most recent and relevant

Catholic Myths and Visions of America 99
papal disquisitions on America, and then hark back to the roots of this
Catholic discussion of the destiny of America, which began, in earnest, with
the writings of Orestes Brownson (1803–1876), then further developed by
the Americanists themselves. In the several papal comments on America
presented in the next section, the reader will note the purpose of these
comments, which is, generally, to encourage American political leaders not
to lose sight of America’s potential and purpose in exercising its enormous
influence in world affairs for the betterment of humanity.
Papal Praise of America
Like dreams, some myths have the potential to become self-fulfilling—
that is, capable of being actualized. Alive to America’s vast potential, the
Vatican has recently commented on America, in which the familiar rheto-
ric of America’s mission and destiny is judiciously invoked for rhetorical
effect. That approach, after all, is part and parcel of effective diplomacy. For
instance, on Thursday, April 17, 2008, Pope Benedict XVI, speaking in the
“Rotunda” Hall of the Pope John Paul II Cultural Center of Washington,
D.C., had this to say about America:
Americans have always valued the ability to worship freely and in accor-
dance with their conscience. Alexis de Tocqueville, the French historian
and observer of American affairs, was fascinated with this aspect of the
nation. He remarked that this is a country in which religion and free-
dom are “intimately linked” in contributing to a stable democracy that
fosters social virtues and participation in the communal life of all its citi-
zens. In urban areas, it is common for individuals from different cultural
backgrounds and religions to engage with one another daily in commer-
cial, social and educational settings. Today, in classrooms throughout the
country, young Christians, Jews, Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists, and indeed
children of all religions sit side-by-side, learning with one another and
from one another. This diversity gives rise to new challenges that spark a
deeper reflection on the core principles of a democratic society. May oth-
ers take heart from your experience, realizing that a united society can
indeed arise from a plurality of peoples—“E pluribus unum”: “out of many,
one”—provided that all recognize religious liberty as a basic civil right.6
Note how the American secular value of religious freedom—one of the
founding principles of America itself—is given religious approbation. Here,
America is extolled as an exemplar that “others” should seek to emulate.
Now, the American motto—“E pluribus unum”—is taken as a religiously
approved maxim. This is consistent with previous papal statements. For
instance, on Tuesday, January 27, 2004, Pope John Paul II received Vice

100 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
President Dick Cheney, who represented President George W. Bush. This is
what Pope John Paul II had to say:
Mr. Vice President,
I am pleased to welcome you and your family to the Vatican and to
receive the cordial greetings which you bring from President Bush. The
American people have always cherished the fundamental values of free-
dom, justice and equality. In a world marked by conflict, injustice and
division, the human family needs to foster these values in its search for unity, peace
and respect for the dignity of all. I encourage you and your fellow-citizens
to work, at home and abroad, for the growth of international cooperation and
solidarity in the service of that peace which is the deepest aspiration of all men
and women. Upon you and all the American people I cordially invoke the
abundant blessings of Almighty God.7
What the 2008 and 2004 statements have in common is an implicit sense
of America’s mission to promote international peace and religious freedom
as a “basic civil right” and as one of the “core principles of a democratic
society.” This mission is not America’s alone, however. So, while America
is singled out as exemplary in this noble endeavor, America is not given a
special status. Thus, America is exemplary, but not exceptional. As one may
see, it was any Catholic countenance of American exceptionalism to which the
Vatican has taken official exception. Even so, Pope John Paul II has come close
to recognizing some sense of America’s spiritual destiny:
To everyone I repeat on this occasion what I said on that memorable day in
1979 when I arrived in Boston: “On my part I come to you—America—with
sentiments of friendship, reverence and esteem. I come as one who already
knows you and loves you, as one who wishes you to fulfill completely your
noble destiny of service to the world.” . . . And finally I come to join you as
you celebrate the Bicentennial of that great document, the Constitution of
the United States of America. I willingly join you in your prayer of thanks-
giving to God for the providential way in which the Constitution has served
the people of this nation for two centuries: for the union it has established,
the tranquillity and peace it has ensured, the general welfare it has pro-
moted, and the blessings of liberty it has secured.8
Note how the U.S. Constitution is praised as a “great document,” and
how “providential” was the way in which the Constitution had served to
preserve the blessings of freedom for two centuries. Perhaps the fullest
expression of papal praise of America was occasioned on the visit of Pope
John Paul II to Vizcaya Museum, Miami, on Thursday, September 10, 1987,
where he addressed President Ronald Reagan. Highlights of this extraordi-
nary view of America, from the supreme authority of the Catholic church
itself, are as follows:

Catholic Myths and Visions of America 101
Mr. President,

1. . . . In addressing you I express my own deep respect for the constitu-
tional structure of this democracy, . . . I willingly pay honour to the
United States for what she has accomplished for her own people,
for all those whom she has embraced in a cultural creativity and
welcomed into an indivisible national unity, according to her own
motto: E pluribus unum. . . . Also today, I wish to extol the blessing
and gifts that America has received from God and cultivated, and
which have become the true values of the whole American experiment
in the past two centuries.

2. For all of you this is a special hour in your history: the celebration
of the Bicentennial of your Constitution. It is a time to recognize the
meaning of that document and to reflect on important aspects of
the constitutionalism that produced it. It is a time to recall the
original American political faith with its appeal to the sovereignty
of God. To celebrate the origin of the United States is to stress
those moral and spiritual principles, those ethical concerns that influenced
your Founding Fathers and have been incorporated into the experi-
ence of America. . . .

3. Among the many admirable values of this nation there is one that stands
out in particular. It is freedom. An experience in ordered freedom is
truly a cherished part of the history of this land. This is the freedom that
America is called to live and guard and to transmit. She is called to
exercise it in such a way that it will also benefit the cause of free-
dom in other nations and among other peoples. . . .
The effort to guard and perfect the gift of freedom must also include
the relentless pursuit of truth. . . .

4. . . . In continuity with what I said to the President of the United
States in 1979 I would now repeat: “Attachment to human val-
ues and to ethical concerns, which have been a hallmark of the
American people, must be situated, especially in the present con-
text of the growing interdependence of peoples across the globe,
within the framework of the view that the common good of soci-
ety embraces not just the individual nation to which one belongs
but the citizens of the whole world. . . . The more powerful a
nation is, the greater becomes its international responsibility, the
greater also must be its commitment to the betterment of the lot
of those whose very humanity is constantly being threatened by
want and need. . . .

5. . . . America needs freedom to be herself and to fulfill her mission in the
world. . . . A new birth of freedom is repeatedly necessary: freedom to
exercise responsibility and generosity, freedom to meet the chal-
lenge of serving humanity, the freedom necessary to fulfill human
destiny, the freedom to live by truth, to defend it against what-
ever distorts and manipulates it, the freedom to observe God’s

102 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
law—which is the supreme standard of all human liberty—the
freedom to live as children of God, secure and happy: the freedom to
be America in that constitutional democracy which was conceived
to be “one Nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice
for all.”9
The reader should note that these papal remarks are not binding pro-
nouncements. They are not issued ex cathedra (“from the chair” [of St.
Peter]); that is, these statements are not binding upon Catholics. Like a
Supreme Court ruling, these statements are merely dicta, not decisions. Simi-
larly, these papal remarks are dicta, not doctrine. Still, papal comments on
America are significant (to American Catholics, at least), yet do not rise to
the threshold of a full-blown American exceptionalism.
The Americanist Myth of America
America, some Catholics believe, has a destiny. But that is not the same
thing as Manifest Destiny. This is a crucial distinction. There were American
Catholic writers and leaders, however, who did hold to a view of Manifest
Destiny. Among these was Orestes Brownson,10 who was an avowed sup-
porter of Manifest Destiny.
In 1844, after a spiritual odyssey, Orestes Brownson converted to Cathol-
icism. Prior to his conversion, Brownson had been, in turn, a Presbyterian,
a Universalist, and agnostic Unitarian, a world-reformer, and a Transcen-
dentalist.11 From 1844 forward, Brownson’s renown was that of a Catholic
public philosopher. A gifted writer, Brownson’s rhetorical style has been
colorfully epitomized: “There is in Brownson’s style a rhetorical habit of
using the harsh blow of a miner’s sledge when the tap of a carpenter’s ham-
mer would be more effective.” Moreover, he had an “inclination to use a
battle ax to crush a butterfly.”12 Here is Brownson’s most well-known state-
ment on Manifest Destiny:
There is more than meets the eye in the popular expression, “Manifest
Destiny.” We have a manifest destiny, and the world sees and confesses it,
some with fear and some with hope; but it is not precisely that supposed
by our journalists, or pretended by our filibusterers,—although these
filibusters may be unconsciously and unintentionally preparing for its ful-
fillment. It may be our manifest destiny to extend our government over
the whole American continent, but that is in itself alone a small affair, and
no worthy object of true American ambition. . . . The manifest destiny
of this country is something far higher, nobler, and more spiritual,—the
realization, we should say, of the Christian ideal of society for both the
Old World and the New.13

Catholic Myths and Visions of America 103
This unabashed support for Manifest Destiny did not reflect an official
Catholic stance. Although Brownson was arguably the most influential Cath-
olic philosopher of his era, his views were fairly idiosyncratic—some of them
even extravagant. Moreover, Brownson did not represent a school of thought
within the Catholic communion. Rather, he was a splendid individualist. Like
his pre-Catholic peregrinations, Brownson’s religious and political views were
in a constant state of flux. For that reason, he is occasionally referred to in
scholarly literature as a “weathervane.”14 Brownson’s inclusion in this chap-
ter is principally because he provides something of a bridge, or transition, to
the Americanists, who were definitely a group representing what might well
be regarded as a “school of thought,” as it were. Orestes Brownson is signifi-
cant because he was the immediate ideological precursor of the Americanists
and had a direct influence on Archbishop John Ireland (1838–1918) of Balti-
more, one of the principal leaders of the Americanist movement.
Brownson’s view of Manifest Destiny, it should be added, cannot be
reduced to specious patriotic jingoism, for it had a decidedly Catholic dimen-
sion to it. His essay, “The Mission of America,” can be best understood if
one attaches the word “Catholic” to it. Thus, the “Catholic” mission of
America is for Americans to discover in Catholic values the highest expres-
sion of American ideals. In fine, the mission of America, as professed by
Orestes Brownson, was its Catholic role in reforming civilization through-
out the world. And herein lies a key to several of the other religious visions
of America presented in this book: To understand what the “mission of
America” is—from any particular religious perspective (that is, if America
is generally regarded in a positive light)—one simply has to add that reli-
gion’s name before the phrase, “mission of America,” whether that mission
may reflect a Baha’i, Buddhist, Mormon, or other religiously nuanced vision
of America. In his major work on America, The American Republic (1866),15
Orestes Brownson speaks of the political separation of church and state
operationally, but of the necessity of the fusion of church and state at the
level of principle:
But the United States have a religious as well as a political destiny, for reli-
gion and politics go together. Church and state, as governments, are separate
indeed, but the principles on which the state is founded have their origin
and ground in the spiritual order—in the principles revealed or affirmed by
religion—and are inseparable from them. There is no state without God,
any more than there is a church without Christ or the Incarnation. An athe-
ist may be a politician, but if there were no God there could be no politics.
Theological principles are the basis of political principles. . . . The effect of
this mission of our country fully realized, would be to harmonize church
and state, religion and politics, not by absorbing either in the other, or by
obliterating the natural distinction between them, but by conforming both
to the real or Divine order, which is supreme and immutable.16

104 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Thus, in Brownson’s view, America can fulfill its “Catholic” mission by
becoming more “catholic” in promoting a secular application of religious
principles. One would think that, to a lesser degree at least, other countries
could contribute, each in its own way, to this larger sense of humanitarian
and divine mission—that is, of “Providence, or God operating through his-
torical facts.”17 Not so:
Of all the states or colonies on this continent, the American Republic
alone has a destiny, or the ability to add any thing to the civilization of
the race. Canada and the other British Provinces, Mexico and Central
America, Columbia and Brazil, and the rest of the South American States,
might be absorbed in the United States without being missed by the civi-
lized world. They represent no idea, and the work of civilization could go
on without them as well as with them. If they keep up with the progress
of civilization, it is all that can be expected of them.18
It is undoubtedly such parochial provincialism that the Catholic church
found so unacceptable, with respect to the tendencies of the later “Ameri-
canists” who were the ideological heirs of Orestes Brownson. This leads us
to ask, what is “Americanism” in the American Catholic context—consid-
ering the fact that Brownson was the great precursor to the Americanist
movement, although not one of the principals themselves? The simplest
explanation is that the Americanists, following in Brownson’s ideological
footsteps, believed in “God and country”—that is, that America has a divine
destiny, and that, together, the alliance of America and Catholicism would
redound to the advancement of both. To this end, the Americanists sought
rapport between Catholicism and America. The Americanists held that a
harmony—potentially, if not essentially—exists between American values
and Catholic ideals. Even more than striking a harmony, the ultimate goal
of the Americanists was that Catholicism might prove to be a catalyst in
America’s mission to reform civilization.
What largely precipitated the Americanist controversy was the influence
of the vehemently and violently anti-Catholic “Know-Nothings.” Antipathy
to Catholicism traces back to the Reformation. Reflecting the bias preva-
lent in mother England, anti-Catholic sentiments were transferred from
Europe to America during the course of colonization of the New World.
Anti-Catholicism persisted in America on the false assumption by many
Protestants who assumed that Catholic loyalty to Rome undermined
democracy. Around 1850 Charles B. Allen founded the Order of the Star
Spangled Banner. This was a secret society bent on wresting political power
away from immigrants and inflicting reprisals on those elected officials who
catered to Catholics. By 1854, this secret order became more commonly
known as the “Know-Nothing Party” or “American Party.” This order was
responsible for a surge of nativist, anti-Catholic rhetoric and concomitant
violence.

Catholic Myths and Visions of America 105
Largely in response to the national pandemic of anti-Catholic sentiment
aimed at the Irish and other Catholic immigrants, the Americanists argued
that the principles of American democracy were compatible with Catholic
doctrines and that Catholicism could, and should, provide strong sup-
port for the Republic. Americanists sought a rapprochement between the
Roman Catholic church and American culture. They championed religious
freedom, praised democracy, and saw the separation of church and state in
a positive light. The Americanists favored accommodation, and encouraged
Catholic immigrants to learn English and adopt American cultural values.
The Americanists supported labor unions as institutions promoting social
justice for workers, and recommended that Catholics align their educational
institutions with American models.
Who were the acknowledged leaders of the Americanist movement? First
and foremost is James Cardinal Gibbons, Archbishop of Baltimore. “Cardi-
nal” was not his middle name, but rather reflects the fact that, on June 7,
1886, Gibbons was elevated to the position of a cardinal, the second Ameri-
can so honored. Gibbons was the leader of the Americanist hierarchy, which
included, inter alia, the following prelates: Archbishop John Ireland, of St.
Paul, Minnesota; Bishop John Keane, of Richmond, Virginia, and later the
first rector of the Catholic University; Monsignor Denis O’Connell, rector of
the North American College in Rome; and John Lancaster Spalding of Peo-
ria.19 These ecclesial and intellectual leaders of the American Catholic church
made reconciliation with the America’s political principles—particularly that
of religious freedom—a priority. As such, the Americanists, although unsuc-
cessful in the short run, were a catalyst in the Americanization of Catholic
doctrine, especially in the furtherance of progressive social ideals.
One prime example of this rapprochement between Catholicism and pro-
gressive American social ideals will illustrate. John Ireland, who was the
first archbishop of St. Paul, Minnesota, delivered his famous address, “The
Catholic Church and Civil Society,” on Monday, November 10, 1884, before
the Third Plenary Council of Baltimore, in which he proclaimed:
Republic of America, . . . Thou bearest in thy hands the brightest hopes
of the human race. God’s mission to thee is to show to nations that man
is capable of the highest liberty. . . . Esto perpetua! . . . [N]o hands will be
lifted up stronger and more willing to defend, in war and peace, thy laws
and institutions than Catholic hands. Esto perpetua!20
Beyond these noble aspirations and lofty sentiments, what principles
were the Americanists trying to promote? And to what extent, one may ask,
were Catholic ethical and moral teachings and American social principles
found to be congruent? What cross-fertilization did the Americanists envi-
sion? While there is no definitive “creed” of the Americanist platform, the
principal Americanist beliefs can be distilled from the leading speeches and
essays of the Americanists themselves. In fine, what was the Americanist

106 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
myth of America? In answer to this question, John Ireland is not of much
help, beyond general asseverations that Catholic values are compatible with
American ideals. One prime example of this will suffice to exemplify the
point. In his essay, “The Church in America,” Ireland writes:
The Church of America has the world-wide duties which the world-wide
influence of the American Republic has thrust upon it. Wherever goes
the flag of America, wherever go the power and prestige of America,
there should the Church of America be known, there should its influ-
ence for good be felt and recognized. A special mission of the Catholic
Church in America will always be to demonstrate how congenial is the
freedom of democracy to the religion of Christ, how naturally from the
teachings of Christ’s Gospel proceed the principles of democracy liberty,
equality and brotherhood. It is because of this special mission that the
American Catholic Church is so anxiously watched by thinking men all
over the world. Humanity is entering upon a new phase of its social and
political history. To what degree will the Church of nineteen centuries
find itself at home in this new world? It is to the American Church to
give the answer.21
One is hard put to find a definitive expression of the Americanist agenda.
It is largely a set of platitudes with little substance, and of diffuse principles
with little real application. Americanism is a Catholic apologetic that largely
failed.
Papal Responses to the Americanist Myth of America
As mentioned at the beginning of this chapter, Pope Leo XIII officially con-
demned Americanism in his apostolic letter, Testem Benevolentiae Nostrae:
Concerning New Opinions, Virtue, Nature And Grace, With Regard To American-
ism, issued on January 22, 1899) and addressed to Cardinal James Gibbons
(1834–1921) of Baltimore:
From the foregoing it is manifest, beloved son, that we are not able to
give approval to those views which, in their collective sense, are called
by some “Americanism.” But if by this name are to be understood certain
endowments of mind which belong to the American people, just as other
characteristics belong to various other nations, and if, moreover, by it is
designated your political condition and the laws and customs by which
you are governed, there is no reason to take exception to the name. But if
this is to be so understood that the doctrines which have been adverted
to above are not only indicated, but exalted, there can be no manner of
doubt that our venerable brethren, the bishops of America, would be the
first to repudiate and condemn it as being most injurious to themselves

Catholic Myths and Visions of America 107
and to their country. For it would give rise to the suspicion that there are
among you some who conceive and would have the Church in America to
be different from what it is in the rest of the world.22
In instant obedience to Pope Leo XIII’s decree, James Gibbons, on St.
Patrick’s Day, 1899, publicly renounced “Americanism” as named and charac-
terized in the encyclical: “This doctrine, which I deliberately call extravagant
and absurd, this Americanism as it is called, has nothing in common with
the views, aspirations, doctrine and conduct of Americans.”23 Does this mean
that Cardinal Gibbons repudiated his own personal views, or simply the cari-
cature of “Americanism” was delineated in Testem Benevolentiae Nostrae?
In keeping with the spirit of this encyclical, later pontiffs were careful to
praise “certain endowments of mind which belong to the American people”
while eschewing any temptation to elevate America’s endowments—along
with whatever mission and destiny America might have in God’s plan, as it
were—to the status of some kind of special doctrinal position and prerogative.
As suggested in the beginning of this chapter, the Vatican, while having
officially rejected Americanism as a doctrine,24 has accorded great signifi-
cance to certain aspects of that doctrine. In the American Catholic context,
the legacy of Americanism is of both historical importance and contempo-
rary relevance. This is seen in later papal pronouncements on America and
democracy—without endorsing Americanism—indicating that America still
has a special purpose in the divine scheme of things, even though a theol-
ogy of America has no place in official Catholic doctrine. On December 16,
1997, for instance, Pope John Paul II officially stated that America “carries
a weighty and far-reaching responsibility, not only for the well-being of its
own people, but for the development and destiny of peoples throughout the
world.” Yet “the continuing success of American democracy,” the Pontiff
added, “depends on . . . a free society with liberty and justice for all . . . if the
United States is to fulfill the destiny to which the Founders pledged their
‘lives . . . fortunes . . . and sacred honor’.”25
Can the Americanist Myth of America Become a Reality?
Can a vision, if well-defined and if possible to act upon, be realized? Can the
Catholic Americanist myth of America become a reality? Whether phantom
heresy or cherished hope, can this dream become true, even if partially?
To what degree are Catholic aspirations for America even possible? These
questions invite contemporary Catholic reflections on the moral compass of
America, on what direction America should follow, on what future course it
should track, and on how Catholic values might serve as a guide.
Can a Catholic vision of America be defined? To this end, Cardinal Joseph
Bernardin’s A Moral Vision of America affords a prime exemplar.26 Arch-
bishop of Chicago from 1982 to 1996 after having served as archbishop

108 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
of Cincinnati from 1972 to 1982, Joseph Cardinal Bernardin (1928–1996)
was promoted to cardinal by Pope John Paul II in 1983 and was awarded
the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1996. For some 20 years, Cardinal
Bernardin was the most influential U.S. Catholic bishop. In A Moral Vision
of America, Bernardin develops his central theme, a “consistent ethic of life.”
This is a comprehensive ethical system, a moral framework that structures
and unifies his vision of America, which is really Cardinal Bernardin’s Cath-
olic vision for the world. Although it is one man’s vision, it is probably
shared by a great number of Catholics. Without recapitulating his views on
such controversial topics as abortion and capital punishment, Cardinal Ber-
nardin has contributed enormously to clarifying and promoting his moral
vision for America.
Another noteworthy Catholic commentary on America is John Courtney
Murray’s 1960 collection of essays, We Hold These Truths: Catholic Reflections
on the American Proposition, and reprinted by Georgetown University Press in
2005.27 When this book first appeared, Father Murray (1904–1967) himself
was pictured on the cover of the December 12, 1960, issue of Time maga-
zine, in a portrait drawn by artist Boris Chaliapin.28 This Time piece, a cover
feature story, could truly be called a “Catholic moment” in the Catholic
impact on America. In the “Critical Introduction,” Peter Lawler character-
izes Father Murray’s book as “one of two astute and comprehensive books
written by American Catholic citizens about their country.” “The other
great Catholic book on America written by an American Catholic,” Lawler
adds, “is Orestes Brownson’s The American Republic (1866).”29
Catholic Reflections on the American Proposition is not a simplistic, flag-
waving paean to America by a Catholic leader. “The Catholic may not, as
others do,” writes Father Murray in his preface, “merge his religious and his
patriotic faith, or submerge one in the other.”30 For Catholicism itself is far
more historic and universal than America itself: “He must reckon with his
own tradition of thought, which is wider and deeper than any that America
has elaborated.”31 Murray’s primary “message,” as it were, is that Catholic
values are harmonious with American ideals. This evades the real issue as
to whether the Catholic church actually has, or can exert, any appreciable
influence on the course of American thought and culture itself.
Retrospectively, however, Catholic visions of America have failed to have
much decisive impact. The rhetoric was there, but not the results, according
to Catholic sociologist Joseph Varacalli. In Bright Promise, Failed Community
(2000), Varacalli explains why Catholic America essentially failed to shape
the American Republic in any significant way.32 Varacalli’s concluding chapter
is disappointing, however, being the afterthought of just one single page in
this very short book.33 One has to look elsewhere for a more forward-looking
perspective. Prospectively, in an article that appeared in the Catholic popular
journal, Homiletic and Pastoral Review in 2004, and reprinted in Ignatius Insight
in May 2005, Varacalli elaborates further on the analysis he presented in
Bright Promise, Failed Community, but with a view to the future of Catholicism

Catholic Myths and Visions of America 109
in America. Varacalli articulates this vision in the following 12 “Propositions
and Principles,” which the present writer distills as follows:
Proposition One: Patriotic sentiments are principally realized at the level of
the nation; such patriotism may soon be mediated through a kind of globalism.
Either way, the key question is how Catholic citizens should relate to America.
Proposition Two: It is “idolatrous,” however, to exalt a national interest
above a religious concern. That is to say, faithful adherence to the prac-
tice of the Catholic religion must take precedence: “For all of its virtues,
America is, at best, a means to some higher end such as human liberty,”
Varacalli states.
Proposition Three: Varacalli hastens to add that patriotism, per se, is neu-
tral: “Patriotism, in and by itself, is neither good nor bad; the issue is the
nature of what one is patriotic towards.” Accordingly, a good Catholic must
develop a healthy patriotism and not be “patriotic” for its own sake. For, to
do so, would be tantamount to a blind patriotism. One should not be patri-
otic merely for the sake of patriotism.
Proposition Four: American society is in flux. Since the “America” that is
the focus of our patriotism is constantly changing, therefore our own patri-
otism has to be adjusted accordingly.
Proposition Five: Its precipitous moral decline notwithstanding, Varacalli
believes that, “all things considered, this country was a better place to live
in fifty years or so ago.”
Proposition Six: From a Catholic perspective, America is positive and
negative.
Proposition Seven: The natural consequence of Proposition Six is that a
Catholic view of America must be realistic, and must mediate between ide-
alizing America, on the one extreme, and belonging to the “America hating
club,” on the other: “Fairness, realism, and the Catholic worldview, then,
should acknowledge the ambiguous cultural reality of the present situation
in the United States,” Varacalli writes.
Proposition Eight: In many ways, this proposition is the key to Varacalli’s
Catholic vision of America, where “the possibility of reversing this society’s
descent into the culture of death or, conversely, building a society based
on love and human solidarity depends on the implementation in Ameri-
can society of ideas either derived from, or consistent with, Catholic social
teachings.” From his own perspective as a devout Catholic, Varacalli’s vision
of America, in his own words, essentially boils down to this:
The Catholic defense of the fundamental dignity of all human life,
including the unborn; its positing of truth and the exercise of reason;
its promotion of the intact, nuclear, traditional family; its insistence that
the purpose of government is to serve the common good; its position
that workers and employees have the right to organize for a decent spiri-
tual and material existence; its claim that creative and dignified work is
constitutive of the anthropology of mankind; and its argument that the

110 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
true development of nations and individual lives involves the furthering
of both body and soul, are just a few examples of what I’ve referred to as
the “bright promise” contained within Catholic social thought and the
natural law. Simply put, the saving and further perfection of the American
experiment lies primarily with the ability of the Catholic Church to serve
as a leaven for our society and culture. Put another way, and translated
into the central concern of my presentation, a great way to be a patriotic
American is to be a serious, educated, and committed Catholic American.
Proposition Nine: Realistically, the Catholic Church in America is not cur-
rently positioned or equipped “to effectively lead the restoration of American
society and culture,” Varacalli admits. “As I’ve argued in my book, Bright
Promise, Failed Community: Catholics and the American Public Order,” Varacalli
explains, “the Catholic Church in the United States has suffered a massive
‘secularization from within’ during the post-Vatican II era.” In other words,
the American Catholic church has, unfortunately,
allowed itself to be co-opted by corrupting secular influences, thus losing
her ability not only to serve as a leaven for our society and culture but also
her ability to evangelize her own community of slightly less than twenty-
five percent of the American population. Simply put, the Church can’t
save America if she can’t first save herself.
Proposition Ten: Given this critique, Varacalli advances what may well be
considered his American Catholic manifesto: “The first task for the Catholic
Church, then, is to restore integrity to the Catholic house through an inten-
sive emphasis on authentic Catholic evangelization, catechesis, socialization,
and education. In the language of sociology, the Catholic Church must rebuild
its ‘plausibility structure’ or series of social institutions” in order to effec-
tively regain any kind of measurable influence on American society.
Proposition Eleven: “The keys to creating and sustaining an orthodox
Catholic institution capable both of socializing effectively its members and
evangelizing successfully outside its walls is,” Varacalli proposes, (1) main-
taining the Catholic tradition “in all its majesty and sophistication”; (2)
maintaining “high standards of professionalism and competence”; and (3)
“reinforcing communication and social interaction.” “Simply put,” Varacalli
proposes, American Catholics should “invest less time with American mass
culture and more time in an authentically Catholic milieu.”
Proposition Twelve: Finally, Varacalli exhorts American Catholics, in words
of Jesus, to be “innocent as a dove and as wise as a serpent.” Here, Ameri-
can Catholics need to look to contemporary role models. “One such role
model,” Varacalli proposes, “is Mel Gibson, whose film, The Passion of the
Christ, represents a major victory for those who believe that Christians have
a right to attempt to contribute and shape the contours of our culture and
society.” “Mel Gibson is a Christian who has made a difference in American

Catholic Myths and Visions of America 111
public life,” Varacalli explains, “by enriching it with the Gospel message. He
is a true American patriot and a true Christian American.”
Varacalli concludes that “the simple and stark fact is that United States of
America needs the Catholic worldview more than the Catholic faith requires
the American experience.” The test of whether American Catholics have
succeeded in their mission to positively influence America in realizing its
own mission is simply this: “If this county of ours, which we love so much
and which has done so much good for so many, is to escape further descent
into the culture of death, it will be because of the presence, witness, and
actions of a revitalized Catholic Church in the United States of America.”34
Can the Catholic Americanist myth of America become a reality? With
the sexual abuse scandal having significantly undermined faith in the Cath-
olic priesthood, and with America’s wider unmooring from the traditional
harbors of morality, decency, and traditional American values, the answer
to that question is likely this: Not on its own. Visions of America that can
translate American ideals into reality will take other shapes and forms, as
will be described throughout the remainder of this book. To the extent that
a shared vision may be found, and common ground gained, the alternative
visions of America that are most viable will probably be so because they
reveal a grander vision.
Figure 5.2. Demon and angel praying. Queen of All Saints Parish Church (Roman
Catholic) in Brooklyn, New York (July 2008). Angle of view rotated from horizontal
to vertical for effect, as these figures extend parallel to the ground from the roof of
the Cathedral. (Photo courtesy of David Smith.)

112 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Chapter 5 Update: Toward a Truly “Catholic” World
The American people have a genius for splendid and unselfish action,
and into the hands of America, God has placed the destinies of afflicted
humanity.
—Pope Pius XII (1946)35
In 1946, Collier’s magazine published a special message to Americans by
Pope Pius XII.
As of 2007, around 22% of Americans were professed Catholics; that’s
a small percentage of the single largest religious organization in the world,
with over one billion adherents across the globe today. By name, and there-
fore by definition, the Roman Catholic Church is universal, which is the
meaning of “catholic.” Presumably, the Pontiff, in this day and age, can-
not show any preference to any given country. No favoritism toward any
particular country can or should be shown. This is not so much a rule as
it is an obvious fact. It’s simply common sense. Whereas a country may
exhibit certain extraordinary capacities and characteristics, a visiting Pope
may take advantage of a golden opportunity to say some good things about
the country, especially as a way to encourage the leaders and people of that
country to aspire to greater accomplishments. If doing so serves a higher
(and wider) purpose, then all the better. Accordingly, papal statements on
America should be seen in this light.
Before looking at more recent papal statements on America, it would
be worthwhile to focus briefly on a special message to America, given by
Pope Pius XII, which was then published in a national magazine. Decades
later, President Ronald Reagan would cite, verbatim, from this very state-
ment. It was one of his favorite quotes, in fact. So an old statement was
recycled and privileged later in a speech that attracted national press cover-
age, thereby giving these very words not only renewed, but possibly even
greater national prominence. In some sense, the papal statement became a
presidential statement. Put another way, a religious message became part of
America’s secular civil religion.
The article was titled, “Wisdom—Not Weapons of War: A Program for
Permanent Peace.”36 This remarkable statement was invited by Henry La
Cossitt, editor of Collier’s, a national weekly magazine. He did not ask Pope
Pius XII directly. Instead, La Cossitt contacted Cardinal-designate, Francis
J. Spellman, to convey his invitation to Pope Pius XII. In brief, the Pontiff
had this to say about America:
The Church teaches that a sound democracy is based on the changeless,
unchallengeable principles of natural law and revealed truth. . . .
In October, 1936, a transatlantic voyage afforded Us an opportunity of
catching a glimpse with Our own eyes, of America, so young, so sturdy,

Catholic Myths and Visions of America 113
so glorious. The American people have a genius for splendid and unself-
ish action, and into the hands of America, God has placed the destinies of
afflicted humanity. . . .
Armed with the arms of spirit and heart, the merciful weapons of
peace: wisdom, justice and charity, we must stand united against the wan-
ton weapons of war: tyranny, hatred and greed. Then the griefs of the
world’s bereaved and the graves of their martyred dead will be sealed with
the tranquillity and the glory of God’s peace.37
This statement would be resurrected some four decades later by Presi-
dent Ronald Reagan, in his “Farewell Address to the Nation,” delivered
from the Oval Office on January 11, 1989.38 President Reagan’s speech is
briefly discussed in Chapter 4.
Fast-forward now to Pope Benedict XVI’s 2008 visit to America. A visit
outside the Vatican is typically called “apostolic voyage.” In this sense, the
word “voyage” should not be understood as an “adventure,” but simply as a
venturing forth—that is, a “visit.” Papal visits to America have been ongo-
ing for well over 50 years. On October 4, 1965, Pope Paul VI became the
first pope to visit the United States. That day, he spent 14 hours in New
York. He addressed the United Nations General Assembly, attended the
New York World’s Fair, celebrated Mass at Yankee Stadium, and met Presi-
dent Lyndon Johnson. Over a span of 20 years, from 1979 to 1999, Pope
John Paul II visited the United States seven times during his papacy. In six
of those occasions, the Pontiff met with a U.S. president. Before taking a
brief look at the Pope Benedict XVI’s sojourn to America, a short sketch of
the Pontiff’s life and career will provide a background.
Born 1927, Pope Benedict XVI was German theologian, Joseph Ratz-
inger. In 1947, Ratzinger on his graduate studies at the Herzogliches
Georgianum of the Ludwig-Maximilian University in Munich, a theo-
logical seminary. In July, 1953, Ratzinger was awarded his doctorate in
theology. His dissertation was titled, “The People and House of God
in Augustine’s Doctrine of the Church.” In 1958, Ratzinger became a
professor of theology at Freising College, a little north of Munich. An
academic in his role as a Catholic theologian, Ratzinger held positions
as a Professor of Dogma and History of Dogma at the University of Bonn
(1959–1963), the University of Mü nster (1963–1966), the University of
Tübingen (1966–1969), and the University of Regensburg (1969–1977).
In 1968, Ratzinger published (in the original German) perhaps his most
celebrated book, Introduction to Christianity (English translation, 1969),
since translated into nineteen languages, including Chinese and Arabic.
His academic career ended when, on March 24, Pope Paul VI (1897–1978)
made Ratzinger a cardinal and appointed him as Archbishop of Munich
and Freising (1977–1981). In 1981, Pope John Paul II (1920–2005) named
Ratzinger as cardinal prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the
Faith. This post made Ratzinger the chief overseer of Catholic doctrine.

114 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Ratzinger reaffirmed traditional Catholic teachings on priestly celibacy,
birth control, homosexuality, and other controversial issues, whereby
American Catholics pressured the Vatican for change, and such efforts
were interpreted as effectively challenging Rome’s authority.39
On April 19, 2005, Joseph Cardinal Ratzinger was elected Roman Pontiff,
and he took the name Benedict XVI. In April 15–21, 2008, the the Holy
Father undertook his “apostolic journey” to the United States for a six-day
visit to Washington and New York. On April 18, 2008, Pope Benedict XVI
gave a speech to the General Assembly of the United Nations. On Wednes-
day, April 16, 2008, in a welcoming ceremony on the South Lawn of the
White House in Washington DC, the Pontiff addressed President George W.
Bush and the American people. The Holy Father proclaimed, in part:
Mr. President,
From the dawn of the Republic, America’s quest for freedom has been
guided by the conviction that the principles governing political and social
life are intimately linked to a moral order based on the dominion of God
the Creator. The framers of this nation’s founding documents drew upon
this conviction when they proclaimed the “self-evident truth” that all men
are created equal and endowed with inalienable rights grounded in the
laws of nature and of nature’s God. . . .
For well over a century, the United States of America has played an
important role in the international community. . . . America has tradi-
tionally shown herself generous in meeting immediate human needs,
fostering development and offering relief to the victims of natural catas-
trophes. I am confident that this concern for the greater human family will
continue to find expression in support for the patient efforts of interna-
tional diplomacy to resolve conflicts and promote progress. In this way,
coming generations will be able to live in a world where truth, freedom
and justice can flourish—a world where the God-given dignity and rights
of every man, woman and child are cherished, protected and effectively
advanced . . .
God bless America!40
This speech is noteworthy in calling attention to America’s separation
of church and state, historically demanded by the colonial churches them-
selves. American Catholics came to embrace this guarantee of the freedom
of religion as an important legal protection. Of far greater moment, in the
eyes of the Pontiff, was America’s international outreach and diplomacy.
Clearly, Pope Benedict XVI gave recognition to, and expressed appreciation
for, America’s concern for the protection of human rights abroad, and for
playing its part in conflict resolution in the context of international relations.
There is a hint of America’s scientific contribution in the words “promote
progress,” although that is simply the present writer’s interpretation, as

Catholic Myths and Visions of America 115
“progress” is broadly defined. In praising America’s diplomatic and human-
itarian virtues, the Pontiff has effectively endorsed America’s world role
by calling for a continuation of these efforts in “coming generations.” The
speech ends with a rhetorical flourish, closing with a benediction so famil-
iar in presidential speeches, “God bless America!”
A week later, on Wednesday, April 30, 2008, Pope Benedict XVI spoke
at St. Peter’s Square. He reflected on his experience in America. Translated
from the Italian, the Pontiff stated, in part:
During the Meeting with the President at his residence, I was able to
pay tribute to this great Country [America] which was built from the
outset on the foundations of a felicitous combination of religious, ethical
and political principles which still constitute a valid example of healthy
secularism where the religious dimension, with the diversity of its expres-
sions, is not only tolerated but appreciated as the Nation’s “soul” and a
fundamental guarantee of human rights and duties. In this context, the
Church can carry out her mission of evangelization and human promotion
with freedom and commitment and also as a “critical conscience.” She
thus contributes to building a society worthy of the human person and,
at the same time, encourages a Country such as the United States—to
which everyone looks as to one of the principal actors on the international
stage—toward global solidarity, ever more necessary and urgent, and the
patient exercise of dialogue in international relations.41
Here, America’s “healthy secularism” has a positive “religious dimen-
sion,” which not only allows the Roman Catholic Church to pursue its
promotion of the gospel and to fulfill its Christian mission with perfect
freedom, but also gives the Church a special role, which is to serve as a
“critical conscience.” In other words, there may be instances—as has hap-
pened from time to time—for which the Church is called upon to address
certain policies and issues that it sees as vitally important. Typically, these
are ethical and moral concerns. In having the freedom to speak out, the
Church’s voice can be heard within the civic sphere, without transgressing
separation of church and state. In that respect, the Church exerts a moral
influence, that may have some political effect. Or it may not. In any case,
the Church contributes to the American experience by quickening the con-
science of America’s political and civic leaders.
This brief comment on Pope Benedict XVI’s visit to the United States
highlights, and reinforces, other statements from various Pontiffs in the
Catholic Church, which are featured earlier in this chapter. Taken together,
papal statements on America tend to emphasize the role of the United
States doing its part to address issues of social justice on a world scale.
Just as the Catholic Church, by definition, is “universal,” so also should be
America’s outlook and outreach.

116 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Notes

1. John Paul II, “Meeting with the President of the United States of America,
Mr. Ronald Reagan. Address of John Paul II.” Vizcaya Museum, Miami.
Thursday,September 10, 1987.

2. “Fissiparous [divisive, tending to split up] Protestantism” is an expression
ascribed to Kenneth Scott Latourette.

3. William L. Portier, “Heartfelt Grief and Repentance in Imperial Times.”
Love Alone Is Credible: Hans von Balthasar as Interpreter of the Catholic Tradition.
Volume 1. Ed. David L. Schindler (Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans, 2008),
351–352.

4. Ibid., 352.

5. Pope Leo XIII, “Concerning New Opinions, Virtue, Nature and Grace, with
Regard to Americanism. Testem Benevolentiae Nostrae.” Encyclical of Pope
Leo XIII promulgated on January 22, 1899.

6. Pope Benedict XVI, “Address of His Holiness Benedict XVI, ‘Rotunda’ Hall
of the Pope John Paul II Cultural Center of Washington, D.C.” Thursday,
April 17, 2008.

7. Pope John Paul II, “Address of John Paul II to Hon. Richard B. Cheney, Vice
President of the United States of America.” Tuesday, January 27, 2004.

8. Pope John Paul II, “Welcome Address of His Holiness John Paul II.” Inter-
national Airport of Miami. Thursday, September 10, 1987.”

9. John Paul II, “Meeting with the President of the United States of America,
Mr. Ronald Reagan. Address of John Paul II.” Vizcaya Museum, Miami.
Thursday, September 10, 1987.

10. Mark S. Burrows, “The Catholic Revision of an American Myth: The Escha-
tology of Orestes Brownson as an Apology of American Catholicism.”
Catholic Historical Review 76 (1990): 18–43; Carl Krummel, “Catholicism,
Americanism, Democracy, and Orestes Brownson.” American Quarterly 6.1
(Spring 1954): 19–31.

11. Robert Herrera, “Orestes Brownson’s Vision of America.” Modern Age 43.2
(Spring 2001): 133–145 [133].

12. Robert A. Herrera, Orestes Brownson: Sign of Contradiction (Wilmington, DE:
ISI Books, 1999), 74. Qtd. in Eric J. Scheske, “Orestes Brownson: His Life,
His Catholicism.” Logos: A Journal of Catholic Thought and Culture 7.2 (2004):
137–164 [150].

13. Orestes Brownson, “Mission of America.” The Works of Orestes A. Brownson.
Ed. Henry F. Brownson (Detroit: T. Nourse, 1884), vol. 11: 551–584 [567].
Qtd. in James Emmett Ryan, “Orestes Brownson in Young America: Popu-
lar Books and the Fate of Catholic Criticism.” American Literary History 15.3
(2003): 443–470 [450].

14. See especially Patrick W. Carey, Orestes A. Brownson: American Religious
Weathervane (Grand Rapids, MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans, 2004); and idem, ed.,
Orestes A. Brownson: Selected Writings. Sources of American Spirituality
(Mahwah, NJ: Paulist Press, 1991).

15. O. A. Brownson, LL.D., The American Republic: Its Constitution, Tendencies, and
Destiny (New York: P. O’Shea, 1866).

16. Ibid., “Chapter XV. Destiny—Political and Religious.”

Catholic Myths and Visions of America 117

17. Ibid., “Chapter XI. The Constitution, Concluded.”

18. Ibid., “Chapter XV. Destiny—Political and Religious.”

19. Dennis Joseph Dease, The Theological Influence of Orestes Brownson and Isaac
Hecker on John Ireland’s Americanist Ecclesiology (Ph.D. dissertation: The Cath-
olic University of America, 1978).

20. Translation: “Mayest thou [America] endure forever!” John Ireland, “The
Church and Modern Society.” In idem, The Church and Modern Society:
Lectures and Addresses (New York: D. H. McBride, 1903), 27–65 [64–65];
Marvin O’Connell, John Ireland and the American Catholic Church (St. Paul:
Minnesota Historical Society, 1988), 192–195; Neil T. Storch, “John Ire-
land’s Americanism After 1899: The Argument from History.” Church
History 51.4 (1982): 434–444.

21. John Ireland, “The Church in America,” Lecture and Addresses. Vol. II (St.
Paul, MN: Pioneer Press, 1905), 240–241.

22. Pope Leo XIII, “Concerning New Opinions, Virtue, Nature and Grace, with
Regard to Americanism. Testem Benevolentiae Nostrae.” Encyclical of Pope
Leo XIII promulgated on January 22, 1899.

23. Qtd. in Monsignor John Tracy Ellis, ed., Documents of American Catholic His-
tory (Milwaukee, WI: Bruce Publishing, 1956), 533.

24. See Gerald P. Fogarty, “The Vatican and the Americanist Crisis: Denis J.
O’Connell, American Agent in Rome, 1885–1903.” Miscellanea Historiae
Pontificiae, 36 (Rome Universita` Gregoriana Editrice, 1974); and idem,
“Americanism.” The New Dictionary of Catholic Social Thought. Ed. Judith A.
Dwyer (Collegeville, MN: The Liturgical Press, 1994), 39–42.

25. John Paul II, “John Paul II on the American Experiment.” First Things 82
(April 1998): 36–37.

26. Joseph Cardinal Bernardin, A Moral Vision of America. Ed. John P. Langan
(Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press, 1998).

27. John Courtney Murray, We Hold These Truths: Catholic Reflections on the Ameri-
can Proposition (Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield, 2005 [1960]).

28. See the “Foreword” by Walter J. Burghardt, S.J. (Georgetown University) to
Murray, We Hold These Truths, vii–x [vii]. The author of the Time cover story
on Father Murray was Protestant writer Douglas Auchincloss.

29. Peter Lawler, “Critical Introduction,” in Murray, We Hold These Truths, 2.

30. Murray, We Hold These Truths, xv.

31. Ibid., xv.

32. Joseph A. Varacalli, Bright Promise, Failed Community: Catholics and the Ameri-
can Public Order (Lanham, MD: Lexington Books, 2000).

33. Ibid., 113.

34. Joseph A. Varacalli, “On Being Catholic American.” Homiletic and Pastoral
Review (August–September 2004).

35. Pope Pius XII, “Wisdom—Not Weapons of War: A Program for Permanent
Peace.” Collier’s (January 5, 1946): 9–11. See http://www.unz.org/Pub/
Colliers-1946jan05. (Accessed November 13, 2014.)

36. Ibid., 12.

37. Ibid., 13.

38. President Ronald Reagan, “Farewell Address to the Nation.” (January 11,
1989.) See http://reagan2020.us/speeches/Farewell.asp. Video: https://

118 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
www.youtube.com/watch?v=UKVsq2daR8. (Accessed November 22,
2014.)

39. D. Vincent Twomey, “Introduction” and “Chronology of the Life of Pope
Benedict XVI,” Essential Pope Benedict XVI: His Central Writings and Speeches.
Ed. John F. Thornton and Susan B. Varenne (New York: HarperCollins,
2008), xiii–xxxiv and xxxv–xxxix.

40. Pope Benedict XVI, “Address of His Holiness Benedict XVI. “South Lawn
of the White House, Washington, D.C. (April 16, 2008.) See http://www.
vatican.va/holy_father/benedict_xvi/speeches/2008/april/documents/
hf_ben-xvi_spe_20080416_welcome-washington_en.html.
(Accessed
November 30, 2014.)

41. Pope Benedict XVI, “Apostolic Journey to the United States of
America.” (April 30, 2008.) See http://www.vatican.va/holy_father/bene-
dict_xvi/audiences/2008/documents/hf_ben-xvi_aud_20080430_en.html.
(Accessed November 30, 2014.)

Figure 6.1. Congregation Mickve Israel, Savannah, Georgia, was founded in 1733
by the third oldest Jewish community in America, and is the only neo-Gothic syn-
agogue in America. In response to the Mickve Israel’s letter of on May 6, 1789,
President George Washington famously replied:
May the same wonder-working Deity, who long since delivered the Hebrews from their
Egyptian oppressors, planted them in a promised land, whose providential agency has
lately been conspicuous in establishing these United States as an independent nation,
still continue to water them with the dews of heaven and make the inhabitants of every
denomination participate in the temporal and spiritual blessings of that people whose
God is Jehovah.
(Public domain. Photo by Richard Chambers, April 1, 2006. Black and white ver-
sion of color original.)

Chapter 6
Jewish Myths and
Visions of America
Behold America, the land of the future! . . . The land of promise for all
persecuted!
—Kaufmann Kohler (1911)1
We thank Thee, O God, for having taught the founders of our Republic
laws that safeguard the equal rights of all citizens and impose equal obli-
gations upon all.
—Mordecai Kaplan (1945)2
“Americanism” simply refers to an ideology of America—its identity,
mission, and destiny.
In the preceding chapter, Catholic visions of America—particularly
those promoted by the so-called “Americanists” and, later, by Pope John
Paul II and Pope Benedict XVI—presupposed Protestant visions of Amer-
ica. To some degree, these eulogizing encomia of America were echoes of
the Protestant master myth of America—yet Catholicized and deracialized.
“Americanism” is also part of the common heritage of American Jews and
served Jewish interests by serving American interests. Jewish Americanism
was a “hyphen” that mediated between the extremes of ethnic ghettoism
and total assimilation, thus allowing Jewish communities to have faith in
America while “keeping the faith” as Jews.
Described as “a common feature in the history of all sectors in the Amer-
ican Jewish population,” Americanism has been “the sociocultural and
political creed of several million Jews” and “should be reexamined as a Jew-
ish form of self-defense and legitimation.”3 Although noticeably ideological
in form, Jewish visions of America are mythical in content, to the extent that
these, in some ways, reshape the Protestant myth of America by universalizing it.
By universalizing America’s identity, mission, and destiny, the interests of
the American Jewish community, are, reflexively, benefited. In American

122 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Judaism, therefore, one sees a transformative process at work. “As minority
faiths strove to understand the meaning of America and their place in it,”
writes James Moorhead, “minority faiths themselves played no small part
in the weakening of white Protestant hegemony. Their creativity in adapting
and reinterpreting the symbols of American destiny broadened the frame-
work of discourse within which citizens explained national identity.”4
Jewish visions of America are directly linked to Jewish survival and
identity. That is to say, the degree to which America takes on a religious
significance is roughly coefficient with the extent to which America furthers
Jewish interests. This is not a matter of expediency, but is directly con-
nected with the future of Judaism in America itself. However, since America
cannot, constitutionally speaking, directly advance Jewish interests by way
of “state action,” those interests will be indirectly furthered so long as fun-
damental human and civic rights prevail and are held to be inviolable. What
is good for all is certainly good for one. What promotes freedom of religion
for all faiths, in general, redounds to the benefit of American Judaism in
particular. What benefits all Americans will surely benefit American Jews.
Americanism is expressed in a wide array of ways. In “The New Cov-
enant: The Jews and the Myth of America,” Sam B. Girgus asks whether a
decidedly religious Jewish myth of America even exists.5 In this chapter, key
prayers for America’s leaders and patriotic speeches by Jewish leaders will
be cited, not as definitive, but as representative of Jewish visions of Amer-
ica. Even if there were definitive Jewish religious perspectives on America,
they would be necessarily plural, since there is no chief rabbi in America,
and no central Jewish authority. Consider the fact that American Jews now
have an Orthodox Pentateuch, a Conservative Pentateuch, and a Reform
Pentateuch. While the Hebrew text is the same, the translations are differ-
ent, and so are the commentaries.6 Similarly, while the historical context of
American Jews is roughly the same, the interpretations of that experience
are different. However, these interpretations do reflect certain patterns, a
description of which may be helpful in presenting a coherent overview of
Jewish visions of America.
This positive regard for America finds greater expression in Jewish civil
religion than it does in the Jewish religion itself. What unifies the range of
Jewish myths of America is the American experience itself. Despite back-
lashes of anti-Semitism, America has afforded immigrant Jews a land of
refuge and of opportunity, as well as a place to maintain Jewish identity and
continuity, even though assimilation (“Americanization”) has been seen as
a real threat to the American Jewish communities. Reciprocally, American
Jews have contributed enormously to American thought and culture.
Jewish uniqueness is largely an issue of cultural and religious survival:
“The key tenets of Jewish civil religion,” according to Jonathan Woocher,
are “concern for Jewish survival, the belief in collective action on the
behalf of both Jewish interests and Jewish values, a devotion to Israel as

Jewish Myths and Visions of America 123
a unique expression of Judaism’s understanding of the meaning of and
route toward redemption, and an acceptance of the community’s right to
make certain demands on us [as Americans].”7
In this sense, the preservation of uniqueness necessarily requires the pres-
ence of equality, with all of the safeguards it affords. A Jewish civil religion
of America proceeds from American core values of equality. Here is where
efforts were made by certain American Jewish leaders to integrate civil reli-
gion within the American Jewish communal experience.
Jewish Visions of America as a Mirror of Jewish Ideologies
Jewish visions of America developed as a result of the Jewish experience
in America. The first Jewish community in America was New Amster-
dam—later known as New York, when, in 1664, the British took over the
Dutch colonies and split the land into New York and New Jersey. These
“Sephardic” Jews hailed from Spain and Portugal. Not long after, they were
joined by “Ashkenazic” Jews from Germany and Europe. Here, the Jews
enjoyed a newfound religious freedom, although not without suffering
anti-Semitism, which was transplanted from the Old World into the New
World. Notwithstanding, the 1776 Treaty of Breda gave full rights of trade,
worship, and other rights to the settlers, including Jews. As popular sup-
port for the position that freedom of religion has been interpreted by Jewish
Americans as equality of religion, Jonathan D. Sarna cites Article 11 of a
1797 treaty between the United States and the Bey and subjects of Tripoli,
which states: “The government of the United States of America is not in any
sense founded on the Christian religion.” Authored by American diplomat
Joel Barlow in 1796, the Treaty of Peace and Friendship between the United
States and the Bey and subjects of Tripoli of Barbary was read aloud from
the floor of the Senate, June 7, 1797, during the session of the Fifth Con-
gress, where it was unanimously approved and later signed by President
John Adams, who proclaimed it to the nation on June 10, 1797. Article 11
states, in full:
As the Government of the United States of America is not, in any sense,
founded on the Christian religion; as it has in itself no character of enmity
against the laws, religion, or tranquillity, of Mussulmen; and, as the said
states never entered into any war, or act of hostility against any Maho-
metan nation, it is declared by the parties, that no pretext arising from
religious opinions, shall ever produce an interruption of the harmony
existing between the two countries.8
This particular statement has often been cited by American Jewish lead-
ers “to reassure the faithful that no religion obtains special treatment in

124 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
America.”9 Thus, a natural affinity has developed between the right to be
a Jew and civil rights for all peoples, giving rise to expressions of a Jewish
civil religion of America. Trade-offs between integration and identity—that
is, being accepted as Americans while maintaining their distinctive identity
as Jews—are at the heart of Jewish perspectives on America. Since ethnic
otherness has always stood in tension with American assimilation, a key
to Jewish survival is to be forged—but not melted—in the “melting pot”
of America. Before examining some of these prayers for the government,
recited in American Jewish liturgies, it will be useful to establish a context
for the Jewish myth of America as “The Promised Land,” followed by a brief
overview of the Jewish myth of Columbus.
The Jewish Myth of America as “The Promised Land”
For over 200 years, prominent Jewish leaders and writers have acclaimed
America as the “Promised Land” or, alternatively, as the “Land of Prom-
ise.”10 Several examples will serve to illustrate this ideological and social
phenomenon. Elected to the South Carolina state legislature in 1810, Myer
Moses II (1779–1833)—in a speech delivered in Charleston in 1806—exu-
berantly exclaimed: “The Almighty gave to the Jews what had long been
promised them, namely a second Jerusalem! . . . I am so proud of being a
sojourner in this promised land.”11 In December 1898, the Union of Ameri-
can Hebrew Congregations adopted a resolution that proclaimed: “America
is our Zion. Here in the home of religious liberty, we have aided in found-
ing of this new Zion, the fruition of the beginning laid in the old.”12 And
in 1987, Jewish historian and Conservative Rabbi Jacob Neusner was quite
explicit in affirming that America is indeed the Promised Land for Jews:
It is time to say that America is a better place to be a Jew than Jerusalem.
If ever there was a Promised Land, we Jewish Americans are living in it.
Here Jews have flourished, not alone in politics and the economy, but in
matters of art, culture and learning. Jews feel safe and secure here in ways
that they do not and cannot in the State of Israel.13
Traditionally, exile and return is a powerful organizing principle of Jew-
ish history. It has served as a hermeneutical prism of the American Jewish
experience as well. Indeed, Jewish visions of America have arisen out of the
American Jewish experience in a reciprocal interplay of Jewish and Ameri-
can identities, shaped also by the motif of “Holocaust and Redemption,”
which, according to Jacob Neusner, still operates as “the generative myth by
which the generality of Jewish Americans make sense of themselves and decide what
to do with that part of themselves set aside for ‘being Jewish’.”14
Certainly the most poignant and tragic moment of the 2,000-year Exile
was the Holocaust. In the aftermath of the Holocaust, the subsequent return

Jewish Myths and Visions of America 125
of Jews to their ancestral homeland of Israel (i.e., the Kibbutz Galuyot, the
“ingathering of the exiles”) and the formation of the state of Israel in 1948
is part of the “Redemption” of Jews. Thus it comes as no surprise that the
Holocaust and the State of Israel are dominant themes that defined American
Jewish identity in the latter half of the twentieth century, although less so in
the twenty-first century. Within the American experience itself, Jonathan D.
Sarna sees a pattern of exile and return to Judaism—in which American Juda-
ism waxes and wanes—with perpetual tension between these polarities.15
Jewish Americans are understandably concerned more about the biblical
Promised Land—Israel—than about America, which, prior to the establish-
ment of the State of Israel in 1948, offered its own promise as a virtual
and, perhaps, surrogate “Promised Land.” Different from American Protes-
tants—who looked to America as God’s New Israel—the ancestral Jewish
homeland and the modern state of Israel remain a powerful orientation for
nearly all Jews. Jewish Americans have a home in America and a homeland in
Israel. While America is still home to the world’s largest Jewish community,
the Jewish homeland of Israel—not America—is the axis mundis of the Jew-
ish world.
As Israel’s most powerful ally, America has played a key role in strategi-
cally protecting the biblical Promised Land. It would seem that such a role,
in the eyes of Jewish Americans at least, would have invested America with
some kind of transcendent purpose, since America has providentially safe-
guarded the Holy Land. Ironically, while one might expect that this singular
fact should have taken on some religious significance, one is hard-pressed to
find a definitive “theology of America” within an American Jewish frame-
work itself. Instead, Jewish visions of “America” are articulated in a number
of less-pronounced ways.
There is no question that Jewish patriotism for America is healthy and
vibrant, in a secular sense. But does America have any religious significance
for Jewish Americans? Is America exceptional, in any way, just as the Jews
themselves are regarded as exceptional, as a “chosen people”? Are Jewish
Americans a “chosen people” within a “chosen” nation? There is American
exceptionalism and then there is Jewish exceptionalism. The two are obvi-
ously not the same. From Jewish perspectives, American exceptionalism is
coefficient with America’s ability to preserve and promote Jewish excep-
tionalism. And so it is that Jewish Americans have been described as “A
Unique People in an Exceptional Country.”16
In thinking about the religious significance that America may hold
for Jewish Americans, one must keep in mind that American Judaism is
composed of multi-synagogue communities that primarily include Ortho-
dox, Conservative, Reform, and Reconstructionist groups, not to mention
religiously unaffiliated and “other” Jews, reflecting a de facto religious plu-
ralism within American Judaism. Since there are four normative branches
of Judaism in the United States today—Orthodox, Conservative, Reform,
and Reconstructionist Judaism—Jewish Americanism has been variously

126 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
expressed, and not without controversy. One aspect of this is the Jewish
myth of Columbus, in which it is said that Jews accompanied Christopher
Columbus in his discovery of America.
The Jewish “Myth of Columbus”
In 1492, when Christopher Columbus discovered America, Jews were
expelled from Spain. Notwithstanding, when Columbus sailed from Old
World Spain to the New World, Luis de Torres, a Jewish interpreter, accom-
panied him. Thus, Jews can claim to have played a role in America from the
very moment America was discovered. The Jewish experience in America,
therefore, reaches as far back as the discovery of America itself. Imagine
if Christopher Columbus himself was a Jew. If so, then Jewish Americans
could rightly claim that they are as authentically “American” as any other
American, since the discoverer of America was himself a Jew. It is for this
reason that the figure of Columbus has taken on mythic proportions in
American Judaism, albeit in a secular rather than a religious sense.
The Jewish myth of Columbus was developed as part of an overarching
survival strategy and as a means of gaining American respect. The popular
Jewish myth that Columbus himself was crypto-Jew served as a bulwark
against rising nativism in America.17 “Other ethnic groups in America
claimed founder status based on their putative roles as discoverers of the
new world,” observes Jonathan D. Sarna. “Jews, I believe, are the only group
which has claimed status based on ties to the Indians, the Puritans, and
Columbus, as well.”18 By associating themselves with the founding myths
of America, Jewish Americans could prove that they, like the Indians, were
original Americans and played a role in America’s origins.
Jewish Prayers for America:
Communal Visions of America
Historically, nearly all Jewish prayer books in America have included a
prayer for the welfare of the government. This is part of a long-standing
Jewish practice around the world, as Gordon M. Freeman explains: “In fact,
a prayer for the government is a feature of every type of prayer book of every
land of the Jewish diaspora irrespective of the specific religious movement
of the community.”19 This is an ancient Jewish obligation and a venerable
tradition that has carried over to the Jewish experience in America. In the
rabbinic commentary, Pirke Avot, Jews are enjoined to “Pray for the welfare
of the government, because were it not for the fear it inspires, every man
would swallow his neighbor alive” (3:2). Jews have maintained this time-
honored practice from the time of the Second Temple. Alexander the Great,
it is said, claimed that the priests in the temple prayed for his well-being.

Jewish Myths and Visions of America 127
While prayer does not have scriptural status, it is a conduit of religious
ideology. Since there is no Jewish scripture regarding America, one there-
fore looks to Jewish prayer books for some communal Jewish perspectives
on America. Prayer books, after all, are not simply liturgy. They are com-
munal performances of doctrine in a spirit of devotion. “Second only to the
Torah, the siddur (prayer book),” states one Reform rabbi, “expresses the ideol-
ogy of our people.”20 As a congregation prays, so it believes.
As ideology evolves, so do prayer books. As such, they are documents of
the history of ideas within religious contexts. Liturgical texts, as Jonathan
D. Sarna demonstrates, offer a window into history: “Prayer, while unques-
tionably a part of the American experience, is not a phenomenon that most
American historians study. Yet, liturgical texts—as well as other aspects of
prayer—may be subjected to historical analysis.”21
While there is no communally held doctrine of America among Jews in
the United States today, Jews have ritually included prayers for the U.S.
government in various prayer books. In other words, American Judaism has
what might be called a “liturgy of America,” although this aspect of Jewish
worship is admittedly minor. A study of these prayers, therefore, will reveal
some ways in which Jews incorporate the secular into the sacred, partly
through a process of sacralizing the secular. American Jewish prayer books are
a testament to the Americanization of Judaism.
Orthodox Judaism’s Traditional
Prayer for the Government
What may be the first Jewish prayer for the U.S. government is a handwrit-
ten manuscript dated 1784, although neither would the U.S. Constitution
be ratified nor George Washington be elected as the nation’s first president
until 1789. This prayer, preserved in the Jacques Judah Lyons Collection of
the American Jewish Historical Society, is a prayer of thanksgiving for the
successful conclusion of the American War for Independence. The prayer
itself is attributed to Hendla Jochanan van Oettingen, a hazzan (reader) of
New York’s Congregation Shearith Israel, the country’s first Jewish congrega-
tion. The prayer mentions the names of both General George Washington,
commander in chief of the American Army, and Governor George Clinton,
chief magistrate of New York. The prayer reads, in part:
Mayest Thou grant intelligence, wisdom and knowledge to our lords, the
rulers of these thirteen states. . . . As Thou has granted to these thirteen
states of America everlasting freedom, so mayest Thou bring us forth once
again from bondage into freedom.22
In 1826, however, the version of Hanoten Teshua published in New York
blesses the president and the vice president, the Senate, the House of

128 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Representatives, the governor, the lieutenant governor, and the magistrates
of New York City.23
The most explicitly nationalist of these Orthodox prayers for the Ameri-
can government is one that was rediscovered by Jonathan D. Sarna. The
prayer, Ribbon Kol Ha-olamim, rendered into English, reads, in part:
Master of the Universe, Lord of all Works, Who extends peace like a river,
and the glory of nations like a rapid stream. Look down from Your holy
dwelling and bless this land, the United States of America, whereon we
dwell. Let not violence be heard in their land, wasting and destruction
within their boundaries, but You shall call its walls “Salvation” and its
gates “Praise.” . . .
Pour down the bounty of Your goodness upon the President, and the
Vice President of the United States. Let their prosperity be like a river,
their righteousness like the waves of the sea. In their days may kind-
ness and truth meet each other, righteousness and peace kiss. Great shall
be their honor; through Your help and in Your strength they will greatly
exult. Amen. . . .
Ordain Your blessings also upon the Governor and the lieutenant Gov-
ernor of the state and the Mayor and the Common Council of this City.
Teach them the good way wherein they should walk so as to judge the
entire people rightly, the entire nation justly, and all will see it and delight
themselves from the abundance of peace. Send Your salvation also to the
City of New York and all its inhabitants. Spread over them the canopy of
Your Peace and remove from them every ailment and mishap. . . . 24
Sarna, who ascribes the authorship of this unique prayer to Rabbi Max
Lilienthal (1814?–1882),25 observes that particular prayer “did much to
signify to them that America was different—if not actually Zion then the
closest thing to it.”26 This prayer is no longer in use. One reason is that this
was a purely local innovation. It was atypical of Orthodox Judaism generally.
Of the four forms of contemporary American Judaism, Orthodox liturgy
is the least amenable to change, as Ruth Langer notes:
The contemporary Orthodox world defines itself by adherence to tra-
ditional halakhah, including the received liturgical text, and by varying
degrees of opposition to the outside world. Therefore, its core Hebrew
and Aramaic prayer texts are nonnegotiable. At the most liberal end of
the spectrum, modern Orthodoxy seeks cultural accommodation within
the bounds of halakhah, which still creates a community that sees itself as
religiously rigorously separate. Accommodation to modernity occurs in
the esthetic presentation of the liturgy, in the printed translations or com-
mentaries, and sometimes in the choices of piyyutim or other non-halakhic
elements of the service.27

Jewish Myths and Visions of America 129
By way of a very brief introduction, Orthodox Judaism accepts, without
reservation, the doctrine: “The Torah is from Heaven.”28 Orthodox Jews thus
see themselves as “Torah-true.” They manifest complete loyalty to the Jewish
past. Basically, Orthodoxy represents faithfulness to the practices of Judaism as
enshrined in the Halakhah in its traditional formulation. That is, an Orthodox
Jew is one who obeys the rules promulgated in the standard Code of Jewish law,
the Shulhan Arukh. Orthodox Judaism rejects the notion advocated by Reform
Judaism that, in the light of modernity, Judaism needs to be “reformed.” This
“old-time religion” is good enough for Orthodox Jews.29 There are, however, a
range of Orthodox worldviews, from the ultra-Orthodox to neo-Orthodoxy.30
Notwithstanding, Orthodox Jews are unified in rightly claiming that theirs is
the Judaism of tradition as practiced in the premodern era.31 In contrast to
Reform Judaism, which sought to place ethical monotheism at the center of
Jewish life, Orthodox Judaism placed the Torah at the center of Jewish life.
Common to Orthodox Judaism and Reform Judaism, however, is the fact
that both integrated prayer in support of the government in their respec-
tive liturgies. The traditional Orthodox Jewish prayer for the government is
known as the Hanoten Teshu’ah. From its origins in the fifteenth century, the
Hanoten Teshu’ah became the most popular prayer for the government until
the twentieth century. An Americanized version of this Orthodox prayer
reads as follows:
PRAYER FOR THE GOVERNMENT
Hanoten Teshu’ah
The reader takes the Torah and recites:
He who granted victory to kings and dominion to princes, his kingdom
is a kingdom of all ages; he who delivered his servant David from the evil
sword, he who opened a road through the sea, a path amid the mighty
waters—may he bless and protect, help and exalt:
THE PRESIDENT AND THE VICE PRESIDENT
AND ALL THE OFFICERS OF THIS COUNTRY.
May the supreme King of kings, in his mercy, sustain them and deliver
them from all distress and misfortune. May the supreme King of kings, in
his mercy, inspire them and all their counselors and aides to deal kindly
with us and with all Israel. In their days and in our days Judah shall be
saved, Israel shall dwell in security, and a redeemer shall come to Zion.
May this be the will of God; and let us say, Amen.32
There is nothing remarkably “American” about this prayer, except for its
recognition of the fact that the leaders of the American government are the
U.S. president and vice president. Although assumed, the United States is
not named. In his 2006 paper, “Who is an American Jew?,” Michael Walzer,

130 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
of The Institute for Advanced Study’s School of Social Science, Princeton
University, comments on this prayer in the American context:
This is an extraordinary prayer for citizens to recite, given that the presi-
dent and vice president must come to them and ask for their votes. In fact,
the prayer isn’t written in the common language of democratic citizenship,
but in a much older language. It reflects an exilic sense of marginality and
danger. For centuries, we were radically dependent on the kindness of
kings, but our relation to presidents is, or ought to be, different. Perhaps
the subtext of the orthodox prayer is skepticism about that difference. The
people who recite it, assuming that they mean what they say, are still liv-
ing in the imaginative space of exile, where “all the world is against us.”
They are in fact citizens of the United States but in their own minds, they
are something else.33
During the Vietnam years, “chauvinistic prayers from an earlier era rang
hollow.”34 From then until now, the traditional Jewish practice of praying for
the welfare of the government—a tradition with a rich and venerable history
going back to the medieval period—has experienced widespread decline. It
was during the post-Vietnam era when traditional prayers for America largely
fell silent, with the result that this practice has largely disappeared, as Sarna
observes: “Impressionistic evidence suggests that even where prayer books
did include a regular prayer for the government, congregations recited it less
frequently.”35 A prime example of this trend is that a popular Orthodox sid-
dur, known as The Complete Art Scroll Siddur (1984), includes no prayer for the
government at all, with only a footnote that perfunctorily explains that “in
many congregations, a prayer for the welfare of the State is recited.”36 Ironi-
cally, this would appear to be a break from the Orthodox tradition of offering
prayers for the government, throughout the Diaspora.
Conservative Judaism’s Vision of America
Conservative Judaism occupies the middle ground between Orthodoxy and
Reform. With its center in the United States, Conservative Judaism is the
largest of the four movements in America. Jewish Theological Seminary
in New York (with branches in Los Angeles and Jerusalem) is the primary
institution for the training of Conservative Rabbis, who are organized as
the Rabbinical Assembly of Conservative Rabbis. Zachariah Frankel and
Solomon Schechter are the two key thinkers of Conservative Judaism.37
While Schechter was Conservative Judaism’s most illustrious personality,
the leading ideologist of Conservative Judaism in the Schechter era was
Israel Friedlaender. In 1907, Friedlaender presented his vision of America
within the broader context of Zionism: “The only place where such a Juda-
ism has a chance of realization is America.”38

Jewish Myths and Visions of America 131
Conservative Jews have a new prayer book (siddur), the Sim Shalom for
Shabbat and Festivals, edited by Rabbi Lawrence Cahan. The previous sid-
dur, also titled Sim Shalom, was edited by Rabbi Jules Harlow, but contains
services for weekdays, along with Sabbath and festivals. The prior Sim
Shalom was first published in 1985. The first Conservative siddur appeared
in 1927. That siddur introduced a “Prayer for Our Country,” which was
considered an innovation. Of all Jewish prayers for the American govern-
ment, the most perdurable is “A Prayer for Our Country,” composed by
the great rabbinic scholar, Louis Ginzberg (1873–1953). As Rabbi David
Golinkin states: “In 1927, when the Conservative movement published
its first prayer book for festivals, Professor Louis Ginzberg composed the
prayer for the government. This version is no longer based on Hanoten Tes-
hua which was intended for a monarchy. It is a brand new prayer expressly
written for a democracy.”39
First published both in Hebrew and in English translation in the Festival
Prayer Book of the Conservative movement (1927), this prayer was subse-
quently reprinted in standard Conservative Jewish prayer books and in older
Reconstructionist prayer books as well.40 All major Conservative prayer
books contain this prayer, which is essentially the same text in Hebrew, but
with varying English paraphrases.41 The so-called “Silverman Siddur” (with
black bindings), was edited by Rabbi Morris Silverman and first published
in 1946. Silverman intended the “Prayer for Our Country” as a replace-
ment for the ancient prayer for the government. The “Silverman Siddur”
was standard in the Conservative movement for nearly 40 years, and is still
in use at some synagogues today. In 1962, Rabbi Silverman composed “A
Prayer for Our Country,” published in the High Holiday Prayer Book. This
prayer reads, in part:
A PRAYER FOR OUR COUNTRY
May all the peoples that make up this great Commonwealth consecrate
their efforts, under Thy guidance, to the cause of liberty, equality, and jus-
tice. May we remain united in purpose, respecting each other’s rights and
striving together with resolute hearts and willing hands for the welfare of
all the inhabitants of our land.42
The Sim Shalom for Shabbat and Festivals is only for Sabbath and festivals,
with no liturgy for weekday services. However, the new Sim Shalom for Shabbat
and Festivals continues the regular use of Louis Ginzberg’s prayer for America:
A PRAYER FOR OUR COUNTRY
Our God and God of our ancestors: We ask Your blessings for our country—
for its government, for its leaders and advisors, and for all who exercise just
and rightful authority. Teach them insights from Your Torah, that they may
administer all affairs of state fairly, that peace and security, happiness and
prosperity, justice and freedom may forever abide in our midst.

132 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Creator of all flesh, bless all the inhabitants of our country with Your
spirit. May citizens of all races and creeds forge a common bond in true
harmony, to banish hatred and bigotry, and to safeguard the ideals and
free institutions that are the pride and glory of our country.
May this land, under your providence, be an influence for good through-
out the world, uniting all people in peace and freedom—helping them to
fulfill the vision of your prophet: “Nation shall not lift up sword against
nation, neither shall they experience war any more” (Isaiah 2:4). And let
us say: Amen.43
As explained by Ruth Langer, “our country” in American Reform lit-
urgies through the mid-twentieth century always referred to the United
States.44 In Sarna’s translation, the prayer reads, in part: “May citizens of all
races and creeds forge a common bond in true harmony to banish all hatred
and bigotry.” The universalism of this prayer is also evident in this passage:
“Plant among the peoples of different nationalities and faiths who dwell
here, love and brotherhood, peace and friendship.”45 Ginzberg’s vision of
America—liturgically shared by Conservative and Reconstructionist Juda-
ism—represents what Sarna terms a “universalistic peroration.”46 It is a
prayer that transcends sectarian boundaries and creedal differences.
Reform Judaism’s Vision of America
In 1830, the Reformed Society of Israelites in Charleston, South Caro-
lina, published an English prayer book that contained a “Prayer for the
Government in English,” to be recited during “The Service on Sabbath
Morning.” This prayer follows immediately after the “Reading of the
Sanctification of the Sabbath and the Sh’ma in English by the Minister
With Responses by the Congregation.”47 This “Prayer for the Government
in English”—composed by David N. Carvalho—is described by Jonathan
D. Sarna as follows:
Written entirely in English, the new prayer had none of the regal lan-
guage of its traditional counterpart. Rather than “exalting” the President
and other federal and state officials, for example, it simply asked God to
“bless,” “preserve,” and (a reflection of their highest ideal) “enlighten”
them. Then, in an expression of patriotic piety not previously encountered
in an American Jewish prayer book, it thanked God for having “numbered
us with the inhabitants of this thy much favoured land . . . where the
noble and virtuous mind is the only crown of distinction, and equality of
rights the only fountain of power,” for having removed from the republic
“the intolerance of bigotry,” and for freeing its people “from the yoke of
political and religious bondage.” Finally, it sought divine blessings upon

Jewish Myths and Visions of America 133
“the people of these United States,” called for charity, friendship and
unity among them, and prayed that “the lights of science and civilization
. . . defend them on every side from the subtle hypocrite and open adver-
sary.” The hope for Jewish redemption that closed the traditional prayer
for the government went unmentioned.48
For Reform Jews, America is the “Land of Promise”—just as Israel is
the “Promised Land.”49 After Reform spread from Germany to America,
Isaac Mayer Wise (1819–1900) became the redoubtable architect of Reform
Judaism in the United States. In 1875, the Hebrew Union College was
established, by Wise, in Cincinnati for the training of Reform Rabbis.50
How does Reform Judaism define itself? It does so by periodically redefin-
ing itself. On four occasions throughout its American history, the Reform
rabbinate has adopted principles formulated in statements that have guided
the thought and practice of the Reform movement. In 1885, fifteen rabbis
promulgated the Pittsburgh Platform, a set of principles that piloted Reform
Judaism for the next 50 years. In 1937, a revised set of principles—the
Columbus Platform—was adopted by the Central Conference of American
Rabbis. In 1976, a third set of rabbinic guidelines, the Centenary Perspective,
was proclaimed on the occasion of the centenary of the Union of American
Hebrew Congregations and the Hebrew Union College–Jewish Institute of
Religion. Then, in the 1999 Pittsburgh Convention, the Central Confer-
ence of American Rabbis adopted “A Statement of Principles for Reform
Judaism.” Thus, the 1999 Pittsburgh Platform represents quite an evolution
of Reform doctrine beyond the original 1885 Pittsburgh Platform. So, on the
one hand, Reform Jews are part and parcel of the people of Israel: “We
are Israel, a people aspiring to holiness, singled out through our ancient
covenant and our unique history among the nations to be witnesses to
God’s presence.” On the other hand, Reform Jews in America are part and
parcel of the people of America: “We embrace religious and cultural plu-
ralism as an expression of the vitality of Jewish communal life in Israel
and the Diaspora.”51 America is obviously part of that Diaspora. Therefore,
Reform Jews—as with Jewish Americans generally—may be regarded as a
dual-authority polity. As one might expect, the corresponding ideology would
have both Jewish and American interests at heart.
In the Reform view, Judaism is a universal religion, a “light unto the
nations.” Reform sees itself as part of the “Jewish mission” to mankind.52
For Reform Jews, as previously stated, America is the “Land of Prom-
ise”—just as Israel is the “Promised Land.” Perhaps this was little more
than an ideology for Jewish survival in America.53 Rabbi Isaac Mayer Wise
believed Judaism first had to be modernized, democratized, and American-
ized before it could be universalized as a religion that would enlighten the
world. America would play a pivotal role in the destiny of Judaism. In 1869,
Rabbi Isaac Mayer Wise proclaimed:

134 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
History is Providence realized. . . . The destiny which a nation realizes
in the designs of Providence, is its place in history. . . . The people of the
United States, on accepting this Constitution, had formally and solemnly
chosen its destiny, to be now and forever the palladium of liberty and
its divinely appointed banner-bearer, for the progress and redemption of
mankind. . . . Freedom to all nations; freedom to every man, this is our
country’s place in history; liberty in the name of my God and my country.54
Reform Judaism has used a succession of three major prayer books: (1)
The Union Prayer Book (1894); (2) Gates of Prayer (1975);55 and (3) the Mish-
kan T’filah (“Tabernacle of Prayer” or “Sanctuary of Prayer”) (2007). Reform
Judaism’s first official prayer book, The Union Prayer Book for Jewish Wor-
ship, Seder Tifilos Yisroel, was first published in 1894. The predecessor of the
Union Prayer Book was Minhag America (1857), edited by Isaac Mayer Wise.
Curiously, Minhag America—an ambitious, yet unsuccessful attempt to unify
American Judaism around a common liturgy—did not contain a prayer for
the welfare of the government.56 Nor was the Union Prayer Book modeled on
Minhag America, but rather on Dr. David Einhorn’s radical Olat Tamid prayer
book, a reworked liturgy in German with Hebrew selections reading from
left to right, for Sunday morning services.57 The Union Prayer Book features
the following prayer for America:
FOR OUR PEOPLE AND OUR NATION
Bless, O God, this congregation, those who lead and serve it, those who
contribute to its strength. Bless all who enter this House, that the wor-
ship offered within its walls may be worthy of Your greatness and Your
love, and that all who seek Your presence here may find it. For the joy of
community, the gift of diversity, and the vision of harmony, we offer our
grateful thanks.
Bless our land and all its inhabitants. Prosper us in all our undertak-
ings. Be with those whom we have chosen to lead us, that they may strive
to establish justice and opportunity for all, and labor to bring peace to the
family of nations.
Bless the household of Israel wherever they dwell. Be with us here,
where we worship You in freedom. And may those who live under oppres-
sive rule find release and liberty speedily, in our own day.
May Your favor rest upon Israel, her land, her people. Protect her
against hatred and war. Grant that the promise of her beginning may ripen
into fulfillment, bringing comfort to those who seek refuge, light to those
who dwell in darkness, new hope to all humanity. And let us say: Amen.
The successor to the Union Prayer Book was the Gates of Prayer—a liturgy
said to be a “unique blending of Jewish tradition and the American spirit.”
Notwithstanding the merits of this prayer for America in the Union Prayer

Jewish Myths and Visions of America 135
Book, Sarna observes that the replacement prayer was perfunctory in com-
parison, comprising just four lines:
The new Reform Jewish prayer book, Gates of Prayer (1975), for example,
abandoned the fervent supplication that was for so long a staple of Reform
Jewish worship, replacing it with an occasional prayer, divorced from the
regular liturgy, that covered the nation, its inhabitants, and its leaders in
four short lines.58
In 1994, the Reform movement introduced its gender-inclusive liturgy,
Gates of Prayer for Shabbat and Weekdays: A Gender Sensitive Prayer Book.
Under Gates of Prayer, plain text is what the rabbi or leader reads; text in
italics is what the congregation reads. The Gates of Prayer was phased out
in 2007, as was the four-line prayer for America. The Mishkan T’filah—A
Reform Siddur (“Tabernacle of Prayer” or “Sanctuary of Prayer”) is the new
Reform siddur. It has no italics, and thus does not differentiate rabbi from
congregant as to what is recited. The current Reform prayer for America
is as follows:
FOR OUR COUNTRY
THUS SAYS ADONAI, This is what I desire:
To unlock the fetters of wickedness, and untie the cords of lawlessness;
To let the oppressed go free; to break off every yoke.
Share your bread with the hungry, and to take the wretched poor into
your home.
When you see the naked, give clothing, and do not ignore your own kin.
If you banish the yoke from your midst, the menacing hand, the evil
speech;
If you offer compassion to the hungry and satisfy the famished
creature—
Then your light shall shine in darkness. [Isaiah 58:6–7, 9–10]
O GUARDIAN of life and liberty,
may our nation always merit Your protection.
Teach us to give thanks for what we have
by sharing it with those who are in need.
Keep our eyes open to the wonders of creation,
and alert to the care of the earth.
May we never be lazy in the work of peace;
and honor those who have died in defense of our ideals.
Grant our leaders wisdom and forbearance.
May they govern with justice and compassion.
Help us all to appreciate one another,
And to respect the many ways that we serve You.

136 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
May our homes be safe from affliction and strife,
and may our country be sound in body and spirit.
Amen59
This Reform prayer for America may be regarded as a meditation on Isa-
iah 58:6–7, 9–10. Here, the social ethic that Isaiah enjoins on the individual
is generalized to the leaders of America. If guided by the principles of Isa-
iah, then America will “govern with justice and compassion” as a reflex
of “wisdom and forbearance.” While peace remains the overarching ideal,
there appears to be a doctrine of just war “in defense of our ideals.” Rather
than idealizing America’s world role in the community of nations, there
seems to be a greater emphasis on “protection” and “defense.” Might the
emphasis of this prayer be a response, in part, to the terrorist attacks of
September 11, 2001? What is clear and manifest is that this Reform prayer
for America is infused with prophetic ideals.
In light of this decline in Reform liturgical support for America, one won-
ders if this kind of claim can withstand scrutiny: “Certainly no movement,”
one historian observes, “exceeded Reform in alluding to America’s chosen-
ness.”60 Historically, Reconstructionist Judaism is certainly a close rival.
Reconstructionist Judaism’s Vision of America
Briefly, Reconstructionism is an American movement with branches abroad.
Reconstructionism views Judaism as a “civilization”—replete with its own
religion, culture, music, literature, art, mores, and folkways. Founded by
Mordecai Menaheim Kaplan (1881–1983), Reconstructionists seek to revi-
talize Judaism in the modern world.61 Reconstructionism, having developed
as a fourth Jewish movement in the United States, has established its own
seminary, the Rabbinical College in Wyncote, Pennsylvania, founded in
1957. While a small number of Reconstructionist synagogues have also
been established, Reconstructionist Rabbis serve in Reform and Conser-
vative congregations as well.62 Liturgical creativity has been a hallmark of
Reconstructionism.63
Mordecai M. Kaplan founded Reconstructionism in an effort to bridge
the divisions of Orthodox, Conservative, and Reform Judaism.64 In this, he
did not succeed. However, he established, for his followers at least, democ-
racy as a religious value. Kaplan has come to be valued more highly now as
compared to then: “Mordecai M. Kaplan is rightly acclaimed as the great-
est Jewish thinker to have emerged from the American Jewish context.”65
Born in Lithuania in 1881, arriving in the United States at the age of nine,
in 1934, Mordecai M. Kaplan published his magnum opus and what would
certainly be his most enduring work: Judaism as a Civilization: Toward a Recon-
struction of American-Jewish Life.66

Jewish Myths and Visions of America 137
The title of this masterwork could be transposed to reflect a sub-thesis:
America as a Civilization: Toward a Reconstruction of American Life. While the
transformation of this title is the present writer’s, it does reflect some recent
scholarship on Kaplan: “Scholars and Jewish thinkers alike have much to
learn from Kaplan’s efforts to save Judaism by reconstructing the common
understanding of American civilization.”67 For this analysis, the following
statement by Kaplan shows that, ideally, Judaism would exercise a beneficial
influence on America by transforming America’s democratic nationalism into
a civilizational nationalism—one that adumbrates the civic virtues of democ-
racy, while allowing for the reciprocal influence of religious values:
America is destined to depart from the strict logic of democratic nation-
alism and to achieve a new cultural constellation in which historical
civilizations, or churches, may be permitted to conserve the finest prod-
ucts of their experience and contribute them to the sum total of American
culture and civilization.68
Jewish Americans, in Kaplan’s view, have a mission to widen America’s
profession and practice of democracy:
Kaplan clung tenaciously to an unwavering belief in the promise of
America. Steadfast faith in the ideal of American democracy served as a
cornerstone of his program for the Jewish future, the American future,
and the relationship between the two. He repeatedly stressed that the fate
of Jews was “bound up with that of genuine democracy.” But the notion
that Jewish survival rested on the security provided by American democ-
racy represents only one (perhaps the most obvious) element of Kaplan’s
philosophy. Kaplan also posited a specific mission for Jews in America.
In one of the many sentences that he tended to italicize in order to signal
their importance to the reader, he insisted that, “By staking our fortune
upon the ultimate establishment of true democracy, we are contribut-
ing to that consummation.” Democracy, as the foundation of American
civil religion, had for Kaplan a spiritual component, capable of providing
“a source of inner peace” for all Americans; moreover, he claimed that
Jews had a particular role in bringing American democracy to its fullest
expression.69
Noam Pianko argues that Kaplan’s use of the term “civilization” plays
two disparate functions in Kaplan’s thought. His original purpose was to
equate Judaism with the highest values of America, regarded as one of the
world’s premier “civilizations.” Later, “Kaplan appropriated the term civili-
zation in order to present Jewish nationalism as an important corrective to
totalizing claims of American nationalism prevalent in the years leading up
to the publication of his magnum opus”70 in 1934.

138 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Kaplan later translated this ideology into liturgy, both for Americans in
general and for Jewish Americans in particular. In 1951, Mordecai Kaplan
and two other editors edited a now-forgotten anthology, The Faith of Amer-
ica: Readings, Songs and Prayers for the Celebration of American Holidays.71 The
Faith of America was composed as a liturgy for American civic celebrations,
as Kaplan himself writes: “This book is designed to foster faith in Amer-
ican democracy through the observance of our national holidays. Each
holiday becomes not only a day for recreation but a means for deepening
our democratic faith.”72 Kaplan goes on to explain how the lofty principles
of Judaism should exert an edifying influence to elevate to America’s civil
religion:
An illustration of the way those principles should be incorporated in
American institutional life is afforded by The Faith of America. That book
contains programs for the religious observance of American holidays. . . .
Given the wish to survive as a segment of the Jewish people, that wish is
bound to seek an outlet in some effort that would give to our persistence
as Jews not merely the significance of inertia but rather the lift that comes
from being dedicated to a high purpose. That high purpose should be to
contribute to the spiritual life of America the kind of civic religion that
will place America in the spiritual forefront of the world, as she is now in
the political and economic.73
While the anthology itself failed to attract a following in the wider
American society, six years earlier, Rabbi Kaplan’s civic commemorations
had already entered the Reconstructionist Sabbath Prayer Book, published
in 1945. The Sabbath Prayer Book incensed the American Orthodox rabbis.
The last section of this prayer book is dedicated to American civic festivals,
reflecting “Kaplan’s desire to have Jews internalize civic commitment and
to lend that commitment a religious dimension.”74 Historian Beth Wenger
cites a few examples from the Sabbath Prayer Book:
Kaplan hoped that including patriotic sentiments in prayer would
encourage Jews to internalize devotion to American ideals as a religious
obligation. The prayer books of other Jewish movements contained various
readings about America, including the American anthem and a prayer for
the government, but Kaplan’s innovation was to create organized services
for national holidays. On Independence Day, worshippers actually rose to
recite in unison two paragraphs from the Declaration of Independence,
beginning with, “We hold these truths to be self-evident.” Nowhere is the
essence of Kaplan’s ideology more apparent than in a lengthy reading for
Thanksgiving Day that celebrates “God’s Goodness” in four parts, begin-
ning with “The Testament on Nature,” then moving to “The Testament
of Man,” then to “The Testament of Israel” (here, the people Israel), and

Jewish Myths and Visions of America 139
finally concluding with “The Testament of America.” In a clearly formu-
lated teleology, Kaplan takes God’s plan from nature, to human beings, to
the Jewish people, to the United States of America.75
A quick glance at the “Table of Contents” of the Sabbath Prayer Book: With
A Supplement Containing Prayers, Readings and Hymns and With A New Transla-
tion76 reveals that “God’s Goodness—the Testament of America” appears on
pages 559–560, which reads as follows:
God’s Goodness—the Testament of America
Thy goodness is revealed in the Testament of America. Into this land there
have assembled the outcast and the weary of the older nations of the
world. Here they dreamed a new dream of a nation founded on the truth,
that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator
with certain inalienable rights, that among those rights are life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness.
And because Thou hast been with us and Thy goodness has kept us
strong, the freedom which they won is still ours. May we ever be wor-
thy of our American heritage; may we ever treasure our liberties, not for
ourselves alone but for all our fellowmen; and may our country become a
guiding light to all mankind.
In the words of Abraham Lincoln:
“With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in the
right as God gives us to see the right, let us strive to finish the work we are
in. To do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among
ourselves and with all nations. Why should there not be a patient confidence
in the ultimate justice of the people? Is there any better or equal hope in the
world?”77
“In founding the United States, our fathers brought forth upon this con-
tinent a new nation, conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition
that all men are created equal. It is for us to be here dedicated to the great
task remaining before us. We here highly resolve that the dead shall not have
died in vain.”78
“That this nation under God shall have a new birth of freedom, and that
government of the people, by the people, and for the people shall not perish
from the earth.”79
Reader and Congregation
For all these, O Lord Our God, we thank Thee: for Thy goodness as
maintained in Nature, in the human spirit, in Israel’s Torah, and in Amer-
ica’s promise. Embolden our hearts so that, surmounting discouragement
and despair, we may learn to see clearly Thy bounties, and seeing them,
make them manifest to all the world. Amen.

140 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
One remarkable feature of this liturgy is how “Israel’s Torah” and “Amer-
ica’s promise” are mentioned together, side-by-side. God’s “goodness”
is manifested in four ways: in Nature, the human spirit, the Torah, and
in “America’s promise” itself, which is not defined. From the context, it
appears that America’s world role is envisioned if, by the words “promise,”
the idea of America’s potential to serve as an instrument in making God’s
goodness “manifest to all the world” is a valid reading.
“America the Beautiful” is printed on page 561 of the Sabbath Prayer Book.
Moreover, on Brotherhood Sabbath (celebrated on the Sabbath between
Washington’s and Lincoln’s birthdays), the following prayer is to be recited:
“We thank Thee, O God, for having taught the founders of our Republic
laws that safeguard the equal rights of all citizens and impose equal obliga-
tions upon all.”80 This prayer, in effect, sacralizes American governance as
divinely sanctioned. Kaplan had included the American Declaration of Inde-
pendence as a supplementary prayer book reading. Four years earlier, Kaplan,
in The New Haggadah—co-edited with Ira Eisenstein and Eugene Kohn—
included a reference to the “sacred rights” of “life, liberty, and the pursuit
of happiness.”81 Eric Caplan provides an even fuller description:
Kaplan included services for all major American civic holidays in the sup-
plement, a clear outgrowth of his belief that Jewish Americans should
identify fully with their country’s history, heroes, culture, and ideals.
The text for Brotherhood Sabbath associates God with developments in
American history (“We thank Thee, O God, for having taught the found-
ers of our Republic laws that safeguard the equal rights of all citizens and
impose equal obligations upon all” [p. 539]) and reflects well Kaplan’s
view that all things that contribute to human moral progress are the
product of divine forces. The association of God with American history
is reinforced further by the use of “El Male” Rahamim to commemorate
the American war dead. The service for Memorial Day expresses the hope
that the example of those who were willing to die for the protection of the
United States “impel us to make our country great, its laws just and wise,
its culture deep and true, its economy productive, equitable and free, and
its religion profound and pure. . . . Then will no sacrifice for preserving
the nation be too high a price to pay” [pp. 541–542]. These services show
the same concern for ethical issues evident throughout the Sabbath Prayer
Book, and the linking of God to America gives the quest for American
civil rights a religious significance that helps render responsible American
citizenship fully compatible with Jewish values.
The prayer in the Sabbath Prayer Book makes American democracy sacred.
In June 1945, the Union of Orthodox Rabbis of the United States and Can-
ada not only excommunicated Kaplan—by invoking the cherem, the ancient
ban of excommunication—but burned the Sabbath Prayer Book as well. This
was reported in a story published in Time magazine:

Jewish Myths and Visions of America 141
In solemn session in Manhattan last week, the Union called the prayer
book a compound of “atheism, heresy and disbelief” and hurled at Dr.
Kaplan (who is not a member of the Union) a proclamation of excommu-
nication—first in its history. Then, after Rabbi Israel Rosenberg, president
of the Union, banned the Kaplan-edited prayers from all synagogues, an
excited young rabbi set fire to a copy of the book.82
This is one of several issues that brought Mordecai Kaplan into conflict
with Orthodox Judaism.83 This tension continues to this day. For instance,
in 1990, Arthur Green, a scholar of Hasidism and president of the Recon-
structionist Rabbinical College, stated the Reconstructionist position that
belief in the Jews as the “chosen” people was “mythic”:
I certainly do not want to say that our ancestors were lying to me when
they asserted chosenness, or that they were inaccurately recording their
impressions of the relationship they had with God . . . [but] I cannot give
them more than that. . . . “God has chosen Israel” is a mythic statement. . . .
This is the shared private religious speech of the Jewish People . . . [not]
a historical reality.84
The Sabbath Prayer Book has since been superseded, first by the old Kol
Haneshamah, and now by the new Kol Haneshamah series. The prayer for
America in the old Kol Haneshamah is as follows:
TORAH SERVICE: PRAYER FOR THE COUNTRY
Sovereign of the universe, mercifully receive our prayer for our land and
its government. Let your blessing pour out on this land and on all officials
of this country who are occupied, in good faith, with the public needs.
Instruct them from your Torah’s laws, enable them to understand your
principles of justice, so that peace and tranquility, happiness and free-
dom, might never turn away from our land. Please, WISE ONE, God of
the life-breath of all flesh, waken your spirit within all inhabitants of our
land, and plant among the peoples of different nationalities and faiths
who dwell here, love and brotherhood, peace and friendship. Uproot from
their hearts all hatred and enmity, all jealousy and vying for supremacy.
Fulfill the yearning of all the people of our country to speak proudly in its
honor. Fulfill their desire to see it become a light to all nations. Therefore,
may it be your will, that our land should be a blessing to all inhabitants
of the globe. Cause to dwell among all peoples friendship and freedom.
And soon fulfill the vision of your prophet: “Nation shall not lift up sword
against nation. Let them learn no longer ways of war.” And let us say:
Amen.85
The new Kol Haneshamah prayer book series includes Louis Ginzberg’s
prayer for America. Although Ginzberg’s name does not appear after this

142 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
prayer for the American government (yet remains a universal prayer that
may be invoked on behalf of any just government), “A Prayer for our coun-
try” [sic] appears on page 148:
Our God and God of our ancestors: We ask Your blessings for our country—
for its government, for its leaders and advisors, and for all who exercise just
and rightful authority. Teach them insights from Your Torah, that they may
administer all affairs of state fairly, that peace and security, happiness and
prosperity, justice and freedom may forever abide in our midst.
Creator of all flesh, bless all the inhabitants of our country with Your
spirit. May citizens of all races and creeds forge a common bond in true
harmony, to banish hatred and bigotry, and to safeguard the ideals and
free institutions that are the pride and glory of our country.
May this land, under Your providence, be an influence for good through-
out the world, uniting all people in peace and freedom—helping them to
fulfill the vision of Your prophet: “Nation shall not lift up sword against
nation, neither shall they learn war any more.” And let us say, Amen.86
This prayer is immediately followed, on page 149, by “A prayer for the
State of Israel (Siddur Sim Shalom, page 149)” [sic].
Jewish Americanism: The “Cult of Synthesis”
Jewish prayers for America have a living resonance. Various siddurs were
surveyed in this chapter, for the simple reason that “one of the most com-
prehensive and authoritative (but not systematic) statements of Jewish
theology is embedded in the siddur.”87 Earlier in this chapter, a Reform
rabbi was cited, who said: “Second only to the Torah, the siddur (prayer
book) expresses the ideology of our people.”88 The results of the present
writer’s survey of Jewish prayers of America has yielded this unexpected
result: From the fact that Louis Ginzberg’s “A Prayer for Our Country” is
recited in every Conservative synagogue every Sabbath,89 and presumably
also in every Reconstructionist Sabbath service, it would appear that the
American Jewish vision of America was best expressed by this singular
prayer. If the present writer can take this liberty, then the Jewish vision
of America that Ginzberg’s prayer translates into may be reduced to the
following principles:
JEWISH AMERICANS’ VISION OF AMERICA

1.  As faithful Jews, we are, each and all, loyal Americans.

2.  We have the best interests of America at heart.

3.  We call upon our government officials to be just and right in their
exercise of legitimate authority.

Jewish Myths and Visions of America 143

4.  We encourage our leaders to draw upon the wisdom enshrined in
the Torah.

5.  May peace and security, happiness and prosperity, justice and
freedom, one day, reign supreme in America.

6.  We seek God’s blessings on all Americans, irrespective of creed.

7.  In America, may all races and creeds live in true harmony.

8.  We seek to banish all forms of hatred and bigotry.

9.  We seek to safeguard our country’s ideals and free institutions—
the pride and glory of America.

10. May America be an influence for good throughout the world,
uniting all people in peace and freedom.

11. May Providence guide America in realizing Isaiah’s vision of uni-
versal peace.
These Jewish principles, expressed as universals, are all consonant, and
indeed resonate, with cherished American values. They exemplify Jewish
Americanism at its finest.
Jonathan D. Sarna describes the phenomenon of Jewish Americanism,
in which American Jews today merge their American and Jewish identities,
which he calls the “cult of synthesis.”90 By “cult,” Sarna means “a collective
veneration or worship . . . in which the collectivity is defined and united by
its common devotional practice.”91 Noting the synergy between American
Judaism and American civil religion, Sarna develops his thesis of the “cult
of synthesis,” and adduces abundant evidence for it:
This understanding of the American Jewish experience—the belief that
Judaism and Americanism reinforce one another, the two traditions con-
verging in a common path—encapsulates a central theme in American
Jewish culture that may be termed “the cult of synthesis.” Dating back
well over a century, it reflects an ongoing effort on the part of Ameri-
can Jews to interweave their “Judaism” with their “Americanism” in an
attempt to fashion for themselves some unified, “synthetic” whole. Any-
one even remotely connected with American Jewish life is familiar with
this theme, which has elsewhere been described as a central tenet of
American Jewish “civil religion.”92
Sarna’s thesis, in part, is that “such diverse American Jewish religious
leaders as Leo Jung, Samuel Belkin, Abba Hillel Silver, Jacob Rader Marcus,
Nelson Glueck, Louis Finkelstein, Simon Greenberg, and Robert Gordis
all argued in various ways for the compatibility of Judaism and American
democracy.”93 Mordecai Kaplan—who “at one point, explicitly sought to
redefine America from a Jewish perspective”—echoed the same idea in this
memorable way: “The American religion of democracy has room for Juda-
ism, and Jewish religion has room for American democracy.”94

144 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Among others, Sarna singles out for distinction Horace Kallen95—the
father of “cultural pluralism” (now known as “multiculturalism”). Horace
Kallen (1882–1974), a Jewish pragmatist philosopher, invented the term “cul-
tural pluralism” in 1907 at Oxford University, in conversations that he had
with Alain Locke (1885–1954, member of the Baha’i community since 1918),
who, earlier that year, had won national acclaim as the first African American
Rhodes Scholar. Kallen reports that “we had a race problem because Rhodes
Scholars from the South were bastards,” who “had a Thanksgiving dinner
which I refused to attend because they refused to have Locke.” Traumatized,
Locke mused: “What difference does the difference [of race] make? We are
all alike Americans.” And so, “in arguing out those questions the formulae,
then phrases, developed—’cultural pluralism,’ ‘the right to be different’,”
writes Kallen. Yet it was not until 1924 when the term “cultural pluralism”—
the antipode of “the melting pot”—first appeared in print. In Culture and
Democracy in the United States (in which Kallen’s essay, “Democracy versus
the Melting Pot” is reprinted, with minor changes), Kallen states: “Cultural
Pluralism . . . is the view that democracy is an essential prerequisite to cul-
ture, that culture can be and sometimes is a fine flowering of democracy, and
that the history of the relation of the two in the United States exhibits this
fact.” The counter-metaphor that Kallen proposes is that of the philharmonic.
“American civilization” may be envisioned as “the perfection of coöperative
harmonies” of “European civilization”—a “multiplicity in a unity, an orches-
tration of mankind” in which “every type of instrument has its specific timbre
and tonality” to create a veritable “symphony of civilization.”96
The phenomenon of Jewish Americanism arcs across all major forms of
American Judaism. In other words, Jewish Americanism is not the preserve
of one Jewish movement within the United States. Sarna cites the late emi-
nent sociologist, Charles Liebman, who, in discussing the “major ideas,
symbols, and institutions arousing the deepest loyalties and passions of
American Jews,” declared: “There is nothing incompatible between being a
good Jew and a good American, or between Jewish and American standards
of behavior. In fact, for a Jew, the better an American one is, the better Jew
one is.”97 So pervasive is the cult of synthesis that it “actually permeated
all of the major movements and ideologies of American Judaism.”98 Sarna
registers this point absolutely and emphatically: “All shared the firm belief
that Americanism and Judaism reinforced one another.”99
To be sure, significant differences exist among American Jews today as to
precisely how this salutary cultural symbiosis works best, in that American
Jews “take it as an article of faith that ‘American’ and ‘Jew’ can be reconciled.
What they debate is how the grand synthesis may best be accomplished, not
whether it is achievable in the first place.”100 To what extent Jewish Ameri-
canism has influenced other faith-communities is hard to say. What can
definitely be said is that American Judaism has, at heart, wholly embraced
American values. In fact, Jewish Americanism is a salient characteristic of
American Judaism generally. The two go hand-in-hand.

Jewish Myths and Visions of America 145
Chapter 6 Update: A Jewish Toast to America
To us the United States of America stands as the foremost among nations,
granting the greatest liberty to all who dwell here. Therefore we grace our
table with the National flag. . . .
The Fourth of July is the American Passover. Thanksgiving is the Amer-
ican Feast of Tabernacles. It is therefore quite in keeping with the service
this evening to pledge our country. In raising this third glass of wine to
our lips, let us pray that God will ever protect our land, that here liberty
may forever dwell, that peace may abide within her borders and prosperity
within her homes.
—Rabbi Dr. J. Leonard Levy (Pittsburgh, 1903)101
Figure 6.2. Touro Synagogue, Newport, Rhode Island. America’s oldest synagogue
(1763) and a national historic site. Note American flag on left. A symbol of religious
freedom for all Americans, the Touro Synagogue was commemorated by a post-
age stamp, issued in 1982 (commemorating President George Washington’s 250th
birthday), quoting these immortal words in his celebrated letter to the “Hebrew
congregation at Newport” in 1790:
“To bigotry, no sanction. To persecution, no assistance.”
(Photo by Swampyank at en.wikipedia, July 15, 2009. Black & white version of
color original.)

146 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
To this day, many Jews in the United States conclude the Passover seder
with the singing of the hymn, America.
—Jonathan D. Sarna (2008)102
On Nov. 2, 2011, Rabbi Jonathan Sacks opened the U.S. Senate with an
Invocation.103
Lord Rabbi Jonathan Sacks is former Chief Rabbi of United Hebrew
Congregations of the Commonwealth, a position he held for 22 years until
September 1, 2013. At the invitation of Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, Rabbi
Sacks served as as Guest Chaplain, a distinct honor. On this occasion, he
became the first UK Chief Rabbi to deliver an Invocation prayer before the
Senate. The full text of the prayer has been published. The prayer ends:
“Beloved God, bless the members of this United States Congress and guide
their deliberations, that they may govern this great nation with wisdom
and justice, grace and compassion, bringing honor to your name, and your
blessing to humankind.”104 Apparently this was a prayer for the occasion,
rather than a standard occasional prayer. Nonetheless, there is a hint of
America’s world role, by implying that enlightened decisions by the U.S.
Senate might be one agency for bringing God’s “blessing to humankind.”
What is implicit here is made explicit elsewhere, as American Jews continue
to pray for, support, and contribute to the progress of “this great nation.”
The siddur (“order” of prayers), or Hebrew prayer book “is the most
important book in Jewish history and in some ways the most influential.”105
Jonathan Sarna makes the general observation on Jewish prayers for Amer-
ica: “Close examination of these prayers, as we shall see, sheds light on
the Americanization of Judaism and on the changing relationship between
American Jews and the state.”106 What else can be said?
Historically, Judaism upholds patriotism as a duty. The common syna-
gogue practice of reciting a prayer for the welfare of the government during
Sabbath services derives from Jeremiah 29:7: “Seek the welfare of the city to
which I have caused you to go in exile, and pray to Adonai on its behalf; for
your welfare is bound up in its welfare” (CJV). Sometimes Jewish prayers
for the government have been seen as an “accommodation” or even as a
“smokescreen.” Neither of these descriptions applies to Jewish prayers for
the government of United States of America, because such prayers arise
from the heart of the American Jewish experience which, for the most part,
has been positive.
Since there is no supreme religious authority in American Judaism,
American Jews have freedom to innovate. What Jonathan Sarna has called a
“cult of synthesis” was previously discussed earlier in this chapter. Distinct
from “synthesis” is a process of Jewish Americanization that Sylvia Barack
Fishman calls “coalescence.”107 Coalescence supersedes adaptation. Adapta-
tion is a process of cultural accommodation with elements of the original
(Jewish) and “foreign” (American) value systems, with an awareness of

Jewish Myths and Visions of America 147
differences between the two. In the process of coalescence, elements from
both cultures merge, such that there is no longer any conscious awareness
of separation between the two.108 The result is that “Judaism is American-
ized and America is Judaized.”109
In 2008, Sarna wrote a book of advice, A Time to Every Purpose: Letters to a
Young Jew.110 Early in the book, Sarna recounts that his wife, Ima, as a little
girl, used a Passover haggadah (“the telling” of Exodus, recited on the first
two nights of Passover) prepared by Dr. J. Leonard Levy, her grandfather’s
rabbi, in Pittsburgh. Dr. Levy was rabbi of Rodef Shalom Congregation from
1901–1917. Rabbi Levy’s 39-page haggadah was nontraditional. It called for
placing an American flag on the seder (ritual and ceremonial dinner) table.
Part of the ritual included this remarkable liturgical dialogue:
Child: Where do we find civil, political, and religious liberty united
today?
Reader: Here in America. The fathers of this country fought against
oppression that here all men should be free and equal before the law; free
to worship God as their conscience dictated. To us the United States of
America stands as the foremost among nations, granting the greatest lib-
erty to all who dwell here. Therefore we grace our table with the National
flag. . . .
The Pilgrim Fathers landed here inspired by Israel’s wandering to go
out even to the wilderness and worship God. The immortal Declaration of
Independence is the Great Charter announced before Pharaoh by Moses.
The Abolitionists are the product of the Bible . . . The Fourth of July is the
American Passover. Thanksgiving is the American Feast of Tabernacles.
It is therefore quite in keeping with the service this evening to pledge
our country. In raising this third glass of wine to our lips, let us pray that
God will ever protect our land, that here liberty may forever dwell, that
peace may abide within her borders and prosperity within her homes. .111
This Passover haggadah is something of a Jewish “toast to America.”
Judaism in America is a success story, notwithstanding (and withstanding)
episodic anti-Semitism along the way. American Jewish history demon-
strates a profound compatibility between Jewish and American values—even
to the extent of hybridizing Jewish and American identity. These identities
generally are seen as complementary rather than conflicting. Jews have long
declared their public allegiance to the United States of America, and have
enriched American culture in all areas of civic life, as historian Jonathan
Sarna observes: “All major movements and ideologies within American
Judaism insisted that Americanism and Judaism reinforced each other, and
annually, on days like Thanksgiving, this message was reinforced, as if in an
effort to de-Christianize America’s cultural boundaries so as to render Jews
more welcome.”112 Such synergy between Judaism and American democracy
is a cause of celebration.

148 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
This chapter update will close by highlighting a 2014 journal article.
In “Race, Religion, or Ethnicity?: Situating Jews in the American Scene,”
Annalise Glauz-Todrank argues “that scholarship on Jewish American iden-
tity is typically both attentive to and itself deeply shaped by the myths that
comprise dominant American conceptions of identity, such as those that
inform and construct the social categories: religion, race, and ethnicity.”113
This includes the “the American origin myth regarding religious plural-
ism,”114 “the myth of their [early Americans’] tolerance,”115 “the myth of
American liberalism,”116 and other “myths about Americanness” as well.117
Such myths represent, yet do not exhaust, the constellation of myths that,
taken together, collectively define American national identity.
Historically, Jewish Americans constructed their dual identities as Jews
and Americans through the language of religion. Within the broad sweep
of national identity narratives, the American origin myth holds freedom of
religion as a foundational principle and structural cornerstone. Thus religion,
as a social category in the American context, is pluralistic in nature. Yet the
prevailing American notion of religion proceeds from a largely “Protestant
baseline.”118 On the part of Jewish Americans, this requires a certain degree
of religious accommodation to pluralism as a civic and religious value, includ-
ing an explicit and highly visible commitment to it. As one illustration of this,
Glauz-Todrank cites Beth Wenger’s 2012 book, History Lessons: The Creation of
American Jewish Heritage to underscore how American Jews creatively, strategi-
cally, and effectively wrote themselves into the American script:
Participating in national celebrations provided Jews the opportunity to
declare their allegiance to the United States while also expressing their
vision of what the nation should be. Jews seized public moments as occa-
sions to write themselves into the narratives of American history and to
make themselves and their culture pivotal actors in the creation of the
nation.119
Here, Wenger notes that Jewish Americans took national holidays as
occasions for publicly affirming their American loyalty. This included cel-
ebrating such quintessentially American civic holidays as Thanksgiving and
the Fourth of July in synagogues and Jewish community centers. Moreover,
American Jews creatively wove themselves into the warp and woof of the
American social tapestry by threading Jewish actors into the fabric of Amer-
ican history as it relates to the very formation of America itself.
As a diaspora haven, America’s “golden door” allowed Jewish immigrants
to settle and make new lives in America. While the streets were not “paved
in gold,” “golden cities” such as Miami and and Los Angeles saw the rise of
prosperous Jewish communities, accompanied by the advent and spread of
the “synagogue-center” (i.e., the so-called “shul with a pool”). As for a Jew-
ish “theology of America,” one might expect that America, as Israel’s greatest
ally, might be accorded some kind of providential special place within the

Jewish Myths and Visions of America 149
grand scheme of things. Since its establishment in 1948, the State of Israel
has been strongly supported by America, financially and militarily. Thus the
“Holy Land” (the Land of Israel) looks to the “Golden Land” (America) as
one of its pillars. Therefore, one would expect that some kind of divine sig-
nificance might attach to this crucial international fact. But the present writer
could not locate such sentiments in the literature consulted. Jewish appre-
ciation of America is obviously widespread. Notwithstanding the emergence
and efflorescence of the of Jewish theology in America, America has not been
invested with anything resembling a divine mandate.
And so, on November 19, 2013, Jonathan Sarna proposed that the two
counties take stock of “this long symbiotic relationship between Golden
Land and Promised Land,” in which “each has complemented and nourished
the other.” However, since the strength and vitality of this relationship has
weakened somewhat in recent years, Sarna suggests that Jews in both coun-
tries “need to strengthen the ties that bind Jews together.” “For Israelis,”
Sarna proposes, that requires . . . becoming acquainted with the American
Jewish experience, which is barely taught in Israeli schools and universi-
ties.” “For American Jews,” Sarna goes on to say, “it requires a new vision
of the relationship with Israel—one that is less imperious, paternalistic, and
insular, and instead more generous in its understanding of how others have
strengthened American Jewry, even as American Jewry has strengthened
them.” In fine, America and Israel represent “two great options in Jewish
life.” Therefore “each should nourish the other.”120
Notes

1. Lecture delivered before the Theological and Religious Library Associa-
tion of Cincinnati, January 7, 1869. See Isaac Mayer Wise, “Our Country’s
Place in History.” God’s New Israel: Religious Interpretations of American Des-
tiny, 224–234 [224, 226, 231, 234].

2. Qtd. in Beth S. Wenger, “Making American Civilization Jewish: Mordecai
Kaplan’s Civil Religion.” Jewish Social Studies 12.2 (2006): 56–63 [61].

3. Eli Lederhendler, “America: A Vision in a Jewish Mirror.” Jewish Responses
to Modernity: New Voices in America and Eastern Europe (New York: New York
University Press, 1994), 104–139 [113].

4. James H. Moorhead, “‘God’s Right Arm’? Minority Faiths and Protestant
Visions of America.” Minority Faiths and the American Protestant Mainstream.
Ed. Jonathan D. Sarna (Urbana/Chicago: University of Illinois Press, 1998),
335–361 [356].

5. Sam B. Girgus, “The New Covenant: The Jews and the Myth of America.”
The American Self: Myth, Ideology, and Popular Culture. Ed. idem (Albuquer-
que: University of New Mexico Press, 1981), 105–123; Girgus, The New
Covenant: Jewish Writers and the American Idea (Chapel Hill, NC: University
of North Carolina Press, 1984).

6. Jonathan D. Sarna, “Free-Market Judaism.”

150 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America

7. Jonathan S. Woocher, “Spirituality and the Civil Religion.” Secularism, Spiri-
tuality, and the Future of American Jewry. Ed. Elliott Abrams and David G.
Dalin (Washington, DC: Ethics and Public Policy Center, 1999), 19–25
[22]; idem, “‘Sacred Survival’ Revisited: American Jewish Civil Religion
in the New Millennium.” The Cambridge Companion to American Judaism. Ed.
Dana Evan Kaplan (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2005), 283–
298; idem, Sacred Survival: The Civil Religion of American Jews (Bloomington
and Indianapolis: Indiana University Press, 1986).

8. See “Treaty of Peace and Friendship between The United States and the
Bey and Subjects of Tripoli of Barbary, 1796–1797.” Treaties and Other
International Acts of the United States of America. Ed. Hunter Miller. Vol. 2.
1776–1818 (Washington, DC: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1931),
383; and The Journal of the Senate, including The Journal of the Executive Pro-
ceedings of the Senate, John Adams Administration, 1797–1801, Volume 1: Fifth
Congress, First Session; March–July, 1797. Ed. Martin P. Claussen (Wilming-
ton, DE: Michael Glazier, Inc., 1977).

9. Jonathan D. Sarna, “Church-State Dilemmas of Jewish Americans.” Jews
and the American Public Square: Debating Religion. Ed. Alan Mittleman, Rob-
ert Licht, and Jonathan D. Sarna ((Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield,
2002), 47.

10. See, e.g., Michael A. Meyer, “America: The Reform Movement’s Land of
Promise.” The American Jewish Experience. Ed. Jonathan D. Sarna (New York:
Holmes and Meier, 1997), 60–81; Alvin H. Rosenfeld, “Promised Land(s):
Zion, America, and American Jewish Writers.” Jewish Social Studies 3.3
(Spring–Summer 1997): 111–131.

11. Myer Moses, An Oration Delivered Before the Hebrew Orphan Society on the 15th
of October, 1806 (Charleston, SC, 1807), 6, 18, 19. Qtd. in James William
Hagy, This Happy Land: The Jews of Colonial and Antebellum Charleston. Judaic
Studies Series (Unnumbered) (Tuscaloosa: University of Alabama Press,
1993), 55.

12. “The Hebrews of America; The Union of Congregations in Session at Rich-
mond Discusses the Zionistic Movement.” New York Times (December 8,
1898). Qtd. in “Delegates Arrive for Hebrew Council; Representatives of
187 Congregations Gathering for the 22d Convention of the Union.” New
York Times (January 16, 1911).

13. Jacob Neusner, “Is America the Promised Land for Jews?” The Washing-
ton Post (1987). Reprinted in Zionism: The Sequel. Ed. Carol Diament (New
York: Hadassah, 1998): 121–128.

14. Jacob Neusner, “Stranger at Home: ‘The Holocaust.’” Zionism, and American
Judaism (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1981), 1 (emphasis added).

15. Michael Alexander, “The Meaning of American Jewish History.” Jewish
Quarterly Review 96.3 (2006): 423–432. (See p. 427, where Alexander com-
ments: “Exile is a powerful hermeneutic prism for the reading of history,
and Sarna takes the view of his subjects as his own; exiles and returns,
awakenings and declensions, these are different nomenclature for the same
interpretive principle.”)

16. Seymour Martin Lipset, “A Unique People in an Exceptional Country.”
American Pluralism and the Jewish Community (New Brunswick, NJ: Transac-
tion, 1990), 3–29.

Jewish Myths and Visions of America 151

17. Jonathan D. Sarna, “Columbus and the Jews.” Commentary 94:5 (November
1992): 38–41. Revised and expanded in idem, “The Mythical Jewish Colum-
bus and the History of America’s Jews.” Religion in the Age of Exploration.
Ed. Bryan F. Le Beau and Menahem Mor (Omaha: Creighton University
Press, 1996), 81–95.

18. Jonathan D. Sarna, Jacksonian Jew: The Two Worlds of Mordecai Noah (New
York: Holmes and Meier, 1981), 205, n. 46.

19. Gordon M. Freeman, “The Conservative Movement and the Public Square.”
Jewish Polity and American Civil Society: Communal Agencies and Religious Move-
ments in the American Public Square. Ed. Alan Mittleman, Robert A. Licht, and
Jonathan D. Sarna (New York: Rowman and Littlefield, 2002), 235–260
[236].

20. Rabbi Elliot L. Stevens, “The Prayer Books, They Are A’Changin’.” Reform
Judaism (Summer 2006). Emphasis added.

21. Jonathan D. Sarna, “Jewish Prayers for the United States Government: A
Study in the Liturgy of Politics and the Politics of Liturgy.” Moral Problems
in American History: Essays in Honor of David Brion Davis. Ed. Karen Halt-
tunen and Perry Lewis (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1998), 200–221
[201–202]. Reprinted in Liturgy in the Life of the Synagogue: Studies in the His-
tory of Jewish Prayer. Ed. Ruth Langer and Steven Fine. Duke Judaic Studies
2 (Winona Lake, IN: Eisenbrauns, 2005), 205–224.

22. For the complete text of the prayer, see “Items Related to New York Con-
gregation.” Publications of the American Jewish Historical Society 27 (1920):
34–37.

23. Michael Feldberg, Karla Goldman, Scott-Martin Kosofsky, Pamela S. Nadell,
Jonathan D. Sarna, and Gary P. Zola, Three Hundred Fifty Years: An Album of
American Jewish Memory (New York: American Jewish Historical Society and
the American Jewish Archives, 2005), 43.

24. [Tefilot Yisra’el]. Prayers of Israel, with an English Translation. 5th ed. (New
York: Henry Frank, 1856), 198–199 [198]. See Jonathan D. Sarna, “A Forgot-
ten 19th-Century Prayer for the United States Government: Its Meaning,
Significance, and Surprising Author.” Hesed Ve-Emet: Studies in Honor of Ernest
S. Frerichs. Ed. Jodi Magness and Seymour Gitin (Atlanta, GA: Scholars Press,
1998), 431–440 [432–433]. The present writer thanks the author, Jonathan
D. Sarna, for providing a copy of this excellent book article.

25. Sarna, “A Forgotten 19th-Century Prayer for the United States Govern-
ment: Its Meaning, Significance, and Surprising Author,” 435.

26. Jonathan D. Sarna, “Early Prayers for the United States Government.”
Prayer in America: Community Outreach Guide (PBS), 111–124 [119].

27. Ruth Langer, “Theologies of Self and Other in American Jewish Liturgies.”
CCAR Journal: A Reform Jewish Quarterly (Winter 2005): 3–41 [17].

28. Louis Jacobs, The Jewish Religion: A Companion (Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 1995), 370.

29. Ibid., 370.

30. Ibid., 371.

31. Ibid., 372.

32. “Prayer for the Government,” Daily Prayer Book (Ha-Siddur Ha-Shalem).
Translated and annotated with an Introduction by Philip Birnbaum (New
York: Hebrew Publishing Company, 1977), 380.

152 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America

33. Michael Walzer, “Who Is an American Jew?” Occasional Papers on Jewish Civi-
lization, Jewish Thought and Philosophy (Washington, DC: Program for Jewish
Civilization, Georgetown University, 2007), 8–15 [11].

34. Sarna, “Jewish Prayers,” 220.

35. Ibid., 220.

36. Ibid., 220.

37. Jacobs, The Jewish Religion, 92.

38. Israel Friedlaender, “The Problem of Judaism in America.” Past and Present:
A Collection of Jewish Essays (Cincinnati: Ark Publishing Co., 1919), 273,
who adds: “America is fast becoming the center of the Jewish people of the
Diaspora. . . . America is already the center of the Jews.”

39. David Golinkin, “Prayers for the Government and the State of Israel Yom
Haatzmaut 5766.” Insight Israel: The View from Schechter. Second Series (Jeru-
salem: The Schechter Institute of Jewish Studies, 2006), 114–125 [121].

40. Sarna, “Jewish Prayers,” 217.

41. Ibid., 217, n. 49.

42. Rabbi Morris Silverman, “A Prayer for Our Country.” High Holiday Prayer
Book. Compiled and arranged by Rabbi Morris Silverman (Hartford, CT:
Prayer Book Press of Media Judaica, 1951, 1962, 1979), 115.

43. Siddur Sim Shalom: A Prayer Book for Shabbat, Festivals, and Weekdays. Edited,
with translations, by Rabbi Jules Harlow (New York: The Rabbinical
Assembly, The United Synagogue of America, 1985), 415; David Golinkin,
ed., The Responsa of Professor Louis Ginzberg (New York, 1906), 54–55; Festival
Prayer Book (New York, 1927), 201; Sabbath and Festival Prayer Book (New
York, 1946), 130.

44. Langer, “Theologies of Self and Other in American Jewish Liturgies,” 41.

45. Sarna, “Jewish Prayers,” 217.

46. Ibid., 217.

47. James William Hagy, This Happy Land: The Jews of Colonial and Antebellum
Charleston. Judaic Studies Series (Unnumbered) (Tuscaloosa: University of
Alabama Press, 1993), 155.

48. Jonathan D. Sarna, “Early Prayers for the United States Government.”
Prayer in America: Community Outreach Guide (Public Broadcasting System,
2007), 111–124 [117].

49. Michael A. Meyer, “America: The Reform Movement’s Land of Promise.”
Response to Modernity: A History of the Reform Movement in Judaism (Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 1988; Detroit: Wayne State University Press,
1995).

50. Jacobs, The Jewish Religion, 416.

51. Central Conference of American Rabbis, “A Statement of Principles for
Reform Judaism.”

52. Jacobs, The Jewish Religion, 416.

53. Michael A. Meyer, “America: The Reform Movement’s Land of Promise.”
Response to Modernity: A History of the Reform Movement in Judaism (Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 1988; Detroit: Wayne State University Press,
1995).

54. Lecture delivered before the Theological and Religious Library Association
of Cincinnati, January 7, 1869. See Isaac Mayer Wise, “Our Country’s Place
in History.” God’s New Israel: Religious Interpretations of American Destiny,

Jewish Myths and Visions of America 153
224–234 [224, 226, 231, 234]. For similar messianic views of America,
see Gershon Greenberg, “The Significance of America in David Einhorn’s
Conception of History.” American Jewish Historical Quarterly 63 (December
1973): 160–184.

55. Chaim Stern, ed. Gates of Prayer: The New Union Prayer Book (New York:
Central Conference of American Rabbis, 1975).

56. Sarna, “Jewish Prayers,” 220.

57. Abraham J. Karp, Jewish Continuity in America: Creative Survival in a Free
Society. Judaic Studies Series (Unnumbered) (Tuscaloosa: University of
Alabama Press, 1998), 27.

58. Sarna, “Jewish Prayers,” 220.

59. Provided courtesy of Dr. Jay Liebowitz, Duquesne University, sent June 6,
2008.

60. Arnold M. Eisen, The Chosen People in America: A Study in Jewish Religious
Ideology (Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press, 1995), 52.

61. Jacobs, The Jewish Religion, 413.

62. Ibid., 414.

63. See Eric Caplan, From Ideology to Liturgy: Reconstructionist Worship and Ameri-
can Liberal Judaism. Monographs of the Hebrew Union College Series, no.
26. (Cincinnati: Hebrew Union College Press, 2002).

64. Jacobs, The Jewish Religion, 298.

65. Steven T. Katz, “Mordecai Kaplan’s Theology and the Problem of Evil.” Jew-
ish Social Studies 12.2 (2006): 115–126 [115].

66. Mordecai M. Kaplan, Judaism as a Civilization: Toward a Reconstruction of
American-Jewish Life (1934; reprint, Philadelphia, 1994).

67. Noam Pianko, “Reconstructing Judaism, Reconstructing America: The
Sources and Functions of Mordecai Kaplan’s ‘Civilization’.” Jewish Social
Studies: History, Culture, and Society 12.2 (Winter 2006): 39–55 [53].

68. Mordecai M. Kaplan, Judaism as a Civilization (1934; reprint, Philadelphia,
1994), 79. Qtd. in Noam Pianko, “Reconstructing Judaism, Reconstructing
America: The Sources and Functions of Mordecai Kaplan’s ‘Civilization’.” Jew-
ish Social Studies: History, Culture, and Society 12.2 (Winter 2006): 39–55 [50].

69. Beth S. Wenger, “Making American Civilization Jewish: Mordecai Kaplan’s
Civil Religion.” Jewish Social Studies 12.2 (2006): 56–63 [56–57].

70. Pianko, “Reconstructing Judaism, Reconstructing America,” 40.

71. Mordecai Kaplan, J. Paul Williams, and Eugene Kohn, eds., The Faith of
America: Readings, Songs and Prayers for the Celebration of American Holidays
(New York: Reconstructionist Press, 1951; reprint, New York, 1963).

72. Qtd. in Wenger, “Making American Civilization Jewish,” 58.

73. Mordecai Kaplan, The Greater Judaism in the Making (New York, 1960),
477–478. Qtd. in Mordecai Menahem Kaplan, Dynamic Judaism: The Essential
Writings of Mordecai M. Kaplan. Ed. Emanuel S. Goldsmith and Mel Scult
(New York: Fordham University Press, 1991), 170.

74. Wenger, “Making American Civilization Jewish,” 61.

75. Wenger, “Making American Civilization Jewish,” 62; Kaplan, Williams, and
Kohn, eds., The Faith of America, 305–328.

76. Sabbath Prayer Book: With a Supplement Containing Prayers, Readings and Hymns
and with a New Translation (New York: The Jewish Reconstructionist Foun-
dation, Inc., 1945).

154 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America

77. Abraham Lincoln, “First Inaugural Address” (Monday, March 4, 1861),
paragraph 31.

78. Abraham Lincoln, “The Gettysburg Address” (November 19, 1863).

79. Ibid.

80. Sabbath Prayer Book, 539. Qtd. in Wenger, “Making American Civilization
Jewish,” 61; Eric Caplan, From Ideology to Liturgy: Reconstructionist Worship
and American Liberal Judaism. Monographs of the Hebrew Union College
Series, no. 26 (Cincinnati: Hebrew Union College Press, 2002), 101.

81. Mordecai M. Kaplan, Ira Eisenstein, and Eugene Kohn, eds., The New Hag-
gadah for the Pesah Seder. Illus. Leonard Weisgard (New York: Behrman
House, Inc., 1941; newly Revised Edition, 1978), 51. Qtd. in Deborah
Dash Moore, “Judaism as a Gendered Civilization: The Legacy of Mordecai
Kaplan’s Magnum Opus.” Jewish Social Studies 12.2 (2006): 172–186 [176].

82. “Religion: The Old & the New,” Time magazine (Monday, June 25, 1945).

83. Jeffrey S. Gurock and Jacob J. Schachter, A Modern Heretic and a Traditional
Community: Mordecai M. Kaplan, Orthodoxy and American Judaism (New York:
Columbia University Press, 1997).

84. Arthur Green, “Response to Paper by David Novak” (unpublished address,
Association of Jewish Studies, 1990), 3–5 (condensed). Qtd. in Nancy
Fuchs-Kreimer, “Seventy Years After Judaism as a Civilization: Mordecai
Kaplan’s Theology and the Reconstructionist Movement.” Jewish Social
Studies 12.2 (2006): 127–142 [129].

85. “Tefilah Lememshalah/Prayer for the Country.” Kol Hanesshamah: Shabbat
Vehagim (Wyncote, PA: Reconstructionist Press, 1994), 418 [Hebrew, 419].
(Prayer from Rabindranath Tagore [Adapted] on p. 419.)

86. “Torah Service (Siddur Sim Shalom, page 139).”

87. Langer, “Theologies of Self and Other in American Jewish Liturgies,” 3.

88. Rabbi Elliot L. Stevens, “The Prayer Books, They Are A’Changin’.” Reform
Judaism (Summer 2006) (emphasis added).

89. Freeman, “The Conservative Movement and the Public Square,” 235.

90. Jonathan D. Sarna, “The Cult of Synthesis in American Jewish Culture.”
Jewish Social Studies 5.1/2 (1998/1999): 52–79.

91. Qtd. in Sarna, “Cult of Synthesis,” 53 (internal citation omitted).

92. Qtd. in Sarna, “Cult of Synthesis,” 52 (internal citation omitted).

93. Ibid., 57.

94. Qtd. in Sarna, “Cult of Synthesis,” 57 (internal citation omitted).

95. Ibid., 57.

96. See Christopher Buck, “Melting Pot.” Encyclopedia of Race, Ethnicity, and Soci-
ety. Ed. Richard T. Schaefer (Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 2008),
885–888 [886], and the references cited.

97. Charles Liebman, “Reconstructionism in American Jewish Life.” American
Jewish Year Book 71 (1970): 68. Qtd. in Sarna, “Cult of Synthesis,” 53.

98. Sarna, “Cult of Synthesis,” 56.

99. Ibid., 56.
100. Ibid., 72.
101. Rabbi Dr. J. Leonard Levy, Haggadah or Home Service for the Festival of Pass-
over, 7th ed. (Pittsburgh: Rodef Shalom Congregation, 1922; original ed.,
1903), 25–27. Qtd. in Jonathan D. Sarna, A Time to Every Purpose: Letters to
a Young Jew (New York: Basic Books, 2008), 5–6.

Jewish Myths and Visions of America 155
102. Sarna, A Time to Every Purpose, 6.
103. Rabbi Jonathan Sacks, “A Prayer for America: Rabbi Jonathan Sacks at
the U.S. Senate.” See http://www.chabad.org/multimedia/media_cdo/
aid/1670230/jewish/A-Prayer-for-America.htm. (Accessed November 17,
2014.)
104. Jonny Paul, “UK Chief Rabbi Delivers Invocation Prayer at US Senate.”
Jerusalem Post (November 3, 2011). http://www.jpost.com/Jewish-World/
Jewish-Features/UK-Chief-Rabbi-delivers-Invocation-prayer-at-US-Sen-
ate. (Accessed November 17, 2014.)
105. David Aberbach, “Nationalism, Reform Judaism and the Hebrew Prayer
Book.” Nations and Nationalism 12.1 (January 2006): 139–159 [139].
106. Jonathan D. Sarna, “Jewish Prayers for the United States Government: A
Study in the Liturgy of Politics and the Politics of Liturgy,” Liturgy in the Life
of the Synagogue: Studies in the History of Jewish Prayer. Ed. Ruth Langer and
Steven Fine. Duke Judaic Studies, 2 (Winona Lake, IN: Eisenbrauns, 2005),
205–224 [206].
107. Sylvia Barack Fishman, “Coalescing American and Jewish Values,” Jewish
Life and American Culture (Albany, NY: State University of New York Press,
2000), 15–31.
108. Sylvia Barack Fishman, Review of History Lessons: The Creation of American
Jewish Heritage. By Beth S. Wenger. Jewish History 27 (2013): 141–143 [143].
109. Fishman, “Coalescing American and Jewish Values,” Jewish Life and Ameri-
can Culture, 15–31.
110. Jonathan D. Sarna, A Time to Every Purpose: Letters to a Young Jew (New York:
Basic Books, 2008).
111. Rabbi Dr. J. Leonard Levy, Haggadah or Home Service for the Festival of Pass-
over, 25–27. Qtd. in Sarna, A Time to Every Purpose, 5–6.
112. Jonathan D. Sarna, American Judaism: A History (New Haven/London: Yale
University Press, 2004), 197.
113. Annalise E. Glauz-Todrank, “Race, Religion, or Ethnicity?: Situating Jews
in the American Scene.” Religion Compass 8 (2014): 303–316 [303].
114. Glauz-Todrank, “Race, Religion, or Ethnicity?: Situating Jews in the Ameri-
can Scene,” 305.
115. Glauz-Todrank, “Race, Religion, or Ethnicity?: Situating Jews in the Ameri-
can Scene,” 305.
116. Glauz-Todrank, “Race, Religion, or Ethnicity?: Situating Jews in the Ameri-
can Scene,” 307.
117. Glauz-Todrank, “Race, Religion, or Ethnicity?: Situating Jews in the Ameri-
can Scene,” 312.
118. Glauz-Todrank, “Race, Religion, or Ethnicity?: Situating Jews in the Ameri-
can Scene,” 305.
119. Glauz-Todrank, “Race, Religion, or Ethnicity?: Situating Jews in the American
Scene,” 306, citing Beth S. Wenger, History Lessons: The Creation of American
Jewish Heritage (Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2012), 367.
120. Jonathan D. Sarna, qtd. in “Promised Land, Golden Land: Why Jewish Sur-
vival Depends on Both Israel and America,” Tablet: A New Read on Jewish
Life (November 19, 2013). (Emphasis added.) See http://tabletmag.com/
jewish-news-and-politics/153164/promised-land-golden-land. (Accessed
December 26, 2014.)

Figure 7.1. Conference Center of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,
balcony level (3rd floor), Salt Lake City, Utah.
(Public domain. Photo taken April 29, 2006.)

Chapter 7
Mormon Myths and
Visions of America
I established the Constitution of the land, by the hands of wise men whom
I raised up unto this very purpose.
—Jesus Christ (in Mormonism)1
The city of Zion spoken of by David, in the one hundred and second Psalm,
will be built upon the land of America.
—Joseph Smith (1833)2
Mormons have exotic mythic and visionary accounts of America.
The word “Mormons” is the popular name for followers of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS). (LDS is the “revealed” name of
the church.) LDS was founded by the prophet Joseph Smith (1805–1844)
in 1830. Since that time, the Mormon church, by virtue of its missionary
zeal, has spread to many parts of the world, its far-flung membership thus
constituting a global community. On June 24, 2007, President Gordon B.
Hinckley (the fifteenth Mormon president), addressing the New Mission
Presidents’ Seminar, announced that LDS church membership had reached
13 million (the official 2013 figure is 15,082,028),3 with more Mormons
residing outside the United States than within, thus reflecting the global
breadth and diversity of its worldwide membership.4 As the fourth largest
“church” in the United States by some accounts,5 the Mormons are a sizable
body of religious adherents who communally share religious convictions
about America.
What is Mormonism? One may answer this question through introducing
three major dimensions of Mormon doctrine and praxis: (1) restorationism;
(2) perfectionism; (3) millenarianism. Restorationism (also known as primi-
tivism) is the reestablishment of the original Christian church, as indicated
in Article 6 of the Articles of Faith, a Mormon creed: “We believe in the
same organization that existed in the Primitive Church, namely, apostles,

158 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
prophets, pastors, teachers, evangelists, and so forth.”6 Millenarianism is the
belief in a future, 1,000-year reign of Christ on earth, as taught in Article
10 of the Articles of Faith: “We believe in the literal gathering of Israel and
in the restoration of the Ten Tribes; that Zion will be built upon this [the
American] continent; that Christ will reign personally upon the earth; and
that the earth will be renewed and receive its paradisiacal glory.”7 Perfection-
ism is basically a doctrine of eternal progression, of becoming more divine
(God-like) in the process—i.e., the possibility of man becoming equal with
Christ and God—as promised in Doctrine and Covenants: “Wherefore, as it is
written, they are gods, even the sons of God—”; 8“And then shall the angels
be crowned with the glory of his might, and the saints shall be filled with
his glory, and receive their inheritance and be made equal with him.”9 Mor-
mon restorationism has been analyzed, inter alia, by Jan Shipps,10 Mormon
millenarianism by Grant Underwood,11 and Mormon perfectionism by John
Brooke.12 These categories will be variously applied throughout this chap-
ter. A brief explanation of each category follows.
Restorationism: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints arose
during the season of revivals known as the Second Great Awakening. (The
first Great Awakening, 1725–1765, was followed by the Second Great
Awakening, 1795–1860.) Established in 1830, the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints presents itself as true Christianity restored. This is a
form of primitivism, which is belief in the necessity of restoring Christ’s
apostolic or “primitive” church. As an end-times religion, Mormonism sees
itself as “that old-time religion.”
In nineteenth-century America, the time became ripe for the great
Restoration commenced by Smith and his followers, supported by LDS
restoration scriptures, especially the Book of Mormon. The Restoration was
long overdue, for Christianity is said to have undergone a “Great Apostasy”
during the apostolic age.13 Preparations for the Restoration began in 1820,
through the appearance of two divine personages to Joseph Smith, then a
youth, on his family’s farm near Palmyra, New York.14 In this First Vision
(also called the “Grove Experience”), both God the Father and Jesus per-
sonally appeared to Joseph Smith. (In Joseph Smith’s original 1832 version
of the First Vision, however, only one Personage, the Son, appeared to the
young seer.)15 The First Vision may be seen as an “Annunciation,” preparing
the youthful Smith for a prophetic vocation. In this vision, the 14-year-old
youth was told not to join any churches of the day. This, in and of itself,
implied that Jesus did not recognize any current form of Christianity as fully
authentic. Other contemporary movements were making similar claims.
The First Vision is foundational, for it not only establishes Joseph Smith’s
prophetic credentials in the eye of Mormons, but discloses the reality and
nature of God as well. The significance of the First Vision in Mormon belief
is paramount, as one Mormon historian notes: “Its importance is second
only to belief in the divinity of Jesus of Nazareth.”16 God the Father and Jesus
Christ appeared to Joseph Smith as celestial human beings. This apparition

Mormon Myths and Visions of America 159
was real and underscores Mormon perfectionism, which is related to the
Restoration. In one sense, the First Vision may be viewed as a restoration
of the true knowledge of God. There was a restoration of the priestly office
and its charismatic prerogative as well. This took place on May 15, 1829.
The Restoration is “the signal event of the post-biblical age.”17 On April
6, 1830, Joseph Smith is said to have completed the process of restoring
the true church to its pristine form. This was an ecclesiastical restora-
tion. According to Shipps, there were actually three types of restoration:
(1) restoration of church and priesthood; (2) restoration of Israel; and (3)
“the restoration of all things,” referring to the final overlay of perfectionist
tenets in the closing years of Joseph Smith’s ministry.18 Here, one sees the
three major dimensions used in this framework of analysis: Mormon resto-
rationism, millenarianism, and perfectionism.
Because of its paramount importance, a brief overview of Mormon
priestly orders is needed. One Mormon historian’s description of the resto-
ration of the priesthoods that purportedly existed in primitive Christianity,
which the Mormon church has now restored, illustrates this key LDS truth
claim:
This restoration was effected by the Lord through the Prophet Joseph
Smith, who, together with Oliver Cowdery, in 1829, received the Aaronic
Priesthood (the Levitical priesthood) under the hands of John the Baptist;
and later the Melchizedek Priesthood under the hands of the former-day
apostles, Peter, James, and John.19
Of these two orders, that of Melchizedek is greater, having the same author-
ity as the righteous king and high priest after whom the priesthood was
named.
In the LDS Church, however, there are actually three grand orders of
priesthood: the Melchizedek, the Aaronic, and the Patriarchal.20 As the name
implies, the patriarchal order includes the right of worthy, ordained fathers
to preside over their descendants for all time. Women are not ordained
into priesthood. The issue of Mormon priesthood takes on added signifi-
cance, considering the priesthood ban for all black males—a policy that was
rescinded (but not repudiated)—by a divine revelation in 1978. This racial
dimension to the Mormon priesthood will be discussed later in this chapter.
Both the Aaronic Priesthood21 and the Melchizedek Priesthood22 are consid-
ered essential to theocracy, or the government of God, which takes place in
the Millennium.
Millenarianism: Mormonism has introduced America into the millen-
nial scheme of things. Today—which is to say, in these “latter days”—the
first church is now the last church, being the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints. Because it sees itself as the restoration of original Chris-
tianity, Mormonism is the only true church: “The Latter-day Saints declare
their high claim to the true Church organization, similar in all essentials

160 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
to the organization effected by Christ among the Jews.”23 Embodying both
the doctrine and ecclesial structure of the apostolic church, the primitiv-
ism of the LDS church is both normative and jurisdictional. Through his
millennialism, Joseph Smith’s primitivism became, in fact, a full-blown dis-
pensationalism, transforming all traditional notions of Christianity.
Perfectionism: As the term implies, perfectionism (also known as Her-
meticism in relation to Mormonism) is the belief in the perfectibility of
human character and nature. Typically, this refers to the quest for immortal-
ity, both spiritual and physical. LDS doctrine teaches a progressive path to
deification. As Joseph Smith himself states: “Every man who reigns in celes-
tial glory is a God to his dominions.”24 “Hermeticism,” in Brooke’s view,
“explains the more exotic features of the inner logic of Mormon theology.”25
Despite some of the features it has in common with perfectionism gener-
ally, Brooke asserts that “the Mormon claim of a revealed restoration ideal
has few parallels, and the combination of temple ritual, polygamous mar-
riage, three-tiered heavens, the coequality of spirit and matter, and promise
of godhood is essentially unique.”26
Latter-day Saints view God the Father in anthropomorphic terms. In a
literal reading of Genesis 1:26, man is created in the “image and likeness”
of God. Therefore, God must have an image and form as well. According
to Joseph Smith, “The Father has a body of flesh and bones as tangible as
man’s; the Son also; but the Holy Ghost has not a body of flesh and bones,
but is a personage of Spirit.”27 God is an exalted man. He stands as the pro-
totype of human potential for perfection. The path to this perfection was
not previously known, nor could it be followed, until the true gospel had
been restored. This was Joseph Smith’s mission. By means of the Restora-
tion, people can now embark on the path of perfectionism. The primary
scriptural source for Mormon perfectionism is the King Follett Discourse
(April 7, 1844, funeral sermon preached by Joseph Smith on behalf of Mor-
mon notable Elder King Follett), in which Joseph Smith states, in part:
God Himself who sits enthroned in yonder heavens is a Man like unto one
of yourselves—that is the great secret! . . . For I am going to tell you how
God came to be God and what sort of a being He is. For we have imagined
that God was God from the beginning of all eternity. I will refute that idea
and take away the veil so you may see. . . . The first principle of truth and
of the Gospel is to know for a certainty the character of God, and that . . .
He once was a man like one of us and that God Himself, the Father of us
all, once dwelled on an earth the same as Jesus Christ himself did in the
flesh and like us.28
Put more succinctly, this doctrine is expressed in the oft-quoted couplet
by Lorenzo Snow (fifth president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints): “As man now is, God once was; as God is now man may be.”29
Atonement assures resurrection, but not exaltation. “In its final form,”

Mormon Myths and Visions of America 161
Brooke concludes, “the Mormon doctrine of salvation made the gift of grace
through faith in Christ’s atonement a necessary condition for salvation but
not a sufficient condition.”30 Mormon soteriology makes a “critical distinc-
tion . . . between simple salvation and divine exaltation.”31 Beyond salvation
is exaltation (deification). Exaltation is ultimate salvation.32
With this three-dimensional framework of analysis for Mormon doctrine
and praxis in place, one can now introduce the Book of Mormon—the central
Mormon scripture—in which some of the key Mormon myths and visions
of America are enshrined.
The Book of Mormon: The central Mormon scripture is the Book of Mor-
mon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ. While acknowledging the traditional
Holy Land as, indeed, holy, the Book of Mormon, along with other Mormon
scriptures, has recast America (and the Americas, that is, the New World
as a whole) as a sacred landscape. In other words, in the Mormon view of
it, America is the new Holy Land. So what makes America holy, in the Mor-
mon conception of it?
Joseph Smith is said to have both discovered and produced the Book of
Mormon, which is purportedly “an account written by the hand of Mormon
upon plates taken from the Plates of Nephi,” as the title page of the Book
of Mormon proclaims. These are “gold plates” revealing the “history” of
ancient America. This history begins with the prophet Lehi, a Jerusalem-
born descendant of Joseph, said to have left Israel and ultimately founded
a colony in the New World, some 600 years before Christ. Thus Lehi, not
Christopher Columbus, discovered America, as the Book of Mormon implies.
The subsequent history of Lehi’s progeny in America, the appearance of
Jesus Christ in America, and the pre-Columbian history of the American
Indians are chronicled in the Book of Mormon, which was indelibly, if unin-
telligibly, inscribed on golden plates.
Shortly after Lehi’s party’s arrival in the New World, family quarrels
fragmented clans into two warring nations. Over the 1,000-year period that
the Book of Mormon chronicles, the saga of these two nations’ decline and
fall is told. The signal moment of peace and prosperity came as the result of
a visit by the risen, resurrected Jesus Christ to the peoples of ancient Amer-
ica, where He established His church, as in the Old World. For nearly 200
years following Christ’s visit, the church flourished. Over time, however,
apostasy set in, as the Christianized inhabitants of ancient America precipi-
tously abandoned Christ’s teachings. Wickedness prevailed, war ensued,
and extermination resulted.
Over the course of these centuries, meticulous records were said to have
been kept on metal plates. One of the last of these historians was Mormon,
an ancient American prophet who abridged this history and inscribed it on
gold plates. The last of the ancient American prophets and sole survivor of
his now-extinct nation, Moroni, protectively buried the gold plates—which
are gilded history, quite literally—in the fifth century. Moroni buried the
plates in a hillside, today called the Hill Cumorah, located in Palmyra, New

162 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
York. While Moroni’s burial of this book reportedly preserved this sacred
history, it remained hidden for 14 centuries. How Joseph Smith came to
discover this sacred history of America—and how he came to decipher the
ancient language it contained—is explained, in Mormon belief, as a divinely
inspired series of events.
Born on December 23,1805, in Sharon, Vermont, Joseph Smith, Jr., was
troubled, as a teenager, by the maelstrom of competing faiths and religious
conflicts that plagued the churches in America. In 1820, at the age of 14, the
young Smith experienced a theophany, or vision of God, which Mormons
commonly refer to as “the First Vision.” In 1823, Moroni returned and led
young Joseph Smith to the hidden plates. These gold plates were in the
temporary custody of Joseph Smith, who, according to Mormon accounts,
permitted three men to actually see them and another eight men to handle
them. The written testimony of these witnesses follow the Book of Mormon’s
introduction.
Joseph translated the plates in about three months after which he
returned them to the angel Moroni. In June 1829, Joseph Smith completed
his translation of the plates by means of the Urim and Thummim, a device
which, in biblical times, a high priest would wear on his breastplate and
by means of which that priest would divine the will of God.33 Described as
“two stones in silver bows,”34 the Urim and Thummim enabled the prophet
to interpret the engravings on the gold plates. It evidently functioned much
like a seer stone. The Book of Mormon was first published in 1830, with a
print run of 5,000 copies at a cost of $3,000.35
When people think of the Mormons, they typically do not think first
of Mormons’ beliefs about America. True, the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints has its distinctive doctrines—of restoration, progression,
revelation, ordinances, patriarchy, Jesus Christ, and the heavens. In addi-
tion to these, Mormonism also has a rich fund of what can properly be
called religious myths and visions of America. One could write an entire
book on this topic. One Mormon author, E. Douglas Clark, has compiled
a book of relevant Mormon texts on the topic of America.36 The Mormon
myth of America covers its past, present, and future. Generally, however,
Mormon sources consistently portray the destiny of America as glorious. To
inquiring minds, while the Mormon vision of America may be “too good to
be true,” the existence of such beliefs about America is a fascinating social
phenomenon.
The LDS Church has exhibited a duality of attitudes towards America.
As historian Richard Bushman succinctly states: “The American land was
given an honored place in Book of Mormon sacred history, but American civi-
lization was not.”37 Moreover: “Mormon optimism arose not from romantic
hope for America but from the faith grounded in the Book of Mormon that
God would redeem the land from the evil that prevailed there.”38
America, in Mormon belief, has spiritual roots, a divine mandate for
the present, and a theocratic future. In the words of one scholar, Mormons

Mormon Myths and Visions of America 163
added “to the disembodied outline of the millennial dream the firm con-
tours of America.”39
The Garden of Eden Myth
Unique as it is, the LDS Church is not without precedents. Primitivism
inspired restorationist churches in America, such as the Churches of Christ
(also known as “Campbellites”) and the Disciples of Christ. That the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints sees itself as the one, true church is
obviously a truth-claim that raises center-and-periphery issues with respect
to mainstream Christianity. Mormon primitivism is not simply a restoration
of the primitive Church as conceived by Joseph Smith. LDS primitivism
extends as far back as the Garden of Eden, where salvation history begins.
America, in Mormon belief, has had a special place in salvation history
since primordial times. America was once Paradise. Brigham Young, who
succeeded Mormon prophet-founder Joseph Smith after the latter was
assassinated in 1844, disclosed that the Garden of Eden was located in
the heart of ancient America: “In the beginning, after this earth was pre-
pared for man, the Lord commenced his work upon what is now called the
American continent, where the Garden of Eden was made.”40 A direct link
between the Latter Days and creation resides in the Mormon belief that
the Garden of Eden was located in what is now Independence, in Jackson
County, Missouri. “Independence was to be the location of Enoch’s city,”
Brooke writes, “because it had once been Paradise itself. From this Garden
of Eden, centrally located in the North American continent, Adam had been
expelled to ‘Adam ondi Ahman,’ where he gathered his posterity, and from
where Noah had sailed his ark to Palestine during the Flood.41 Official LDS
statements back this claim: President Heber C. Kimball (1801–1868), for-
mer counselor in the First Presidency, pinpointed Eden’s precise location:
“The spot chosen for the garden of Eden was Jackson County, in the state of
Missouri, where [the city of] Independence now stands; it was occupied in
the morn of creation by Adam.”42
The Lost Tribes Myth
The Mormon myth of America’s pre-Columbian history is also racial. The
Book of Mormon is at once a history of the Native Americans and a history
of Israel in America,43 because Indians were Israelites unawares (but not at
first unaware of the Israelite heritage, according to LDS doctrine). “Inde-
pendence was to be the location of Enoch’s city,” Brooke writes, “because it
had once been Paradise itself. From this Garden of Eden, centrally located
in the North American continent, Adam had been expelled to ‘Adam ondi
Ahman,’ where he gathered his posterity, and from where Noah had sailed

164 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
his ark to Palestine during the Flood. Thus three waves of Old World immi-
grants—Jaredites, Nephites, and Euro-Americans—had come to the New
World in search of Paradise.”44
Prior to Smith’s discovery and translation of the Book of Mormon, efforts
had been made to historicize the legend of the ten Lost Tribes, Jews who the
Assyrians exiled in 722 BCE and who mysteriously vanished from history.
In the biblical account, all Jewish tribes, except for Judah and Benjamin,
were exiled to Halah and Habor by the River Gozan.45 There has been much
speculation ever since as to the fate of these Ten Tribes, but the most famous
has been their identification with Native Americans, as conjectured by the
Amsterdam Rabbi Manasseh ben Israel in his Hope of Israel (1650). The
same idea stood at the center of Ethan Smith’s work, View of the Hebrews, or
the Tribes of Israel in America (1823).46
Given this background, it is evident that the Book of Mormon has a con-
text. But the Book of Mormon does not speculate on their fate beyond the
simple conjecture that the ten Lost Tribes had probably migrated to the
northern climes.47 “And they who are in the north countries,” Joseph Smith
proclaimed, “shall come in remembrance before the Lord” where “their
prophets shall hear his voice” and “shall smite the rocks, and the ice shall
flow.”48
The Book of Mormon focuses, not on the ten Lost Tribes, but on the Jew-
ish prophet Lehi,49 from the Tribe of Joseph through his son Manasseh.
Lehi is said to have departed for America with a tiny band of Jews, who left
from Jerusalem, not Assyria, 125 years after the Assyrian conquest. Indians
are therefore Israelites. According to the Book of Mormon, America was first
populated by three groups of emigrants: the Jaredites, the Nephites, and
the Mulekites. The Jaredites came first, followed by the Nephites and Mule-
kites. The Jaredites were led by a prophet known only as the “brother of
Jared.” After the dispersion that followed the Tower of Babel, around 2250
BCE by some Mormon estimates (the date is not essential), the Jaredites set
sail in “barges” towards the “Promised Land” (America).
Evidently, there were eight such vessels, each illuminated by two lumi-
nescent stones, “white and clear,”50 placed fore and aft. By this mysterious
technology, these ships had to withstand all the vicissitudes of an ardu-
ous, transoceanic journey that lasted 344 days. After the Jaredites came the
Nephites. They were led to America by the Hebrew prophet Lehi, around 589
BCE.51 According to the Book of Mormon, soon after his resurrection, Jesus
Christ appeared in America to both the Nephites (descendants of Nephi, a
great prophet who lived around 600 BCE) and the Lamanites. Jesus said:
“And behold, this people will I establish in this land, unto the fulfilling of
the covenant which I made with your father Jacob; and it shall be a New
Jerusalem. And the powers of heaven shall be in the midst of this people; yea,
even I will be in the midst of you’.”52 By asserting Israelite origins for Native
Americans, with Jesus Christ having appeared to them, the Book of Mormon
has succeeded in establishing America as another Holy Land.

Mormon Myths and Visions of America 165
By this mysterious technology, these ships had to withstand all the
vicissitudes of an arduous, transoceanic journey. They had to endure tem-
pests and fierce winds, stirring up “mountain waves” that buffeted and,
quite literally, “buried” the ships.53 To make a long story short, the Jar-
edites became extinct, due to their wickedness, around 590 BCE. The last
great Jaredite prophet and chronicler was Ether, whose history, The Book
of Ether, was recorded on 24 gold plates.54 Ether foretold the future estab-
lishment of “a New Jerusalem upon this land [America].”55 But this vision
concerned another people entirely, for the Jaredites were on the brink of
extinction.
After the Jaredites came the Nephites. They were led to America by the
Hebrew prophet Lehi, around 589 BCE.56 Rival claims to prophetic office
advanced by Laman, eldest son of Lehi, and by Nephi, Lehi’s designated
successor, led to an eventual division between the Lamanites and Nephites
(named after these two sons of Lehi). The Nephites had first occupied the
southern climes, while the “Land of Mulek” (after descendants of Mulek,
the “son of Zedekiah”) was to the north. Internal divisions split the
Nephites into the Nephites and Lamanites. Nephi became the founder of a
flourishing civilization of farmers and city builders. But Laman broke away
and led a nomadic band of outlaws who continually menaced the Nephites,
in consequence of which the Lamanites were cursed with dark skin.57 The
Mulekites eventually merged with the Nephites. The inhabitants of the
New World were believed to have all been the direct descendants of the
patriarch Joseph.
According to the Book of Mormon, soon after his resurrection, Jesus Christ
appeared in America to both the Nephites (descendants of Nephi, a great
prophet who lived around 600 BCE) and the Lamanites. Jesus said: “And
behold, this people will I establish in this land, unto the fulfilling of the cov-
enant which I made with your father Jacob; and it shall be a New Jerusalem.
And the powers of heaven shall be in the midst of this people; yea, even I
will be in the midst of you’.”58 In his synopsis of the writings of Ether, the
prophet Moroni writes: “Behold, Ether saw the days of Christ, and he spake
concerning a New Jerusalem upon this land [America].”59
Distant traces of historical memory of Christ’s appearance in the Amer-
icas are said to have been preserved in selected ethnographic accounts
of culture heroes, especially those myths surrounding the Toltec civi-
lizer, Quetzalcoatl.60 A Mormon film, Christ in America, treats the legend
of Quetzalcoatl as an ancient memory of Christ’s visitation to the New
World as sober fact. LDS apologists still have to contend with skeptics
and critics, who point to alleged anthropological anachronisms in the text
(horses, wheat, steel swords, etc.). But faith in both the Book of Mormon
and Joseph Smith’s inspired translation of it sustain the authority of the
text. This faith is undergirded by perceived evidences of ancient Judaic
characteristics that the Book of Mormon exhibits, independent of any apolo-
getic approach.

166 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Eventually, the savage Lamanites slaughtered the Nephites. Subsequently,
the Lamanites “became dark in skin and benighted in spirit.”61 Native Ameri-
cans are said to be their descendants. The last set of records of the Nephites
was written by Mormon (c. 333 CE) and buried in the Hill Ramah (Jaredite
name for Hill Cumorah). The record of these peoples is contained in abridged
form in the Book of Mormon, said to have been written in “reformed Egyptian”
and inscribed on gold plates, which Joseph Smith translated. It was Mor-
mon’s son, Moroni (whom Mormons identify as the angel of Revelation 14:6,
although Bruce McConkie and others hold that this verse could refer to other
angels as well), who appeared to Joseph Smith to lead him to discover where
the plates had been hidden. They were deposited in a stone vault and buried
in the Hill Cumorah, near the village of Manchester, New York. The prophet
came into possession of these gold plates on September 22, 1827. A facsimile
of the characters exists in a circular published with the heading, “Stick of
Joseph taken from the Hand of Ephraim: A Correct Copy of the Characters
taken from the Plates [of] the Book of Mormon.”62 This “stick of Joseph” was
added to the “stick of Judah”—a euphemism for the Bible.
The Book of Mormon describes America as “the land of promise”63 for a
Jewish remnant, who would traverse “across the great deep into the prom-
ised land”64:
And behold, this people [Jewish remnant = Nephites/Lamanites] will I
establish in this land [America], unto the fulfilling of the covenant which
I made with your father Jacob; and it shall be a New Jerusalem. And the
powers of heaven shall be in the midst of this people; yea, even I [Jesus
Christ] will be in the midst of you.65
America would also be home to “Gentiles” who “were white, and exceed-
ingly fair and beautiful.”66 Together, the Jews and Gentiles of America will
work together to build the New Jerusalem: “And then shall they [Gentiles
= Euro-Americans] shall assist my people [remnant of Jacob = Lamanites
= Native Americans] that they may be gathered in, who are scattered upon
all the face of the land, in unto the New Jerusalem.”67
By asserting Israelite origins for Native Americans, with Jesus Christ
having appeared to them, the Book of Mormon has succeeded in establishing
America as another Holy Land. As the saga of the Nephites and Lamanites,
the Book of Mormon purports to be a faithful and inspired account of the his-
tory of Native Americans. They were thus among the first to be evangelized
in the “Latter Day.” In October 1830, Joseph Smith sent Oliver Cowdery,
Parley P. Pratt, Peter Whitmer, and Ziba Peterson on the Church’s first mis-
sion to the Lamanites.68 They preached to the Cattaraugus in western New
York, to the Wyandots of western Ohio, and to the Delawares and Shawnees
in eastern Kansas.69 Proselyting among the American Indians would hasten
the promised conversion of all Israel.70

Mormon Myths and Visions of America 167
The Columbus Myth
Apart from a single verse, Christopher Columbus has no religious signifi-
cance for Mormons. His inclusion here is because of the scriptural allusion.
The Book of Mormon, Latter-day Saints generally believe, foretells the 1492
voyage of Christopher Columbus:
And I looked and beheld a man among the Gentiles, who was separated
from the seed of my brethren by the many waters; and I beheld the spirit
of God, that it came down and wrought upon the man; and he went forth
upon the many waters, even unto the seed of my brethren, who were in
the promised land.71
The “promised land,” as the reader might expect, alludes to America.
Columbus’s discovery of America, accordingly, fulfills Nephi’s prophecy.72
The Constitution Myth
Generally, Latter-day Saints see the hand of Providence at work in the
founding of America. An important feature of the Mormon theology of
America is the conviction that the Constitution of the United States of
America was divinely inspired. This derives, in part, from the following
revelation given to the prophet Joseph Smith, in which Jesus Christ states:
“And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land,
by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and
redeemed the land by the shedding of blood.”73 That is not to say that God
revealed the Constitution, but that there is a dimension of sacred purpose
infused within it. One might characterize this influx of spiritual genius
within the Constitution as the presence of an invisible, divine signature
above the flourish of John Hancock. Jesus Christ, moreover, is believed to
teach that constitutions, generally, are important for the good governance
of a nation: “And that law of the land which is constitutional, supporting
that principle of freedom in maintaining rights and privileges, belongs to
all mankind, and is justifiable before me.”74 The freedoms enshrined by
that document—not the least of which is the freedom of religion—is seen
as part of a divine preparation for America’s destiny as the bearer of the
restored Gospel.
Without America, in fact, there would be no restored Gospel. According
to LDS teachings, God has chosen America for a glorious destiny. While
that destiny will not ultimately be forfeited, it can be frustrated. America’s
destiny can and is being subverted by godlessness. Only by reforming its
ways and by realigning its values and aspirations can America live up to its
potential and fulfill its mission in the divine scheme.

168 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
The Founding Fathers Myth
If there is something sacred about the U.S. Constitution, then might there
be something divine about the Declaration of Independence as well? If so,
then the hands that affixed their signatures to it—the Founding Fathers—
were also fulfilling God’s purpose. During the Fourth of July celebration in
1854, in the Mormon Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Elder Orson Hyde (d.
1878) delivered a patriotic speech, as would befit the occasion. A few years
earlier, Hyde had assumed the office of the president of the Quorum of the
Twelve Apostles on December 27, 1847. Elder Hyde extolled the men who
“had not only the moral courage to sign the Declaration of our nation’s
Independence, but hearts of iron and nerves of steel to defend it by force of
arms against the fearful odds arrayed against them.” They braved all dan-
ger for a noble cause, as they went on “to raise the standard of liberty, and
unfurl its banner to the world as a warning to oppressors, as the star of
hope to the oppressed.” Elder Hyde went on to say:
In those early and perilous times, our men were few, and our resources
limited. Poverty was among the most potent enemies we had to encoun-
ter; yet our arms were successful; and it may not be amiss to ask here, by
whose power victory so often perched on our banner? It was by the agency
of that same angel of God that appeared unto Joseph Smith, and revealed
to him the history of the early inhabitants of this country, whose mounds,
bones, and remains of towns, cities, and fortifications speak from the dust
in the ears of the living with the voice of undeniable truth. This same angel
presides over the destinies of America, and feels a lively interest in all our
doings. He was in the camp of Washington; and, by an invisible hand, led
on our fathers to conquest and victory; and all this to open and prepare the
way for the Church and kingdom of God to be established on the western
hemisphere, for the redemption of Israel and the salvation of the world.
Simply put, America’s destiny and the Mormon mission are intertwined.
There is an interesting—call it mystic—connection between the two. Wil-
ford Woodruff (1807–1898) was the fourth LDS president, succeeding his
predecessors, Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, and John Taylor. In 1877 (the
year he assumed leadership of the Church as the senior member of the
Quorum of the Twelve Apostles upon the death of President John Tay-
lor), according to Woodruff’s own journal entry for April 1898, George
Washington, John Wesley, Benjamin Franklin, and Christopher Colum-
bus appeared to Woodruff in the Saint George Temple (in Saint George,
Utah) and requested baptism for the dead (that is, for themselves), in
recompense for their role in helping prepare the way for the restoration
of the gospel.75 “Every one of those men that signed the Declaration of
Independence with General Washington called upon me as an apostle of

Mormon Myths and Visions of America 169
the Lord Jesus Christ in the temple at Saint George,” Woodruff recounts
in the following spoken memoir:
I am going to bear my testimony to this assembly, if I never do it again in
my life, that those men who laid the foundation of this American govern-
ment . . . were the best spirits the God of heaven could find on the face
of the earth. These were choice spirits, not wicked men. General Wash-
ington and all of the men that labored for the purpose were inspired of
the Lord. . . . Every one of those men that signed the Declaration of Inde-
pendence with General Washington called upon me as an apostle of the
Lord Jesus Christ in the temple at St. George two consecutive nights and
demanded at my hands that I should go forth and attend to the ordinances
of the House of God for them. . . . Brother McAllister baptized me for all
of those men, and then I told those brethren that it was their duty to go
into the temple and labor until they had got endowments for all of them.
They did it. Would these spirits have called on me, as an elder in Israel,
to perform this work if they had not been noble spirits before God. They
would not.76
This is clearly an instance of the “Mormonization” of America’s founding
fathers. So religiously significant is this topic that Brigham Young Univer-
sity Press, in a commemorative volume, published a collection of essays
exploring Mormon appreciation for the Constitution.77 Space does not per-
mit an analysis of other Mormon scriptures that are also interpreted as
references to America.78
The Theodemocracy Myth
Another Mormon myth of America regards the future government of Amer-
ica. On January 29, 1844, Joseph Smith and the Twelve Apostles decided
that the prophet would run for president. This decision followed Smith’s
unsuccessful mission to elicit assurances from the five presidential can-
didates, then running for U.S. president, that the constitutional rights of
all citizens, particularly the Mormons—who were the recurring targets of
persecution in a country that advocated, as a founding principle, freedom
of religion—were experiencing. For instance, on October 27, 1838, Mis-
souri Governor Lilburn Boggs (1796–1860) had issued Missouri Executive
Order 44, to expel or exterminate the Mormons from Missouri. This was in
response to the 1838 Mormon War and a subsequent assassination attempt
on the governor’s life (allegedly by Orin Porter Rockwell, a close associate
of Joseph Smith). It was not until 137 years after being signed that Boggs’s
extermination order was formally rescinded by Governor Christopher S.
Bond on June 25, 1976.

170 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Smith had asked each of the contenders—among who were John C. Cal-
houn, Henry Clay, and Martin Van Buren—to offer “an immediate, specific,
and candid reply to What will be your rule of action relative to us as a people,
should fortune favor your ascension to the chief magistry?”79 Their posi-
tion on this question was clearly unsatisfactory. Since none of the existing
candidates would safeguard Mormon interests, Smith decided to run for
president himself. It was during his campaign for president of the United
States that Smith first coined the term “theodemocracy” on April 15, 1844.
This neologism first appeared in a widely reprinted letter in a nineteenth-
century Latter-day Saint periodical, Times and Seasons (published monthly
or twice monthly) in Nauvoo, Illinois. America should (and, in the future,
would) become a “theodemocracy”:
As the “world is governed too much” and as there is not a nation or dynasty,
now occupying the earth, which acknowledges Almighty God as their law
giver, and as “crowns won by blood, by blood must be maintained,” I
go emphatically, virtuously, and humanely, for a THEODEMOCRACY,
where God and the people hold the power to conduct the affairs of men in
righteousness. And where liberty, free trade, and sailor’s rights, and the
protection of life and property shall be maintained inviolate, for the ben-
efit of ALL. To exalt mankind is nobly acting the part of a God; to degrade
them, is meanly doing the drudgery of the devil. Unitas, libertas, caritas esto
perpetua.80
What were some of the elements of this theodemocracy, which Joseph
Smith envisioned? On the thorny issue of slavery, Smith advocated free-
ing the slaves and reimbursing their masters through revenues generated
by the sale of public land. An ardent expansionist, Smith advocated the
annexation of Texas, opposed British claims to Oregon, and, if undertaken
peacefully, favored the annexation of both Canada and Mexico as well. On
economic reform, Smith called for the reestablishment of a national bank,
with branches in every state. To reduce parasitic bureaucracy, Smith urged
that Congress be reduced to half its size, and each Congressman’s pay be
reduced to two dollars a day, plus board: “That is more than a farmer gets,
and he lives honestly.” The president of the United States, Smith argued,
should be given the authority to suppress mobs and protect the constitu-
tional rights of all citizens (including the rights of the Latter-day Saints
themselves, who continued to face persecution). Smith urged that all con-
victs be freed, with the injunction to “go thy way and sin no more.”81
Instead of being elected president, Joseph Smith was assassinated on
June 27, 1844, by an anti-Mormon mob, which stormed a jailhouse in
Carthage, Illinois, in which Joseph Smith and his brother, Hyrum, were
incarcerated, murdering both. As historian Kenneth Winn rightly observes,
“The Mormons came to their millenarianism, in large part, through their

Mormon Myths and Visions of America 171
bleak republican assessment of the state of the nation.”82 In the fullness
of time, when the Church would fulfill its mission, theodemocracy would
become possible. Not only that, it would become part and parcel of a world
government.
The America as Zion Myth
In the LDS creed known as the Articles of Faith, Article 10 explicitly claims
that Zion will be built on North American soil: “We believe in the literal
gathering of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten Tribes; that Zion will be
built upon this [the American] continent; that Christ will reign personally
upon the earth; and that the earth will be renewed and receive its paradisia-
cal glory.”83 What is this “Zion” and what is its connection with America?
Mormon sources say that the prophet Enoch built a magnificent city
called Zion, a holy city, which was, together with Enoch himself, trans-
lated into heaven.84 This city is idealized in The Pearl of Great Price: “And
the Lord called his people Zion, because they were of one heart and one
mind, and dwelt in righteousness; and there was no poor among them,”85
thus providing an ideal type for Latter-day Saints. In the fullness of time,
Enoch foresaw that his Zion would descend to unite with another Zion,
to be established by a people drawn from the world over, which would be
known as the “New Jerusalem.”86 “Zion will extend, eventually, all over
this earth,” prophesied Brigham Young. “There will be no nook or corner
upon the earth but what will be Zion. It will all be Zion.”87 Notwithstand-
ing this later expansion of Zion, Joseph Smith himself made it clear: “The
city of Zion spoken of by David, in the one hundred and second Psalm, will
be built upon the land of America.”88
Latter-day Saints actually believe in two end-time “Zions”—one in
Israel (Jerusalem) and the other in America (Independence, Missouri).
This is based on a literal interpretation of such verses as Isaiah 24:23, who
foresaw a day “when the Lord of hosts shall reign in mount Zion, and in
Jerusalem, and before his ancients gloriously.” Rather than understand-
ing this dual reference as a common biblical parallelism, Joseph Smith,
according to a revelation, gave this interpretation: “Let them, therefore,
who are among the Gentiles flee unto Zion. And let them who be of Judah
flee unto Jerusalem, unto the mountains of the Lord’s house.”89 There is
thus a certain eschatological symmetry in Mormon texts between East
and West, expressed as a complementarity. While Jerusalem would be the
place for the regathering of the Jews, “Zion” in America would be for the
gathering of Gentile and Native Americans (as descendants of New World
Jews, the Lamanites).
In the New World, the New Zion is also the New Jerusalem. The Book of
Mormon, which echoes King James diction, speaks of a New Jerusalem,90 but

172 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
did not specify its location.91 That information came with a later revelation.
In 1831, Joseph Smith identified the town of Independence (now a suburb
of Kansas City, Missouri, more than 900 miles west of Kirtland, Ohio) as
the site of the new Zion:
This land, which is the land of Missouri, is the land which I have appointed
and consecrated for the gathering of the saints. Wherefore, this is the land
of promise, and the place for the city Zion. . . . Behold the place which is
now called Independence is the center place; and a spot for the temple is
lying westward, upon a lot which is not far from the courthouse. Where-
fore, it is wisdom that the land should be purchased by the saints . . . that
they may obtain it for an everlasting inheritance.92
Commenting on this pronouncement, which was a signal turning point
in Mormon eschatology, Richard Bushman, a contemporary Mormon histo-
rian, writes:
The sacred history of the past at that point flowed into the Mormon pres-
ent, soon after Joseph Smith received that vision. Oliver Cowdery trudged
through the snow to Missouri to find the place for the holy city, the New
Jerusalem, where Enoch and modern Mormons were to be united.93
Joseph Smith himself had drawn up his own plans for the eschatologi-
cal city and its Temple complex. These plans are still extant. On August 3,
1831, Joseph Smith, together with his associates in the priesthood, person-
ally dedicated the temple site.94 The Mormon community in Independence
grew to around 1,200 people.95 But, within two years, the saints had excited
the anger of their neighbors, and were driven out of Jackson County at
gunpoint. The Mormons were forced to abandon Zion, which has yet to
become the New Jerusalem. Today, the “temple lot” is owned by the Church
of Christ (formerly the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints), a Mormon splinter group.96 When Christ returns to establish the
Kingdom of God on Earth, the two capitals of the new empire will be “Jeru-
salem in the east and Zion in the west.”97
American Zion will be the scene of the return of “Enoch’s Zion.” “The
City of Zion spoken of by David in Psalms 102,” Joseph Smith proclaimed,
“will be built upon the Land of America.”98 In the words of one scholar,
Mormons added “to the disembodied outline of the millennial dream the
firm contours of America.”99 America was once Eden, is now Zion under
construction, and will become the New Jerusalem (American Zion) com-
pleted in the fullness of time. Sacred history will go full circle, in that
Mormon eschatology engages in “marrying millennium and primordium”100
by envisioning an end-time return to Paradise, in which the earth would be
“renewed and receive its paradisiacal glory.”101

Mormon Myths and Visions of America 173
The Mark of Cain Myth
As in other religious myths of America, the issue of race typically comes
up.102 It is a pivotal theme in the American religious experience. Let us trace
this development in Mormon history and doctrine.
While the Mormon message is universal in principle, in practice it was
not, for the simple reason that Blacks were barred from the priesthood. The
policy was first proclaimed publicly by Brigham Young in 1852. In 1852,
and in spite of Joseph Smith’s abolitionist leanings later in life, Brigham
Young legalized slavery in Utah. For the record, it should be noted that, for
years, Mormon scholars, most notably Lester Bush, argued that God had
never ordained the priesthood ban in the first place, and that the so-called
“Negro doctrine” lacks official sanction by revelation.103 It would, however,
take a direct revelation from God to eventually overturn Brigham Young’s
decree.104
What was the origin of this priesthood ban? Was it Brigham Young’s own
prejudice, or was there scriptural warrant for it? There are, in fact, several
Mormon texts that might have served as a pretext for the priesthood ban,
which was based on what may be termed the Mormon “curse of Cain myth,”
which is a further development of the Protestant “curse of Ham” myth.
In the Book of Mormon, dark skin was represented as a curse—the conse-
quence of unrighteousness. In 1 Nephi 12:23, the Lamanites (a term that
refers to Native Americans), because of their unbelief, “became a dark, and
loathsome, and a filthy people, full of idleness and all manner of abomina-
tions.” Unbelief and waywardness effected the curse. But why did the curse
take the form of color? The reason is given in 2 Nephi 5:21, which relates:
“And he had caused the cursing to come upon them, . . . wherefore, as they
were white, and exceedingly fair and delightsome, that they might not be
enticing unto my people the Lord God did cause a skin of blackness to come
upon them.” Verse 23 makes the Lamanites even more undesirable: “And
cursed shall be the seed of him that mixeth with their seed; for they shall be
cursed with the same cursing.” The curse, however, may be reversed.
As 2 Nephi 30:6 promises, when these lost Jews, the Lamanites, believe
in Christ, they shall become “a pure and delightsome people.” In the original
text of the Book of Mormon, the word “pure” had read “white.” Under LDS
President Spencer W. Kimball, the text was revised. “The Book of Mormon
made the white race morally superior to the red,” according to Brooke, “and
the Book of Abraham subordinated blacks.”105 Furthermore, in the Book
of Moses, black skin was associated with the progeny of Cain: “The seed
of Cain were black.”106 This racialized reading of the curse of Cain equates
divine disfavor with dark skin. Naturally, Cain’s descendants were heirs
to the curse, such that “a blackness came upon all the children of Canaan,
that they were despised among all people.”107 Said to be under the “curse of
Canaan,” black males were thus barred from the Mormon priesthood.

174 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
It was the Book of Abraham, however, that “stood as the scriptural basis
of Mormon racism”108 by excluding blacks from the priesthood, beginning
with Pharaoh (“Pharaoh being of that lineage”).109 Pharaoh and the Egyp-
tians, as descendants of Ham and Canaan, are represented in the Book of
Abraham as the progenitors of people of African descent. The same Mor-
mon scripture states that the heirs of the Canaanites and Noah’s son Ham
“preserved the curse in the land” and that Noah “cursed him [Ham] as
pertaining to the priesthood.”110
A dramatic reversal of the Mormon racial policy was proclaimed on
September 30, 1978, at the 148th Semiannual General Conference of The
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. As the result of a personal rev-
elation experienced on June 1, 2008—witnessed by high-ranking Church
authorities and memorialized in his letter of June 8, 2008—President Spen-
cer W. Kimball announced that “all worthy male members of the Church
may be ordained to the priesthood without regard for race or color.”111 Kim-
ball’s decision, said to have been actuated by his desire to erect a temple in
Sao Paulo, Brazil, assumed the status of revelation and was thus included in
Doctrine and Covenants, immediately following the text of Wilford Woodruff’s
anti-polygamy Manifesto of October 6, 1890 (canonized in Doctrine and Cov-
enants in 1908). A witness to that signal event, Elder Bruce R. McConkie,
described the Kimball revelation as “one which would reverse the whole
direction of the Church, procedurally and administratively.”112 Reflecting on
its tremendous impact, the current LDS president, Gordon B. Hinckley, who
assumed office in 1995 and serves as the Church’s living prophet, had this
to say about the revelation: “I need not tell you of the electric effect that was
felt both within the Church and without. There was much weeping, with
tears of gratitude. . . . Gone is every element of discrimination.”113
Ever since the “priesthood revelation,” Mormons have actively proselyted
Blacks. The symbolism of this sea change within the Mormon hierarchy was
seen in the elevation of a Black, Brazilian believer, Helvecio Martins, who
became the first Saint of African descent to become a General Authority.
From 1990–1995, Martins served in the Second Quorum of the Seventy.
According to some critics within the Church, however, the 1978 Declara-
tion did not address the theological background that had given rise to the
“older race theology” in the first place.114 Notwithstanding, it is significant
that current President Gordon Hinckley spoke on race relations before a
regional conference of the NAACP in 1998.115
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has racialized religious
beliefs about America by mythologizing Native Americans as transplanted
Whites, but who have since darkened, and Blacks as once cursed, but now
eligible for priesthood (males). Sacred Mormon scriptures idealize—that
is, sacralize—America, as well as criticize, racialize, and ultimately dera-
cialize it. In principle and in practice, Mormon myths of America have
evolved as a direct result of a progressive unfoldment of Mormon self-
understanding. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints began

Mormon Myths and Visions of America 175
with the revelation of the Book of Mormon and its ancillary texts. Later rev-
elations were needed to demythologize some of the racial aspects of these
same Mormon myths. Like the Nation of Islam, the racial doctrines in the
early history of the religion have softened over time, with increasing egali-
tarianism evolving Mormon doctrine as a reflection of America’s overall
social evolution into an increasingly diverse society with a corresponding
ideology of multiculturalism.
In fine, LDS belief holds that America was once Eden, is now Zion
under construction, and will become the New Jerusalem (American Zion)
completed in the fullness of time. Sacred history will go full circle, in that
LDS eschatology engages in “marrying millennium and primordium”116 by
envisioning an end-time return to Paradise, in which the earth would be
“renewed and receive its paradisiacal glory.”117 Promising deification (per-
fectionism) through restoration of true Christianity (primitivism), Joseph
Smith prepared his followers for the apocalypse (millenarianism), and reval-
orized America in the process. Viewing Mormonism three-dimensionally,
as a complex of primitivism, millenarianism, and perfectionism, however,
does not adequately account for its uniqueness.
For Latter-day Saints, there is the revelatory signature of Joseph Smith
himself. In The American Religion: The Emergence of the Post-Christian Nation,
non-Mormon author Harold Bloom (who is widely regarded as America’s
foremost literary critic), credits the Mormon prophet in stating that Joseph
“Smith was an authentic religious genius, unique in our national history.”118
Joseph Smith’s “genius” is to be seen in his rejection of the received tradi-
tional interpretation of Genesis:
Smith’s insight could have come only from a remarkably apt reading of
the Bible, and there I would locate the secret of his religious genius. . . .
So strong was this act of reading that it broke through all the orthodox-
ies—Protestant, Catholic, Judaic—and found its way back to elements
that Smith rightly intuited had been censored out of the stories of the
archaic Jewish religion.119
Of its myths of America, Mormon racial myths would prove to be the
most controversial.120 Yet the Mormon theology of America has undergone
significant transformations with respect to its original doctrines of polyg-
amy and priesthood. Gone is polygamy. Gone is the priesthood ban against
Black males. Mormonism thus reflects the social evolution of America, in
which professed racism has given way to professed egalitarianism. “It was
a religious version of the American dream,” as Ostling and Ostling have
observed, “Everyman presented with unlimited potential.”121 Clearly, the
LDS theology of America has contributed enormously to its evangelical
success. The gold plates of Mormon (who edited and abridged the plates
of Nephi)—nicknamed the “Gold Bible” by non-Mormons122—have thus
gilded America. America, the beautiful, becomes America the beatified.

176 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Chapter 7 Update: From American Zion to World Zion
We believe in the literal gathering of Israel and in the restoration of the
Ten Tribes; that Zion (the New Jerusalem) will be built upon the American
continent; that Christ will reign personally upon the earth; and, that the
earth will be renewed and receive its paradisiacal glory.
— Joseph Smith (1842)123
I believe in my Mormon faith and I endeavor to live by it. My faith is the faith
of my fathers . . . The founders proscribed the establishment of a state reli-
gion, but they did not countenance the elimination of religion from the public
square. We are a nation “Under God” and in God, we do indeed trust. We
should acknowledge the Creator as did the Founders—in ceremony and word.
— Mitt Romney (2007)124
Figure 7.2. Called “America’s Choir” by President Ronald Reagan during his 1981
inauguration, the Mormon Tabernacle Choir is musically accompanied by the
110-member Orchestra at Temple Square, and by the majestic Schoenstein Organ
(with 7667 pipes), at the 21,000-seat Conference Center of Temple Square in Salt
Lake City, Utah.
A Grammy- and Emmy-award-winning ensemble, this 360-member, all-volun-
teer choir is sponsored by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The
choir, completely self-funded, travels, performs and produces albums to support the
organization.
(Photo taken July 18, 2004. Public domain.)

Mormon Myths and Visions of America 177
In 2012, a Mitt Romney ran for president. Overnight, Mormonism became
mainstream.
Republican presidential candidate, Mitt Romney, former Massachusetts
Governor, was defeated by President Barack Obama in the U.S. presidential
election. Over the course of the campaign, the American public wanted to
know more about Mormonism. Voters were interested in that information,
whether or not it was relevant in making an informed choice. There was
renewed scholarly interest as well.
In 2012, Philip L. Barlow, who is the Arrington Chair of Mormon His-
tory and Culture at Utah State University, published a journal article that
can well serve as an update to this chapter. In “Chosen Land, Chosen Peo-
ple: Religious and American Exceptionalism among the Mormons,” author
Philip Barlow noted that “a controlling premise and motif of the Book of
Mormon” is that America is “populated by a chosen people for a singu-
lar destiny,” a place where “the United States Constitution” is popularly
viewed by Mormons “as an inspired document.”125
That said, there are some subtle distinctions that need to be made. First,
in the Mormon mind, “American exceptionalism” (“Chosen Land”) coex-
ists with “religious exceptionalism” (“Chosen People”). As to proportional
influence, religious exceptionalism would appear to predominate over
American exceptionalism. This is because the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints (LDS) is believed to be the restoration of the primitive
church. Since original Christianity was presumably brought back to life in
the 19th-century, when Joseph Smith founded the Church, many Latter-day
Saints, accordingly, proclaim their faith to their brethren by the phrase, “I
know the church is true.”126
So Mormons are a chosen people (“Latter Day Saints”) in a chosen land
(America). In the Mormon conception of American exceptionalism, America,
although a chosen land, can lose its special status (by becoming “unchosen”),
thereby forfeiting its destiny by having failed to live up to it. In any case, being
“chosen” is not a badge of superiority, but a test of mission. In other words,
Americans are “selected for a role,” not for being “spiritually superior.”127
In his campaign speeches, Mitt Romney affirmed his abiding faith in
American exceptionalism (with a hint of religious exceptionalism):
Tonight that American flag is still there on the moon. And I don’t doubt
for a second that Neil Armstrong’s spirit is still with us: that unique blend
of optimism, humility and the utter confidence that when the world needs
someone to do the really big stuff, you need an American.
That’s how I was brought up.128
A hint of religious exceptionalism can be inferred from the statement,
“That’s how I was brought up,” although interpretations may vary.
On November 12, 2014, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
drew the national media spotlight by publishing an article on its official

178 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
website, “Plural Marriage in Kirtland and Nauvoo.”129 With the “contribu-
tion of scholars to the historical content presented in this article,” the LDS
Church disclosed that “Joseph married many additional wives”—including
Smith’s youngest wife, “Helen Mar Kimball,” who was only 14 years old at
the time of the marriage (“several months before her 15th birthday”).130
Tucked away in a footnote is a further disclosure: “Careful estimates put the
number between 30 and 40.”131 It’s too soon to tell what impact, if any, this
revelation will have on the Mormon faithful.
Increasingly topical and newsworthy, the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints is distinctively American in origin and in eschatology,
since America is the New Zion to which Christ is destined to return in the
fulness of time. The Mormon emphasis on America as a chosen nation,
however, appears to be diminishing, in large part due to the Church’s
burgeoning demographics worldwide. Mormons now number 15,082,028
members worldwide, with 29,253 congregations and literature in 189
published languages.132 Sociologially, Mormonism, whether or not prop-
erly considered “Christian,” can now be seen as a world religion, as Jan
Shipps and other scholars have argued.133 Theologically, the Christian
character of the Mormon religion is zealously championed and defended,
by the Mormon faithful, as pristine Christianity now restored, for all to
see and experience.
Notes

1. The Doctrine and Covenants of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
(D&C) 101:80.

2. Joseph Smith, letter to N. C. Saxton, Kirtland, Ohio (January 4, 1833).
History of the Church 1:315. Mr. Saxton’s name is incorrectly given as “N. E.
Seaton.”

3. Newsroom (The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints), “2013
Statistical Report for 2014 April General Conference.” See http://www.
mormonnewsroom.org/article/2013-statistical-report-2014-april-general-
conference. (Accessed December 5, 2014.)

4. See “Top Ten LDS News Stories of 2007.” Deseret News.

5. See National Council of Churches, The Yearbook of American and Canadian
Churches (2008).

6. Article 6, The Articles of Faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

7. Article 10, The Articles of Faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

8. D&C 76:58 (emphasis added).

9. D&C 88:107 (emphasis added).

10. Jan Shipps, “The Reality of the Restoration and the Restoration Ideal in the
Mormon Tradition.” The American Quest for the Primitive Church. Ed. Richard
T. Hughes (Urbana/Chicago: University of Illinois Press, 1988): 181–195;
idem, “Difference and Otherness: Mormonism and the American Religious
Mainstream.” Minority Faiths and the American Protestant Mainstream. Ed.

Mormon Myths and Visions of America 179
Jonathan D. Sarna (Urbana/Chicago: University of Illinois Press, 1998):
81–109.

11. Grant Underwood. “Mormons and the Millennial World View.” Mormon
Identities in Transition. Ed. Douglas J. Davies (London: Cassell, 1996):
135–142; idem, The Millenarian World of Early Mormonism (Urbana/Chicago:
University of Illinois, 1993); idem, “Early Mormon Perceptions of Contem-
porary America: 1830–1846.” Brigham Young University Studies 26 (Summer
1986): 49–61.

12. John L. Brooke, The Refiner’s Fire: The Making of Mormon Cosmology, 1644–
1844 (New York: Cambridge University Press, 1994), 34–36.

13. James Talmage, A Study of the Articles of Faith: Being a Consideration of the
Principal Doctrines of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Salt Lake
City: Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, (1976), 204. Originally pub-
lished in 1890.

14. “Latter-day Saints.” The HarperCollins Dictionary of Religion. Ed. Jonathan Z.
Smith (San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 1995).

15. Joseph Smith, Jr., The Papers of Joseph Smith. Vol. 1, The Autobiographical and
Historical Writings. Ed. Dean C. Jessee (Salt Lake City: Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1989), 1: 6–7. Cited by Richard N. Ostling and
Joan K. Ostling, Mormon America: The Power and the Promise (San Francisco:
HarperSanFrancisco, 1999), 403.

16. James B. Allen, “The Significance of Joseph Smith’s ‘First Vision’ in Mor-
mon Thought.” Dialogue: A Journal of Mormon Thought 1.3 (Autumn 1966):
29–44 [29].

17. The HarperCollins Dictionary of Religion, 652.

18. Jan Shipps, Mormonism: The Story of A New Religious Tradition (Urbana/
Chicago: University of Illinois Press, 1985), 82–84.

19. Talmage, Study of the Articles of Faith, 204.

20. See D&C 132: 18–19.

21. See D&C 13.

22. See D&C 27.

23. Talmage, Study of the Articles of Faith, 204.

24. Joseph Fielding Smith, ed., Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith (Salt Lake
City: Deseret, 1993), 374.

25. Brooke, Refiner’s Fire, vii.

26. Ibid., xvi.

27. D&C 130:22.

28. “The King Follett Discourse.” See Stan Larson, “The King Follett Dis-
course: A Newly Amalgamated Text.” Brigham Young University Studies 18.2
(Winter 1978): 193–208.

29. Lorenzo Snow, The Teachings of Lorenzo Snow, Fifth President of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Ed. Clyde J. Williams (Salt Lake City: Book-
craft, 1984), 1.

30. Brooke, Refiner’s Fire, 203.

31. Ibid., 199.

32. D&C 132:17.

33. See Numbers 27:21; I Samuel 23:10–12; Ezra 2:63.

34. Book of Mormon, “Introduction.”

180 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America

35. Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History (Salt Lake City: Deseret,
1972), 70.

36. E. Douglas Clark, The Grand Design: America from Columbus to Zion (Salt Lake
City: Deseret, 1992). The present writer thanks the author for kindly send-
ing a copy of his book.

37. Richard L. Bushman, Joseph Smith and the Beginnings of Mormonism (Urbana:
University of Illinois Press, 1984), 139.

38. Ibid., 140.

39. William Hosking Oliver, Prophets and Millennialists: The Uses of Biblical Proph-
ecy in England from the 1790s to the 1840s (Auckland: Auckland University
Press, 1978), 238.

40. Brigham Young, Discourses of Brigham Young: Second President of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Ed. John A. Widtsoe (Salt Lake City, UT:
Deseret Book Co., 1954 [1925]), 157.

41. Brooke, Refiner’s Fire, 198–199; cf. 232.

42. Journal of Discourses, 10:235.

43. Bushman, Joseph Smith and the Beginnings of Mormonism, 133, 134.

44. Brooke, Refiner’s Fire, 198–199; cf. 232.

45. 2 Kings 17:6; 18:11

46. Ethan Smith, View of the Hebrews: Or, the Tribes of Israel in America (Poultney,
VT: Smith and Shute, 1823).

47. Grant Underwood, The Millenarian World of Early Mormonism (Urbana/Chi-
cago: University of Illinois, 1993), 66–67.

48. D&C 133:26f.

49. Cf. Judges 15:9.

50. Ether 3:1.

51. 1 Nephi 18:23.

52. 3 Nephi 20:22.

53. Ether 6:6.

54. Ether 1:2.

55. Ether 13:4.

56. 1 Nephi 18:23.

57. 1 Nephi 12:23.

58. 3 Nephi 20:22.

59. Ether 13:4.

60. Talmage, Study of the Articles of Faith, 289–290.

61. Ibid., 260.

62. Smith, Essentials in Church History, 53.

63. 1 Nephi 13:14.

64. Ether 7:27.

65. 3 Nephi 20:22.

66. 1 Nephi 13:15.

67. 3 Nephi 21:24.

68. D&C 32.

69. Smith, Essentials in Church History, 99.

70. Bushman, Joseph Smith and the Beginnings of Mormonism, 136.

71. 1 Nephi 13:12. See Arnold K. Garr, Christopher Columbus: A Latter-day Saint
Perspective (Provo, UT: Religious Studies Center, Brigham Young University,
1992).

Mormon Myths and Visions of America 181

72. See Louise G. Hanson, “Columbus, Christopher.” Encyclopedia of Mormonism
(New York: Macmillan, 1992), 294–296.

73. D&C 101:80.

74. D&C 98: 5–6.

75. Journal of Discourses, 19:230. Qtd. in Clark, The Grand Design: America from
Columbus to Zion, 129.

76. Wilford Woodruff, Conference Report (April 1898): 89–90. See Wilford
Woodruff, The Discourses of Wilford Woodruff. Ed. G. Homer Durham (Salt
Lake City: Bookcraft, 1946), 160–161. This passage qtd. by Ezra Taft Ben-
son, “God’s Hand in Our Nation’s History,” fireside address was given at
Brigham Young University on March 28, 1976.

77. Ray C. Williams, ed., “By the Hands of Wise Men”: Essays on the U.S. Constitu-
tion (Provo: Brigham Young University Press, 1979).

78. Some of the more notable of these include: 1 Nephi 2:20, 1 Nephi 13:15–
19, 2 Nephi 1:6–7, 2 Nephi 10:10–14, Ether 2:9–10, 12, and Ether 13:3.

79. Kenneth H. Winn, Exiles in a Land of Liberty: Mormons in America, 1830–1846.
Studies in Religion (Chapel Hill, NC: University of North Carolina Press,
1989), 198.

80. Joseph Smith, Times and Seasons 5.8 (April 15, 1844): 510.

81. Winn, Exiles in a Land of Liberty, 205.

82. Ibid., 199.

83. Article 10, The Articles of Faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.

84. Moses 7:19, 21. See also D&C 36:8, 42:36.

85. Moses 7:18.

86. Bushman, Joseph Smith and the Beginnings of Mormonism, 186 (citing Moses
6:35, 38; 7).

87. Journal of Discourses 9:138. Cited by Clark, The Grand Design: America from
Columbus to Zion, 215.

88. Joseph Smith, letter to N. C. Saxton, Kirtland, Ohio (January 4, 1833). His-
tory of the Church 1:315.

89. D&C 133:12–13. In Mormon apocalyptic premillennialism, Zion is to be
a place of refuge before the great Tribulation, a seven-year period prior to
Jesus’ second Coming. In popular evangelical thought today, this concept
of Zion is the functional equivalent of the Rapture.

90. Ether 13:4–8.

91. Underwood, Millenarian World, 31.

92. D&C 57:1–4.

93. Bushman, Joseph Smith and the Beginnings of Mormonism, 186–187.

94. Talmage, Study of the Articles of Faith, 353; 515–16.

95. Thomas G. Alexander, Things in Earth and Heaven: The Life and Times of Wilford
Woodruff, a Mormon Prophet (Salt Lake City: Signature Books, 1991), 26 and
346, n. 13.

96. Richard N. Ostling and Joan K. Ostling, Mormon America: The Power and the
Promise (San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 1999), xviii.

97. Talmage, Study of the Articles of Faith, 346.

98. Joseph Smith, letter to N. C. Saxton, Kirtland, Ohio (January 4, 1833). His-
tory of the Church 1:315; Underwood, Millenarian World, 68.

99. W. H. Oliver, Prophets and Millennialists: The Uses of Biblical Prophecy in England
from the 1790s to the 1840s (Auckland: Auckland University Press, 1978), 238.

182 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
100. Underwood, Millenarian World, 39.
101. Full statement of “Articles of Faith,” no. 10: “We believe in the literal
gathering of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten Tribes; that Zion (the
New Jerusalem) will be built upon the American continent; that Christ
will reign personally upon the earth; and, that the earth will be renewed
and receive its paradisiacal glory.” The original text reads as follows: “We
believe in the literal gathering of Israel and in the restoration of the Ten
Tribes. That Zion will be built upon this continent. That Christ will reign
personally upon the earth, and that the earth will be renewed and receive
its paradasaic glory.” Joseph Smith, “Truth will Prevail” [popularly known
as “The Wentworth Letter”], Times and Seasons 3.9 (Nauvoo, IL: March 1,
1842), 706–710. Republished as idem, Reprinted in Joseph Smith, “The
Articles of Faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,” The
Pearl of Great Price (Salt Lake City, UT: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, 1989), 61.
102. Craig R. Prentiss, “‘Loathsome unto Thy People’: The Latter-day Saints
and Racial Categorization.” Religion and the Creation of Race and Ethnicity: An
Introduction. Ed. Craig R. Prentiss (New York/London: New York University
Press, 2003), 124–139.
103. Lester E. Bush, Jr., “Mormonism’s Negro Doctrine: An Historical Over-
view.” Dialogue 8 (Spring 1973): 11–68.
104. Newell G. Bringhurst, Saints, Slaves and Blacks: The Changing Place of Black
People within Mormonism (Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1981); Chester
Lee Hawkins, “Selective Bibliography on African-Americans and Mormons,
1830–1990.” Dialogue 25 (Winter 1992): 113–31.
105. Brooke, Refiner’s Fire, 216.
106. Moses 7:8.
107. Moses 7:22.
108. Brooke, Refiner’s Fire, 211.
109. Abraham 1:27. See also 3:1–28, 4:1–31.
110. Abraham 1:21–27.
111. D&C, Official Declaration 2. See E. Dale Le Baron, “Mormonism in Black
Africa.” Mormon Identities in Transition. Ed. Douglas Davies (London and
New York: Cassell, 1996): 80–86 [83].
112. Le Baron, “Mormonism in Black Africa,” 83.
113. Ibid., 83.
114. Ostling and Ostling, Mormon America, 102–103.
115. Ibid., 106.
116. Underwood, Millenarian World, 39.
117. Pearl of Great Price (1989 ed.), 61
118. Harold Bloom, The American Religion: The Emergence of the Post-Christian
Nation (New York: Simon and Schuster, 1992), 82.
119. Ibid., 84.
120. Norman Douglas, “The Sons of Lehi and the Seed of Cain: Racial Myths
in Mormon Scripture and Their Relevance to the Pacific Islands.” Journal of
Religious History 8 (1974): 90–104.
121. Ostling and Ostling, Mormon America, xix.
122. Brooke, Refiner’s Fire, 156.

Mormon Myths and Visions of America 183
123. Joseph Smith, “The Articles of Faith” (1842), Article 10. See http://www.
mormon.org/beliefs/articles-of-faith.(Accessed December 5, 2014.)
124. Mitt Romney, “Faith in America,” speech delivered Thursday, December 6,
2007, at the George Bush Presidential Library in College Station, Texas. See
http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=16969460 (tran-
script) and https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hi3X8yPdlEE (video).
(Accessed December 5, 2014.)
125. Philip L. Barlow, “Chosen Land, Chosen People: Religious and American
Exceptionalism among the Mormons.” Review of Faith & International Affairs
10.2 (Summer 2012): 51–58 [51].
126. Ibid., 52.
127. Ibid., 55.
128. Mitt Romney, “Transcript: Mitt Romney’s Acceptance Speech,” National Public
Radio (August 30, 2012). See http://www.npr.org/2012/08/30/160357612/
transcript-mitt-romneys-acceptance-speech. (Accessed November 4, 2014.)
129. Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. “Plural Marriage in Kirtland
and Nauvoo.” See https://www.lds.org/topics/plural-marriage-in-kirtland-
and-nauvoo. (Accessed November 14, 2014.)
130. Ibid.
131. Ibid. (Note 24).
132. Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. “Facts and Statistics.” See
http://www.mormonnewsroom.org/facts-and-stats. (Accessed October
19, 2014.)
133. Jan Shipps, Mormonism: The Story of A New Religious Tradition (Urbana/Chi-
cago: University of Illinois Press, 1985).

Figure 8.1. “Ku Klux Klan members supporting Barry Goldwater’s campaign for the
presidential nomination at the Republican National Convention, San Francisco,
California, as an African American man pushes signs back.” Photo by Warren K.
Leffler, July 12, 1964.
(Public domain. Library of Congress. See http://www.loc.gov/pictures/
item/2003673964/. Accessed January 12, 2015.)

Chapter 8
Christian Identity Myths
and Visions of America
America will be delivered. God says: . . . “There is going to be a might[y] attack
from the air. There will be great Hail Stones. There will be storms and strong
winds will sweep the world.” . . . War is going to save America. Battling in the
streets of the cities is going to say [save] your civilization from mongrelization
and this battling is going to save you from being absorbed forever.
— Dr. Wesley A. Swift (1966)1
Christian Identity calls for a White homeland and forebodes a “Racial
Holy War.”
As an umbrella term, Christian Identity refers to a constellation of White
supremacist groups unified by theology of hate. Christian Identity sects
promote a gospel of racism in the name of Christ. Identity is not the only
religion of racial hate. According to Betty A. Dobratz, Professor of Sociology
at Iowa State University, three religious belief systems—Christian Identity,
World Church of the Creator (WCOTC), and Odinism—have played key
roles in the construction of White racial identity and in the maintenance of
White privilege.2 These White supremacist organizations have succeeded in
harnessing the power of the Internet. As such, they are primarily a virtual
community, with a larger-than-life Internet presence that might otherwise
belie the marginality of this extremist population. Of the three, Christian
Identity is the most influential.
The second most influential racist religion in America is the WCOTC
(now known, since 2003, as the Creativity Movement), which boldly pro-
claims: “CREATIVITY is a racial religion whose prime goal is the survival,
expansion and advancement of the White Race.”3 Founder Ben Klassen’s The
White Man’s Bible offers a “powerful Racial Religion.”4 Odinism, the third
major White supremacist religion, is a pagan belief in Norse mythology that
serves as an alternative spiritual basis for White solidarity. Like the Creativity
Movement, Odinism is anti-Christian. Of the three, Christian Identity sects

186 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
have the greatest presence on the Internet, as a 2001 study has found: “Of the
religious oriented groups, Christian Identity appears to be the most common
(73) with Creativity representing a small proportion of sites (7) and only one
(1) designated as explicitly Odinist.”5 White supremacy, in fact, has become a
White cyberculture, with Christian Identity as its principal “religion.”
What distinguishes Christian Identity groups from politically oriented
White supremacy groups is its success in using religion—that is, Christian-
ity—to legitimatize racialist views. Identity theology provides a unifying
ideology that effectively networks White supremacist groups. Christian
Identity is really “skin identity,” since the color of one’s skin seems to
be more critical than one’s religious identity. “Identity links biology and
theology,” remarks Stephen Shaw, “One’s virtue is found in one’s skin
color.”6 Besides linking genes with creed, Christian Identity furnishes
a cohesive ideology that serves to form a common bond among sundry
White supremacist groups, as Dobratz and Shanks note: “Identity pro-
vides religious unity for various racialist organizations and exposes people
with such religious orientations to the racialist aspects of the movement.”7
In fine, Christian Identity has become the “religion” of choice for the Ku
Klux Klan, Aryan Nations and local branches of Aryan Nations, White
Aryan Resistance, Southwest Aryan Separatists, and other White nation-
alist hate groups.
There are a number of enclaves within the Identity movement. They
promulgate their literature both online and in print, as well as in the air.
The “Church of True Israel,” for example, offers immediate access to the
“sermons” of “Dr. Wesley A. Swift,” a major Identity ideologue.8 In the
print world, The Jubilee, a bimonthly Identity-affiliated newspaper published
in Midpines, California, and edited by Paul Hall, is the nation’s leading
White supremacist newspaper. The Jubilee sponsors a syndicated radio pro-
gram entitled, NewsLight. All of these groups share a common belief system,
with minor exceptions. Christian Identity websites function primarily as
dissemination venues for racialist literature.
Another Christian Identity group, “Kingdom Identity Ministries,”9
operates out of Harrison, Arkansas. Of all the Christian Identity sects, King-
dom Identity presents itself most fully as a religion, replete with its own
“Doctrinal Statement” that adduces its proof texts from various passages
in the Bible.10 Kingdom Identity is significant in that it is more focused
and organized in promoting its “religious” views than the Church of Jesus
Christ Christian/Aryan Nations. Kingdom Identity claims to promulgate
its message by these means: “We proclaim the Gospel of the Kingdom
(government according to God’s Law) through books, tracts, tapes, vid-
eos, the American Institute of Theology Bible Correspondence Course, our
international Herald of Truth Radio Broadcasts, a Prison Ministry, Biblical
Counseling, Seminars, and other means.”11 The “Herald of Truth” programs
are short wave broadcasts emanating from three power stations—located in

Christian Identity Myths and Visions of America 187
Monticello, Maine, and Nashville and Manchester, Tennessee—as well as by
satellite. Past broadcasts are archived on the internet.12
Briefly, the history of Christian Identity may be summed up as follows: In
1946, Wesley Swift (d. 1970) established the first Christian Identity church
in Lancaster, California. Wesley’s “church” was first called the “Anglo Saxon
Christian Congregation,” and then, soon after, the “Church of Jesus Christ
Christian,” reflecting his view that Jesus was not a Jew. Ten years later, in
1956, Swift ordained William Potter Gale, who systematized Swift’s teach-
ings into a coherent ideology when, in 1963, Gale published the booklet,
The Faith of Our Fathers.13 In his booklet, Racial and National Identity: A Sermon,
Gale performs a racialized exegesis of Genesis, drawing this moral:
God’s first commandment to Adam and Eve was for them NOT TO MON-
GRELIZE THE HOLY SEED of God’s family here on earth. This was the
meaning of the command He gave them, not to partake of the fruit of the
tree of KNOWLEDGE of good and evil, and this is exactly what He meant.
The only tree with KNOWLEDGE is a family or racial tree.14
Here, the politics of identity have a scriptural foundation, as strained as the
interpretation may be.
To somewhat oversimplify, Identity succession runs from Wesley Swift
(1913–1970) through William Potter Gale (1917–1988) to Richard But-
ler (1938–2004). “Dr.” Richard Girnt Butler was one of Swift’s foremost
followers. In 1979, Butler established the “Church of Jesus Christ Chris-
tian/Aryan Nations”15 on a 20-acre compound on the shores of Hayden
Lake, deep in the forests of Northern Idaho. Butler formed the Aryan
Nations as the political wing of the Church of Jesus Christ Christian, as
a secular, rather than a religious, organization. (The Aryan Nations now
maintains a separate website that opens with the slogan, “Stop the hate—
segregate!”16) In 2000, Butler was forced to relinquish the Aryan Nations
compound after he was bankrupted by a $6.3 million civil judgment in a
lawsuit brought by the Southern Poverty Law Center on behalf of Victoria
Keenan and her son.17 After Butler’s death, Christian Identity groups have
further fragmented.
Shifting from history to ideology, Christian Identity is the polar oppo-
site of racial universalism and egalitarianism. Not surprisingly, at the heart
of Identity is the doctrine of White supremacy: i.e., the doctrine that the
White race is descended from Adam, Jews are the spawn of Satan, and other
non-White races are the progeny of pre-Adamic, subhuman “mud peoples,”
according to Identity theology. Christian Identity believes that Whites, not
Jews, are God’s chosen people:
WE BELIEVE the White, Anglo-Saxon, Germanic and kindred people to
be God’s true, literal Children of Israel. Only this race fulfills every detail

188 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
of Biblical Prophecy and World History concerning Israel and continues in
these latter days to be heirs and possessors of the Covenants, Prophecies,
Promises and Blessings YHVH God made to Israel. This chosen seedline
making up the “Christian Nations” (Gen. 35:11; Isa. 62:2; Acts 11:26)
of the earth stands far superior to all other peoples in their call as God’s
servant race (Isa. 41:8, 44:21; Luke 1:54).18
Based on this information alone, Identity’s “religious” visions of Amer-
ica are clearly racial myths of America. These myths include the Lost Tribes
Myth, the Two-Seed Myth, the Mud Races Myth, the White Homeland Myth,
and the Racial Holy War Myth. Identity’s religious myths of America, there-
fore, have played a key role in “sanctioning racism and sanctifying it with an
external religious authority.”19
The Two-Seed Myth
To provide scriptural warrant for its beliefs, Christian Identity engages in
a racialized interpretation of the Bible. This is particularly evident in the
Two-Seed Myth and the Mud Races Myth. These complementary myths
are remythologized exegeses of the biblical account of the origin of man
and his races. Craig Prentiss rightly argues that “the Christian Identity
movement . . . filter[s] their biblical exegesis through the prism of racial
imaginations shaped by American culture.”20 Through this prism, the col-
ors of the racial spectrum are clearly delineated and differentiated. These
myths, moreover, are two sides of the same ideological coin: both combine
to show the inherent inferiority of non-White races.21 To accomplish this,
Christian Identity has formulated a doctrine of polygenesis, which means
“many origins.” There are three tines to this ideological trident: (1) the
White race is the offspring of Adam; (2) the Jewish “race” is the spawn of
Satan; and (3) the other races are sprung from subhuman ancestors. Iden-
tity’s Two-Seed Myth, or “Serpent Seed” myth, simply put, makes Whites
the Seed of Adam and Jews the “Seed of Satan,” because Eve mated with
Satan in the Garden of Eden. One of the most visible Christian Identity
websites, Kingdom Identity Ministries, formulates its version of the Two-
Seed Theory in its “Kingdom Identity Ministries Doctrinal Statement of
Beliefs,” as follows:
WE BELIEVE in an existing being known as the Devil or Satan and called
the Serpent (Gen. 3:1; Rev. 12:9), who has a literal “seed” or posterity in the
earth (Gen. 3:15) commonly called Jews today (Rev. 2:9; 3:9; Isa. 65:15).
These children of Satan (John 8:44-47; Matt. 13:38; John 8:23) through Cain
(I John 2:22, 4:3) who have throughout history always been a curse to true
Israel, the Children of God, because of a natural enmity between the two

Christian Identity Myths and Visions of America 189
races (Gen. 3:15), because they do the works of their father the Devil (John
8:38-44), and because they please not God, and are contrary to all men (I
Thes. 2:14-15), though they often pose as ministers of righteousness (II Cor.
11:13-15). The ultimate end of this evil race whose hands bear the blood of
our Savior (Matt. 27:25) and all the righteous slain upon the earth (Matt.
23:35), is Divine judgment (Matt. 13:38-42, 15:13; Zech. 14:21).22
As part of a subtler Identity rhetoric, note that this creedal statement
does not explicitly state that the serpent, Satan, seduced Eve, thus spawn-
ing the Jews. But Genesis 3:15 is referenced. The text reads: “And I will
put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her
seed; it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel.”23 One can
see how the two-seed line theory developed: there is Satan’s “seed” and
then there is Eve’s “seed,” which is really Adam’s seed under a patriar-
chal reading. From Adam’s seed the Whites descended, and from Satan’s
seed came the Jews, according to this perversely racialized reading of Gen-
esis 3:15. How does this exegesis reach such an unexpected result? The
answer is simple: It is Identity’s racial lens that affords this idiosyncratic
understanding of an otherwise universal religious text. Here is a prime
example of this racialized exegesis: Wesley Swift, a former California Ku
Klux Klan organizer and Methodist minister’s son, offers this commen-
tary on Genesis 3:15:
Rather, using only the Scriptures, I will show you that the Fall was brought
on by an unholy sexual union between Satan and Eve. In Gen. 3:1, we read
of a “serpent” appearing to Eve in the Garden of Eden. It’s important
to realize that the “serpent” spoken of here was not a literal snake, but
rather Satan in human form. . . . Gen. 3:15 then tells us that two literal,
biological seedlines are to come forth from Eve. They are the seedline of
Satan and the seedline of the woman (through Adam). Verse 15 also tells
us that the two seedlines would be in direct conflict with one another and
in the end the Satantic seed will be crushed. . . . Finally, Eve was to have
two literal seedlines come forth from her womb. One being the “serpents”
(Satan in human form) and the other being hers through Adam. . . . But
Jesus clearly traces the bloodline of the righteous only through the white
Adamic race. In Matt. 23:33, Jesus calls the Jews “serpents.” This is an
obvious reference to their literal, biological father as spoken of in Gen.
chapter three.24
While no less an authority than Michael Barkun (and those who cite
him, like Cowan) holds the doctrine of Jews as the spawn of Satan to be a
core Identity belief,25 not all Christian Identity believers hold to this the-
ory, but rather adhere to a “one-seed” theory, which is simply that Whites
are the progeny of Adam. Thus, while Identity theology still maintains

190 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
that Jews are of another (non-White) seed line, the Two-Seed theory is
not a universally held tenet. The alternative doctrine is that Jews are
descended from Esau (Edom), and that they, along with Blacks and other
races, are “strangers in the land” of America.26 It is possible that soften-
ing of the two-seed theory into a one-seed doctrine is simply a case of
what sociologists call “stigma transformation”27 as a means of impression
management or “deviance disavowal” to avoid the social stigma of being
known as an anti-semite.
The Mud Races Myth
In Identity belief, the White race is the “chosen” race, endowed with spirit,
as well as body and soul. This “spirit” is what gives the White man his
superior intellectual endowments, according to Identity doctrine, to wit:
“Adamic man [the White race] is made trichotomous, that is, not only of
body and soul, but having an implanted spirit (Gen. 2:7; I Thes. 5:23; Heb.
4:12) giving him a higher form of consciousness and distinguishing him
from all the other races of the earth (Deut. 7:6, 10:15; Amos 3:2).”28 This
is obviously a narrow, racialized reading of scripture—an interpretational
framing of race theory. It is an unapologetic attempt to legitimate White
supremacy through reference to the Bible, as though it was deciphered
cipher—a secret code that Christian Identity has now made clear.
By this logic, if the White race is superior, it follows that “race-mixing”
is forbidden, as it dilutes and pollutes it: “Race-mixing is an abomination in
the sight of Almighty God, a Satanic attempt meant to destroy the chosen
seedline, and is strictly forbidden by His commandments.”29 Note the abun-
dant citations to scripture here, attempting to give biblical warrant to these
racialist doctrines. White supremacists, generally, have a great fear and
loathing of what they call “mongrelizing” (i.e., reproducing interracially).
Besides forbidding marriage and physical intercourse with non-Whites,
social intercourse is discouraged as well. As one may see, the ultimate
White separatism is the call for a White homeland.
It is one thing to foster racial pride. Yet fostering racial pride seems to
go hand-in-hand with fomenting racial hate. It is a commonplace, on the
Internet, to see consistent references to Christian Identity groups call-
ing non-White (and non-Jewish) races as “mud peoples” or “mud races.”
Obviously, “mud races” is a term of deprecation. Nothing more pejora-
tive, and offensive, can scarcely be imagined. The term “mud peoples”
evidently was coined by avowed atheist Ben Klassen, founder of the World
Church of the Creator and author of two WCOTC scriptures, Nature’s
Eternal Religion and The White Man’s Bible. The term then migrated to Iden-
tity enclaves, becoming part and parcel of the popular parlance of White
supremacists generally.

Christian Identity Myths and Visions of America 191
The Lost Tribes Myth
Christian Identity, and its theology-rooted racialism, has an ideological
pedigree. A twentieth-century variation of British Israelism (also known as
Anglo-Israelism), Identity holds that Whites are the true Jews because they
are descendants of the ten lost tribes of Israel. As British Israelism was an
ideology for an empire, Christian Identity became an ideology for a race.
British-Israelism began with John Wilson (d. 1871), with his book, Lec-
tures on Our Israelitish Origin (1840), in which he argued that the ten lost
tribes of Israel, over time, had migrated through Europe into Great Britain.
But the classic tract of British-Israelism is Edward Hine’s Identity of the Ten
Lost Tribes of Israel with the Anglo-Celto-Saxons, which was a best seller in its
day (having sold 250,000 copies!) and is still reprinted in Identity circles
today. Beyond what Wilson had claimed, Hine (1825–1891) said that Brit-
ain, “the Island Nation,” was itself the true home of the lost tribes of Israel.
For the British, this idea had tremendous appeal. In 1884, Hine sailed to the
United States, where he spread his ideas over the fertile soil of ethnocentric
American exceptionalism during the course of his four-year visit.30 Stock
pseudolinguist proofs are nearly universal in such tracts; for instance, when
contracting the two words, “Isaac’s sons,” one comes up with the word,
“Saxons.”31 Wesley Swift adapted this doctrine to America, and naturally
it spread to other Christian Identity sects. As a prime example of how this
doctrine is formulated and given scriptural warrant, the Kingdom Identity
“Doctrinal Statement of Beliefs” states, in part:
WE BELIEVE that the United States of America fulfills the prophesied
(II Sam. 7:10; Isa. 11:12; Ezek. 36:24) place where Christians from all the
tribes of Israel would be regathered. It is here in this blessed land (Deut.
15.6, 28:11, 33:13–17) that God made a small one a strong nation (Isa.
60:22), feeding His people with knowledge and understanding through
Christian pastors (Jer. 3:14–15) who have carried the light of truth and
blessings unto the nations of the earth (Isa. 49:6, 2:2–3; Gen. 12:3). North
America is the wilderness (Hosea 2:14) to which God brought the dis-
persed seed of israel, the land between two seas (Zech. 9:10), surveyed
and divided by rivers (Isa. 18:1–2,7), where springs of water and streams
break out and the desert blossoms as the rose (Isa. 35:1,6–7).32
In other words, America will be divinely established as a Christian repub-
lic. Note here how the Bible is invoked for everything Aryan. And so it is that
Christian Identity is a species of the broader Anglo-Israelite Myth, which
popularized the idea that the White race in America (rather than the British
Isles) was descended from the lost tribes of ancient Israel. As one Christian
Identity tract proclaims, America is the true Israel: “Israel’s new name Amer-
ica, the only founded Christian Nation,” is the “great Christian Kingdom.”33

192 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
The White Homeland Myth
In the previous section, one sees how America has been accorded a spe-
cial destiny. Identity theology provides a political eschatology that holds
out the hope and promise of an Aryan homeland sometime in the future.
That is to say, not only will America be the site of God’s kingdom on
earth, America is also destined to become a White homeland. Consistent
with other aspects of his racialist ideology, the idea of a White homeland
was promulgated by Richard Butler. In brief, here is Richard Butler’s
story.
In 1968, the Lockheed Aircraft Company hired Richard Butler as a senior
marketing engineer. His job was to help set up assembly lines to build the
l-1011 jumbo jet. During this time, Butler took flying lessons and got a pri-
vate pilot’s license. Then he began making trips to the Pacific Northwest.
Captivated by the beauty and grandeur of that country, Butler dreamed of
establishing an Aryan homeland there.34 As the co-inventor of a rapid repair
system for the tubeless tire, Butler was able to retire early in life, at age 55.
It was then that he moved to Hayden Lake in 1974. There he purchased an
old farmhouse on a 20-acre parcel of land, where he posted a sign warn-
ing, “Whites Only.” The compound was patrolled by German shepherds.
In 1977, Butler established the Church of Jesus Christ Christian, and then
the political wing, the Aryan Nations, in 1979.35 This foothold in the Pacific
Northwest was the first step forward in realizing Christian Identity’s dream
of a White homeland.
Ordained a “Christian” minister after his correspondence course from
the American Institute of Theology in Arkansas, “Pastor” Butler, from
his Hayden Lake compound, openly advocated establishing a Whites-
only “homeland” in the Pacific Northwest. Butler called his vision the
“Ten Percent Solution.” The Pacific Northwest would be a Whites-only,
exclusively heterosexual enclave within the borders of five states—Wash-
ington, Oregon, Idaho, Montana, and Wyoming. Later, the Aryan Nations
would call this plan the “Northwest Territorial Imperative” (or simply
“Northwest Imperative”). If this vision was ever to be realized—and
the Pacific Northwest become a White bastion—where would the non-
Whites go?
The formation of a White homeland would require the expulsion, or
“repatriation,” of all non-Whites. In 1984, David Duke, who established
the National Association for the Advancement of White People (NAAWP)
in 1980 and later founded the National Association for European Ameri-
can Rights in January 2000, proposed specific regions of the United States
where different races would be relocated. These proposals were originally
published in the magazine, Instauration, and later reprinted in the December
1984 NAAWP News. Duke’s proposal would redraw the map of the United
States, roughly as follows:

Christian Identity Myths and Visions of America 193
Blacks could live in a New Africa made up of parts of Georgia, Ala-
bama, and Mississippi; Jews would dwell in West Israel, comprised of
Long Island and Manhattan; the rest of the New York metropolitan area
and southern Connecticut would be home to various “unassimilable
minorities,” including Puerto Ricans, southern Italians, Greeks, and
immigrants from the southern Mediterranean littoral; Mexicans would
get the Southwest, except for a slice of territory called Navahona, which
would be reserved for American Indians; the Hawaiian Islands would
be renamed East Mongolia and be set aside for Asians; Dade County,
Florida would be the New Cuba. Anyone straying across their borders
would be shot on sight.36
Currently, the most popular advocate of a White homeland or “Eth-
nostate” is Wilmot Robertson,37 a “racially awake” activist fighting for a
“territorial initiative.” The role of Christian Identity in all of this is to pro-
vide religious sanction for what are essentially political aspirations.
Richard Butler’s Hayden Lake compound was the crown jewel of the Aryan
movement. It was the first concrete realization of the dream of a White home-
land. On July 1, 1998, three of Butler’s security guards allegedly assaulted
seasonal berry picker Victoria Keenan and her son Jason. Dees argued that
Butler owed the Keenans damages for the terror they suffered.38 A lawsuit
brought by Morris Dees and the Southern Poverty Law Center in 2000
against the Aryan Nations resulted in a $6.3 million civil judgment against
him.39 The case was captioned, Keenan v. Aryan Nations, No. CV-99-441 (Idaho
2000).40 Enforcement of that judgment forced the sale of the Hayden Lake
compound. The Keenans purchased the property at a U.S. Bankruptcy Court
sale, and later resold it to a multimillionaire. The Aryan dream was shattered.
But the Christian Identity myths of America live on.
The Racial Holy War Myth
The Christian Identity vision of the future is a transparent revelation of
what the world would be like today—if only Identity had the power to
enforce its ideology. In other words, the time of the end is where Iden-
tity aspirations would be fully realized and come to full fruition. There
are two sides to Identity’s vision of the end, as with apocalyptic scenarios
in general, as Kathleen Stewart points out: “Apocalypticism and millen-
nialism are the dark and light sides of a historical sensibility transfixed
by the possibility of imminent catastrophe, cosmic redemption, spiritual
transformation, and a new world order.”41 In this double vision of the end
of time, Christian Identity envisions a racial apocalypse followed by a mil-
lennium in which the White race, led by Christ, will rule the earth. In
the Identity apocalypse, Christ will take revenge on the Jews, who will

194 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
be annihilated first: “The ultimate end of this evil race [the Jews] whose
hands bear the blood of our Savior (Matt. 27:25) and all the righteous slain
upon the earth (Matt. 23:35), is Divine judgment (Matt. 13:38-42, 15:13;
Zech. 14:21).”42 In a further elaboration on the American apocalypse, Iden-
tity further prophesies that Christ will return to bring judgment on the
other non-White races as well:
WE BELIEVE the ultimate destiny of all history will be the establishment
of the Kingdom of God upon this earth (Psalm 37:9, 11, 22; Isa. 11:9;
Matt. 5:5, 6:10; Rev. 21:2–3) with Yahshua our Messiah (Jesus Christ)
reigning as King of kings over the house of Jacob forever, of this kingdom
and dominion there shall be no end (Luke 1:32–33; Dan. 2:44, 7:14; Zech.
14:9). When our Savior returns to restore righteous government on the
earth, there will be a day of reckoning when the kingdoms of this world
become His (Rev. 11:15; Isa. 9:6-7) and all evil shall be destroyed (Isa.
13:9; Mal. 4:3; Matt. 13:30, 41–42; II Thes. 2:8).43
Here, “all evil shall be destroyed” can easily be understood to mean
the non-White races. In the Kingdom Identity statement, Christ will mete
out punishment. However, the WCOTC/Creativity apocalyptic scenario
involves what may be characterized as an eschatological vigilantism, in
which Whites will wage a “Racial Holy War” against Jews and Blacks, not
to mention other races.
The term “Racial Holy War” was coined by the WCOTC. The WCOTC
coined the phrase “RaHoWa” as a battle cry for “Racial Holy War,” and it
serves as an official greeting as well. The politics of digitality allows for this
battle cry to echo on the Internet with impressive ubiquity. RaHoWa seeks
the overthrow of ZOG (Zionist Occupation Government), which is part
of the Christian Identity myth of a Zionist plot to destroy the White race
through miscegenation.
The WCOTC/Creativity Movement has produced the Little White Book,
which serves as a manifesto or bible. For the unsympathetic, this book is
hard to stomach. Consider, for instance, how a massacre is heralded as a
milestone in White history: “One hundred years ago, on December 29,
1890, at the battle of Wounded Knee Creek, South Dakota, the White Race
finally and absolutely triumphed in America. Let us honor and celebrate
this glorious day—THE DAY OF TRIUMPH OF WHITE AMERICA—every
year.”44 If the Battle of Wounded Knee is glorified as an exemplar in the
White supremacist mind, one can well imagine what RaHoWa would look
like, if it was ever to be waged. The Little White Book ends with these words,
on page 33: “A RACIAL HOLY WAR under the victorious flag of the one and
only, true and revolutionary White Racial Religion—CREATIVITY—is the
ONLY SALVATION for the White Race.”45

Christian Identity Myths and Visions of America 195
Presumably, these are the words of WCOTC founder, Ben Klassen. While
America is not mentioned here (presumably because RaHoWa would entail
a global conflagration), this is, by far, potentially the most dangerous ide-
ology we have encountered so far—the most virulent religious myth of
America yet. (For many readers, the next chapter will prove equally dis-
turbing.) Consider the case of Gabriel Carafa, a leader in the World Church
of the Creator—now known as the Creativity Movement—and a skinhead
group called “the Hated.” On May 5, 2006, Carafa pleaded guilty in federal
court in Camden, New Jersey, to selling 11 stolen guns to an informant.
The Philadelphia Inquirer account reports the following exchange between
the judge and Mr. Carafa:
His body is covered in white-supremacist tattoos, including one on his
forehead that reads “Rahowa,” which is short for “racial holy war.” The
term is a battle cry for the Creativity Movement, whose leader, Matthew
Hale, was sentenced last year to 40 years in prison for plotting to kill a
Chicago federal judge.
U.S. District Judge Robert B. Kugler asked Carafa yesterday whether he
was a member of the Hated. Carafa said he was.
“Is that what you have on your forehead?” Kugler asked.
“Yes, sir.”46
That a young man would tattoo his body in hate slogans vividly illus-
trates the extreme mentality of some White supremacists. And this hate
ideology is exported as well. One fairly recent example of this is when the
White Crusaders of the RaHoWa (a U.S.-based hate group) “set up a local
website which lists a contact address as a suburban Adelaide post office
box and an Australian business number.”47 While the Creativity Movement
presents itself as a religion, it is, as previously mentioned, atheist and anti-
Christian. Some might say the same thing about “Christian Identity”—that,
in practice, it is antithetical to Christianity as well.
What is the role of religion in White nationalist ideology? Specifically,
what is the role of Christianity in Christian Identity? One of the scholars
who has addressed this question was Professor Betty Dobratz. After a dis-
ciplined inquiry, Dobratz concludes that the answer itself remains elusive,
inconclusive: “The extent of the centrality of ‘Identity’ beliefs to this move-
ment needs to be further examined in order to understand the unity and
dissent within the movement and the development of collective conscious-
ness.”48 The other two of the three major forms of religious belief among
White supremacists—the Creativity Movement and Odinism—are openly
critical of Christianity. White supremacists, to the extent that some of them
profess a religious belief, will never agree on matters of religion. Religion is
simply a means to a racialist end.

196 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Consider “Pastor” Bertrand L. Comparet. A graduate of Stanford Uni-
versity, Comparet was admitted to the California Bar in 1926, and so was a
lawyer by profession. Christian Identity groups revere “Pastor” Comparet as
a great biblical scholar. In his sermon, “Man and Beast,” Comparet uses bib-
lical text as a pretext to justify White racialism: “Some races God classifies
as animals. Their nations are symbolized as beasts in numerous prophecies.”49
In the same vein, in his sermon, “The Children of the Beast,” Wesley Swift
invokes a putative verse from the epistle of Jude, to wit: “I have separated
and segregated you from all the people of the earth.”50 There is no such
verse in Jude. But even if there were, the interpretive modality is still the
same: drawing an equivalence between the word “beasts” in scripture and
“pre-Adamic races.” Many similar examples can be adduced. But the point
remains the same.
Although the present writer cannot prove this, it seems that the animat-
ing vision of RaHoWa can be traced back to Wesley Swift himself, who, in
1966 wrote:
America will be delivered. God says: . . .”There is going to be a might[y]
attack from the air. There will be great Hail Stones. There will be storms
and strong winds will sweep the world. . . . War is going to save America.
Battling in the streets of the cities is going to say [save] your civilization
from mongrelization and this battling is going to save you from being
absorbed forever. You say: . . . Oh, Dr. Swift, don’t talk that way, they
may find a way to silence us. Well, one thing they cannot stop and that is
“Thus saith the Lord.” With all the power they think they have in reserve,
they can’t stop that.51
Here, in saying that “War is going to save America” and then directly
connecting this “battling in the streets of the cities” with the goal of saving
“civilization from mongrelization,” the elements of a racial holy war are
present. This is no swords-into-plowshares vision of peace. It is an apoca-
lyptic scenario with an idealized apartheid as its outcome. Therefore, it is
not just the Creativity Movement that envisions a racial conflagration, but
the great ideologue of Christian Identity itself, Wesley Swift.
It seems patent enough that the “missionary” outreach of Chris-
tian Identity is to recruit others for furthering a racial agenda. Identity
therefore has only the trappings of Christianity. If mainstream Christian-
ity’s mission, generally, is to save sinners, then one may ask if Identity
adherents have the same goal in mind as the established churches. The
answer appears to be no. It is clear that Christian Identity, as well as simi-
lar supremacist enclaves, uses its “Christian” identity for fundamentally
un-Christian and unholy purposes—ethnoviolence in the name of Christ.
This ethnoviolence, if seriously prosecuted, can only lead to blood in the
streets of America cities, where everyone’s skin color will be tinged with
the crimson of bloodshed.

Christian Identity Myths and Visions of America 197
Figure 8.2. Theodore Bilbo was an member of the Ku Klux Klan while serving as
U.S. Senator (1935–1947) and Mississippi governor (1916–20, 1928–32). In January
1938, he stridently opposed an anti-lynching bill, warning of racial violence:
“If you succeed in the passage of this bill, you will open the floodgates of hell in the
South. Raping, mobbing, lynching, race riots, and crime will be increased a thousand-
fold; and upon your garments and the garments of those who are responsible for the
passage of the measure will be the blood of the raped and outraged daughters of Dixie,
as well as the blood of the perpetrators of these crimes that the red-blooded Anglo-Saxon
white Southern men will not tolerate.” (Cong. Rec., 75, 3 Sess., 893, 873.)
(Public domain. Library of Congress. See http://www.loc.gov/pictures/item/
hec2009006011/. Accessed January 12, 2015.)

198 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Chapter 8 Update: “Christian Identity”: Label or Libel?
Note how Identity is demonized by use of the phrase “diabolical mix-
ture.” Note the false claim that a church that believes the Identity message
necessarily teaches that: (1) Anglo-Saxons are Jews, (2) Jews are the
descendants of Satan, and (3) Blacks and other minorities are inferior
“mud people.” . . . If this is the new definition of Identity, then I can truth-
fully state (as can most Christians) that I am not Identity and that I do
not pastor an Identity church . . . Again, my sermons, radio broadcasts,
and writings of the past fifteen years have been and are available to the
public, and I defy anyone to show where I teach that Jews and people of
color are subhuman and are children of Satan, or that there is to be an
apocalyptic battle.
— Pastor Peter J. Peters (2001)52
“Identity” is a term coined to label the truth that has been widely redis-
covered as a result of asking the question, “If they (the contemporary
Jews) are not the Israelites of the Bible, then who are?” The true Israelites
can be identified Biblically, historically and archaeologically as the Anglo-
Saxon, Celtic, Germanic, Scandinavian and Kindred people. . . . Initially,
as a Christian minister, and did not accept this truth. In fact, I rejected
it as nothing more than “British Israelism,” “Armstrongism,” or “Anglo-
Israelism.” Eventually, however, I accepted it as true in about 1984.
— Pastor Peter J. Peters (1997)53
On November 4, 2014, the Handbook of Religion: A Christian Engagement
with Traditions, Teachings, and Practices was released by by Baker Academic,
a Christian publisher. The present writer received an author’s copy on
November 25.54 The Handbook of Religion features 134 essays and 239
studies within the span of 812 pages. It was an ambitious project. While
looking through the book, this writer noticed two essays on Christian
Identity, by Michael Barkun, a leading authority, cited earlier in this chap-
ter.55 Barkun’s brief articles promised to be the best update now available
on Christian Identity.56
To state the obvious, Christian Identity is both a racist and “political
religion.”57 An umbrella term, “Christian Identity” adumbrates a cluster
of groups whose primary (and usually exclusive) domain is the world wide
web. As to the size of Christian Identity, Barkun estimates its adherents
number around 40,000, although it is not clear whether these demograph-
ics are current, or refer to the 1970s and early 1980s, when the movement
was at the peak of its influence.58 According to Barkun, Christian Identity
is “the product of three independent but interconnected preachers: Ber-
trand Comparet, William Potter Gale, and—most importantly—Wesley
Swift.59

Christian Identity Myths and Visions of America 199
Barkun’s articles offer a masterful yet succinct overview of Christian
Identity movements, based on his years of research and prior publications.
As one of the acknowledged authorities on this topic, Barkun’s information
is well worth reading. The following “Study Aid” provides a simple over-
view of Christian Identity doctrines:
Study Aid #211
Christian Identity Beliefs
Israelism:
White race descended from ten tribes
Creation:
Each race created separately (whites first)
Flood:
God’s punishment for miscegenation
Two-seed theory: Adam seed line: Abel, Seth, white race

Eve/serpent seed line: Cain, Jewish race
Millenarianism: Tribulation (race war) then victory60
Here, we see the familiar “Lost Tribes” myth, transferred from Britain to
America. The otherwise sick “Two-Seed” theory is alive and well, excluding
the “Jewish race” from the “white race,” where race appears to be deter-
mined primarily by religion. Barkun then makes this interesting statement,
suggesting that extremist elements in the otherwise radical Christian Iden-
tity movement actually reject Christianity in favor of “neopaganism”:
As Christian Identity began to decline in the late 1980s, anti-government
extremists on the far right began to gravitate to forms of neopaganism,
such as Odinism, with its explicit rejection of Christianity in favor of a
pre-Christian Nordic pantheon. Dan Gayman’s Church of Israel in Schell
City, Missouri, underwent a bitter split. Of the Identity organizations
prominent in the faith’s growth period, only Pete Peters’s Scriptures for
America, headquartered in LaPorte, Colorado, seems to have thrived.”61
Taking Barkun’s statement as as a cue, the present writer decided to
investigate “Scriptures for America” for the purposes of this chapter update.
Elsewhere, Barkun identifies several prominent “Christian Identity Web-
sites”: America’s Promise Ministries; Kingdom Identity Ministries; God’s
Order Affirmed in Love (GOAL); Orange Street Congregational Church;
Gospel Broadcasting Association; Posse Comitatus.62 Apart from whether
or not Posse Comitatus should have been included in this list,63 what is
significant here is that the Scriptures for America website is not included.
Nevertheless, Barkun’s inclusion of Scriptures for America ministry as
among the “Identity organizations prominent in the faith’s growth period”64
and his statement indicating that Scriptures for America “seems to have
thrived”65 to this day is theoretically and hypothetically problematic, since
it could be grounds for a possible defamation action, if this statement by
founder, Pastor Peter J. Peters, were to be acted on today:

200 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Christians, get this treatise into the hands of your local law enforcement
agencies, and into the hands of your national and state representatives. If
you wish, you can mail it anonymously. Also, we ask that you keep record
of newspapers, law enforcement agencies, individuals, etc., who label
Christian groups as “Identity.” To apply such a label is, today, slandering
and libelous. Send your reports to Coalition of Christian Organizations,
care of the Laporte Church of Christ, Post Office Box 766, LaPorte, Colo-
rado, 80535. Additionally, we ask for your recommendations concerning
law firms which may be interested in filing libel and slander law suits
concerning this matter.66
“Christian Identity”: label or libel? Pastor Peters seemed to think it was
both. The above exhortation—asking Christians to report defamatory
statements and to recommend law firms for possible libel actions—is
part of a broader statement (a so-called “treatise”), titled, “We are NOT
‘Gay,’ We are NOT Cannibals, and We Certainly are NOT ‘Identity’.”67 So
labeling Scriptures for America as a Christian Identity movement argu-
ably, from Pastor Peters’ perspective, may be construed as defamatory and
could be grounds for libel. As said, this is purely theoretical and hypothet-
ical, especially since a quick check of lexis.com reveals that no defamation
actions have ever been filed by “Scriptures for America” or by “Peter John
Peters.”68
As a general rule, an action for defamation may be brought by a plaintiff
when libelous information is published to a third-party. But there is one
sure defense to a defamation claim: truth. Truth acts as a complete defense.
“Scriptures for America” was founded in 1977 by Peter J. Peters, who
died on July 7, 2011.69 The reason why the Scriptures for America website
today does not identify itself as a Christian Identity movement appears to
be that over time Pastor Peters distanced himself from the organization.
Apparently, Pastor Peters established his church, the LaPorte Church of
Christ, in October, 1977. Yet it did not become a Christian Identity organi-
zation until 1984. Then, in or around the year 2000, Pastor Peters explicitly
contested the claim that Scriptures for America was a Christian Identity
organization. This was not a disavowal. Rather, it was a complete denial.
However, the truth appears to be that Pastor Peters wanted to cover up the
fact that Scriptures for America was formerly, and formally, identified with
the Christian Identity movement.
The best evidence for this is that, in 1999, Pastor Peters actually changed
his organization’s website to www.christianidentity.org, and his email
address to pastor@christianidentity.org.70 No more explicit identification
with the Christian Identity organization could be evidenced or imagined
than this. (This website was formerly www.identity.org, and Pastor Peters
had a CompuServe email address.) Today, this website is defunct, with
the message: “christianidentity.org expired on 09/02/2013 and is pending

Christian Identity Myths and Visions of America 201
renewal or deletion.”71 The website has been “captured” (archived), at vari-
ous times, by Internet Archive.72 The following autobiographical statement
can be found on one of these archived pages:
“Identity” is a term coined to label the truth that has been widely redis-
covered as a result of asking the question, “If they (the contemporary
Jews) are not the Israelites of the Bible, then who are?” The true Israelites
can be identified Biblically, historically and archaeologically as the Anglo-
Saxon, Celtic, Germanic, Scandinavian and Kindred people. . . . Initially,
as a Christian minister, and did not accept this truth. In fact, I rejected
it as nothing more than “British Israelism,” “Armstrongism,” or “Anglo-
Israelism.” Eventually, however, I accepted it as true in about 1984.73
Going back in time, one can that see Pastor Peter’s messages explicitly
conveyed classic Christian Identity doctrines. Here’s one example:
There is no apparent sign of a spiritual revival in America and the Western
World at this time. The masses of the Anglo-Saxon people have willed
their soul to the devil. . . . The racial pride of previous generations is now
being surrendered on the altar of racial miscegenation. There is no pride
of race and of religion left in America among our Anglo-Saxon people.
Our race prides itself in mixing its seed with the non-white aliens who
swarm our land.74
Based on the foregoing, Michael Barkun’s claim may appear to be over-
stated: “Of the Identity organizations prominent in the faith’s growth period,
only Pete Peters’s Scriptures for America, headquartered in LaPorte, Colo-
rado, seems to have thrived.”75 However, this is consistent with Barkun’s
general observation that some Christian Identity movements have stopped
using that label:
As the term “Christian Identity” has become associated with violence and
anti-government activities, believers have ceased using it. They prefer a
variety of other, non-pejorative terms, referring to themselves, for exam-
ple, as “covenant people,” “kingdom people,” “kingdom covenant,” and
so on. When asked whether they are Christian Identity, many deny it.76
What about Scriptures for America today? Even though it does not
call itself a Christian Identity organization, what evidence is there, for or
against, such an identification today? It’s hard to say. Here’s why:
There is a subtle hint of a “Whites–only” racial message from this
self-professed “international outreach ministry of the LaPorte Church of
Christ,” whose mission statement includes the following “This ministry
is dedicated to proclaiming the true Gospel of Christ Jesus throughout the

202 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
earth, and to revealing to Americans and the Western Nations their true
Biblical Identity.”77 Clear evidence of the “Lost Tribes Myth” is seen in this
greeting that opens every issue of “The Dragon Slayer Newsletter” pub-
lished by Scriptures for America: “Greetings to the once lost but now found
sheep of the House of Israel.”78 Presumably this refers to White Americans
as the true “House of Israel.” If true, this would make the “once lost but
now found sheep of the House of Israel” the “Remnant” white sheep, i.e.,
White Americans.
A writer who identifies himself as “Ram Rod @ SFA” must be a son
of late Pastor Peters: “I for one choose to believe what the Bible says,
just like Dad did!” At the end of the article, the author identifies him-
self as “Pastor Peter John Peters’ (Dad’s) second, Jonathan RR.” Ram
Rod then quotes a Scripture that contains the word “Jerusalem,” but
spelled, “JerUSAlem.”79 In other words, Jerusalem is a code word for the
United States of America. A letter from a reader, from Washington state,
asserts, in part: “I was listening to your sermon message via live radio
stream (9/28/14 AM), and I was impressed by the power of your mes-
sage . . . that the Anglo-Saxon, Scandinavian, Celtic and kindred peoples
are the actual descendants of the ‘lost’ or ‘dispersed’ tribes of Israel, and
not modern Jewry.”80
The best key to unlock the underlying ideology of Scriptures for America
is by the titles of the organization’s books, pamphlets and other materials
that are available for sale online. There are a grand total of 1,176 audio
recordings on CD that are currently available for sale online. The titles of
these Scriptures for America sermons (presumably all preached by Pastor
Peters) on CD are especially revealing: “The True Creation Story (Man,
and then Adam)” (Sermon 102); “The Prophetic Curses in America” (Ser-
mon 105); “The Teachings of Jesus and the Jews on Judaism” (Sermon
113); “What Difference Does the Israelite Identity Make?” (Sermon 114);
“The Most Confusing Word in Scripture: Jew” (Sermon 120); “Interracial
Marriage–Part 1” (Sermon 170); “Pastor Peters’ Encounter with Falwell”
(Sermon 182); “America Found in the Bible” (Sermon 216).81 These titles
are suggestive of Christian Identity doctrines, but not conclusively so. They
are available for purchase. The present writer has not purchased any. But
this particular sermon would be the first of the present writer would choose
to order, if pursuing this research any further:
153 - Identity: What it Is & What it is Not
With so many diverse teachings and so many UNCHRISTIAN people
being labeled as “Identity,” just what is it really all about? This message
blows through the media fog of lies, distortions and exaggerations to dis-
credit the Christian Israel Identity revival.82
Another problem with Scriptures for America is that, while it appears
to have had a less pejorative outlook on non-White races compared with

Christian Identity Myths and Visions of America 203
radical Christian Identity movements, some of the literature that was
not authored by Pastor Peters was, and still is, sold by his organization,
Scriptures for America. The sale of the following audio cassette may be
evidence that the Two-Seed Myth, while not actively promoted, was also
not opposed: “368–Satanic Seedline by Charles Weisman. This message
addresses what has become known as the ‘Seedline Doctrine.’ What
happened in the Garden? Did Satan physically seduce Eve?”83 The Mud
Races Myth may be implied in one Scriptures for America book for sale:
Not of One Blood by Charles A. Weisman which features, on its cover, a
drawing of a handsome young white man, and drawings of three other
men, captioned (clockwise): “Neanderthal,” “Negro,” and “Oriental.”84
This book has been promoted in The Dragon Slayer Newsletter in 2002 in
the “Good Books for Your Library” section, and likely at other times as
well.85 Whether or not one or more of these materials explicitly mention,
or strongly imply, the Two-Seed Myth, the Mud Races Myth, the White
Homeland Myth, and the Racial Holy War Myth, requires further inves-
tigation. But there’s every indication that the publications by Weisman
provide undeniable evidence of such.
The White Homeland Myth is difficult to find in a search of the “Scrip-
tures for America” website. This aspiration has also been connected with
with the apocalyptic myth of a Racial Holy War (RaHoWa), previously
referred to earlier in this chapter. One important distinction between
Christian Identity and evangelical Christianity (including the new Christian
Right) is over the Rapture. Pastor Peters was asked whether or not he was
a premillennialist and he replied:
Now, for years I have heard about this stuff called dispensationalism. For
years, I have been asked the question, “Pastor Peters, are you a pre-mil-
lennialist or a postmillennialist?” For years, my reply has been, “Well,
I am a pan-millennialist.” . . . I did understand that the teaching of the
rapture was not right. In fact, I have always threatened to bring a message
entitled, “Pardon Me, Ma’am, Your Rapture Has a Rupture.”86
America is the New Jerusalem, in Peters’ view. “I see in scripture that
there will be a new Jerusalem and it is not the old Jerusalem,” Pastor Peters
explains. “Here is described a J-e-r USA l-e-m. America is in the Bible and
America will be redeemed from the hand of her enemies, which is Babylon.
She will be delivered.”87 This is further evidence that Scriptures for America
is a Christian white nationalist movement, but without the virulent and
violent characteristics of radical Christian Identity extremists. As is obvi-
ous in the spelling of “JerUSAlem,” it would appear that, since the United
States of America is obviously meant by the capital letters, “USA,” then it
would stand to reason that the White homeland is America itself, meaning
the entire country, rather than the Pacific Northwest, as in the “Butler Plan”
or the so-called “Northwest Territorial Imperative.”

204 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Yet Christian Identity doctrines in Scriptures for America’s ideology are
not immediately obvious to the untrained eye, but may—or may not—be
discernible, if catchphrase code words are detected and their encrypted
messages are decoded. After fairly extensive searches, the present writer
could not find much by way of overt denigration of non-White races on the
part of Pastor Peters, although literature stating as much was marketed, if
one sifts through the mass of materials with an eye for such. But perhaps
this was simply careful management of the Scriptures for America image.
Clearly, Pastor Peters was concerned about his reputation, and the reputa-
tion of his “worldwide” ministry.
However, in 2014, Scriptures for America clearly shows tendencies
towards Identity doctrines. But one thing that can be said for the late Pastor
Peters is that he is obviously a committed Christian in his own way, and that
most of his sermons cover topics and concerns relevant to just about any
Christian. In his own way, Pastor Peters is likable. He comes across as sin-
cere, and apparently is a man of faith. On the surface, he may not appear to
be as virulently racist as his Christian Identity counterparts, except for his
anti-Semitism, which clearly comes through if one listens carefully enough
to what is really being said, once the codewords are decoded.
To be fair, Pastor Peters was even criticized by his fellow White suprem-
acists for associating with African Americans, from time to time, as he
himself admits to having done in 1997:
My speaking engagement in Spokane, Washington, generated great news
coverage . . . Homosexuals picketed the conference center, and one day
as I walked out to go to lunch, I noticed a group of mostly black men
standing in a circle with signs saying NAACP. They were praying, so I
joined the circle and prayed with them. They prayed some very good
prayers. Little did they suspect that the very man that the Jewish media
had slandered and made them fearful of was in their very midst, praying
with them!88
Is Scriptures for America a Christian Identity organization, or not? Has
this zebra changed its stripes? Is this a horse of a different color? Scriptures
for America is still blatantly anti-Semitic. It is still a white nationalist move-
ment. Yet it seems to have undergone a transformation, over time, consistent
with Barkun’s observation of the general tendency of such organizations to
disavow, and even deny, any connection with the Christian Identity move-
ment. In the case of Scriptures for America, not only has there been a denial
(but not a disavowal), but there is also some lingering indication that, along
with the group of black men that he prayed with in 1997, Pastor Peters may
himself, in the end, have “prayed some very good prayers.”
One of the last major Christian Identity figures, Pete Peters (d. 2011)—like
Butler, Swift, Gale, Weisman and their ilk—is now gone, as are most of the

Christian Identity Myths and Visions of America 205
other second-generation Christian Identity leaders. Whether a new cadre
of Christian Identity advocates will arise in their stead is hard to say. Now,
Christian Identity appears to be on the wane, after it had waxed strong
on the internet. Perhaps this is due to greater public intolerance of racial
intolerance, which is increasingly disfavored. At best, Christian Identity
advocates have been loosely organized, and have tended to operate as small
businesses for the sale and distribution of racist propaganda. That business
is dying. Christian Identity websites still exist, with online audio and video
“broadcasts” geared to an ever-shrinking audience. At some point, people
simply grow weary of hating.
Notes

1. Dr. Wesley A. Swift, “The Coming Liberation of America” (January 30,
1966).

2. Betty A. Dobratz, “The Role of Religion in the Collective Identity of the
White Racialist Movement.” Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion 40.2
(June 2001): 287–302 [289].

3. “CREATIVITY: Creed and Program” (emphasis added).

4. Ben Klassen, White Man’s Bible (1992), 121.

5. Stanislav Vysotsky, “Understanding the Racist Right in the Twenty First
Century: A Typology of Modern White Supremacist Organizations” (n.p.:
Northeastern University, 2004), 9.

6. Stephen Shaw, “Harassment, Hate, and Human Rights in Idaho.” Politics
in the Postwar American West. Ed. Richard Lowitt (Norman: University of
Oklahoma Press, 1995), 94–105 [98].

7. Betty A. Dobratz and Stephanie L. Shanks, The White Separatist Movement in
the United States: White Power, White Pride! (Boston: Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity Press, 2001), 136.

8. Swift’s sermons are posted online by the “Church of True Israel.”

9. See “Kingdom Identity Ministries.”

10. See “Kingdom Identity Ministries Doctrinal Statement of Beliefs.”

11. “Kingdom Identity Ministries.”

12. See Kingdom Identity Ministries’s “Herald of Truth” archived broadcasts
online at http://www.kingidentity.com/radioarchives/. (Accessed Decem-
ber 21, 2014.)

13. Rev. David Ostendorf, “Christian Identity: An American Heresy.” Journal of
Hate Studies 1.1 (2001/2002): 23–55 [29].

14. Rev. William P. Gale, Racial and National Identity: A Sermon.

15. See official “Aryan Nations Church of Jesus Christ Christian” website.

16. See “Aryan Nations” website.

17. “Aryans Without a Nation.” Intelligence Report (Fall 2000).

18. “Kingdom Identity Ministries Doctrinal Statement of Beliefs.”

19. Douglas E. Cowan, “Theologizing Race: The Construction of ‘Christian Iden-
tity’.” Religion and the Creation of Race and Ethnicity: An Introduction. Ed. Craig
Prentiss (New York: New York University Press, 2003), 112–123 [122].

206 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America

20. Craig R. Prentiss, “Coloring Jesus: Racial Calculus and the Search for Iden-
tity in Twentieth-century America.” Nova Religio 11.3 (February 2008):
64–82.

21. Abby Ferber, “Of Mongrels and Jews: The Deconstruction of Racialised
Identities in White Supremacist Discourse.” Social Identities 3 (1997):
193–208.

22. “Kingdom Identity Ministries Doctrinal Statement of Beliefs.”

23. King James Version (KJV).

24. Swift, “What Really Happened in the Garden of Eden?”

25. Michael Barkun, Religion and the Racist Right: The Origins of the Christian Iden-
tity Movement (Chapel Hill, NC: University of North Carolina Press, 1997),
x–xi.

26. Dobratz, “The Role of Religion in the Collective Identity of the White
Racialist Movement,” 3.

27. Mitch Berbrier, “Impression Management for the Thinking Racist: A Case
Study of Intellectualization as Stigma Transformation in Contemporary
White Supremacist Discourse.” Sociological Quarterly 40.3 (1999): 411–433.

28. “Kingdom Identity Ministries Doctrinal Statement of Beliefs.”

29. “Kingdom Identity Ministries Doctrinal Statement of Beliefs.”

30. Ostendorf, “Christian Identity,” 28.

31. Ibid., 30.

32. “Kingdom Identity Ministries Doctrinal Statement of Beliefs.”

33. Cited Ostendorf, “Christian Identity: An American Heresy,” 31.

34. Southern Poverty Law Center, “Elder Statesman: A Life of Hate, and the
Future in the Balance.” Intelligence Report (Summer 1998): 2.

35. Southern Poverty Law Center, “Elder Statesman,” 2.

36. James Ridgeway, Blood in the Face: The Ku Klux Klan, Aryan Nations, Nazi
Skinheads, and the Rise of a New White Culture (New York: Thunder’s Mouth
Press, 1999), 148.

37. Wilmot Robertson, The Ethnostate: An Unblinkered Prospectus for an Advanced
Statecraft (Cape Canaveral, FL: Howard Allen Enterprises, 1992).

38. Time 156.10 (September 4, 2000): 32–33.

39. “Aryans Without a Nation.” Intelligence Report (Fall 2000).

40. See Michael F. Leavitt (student casenote), “Keenan v. Aryan Nations, No.
CV-99-441 (Idaho 2000).” Idaho Law Review 37.3 (2001): 603–639.

41. Kathleen Stewart, “Bad Endings: American Apocalypsis.” Annual Review of
Anthropology 28 (1999): 285–310 [286].

42. “Kingdom Identity Ministries Doctrinal Statement of Beliefs.”

43. “Kingdom Identity Ministries Doctrinal Statement of Beliefs.”

44. Creativity Movement, Little White Book.

45. Ibid., 33.

46. Troy Graham, “Supremacist Pleads to Sale of Stolen Guns.” Philadelphia
Inquirer (May 5, 2006), 1.

47. “SA: Racist Group Bases Website Activity in SA.” AAP General News Wire
(Sydney: January 31, 2006), 1.

48. Dobratz, “The Role of Religion,” 299.

49. “Pastor” Bertrand L. Comparet, “Man and Beast.”

50. Wesley A. Swift, “The Children of the Beast.”

Christian Identity Myths and Visions of America 207

51. Dr. Wesley A. Swift, “The Coming Liberation of America” (January 30,
1966).

52. Pastor Peter J. Peters, “Examples of How it is Accomplished.” Scriptures
for America. (Archived November 11, 2000.) See https://web.archive.org/
web/20001109191200/http://www.scripturesforamerica.org/html/exam-
ples.html. (Accessed November 26, 2014.)

53. Pastor Peter J. Peters, “Framing Deceit,” 3. (Archived on March 12, 2003). See
https://web.archive.org/web/20030312054940/http://www.scripturesfora-
merica.org/html/Framing%20Deceit.pdf. (Accessed November 26, 2014.)

54. See Christopher Buck, “Baha’i: History, Beliefs, Practices,” and “Baha’i:
Theological Exchanges, Current Issues,” Handbook of Religion: A Christian
Engagement with Traditions, Teachings, and Practices. Ed. Terry C. Muck, Har-
old A. Netland, Gerald R. McDermott (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Academic,
2014), 714–719 and 720–724.

55. Michael Barkun, Religion and the Racist Right: The Origins of the Christian Iden-
tity Movement (Chapel Hill, NC: University of North Carolina Press, 1997);
idem, “Racist Apocalypse: Millennialism on the Far Right.” American Stud-
ies 31.2 (1990): 121–140.

56. Michael Barkun, “Christian Identity: History, Beliefs, Practices” and “Chris-
tian Identity: Theological Exchanges, Current Issues,” Handbook of Religion:
A Christian Engagement with Traditions, Teachings, and Practices. Ed. Terry C.
Muck, Harold A. Netland, Gerald R. McDermott (Grand Rapids, MI: Baker
Academic, 2014), 653–657 and 658–662.

57. Martin Durham, “Christian Identity and the Politics of Religion.” Totalitar-
ian Movements and Political Religions 9.1 (March 2008): 79–91.

58. Barkun, “Christian Identity: Theological Exchanges, Current Issues,” 659.

59. Barkun, “Christian Identity: History, Beliefs, Practices,” 654.

60. Barkun, “Christian Identity: History, Beliefs, Practices,” 656.

61. Barkun, “Christian Identity: History, Beliefs, Practices,” 655.

62. Barkun, “Christian Identity: Theological Exchanges, Current Issues,” 659.

63. Posse Comitatus is arguably not a religious organization, and therefore
not a Christian Identity movement per se. In any case, its official website,
http://possecomitatus.us, is defunct. (Verified on November 27, 2014.)

64. Barkun, “Christian Identity: History, Beliefs, Practices,” 655.

65. Barkun, “Christian Identity: History, Beliefs, Practices,” 655.

66. Pastor Peter J. Peters, “We are NOT ‘Gay,’ We are NOT Cannibals, and
We Certainly are NOT ‘Identity’: 17. Warnings.” Scriptures for America. See
https://web.archive.org/web/20001109023400/http://www.scripturesfo-
ramerica.org/html/warnings.html. Archived November 9, 2000. (Accessed
November 27, 2014.)

67. Pastor Peter J. Peters, “We are NOT ‘Gay,’ We are NOT Cannibals, and
We Certainly are NOT ‘Identity’.” Scriptures for America. See https://web.
archive.org/web/20001206053200/http://www.scripturesforamerica.org/
html/notidentity.html. Archived November 9, 2000. (Accessed November
27, 2014.)

68. See e.g. Peters v. Peters (In re Estate of Peters), 29 P.3d 90 (Wyo. 2001).

69. Bill Morlin, “Influential Christian Identity Pastor Dies,” Hatewatch (Intel-
ligence Project of the Southern Poverty Law Center, July 15, 2011). See

208 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
http://www.splcenter.org/blog/2011/07/15/influential-christian-identity-
pastor-dies/. (Accessed November 25, 2014.)

70. Scriptures for America Worldwide, Newsletter, “Volume 1999, No. 1,” 7. See
http://www.sfaw.org/newsletters/1999/newsletter%20vol%201_1999.
pdf. (Accessed November 26, 2014.)

71. See http://www.christianidentity.org/. (Accessed November 26, 2014.)

72. Internet Archive. See https://web.archive.org/web/19990125094154/
http://www.christianidentity.org/. (Captured January 25, 1999.) (Accessed
November 26, 2014.)

73. Pastor Peter J. Peters, “Framing Deceit,” 3. Scriptures for America. (Archived
March 12, 2003). See https://web.archive.org/web/20030312054940/
http://www.scripturesforamerica.org/html/Framing%20Deceit.pdf.
(Accessed November 26, 2014.)

74. Scriptures for America Worldwide (Pastor Peter J. Peters), “Serpent Spell
Casting Secrets,” Newsletter, “Vol. 6 1997,” 3. See http://www.sfaw.org/
newsletters/1997/newsletter%20vol%206_1997.pdf. (Accessed Novem-
ber 26, 2014.)

75. Barkun, “Christian Identity: History, Beliefs, Practices,” 655.

76. Barkun, “Christian Identity: History, Beliefs, Practices,” 657.

77. Scriptures for America WorldWide (sic). See http://www.scripturesfora-
merica.org/. (Accessed November 25, 2014.)

78. Scriptures for America, “Mystery of the Kingdom,” The Dragon Slayer News-
letter, “Vol.” [No.] 9 (2014): 1. See http://www.sfaw.org/newsletters/2014/
Volume%209%202014%20for%20web.pdf.
(Accessed
November
26,
2014.)

79. Scriptures for America, “Oil,” The Dragon Slayer Newsletter, “Vol.” [No.] 8
(2014): 6. See http://www.sfaw.org/newsletters/2014/Volume%208%20
2014%20for%20web.pdf. (Accessed November 26, 2014.)

80. Scriptures for America, “Mystery of the Kingdom,” The Dragon Slayer News-
letter, “Vol.” [No.] 9 (2014): 18.

81. Scriptures for America, “CDs.” See http://sfacart.com/sfacart_store1/cds.
html. (Accessed November 25, 2014.)

82. Scriptures for America, “CDs.” See http://sfacart.com/sfacart_store1/
cds/153-identity-what-it-is-what-it-is-not.html. (Accessed November 27,
2014.)

83. Scriptures for America tape catalog (December 28, 2005). See https://web.
archive.org/web/20051228024435/http://www.scripturesforamerica.org/
catalog/catalog%202005.pdf. (Accessed November 26, 2014.)

84. Charles A. Weisman, Not of One Blood (Apple Valley, MN: Weisman
Publications, 2001). See http://sfacart.com/sfacart_store1/books/b-148-
not-of-one-blood.html. See also the “Weisman Publications” website at
http://www.seek-info.com. (Accessed November 25, 2014.)

85. Scriptures for America, The Dragon Slayer Newsletter “Vol.” [No.] 8 (2002):
4. See http://www.sfaw.org/newsletters/2002/Volume%208%202002%20
for%20web.pdf. (Accessed November 26, 2014.)

86. Pastor Peter J. Peters, “Urgent, Eleventh Hour Message: What is Com-
ing and What to Do,” 3. (Archived on March 12, 2003). See https://web.
archive.org/web/20030312015325/http://www.scripturesforamerica.org/
html/Eleventh%20Hour%20Message.pdf. (Accessed November 26, 2014.)

Christian Identity Myths and Visions of America 209

87. Pastor Peter J. Peters, “Urgent, Eleventh Hour Message: What is Coming
and What to Do,” 19.

88. Scriptures for America Worldwide (Pastor Peter J. Peters), “Personal from
the Editor’s Pen,” Newsletter, “Vol. 2 1997,” 2. See http://www.sfaw.org/
newsletters/1997/newsletter%20vol%202_1997.pdf. (Accessed Novem-
ber 26, 2014.)

Figure 9.1. “A cafe near the tobacco market, Durham, North Carolina.” Photo by Jack
Delano (May 1940).
The Jim Crow era was defined by legalized segregation, as shown in this pic-
ture. Under America’s apartheid, the “separate but equal” doctrine was the law of
the land from 1896 to 1954, when the Supreme Court’s landmark Brown v. Board
of Education decision overturned Plessy v. Ferguson. Jim Crow America set the
stage for the rise of the Nation of Islam—a reactionary movement that promised to
restore dignity and independence to oppressed African Americans across the coun-
try. However, the Nation of Islam’s answer to enforced segregation was, and still is,
self-segregation.
(Public domain. Library of Congress. See http://www.loc.gov/pictures/collec-
tion/fsa/item/fsa1998006213/PP/. Accessed January 12, 2015.)

Chapter 9
Black Muslim Myths
and Visions of America
The Kingdom of God is an egalitarian kingdom structured on truth, where
each of us will be treated with fairness and justice. America could become
the basis for the Kingdom of God.
—Louis Farrakhan (1993)1
How is God going to destroy America? What instrument is He going to
use? . . . The Honorable Elijah Muhammad told us of a giant Mother
Plane that is made like the universe, spheres within spheres. White people
call them unidentified flying objects (UFOs).
—Louis Farrakhan (1996)2
A black man with a white mother became a savior to us. . . . A black man
with a white mother could turn out to be one who can lift America from
her fall.
— Louis Farrakhan (2008)3
The Nation of Islam has an apocalyptic and chilling interpretation of Eze-
kiel, Chapter 1.
The Honorable Louis Farrakhan, current leader of the Nation of Islam,
interprets Ezekiel, Chapter 1—considered by some to be the most mystical
and recondite chapter in the Bible—as, as a grim forecast of the destruction
of America. America is in mortal danger of destruction—not by nuclear
bombs, by “drill bombs,” delivered from an arsenal in outer space.
Black Muslims believe that Ezekiel saw and described a giant spaceship,
referred to as the “Mother Wheel” or the “Mother Plane.” To punish Amer-
ica for its evils of past slavery and present racism, the Mother Wheel will
remove Blacks and then destroy White America.4 A member of one of the
branches of the Nation of Islam (the “Five Percent Nation of Islam”) is a

212 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
popular hip-hop artist, the rapper known as “Killah Priest” or simply as
“Priest.” Priest was interviewed in 1997 with questions that probed his
religious beliefs.5
At that time, Priest was a Black Muslim. In the course of the interview,
Priest was asked: “Why, then, do you rap so much about outer space?”
To which Priest answered: “Because that’s where we’re from! Black people
come from space. When you look at the sky, it’s black.” Priest then talked
about UFOs (unidentified flying objects): “I’m talking about pure facts. . . .
But space travel is real. . . . Ezekiel saw UFOs back then—only they were
IFOs, because he identified them. . . . They were chariots of fire.”
Alluding to the destruction of America that will be inflicted by the
Mother Wheel, Priest invoked Isaiah and connected it with the destruction
of America (although Priest does not explicitly mention America): “Isaiah
66:15—‘the Lord will come with fire, and his chariots like a whirlwind.’
He’s going to come and wreak vengeance.”6 In one of his rap songs, “Mad-
ness,” Priest speaks of the apocalypse as foretold by the Nation of Islam:
I see prophecies unfold that was told by the prophets of old
Looked up, I saw the clouds in Heaven roll
Back like a gigantic scroll
UFO’s came down to damage the globe.7
This is a transparent reference to the “baby planes,” which are small
spacecraft whose mission is to drop their payloads of “drill bombs” on
White America in a literal Day of Judgment for the Babylon that America
has become. This chapter will enlarge on some of the central Black Muslim
myths and visions of America that Killah Priest has invoked.
Black nationalism is a reaction to White nationalism. For decades, the
leading Black nationalist movement in contemporary America has been
the Nation of Islam (NOI), whose followers are known as “Black Mus-
lims.” Indeed they are Black, but are they Muslims? But that was not the
point at all. There was a special reason for calling this religion “Islam”:
since Christianity was perceived as the “White man’s religion,” Islam
was presented as an alternative religion—the “Black man’s religion.” The
Nation of Islam had therefore appropriated the name of “Islam” as this
alternative religion. Yet the teachings of the NOI, at first, had very little to
do with traditional Islam.
The Nation of Islam’s core teachings would appear, to ordinary Muslims
at least, to have both congruities and incongruities with traditional Islam.
For instance, while Whites may convert to Islam, they have never been
allowed to convert to the Nation of Islam. As Malcolm X said in his 1962
speech, “Black Man’s History,” a Black Muslim, by definition, is black, and
“the only ticket you need to get into Muhammad’s Mosque is to be black.”8
This racial exclusion—this self-segregation is in an already-segregated

Black Muslim Myths and Visions of America 213
society—contributed enormously to the NOI’s popular appeal among
socially disenfranchised African Americans, who wanted liberation, since
integration was not an option at that time.
During “America’s apartheid” in the Jim Crow era, the Nation of Islam,
adopting a prophetic voice with a shrill rhetoric to match, advocated a
Black homeland, free of White oppression. Not surprisingly, the Nation
preached (and still preaches) a Black gospel—a theology of Black lib-
eration. Its prophets are “Master Fard Muhammad Allah” (God), Elijah
Muhammad (the Messiah), and Louis Farrakhan (the Messiah’s envoy),
not to mention the stellar role played by Malcolm X. Today, despite its radi-
cal beginnings, the Nation of Islam’s teachings have changed over time.
Today, in fact, NOI doctrine and discourse may be described as moderate
and somewhat egalitarian. This evolution is far more pronounced in the
NOI’s public rhetoric, but not so much in its private discourse. Neverthe-
less, the NOI has come a long way since Farrakhan’s song, “A White Man’s
Heaven Is a Black Man’s Hell.”9
The “Lost-Found Nation of Islam” was founded by an itinerant peddler,
Wallace D. Fard, also known as Fard Muhammad and, later on, as “Master
W. Fard Muhammad.” After being released from San Quentin Prison for
having sold narcotics, he moved to Detroit in 1930. There, he peddled silk
garments to Blacks, gained their confidence, and began to teach them their
“lost” Afrocentric history. Fard was clearly influenced by the ideas of Noble
Drew Ali (a.k.a. Timothy Drew), the Black founder of the Moorish Science
Temple of America (MSTA), which introduced such Islam-esque precepts
and praxis as the prohibition of pork, the use of Arabic personal names,
and the emblematic display of the crescent-and-star motif. Drew, who was
looked to by his followers as a prophet, foretold the apocalyptic annihilation
of all Whites. Fard was, in fact, a member of the MSTA.
A figure shrouded in mystery, Fard either disappeared or died as of June
30, 1934. He was succeeded by Elijah Muhammad (originally, Elijah Poole,
1897–1975). The son of an ex-slave and Baptist preacher, Poole met W. D.
Fard in 1931 at one of Fard’s meetings on Hasting Street—the main thor-
oughfare in black Detroit—and believed he had found a savior for the Black
race. Recounting that fateful encounter over 30 years later, Muhammad told
Ebony magazine: “He [Fard] didn’t have to tell me that he was Allah. I rec-
ognized him. And right there I told him that he was the one the world had
been looking for to come [sic].”10
For a long time prior to this, Elijah himself had wanted to save his race.
As a boy, Elijah witnessed a lynching. The victim had allegedly insulted a
White woman. This was a horrible thing to witness firsthand, and young
Elijah was deeply disturbed by it: “That event had impressed me so much
that I cannot get over it; I did never [sic] forget it, not until this day.”11 As
a youth, after listening to accounts of cruelty and suffering under slavery,
Elijah used to say: “My grandmother, when I get to be a man, if the Lord

214 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
helps me I will try to get my people out of the grip of this White man
because I believe that we will not be able to get along with peace under
his government.”12
Elijah Muhammad went on to lead the Nation of Islam from 1934 to 1975.
In addition to its theology of a Black God and gospel of Black liberation,
the Nation of Islam promoted self-reliance by encouraging the large-scale
development of Black-owned businesses. In its heyday, the NOI was a suc-
cessful and wealthy enterprise. Unfortunately, Muhammad’s leadership was
marred by moral contradictions in his own personal life. In January 1960,
Elijah Muhammad’s first out-of-wedlock child was born—the first of 13
illegitimate children whom he fathered over a seven-year period by seven
different mistresses.
During his tenure as leader of the Nation of Islam, Elijah Muh.ammad
attracted two converts who would become his most famous protégé’s: Mal-
colm X and Louis Farrakhan. While in prison, Malcolm X converted to the
Nation of Islam in late 1948, and he went on to have a colorful and contro-
versial career. From his parole from prison in 1952 until his break with the
Nation in 1964, Malcolm X helped the ranks of the Nation swell from an
estimated 500 members in 1952 to 30,000 strong in 1963.
One of the lesser-known incidents in his life involved negotiations with
the Ku Klux Klan (KKK). In December 1960, Elijah Muhammad ordered
Malcolm X to meet representatives of the KKK in Atlanta, to investigate
their offer to Muhammad of a tract of land “so that his program of sep-
aration would sound more feasible to Negroes and therefore lessen the
pressure that the integrationists were putting upon the white man.”13 Later,
when he found out about Elijah Muhammad’s sexual escapades, Malcolm X
began to have serious doubts, not only about Muhammad’s integrity in the
wake of such moral turpitude, but about whether Muhammad was really a
messenger of Allah, as he had claimed.
On March 12, 1964, Malcolm X announced that he was leaving the
Nation of Islam. He went on to found the Muslim Mosque, Inc. and later,
on June 28, 1964, the Organization of Afro-American Unity. On April 19,
1964, Malcolm X completed his pilgrimage (Hajj) to Mecca and became
El-Hajj Malik al-Shabazz, his new Muslim name. On February 21, 1965,
Malcolm X was assassinated on the stage of the Audubon Ballroom in Har-
lem (with a strong suspicion that the NOI’s paramilitary wing, the Fruit of
Islam, was behind the assassination), thus ending a prophetic career as a
social reformer.
Meanwhile, in 1955, Louis Eugene Wolcott, a former nightclub singer,
joined the Nation of Islam. He was recruited by both Elijah Muham-
mad and Malcolm X. Wolcott first became known as Minister Louis X,
and later as Abdul Haleem Farrakhan, and, now, the Honorable Minister
Louis Farrakhan. When Elijah Muhammad died on February 25, 1975,
many thought that Farrakhan would succeed him. But Elijah Muh.ammad

Black Muslim Myths and Visions of America 215
had appointed his youngest son, Wallace Muhammad, as his successor
instead. During his first three years as leader of the Nation of Islam, Wal-
lace Muhammad (1933–2008), also known as Warith Deen Mohammed,
gradually renounced the teachings of his late father and converted a great
number of former members of the Nation into traditional Muslims. Hav-
ing led the Nation of Islam into mainstream Islam, Wallace Muhammad
changed the Nation’s name to the “American Muslim Mission.” In 1977,
Farrakhan left the American Muslim Mission, and, having taken several
thousand followers with him, reestablished the Nation of Islam under the
name, the “Original Nation of Islam.”
The Nation of Islam’s rise to power and influence reached its peak in
October 1995. The Million Man March, conceived and organized under
NOI leader Louis Farrakhan, was the largest gathering of African Ameri-
cans in U.S. history. The Million Man March was the crowning testimony
to the power and influence of Louis Farrakhan as a Black leader and
power broker. Yet, fairly recently, in fact, the Nation of Islam has come
to embrace traditional Islam. Like the conversion of Malcolm X—from
the Nation of Islam to traditional Islam—the NOI, in several major ways,
has undergone a slow conversion to traditional Islam. Farrakhan finally
led a transition of the NOI back to traditional Islam—culminating in
his open espousal of classical Islam—when he ostensibly reconciled
with Warith Deen Mohammed on “Saviour’s Day” in February 1999.
Yet, today, the Nation of Islam still maintains a distinct Black national
identity, and has never disclaimed its Black nationalist myths, which are
the subject of this chapter. The major religious myths of the Nation of
Islam are the Yacub Myth, the Mother Wheel Myth, and the Destruction
of America Myth, which is where jeremiad and apocalyptic rhetoric ulti-
mately intermix.
The Yacub Myth
Although this myth sprung from the fertile imagination of Elijah Muham-
mad, it was Malcolm X who gave definitive expression to this myth in short
form, as Terrill observes generally about Malcolm X’s repackaging of Elijah
Muhammad’s teachings: “While a minister in the Nation of Islam, Malcolm
crafted from the rambling revelations of Elijah Muhammad a hermetically
sealed prophetic rhetoric—it called upon its audience to realign their values
and behaviors with a foundational set of truths presented in and through
that very discourse.”14 Just before Christmas in December 1962, Malcolm
X delivered his vociferously anti-White sermon, “Black Man’s History,”15
at the Harlem’s Nation of Islam’s Mosque No. 7 in Harlem. On Malcolm’s
instructions, this speech was recorded by “Benjamin 2X” (now Benjamin
Karim), one of Malcolm’s most trusted and faithful lieutenants.

216 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
In “Black Man’s History,” Malcolm X restates Elijah Muhammad’s eso-
teric teachings about the origin of races, beginning with the proposition:
“The birth of the white race has always been a secret.”16 According to Mal-
colm X, Blacks came into existence 66 trillion years ago:
The Honorable Elijah Muhammad teaches us that sixty-six trillion years
ago our people were living on this planet: the black man was living on this
planet. But in those days it was larger than it is now, and the planet Mars,
that was off here beyond it, had an effect upon our planet then in the same
manner that the moon affects us today.17
They were an advanced race. For eons, Blacks led a blissful existence. But
their paradise suddenly ended 6,000 years ago when an evil Black scientist,
Yacub (a.k.a. “Yakub”), was bent on creating the White race. When he suc-
ceeded, the White race, evil by nature, would rule over Blacks for 6,000
years.
Malcolm goes on to retell the fantastic tale of the origins of the White
race, at the hands of evil Black scientist Yacub. Born in the year 8,400,
Yacub discovered the law of magnetism at the age of six. As polar opposites
attract, magnetism inspired Yacub to create a race that was the polar oppo-
site of Blacks. By so doing, he would create a human magnetic force field.
Yacub later discovered the secrets of genetics. This enabled Yacub to act
on his wish to create a new race. When the book of Genesis says, “Let us
make man,” these were Yacub’s words, not God’s. Yacub accomplished this
by means of a nefarious birth control law designed to favor light-skinned
offspring over black-skinned infants. Yacub forbade Black couples to marry.
But if one partner was brown in color, they could. If they gave birth to a
black child, doctors were to “put a needle in its brain and feed it to a wild
animal or give it to the cremator.”18 Within 200 years, no more Black babies
were born.
After Yacub’s death at age 150, this process of favoring lighter-skinned
offspring continued. Thus the brown race emerged from the black, the yel-
low race from the brown, and the white race from the yellow. After 200
years, the brown race was destroyed, leaving only “a yellow or mulatto-
looking civilization.”19 After a full 600 years had elapsed, “they had grafted
away the black, grafted away the brown, grafted away the yellow, so that all
they had left was a pale-skinned, blue-eyed, blonde-haired thing that you
call a man.”20 But this was no man: “actually the Bible calls him the devil,
. . . old Lucifer, Satan, or the serpent.”21
Malcolm X concludes this segment of his speech in saying: “They had
to murder off the black, brown, and yellow in order to get to the white.
And right to this very day the white man by nature wants to murder off
the black, brown, and yellow.”22 And further: “You’re not using the right
language when you say the white man. You call it the devil.”23 A further

Black Muslim Myths and Visions of America 217
instance of the anti-White invectives of this remarkable (and equally dis-
turbing) speech is the teaching that Whites cannot walk truly upright, since
they evolved from cavemen who crawled on all fours.24 Malcolm X goes
on to deepen anti-White antipathy by exciting feelings of repulsion for the
moral depravity of the White race. Here, Malcolm X suggests that White
women mated with dogs:
Oh yes, this was the white man, brother, up in the caves of Europe. He
had a tail that long . . . The Honorable Elijah Muhammad says . . . what
the white man would do, he’d dig a hole in the hill, that was his cave.
And his mother and his daughter and his wife would all be in there with
the dog. The only thing that made friends with the white man was the
dog. . . . It was then that the dog and the white man amalgamated. The
white woman went with the dog while they were living in the caves of
Europe. And right to this very day the white woman will tell you there is
nothing she loves better than a dog. They tell you that a dog is a man’s
best friend. They lived in that cave with those dogs and right now they
got that dog smell.25
Yacub would then teach this man “tricknology”26—the science of deceit.
And so the White man is the devil. The White race is not only racist, but
inherently murderous. The Nation of Islam has not repudiated these beliefs.
No efforts are made to distance the Nation of Islam from this core mythol-
ogy. Unabashed and unapologetic, this counter-racist mythology, equally
bigoted, has taken on a life of its own, in foreseeable perpetuity.
The Mother Wheel Myth
The Nation of Islam developed an apocalyptic scenario that promised racial-
ized retribution. To vanquish evil, the world must be freed of the White
Devil. The White race will be obliterated, as Elijah Muhammad has stated:
“According to the history of the white race (devils) they are guilty of . . .
causing war among the people and themselves ever since they have been
on our planet Earth. So the God of the righteous . . . has decided to remove
them from the face of the Earth.”27 Under this vision of the end, God would
judge between the “White Devil” and the Black man. Justice would then
prevail, not as equalization, but in annihilation of the White man. Arma-
geddon is thus to be a racial war28—an eschatology of reverse racism, if you
will. (One may think about the NOI apocalypse as a functional counterpart
to the “Racial Holy War” predicted by the Creativity Movement, as dis-
cussed in the previous chapter.)
How would all this take place? In one sense, the countdown to Arma-
geddon began when the slave ship, “Jesus of Lubeck,” captained by the

218 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
white devil, John Hawkins, came upon the shores of West Africa. “In effect,
slavery brought the original people like a Trojan horse into the fortress of
evil,” Mattias Gardell observes, “giving the African American a key role in
the approaching apocalypse.”29 Armageddon will be preceded by a kind of
Black “rapture.” Like faithful Christians being swept up into the air before
Jesus comes on a mushroom cloud, Black Muslims will be transported by
spacecraft to the Mother Wheel, their safe haven for the duration of the
apocalyptic upheaval.30 The White race, however, will be exterminated
under a hail of bombs dropped by space warplanes that are sent out on mis-
sions of destruction by the Mother Plane.31
The “Mother Wheel” myth is based on Ezekiel’s wheel of fire, originally
derived from Elijah Muhammad’s allegorization of passages from Ezekiel
10:2–11.32 This is clear in Chapter 125 of Message to the Blackman, “Battle in
the Sky Is Near.” But the most extensive description is by Elijah Muham-
mad, in Chapter 58, “The Mother Plane,” in his book, The Fall of America,
available online, an excerpt of which will serve to illustrate this flight of
imagination:
The Mother Plane was made to destroy this world of evil and to show
the wisdom and mighty power of the God Whom came to destroy an old
world and set up a new world. . . . The same type of plane was used by
the Original God to put mountains on His planets. . . . Allah (God) Who
came in the Person of Master Fard Muhammad, . . . taught me that . . .
He will raise these mountains to a height of one (1) mile over the United
States of America.33
Elijah Muhammad says that the Mother Plane was taught by W. D. Fard
himself. Be that as it may, this teaching is said to be grounded in Ezekiel’s
vision. This is Elijah Muhammad’s exegesis of it, in brief:
Ezekiel saw the Mother Plane in a vision. . . . According to the Bible, he
looked up and saw this Plane (Ez. 1:16) and he called it a wheel because
it was made like a wheel. A Plane that is wheel-shaped can turn in any
direction, at any time. He admitted that the Plane was so high that it
looked dreadful, and he cried out, “O wheel” (Ez. 10:13). Ezekiel saw
great work going on in the wheel and four living creatures “and their
work was as it were a wheel in the middle of a wheel.” (Ez. 1:16). And
when the living creatures went, the wheels went with them: and when
the living creatures were lifted up from the earth, the wheels, were lifted
up (Ez. 1:19).
In Ezekiel’s vision concerning the wheel, he said that he heard the
voice of one tell the other to take coals of fire and to scatter it over the
cities; this means bombs. . . . Allah (God) taught me that these bombs
are not to be dropped into water. They are to be dropped only on the

Black Muslim Myths and Visions of America 219
cities. . . . Allah (God) Whom came in the Person of Master Fard Muham-
mad, to Whom praises are due forever, taught me that the Mother plane
is a little human-made planet.34
Elijah Muhammad goes on to explain that the “four creatures represents
the four colors of the original people of the earth”—that is, “the four colors
of the Black man (Black, Brown, Yellow and Red).”35 Excluded here is the
evil White race, which will be destroyed. This fate of the White race is not,
however, absolute. Claude Andrew Clegg makes this important observa-
tion: “As one of the few major changes that Elijah Muhammad introduced
into the Nation’s overall belief system, over time white Muslims became
eligible for salvation; however, their hereafter would supposedly be quali-
tatively inferior to that of blacks.”36 A “remnant” of the White race would
be saved. This is hardly reassuring for Whites, as Clegg observes: “For the
most part, the question of white redemption was academic insofar as so
few would be able to contradict their wicked nature and save America by
extending freedom, justice, and equality to the so-called Negro.”37 Those
few Whites who would be saved, however, will only be converts to Islam.
The divine judgment executed by the Mother Wheel would pave the way
for the promised golden age, a utopian vision that Black Muslims would
dream of. This is the Millennium, which will be a Black paradise. The Black
Nation will be raised upon the smouldering ashes of the vanquished Cau-
casian civilization. The remnant of humanity will number a little more than
the 144,000 spoken of in the Book of Revelation. All vestiges of the old
world will have been obliterated. In a mere 20 years’ time, the very memory
of American civilization will vanish from the minds of the saved. The new
government will be “based upon truth, freedom, justice, and equality.”38 The
Original People will be biologically enhanced, physically fitter. They will be
“clothed in silk interwoven with gold.”39 Appearing as youthful 16-year-
olds, Black people will have a life-span of a thousand years or longer.40
The Destruction of America Myth
A further development of the Mother Wheel Myth is the Destruction of
America Myth. Again, this is the product of Elijah Muhammad’s imagi-
native end-time scenario. However, the way in which Malcolm X relates
it may be of more interest to readers. On December 4, 1963, Malcolm X
would deliver his speech, “God’s Judgment of America”41—later changed
to “God’s Judgment of White America.” This was popularly known as “The
Chickens Come Home to Roost” speech. The reason is this: shortly after
making this speech, Malcolm was asked by the press for his opinion on the
recent assassination of President John F. Kennedy. In response, Malcolm
caustically remarked that Kennedy “never foresaw that the chickens would

220 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
come home to roost so soon.” This callous quip set off a firestorm, leading
Elijah Muh.ammad to impose 90 days of silence on his leading spokesman.
Remarkably, “God’s Judgment of White America” incorporates hardly any
of the elements of Elijah Muhammad’s apocalyptic scenario, except to say
that “the white world” would somehow come to an end, as this excerpt
from the speech will serve to illustrate:
When The Honorable Elijah Muhammad says “end of the world,” he does
not mean the end of the earth; he is referring to the end of a race of
“world of people,” and their removal from this earth: the removal of their
world. There are many “worlds” here on this earth: the Buddhist world,
Hindu world, Jewish world, Christian world—Capitalist world, Commu-
nist world, Socialist world—Eastern world and Western world—Oriental
world and Occidental world—dark world and white world. Which of these
many worlds has come to the end of its rope, the end of its time? Look
around you at all of the signs and you will agree that it is the end of
time for the Western world, the European world, the Christian world, the
white world.42
This was public discourse. The nitty-gritty detail of the Black Muslim
apocalypse was, in fact, reserved for private discourse, which FBI surveil-
lance tapes would later disclose:
LITTLE [Malcolm X] told this group that there was a space ship 40 miles
up which was built by the wise men of the East and in this space ship
there are a number of smaller space ships and each one is loaded with
bombs. LITTLE stated that when ELIJAH MOHAMMED of Chicago, Illi-
nois, gives the word these ships will descend on the United States, bomb
it and destroy all the “white devils”. According to LITTLE these bombs
will destroy all the “devils” in the United States and that all the Muslims
in good standing will be spared. LITTLE claimed that their Prophet ELI-
JAH MOHAMMED was sent to the United States 20 years ago to save the
“Black people.”43
The new information disclosed here is that Elijah Muhammad himself
would give the order for the destruction to start. Note that Whites are not
called “people,” but instead are objectified—and demonized, quite literally—
as “devils.” The word “people” (with the connotation of “human”) is reserved
for “Black people” alone. This judgment, therefore, is not a judgment of indi-
viduals, but of races and religions. All good Muslims would be spared. The
clear implication here is that Blacks who are not Black Muslims would not be
spared. They would, however, be warned in advance of the impending doom.
Not to be unjust, just how would all good Muslims be spared? In another FBI
surveillance tape, Malcolm X is reported to have said:

Black Muslim Myths and Visions of America 221
First the planes would drop pamphlets written in Arabic and English
explaining that they should get on to your own kind at once. He stated
at this time the Muslims would have already left North America, and you
would have to find a way out for yourself. He stated that next there would
come a trumpet so piercing to your ears that it would drive men insane,
pregnant women would have their babies, and some would drop dead.
The last part of the destruction would be an airplane returning ALLAH to
the Almighty God Himself. He would light a match that would cause a fire
which no man could put out.44
America will literally be burned alive by divine conflagration. It was only
during his stellar rise as a minister of the Nation of Islam, from 1952 until
late 1959, that Malcolm X talked about the Mother Plane. Thereafter, he
appeared to abandon that topic altogether. “As the profile of the Nation
grew in the national press,” Wayne Taylor observes, “Malcolm eschewed his
earlier musings on the mother ship and shifted his focus to more earthly
matters.”45 This raises a question: did Malcolm X simply shift his focus to
more practical matters, or did he actually reject the myth of the Mother
Ship? If so, would this not have signaled a departure from the NOI norm,
or mark a crisis in faith? Taylor seems to suggest that both answers are
true: “In his struggle to bring African Americans closer to a paradise on
earth, Malcolm turned away from the fantastic visions and began to con-
centrate on creating brotherhood in the African Diaspora through political
and economic strategies.”46 Still, for the seven years that he would teach
his fellow Black Muslims about the Mother Plane, the result was electric,
for it had such great appeal for the rank-and-file Black Muslim: “Malcolm’s
racialized vision of the Armageddon captivated an audience desperate for
deliverance.”47 Yet, despite Malcolm’s eschewal of it, the myth persisted
having, as it were, a life of its own.
In fact, the Mother Wheel Myth was remarkably long-lived. Four decades
after Malcolm’s 1955 speech, Louis Farrakhan spoke at the Mosque
Maryam in Chicago, on June 9, 1996, on the topic: “The Divine Destruc-
tion of America: Can She Avert It?” In no uncertain terms, Farrakhan
said that God’s “intention is the total destruction of America.” Corrupt
to the core, America is the Babylon whose destruction was foretold in the
Book of Revelation, for “No city or people answers the description of a
mystery Babylon better than the cities and the people of America.” After
describing various cataclysms that would take place, Farrakhan described
a giant spacecraft called the “Mother Plane” (or “Mother Wheel”).48 His
description of it reveals how meticulously Farrakhan had followed Elijah
Muhammad’s teaching.
Literally made in Japan, the “giant Mother Plane”—which White people
have sighted and called unidentified flying objects (UFOs)—was foretold by
the prophet Ezekiel, who described it as “a wheel that looked like a cloud

222 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
by day but a pillar of fire by night.” This was the creation of “some of the
original [Black] scientists” and “took 15 billion dollars in gold at that time
to build it.” This gargantuan warship, “made of the toughest steel,” is “a
half mile by a half mile,” “is like a small human built planet,” and is like a
giant hangar, housing 1,500 smaller ships, each of which is equipped with
three “drill bombs.” “And the final act of destruction,” Farrakhan warns,
“will be that Allah will make a wall out of the atmosphere over and around
North America.” God will then “cut a shortage in gravity and a fire will start
from 13-layers up and burn down, burning the atmosphere.” America will
then “burn for 310 years and take 690 years to cool off.”49
All this might seem fanciful enough. Farrakhan, after all, was simply
elaborating on what Elijah Muhammad and Malcolm X had previously said.
But one gets the impression that Farrakhan may have completely bought
into the myth. In 1985, Farrakhan had a vision, in which he was actually
taken up in this heretofore imaginary spacecraft. Mattias Gardell describes
Farrakhan’s reported experience as follows:
In the vision, Farrakhan walked up a mountain to an Aztec temple
together with some companions. When he got to the top of the moun-
tain, a UFO appeared. Farrakhan immediately realized the importance of
the moment. . . . Farrakhan, feeling a bit afraid, asked his companions
to go with him but was corrected from the spacecraft: “Just you, brother
Farrakhan.” He walked and was placed next to the pilot. The spacecraft
took off with Farrakhan, who knew that the pilot was sent by God and
was to take him to the Mother Wheel. After being inside, he heard the
well-known voice of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad, which confirmed
his being alive. Farrakhan was authorized to lead his God-fearing people
through these latter days. The Messiah spoke many things and a scroll
full of divine cursive writing was rolled down inside Farrakhan’s head.
The spaceship shot out of the tunnel and the pilot took the plane up to
a terrific height and maneuvered the vehicle to allow Farrakhan to look
down on the wheel. He saw a city, a magnificent city, the New Jerusalem,
in the sky. Instead of going back to Mexico, the craft carried him with ter-
rific speed to Washington, DC, and dropped him off outside of the city. He
walked into the capital and delivered his announcement, the final warning
to the United States government.50
Louis Farrakhan was certainly not the only one to believe in the actual
existence of the Mother Wheel. Most Black Muslims, in fact, believed in
the reality of this fantastic spacecraft after Farrakhan’s verification of its
existence. According to Dr. Vibert White, Jr., author of Inside the Nation of
Islam, great excitement was generated in February 1984 on “Saviour’s Day,”
an annual NOI event when, in his speech, Louis Farrakhan spoke of his

Black Muslim Myths and Visions of America 223
personal experience of the Mother Plane. This ignited a wave of interest and
expectation throughout the Nation of Islam, as Dr. White further relates:
When the Nation’s ministers started to follow the lead of Farrakhan in
lecturing at length on the Mother Plane, members of the Nation became
possessed with the Mother Plane story. For instance, in Fruit of Islam
classes that were held in the basement of the Final Call building in Chi-
cago, a week did not pass before several brothers reported that they had
seen the Mother Plane. In fact, it was not unusual for members to stay
up all night looking and pointing out the Mother Plane. Strangely, as it
sounds now, I reported that not only did I see the Mother Plane but, also,
had a vision of the craft before observing it.51
This testimony shows how effectively this “technological monstros-
ity”52 had captured the imagination of Black Muslims. Note how Dr.
White’s “vision” of the Mother Plane preceded—and probably precondi-
tioned—his reported sighting of it. After the 1995 Million Man March,
however, Vibert White became increasingly disillusioned with Louis Far-
rakhan, and critical of the Nation of Islam. Eventually, Dr. White left the
Nation in 1996,53 having been a member for some 20 years. Two years
later, in October 1998, Dr. White embraced the Baha’i Faith, following
a presentation by the present writer in the Baha’i Center in Springfield,
Illinois.
As for Farrakhan himself, he apparently began to follow much the same
course as Warith Deen Mohammed, in finding his way to authentic Islam.
It just took Farrakhan a lot longer to do so. First diagnosed in 1991 with
prostate cancer, Farrakhan faced a crisis in his personal health that some say
may have precipitated a crisis of faith with respect to the teachings of his
preceptor and predecessor, Elijah Muhammad. Without actually renouncing
Elijah Muhammad’s teachings, Farrakhan took a decisive move in openly
committing himself to mainstream Islam. How sincere this move was is
still open to question.
Writing for the Religious News Service in 1999, Arthur J. Magida,
author of Prophet of Rage: A Life of Louis Farrakhan and His Nation, reported
that Farrakhan was rumored to have distanced himself away from Elijah
Muhammad’s teachings in favor of traditional Islam, and was steering the
NOI leadership in that same direction:
While there has been no public statement by Farrakhan that he is divorc-
ing himself from these central tenets of the Nation of Islam, he reportedly
told a closed-door meeting here of Nation of Islam ministers from around
the country in late January or early February that they should disregard
the “old teachings.”54

224 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
The far more public rapprochement came one year later. On Febru-
ary 25, 2000, during a Jumu’ah prayer service held at the McCormick
Center as part of the Nation of Islam’s Saviours’ Day 2000 celebra-
tion in Chicago, Farrakhan and Deen embraced in a symbolic show
of reconciliation.55 Notwithstanding Farrakhan’s show of solidarity
with traditional Islam, Warith Deen Mohammed remained critical of
the Nation of Islam. After his August 10, 2007, lecture at the Clinton
Presidential Library, W. D. Mohammed told the press: “The time for
those leaders who had that hate rhetoric has come and passed and they
know it.” He added: “For the last 10 years or more, they’ve just been
selling wolf tickets to the white race and having fun while they collect
money and have fancy lifestyles.”56 Warith Deen Mohammed passed
away on September 9, 2008.57
The Nation of Islam is significant in part because it gave so many African
Americans, whether Black Muslims or not, a renewed identity, and fired
them with new hope and resolve. Despite its inchoate racism and the inter-
nal corruption of the NOI itself, NOI rhetoric served as the voice of an
oppressed people, as a theology of liberation, and even as the conscience
of America itself. Before its recent reconciliation with traditional Islam, the
original message of the Nation of Islam was one of Black superiority and
White inferiority, a Black God in place of a White God, and Black Nation
to be set apart from any White nation.58 The Nation of Islam preached, and
continues to preach, a gospel of Black nationalism. In the Yacub Myth, the
NOI had formulated a negative theology of America, perhaps more aptly
described as a theodicy (explanation of the origins of evil and of “God’s jus-
tice”). Over time, the Yacub Myth had become an embarrassment for the
Nation. If not sheer madness, the myth was a social liability. Its ideology
of Black supremacy, which was once a bulwark against White supremacy,
ultimately became a barrier to interracial harmony. Over the years, though,
the social message of the NOI has softened considerably as the Nation of
Islam began to embrace traditional Islam.
As recently as February 24, 2008, Farrakhan said of a non-Muslim
candidate for the U.S. presidency, Senator Barack Obama: “A black man
with a white mother became a savior to us. . . . A black man with a white
mother could turn out to be one who can lift America from her fall.”59
This single statement implicitly marks the utter abrogation of the Yacub
Myth, for Obama cannot be a “savior” if his mother was a White “devil”! The
wider implications of Farrakhan’s endorsement of Senator Obama are
equally clear: The Nation of Islam has largely abandoned, although not
abnegated, its own religious myths of America, in favor of an egalitarian
vision of America. However, as Chapter 9 will demonstrate, Farrakhan
is still a firebrand of religious racism and anti-Semitism, although he is
quick to deny it.

Black Muslim Myths and Visions of America 225
Figure 9.2. Malcolm X, prominent Nation of Islam minister, at Martin Luther King press
conference on March 26, 1964. That same month, Malcolm X resigned his position in
the Nation of Islam and renounced Elijah Muhammad over the latter’s infidelities.
Later in 1964, having converted to Sunni Islam, Malcolm X went on pilgrimage
to Mecca, where he met “blonde-haired, blued-eyed men I could call my brothers.”
Meanwhile, FBI informants reported that Malcolm X was marked for assassination
by the Nation of Islam leadership. On February 21, 1965, Malcolm X was assassi-
nated onstage in Manhattan’s Audubon Ballroom.
(Public domain. Library of Congress. Photo by Marion S. Trikosko. See http://
www.loc.gov/pictures/item/2003688131/. Accessed January 12, 2015.)

226 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Chapter 9 Update: Separation, Not Integration
Beloved followers of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad under my leader-
ship: . . . Does not America need a messenger of God? . . . Elijah Muhammad
spoke to a specific people under a specific condition in a specific country
that needs to be guided and warned. . . . Master Fard Muhammad: I could
not dishonor The Work that He did by denying Him.
—Louis Farrakhan (2014)60
Louis Farrakhan has warned President Obama: America is in danger, from
a UFO.
Recently, the Honorable Minister Louis Farrakhan is less controversial.
But he is more outspoken. As if to crank up the volume, many more vid-
eos of Farrakhan’s speeches are now online than when this book was first
published in 2009. By far, Farrakhan’s most significant—and controver-
sial—recent pronouncements are his lecture series, “The Time and What
Must Be Done.” Videos and transcripts of these speeches, in 58 parts, are
immediately accessible online.61 Part 58 is quite a finale. It culminates not
only in a message to President Barack Obama, it also proclaims the divine
authority of Farrakhan himself.
“The Time and What Must Be Done” series is a mythological gold mine
of Black Muslim doctrines. In Part 41, “Guidance for Our President and Our
Nation,” Farrakhan announced: “Our world of Islam needs to be reformed!
And that reform will not be guided by those in the East, that Guidance for
reform of the Islamic world is coming out of the West—and we, The Nation
of Islam, are that Light!”62
By what authority does Farrakhan speak? The answer is simple: he is
empowered to speak with divine authority. Here’s how it works; this is the
flow of divine guidance: Farrakhan believes in the Prophet Muhammad. No
doubt about that. That makes him a Muslim, for sure—except for the fact that
Farrakhan does not acknowledge Muhammad to be the “Seal of the Proph-
ets.” That distinction, that title, properly belongs to Elijah Muhammad:
“The Seal of The Prophets” means it is an individual that is “sealed with
The Wisdom of God” that lets the world know that he is authentic. So
they, Jesus and Muhammad, prefigured The Coming of “The Great Mahdi”
and “The Great Messiah”: Master Fard Muhammad and The Honorable
Elijah Muhammad—who was given The Knowledge that Seals The Books;
The Scriptures!
I represent those Two Men!63
Problem: Farrakhan is not entirely consistent here. Earlier he stated:
Master Fard Muhammad: “The Mahdi” and “The Christ” are one and
the same. . . .

Black Muslim Myths and Visions of America 227
Master Fard Muhammad, Who is The Master of The Wheel . . .
“Allah came in the Person of Master W. Fard Muhammad.”64
Either way (whoever of the two is “The Great Messiah”), the “Seal of
the Prophets” is not Muhammad, but Elijah Muhammad. He is also fore-
told by the Prophet Muhammad. “Does not America need a messenger of
God?”65 Farrakhan asks rhetorically? The obvious answer (or the expected
response) is a resounding “Yes!” From this we gather that Elijah Muham-
mad is the Messenger of God to America: “Elijah Muhammad spoke to a
specific people under a specific condition in a specific country that needs to
be guided and warned.”66 Louis Farrakhan carries forward that divine mis-
sion to America. Another proof that Farrakhan is on a mission from God,
with a message to America, is that there is a sign in the sky, the Mother
Wheel.
This is no longer private discourse to be shared among Black Muslims,
who are advisedly discreet, circumspect, careful not to divulge this infor-
mation publicly. Private discourse is now public discourse. Farrakhan is a
public figure, and his outreach is impressive. Given his recent public disclo-
sures, with their extraordinary claims, it’s surprising that Farrakhan has not
attracted more public attention lately.
Farrakhan tweets. His audience is huge: 307,815 followers (as of Octo-
ber 7, 2014). His tweets are being rebranded as “The Twitter Sayings of the
Honorable Louis Farrakhan.” So it is no surprise that Farrakhan’s tweets
have taken on a canonical status as an extension of his teachings. To a cer-
tain extent, these tweets reveal how Farrakhan’s mind works in real Twitter
time.
His Twitter account tracks recent speeches and opinions. It also refreshes
old videos and articles. This mix of new and old uses the old to reinforce
the new. As a prostate cancer survivor, Farrakhan apparently has not mel-
lowed as much as might be expected. He continues to bask in the adoration
of his followers, and those charmed by his charisma. He is still a captivating
speaker. His oratorical skills are finely honed and tuned into the emotional
and attitudinal nerves of those receptive to his message.
The Honorable Elijah Muhammad is Alive Myth
One man’s myth may be another man’s reality. On October 7, 2014, Louis
Farrakhan tweeted: “I don’t represent a dead man! Not only is the Honorable
Elijah Muhammad alive and well, he is in power now.”67 This is important.
Not so much because it keeps the memory of Elijah Muhammad alive—by
claiming that he is, in fact, alive and well and in control. That Elijah Muham-
mad is alive bolsters Farrakhan’s own authority. He receives his messages
from a messenger of God. As the chosen representative, Farrakhan delivers
speeches and statements that may be considered to be messages from God.

228 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
in other words, Farrakhan speaks with prophetic authority. He has someone
to be reckoned with. His messages should not be dismissed lightly. To do so
would be at America’s peril.
Farrakhan continues to speak with prophetic thunder. He is, after all, a
thunderbolt from heaven. The “Seal of the Prophets” (Elijah Muhammad)
has sent him. Farrakhan receives his orders from above. He continues to
represent Elijah Muhammad, who is still alive—still powerful, still in con-
trol—who rides in a spaceship in outer space, and threatens America with
destruction in the name of divine retribution for its racism.
The Mother Wheel Myth
The Mother Wheel Myth is the Nation of Islam’s most central and vital
myth, according to Stephen C. Finley: “The Wheel, and its adjectival modifier
‘Mother’ is central to understanding cosmology in Farrakhan’s NOI.” And
further: “Louis Farrakhan’s visionary experience of being carried onto the
Mother Wheel—an unidentified flying object to the world outside the Nation
of Islam (NOl)—was the most significant religious event of his life.”68 On
Saturday, February 15, 2014, the Honorable Minister Louis Farrakhan aired
the series finale (Part 58) of his year-long lecture series, “The Time and What
Must Be Done.” In this final broadcast, Farrakhan reaffirms the reality of the
Mother Wheel, and calls upon President Barack Obama to open up Area 51
in order to reveal this massive UFO—God’s “Calling Card”:
President Obama: Let’s open up Roswell! Summon the scientists from all
over the world to America under your auspices, and you go with them—
along with Presidents Carter, Clinton, and with President Bush “41” and
Bush “43,” and look at what Allah sent to you, and study it!
And if you think there can be a better world from the knowledge that
Allah (God) introduced for us to use—why, that was like a man coming to
you, giving you his card, and giving you his address and telephone num-
ber, saying, “If you’d like to reach me, just call me.”
Well, Allah (God) says: “I am sending you a Wheel—a few of them—as
‘My Calling Card’.” . . .
Who is behind this Wheel? It is Allah (God) Who is introducing Himself
to you, America. That He is present, now, and He comes to take over the rule
of the planet and its people; and He is offering you a place, if you submit! But
if you fight Him, then you cause Him to use the Awesome Power that He
has to remove you totally, completely, irreversibly from the face of the Earth.
Rulers of America: It’s your choice. I say this as The Servant of The
Great Mahdi and The Great Messiah that is representing this to you. . . .
I am from that Wheel, and They Who are on that Wheel are my Guides
and my Support! . . . My dear brother, President Obama: You can, from

Black Muslim Myths and Visions of America 229
your high office, help America to save herself, and the American people,
from The Wrath of God. . . . 69
The Mother Wheel Myth is alive and well, as of 2014. Louis Farrakhan
should know. He was transported to the Mother Wheel. He now serves
as the emissary of the “Great Mahdi” (Master Fard Muhammad) and the
“Great Messiah” (the Honorable Elijah Muhammad). This myth implicates
the Destruction of America Myth.
The Yacub Myth
The problem with America is that it has been dominated by the White
race. A renegade Black scientist, Yakub (a.k.a. Yacub, Yacoub, Jacob), was
responsible for creating the White race. In his lecture, “How Satan Came
Into Existence” (Part 28), Farrakhan, by quoting his mentor, Elijah Muham-
mad, effectively recycles and reinvigorates a myth that purports to explain
the creation of the White race as a result of selective breeding of recessive
genes:
The History of Yakub and The Origin of his “Made Man” . . .
[Yakub] “learned, from studying the germ of the black man, under the
microscope, that there were two people in him, and that one was Black,
the other [was] brown. He said if he could successfully separate the one
from the other, he could graft the brown germ into its last stage, which
would be white.”70
Judging from the title of this highly mythic sermon, the “Satan” that
“came into existence” was the White race. The White race is about to be
judged. America is about to be destroyed.
The Destruction of America Myth
In the final sermon of the “The Time and What Must Be Done” series, Far-
rakhan does not mince words as to the real danger and imminent threat that
America faces:
As the God of Ezekiel, Moses, Jesus, Prophet Muhammad, I, too, am backed
by the same God Who backed the Honorable Elijah Muhammad. . . .
Who is behind this Wheel? It is Allah (God) Who is introducing Him-
self to you, America. . . . But if you fight Him, then you cause Him to use
the Awesome Power that He has to remove you totally, completely, irre-
versibly from the face of the Earth.71

230 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
This dire fate, however, may be averted.
Vision Of A Black Homeland
Integration won’t work. Independence will.
One way that America can avert destruction by divine retribution is to
give the Black man his due by way of reparations. Granting land to serve as
a Black homeland, with continued support by the American government,
would do the trick. This demand is reiterated in every single issue of The
Final Call newspaper, which is the official organ of the Nation of Islam. Far-
rakhan recently reminded the public, as well as his Black Muslim audience,
of this long-standing call for reparations:
So, you are “separate,” but very, very unequal. . . . So now, your desire is
to integrate into the major colonial power—not completely separate from
them? . . .
This brings us back to the words of the Honorable Elijah Muhammad
in “Point No. 4” of The Muslim Program that appears on the back page
of each edition of The Final Call newspaper: We should separate; that
America should look after us “in a separate state or territory for the next
20 to 25 years, until we are able to produce our own needs.” . . .
And you, America, should help us: . . . And then let our people have a
vote as to whether they wish to form a nation of their own. . . .
And if they offer you anything, look carefully into it, lest The Nation
will no longer be tied to the principles that the Honorable Elijah Muham-
mad desired for us:
To make us an independent nation on some of this Earth that we can
call our own.72
This sounds like Farrakhan is advocating that the U.S. government
should hold a referendum in which African-Americans would be offered
the choice to form “a separate state or territory”73 that would function
as “an independent nation.”74 Here, Farrakhan is putting all his cards
on the table: America can give Black people their own homeland, or face
destruction. That’s Farrakhan’s message to President Barack Obama and
the American nation.
These “principles” operate as ongoing demands. How seriously and
forcefully Farrakhan will continue to press these demands remains to be
seen. Make no mistake about these demands. They are clear and forceful:
“We must be separated from our former slave masters, and we must by
the order of Allah (God) become an independent nation.”75 By pressing a
distinction between “independence” and “integration,” the Honorable Min-
ister Louis Farrakhan may be creating a false dichotomy.

Black Muslim Myths and Visions of America 231
Conclusion
Farrakhan’s comments on current events keep him relevant. His opinions
on the news are potentially newsworthy in themselves. Yet there has been
little reporting of Farrakhan’s recent opinions. He is now sidelined. The
national notoriety that Farrakhan once enjoyed is on the wane. Even though
he is in fine form as a speaker, Farrakhan has not reinvented himself, judg-
ing by the fact that he recycles the old Black Muslim myths, which become
more and more outdated over time, as fewer are willing to suspend their
disbelief in the colorful and fantastic mythology that animates the Nation
of Islam’s Black Nationalist ideology. Farrakhan continues to recycle myths
that many consider to be as dysfunctional as they are improbable.
If this analysis has merit, it may be all the more reason why Farrakhan
is broadcasting his claim to divine authority: “I am directly from The Christ
and The Messiah!”76 The Prophet Muhammad, as well as the holy Qur’an,
are still relevant. They are edifying. But Farrakhan’s primary message is to
America. In the final analysis, Farrakhan’s mission is not so much about
Islam as it is about reparations. But the quest for a separate homeland is a
mission impossible.
Farrakhan warns that integration is colonizing in disguise. The former
slave masters have created a system that will continue to repress Black
people:
“Separation,” a familiar concept to America that now must be applied to
The Black Nation.
We believe in “separation.” We believe that integration is a hypocritical
trick to make us think that our 400-year-old enemy has all of a sudden
become our “friend.” They’ll let you into the bedroom, and keep you right
at the door of the boardroom.77
African Americans require land. They need capital. They must start pro-
ducing. Ideally, they should form a separate community. They should be
self-sufficient. All the while, such an enterprise should be carried out under
the divine guidance of Farrakhan, who is empowered by Allah to guide
Black Muslims. He is on friendly terms with Muslim leaders. But they are
the leaders of other Muslims, while Farrakhan continues to lead Black Mus-
lims. For how much longer, it’s hard to say.
The Nation of Islam’s myths and visions of America have a certain inter-
connected “logic” that makes sense internally, if one is ready to accept
these, lock, stock and barrel. There is no independent survey, at least that
the present writer is aware of, that measures to what extent Black Muslims
really believe in Yakub, in the Mother Wheel, and in all the related phenom-
ena that Louis Farrakhan is reporting, especially as a message to President
Barack Obama in the finale of “The Time and What Must Be Done” series.

232 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
That series of 58 sermons offers a rich mine for present and future
research on the Nation of Islam. The series serves as a recapitulation of
all prior messages, sermons, and writings of Elijah Muhammad, as well as
of Farrakhan himself. This primary source material opens up windows of
insights into the ideology and agenda of the Nation of Islam in an unprec-
edented way. It is up to others to judge whether or not the Nation of Islam
has been represented fairly in this chapter.
Notes

1. Louis Farrakhan, “A Vision for America.” A Torchlight for America (1993). See
http://www.finalcall.com/artman/publish/article_4851.shtml. (Accessed
October 19, 2014.)

2. Louis Farrakhan, “The Divine Destruction of America: Can She Avert
It?” Speech delivered by the Honorable Louis Farrakhan, June 9, 1996,
at Mosque Maryam in Chicago. Final Call News (1996). See http://www.
finalcall.com/artman/publish/Minister_Louis_Farrakhan_9/article_7595.
shtml. (Accessed November 10, 2014.)

3. Sophia Tareen, “A Spry Farrakhan Sings Obama’s Praises.” Associated
Press, February 24, 2008.

4. Michael Lieb, “‘Above Top Secret’: The Nation of Islam and the Advent of
the ‘Mother Plane’.” Criterion 43.1 (2004): 2–11, 38.

5. Kelefa Sanneh, “The Secret Doctrine: A Conversation with Killah Priest.”
Transition 74 (1997): 162–182.

6. Ibid., 173–174.

7. Killah Priest, “Madness.” From the album, Priesthood (Babygrande Records,
2005).

8. Malcolm X, “Black Man’s History.” The End of White-World Supremacy: Four
Speeches by Malcolm X. Ed. Benjamin Karim (New York: Little, Brown, 1971),
24.

9. Farrakhan’s recording of “A White Man’s Heaven Is a Black Man’s Hell” is
available online as a You Tube video. A rap by the same title was recorded
by the musical group, Public Enemy, on their CD, Muse Sick N Hour Mess
Age, but is not Farrakhan’s song.

10. Qtd. in Louis A. DeCaro, Malcolm and the Cross: The Nation of Islam, Malcolm
X, and Christianity (New York/London: New York University Press, 1998),
29.

11. Qtd. in Louis A. DeCaro, Malcolm and the Cross, 25.

12. Qtd. in Louis A. DeCaro, Malcolm and the Cross, 26.

13. Malcolm X, “There’s a Worldwide Revolution Going On.” Malcolm X: The
Last Speeches. Ed. Bruce Perry (New York: Pathfinder Press, 1989), 123.

14. Terrill, Robert E. “Protest, Prophecy, and Prudence in the Rhetoric of Mal-
colm X.” Rhetoric and Public Affairs 4.1 (2001): 25–53 [41].

15. Malcolm X, “Black Man’s History.” The End of White-World Supremacy: Four
Speeches by Malcolm X. Ed. Benjamin Karim (New York: Little, Brown, 1971).

16. Ibid., 42.

17. Ibid., 44.

Black Muslim Myths and Visions of America 233

18. Ibid., 55.

19. Ibid., 56.

20. Ibid., 56.

21. Ibid., 56.

22. Ibid., 57.

23. Ibid., 57.

24. Ibid., 61.

25. Ibid., 63.

26. Ibid., 51.

27. Elijah Muhammad, Chapter 127: “The Battle in the Sky.” Message to the
Blackman in America (Bensenville, IL: Lushena Books, 2000 [1965]), 294.

28. Michael Lieb, “Armageddon and the Final Call.” Children of Ezekiel: Aliens,
UFOs, the Crisis of Race, and the Advent of End Time (Durham/London: Duke
University Press, 1998), 198–229; 293–298.

29. Mattias Gardell, In the Name of Elijah Muhammad: Louis Farrakhan and the
Nation of Islam (Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 1996), 153.

30. Ibid., 164.

31. Ibid., 164.

32. Claude Andrew Clegg III, An Original Man: The Life and Times of Elijah Muham-
mad (New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1997), 66.

33. Elijah Muhammad, “The Mother Plane.”

34. Ibid.

35. Ibid.

36. Clegg, An Original Man, 64.

37. Ibid., 64.

38. Ibid., 66.

39. Ibid., 67.

40. Ibid., 67.

41. Malcolm X, “God’s Judgement of America.” The End of White World Suprem-
acy. Ed. Imam B. Karim (New York: Seaver Books, 1971): 121–148; Mattias
Gardell, “Countdown to Armageddon: Minister Farrakhan and the Nation
of Islam in the Latter Days.” Temenos 31 (1995): 253–262.

42. Ibid. (emphasis added).

43. FBI Surveillance file, March 16, 1954. Qtd. in Wayne Taylor, “Premillen-
nium Tension: Malcolm X and the Eschatology of the Nation of Islam.”
Souls 7.1 (Winter 2005): 52–65 [63].

44. FBI Surveillance file, May 23, 1955. Qtd. in Taylor, “Premillennium Ten-
sion,” 64.

45. Taylor, “Premillennium Tension,” 64.

46. Ibid., 64.

47. Ibid., 64.

48. Lieb, “The Eschatology of the Mother Plane.” Children of Ezekiel, 155–177;
280–283.

49. Louis Farrakhan, “The Divine Destruction of America: Can She Avert It?”
Speech delivered at Mosque Maryam, Chicago, June 9, 1996 (Chicago: Final
Call Online Edition).

50. Gardell, In the Name of Elijah Muhammad, 132–133.

51. Vibert L. White, Inside the Nation of Islam: A Historical and Personal Testimony
by a Black Muslim (University Press of Florida, 2000).

234 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America

52. Clegg, An Original Man, 65.

53. Tom Teague, “From Farrakhan to New Philadelphia: Vibert White Embraces
History at Every Crossroad.” Illinois Heritage 5.2 (March/April 2002): 6–10
[10].

54. Ron Carter, “Winds of Change Blowing Through the Nation of Islam.” Van-
tage Point (April 1999).

55. Warith Deen Mohammed, “A Message From: Imam Warith Deen Moham-
med” (February 25, 2000). The Final Call Online.

56. Anti-Defamation League, “Warith Deen Mohammed Condemns the Nation
of Islam” (August 14, 2007).

57. Associated Press, “Former Nation of Islam Leader Dies.” USA Today (Sep-
tember 9, 2008).

58. Michael Lieb, “Heralding the Messenger.” Children of Ezekiel: Aliens, UFOs,
the Crisis of Race, and the Advent of End Time (Durham/London: Duke Univer-
sity Press, 1998), 129–154; 270–280.

59. Sophia Tareen, “A Spry Farrakhan Sings Obama’s Praises.” Associated
Press, February 24, 2008.

60. Louis Farrakhan, “Uniting Our Ummah.” (July 28, 2014.) See http://
www.finalcall.com/artman/publish/Minister_Louis_Farrakhan_9/arti-
cle_101655.shtml. (Accessed November 23, 2014.)

61. Louis Farrakhan, “The Time And What Must Be Done: Officially tran-
scribed captions of The Honorable Minister Louis Farrakhan’s powerful
lecture series ‘The Time & What Must Be Done’.” See http://thetimetran-
scripts.blogspot.com/2014/. (Accessed November 2, 2014.)

62. Louis Farrakhan, “Guidance for Our President and Our Nation.” (Pre-
sented October 14, 2012, aired on October 19, 2013.) Part 41 of “The Time
and What Must Be Done” series. See http://thetimetranscripts.blogspot.
com/2013/10/part-41-guidance-for-our-president-and.html.
(Accessed
November 23, 2014.)

63. Louis Farrakhan, “The Shadow Government: Guidance To President
Obama & The Nation. Part III.” Part 58 of “The Time and What Must Be
Done” series. Broadcast February 15, 2014. See http://thetimetranscripts.
blogspot.com/2014/02/part-58.html (transcript) and http://www.you-
tube.com/watch?v=azW_Zp1vdIA (video). (Accessed November 2, 2014.)

64. Louis Farrakhan, “The Great, Life-Giving Wheel (‘Mother Plane’): ‘The
New Jerusalem’.” (January 18, 2014.) Part 54 of “The Time and What Must
Be Done” series. See http://thetimetranscripts.blogspot.com/2014/01/
part-54-wheel-new-jerusalem-part-1.html. (Accessed November 23, 2014.)

65. Louis Farrakhan, “Uniting Our Ummah.”

66. Louis Farrakhan, “Uniting Our Ummah.”

67. MINISTER FARRAKHAN (@LouisFarrakhan). October 7, 2014.
https://twitter.com/LouisFarrakhan/status/519490416219922432.

68. Stephen C. Finley, “The Meaning of Mother in Louis Farrakhan’s ‘Mother
Wheel’: Race, Gender, and Sexuality in the Cosmology of the Nation of
Islam’ UFO.” Journal of the American Academy of Religion 80.2 (June 2012):
434–465 (436).

69. Louis Farrakhan, “The Shadow Government: Guidance To President Obama
& The Nation. Part III.” Part 58 of “The Time and What Must Be Done”
series.

Black Muslim Myths and Visions of America 235

70. Louis Farrakhan, “How Satan Came Into Existence.” (Presented and aired
on July 20, 2013.) Part 41 of “The Time and What Must Be Done” series.
See http://thetimetranscripts.blogspot.com/2013/07/part-28-how-satan-
came-into-existence.html. (Accessed November 23, 2014.)

71. Louis Farrakhan, “The Shadow Government: Guidance To President Obama
& The Nation. Part III.” Part 58 of “The Time and What Must Be Done”
series.

72. Louis Farrakhan, “Separation, Independence!” (December 14, 2013.) Part
49 of “The Time and What Must Be Done” series. See http://thetimetran-
scripts.blogspot.com/2014/01/part-50-part-49-separation-independence.
html. (Accessed November 23, 2014.)

73. Farrakhan, “Separation, Independence!” (December 14, 2013.) Part 49 of
“The Time and What Must Be Done” series.

74. Farrakhan, “Separation, Independence!” (December 14, 2013.) Part 49 of
“The Time and What Must Be Done” series.

75. Louis Farrakhan, “Separation, Independence!” (December 7, 2013.) Part
48 of “The Time and What Must Be Done” series. See http://thetimetran-
scripts.blogspot.com/2013/12/part-48-separation-independence.html.
(Accessed November 23, 2014.)

76. Louis Farrakhan, “The Shadow Government: Guidance To President Obama
& The Nation. Part III.” Part 58 of “The Time and What Must Be Done”
series.

77. Louis Farrakhan, “Muhammad’s Economic Blueprint: Ending Poverty &
Want (Part 3)—How Blacks Became A Consumer Nation, What We Must
Do to Change and Why.” (Presented February 24, 2013; aired on August
17, 2013.) Part 32 of “The Time and What Must Be Done” series. See
http://thetimetranscripts.blogspot.com/2013/08/part-32-muhammads-
economic-blueprint.html. (Accessed November 23, 2014.)

Figure 10.1. Architecturally impressive, the Islamic Center of America, located in
Dearborn, Michigan (the unofficial capital of Arab Americans), is the largest mosque
in America. It is a Shi‘a, rather than a Sunni, Muslim institution.
(Photo by Dane Hillard, July 21, 2008. Permission by Creative Commons Attri-
bution 2.0 license, https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/legalcode. Black
& white version of color original.)

Chapter 10
Contemporary Muslim Myths
and Visions of America
Let the entire world hear me. Our hostility to the Great Satan [America]
is absolute. . . . I conclude my speech with the slogan that will continue to
reverberate on all occasions so that nobody will think that we have weak-
ened. Regardless of how the world has changed after 11 September, Death
to America will remain our reverberating and powerful slogan: Death to
America.
— Hassan Nasrallah (2002)1
A civil war is raging within the soul of Islam pitting radicals, along with
their terrorist offspring, against moderate Muslims who wish to embrace
modern democratic, social, and economic principles. The subjects of this
dispute are encapsulated by America. In effect, then, America has become
a party to that religious war.
— Hillel Fradkin (2004)2
In 2005, an African American Muslim was asked what it was like living in
post-9/11 America.
“It’s like being Black,” he replied, “Twice.”3
The terrorist attacks on the Twin Towers in New York on September
11, 2001, have cast a spotlight on the American Muslim community.4 The
pressures that American Muslims have come to experience are exacerbated
by anti-American sentiments voiced abroad by Radical Islamists, who may
be defined as “anyone who wants to govern a country in accordance with
the Shari‘a, Islamic law”5 and who resorts to terror or force to reassert
the Shari‘a. As a result of such anti-Americanism overseas and as a conse-
quence of Islamophobia (fear and loathing of Islam and Muslims) at home,
many American Muslims feel like they are on “trial” in both their public
and their private lives. To create a framework of social significance within
which to situate this entire discussion, consider the fact that the reciprocal

238 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
demonization between the United States and Iran impacts American Mus-
lims at home, who thereby experience the worst of two modes of prejudice:
religious and racial.
The problem of anti-Americanism abroad by radical Islamists is largely
one of religious nationalism. Nationalism and religion often combine to
form religious nationalism, as stated in Chapter 1. “Religious nationalism
is the fusion of nationalism and religion such that they are inseparable,”
according to Barbara-Ann J. Rieffer.6 “It is a community of religious peo-
ple or the political movement of a group of people heavily influenced by
religious beliefs who aspire to be politically self-determining.”7 The Pal-
estinians, Chechens, Filipino Moros, and Kashmiris are cases of religious
nationalism that arise in conjunction with liberation movements.8 Among
such groups, it is the religious nationalism of the Islamic Republic of Iran
that has generated the most salient and powerful religious myth of America
within the contemporary Muslim world. On January 29, 2002, U.S. Presi-
dent George W. Bush responded with his “State of the Union Address” in
which he vilified Iran as a cohort in the “Axis of Evil” that also includes
Iraq (under Saddam Hossein) and North Korea. Here is a classic case of
myth and counter-myth, in the context of reciprocal demonization. This
mutually reinforcing demonization has greatly exacerbated the problem of
Islamophobia in the United States, which perpetuates an unhealthy, even if
understandable, state of affairs with respect to interfaith relations and the
simple, everyday encounter of Muslims and non-Muslims in the streets of
American cities.
The “Great Satan” Myth
The first thing that comes to mind when the topics of “Islam” and “Amer-
ica” are brought together is the image of America as “the Great Satan” in
the eyes of Iran and elsewhere. For nearly three decades, Revolutionary Iran
has stigmatized the United States as “the Great Satan.” As the name sug-
gests, “Satan” is the archetypal principality of evil, both in Islam (where his
Qur’anic name is Iblis) and in Christianity (known also as Lucifer) alike.
Loathsome and odious, “the Great Satan” evokes contempt and outrage; use
of this name is meant to rally Muslims around a common enemy—America.
It was Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini—supreme leader of Revolution-
ary Iran, credited as the first “Islamist” government in the twentieth
century—who, on November 5, 1979, demonized America as “the Great
Satan, the wounded snake.”9 Russia was named the “Other Satan” and
Britain the “Little Satan.” Other countries in the West have been vari-
ously branded as Little Satans, as has Israel. “The use of the term Great
Satan was in fact a brilliant rhetorical device used by Khomeini to great
effect during the course of the hostage crisis,” writes William O. Beeman,
author of The “Great Satan” vs. the “Mad Mullahs”: How the United States and

Contemporary Muslim Myths and Visions of America 239
Iran Demonize Each Other.10 This is rhetorical essentialism at the height of
its evocative power.
Here, the demonization is quite literal: America is vilified as the great-
est of all demonic powers, Satan himself. “No image could be more deeply
evocative than the characterization of the United States as the Great Satan
by Iran,” Beeman adds.11 This inflammatory rhetoric articulated a powerful
myth of America that has swept across the Middle East and beyond. And
the image of America as “the Great Satan” is deeply embedded in anti-
American rhetoric. One year after the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks
on the World Trade Center in New York City, Hezbollah Leader Nasrallah,
on September 27, 2002, reignited the inflammatory rhetoric to keep the
fires of hate ablaze:
Let the entire world hear me. Our hostility to the Great Satan is abso-
lute. . . . I conclude my speech with the slogan that will continue to
reverberate on all occasions so that nobody will think that we have
weakened. Regardless of how the world has changed after 11 September,
“Death to America” will remain our reverberating and powerful slogan:
“Death to America.”12
The Great Satan myth is a national and transnational myth that gives
meaning and moment to Iranian anti-imperialism and Islamic radicalism.
It is important to situate the Great Satan myth in its historical context. In
1979, the Islamic Revolution of Iran overthrew Mohammad Reza Pahlavi,
who had ruled over Iran for over 35 years. From the early 1940s forward,
the Pahlavi regime attempted to reform Iranian society along Western lines.
The Shah of Iran established a civil service. He also instituted a national
bank based on the European model. This process of secularization and
Westernization proceeded apace, the Shah eventually replaced Islamic and
traditional courts with civil courts. In keeping with previous reforms, these
courts followed canons of Western jurisprudence. At a distance, in the view
of Western observers at least, these reforms were generally progressive, as
they were intended by the Shah to be.
The Shah’s progressive policies, however, were ultimately undone by his
repressive policies. To make matters worse, he was also seen as a puppet
of the West, since he was re-enthroned in August 1953 after the overthrow
of Premier Mohammad Mossadeq in a military coup, instigated by the
CIA under the code name “TP-AJAX” (or “Operation Ajax”)—an opera-
tion that entailed considerable covert U.S. financial and political support.13
The perception of the Shah as a stooge of the West was reinforced by his
frequent diplomatic visits with Presidents Nixon and Carter. To make mat-
ters worse, the Shah was seen not only to be repressive, but corrupt, as oil
revenues were diverted to the military, or directly to the Shah himself, and
away from the vast majority of Iranians, who otherwise stood to benefit
from oil revenues. For these and other reasons, the Shah’s western-style

240 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
reforms—particularly his programs promoting modernization and secular-
ization—had largely become ineffective by the 1970s. Significant sectors of
the Iranian population had already been alienated.14 Animosity toward the
Shah of Iran mounted, and that very discontent was a social resource that
could be exploited to its fullest. Regime change was in the offing. It would
prove inevitable.
Led by Ayatollah Khomeini, the 1979 Islamic Revolution of Iran was
effectively directed by Shi‘a clerics, who succeeded in mobilizing the masses
in public demonstrations calling for the downfall of the Shah. This anti-
Shah movement rejected the current regime’s authoritarianism, corruption,
maldistribution of wealth, and all-too-rapid westernization of Iran. The
national, social, and economic themes of the Revolution, as defined by
Khomeini himself, emphasized the importance of religious nationalism, of
social justice, of political participation, and of a return to Persian culture.
The grassroots religious national movement that Khomeini orchestrated
(and oversaw from Paris) demanded an end to corruption, the removal of
foreign influences, and respect for religious national identity. The massive
street demonstrations were ultimately successful and, in February 1979,
the Pahlavi dynasty collapsed. A popular referendum was held in March,
mandating a change from monarchy to an Islamic republic. By the end
of that year, a new constitution was drafted by a 75-member “Council of
Experts,” which was likewise ratified by a popular referendum.15 Khomeini
subsequently stigmatized America as “the Great Satan.”
In Persian (Farsi) the native expression is “Shaytán-i Buzurg.”16 In Arabic,
the Great Satan is “al-Shaytán al-Kabír.” This is the same name as the stele
popularly known as al-Shaytan al-Kabir, which is the buttress at Al-Muna,
where Muslims, as a pilgrimage ritual, stone Satan. What follows is the
celebrated 1855 account by Sir Richard Francis Burton (1821–1890) of this
Muslim ritual:
We were now to mount for “the Throwing,” as a preliminary to which we
washed “with seven waters” the seven pebbles brought from Muzdalifah,
and bound them in our Ihrams. Our first destination was the entrance
to the western end of the long line which composes the Muna village.
We found a swarming crowd in the narrow road opposite the “Jamrat
al-Akabah,” or, as it is vulgarly called, the Shaytan al-Kabir—the “Great
Devil.” . . . The “Shaytan al-Kabir” is a dwarf buttress of rude masonry,
about eight feet high by two and a half broad, placed against a rough wall
of stones at the Meccan entrance to Muna. As the ceremony of “Ramy,”
or Lapidation, must be performed on the first day by all pilgrims between
sunrise and sunset. . . .
The narrow space was crowded with pilgrims, all struggling like drown-
ing men to approach as near as possible to the Devil; it would have been
easy to run over the heads of the mass. . . . I had duly provided myself with
a hidden dagger. The precaution was not useless. Scarcely had my donkey

Contemporary Muslim Myths and Visions of America 241
entered the crowd than he was overthrown by a dromedary, and I found
myself under the stamping and roaring beast’s stomach. Avoiding being
trampled upon by a judicious use of the knife, I lost no time in escaping
from a place so ignobly dangerous. . . .
Finding an opening, we approached within about five cubits of the
place, and holding each stone between the thumb and the forefinger of
the right hand, we cast it at the pillar, exclaiming, “In the name of Allah,
and Allah is Almighty! (I do this) in Hatred of the Fiend [Satan] and to
his Shame.”17
Although Khomeini’s likely allusion to the Muslim ritual of stoning Satan
will be lost on most Americans, on closer examination, the implication is
obvious: As al-Shaytán al-Kabír incarnate, America (and Americans) should
be stoned. But what is the Islamic meaning of “stoning” here? While the
phrase, the “stoning of Satan,” resonates with Muslims generally, the ston-
ing of Satan does not parallel the stoning of the adulterer. In other words,
while the punishment for adultery in classical Islam is death by stoning
(since adultery is considered a capital offense), there is no legal issue here.
Rather, the stoning of Satan is a repudiation of Satan, not an attempt to kill
him (especially since he cannot be killed anyway).18 Thus, the force of the
rhetoric behind “the great Satan” is repudiation, not punishment.
In classical Islam, the fallen angel (or jinn) is known by two names in
the Qur’an, Iblís and Shaytán. Explaining the relationship between the two
names, Canadian Islamicist Andrew Rippin comments:
It is notable that the two names, Iblís and al-Shaytán, are used within the
same narrative (Q. 2:30-9; 7:11–25; 20:116–23) in such a manner as to
discount a simple blending of separate myths related to these two names;
rather, the narrative appears integrated and the change in name is best
interpreted to suggest that Iblís gained the name al-Shaytán after his disobe-
dience, which is how the Muslim tradition has frequently understood it.19
The connection between Satan and ritual stoning is suggested by the Qur’an
itself. When the first man, Adam, was created, God commanded that all of
the angels bow down before him. Adam, after all, was the pinnacle of God’s
creation—a marvel that should elicit the respect and admiration, indeed the
veneration, of the heavenly host. The angels obeyed God’s command—that
is, all except Iblís. Iblís refused (Q. 2:34; 7:11; 15:31; 17:61; 18:50; 20:116;
38:74-5), on the logical, but defective grounds that Adam was a creation
from mere clay and water (e.g., Q. 15:33: “I am not going to bow to man
whom You have created from clay of moulded mud”). In consequence of
this signal act of defiance, God then curses Iblís, calling him “accursed”
(rajím). The word “accursed” literally means “stoned” (Q. 15:34; 38:77),
being a transparent allusion to the rituals of the Islamic pilgrimage (hájj),20
as explained above. God then cast Satan out of heaven, much as he did

242 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
with Lucifer in Christian tradition. Thus, Lucifer and Iblís are Christian and
Islamic horns on the same diabolical head.
According to Andrew Rippin, classical Islam downplayed the figure of
Satan in favor of the fallen angel Iblís who, in some Sufi renditions, is the
perfect Muslim because he refused to bow down before anything other than
God. Iblís is an ambiguous figure but in making him so, classical Islam
avoided the Manichean tendency of Satan. Islam in modern times, however,
has moved towards the Satanic “other” in the face of the loss of Muslim
communal identity, the challenges of the postcolonial times, the rise of
the Wahhabi power with its emphasis on correct action. Thus, “the Great
Satan” needs to be seen within the moral framework of modern Islam, not
just the categories of conservatism.21
The genesis of “Great Satan” rhetoric can be traced back to Sayyid Qutb
(1906–1966). John Zimmerman underscores this ideological pedigree:
“The 11 September attacks cannot be understood fully without an under-
standing of the ideas of Sayyid Qutb, who is widely acknowledged as the
intellectual godfather for the various modern radical Islamic movements.”22
As the principal voice for the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt, Sayyid Qutb
is the great ideologue for Radical Islamism in general. Early in life, Qutb
had embraced Westernization, but reportedly grew disenchanted with it
after Israel became a state in 1948, and after experiencing, firsthand, anti-
Arab prejudice during his sojourn in the United States as a student in
1949–1951.23 With his trademark emphasis on Islamic morality and society,
Sayyid Qutb championed a return to “pure Islam,” unadulterated by what
he perceived to be the pernicious amorality of the West.
Qutb’s writings would later form the theoretical basis and philosophical
foundation for a number of Radical Islamist groups today. Indeed, Sayyid Qutb
is considered to be the intellectual preceptor of Osama bin Laden, leader of
al-Qaeda. In the case of al-Qaeda, in fact, the connection is direct: Sayyid
Qutb’s brother, Professor Muhammad Qutb, was a teacher and mentor to
the young Osama bin Laden. Qutb’s book, Ma’álim ‘ala Al-Tariq (Milestones [or
Signposts] on the Road, or Landmarks along the Way, 1964), was an instant best
seller and is widely recognized as one of the most influential Islamist tracts
ever written. In his book, The America I Have Seen (Amrika allati Raaytu), Qutb
registers this concession regarding the role of America in the world today:
America has a principal role in this world, in the realm of practical mat-
ters and scientific research, and in the field of organization, improvement,
production, and management. All that requires mind power and muscle
are where American genius shines, and all that requires spirit and emo-
tion are where American naiveté and primitiveness become apparent. For
humanity to be able to benefit from American genius they must add great
strength to the American strength. But humanity makes the gravest of
errors and risks losing its account of morals, if it makes America its exam-
ple in feelings and manners.24

Contemporary Muslim Myths and Visions of America 243
Notwithstanding this positive assessment of America from a material
standpoint, Sayyid Qutb found American society to be morally bankrupt.
Qutb held that contemporary societies, including America, were in a state
of Jahiliyyah. In classical Islam, Jahiliyyah (often translated as the “Age of
Ignorance”) referred to the pre-Islamic period prior to the advent of thePro-
phet Muhammad, founder of Islam, in the seventh century. Although Qutb
was not the first ideologue to apply the term to contemporary society,
the consequence of that pejorative view of the non-Muslim world is what
makes Qutb’s cultural critique of America and the West so radical, insofar
as “Qutb’s answer to the worldwide state of Jahiliyyah was jihad.”25
Jihad (Arabic for “struggle”) was primarily, although not exclusively,
interpreted by Qutb as holy war, which was “necessary to ‘establish God’s
authority on earth . . . to abolish all the Satanic forces and Satanic systems
of life’.”26 Note the rhetoric of Satan here, with reference to the West. The
transfer of this stock diabolical imagery to America by Khomeini was as pre-
dictable as it was inevitable. Qutb further clarifies his position on Islamic
jihad: “Those who recognize the nature of this religion . . . also recognize
that the active movement for Islam would have to begin with jihad by the
sword, in addition to jihad by teaching. They likewise recognize that this
jihad was not a defensive movement.”27 As for Qutb’s direct impact on al-
Qaeda, John Zimmerman concludes:
We may never know what the 19 Al-Qaeda hijackers of 11 September
2001 were thinking as they steered the airplanes toward the twin towers
of the World Trade Center, the Pentagon and an open field in Pennsylva-
nia. However, we can be certain that they were immersed in the ideas of
Sayyid Qutb.28
The Great Satan myth is an official rather than a populist creation,
although it enjoys widespread popular appeal. Notwithstanding, many Ira-
nians continue to be enamored of America in various ways. Taking a wider
perspective, the Great Satan myth, subsequent to Khomeini’s coining of
that invective, has been taken up by radical Islamists outside Iran as well
as within. The myth now belongs to the discourse of “Islamic fundamental-
ism,” also known as radical Islamism. Let us first define what is meant by
“radical Islamism” vis-à-vis contemporary Islam.
Islam is not monolithic. In other words, there is a diversity in Islamic
orientations. These orientations, in turn, have produced correspondingly
diverse discourses. In approaching modern Islam, the present writer has
refined a typology that accounts for the wide-ranging, often disparate, and
even conflicting attitudes towards the West that find ideological and politi-
cal expression throughout the Muslim world today. In this approach, the
author has taught students (Muslim students included) to clearly differenti-
ate among five Islamic “responses to modernity.” From “right to left,” so to
speak, they are the following: (1) Radical Islamism, (2) Traditionalism, (3)

244 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Neo-Traditionalism, (4) Modernism, (5) Secularism, (6) Postmodernism,
and (7) Post-Islamism. This typology is based on a fivefold schema devel-
oped by William Shepard.29 However, the present writer will describe these
terms in the ways in which they made most sense to students, with occa-
sional reference to a more recent typology advanced by Haroro J. Ingram.30
Wherever possible, relations back to the myth of the Great Satan will be
made by way of additional commentary.
Briefly, what is meant by “modernity”? Andrew Rippin characterizes
modernity cumulatively as “that which renders the past problematic.”31
Peter Berger’s five “dilemmas of modernity” include Abstraction, Futu-
rity, Individuation, Liberation, and Secularization. Similarly, Harvey Cox’s
“Five Pillars of Modernity” emphasize the roles of Nationalism, Technology,
Bureaucracy, Profit Maximalization, and Secularization. The core values of
modernity, now “global values,” derive in part from the individual values of
liberty, equality, and fraternity as espoused in the French Revolution, and
social values of progress and science-based rationality characteristic of the
Industrial Revolution.32 However one looks at modernity, this much is true:
as Rippin says, modernity poses a challenge to traditional religions gener-
ally. Their “responses to modernity” represent various coping strategies. In
the case of modern Islam, certain patterns emerge that the following typol-
ogy attempts for capture.
(1) Radical Islamism: Think of Islamist terrorists, principally al-Qaeda
and its affiliates, like the Taliban. Jemaah Islamiyah (responsible for the
Bali bombings of 2002), represents al-Qaeda’s Southeastern Asian affiliate,
not to mention the Moro Islamic Liberation Force. Among radical Islamists
today, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi and Ayman al-Zawahiri are the most noto-
rious. Also think of “Islamic fundamentalism.” These terms are roughly
equivalent. “Revolutionary radical Islamism,” states Andrew Rippin, is
“that fringe element which dominates the media picture of Islamic funda-
mentalism.”33 Radical Islamists are as peripheral as they are self-canonizing.
They do not represent mainstream Islam. Yet their influence outstrips their
relative numbers. As Gabriel Weimann, professor of communication at the
University of Haifa, Israel, has shown in his book, Terror on the Internet: The
New Arena, the New Challenges, some 4,800 terrorist websites, forums, and
chat rooms operate on the Internet today.34
“Radicals believe that selectively literalist interpretations of Islamic doc-
trine should play a crucial role in both the personal and collective spheres
as an all-encompassing framework for life,” Ingram observes. “For radicals,
Islam as a framework for life is incompatible with any secular ideology.”35
The radical Islamist goal is to establish shari‘a-ruled states—by force, if nec-
essary. The means justifies the end in this holy quest to reassert the Islamic
law code, or shari‘a, in order to bring about an Islamic theocracy.
Iranian support for radical Islamists is well-known. Besides Iranian fund-
ing of the Hesbollah, Iran’s backing of the Iraqi cleric Muqtada al-Sadr is a
known fact, despite Iran’s denials to the contrary. During a June 2003 visit

Contemporary Muslim Myths and Visions of America 245
to Iran, for instance, al-Sadr met with Expediency Council Chairman Aya-
tollah ‘Ali-Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani. During a January 2006 visit to Iran,
al-Sadr met with Iranian Foreign Minister Manuchehr Mottaki and Supreme
National Security Council secretary, Ali Larijani.36
“Also notable is the tendency to view things as opposing spheres,” Rip-
pin further explains, “for example, the Government of God versus the Great
Satan in Iranian propaganda.”37 Thus, “the Great Satan” myth of America
properly belongs to radical Islamist discourse. The implication here is that
the other Islamic responses to modernity are not as inclined—or may even
be disinclined—to refer to America as the Great Satan.
(2) Traditionalism: Traditionalists are known as “the People of the Way of
the Prophet and the Community [of Muslims]” (Ahl al-Sunna wa al-Jama‘a).
Think of the orthodox ulama (Muslim clerics). Their goal is to preserve the
status quo, as Rippin points out:
The Traditionalist group contains within it many of the learned scholars
(“ulama”) who might be thought to have a vested interest in maintain-
ing the status quo, . . . and the vast majority of those who have not been
exposed to modern education and thus to a great extent have not expe-
rienced the challenge of modernity to such a degree as to consider it a
personal problem.38
Traditionalist Muslims believe that whatever does not conform to the
Qur’an and the traditions of the Prophet Muhammad is, by definition, false.
Moreover, the Islamic precepts and praxis, as defined by the consensus of
the early generations of Muslim scholars, is binding for all Muslims. The
Qur’an and Tradition (hadíth), moreover, cannot be challenged by rational
reasoning. All Islamic laws are fixed and immutable.39 Traditionalists may
or may not sympathize with the radical Islamist view of America as the
Great Satan, but they tend not to be vocal about it.
(3) Neo-Traditionalism: Neo-Traditionalists are conservative Muslims
that can tolerate gradual change, while conserving the essentials of tra-
ditional Islam. Thus, they can accept the new with the old, but to a very
limited degree. “One trend within Traditionalism can be termed ‘Neo-tra-
ditionalism’,” Rippin writes. “This is a tendency which has been seen as a
transitional position from Traditionalism to any of the other groups.”40 “It
may be, however, that as a position it has its own inherent permanent pro-
tagonists,” Rippin adds. “Such a position . . . urges a gradual change, seeing
the advantage in certain elements of modern technology, for example, but
wanting to withstand the rush of the acceptance of it all.”41
(4) Modernism: Modernist Muslims see the need to adapt Islam to moder-
nity, but not to alter Islam’s basic character. Modernists allow for greater
change than do Neo-traditionalists. “Islamic modernism wants Islam to be
the basis for political life as well as the religious,” Rippin explains, “but it
perceives a need to reinterpret those structures in the light of contemporary

246 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
needs, frequently with a clear and unapologetic adoption of Western
notions.”42 This Islamic response to modernity sees itself as positive and
progressive. Just as the rest of the modern world has been undergoing pro-
found change, so also must Islam. Islam must keep pace with the social and
scientific revolutions that have come to define modernity. This does not,
however, entail a rejection of Islam, but simply an adaptation—a measured
readjustment of it: “In formal contrast to secularism, Islamic modernism
insists that Islam does provide an adequate ideological base for public life,”
writes Shepard.43 Ingram usefully adds that
modernists are defined not only by their belief that Islam does provide an
adequate basis for life, but that it is also compatible with secular ideologi-
cal perspectives. For example, modernists will characteristically claim that
Islamic principles are compatible with secular philosophies of democracy
and capitalism.44
Such proponents of Islamic modernism as Jamál al-Dín al-Afghání (1839–
97), Muhammad ‘Abduh (1849–1905), and Rashíd Ridá (1865–1935) in
Egypt, and Sayyid Ahmad Khán (1817–1898) and Muhammad Iqbál (1876–
1938) in India, were part of a movement that “displayed an affinity with
the Enlightenment, daring criticisms of the orthodoxy, re-examinations of
Islamic theology and its normative rules of conduct in light of the prevailing
scientific standards, and an orientation towards social reforms and political
moderation.”45 Islamic modernists are perhaps the most effective bulwark
against radical Islamists. As Bernard Lewis commented over a decade before
the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on the United States, the hope is
that moderate Islamic values will, over time, discredit the radical Islamist
agenda: “The movement nowadays called fundamentalism is not the only
Islamic tradition. There are others, more tolerant, more open, that helped
to inspire the great achievements of Islamic civilization in the past, and
we may hope that these other traditions will in time prevail.”46 The ten-
dency of Islamic Modernists is not to demonize America as the Great Satan,
even though they may still be very critical of America’s support for Israel
when the Palestinian question continues to be unresolved and the Palestin-
ian people continue to suffer as a consequence. “Modernism, then, differs
from secularism by the efforts it makes to find support in the Qur’an and
the sunna,” Rippin observes. “From the critic’s point of view, this method is
only ‘a cover for what secularists do more openly’.”47
(5) Secularism: Think of the Republic of Turkey. As Rippin implied, secu-
larists in Turkey did openly what some modernists might only contemplate
or do covertly. Ingram provides this simple definition: “Secularists believe
that there should be a separation between the realm of religion and poli-
tics. In other words, Islam should not act as a framework for shaping the
political sphere. For secularists the role of Islam should remain purely per-
sonal.”48 The Republic of Turkey, in its current bid to become a member of

Contemporary Muslim Myths and Visions of America 247
the European Union, would never dare to call America “the Great Satan.”
With its secular values, Turkey would never be so inclined, anyway, as Tur-
key and the United States have far more in common than whatever might
be a source of contention.
(6) Postmodernism: Think of radical Islamic feminism and Marxism. “Post-
modernism entails confrontation with the social issues of the day,” Rippin
states, “here conceived within a religious framework: feminism, peace and
war, minority expressions of theology, political stances, economics and
so forth.”49 To the extent that a Muslim views reality from any of these
frameworks apart from Islam, and does not accept an Islamic worldview
as primary, such a Muslim may be characterized as postmodernist. Admit-
tedly, this is a controversial category. Although this might seem to be an
oxymoron, a Muslim with a Marxist orientation would be a postmodernist
Muslim, by this definition. The term “the Great Satan” would therefore
have no real meaning.
(7) Post-Islamism: Think of the Baha’i Faith. Just as America is the great
ideological “other” from the perspective of radical Islamism, the Baha’i
Faith represents the great religious “other” from the perspective of ortho-
dox Islam, which classically views itself as the last “revealed” religion. This
is primarily because, as the “daughter religion of Islam,” the Baha’i Faith is
post-Islamic: “The Baha’i Faith has been described as a derivative (‘second-
ary’) monotheism in the sense that it is the daughter religion of Islam.”50
The religious precursor to the Baha’i Faith was the Bábí religion, which
had already effected a clear break from Islam. The Baha’i Faith is now the
youngest independent world religion.
The great flaw in most instances of religious nationalism is its tendency
to exclude and alienate others: “The exclusionary nature of religious nation-
alism often leads to violent conflict between religious groups,” comments
Barbara-Ann J. Rieffer. “Often, in the development of the religious national
identity, an ‘alien other’ is created or identified.”51 Nowhere has this been
truer than in the case of the Baha’is of Iran, who have been systematically
stigmatized and persecuted in their objectified role as the excluded “other.”
(The Baha’is will be discussed in Chapter 12, infra.) The case of the Baha’is
has lent considerable weight to Rieffer’s theory “that religious nationalism
frequently leads to discrimination, violence, human rights violations and
intolerant polities.”52 Iranian religious nationalism tends to exclude Ameri-
can Muslims as well.
These diverse Islamic orientations have generated a discursive pluralism
in the contemporary Muslim world. Today, the Islamic world lacks a cen-
tral authority. It was Kemal Ataturk who, in 1924, abolished the Caliphate,
which, for centuries, had operated as the supreme authority of Sunni Islam.
This is why there is no such thing as “the” Islamic myth of America. Even
so, while no definitive Islamic myth of America exists, what persists is the
radical Islamist myth of America as the Great Satan. Although the sevenfold
typology of Muslim responses to modernity, outlined above, is a scholarly

248 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
framework of analysis, it immediately demonstrates to the reader that there
is a spectrum of perspectives within the contemporary Muslim world. The
myth of America as the Great Satan is to be primarily located in the Radical
Islamist group.
There are disquieting indications that this demonization of the United
States will not go away soon. So long as the roots of the problem remain,
the Great Satan myth will perdure. In 2006, for instance, former Iranian
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad launched his own weblog, www.ahma-
dinejad.ir. There, in the course of criticizing America, he spoke of the “Great
Satan USA.”53 A visit to that site and a quick search verify the BBC report.
In his post of August 8, 2006, Ahmadinejad writes:
Although, right at the beginning of the movement of Imam Khomeini,
the type of Government Imam was seeking to establish was known to
everybody, however, Imam repeatedly laid great emphasis that everyone’s
opinion should be taken into consideration (by holding a referendum) for
the establishment of the type of new government in Iran. . . . This action
of Imam and vehement participation and positive reply to the establish-
ment of Islamic Republic by the Iranian nation, caused disappointment of
some of the political groups that were affiliated to great world powers. . . .
Although these terrorist groups are still under the protection and shame-
ful support of Great Satan USA, however, the slap that these groups have
received from the brave nation of Iran will never be forgotten by them.54
Evidently, President Ahmadinejad was careful to avoid that inflammatory
rhetoric in his subsequent blogs.
There is hope for the Great Satan—maybe. In 1993, the incumbent
president of Iran was Ali-Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani. When asked, “Should
the situation vis-a-vis the U.S. improve, will the descriptive ‘Great Satan’
disappear?” Rafsanjani replied: “If the U.S. does good, then it cannot be
considered to be Satan.”55 But then, in 2005, Iranian President Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad predicted that Britain, Israel, and the United States would, in
time, vanish from the face of the earth, like the Egyptian pharaonic kings:
“The oppressive powers will disappear while the Iranian people will stay.
Any power that is close to God will survive while the powers who are far
from God will disappear like the pharaohs.” To which he added, for empha-
sis: “It is a divine promise.”56
Other Iranian leaders, bent on maintaining some semblance of productive
diplomacy with the United States, try to press a distinction between Ameri-
can foreign policy and the American people. When, in 2006, Time magazine
asked Iran’s former president, Mohammad Khatami, “This is your first visit
to Washington. What do you think of the country that has been called the
Great Satan?”, Khatami’s response was “I never say ‘Great Satan.’ But I get
really upset when Iran is called part of the ‘Axis of Evil.’ Even [Ayatollah]

Contemporary Muslim Myths and Visions of America 249
Khomeini [who coined the phrase] was referring only to U.S. policies—not
to the American people or America itself, which is a great and big country.”57
Khatami is not the only one to get upset by Iran being branded as part of the
“Axis of Evil”—a slur that may be analyzed, partly, as America’s response to
the Radical Islamist myth of America as the Great Satan.
The “Axis of Evil” Counter-Myth
This process of demonization is reciprocal in that it engenders a reactionary
discourse. On January 29, 2002, President George W. Bush delivered his
“State of the Union Address.” The most poignant moment in that speech is
when Bush named Iran, Iraq, and North Korea as the “Axis of Evil”: “States
like these, and their terrorist allies, constitute an Axis of Evil, arming to
threaten the peace of the world.”58 One observer notes: “‘Axis’ evokes ‘our’
enemies of the Second World War, and it is a metonymy for Nazism and fas-
cism.”59 The original Axis was between Hitler’s Germany and Mussolini’s
Italy—such that Germany and Italy became “the Axis Powers”—with Japan
added later on.60 This rhetoric may be a faint echo of Ronald Reagan’s for-
mulation of “Evil Empire” to demonize the Soviet Union.61 This signature
phrase—this demonization by the world’s champion of freedom, America—
is a stigmatization that attaches as much to the citizens of the country from
which it originated (the United States) as to the citizens of the country at
which it is targeted (Iran, as well as Iraq and North Korea). It is interesting
to note that “Axis of Evil” was not President Bush’s creation alone. It was,
as it were, the product of the team effort, as explained by the following:
The phrase itself was constructed by David Frum, a White House speech
writer, who came up with “axis of hatred” to describe the linkage between
Iraq and terrorism. Frum’s boss, Michael Gerson, a self-described evan-
gelical Christian, changed the phrase to “Axis of Evil” to make it sound
“more sinister, even wicked.” Later Condoleezza Rice, President Bush’s
National Security Advisor, and Stephen Hadley, Deputy National Secu-
rity Advisor, suggested adding North Korea and Iran as part of the axis.
Hadley had second thoughts about adding Iran, because it had a demo-
cratically elected president, but Bush liked the idea of including Iran. “No,
the president said, “I want it in.” . . .
In the end, President Bush’s senior advisors thought that the “Axis
of Evil” was a signature phrase, “a declaration . . . that the country now
would have a great mission. It was big, new, and different.” Although
some doubted whether it would make sense to link the three countries,
the metaphor was regarded by the President’s advisors as a “watershed”
that would define the problem in “graphic, biblical terms without publicly
committing to a particular solution.”62

250 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Thus, it will come as some surprise to many Americans that it was actu-
ally Condoleezza Rice who first suggested adding Iran to the “Axis of Evil”
phrase. One would hardly have expected a former provost of Stanford Uni-
versity to have offered such a suggestion, which is quintessentially at odds
with the canons of academic discourse. The point here is neither to criticize
President Bush or Condoleezza Rice, but rather to focus on the “Axis of
Evil” rhetoric and its social impact. The reader should also know that the
present writer disclaims any intent here to implicate partisan politics, much
less to take a partisan stance. Rather, later in this chapter, the writer will
look at efforts by the U.S. government to counter its own demonization of
Iran in order to demonstrate sympathy, rather than antipathy, towards the
religion of Islam in general.
In any event, President Bush’s arrow quickly flew back at the archer.
Bush’s demonization of Iran foreclosed any remaining possibilities of pro-
ductive diplomacy for years to come, and diplomatic relations between the
two countries have yet to normalize. The “Axis of Evil” was rhetorically
effective, but served only to deepen the gulf that has separated America
and Iran and have generally made matters worse. In the three words of
that singular metaphor, Bush burned the diplomatic bridge, with the result
that Iran’s encounters with the United States (and with the West generally)
continue to be conflicted.
What is the effect on American Muslims of the “Axis of Evil” rhetoric? In
other words, what is its social impact domestically? In 2001, after pointing
out that Iranian anti-Americanism is politically orchestrated, while the pop-
ulace remains widely enamored of American popular culture, H. E. Chehabi
of Boston University observes that negative stereotypes of Iranians persist
in American popular thinking:
In America, by contrast, anti-Iranism is not government-sponsored and
is more diffuse, as many average Americans see Iranians as somehow
genetically programmed to burn the American flag and shout “Death to
America”, images indelibly burned into American minds and perceptions
by the television pictures of the hostage crisis.63
While the type of Islam practiced in Iran is that of the minority “Shi‘a”
Islam (as opposed to the mainstream “Sunni” Islam), Iran’s institution-
alization and expression of Shi‘a Islam has come to represent Islam as a
whole in the popular imagination of Americans.
The “Axis of Evil” rhetoric may have resonated with some evangelical
Christians, who characteristically (with significant exceptions, of course)
view the world in such polarities—a world enchanted by principalities of
good and evil. That is the “Evil” prong of the metaphor. Religiously speak-
ing, the idea of “evil” tends to cut more deeply. To call someone or to label
something as “evil,” in an Iranian context at least, cuts to the quick of reli-
gious sensibilities. Arguably, this renders the rhetoric all the more effective,

Contemporary Muslim Myths and Visions of America 251
but sometimes in unexpected or in undesirable ways, as G. Matthew Bon-
ham and Daniel Heradstveit conclude:
The main mistake of this metaphor is that it targets entire countries, not
their leaders. It does not differentiate between the evil leaders and the
others who live in the country. The reformers, for example, did not want
to be viewed as evil, but the metaphor painted them with the same brush
of evil. This must be resisted by joining with the conservatives and rally-
ing around the government. In other words, the metaphor mobilized the
entire country.64
In other words, the “Axis of Evil” metaphor further radicalized Iran,
arguably reversing the former gains made by Iranian moderates and reform-
ers, thereby exacerbating destabilization in the region. The future can only
tell whether the force of such rhetoric will soon spend its force, or whether
it will pave the way for drastic, unilateral measures to come. Bonham and
Heradstveit characterize the “Axis of Evil” metaphor as pretextual for legiti-
mizing, carte blanche, all policy options: “As a rhetorical device, the ‘Axis
of Evil’ exploits both the history of the Second World War (as a metonym
for fascism, involving memories of disastrous appeasement) and religious
eschatology (with its implication that We are on the side of Good and so
can do anything we like).”65 The difference here is that “the Great Satan”
is not a principality, but rather a country, that is, America. Conversely, the
reciprocal difference inheres in the fact that the “Axis of Evil,” while tar-
geted at three nations rather than at three principalities, taints Iranians
(and, by extension, Muslims generally), as a consequence of Iran’s inclu-
sion as one of the three of adamantine tines of this rhetorical trident. To its
credit, however, the U.S. government has gone to great lengths to reverse
this unfortunate outcome by reaching out to Muslims.
Efforts to Dispel the “Great Satan” Myth and to
Minimize the Fallout from the “Axis of Evil” Myth
Islam is now America’s third-largest religion and, within a decade from now,
may surpass the number of American Jews. American Muslims are here to
stay, and are part and parcel of the American social fabric. Can the perspec-
tives of American Muslims on America be determined? Ingrid Mattson’s
study, “How Muslims Use Islamic Paradigms to Define America,” is sugges-
tive for Islamic myths of America in general: “Muslims need to define not
only Islam but also America. Muslims need to place America in its proper
theological and legal category so they can determine what kind of relation-
ship is possible and desirable for them to have with this country.”66 As
the Council on American-Islamic Relations observes, “American Muslims
have deep appreciation and love for America just as they have empathy and

252 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
understanding of the Muslim world.”67 American Muslims should therefore
be seen as an asset to America, and may even, if called upon to do so, play a
critical role in diplomatic relations between America and Muslim countries
abroad: “Thus American Muslims can serve as the perfect bridge between
America and the Muslim world. To enable this aspiration, American policy
makers need to constructively engage American Muslims.”68 Was the U.S.
Department of State perhaps deaf to this sage advice? How many American
Muslims were not recruited for such diplomatic missions?
The U.S. Department of State has, in fact, experimented with reaching
out to Muslims to dispel the myth of America as anti-Muslim and as the
Great Satan. On February 14, 2002, U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell
appeared on MTV. MTV held an international forum, entitled, “Be Heard: An
MTV Global Discussion with Colin Powell.” Young people from the United
States, India, the Middle East, Italy, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Brazil,
and Russia were given the opportunity to ask provocative questions, live via
satellite. One forum participant, from a studio in London, asked Powell how
he felt “about representing a country commonly perceived as the Satan of
contemporary politics.”69 Secretary Powell replied: “So, far from being the
Great Satan, I would say that we are the Great Protector. We have sent men
and women from the armed forces of the United States to other parts of the
world throughout the past century to put down oppression.”70
American public diplomacy, with a large budget from the public treasury,
targeted the Middle East and the wider Muslim world beginning in 2002.
On October 31, 2002, Charles Dolan, vice-chairman of the bipartisan U.S.
Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy, told the Public Relations Soci-
ety of America in Washington, D.C., that a wide-scale public relations effort
was underway to dispel the Muslim myth of America as the Great Satan
through initiating a “dialogue with the press and public” in order “to dispel
the negative myth of America as anti-Muslim.”71 This American outreach
to the wider Muslim world was orchestrated by the Broadcasting Board
of Governors (BBG), an organization of U.S. international broadcasters.
Pursuant to the 1998 Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring Act (Pub-
lic Law 105-277), on October 1, 1999, the BBG became the independent
federal agency responsible for all federally sponsored, nonmilitary, interna-
tional broadcasting.72 The BBG oversees the Voice of America (VOA), Radio
Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL), Radio Free Asia (RFA), Radio and
TV Marti (OCB), and Middle East Broadcasting Networks (MBN), with the
assistance of the International Broadcasting Bureau (IBB). This public rela-
tions campaign operated under a five-year plan, from 2002 through 2007, at
which time the following assessment was made:
Under the 2002–2007 strategic plan, the BBG took significant steps
toward this goal. We launched, among many other smaller initiatives,
24/7 broadcasting valued at more than $100 million annually for Iran
(expanded VOA TV and Radio Farda), the Middle East (Al-Hurra TV and

Contemporary Muslim Myths and Visions of America 253
Radio Sawa), and Afghanistan (RFE/RL’s Dari and Pashto, then meshed
with VOA’s Dari and Pashto in a coordinated programming stream), and
Pakistan (Aap ki Dunyaa and BTH). These initiatives have gained us some
40 million additional weekly listeners and viewers, boosting the BBG’s
global audience from 100 to 140 million weekly.73
Despite continued jamming by Iranian authorities, Radio Farda is said to
be reaching its target audience of younger listeners in Iran. To this day, the
campaign continues.
Four years earlier, on February 14, 2004, the BBG launched Al-Hurra
(Arabic for “the free one”) Television, covering 22 countries in the Middle
East via the same satellites used by major indigenous Arabic channels. The
official website of Al-Hurra Television is http://www.alhurra.com. Another
part of America’s public relations outreach to the Muslim world is Radio
Sawa, a 24/7 network of stations targeting a large segment of the Arabic-
speaking population under the age of 35. Radio Sawa went on the air in
March 2002. Today, Radio Sawa broadcasts on medium wave to Egypt,
Yemen, Saudi Arabia, and Sudan, and on FM in Iraq (Baghdad, Nasiriya,
Basra, Mosul, Kirkuk, Sulimaniya, and Erbil), the Palestinian Territories
(Ramallah and Jenin), Lebanon (Beirut, North Lebanon, South Lebanon,
and Bekaa Valley), Morocco (Rabat, Casablanca, Tangier, Meknes, Mar-
rakesh, Agadir, and Fes), Jordan (Amman and Ajlun), Kuwait (Kuwait City),
Bahrain (Manama), Qatar (Doha), U.A.E. (Abu Dhabi and Dubai), and Dji-
bouti.74 Radio Sawa’s website may be accessed at http://www.radiosawa.
com, with the English version at http://www.radiosawa.com/english.aspx.
With the exception of one failed program, called the “Shared Values
Initiative,” the present writer has not been able to find an independent
assessment of the relative effectiveness of this public relations outreach to
Muslims abroad. In 2003, Christopher Ross, special coordinator for Public
Diplomacy, commented on the challenge that the U.S. government faced:
“The gap between who we are and how we wish to be seen, and how we
are in fact seen, is frighteningly wide.”75 (This quote is usually attributed
to Charlotte Beers, under secretary of state for Public Diplomacy and Pub-
lic Affairs, who testified before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee
on February 27, 2003.) The United States continues to face this daunting
challenge. The American government’s intellectual weapons in the war of
ideas, entailing considerable U.S. public diplomacy expenditures, may be a
valiant battle that, so far, has yet to win any significant victories. Yet public
diplomacy continues apace.
The two concepts—“the Great Satan” and the “Axis of Evil”—are symbi-
otic in that they feed each other. This reinforcing of mutual demonization
demonstrates the grim reality that religious symbols play in modern politi-
cal rhetoric. While the “Axis of Evil” is not of Iran (and, by extension, of
Islam) alone, it does show how effectively this demonization of the “other”
is part and parcel of the larger religious myth of Islam as played out in

254 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
America—that is, Muslims have been, and continue to be, defined by being
part of the Axis of Evil. It is the myth that they ineluctably inhabit, even
if it is not their own creation. The “Axis of Evil” metaphor had the result,
even if unintended, of aggravating Islamophobia within the United States.76
The stirring up of this hornet’s nest invites a broader comment regard-
ing the problem of Islamophobia in general. Islamophobia is a neologism
for anything and everything anti-Islamic or anti-Muslim. The branding of
America as “the Great Satan” and the reciprocal stigmatizing of Iran in par-
ticular, and of Islam in general, as the “Axis of Evil” has had a synergizing
effect. The two metaphors, in fact, are parasitic.
It is clear that the Great Satan myth of America had a considerable impact
on international relations. But what impact did the Great Satan myth have
at home? What was the impact of that myth on American Muslims? Imag-
ine: how would it feel to be a Muslim living in America and to be tarred
by that same brush? Fachrizal Halim has characterized the impact as the
escalation of hatred towards Muslims:
Indeed, the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001 have pushed Mus-
lims into a more difficult situation, as hatred toward them has intensified.
Although the events of the terrorist attacks made a significant change
in how non-Muslims differentiate between actual Muslims and those
groups which use Islam as a political symbol, the same event has had an
unpredictable effect on Muslim communities in America. Muslims in this
situation have made the difficult choice to be more mature in this unprec-
edented situation.77
An equally penetrating question is one that has been raised by Ameri-
cans who are not Muslim: Why was there no outright denial of the Great
Satan myth, no distancing from it, no rousing patriotic reaffirmation of
American values, no significant social commentary or high-profile editorial
by those who speak for American Muslims, as a collective American Muslim
response to Khomeini’s evil epithet? Was the relative silence by American
Muslims to be understood as tacit acknowledgement that what Khomeini
said might have had some appreciable truth to it? The answer is that Ameri-
can Muslim leaders did, in fact, go out of their way to register their loyalty
to both Islam and America. One recent example of this is a commentary by
Imam Luqman Ahmad, a free-lance writer, a lecturer, an African American
Muslim, and an Imam of Masjid Ibrahim Islamic Center, a masjid (mosque)
in Sacramento, California. In a thought-provoking piece entitled, “Islam
American Style,” Sheikh Luqman writes:
Since the tragic events of September 11th, Muslims in America have been
expressing their patriotism and Americanism to more varying degrees
than in the past. Virtually every Muslim organization and community has
not failed to make others aware of or to tout their Americanness. And

Contemporary Muslim Myths and Visions of America 255
rightfully so. . . . We’ve been told that America is the great Satan. Well I’ve
got news for you. The Shaitaan (Devil) is an equal opportunity deceiver;
he respects no borders, color, nationality or even religion. Yes, it is true
that Shaitaan [Satan] is busy in America but he’s busy elsewhere as well.
Yet, all of the forces of the devil did not stop the athaan (Muslim call to
prayer) from being called from Sarasota Florida, to Sacramento Califor-
nia. That’s America. When the hijab [head scarf for Muslim women] was
banned in France, Turkey and on Public Television news in Egypt, it still
prevailed in America. That alone deserves a hearty “Allahu Akbar” (God is
Great). The truth is that we as Muslims have decided to make this great
nation our home despite her flaws. Obviously our Islam should be first,
and we are obligated to practice it, and share it with whoever wants it.
Americanism and Islam are not mutually incompatible. The relationship
between the two just has to be tweaked a little.78
Even though Satan is alive and well, according to Sheikh Luqman, and
sinisterly operates in America and abroad, America is not Satan incarnate.
American Muslim communities have generally decried terrorism. While,
from their perspectives, American culture may be corrupt and morally bank-
rupt among large segments of the population, there is much to commend
America. The very fact that American Muslims are free to practice Islam
in their own way speaks volumes about how America actually protects the
religious rights of Muslims in America. These very sentiments are echoed
elsewhere. Imam Al-Hajj Talib Abdur-Rashid, prayer leader of the Mosque
of the Islamic Brotherhood on the corner of 113th Street and St. Nicholas
Avenue in Harlem, had this to say in a 2005 Seattle Times interview: “We who
have served in the armies of America as Muslim African-Americans since the
American Revolution are not at odds with the West. We are the West.”79
In fine, the “Great Satan” myth of America was met with the “Axis of
Evil” counter-myth tilted at Iran. Both pejorative epithets are roughly
equivalent and are functionally comparable. The obvious rhetorical intent is
to demonize the other. However productive such discourse may be deemed
to be domestically in rallying public opinion behind a given foreign policy,
the net effect of the opposing rhetoric is to render any attempt at diplomacy
incapable of progress. In finding, in each, a common enemy, all common
ground has been forfeited. The rhetoric has a life of its own, independent of
any groundswell of support which, in any case, may be expected to dimin-
ish over time. These myths, which are powerful when first bruited, are,
after all, myths. One observer of U.S.-Iran relations notes that those who
demonized America now seek an opportunity for dialogue: “Ironically, the
very clerics who demonized the United States now want to gain domestic
support by interacting with the former ‘Great Satan’.”80 On the part of the
United States, the same observer recommends: “We should try to get to a
place where we can define Iran not only in terms of its negatives, which are
formidable, but also its promise and its potential.”81 In other words, the

256 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Great Satan (America) and the Axis of Evil (here, Iran) would do well to
abandon name-calling and engage in dialogue. If and when that happens,
the myth of America as the Great Satan will fade into memory, having lost
whatever credibility it once may have enjoyed. If and when that happens,
the myth of Iran (and Islam) as the third pivot of the Axis of Evil will also
recede into historical memory. However, if “the reality” is “that myth is just
as important to U.S. policy making as it is to revolutionary Iran,”82 then the
cessation of reciprocal “mything” will not likely occur very soon.
What about the continuing role of the Great Satan myth of America in the
wider Islamic world? In “Love and Hate: Anti-Americanism in the Islamic
World,”83 Giacomo Chiozza, post-doctoral fellow in national security, Olin
Institute for Strategic Studies, Harvard University, inventoried the percep-
tions of the United States in the mass publics in eight predominantly Islamic
countries—Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, Kuwait, Lebanon, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia,
and United Arab Emirates. Based on his statistical survey, Chiozza finds that
“ambivalence is a prominent feature of people’s attitude towards America in
the Islamic world. The general public loves America, when America means
democracy, movies, education, people, and science, but hates America, when
America means foreign policies towards Arab nations, the Palestinians, and
Iraq.”84 While this generalization holds true to a certain extent, “differences
still exist” among the eight Islamic countries surveyed, such that “popular
opposition to America is greater in Iran and Egypt, and lower in Pakistan,
Lebanon, and Indonesia.”85 The greater opposition to America in Iran comes
as no surprise. Its type of antipathy to the United States has been termed,
“legacy anti-Americanism,” which “stems from resentment of past wrongs
committed by the United States to another society,”86 combined with “Radi-
cal Muslim Anti-Americanism” generally.87
As for American Muslim myths and visions of America, within America
itself, there is no single, dominant paradigm. However, there is a dynamic
relationship between what American does overseas and how America is
viewed by Muslims at home in the United States. Ingrid Mattson describes
this dynamic relationship between foreign policy and domestic attitudes
among American Muslims:
In many cases, those Muslims who begin from a position of “selective
embrace” of America move eventually to a position of “full embrace.”
When their efforts to effect positive change in society bear fruit, they may
come to see advantages in the American political system that they did not
see before. At this point, they may abandon former paradigm they used to
define America in favor of one is more positive and comprehensive. The
shift, however is not inevitable. . . . No matter what happens within Amer-
ica, the deep connections between American Muslims and their brothers
and sisters overseas means that American foreign-policy will always have
a profound effect on the way Muslims in this country. . . . Perhaps, then,
the most powerful paradigm underlying all Muslim definitions America is

Contemporary Muslim Myths and Visions of America 257
the dominant Islamic theological belief in that one’s true convictions will
inevitably it made manifest by one’s actions.88
In light of this insight, a new paradigm of Islamic society and culture appears
to be developing within America. It may be, of course, too soon to tell. But
from all indications, some distinctive patterns are emerging. For instance,
second-generation Muslims, generally speaking, are far less inclined to be
swayed by anti-Americanism overseas than their parents, whose homeland
ties tend to remain perpetual and strong—unless, of course, they themselves
were victims of their own home country. The American Muslim community,
which is diverse and heterogeneous, is far from monolithic. This means that
a comprehensive and coherent domestic position on America, held by the
majority of American Muslims, is not yet possible. Over time, with each suc-
ceeding generation, a more native and authentic consensus may emerge. At
such time as the American Muslim community surpasses, in population, the
size of the American Jewish community, one can expect that the voice of
American Muslims will begin to be heard, with greater clarity and rhetori-
cal force, in the public sphere. Not only will calls for certain changes in both
American foreign and domestic policy be expected, but also calls for change
(that is, reform) in the contemporary Muslim world may be raised.
One obvious call for reform, by American Muslim leaders, has already
been voiced: viz., that offensive jihad is fundamentally un-Islamic (and
arguably anti-Islamic). Moreover, that same call may be aimed at Muslim
leaders abroad—at the clerical leadership in Iran, for instance—to ensure
that Islam, as practiced and as enforced by law, respects the human rights of
all citizens. In Iran, the most egregious of such human rights violation have
been, and continue to be, experienced by Iran’s largest religious minor-
ity, the Baha’is, who have suffered persecution in their native country for
well over a century and a half.89 That same American Muslim voice may
also demand that the draconian anti-Ahmadi laws in Pakistan be revoked.90
Expected also may be calls for greater rights for women in Islamicate states.
In other words, from the United States of America, a voice of moderate
Islam may emerge that speaks to fellow Muslims across the chasm of West
and East, calling for change. That same call for change will also have an
American component, as American Muslim leaders take part in consulta-
tion on pressing social concerns at home, and, finding common cause with
the leaders of other faiths, thereby engendering greater respect for Islamic
values, and perhaps even for the Islamic holy book itself, the Qur’an.91 If
and when that sea change takes place, then the myth of “the Great Satan”
will become increasingly difficult for Iran, for Radical Islamists generally,
and for sympathizers across the Islamic world, to sustain. Reciprocally, if
and when the voice and influence of moderates in the Islamic world are
ascendant, then Iran (and the ideological transferral to Muslims generally)
will no longer be part and parcel of the “Axis of Evil.” In time, “the Great
Satan” will die a natural death, and the “Axis of Evil” will rust, if not break.

258 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Chapter 10 Update: Defending America,
and Islam in America, from Radical Islamism
I’ve come here to Cairo to seek a new beginning between the United States
and Muslims around the world, one based on mutual interest and mutual
respect, and one based upon the truth that America and Islam are not
exclusive and need not be in competition. Instead, they overlap, and share
common principles—principles of justice and progress; tolerance and the
dignity of all human beings. . . .
Figure 10.2. American Muslim children at rally supporting Park51 (originally named
Cordoba House), a planned Islamic community center in Lower Manhattan, located
two blocks from the World Trade Center site, controversially referred to as the
“Ground Zero mosque.” Park51’s mission statement affirms, in part:
Inspired by Islamic values and Muslim heritage, Park51 will weave the Muslim-Ameri-
can identity into the multicultural fabric of the United States.
(Photo by David Shankbone, August 22, 2010. Permission by Creative Commons
Attribution 2.0 license, https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0/legalcode.
Black & white version of color original.)

Contemporary Muslim Myths and Visions of America 259
So I have known Islam on three continents before coming to the region
where it was first revealed. That experience guides my conviction that
partnership between America and Islam must be based on what Islam is,
not what it isn’t. And I consider it part of my responsibility as President of
the United States to fight against negative stereotypes of Islam wherever
they appear. (Applause.)
But that same principle must apply to Muslim perceptions of America.
(Applause.) Just as Muslims do not fit a crude stereotype, America is not
the crude stereotype of a self-interested empire. The United States has been
one of the greatest sources of progress that the world has ever known.
—President Barack Obama (2009)92
The “Islamic State” is at war with America. Its handbook, “Book of Terror,”
is online.93
This grave situation creates a duty, and offers an opportunity, to appre-
ciate—and, where necessary, to reassess and redeem—the “partnership
between America and Islam” that President Barack Obama spoke of, in the
epigraph above.
The rise of the Islamic State (IS, formerly the “Islamic State of Iraq and
Syria,” ISIS, and the “Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, ISIL) in 2013 was
both spectacular and sinister. In March 2013, the Islamic State overtook
the Syrian city of Raqqa, the first provincial capital to fall under IS con-
trol. In January 2014, ISIS took control of the predominantly Sunni city of
Fallujah in Iraq. On June 10, 2014, ISIS captured Mosul—a conquest that
sent shockwaves around the world. On June 29, 2014, ISIS announced the
creation of a caliphate (an Islamic state, with shari‘a being the rule of law),
rebranding its name to the “Islamic State” (IS).
America is siding with moderate Islam against radical Islam. The stakes
are high. For one thing, the very definition of Islam is at stake. Islamic
terrorism is no longer directed primarily against the West, but is also target-
ing Muslims (including moderate Sunnis and all Shi‘is) who oppose radical
Islamists. So, alongside America’s long-standing “war on terror,” there is an
ideological war. The ideology of jihad (holy war) animates radical Islamists.
In the interplay between radical and moderate polarities within the con-
temporary Muslim world, the sword of rhetoric cuts both ways. Rhetoric is
equally sharp in the interface between America and radical Islam. Currently,
the more popular term of deprecation used to objectify Americans is no
longer “the Great Satan,” but the “Crusaders.”
Myth: America as “Crusader” Nation
The Islamic State is seen as a direct threat to America’s security inter-
ests. This threat is not imagined. It is real. In September 2014, the official

260 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
spokesman of the Islamic State, Shaykh Abu¯ Muhammad al-‘Adna¯n×¯ ash-
Sha¯m×¯, released a statement that proclaimed: “O America, O allies of
America, and O crusaders, know that the matter is more dangerous than
you have imagined and greater than you have envisioned.”94
The Islamic State’s rhetoric is easily available in a slick, profession-
ally designed propaganda magazine, Dabiq, which is available online. In
its fourth issue, the cover displays a photoshopped picture of the Islamic
State’s black flag atop the Holy See, with the issue title, “The Failed Cru-
sade.” In the feature article, “Reflections on the Final Crusade,” the Islamic
State declares that war, in the form of terrorism, is a defensive (and offen-
sive) tactic that “every Muslim” should carry out:
At this point of the crusade against the Islamic State, it is very impor-
tant that attacks take place in every country that has entered into the
alliance against the Islamic State, especially the U.S., UK, France, Aus-
tralia, and Germany. Rather, the citizens of crusader nations should be
targeted wherever they can be found. . . . Every Muslim should get out
of his house, find a crusader, and kill him. It is important that the killing
becomes attributed to patrons of the Islamic State who have obeyed its
leadership. This can easily be done with anonymity. Otherwise, crusader
media makes such attacks appear to be random killings.95
This “Crusaders” issue of Dabiq prominently displays a color photo of the
severed head of journalist, Steven Sotloff, who was beheaded on September
2, 2014 in a grisly video posted online that same day. This was effective
propaganda in that it immediately got world attention. But its message
arguably did not achieve its purpose. Quite the opposite, as the video drew
worldwide condemnation. The Islamic State itself admits: “The war against
Islam for the sake of ta¯ghu¯t [loosely, infidel leaders] is a media war as well
as a military and intelligence struggle.”96 As part of that media war, Dabiq
has published a “Message from Steven Sotloff” as well as a piece by another
captive journalist, John Cantlie.
Why does the Islamic State refer Americans, and the rest of the West, as
“Crusaders” rather than “Satan,” as in America being branded as “the Great
Satan” and Israel at this “the Little Satan”? This is because these latter terms
were coined, in their contemporary usage, by Ayatollah Khomeini. Therefore,
these linguistic coins have currency in Shia rhetoric, not in Sunni discourse.
In its media war, the Islamic State operates on several fronts. Al-Furqa¯n
glorifies IS’s military victories and showcases its military might. Al-Itisam,
complementarily, concentrates on sermons, religious activities, and social
welfare projects. On November 12, 2014, al-Furqa¯n released an audio
recording and an accompanying statement that said, in part: “O soldiers of
the Islamic State, continue to harvest the soldiers. Erupt volcanoes of jiha¯d
everywhere. Light the earth with fire against all the tawa¯gh×¯t [infidel lead-
ers], their soldiers, and supporters.”97

Contemporary Muslim Myths and Visions of America 261
There is much more that could be written about the Islamic State, as
shocking media reports in world news occur almost daily at the time of this
writing. As part of the wider Islamic movement to oppose the Islamic State,
several Arab states have joined a coalition spearheaded by the United States
to attack and degrade the Islamic State militarily and economically. But
since there is also a “media war” currently in progress, what may be called
a reaffirmation and clarification (if not a redefinition) of Islam is underway.
Counter Myth: “Islamic State” as the “Order Of Satan”
It’s fair to say that Islamic State’s sudden rise to power precipitated a cri-
sis within the contemporary Muslim world. Profound pressure is put on
so-called “moderate” Muslims to decry and condemn the Islamic State as
fundamentally un-Islamic—even as “anti-Islamic” in pursuing “offensive”
jihad (rather than a limited “defensive” jihad as mandated in the Qur’an).
“Offensive” jihad contravenes the basic humanitarian principles inherent in
Islam, and tarnishes the reputation of Islam in the eyes of the wider pub-
lic, thereby contributing to Islamophobia (“fear of Islam”). In other words,
“offensive” jihad is an offense to Islam, as well as to the world at large.
Nihad Awad, executive director of the Council on American-Islamic
Relations (CAIR)—America’s largest Muslim civil rights and advocacy
organization—wrote an op-ed piece for Time magazine, categorically con-
demning the Islamic State as “anti-Islamic”: “The American Muslim
community and Muslim scholars around the world have repudiated and
rejected ISIS’s twisted ideology, calling it not just un-Islamic, but ‘anti-
Islamic’.” Awad goes on to say: “The Organization of Islamic Cooperation,
the ‘Muslim U.N.,’ said ISIS has “nothing to do with Islam,” and has com-
mitted crimes ‘that cannot be tolerated’.”98
Public condemnations of the Islamic State are most effectively made by
religious leaders who have the authority to make official pronouncements
on Islamic matters and concerns. For instance, on Wednesday, September
17, 2014, Sheik Abdul-Aziz al-Sheik, the Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia, and
head of the Council of Senior Religious Scholars (a group of 21 Islamic
scholars), issued a statement carried on Saudi state media. Signed by all
21 members of the Council, the statement warns that all fatwas (Islamic
decrees) or similar opinions that “justify terrorism” are not permissible.
Each exhortation to terrorism is “the order of Satan.”99 The very next day,
U.S. Secretary of State, John Kerry, testified before the House Foreign
Affairs Committee:
In addition, we have a major effort to undertake to repudiate the insult-
ing distortion of Islam that ISIL is spreading. I was very encouraged to
hear yesterday that Saudi Arabia’s top clerical entity, 21 clerics, unani-
mously came out and declared again that terrorism is a heinous crime

262 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
under Sharia law, and more importantly declared that ISIL has nothing to
do with Islam and that it is, in fact, the order of Satan. . . . The top—the
grand mufti of Saudi Arabia last week said that ISIL is the number one
enemy of Islam and it might serve us all well to focus on it not in a name
that gives it a state, but to focus on it as the enemy of Islam.100
There could, and perhaps should, be a multiplication of such public con-
demnations, by Muslim leaders, of the Islamic State worldwide. Doubtless
there are many. Unfortunately, the media appear not to have given sufficient
attention, much less “equal time,” to these corrective pronouncements,
which also function as appeals to young Muslims not to be seduced by the
hype and “romance” of jihadist propaganda. This crisis intensifies the larger
issue of what constitutes good governance within a Muslim society—an
issue precipitated by the so-called “Arab Spring.”
An American Model of Islam
As one would expect, there are competing models of Islamic good gover-
nance in countries where Muslims constitute majorities. There are also
varying models of how minority Muslim communities may best function
and prosper within their respective host countries. This is also important
since the definition of what it means to be a Muslim, if permitted to further
radicalize, can constitute an increasing threat to national security in non-
Islamicate states. In God and Logic in Islam: The Caliphate of Reason, Islamicist
John Walbridge proposes that the American experience, where Muslims
flourish as a religious minority, may offer an attractive model for the rest of
the Muslim world:
Second, I think the Muslims living in the Americas are likely to play a key
role in the renewal of the Islamic consensus. Though comparatively small
in numbers, they are quickly evolving into a vigorous and successful com-
munity. As a minority in an alien cultural setting, they have had to ask
themselves new questions about the meaning and nature of Islam. As a
minority of very diverse origins, they do not have the luxury of preserving
the divisions of the societies they came from. Mosques, whose congrega-
tions might come from a score of countries across the Islamic world, have
to face issues of diversity, cultural difference, modernism, unity, and the
role of women, and to do so while trying to win acceptance from a larger
non-Muslim society that usually has not been very sympathetic. Clergy
have had to learn to play new roles and to deal with new problems. Mus-
lim communities in American or European cities are microcosms of the
Islamic world in a larger international society. I suspect that the lessons
they are learning will prove invaluable to the Islamic lands of the Old
World.101

Contemporary Muslim Myths and Visions of America 263
Walbridge’s prediction has promise. Consider this prominent Ameri-
can Muslim: Muqtedar Khan, Associate Professor, Department of Political
Science and International Relations, University of Delaware. In “American
Exceptionalism and American Muslims” (2012), Dr. Khan ventures to say
that American Muslims may have a divine purpose within the greater Mus-
lim world today:
American “Muslim exceptionalists” believe that God brought Muslims to
America, the world’s richest and most powerful country, for a purpose.
They recognize that American Muslims constitute one of the most highly
educated, most advanced, and wealthiest Muslim societies in the world.
They hope that in America’s society, where both freedom of religion and
freedom of thought are protected, a genuinely authentic Islamic revivalist
and reformist movement will emerge that will not only prove that Islamic
principles are truly divine, but that will also establish a path for the Mus-
lim community worldwide to negotiate the challenges of modernity.102
An example of particular note is the recent resurgence of interest in
the Maqasid approach to Islamic law. The basic idea here is to focus on
the already-present agreement within the Islamic tradition that all spe-
cific Islamic legal rulings must conform with the core purposes of the
divine law, and to show that protection of human rights, minority rights,
and gender equality falls under the purview of the Maqasid (the underly-
ing goals of Islamic law). The idea of the Maqasid al-Shariah approach
has been revived with great enthusiasm by the International Institute of
Islamic thought, an American Muslim research institute based in Virginia.
Dr. Khan goes on to say that American Muslims are developing a new
approach to the practice of Islamic law (Sharia). Instead of enforcing the
centuries-old code to the letter, it makes a lot more sense to identify those
“core purposes” that serve as “the underlying goals of Islamic law.”103
These include the “protection of human rights, minority rights, and gender
equality.”104 In other words, Islamic law must conform to these objectives.
Otherwise, Islamic and practices would be at cross-purposes with Islamic
precepts. In this way, Islamic law can be adjusted to the requirements
of modernity, without sacrifice to quintessentially Islamic values. This
approach is called Maqasid al-Shariah (“purposes of Islamic law”), represent-
ing the universal principles that serve as a foundation upon which Islamic
normative law is based.
Islamic legal thought, historically speaking, has been preoccupied with
conformity to the often minutely particular requirements of sharia law. This
fixation on literalism has come at the expense of a broader understanding
of the fundamental purposes served by the practice of Islamic law. By and
large, Muslims have tended to conform to those requirements simply as
a matter of pious obedience, seen as necessary to an individual Muslim’s
salvation, since Islamic law, from the Muslim perspective, represents the

264 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
way in which God has commanded Muslims, and indeed all people every-
where, to live. But what if strict adherence to Islamic law, while fulfilling
the letter of the law, arguably contradicts its purpose under changed histori-
cal circumstances? This is precisely the problem—and challenge—posed by
“modernity.”
So where does America fit into all of this? The answer is that Ameri-
can Muslims could well involve a model for adapting the requirements of
Islamic law to the changed social conditions of today, as a reasonable and
coherent “response to modernity.” How would this work? What would this
look like?
Dr. Zainab Alwani, Assistant Professor of Islamic Studies at the Howard
University School of Divinity, states that American Muslims are part and
parcel of American society and therefore should make a positive difference:
“As American citizens, Muslims” ideally should be “making substantial
contributions to the advancement of American society as a whole.”105 Pro-
fessor Alwani has also edited a special issue of The Muslim World, published
in October 2014. This issue is entitled, Judaism and Islam in America. As such,
this collection of journal articles is something every publication event, espe-
cially in having brought Jewish and Muslim perspectives together in a single
forum, thereby creating a dialogue by association. In the present writer’s
view, this is nothing short of extraordinary. It would be too narrow to say,
“it could only happen in America.” But it did. This could serve as a model
for stimulating further interfaith dialogue in America. In her introduction,
Professor Alwani writes:
In conclusion, all the articles in this volume shed light on how followers of
different faith groups in North America are resorting to their sacred texts
in order to address social issues in today’s modern world. In address-
ing the daunting social challenges confronting the community of all faith
groups, perhaps a collective effort by the interreligious community would
introduce a new chapter in interfaith relations.106
Professor Alwani’s discussion of how a methodology, based on the
Qur’anic and other primary sources, can best address contemporary social
issues and challenges of modernity. The author presents the methodology
of Dr. Taha Jabir al-Alwani (b. 1935), founder of the legal doctrine of fiqh
al-aqalliyya¯t (jurisprudence for Muslim minorities). This involves identify-
ing the moral purposes of Islamic law (shar×¯‘a) as well as the underlying
principles of the Qur’an (al-maqa¯s.id al-Qur’a¯niyya) and then selectively and
systematically adapting Islamic practices by applying these principles in the
changed historical circumstances of the postmodern world. This involves
a fundamental rethinking of the notion of fiqh (Islamic jurisprudence)
itself. Rather than understanding fiqh as divine knowledge, rethinking fiqh
as human understanding allows for Muslim jurists to applying Islamic
jurisprudence to circumstances in order to remedy a situation in which

Contemporary Muslim Myths and Visions of America 265
a particular Muslim minority, such as the American Muslim community,
may be experiencing social, economic or other difficulties that work to the
disadvantage of all concerned. But the discussion is quite technical, and
impossible to summarize with any kind of brevity that would do justice to
this novel approach. This “ethical turn” in Islamic jurisprudence has been
called the “maqa¯s.id×¯ turn.” The goal is to further enhance the positive inte-
gration of immigrant Muslims into American society and beyond.
There’s another article in this special issue is more directly focused on
the application of Islamic law within the American Muslim experience. The
author, Muzammil H. Siddiqi, writes:
Islamic Law and Muslims of America
Muslims in America recognize and accept the U.S. Constitution, the Bill
of Rights and the Declaration of Independence. All these three documents
agree with the basic spirit and core values of Islam. [The] U.S. Constitu-
tion guarantees freedom of religion.
According to [the] U.S. Constitution, and general laws, Muslims are
not forbidden to do what is obligatory according to the Shari’ah and also
not forced to do what is forbidden in Shari’ah. There are certain things
allowed according to American laws which are forbidden in Islam such as
drinking alcohol or eating pork. There are also certain things forbidden
here which are permissible in Islam such as having more than one wife
(with some rules and restrictions). Some of the Federal, State and local
laws come in the category of ‘mubah’ or ‘halal’ i.e. it is allowed for Muslims
to follow those laws. Muslims abide by all civil codes and there is no ques-
tion that they should be followed.
It is the personal laws of Islam, such as marriage, divorce and inheri-
tance that are not fully recognized in America. Muslims, however, try to
adopt or adapt them.107
Without digressing, these discussions do not speak directly to an Islamic
“theology of America,” since, as previously stated in this chapter, con-
temporary Islam does not appear to have specific views on this particular
question. That is not to say that there is not a vigorous discussion of Ameri-
can foreign policy. There is, of course, and this often takes on the contours
of a debate, if not a wholesale critique of American interventions in the
Middle East and elsewhere. Such discussions, moreover, may be specific to
particular countries and contexts.
What is becoming clear, however, is that Muslim communities within
America have the opportunity to offer a fresh model as to what it means to
be a Muslim minority within a democracy. If consensus can be developed
around these issues, then perhaps the American Muslim community can
then serve as a model for the rest of the Muslim world. But one thing is
for sure: such a model would go far toward solving the so-called “clash of
civilizations” between the Muslim world and the West.

266 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Notes

1. Hassan Nasrallah (leader of Lebanon’s Hezbollah, or “Party of God”), BBC
Monitoring: Al-Manar (September 27, 2002).

2. Hillel Fradkin, “America in Islam.” The Public Interest, No. 155 (Spring
2004): 37–55 [51].

3. Qtd. in Carol Eisenberg, “Black Muslims Seek Acceptance from Fellow
Americans, Adherents.” Seattle Times (January 22, 2005).

4. Eisenberg, “Black Muslims Seek Acceptance from Fellow Americans,
Adherents.”

5. John Zimmerman, “Sayyid Qutb’s Influence on the 11 September Attacks.”
Terrorism and Political Violence 16.2 (April–June 2004): 222–252 [223].

6. Barbara-Ann J. Rieffer, “Religion and Nationalism: Understanding the
Consequences of a Complex Relationship.” Ethnicities 3.2 (2003): 215–242
[225].

7. Ibid., 225.

8. Ibid., 227.

9. William O. Beeman, “Images of the Great Satan: Representations of the
United States in the Iranian Revolution.” Religion and Politics in Iran: Shi’ism
from Quietism to Revolution. Ed. Nikki R. Keddie (New Haven, CT: Yale Uni-
versity Press, 1983): 191–217.

10. William O. Beeman, The “Great Satan” vs. the “Mad Mullahs”: How the United
States and Iran Demonize Each Other (Westport, CT: Praeger, 2005), 119.

11. Ibid., 119.

12. “Hezbollah Leader Nasrallah Supports Intifadah, Vows ‘Death to America’”
(September 27, 2002). Qtd. “In Their Own Words: What the Terrorists
Believe, What They Hope to Accomplish, and How They Intend to Accom-
plish It.” Office of the Press Secretary. White House press release, dated
September 5, 2006.

13. See the CIA document, Dr. Donald N. Wilber, “Overthrow of Premier
Mossadeq of Iran” (Washington, DC: Central Intelligence Agency, March
1954). First published in an article written by James Risen of The New York
Times in its editions of April 16 and June 18, 2000.

14. Rieffer, “Religion and Nationalism,” 228.

15. Ibid., 228.

16. Ayatollah Khomeini, Imam’s Will (Tehran: Ministry of Islamic Guidance,
1989), 4. Qtd. in Enayatollah Yazdani and Rizwan Hussain, “United States’
Policy towards Iran after the Islamic Revolution: An Iranian Perspective.”
International Studies 43 (2006): 267–289 [269].

17. Richard Burton, Pilgrimage to Al-Madinah and Meccah (1855), Chapter 30.

18. The present writer owes this distinction to Andrew Rippin, personal e-mail
communication, July 12, 2008.

19. Andrew Rippin, “Iblís.” Encyclopaedia of the Qur’an. Ed. Jane Dammen
McAuliffe. Vol. II. (Leiden: E. J. Brill, 2002).

20. Ibid.

21. Rippin, personal e-mail communication, July 12, 2008.

22. Zimmerman, “Sayyid Qutb’s Influence on the 11 September Attacks,” 222.

23. Andrew Rippin, Muslims: Their Religious Beliefs and Practices. 3rd ed. (Lon-
don: Routledge, 2005), 238.

Contemporary Muslim Myths and Visions of America 267

24. Sayyid Qutb, “‘The America I Have  Seen’: In the Scale of Human Values
(1951). Trans. Tarek Masoud and Ammar Fakeeh. America in an Arab Mirror:
Images of America in Arabic Travel Literature: An Anthology. Ed. Kamal Abdel-
Malek (New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2000), 9–28 [26]; Ussama Makdisi,
“‘Anti-Americanism’ in the Arab World: An Interpretation of a Brief His-
tory.” Journal of American History 89.2 (September 2002). Reprinted in
History and September 11th. Ed. Joanne Jay Meyerowitz (Philadelphia:
Temple University Press, 2003), 131–156 [138].

25. Zimmerman, “Sayyid Qutb’s Influence on the 11 September Attacks,” 235.

26. Sayyid Qutb, qtd. in Zimmerman, “Sayyid Qutb’s Influence on the 11 Sep-
tember Attacks,” 235 (internal citations omitted).

27. Ibid.

28. Zimmerman, “Sayyid Qutb’s Influence on the 11 September Attacks,” 242.

29. William E. Shepard, “Islam and Ideology: Towards a Typology.” International
Journal of Middle East Studies 19.3 (August 1987): 307–335. For a critique of
Shepard’s typology (and others), see Jeff Kenney, “The Politics of Sects and
Typologies.” Nova Religio 6.1 (October 2002): 137–146.

30. Haroro J. Ingram, “The Transformative Charisma Phenomenon in Islamic
Radicalism and Militancy: Tracing the Evolutionary Roots of Islamic Terror-
ism.” Proceedings of Social Change in the 21st Century Conference 2006.

31. Rippin, Muslims, 178.

32. Peter Beyer, Religion and Globalization (London: Sage, 1994), 99–101.

33. Rippin, Muslims, 193.

34. David Talbot, “Terrorists Increasingly Turn to the Internet.” M.I.T.

35. Ingram, “The Transformative Charisma Phenomenon,” 5. Ingram proposes
a separate category, will he calls “Militant” (6), reflecting the openly terror-
ist agenda of jihádí radicalists.

36. Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA), June 8, 2003. Iranian Students
News Agency (ISNA) and IRNA, January 22, 2006.

37. Rippin, Muslims, 198.

38. Ibid., 192.

39. Mansoor Moaddel, “Discursive Pluralism and Islamic Modernism in
Egypt.” Arab Studies Quarterly 24.1 (Winter 2002): 1–29 [4].

40. Rippin, Muslims, 192.

41. Ibid., 192.

42. Ibid., 198.

43. Shepard, “Islam and Ideology,” 311.

44. Ingram, “The Transformative Charisma Phenomenon,” 5.

45. Moaddel, “Discursive Pluralism,” 1.

46. Bernard Lewis, “The Roots of Muslim Rage: Why so many Muslims deeply
resent the West, and why their bitterness will not easily be mollified.” The
Atlantic Monthly (September 1990): 1–10 [9].

47. Rippin, Muslims, 198 (internal citation omitted).

48. Ingram, “The Transformative Charisma Phenomenon,” 5.

49. Rippin, Muslims, 190.

50. Christopher Buck, Paradise and Paradigm: Key Symbols in Persian Christianity
and the Baha’i Faith (Albany: State University of New York Press, 1999), 3.

51. Rieffer, “Religion and Nationalism,” 234.

52. Ibid., 237.

268 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America

53. BBC News, “Iran’s President Launches Weblog” (August 14, 2006).

54. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, “Autobiography.” Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s Per-
sonal Memos (August 8, 2006). [Blog.] Formerly available at http://www.
ahmadinejad.ir/en/. See now http://forums.randi.org/showthread.php?t=
61640. (Accessed November 10, 2014.)

55. James R. Gaines and Karsten Prager, “Rafsanjani’s Advice to the ‘Great
Satan’.” Time (May 31, 1993).

56. “Ahmadinejad: Britain, Israel, US to ‘vanish like the pharaohs’.” American
Foreign Press (December 20, 2005).

57. Adam Zagorin, “Khatami: American ‘Conceit and Pride’ Led to Iraq Mess.”
Time (September 8, 2006).

58. “Text of President Bush’s 2002 State of the Union Address.” Office of the
Press Secretary. White House press release, dated January 29, 2002.

59. G. Matthew Bonham and Daniel Heradstveit, “The ‘Axis of Evil’ Metaphor
and the Restructuring of Iranian Views Toward the US.” Vaseteh–Journal of
the European Society for Iranian Studies 1.1 (2005): 89–106 [92].

60. Ibid., 92.

61. Ibid., 91.

62. Ibid., 89 (internal citations omitted).

63. Chehabi, H. E. “Sport Diplomacy between the United States and Iran.”
Diplomacy and Statecraft 12.1 (2005): 89–106 [94].

64. Bonham and Heradstveit, “The ‘Axis of Evil’ Metaphor,” 103.

65. Ibid., 102.

66. Ingrid Mattson, “How Muslims Use Islamic Paradigms to Define America.”
Religion and Immigration: Christian, Jewish, and Muslim Experiences in the United
States. Ed. Yvonne Yazbeck Haddad, Jane Smith, and John Esposito (Wal-
nut Creek, CA: Altamira Press, 2003), 198–215 [201].

67. Council on American-Islamic Relations (CAIR), “Islamophobia and Anti-
Americanism Book Excerpts: Islamophobia” (2008).

68. Ibid.

69. Charisse L’Pree Corsbie-Massay, “International MTV and Globalization.”

70. Charlotte Beers, Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs,
“Remarks at the National Defense University” (September 18, 2002). U.S.
Department of State.

71. Charles Dolan, “America’s Global Communications Efforts.” Remarks to
Public Relations Society of America, National Press Club, Washington,
DC, October 31, 2002. Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public
Affairs, U.S. Department of State.

72. “An Organization of U.S. International Broadcasters.”

73. “Testimony of Joaquin Blaya, Broadcasting Board of Governors, Before the
Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia Committee on Foreign
Affairs” (May 16, 2007).

74. Ibid.

75. Christopher Ross, “American Public Diplomacy and Islam.” Ambassadors
Review (Spring 2003).

76. The present writer is indebted to Andrew Rippin for these insights. Per-
sonal communication, e-mail dated July 12, 2008.

77. Fachrizal Halim, “Pluralism of American Muslims and the Challenge of Assim-
ilation.” Journal of Muslim Minority Affairs 26.2 (August 2006): 235–244 [240].

Contemporary Muslim Myths and Visions of America 269

78. Imam Abu Laith Luqman Ahmad, “Islam American Style” (2004).

79. Qtd. in Carol Eisenberg, “Black Muslims Seek Acceptance from Fellow
Americans, Adherents.” Seattle Times (January 22, 2005).

80. Ellen Laipson, “The Absence of a U.S. Policy towards Iran and its Con-
sequences.” The American Academy of Diplomacy Issues Brief (September 21,
2004): 5.

81. Ibid., 6.

82. Ali M. Ansari, “Iran and the US in the Shadow of 9/11: Persia and the Per-
sian Question Revisited.” Iranian Studies 39.2 (June 2006): 155–170 [170].

83. Giacomo Chiozza, “Love and Hate: Anti-Americanism in the Islamic
World.” Paper prepared for presentation in the Department of Politics,
New York University, November 22, 2004, 1–58.

84. Ibid., 2–3.

85. Ibid., 3.

86. Peter J. Katzenstein and Robert O. Keohane, “Varieties of Anti-Ameri-
canism: A Framework for Analysis.” Anti-Americanism in World Politics. Ed.
Peter J. Katzenstein and Robert O. Keohane (Ithaca, NY: Cornell University
Press, 2007), 37 and 144.

87. Sophie Menuier, “The Distinctiveness of French Anti-Americanism.” Anti-
Americanism in World Politics, 144.

88. Mattson, “How Muslims Use Islamic Paradigms,” 213.

89. Christopher Buck, “Islam and Minorities: The Case of the Baha’is.” Stud-
ies in Contemporary Islam 5.1–2 (Spring/Fall 2003): 83–106; “Closed Doors:
Iran’s Campaign to Deny Higher Education to Baha’is.”

90. Christopher Buck, “Minority Rights.” The Islamic World. Ed. Andrew Rippin
(London/New York: Routledge, 2008 [forthcoming]).

91. Christopher Buck, “Discovering.” [the Qur’an]. The Blackwell Companion to
the Qur’an. Ed. Andrew Rippin (Oxford: Blackwell, 2006), 18–35.

92. President Barack Obama, “Remarks by the President on a New Begin-
ning.” Cairo University, Egypt. (June 4, 2009.) The White House, Office
of the Press Secretary. See http://www.whitehouse.gov/the_press_office/
Remarks-by-the-President-at-Cairo-University-6-04-09/. (Accessed Novem-
ber 22, 2014.)

93. Islamic State, “Book of Terror: A Guide to Striking Terror In The Hearts
of the Kuffar!” See http://worldanalysis.net/14/2014/10/book-terror/.
(Accessed November 15, 2014.)

94. Islamic State (Shaykh Abu¯ Muhammad al-‘Adna¯n×¯ ash-Sha¯m×¯, official
spokesman), “Indeed Your Lord is Ever Watchful,” Dabiq, Issue 4 (2014),
6–9 [7]. See http://worldanalysis.net/14/2014/10/dabiq-issue-4-failed-
crusade/. (Accessed November 15, 2014.)

95. Islamic State, “Reflections on the Final Crusade,” Dabiq, Issue 4 (2014),
32–44 [44]. See http://worldanalysis.net/14/2014/10/dabiq-issue-4-failed-
crusade/. (Accessed November 15, 2014.)

96. Islamic State, “A Message from Sotloff to His Mother Days Before His Execu-
tion,” Dabiq, Issue 4 (2014), 47–48. See http://worldanalysis.net/14/2014/10/
dabiq-issue-4-failed-crusade/. (Accessed November 15, 2014.)

97. NBC News, “ISIS Leader al-Baghdadi: ‘Erupt Volcanoes of Jihad’.” See
http://www.nbcnews.com/storyline/isis-terror/isis-leader-al-baghdadi-
erupt-volcanoes-jihad-n247801. (Accessed November 15, 2014.)

270 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America

98. Nihad Awad, “ISIS Is Not Just Un-Islamic, It Is Anti-Islamic,” Time (Septem-
ber 5, 2014). See http://time.com/3273873/stop-isis-islam/. (Accessed
November 16, 2014.)

99. Angus McDowall, “Saudi Arabia’s Top Clerics Speak Out Against Mili-
tancy,” Reuters (September 17, 2014). See http://af.reuters.com/article/
worldNews/idAFKBN0HC0XL20140917. (Accessed November 10, 2014.)
100. John Kerry, Secretary of State, “Opening Remarks Before the House Foreign
Affairs Committee, Washington, DC, September 18, 2014.” U.S. Department
of State. See http://www.state.gov/secretary/remarks/2014/09/231814.
htm. (Accessed November 8, 2014.)
101. John Walbridge, God and Logic in Islam: The Caliphate of Reason (Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 2011), pp. 184–185.
102. M.A. Muqtedar Khan, “American Exceptionalism and American Muslims,”
Review of Faith & International Affairs 10.2 (May 2012): 59–65 [63].
103. Ibid.
104. Ibid.
105. Zainab Alwani, “Maqa¯s.id Qur’a¯niyya: A Methodology on Evaluating Mod-
ern Challenges and Fiqh al-Aqalliyya¯t.” Special Issue: Judaism and Islam in
America. Edited by Prof. Zainab Alwani. The Muslim World 104.4 (October
2014): 465–487 [487].
106. Zainab Alwani, “Introduction of Muslim Articles Editor.” Special Issue:
Judaism and Islam in America. Ed. Zainab Alwani and Rabbi Burton L.
Visotzky. The Muslim World 104.4 (October 2014): 385–388 [388].
107. Muzammil H. Siddiqi, “Interpretation of Islamic Law and the Muslims of
America.” Special Issue: Judaism and Islam in America. Ed. Zainab Alwani
and Rabbi Burton L. Visotzky. The Muslim World 104.4 (October 2014):
442–450 [448–449].

Figure 11.1. SGI-USA Headquarters building in Santa Monica, CA. Its declared mis-
sion, in part, is to “promote activities based on peace, culture, education and art,”
hosting events on such topics as “human rights, non-violence, relationships and
self-transformation.” These programs are “generally open to the public at no cost,
and often include guest lecturers, and various programs for youth.” See http://www.
sgi-usa.org. Accessed January 15, 2015. (Photo courtesy of Soka Gakkai Interna-
tional USA. Photo credit: Gerry Hall.)

Chapter 11
Buddhist Myths and
Visions of America
So in this respect, our entire humanity has a responsibility, particularly
this nation. Among others, you have economic power, but the most impor-
tant thing you have is the opportunity to utilize your human creativity.
This is something very good. Therefore, I think America has the potential
to make this world straight. . . . I think this nation is the only superpower.
Therefore, I think you have the opportunity or ability to change it.
—Dalai Lama (1991)1
At once ancient and modern, the “Lotus” of Buddhism has been trans-
planted in America.
The Lotus Blossom is one of the most visible symbols of Buddhism
today. A symbol of purity, the lotus flower arises from mud in a swamp. The
sacred image of this water lily has now taken root in America. In scholarly
discourse, a religion is “transplanted” when it is established abroad, across
cultural divides, beyond its country of origin. In America, as elsewhere,
Buddhism is a transplanted religion. Although Buddhism offers a universal
message, a wide array of Buddhist sects teach that message in different
ways. Therefore Buddhism is not a single lotus blossom of enlightenment
teachings, but a garden of lotuses of varying hues. Two Buddhist groups,
Tibetan Buddhism and Soka Gakkai International (“SGI”/“Soka Gakkai”),
have spoken to Americans about America’s world role, from the perspec-
tive of enlightenment. While SGI is “missionary” in the more traditional
sense—of actively seeking converts—Tibetan Buddhism is “missionary” in
the promotion of its positive ideals across religious boundaries. The Dalai
Lama, now “informal head of Tibetan Buddhists and formal head of the
Tibetan government in exile”2 tells “those who are not Buddhists not to
convert to Buddhism.”3
The first of the Buddhist myths and visions of America to be examined
is Soka Gakkai’s myth and vision of the “Second American Renaissance,”

274 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
followed by the Tibetan Buddhist perspective of Robert Thurman—the
first American to be ordained as a Tibetan Buddhist monk—and his myth
and vision of America’s “Second Renaissance.” Finally, the Dalai Lama’s
“Buddhist democracy” myth and his vision of America’s world role will be
presented. The Dalai Lama—one should hasten to add—may well be the
world’s most influential spiritual teacher today, next to the current leader
of the Catholic church, Pope Benedict XVI. The significance of SGI inheres
in the fact that this Buddhist movement has reportedly attracted a greater
diversity of race and class than any other Buddhist organization in America.4
Soka Gakkai’s Myth of “America’s Second Renaissance”
America’s world role is seen as a specifically Buddhist mission in the Japa-
nese sect of Soka Gakkai, which has spread to the United States and has
achieved a certain measure of popularity. Soka Gakkai (“Value Creation
Society”) equates faith with spiritual and material benefits (or “inconspicu-
ous and conspicuous benefits”) that derive from such faith. SGI has more
than 12 million adherents in more than 190 countries and territories world-
wide. Probably one of the most well-known practitioners of Soka Gakkai is
actor Orlando Bloom, of Pirates of the Caribbean and Lord of the Rings fame.
Vocalist Tina Turner is also a practitioner, as are jazz artists Herbie Hancock
(1987 Academy Award for Best Music, Original Score) and Wayne Shorter,
both multiple Grammy Award winners. Both individually and communally,
SGI Buddhists chant Nam-myo¯ho¯-renge-kyo¯ before the Gohonzon, which is a
mandala ascribed to Nichiren (1222–1282), “a fiery prophet who insisted
that the Lotus Sutra, one of the great Mahayana texts, is the supreme expres-
sion of the Buddha’s teaching and the one and only version of Buddhism for
our day.”5 This is the core practice of SGI. Faith in the efficacy of chanting
Nam-myoho-renge-kyo is at the heart of a movement that promises the world
and enlightenment as well, if the practitioner has the requisite faith.
Antonio Gualtieri, senior colleague of the present writer when teaching in
the Department of Religion at Carleton University in Ottawa (1994–1996),
argued that the original teachings of Jesus and the Buddha were too difficult
for their followers to practice.6 In examining “the discrepancies between
the spiritual and moral demands of the founders of great religious tradi-
tions and the actual outlook and practice of their followers,”7 and in raising
the question: “Why do the rigorous soteriological and moral messages of
the Buddha and the Christ continue within their respective traditions if
they embody a way of life to which the vast majority of their communities
do not subscribe?,”8 Antonio Gualtieri found that Buddhists and Chris-
tians (whom Gualtieri characterizes as “apostates” in deviating from the
strict moral and mental demands of the Buddha and Christ) were “read-
ing and hearing the founders’ teachings differently than they intended.”9
This accommodating process, where rigors of the Noble Eightfold Path

Buddhist Myths and Visions of America 275
prescribed by the historical Buddha are satisfied by the substitute of faith
and devotional practice, is perfectly exemplified by Soka Gakkai. Yet, with
“earnest resolve,” SGI Buddhists chant in order to reveal the innate Bud-
dhahood each human being may potentially realize.
In America, SGI Buddhists formerly chanted for worldly desires but
are now chanting for world peace. In the 1970s, SGI practitioners had the
reputation of being self-centered and materialistic. At Buddhist meetings—
several of which the present writer had attended—adherents would give
personal testimonies as to how chanting Nam-myoho-renge-kyo would gain
for them the wine, sex, and money they were seeking. However, Daisaku
Ikeda—as third president of the Soka Gakkai and founder of the Soka Gakkai
International—has transformed the materialistic promises of SGI practices
into social premises that all can respect. Ikeda has almost single-handedly
matured SGI. Among SGI’s stated “Purposes and Principles” today is “the
ideal of global citizenship” with its concomitant adjuncts of “fundamen-
tal human rights” and “freedom of religion and religious expression” and
eschews any and all discrimination. Global prosperity, respect for education
(and the “development of scholarship”), and environmentalism are among
its noble goals. These sacralized secular values are characteristic of progres-
sive internationalism. They also resonate with American values.
In his small volume of poems, Songs for America,10 which are essentially
directed to his Buddhist followers in the form of personal meditations in
free verse form, Ikeda reveals a deep admiration for America in his vision
of America’s role in the spiritual transformation of the world. In so doing,
President Ikeda echoes and amplifies the perspectives of his predecessors—
presidents Makiguchi and Toda—on America’s potential for the spread of
Buddhism and its expected influence in bringing about world peace. Ikeda
notes that, in early years of the twentieth century, Tsunesaburo Makiguchi,
founder of Soka Gakkai,
saw in America
the land where future civilizations
would encounter and unite.
This vaticinatory vision of America, while not a Buddhist tenet, paved the
way and justified an intense missionary effort to spread Soka Gakkai’s mes-
sage to America. In the same vein, Ikeda further remarks that Josei Toda,
Makiguchi’s successor,
often recalled that it was
America that brought
freedom of religion to post-war Japan,
opening the way
for a peace movement based
on this Buddhism to unfold.11

276 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Here, “this” Buddhist peace movement obviously refers to Soka Gakkai. Once
SGI to the United States, it is only natural that further reflections on Ameri-
ca’s world role would emerge out of the visions of SGI’s founding presidents.
President Ikeda, in Whitman-esque fashion, praises America as a
“republic of ideals” in which freedom and equality have served as “unit-
ing principles.”12 Here, Ikeda celebrates the cosmopolitan social fabric of
America, which is a demographic microcosm of the world. Despite Ikeda’s
high regard for America’s ideals, a disparity exists between America’s noble
professions of freedom and equality and its sobering social reality. A prime
example of this dissonance between the ideal and the real is the sociomoral
disease of racism, in which “the soul of your idealism” is in peril. America’s
idealism is in jeopardy, and “grieves at the stark realities of racial strife.”13
Here, America is not alone. Ikeda strikes a warning note in saying that
the world is now in serious trouble. It is sick and “ailing.” Pathologically,
America is
about to succumb
to the same illness.14
Sickness requires a cure, and the panacea inheres in the spread of those
palliative ideals and practices that SGI Buddhism incarnates. America is in
an ideal position to promote those socially curative precepts and practices.
This is precisely what attracted SGI leaders to the prospects and promises
of America as a Buddhist mission field.
As the grand social experiment that it is, American society should be
imbued “with the love of humanity.”15 There are signs that this is already
happening, as Ikeda sees it:
This rich spiritual soil,
this great earth alive with the diversity
of peoples and traditions—
giving rise to a new culture,
a new humanity.16
By implication, what America achieves at home should be promoted abroad.
America’s mission, therefore, is to export and internationalize its internal
values of freedom and respect for human rights, which vast sectors of the
planet sadly lack.
With this global mission comes America’s destiny in that this “multiracial
nation, America” holds such great promise that it “represents humanity’s
future.” America “holds secret stores” of “unbounded possibility.” The
engine of this social transformation is powered by
transforming
the energy of different cultures

Buddhist Myths and Visions of America 277
into the unity of construction” and converting “the flames of conflict
into the light of solidarity.17
Just how is this going to happen, the reader may well ask? How will this
transformation occur? With what engines of social change will America
become an exemplary social order for the rest of the world to admire and
emulate?
Domestic peace can promote world peace. Ikeda recognizes that, for
America to gain the moral authenticity and authority it needs to fulfill its
potential for catalyzing world peace, it should do everything in its power
to harmonize its own society. America is a land that can potentially unite
nations since America itself is “a miniature of the entire world.” Ikeda
sees “unity and solidarity” of America’s diversity to be the “principle and
formula” for “global peace.”18 The Buddhist leader calls this social awak-
ening a social renewal: “Our goal—the Second American Renaissance”
in which American society will “advance” from conflict, divisiveness,
and hatred to “union,”“coexistence,” and “fraternity.”19 Without saying
so explicitly, Ikeda clearly has his audience in view in speaking of “our
goal”—which is the goal of Buddhists in exerting their leavening influence
in helping America realize its own high ideals. Ikeda envisions America as
“the protagonist and producer” of the “drama of world history.” America’s
“powerful vigor” will determine the “destiny of our precious oasis”—that
is, “Our spaceship Earth.”20 What Ikeda says in poetry is more explicitly
spelled out in prose.
In My Dear Friends in America (2001),21 Ikeda states that progress in Amer-
ica contributes to progress abroad directly and exponentially: “The advance
of America is the advance of the world. An inch of growth for America is
an inch of growth for the rest of the world. I am convinced that, in the
future, America will of necessity become the central stage for the SGI move-
ment.”22 Given the extraordinary magnitude of America’s influence, the
Buddhist community within America has its own special mission, which is
to promote what SGI characterizes as its “new humanism”:
Today, too, the renewal of the United States is linked to the renewal of the
world, and the revitalization of the American people, awakened to a new
humanism, must become the basis for the revitalization of the country.
The SGI’s movement of human revolution is the most fundamental con-
tribution we can make to the renewal of the United States and the world.23
This is an important statement, and certainly reflects the maturity of
SGI, which is due, for the most part, to Ikeda’s leadership. The phrase,
“human revolution,” is an SGI euphemism for individual (and thus social)
transformation.
While SGI sees the United States of America as a potent agent of social
change, this special Buddhist vision of America, while clearly and publicly

278 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
articulated by its three presidents, has not quite achieved the status of a
religious doctrine. Although SGI leaders have made some exceptional
statements about America’s actual and ideal role in Buddhist terms, lay
Buddhists are not particularly focused on their leaders’ statements with
regard to America’s world role in terms of international peace and in the
spread of Buddhism. In the SGI-USA Buddhist Learning Review: 2007 Study
Guide, the words “America” and the “United States”—beyond the copyright
page itself—are nowhere mentioned.
Nor does Ikeda’s appreciation of America enjoy any status whatsoever
as a doctrine. It is a sentiment expressed by Ikeda and often seemingly not
entirely shared by the majority of SGI-USA members. This is a case where
the leader speaks, the practitioners listen with respect, yet no real doctri-
nal or programmatic development flows from the leader’s presentiments
in this regard. SGI’s vision of America is a vehicle of socially progres-
sive ideals that, if translated in social reality within the SGI community
and without, will no doubt contribute to the advancement of its Bud-
dhist vision, with its message and modality of personal and communal
empowerment.
Notwithstanding the fact that Songs for America is available to all Soka
Gakkai adherents, there appears to be no universally held religious appreci-
ation of America among its grassroots practitioners. There may be wisdom
in this, since SGI has adherents in more than 190 other countries and ter-
ritories. A universal outreach can scarcely afford to be compromised by too
great a focus on one single country, even if it is the world’s only superpower.
Moreover, the kind of enthusiasm that Ikeda expresses in Songs for America
can be found elsewhere, as he praises other places and other peoples. Such
effusion is part of his style. President Ikeda’s Songs for America, therefore, is
an unfinished symphony.
Robert Thurman’s Myth of
America’s “Second Renaissance”
One of the foremost popularizers of Buddhism in America today is Rob-
ert Thurman. Like actor Richard Gere, Robert Thurman is something of a
national celebrity when it comes to Buddhism. After the traumatic loss of
an eye while at Harvard, in 1961 Thurman embarked on a spiritual quest
that took him to Turkey, Iran, and India. Prior to this, Thurman’s first wife,
Christophe de Menil, divorced him as she did not want to travel to India with
Thurman to seek enlightenment. In India, Thurman met and befriended the
Dalai Lama in 1962, and became his steadfast disciple. In 1964, the Dalai
Lama ordained Thurman as a Tibetan Buddhist monk, marking him with
the distinction of being the first Westerner ever to do so. Several years later,
Thurman returned to America. He exchanged his Buddhist robes for those

Buddhist Myths and Visions of America 279
of a professor, and promulgated his newfound knowledge, particularly as
a “Dharmic” writer. He remarried and had five children, including Uma
Thurman, who went on to become a famous Hollywood actress. In 1997,
Thurman was named one of Time magazine’s 25 most influential persons of
that year. Today, Thurman is the Jey Tsong Khapa Professor of Indo-Tibetan
Buddhist Studies at Columbia University, is co-founder (with Richard
Gere) and president (of the board of trustees) of Tibet House U.S., and is
also president of the American Institute of Buddhist Studies. As a scholar,
Thurman has translated major Buddhist treatises from the Tibetan Tanjur.
(In the Tibetan Buddhist canon, the Kanjur is the collection of discourses of
the Buddha, and the Tanjur is the collection of 225 books of commentary on
the Buddha’s teachings.)
In 1998, Thurman published his Buddhist manifesto, Inner Revolution:
Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Real Happiness,24 with a foreword by the Dalai
Lama himself. The title’s resonance with the Declaration of Independence
shows that Thurman was writing to an American audience. In Inner Revolu-
tion, Thurman argues that America is uniquely poised to realize Buddhist
values of individual enlightenment and social harmony. Thurman describes
how the ideals of America’s Founding Fathers—life, liberty, and the pursuit
of happiness—and the founding principles of American democracy—equal-
ity, individual rights, due process, and economic well-being—resonate with
the Buddha’s teachings, endowing America with the potential to become
the next great civilization: “To finish building the free society dreamed of
by Washington, Franklin and Jefferson, we must draw upon the resources of
the enlightened imagination, which can be systematically developed by the
spiritual sciences of India and Tibet.”25
Thurman’s concept of an “inner revolution” is a psychosocial transfor-
mation that individuals and societies achieve when they seek and practice
enlightenment, which includes what is described as a quasi-scientific “elu-
cidation of causation.” This “inner revolution” comes about through a
profound insight into the nature of reality, of the cause of and cure for
human suffering, and a resolved compassion for all suffering beings—for
wisdom and compassion.
At the end of Inner Revolution, Thurman offers ten planks for a politi-
cal platform based on enlightenment ideals and 30 axioms for a politics of
enlightenment. In rapid fire, they are, in brief, as follows:
First: “Democracy’s quintessential universalism must be re-revoked as an
ideal goal for the entire planet.”26
Second: “Acknowledging the very grave injustices there still inflicted on
billions of beings, we proclaim everyone’s right to equality of opportunity
in all respects, regardless of racial, sexual, religious, national, ethnic, or
economic group membership.”27

280 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Third: “We pledge to adopt a fully consensual tax system that will allow
individual taxpayers to earmark their contributions for programs they
choose.”28 “We should increase the graduated income tax.”29
Fourth: “We deplore capital punishment and resolve to eradicate it in our
aspiring-to-be-civilized society.”30
Fifth: “We affirm each woman’s right to choose for herself whether she
will offer residence in her body to a new life, and therefore we pledge to
deploy all forms of sex education and contraception to give women maxi-
mum control.”31
Sixth: “We affirm each individual’s right to freedom of choice of lifestyles
and medical therapies, free conscience in matters of religion, freedom of
speech, and freedom of sexual preference—as long as these freedoms are
not harmful to others.”32
Seventh: “Aware of our complicity in a catastrophic mis-direction of efforts
and resources over this last century of militarism, we pledge to cut our
defense budgets by two-thirds, reappropriating $200 billion a year in
America alone and . . . to build enlightened, disarmed democracies” in
Tibet and elsewhere.33
Eighth: “We pledge to make lifelong education for all citizens the nation’s
top priority.”34
Ninth: “We reaffirm the enlightenment principle of altruistic support for
all, implementing rights to a job, education, shelter, sustenance, a healthy
environment, a universal health-care system along Canadian or European
lines, which would encompass a competitive plurality of health systems,
including Chinese, Tibetan, Indian, and others.”35
Tenth: “At the heart of our system, and in this hour of its crisis, we affirm
the need for strong executive leadership all democracies.”36
The reader gets the picture. This is a highly idiosyncratic political platform
and does not represent a collective Buddhist vision of America. However,
Thurman urges Westerners to adopt five political principles that are said
to derive from the spiritual precepts of Tibetan Buddhism: “transcendent
individualism, nonviolent pacifism, educational evolutionism, ecosocial
altruism, and universal democratism.”37
Thurman also advocates a “Second Renaissance,” which is the discovery
and application of the advanced “inner science” of ancient Tibetan Bud-
dhist precepts and practices. As the Robert Thurman website represents

Buddhist Myths and Visions of America 281
these ideas, Thurman is still promoting his enlightenment agenda for noble
purposes:
Professor Thurman’s scholarly and popular writings focus on the “inner
revolution” that individuals and societies successfully negotiate when
they achieve enlightenment. He defines this inner revolution as accurate
insight into the true nature of reality and determined compassion for the
suffering beings. He also works toward what he terms a “Second Renais-
sance,” which he sees currently taking place as Western culture goes
beyond the 14th-century European discovery of the natural sciences of
the ancient Greeks that catalyzed the “first renaissance” to discover and
apply in practice the advanced “inner science” of ancient Indian culture.38
In effect, Robert Thurman has offered a “vision quest for the creation
of a mandala of an enlightened America,”39 from his Tibetan Buddhist
perspective:
Most of the teachers from various enlightenment movements seem to
agree on one thing: If there is to be a renaissance and enlightenment
science in our times, it will have to begin in America. . . . The enlighten-
ment movement can bring a full range of identity-analysis tools as well
as self-esteem-building disciplines and arts so that Americans can realize
individual king- and queenship.40
Thurman is hopeful for America’s prospects of evolving into an enlight-
ened society, adding that: “There is much to build on in American modernity
and American spirit.”41 To be sure, Robert Thurman does not have the
authority, as the Dalai Lama certainly does, to promulgate his ten “planks”
and five principles for an enlightened America—as official Buddhist doc-
trine. However, Thurman exercises considerable influence as a popularizer
of Tibetan Buddhism in America today. For this, one must credit Thur-
man with having imparted a Buddhist-inspired mission of an enlightened
America, founded on spiritual principles that incarnate compassion for all
sentient beings, with justice and opportunity for all people, beginning in
America.
The Dalai Lama’s “Buddhist Democracy”
Myth and Vision of America’s World Role
What is a “Dalai Lama”? In Tibetan belief, the Dalai Lamas are manifes-
tations of Avalokitesvara, the Buddha of Compassion, called Chenrezig in
Tibetan. As enlightened beings who can see the past, present, and future
within multiple realms of existence, the Dalai Lamas are uniquely gifted in

282 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
the art of good governance. Unlike ordinary beings, the Dalai Lamas can
choose where to be reborn. In an unbroken succession over time, the posi-
tion of the Dalai Lama is passed from incarnation to incarnation to ensure
that the same enlightened being remains in power. When a Dalai Lama
passes away, a search task force is convened to locate his new reincarnation.
Once found, the child is brought to Lhasa, the capital of Tibet. That child is
then educated within the Tibetan Buddhist tradition, steeped in enlighten-
ment ideals, and trained to govern.42 This tradition was dramatized in the
Hollywood film, Kundun (1997), directed by Martin Scorsese (1997).
This is what happened with the current Dalai Lama. Born on July 6, 1935,
to a peasant family in a small village called Taktser in northeastern Tibet,
Lhamo Dhondrub, as the child was named, was, in accordance with Tibetan
tradition, recognized at the age of two as the reincarnation of his predeces-
sor the thirteenth Dalai Lama, and thus an incarnation of Avalokitesvara.
Lhamo Dhondrub then became His Holiness, the fourteenth Dalai Lama,
Tenzin Gyatso. The new Dalai Lama was enthroned on February 22, 1940,
in Lhasa, capital of Tibet.
At the age of six, the young Dalai Lama began his intensive Buddhist
education. At 25, he received his Doctorate of Buddhist Philosophy in 1959.
After some 80,000 Peoples Liberation Army soldiers invaded and captured
Tibet, the Dalai Lama assumed full political power as head of state on
November 17, 1950. In 1959, after a massive demonstration demanding
that China leave Tibet and recognize Tibet’s independence, the “Tibetan
National Uprising” was brutally crushed by the Chinese military. Disguised
as a soldier, the Dalai Lama escaped, on horseback, to India, where he was
granted political asylum. He was followed into exile by some 80,000 Tibetan
refugees. Today, more than 120,000 Tibetans are living in exile. Since 1960,
the Dalai Lama has resided in Dharamsala, known as “Little Lhasa,” seat of
the Tibetan government-in-exile.
In 1963, the Dalai Lama drafted and promulgated a proposed constitu-
tion for a future Tibet, promulgated on March 10, 1963. The preamble of
the constitution, while clearly modeled on the U.S. Constitution, invokes
Buddhist principles:
Whereas it is deemed desirable and necessary that the principles of justice,
equality and democracy laid down by the Lord Buddha should be rein-
forced and strengthened in the government of Tibet . . . now, therefore,
His Holiness the Dalai Lama has been pleased to ordain [this constitu-
tion] as follows . . . 43
Similarly, the Foreword of the Tibetan Constitution states:
This [Constitution] takes into consideration the doctrines enunciated by
the Lord Buddha, the spiritual and temporal heritage of Tibet and the

Buddhist Myths and Visions of America 283
ideas and ideals of the modern world. It is thus intended to secure for the
people of Tibet a system of democracy based on justice and equality and
ensure their cultural, religious and economic advancement.44
To advance the Tibetan cause of independence, the Dalai Lama has fashioned
a model constitution that adroitly embodies Buddhist ideals, democratic
principles of good governance, and progressive economic reforms. A
longtime advocate of democracy, the Dalai Lama, while drafting this consti-
tution, thoughtfully reflected:
Even prior to my departure from Tibet . . . I had come to the conclusion
that in the changing circumstances of the modern world the system of
governance in Tibet must be so modified and amended as to allow the
elected representatives of the people to play a more effective role in guid-
ing and shaping the social and economic policies of the State. I also firmly
believed that this could only be done through democratic institutions
based on social and economic justice.45
With the Dalai Lama represented as head of state, leaders of the National
Democratic Party for Tibet, a political party founded by Tibetan exiles in
India in 1994, have commented on its uniqueness: “Tibetan democracy is
unique in many ways. Its principal characteristic is that it has been gifted by
His Holiness the Dalai Lama himself even at the open reluctance or sheer
indifference of the Tibetan public. It is, therefore, immensely sacred and
precious.”46 After his many years of efforts to regain the independence of
Tibet, on December 11, 1989, the Dalai Lama was awarded the Nobel Peace
Prize.47 On that memorable day, the Dalai Lama spoke on his proposed “Five
Point Peace Plan,” entailing a broader understanding of what peace entails:
Peace, in the sense of the absence of war, is of little value to someone who
is dying of hunger or cold. It will not remove the pain of torture inflicted
on a prisoner of conscience. It does not comfort those who have lost their
loved ones in floods caused by senseless deforestation in a neighboring
country. Peace can only last where human rights are respected, where the
people are fed, and where individuals and nations are free. True peace
with one’s self and with the world around us can only be achieved through
the development of mental peace.48
“Mental peace” is where spiritual orientation and discipline come in.
Buddhism provides an instrumentality for developing this internal equa-
nimity and composure from which peaceful actions and reactions flow:
“Inner peace is the key: If you have inner peace, the external problems do
not affect your deep sense of peace and tranquillity. In that state of mind
you can deal with situations with calmness and reason, while keeping your

284 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
inner happiness.”49 (This connection with Buddhism is only implied, how-
ever, as the Dalai Lama’s only reference to Buddhism in this speech was to
“Tibet’s historic role as a peaceful Buddhist nation.”) That much may work
for inner peace. But what about international peace? As the world’s super-
power, what is America’s role in the world today, from the Dalai Lama’s
perspective?
The Dalai Lama has made forthright—albeit diplomatically measured—
statements about America’s mission and destiny that repay study. Two years
after he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1989, the Dalai Lama spoke
of America’s role in the world today:
So in this respect, our entire humanity has a responsibility, particularly this
nation. Among others, you have economic power, but the most important
thing you have is the opportunity to utilize your human creativity. This is
something very good. Therefore, I think America has the potential to make
this world straight. Certain activities or certain atmospheres are unhealthy
and seem to be very crooked. I think in order to make them straight and
more honest, with more human feeling, this nation has the real potential
and the ability to correct those smaller nations trying to change the world,
but the existing pattern may face some immediate consequences which
they cannot face. I think this nation is the only superpower. Therefore, I
think you have the opportunity or ability to change it.50
The Dalai Lama’s statement—“America has the potential to make this
world straight”—is a clear recognition of America’s world role both eco-
nomically and spiritually. But there is a political dimension as well. In a
1995 discourse, the Tibetan Buddhist leader stated:
The United States must not underestimate its role in the world today.
As Americans you should be proud of your heritage, proud of the values
upon which your Constitution is based. Accordingly, you should not shirk
from your responsibility to bring those same fundamental rights and free-
doms to people living under totalitarian regimes.51
While made by a religious leader, neither of these statements is inherently
religious. In fact, they are covertly if not overtly political. In speaking of
“people living under totalitarian regimes” generally, he surely has in mind
the people of Tibet particularly.
The Dalai Lama clearly links democracy and Buddhism, seeing the for-
mer in terms of the latter: “While it is true that no system of government is
perfect, democracy is the closest to our essential human nature and allows
us the greatest opportunity to cultivate a sense of universal responsibil-
ity.”52 This is as overt a Buddhist endorsement of democracy as possible.
The Dalai Lama, throughout his discourse, strikes linkages between Bud-
dhist beliefs and democratic concepts, such as First Amendment freedoms

Buddhist Myths and Visions of America 285
and consensus building. In so doing, the Dalai Lama goes beyond draw-
ing parallels to suggest that bringing a Buddhist influence to bear on
democracy would be a good thing: “As a Buddhist, I strongly believe in a
humane approach to democracy, an approach that recognizes the impor-
tance of the individual without sacrificing a sense of responsibility toward
all humanity.”53
In conclusion, one finds that Buddhism in America variously sees Amer-
ica either as a mission field for the propagation of Buddhism (Soka Gakkai)
or sees America as having the potential for developing an enlightened soci-
ety (Robert Thurman), which, in turn, will empower America to pursue
its world role in furthering universal democracy, human rights, prosper-
ity, education, freedom, and compassion (Dalai Lama), in an enlightened
self-interest that can ultimately potentialize the self, through acts of self-
lessness. What is the Buddhist vision of America in a nutshell?: Through
the first principles of Buddhist enlightenment, America can achieve a “Sec-
ond Renaissance.”
Figure 11.2. SGI-USA Buddhist practitioners chanting “Nam-myoho-renge-kyo” at
grand opening of Atlanta, Georgia SGI-USA Buddhist Center (South Zone) on April
5, 2014. These Buddhists variously chant for peace throughout the world and the
happiness of all beings, for personal enlightenment (awakening the Buddha nature
within) and for the fulfillment of wishes in the present and future, depending on
individual needs and progress along the Buddhist path. Like prayer in theistic tra-
ditions, chanting is believed to be effective in optimizing physical and spiritual
cause-and-effect forces by means of the “mystic law” of the universe, as taught in
the Lotus Sutra. (Photo courtesy of Soka Gakkai International USA. Photo credit:
Lucy Estephanos.)

286 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Chapter 11 Update: America—A Bodhisattva Nation?
Our goal —
the Second American Renaissance . . .
Grip the rudder,
hold firm to your course —
the Stars and Stripes,
the tricolor flag of the SGI,
ripple as a hopeful breeze fills our sails . . .
Our destination —
America’s distant future, . . .
the brilliant glory of human harmony.
—Daisaku Ikeda (1993)54
Daisaku Ikeda transformed Soka Gakkai’s teachings into a gospel of peace.
This was a dramatic transformation from the period of the 1970s, in
which Soka Gakkai International (SGI) practitioners, as followers of Nichi-
ren Buddhism, typically chanted for money, material success, and even for
sex. (The present writer had witnessed this personally.) That this mate-
rialistic orientation persisted as a stereotype is admitted in a 2014 SGI
publication—Waking the Buddha: How the Most Dynamic and Empowering Bud-
dhist Movement in History is Changing Our Concept of Religion—written by Clark
Strand, a former Zen Buddhist monk who currently serves as a contributing
editor of Tricycle: The Buddhist Review.55 As a “religion writer,”56 Strand is not
an SGI practitioner, but obviously has great respect for this highly multicul-
tural and international movement of Buddhist “humanism.”57 Strand notes
that the first founder of SGI, Nichiren, taught that “ordinary people could
change their karma and attain enlightenment in this lifetime simply by
chanting Nam-myoho-renge-kyo.”58 This practice was a “revolutionary vision
of Buddhism.”59 It “empowered lay people to take charge of their spiritual
and material destiny.”60
To this day, SGI practitioners enshrine, in their homes, a sacred “object
of devotion,” called the Gohonzon scroll, and “chant Nam-myoho-renge-kyo
to [the Gohonzon] each morning and evening.”61 Although other Buddhist
texts are acknowledged, SGI holds that the Lotus Sutra enshrines the high-
est teachings of the Buddha, so much so that simply venerating its title (in
Japanese, myoho-renge-kyo, prefixed by the Sanskrit verb, Nam, “to honor”)
through chanting, morning and evening, is sufficient to transform one’s
life and destiny. By means of chanting and engaging with the “Mystic Law”
(as the sacred phrase, Nam-myoho-renge-kyo, is reverently called), the practi-
tioner begins to “wake the Buddha” within.62 Self-benefit is seen as a path
towards self-realization. When the passion-driven self sees itself in relation
to others, then the Buddha-nature self awakens, transforming selfish desire
into a universal compassion that seeks the benefit of others.

Buddhist Myths and Visions of America 287
This is nothing other than the Buddha-nature “self” taught in the Nir-
vana Sutra (Maha¯parinirva¯n.a Sa¯tra) and other Mahayana Buddhist texts. The
doctrine of the Buddha-Nature, unknown in Therava¯da Buddhism, arose
within Maha¯ya¯na Buddhism, from which SGI sprang. Based on the teach-
ings of Japanese Buddhism as taught by the 13th-century Buddhist reformer,
Nichiren Daishonin (1222–1282), Soka Gakkai (literally, “Value-Creating
Society”) was founded in 1930 by Tsunesaburo Makiguchi (1871–1944).
Josei Toda (1900–1958) was Makiguchi’s successor. During Toda’s leader-
ship, the Soka Gakkai, which had some 3,000 members before World War
II, grew to over 750,000 households by late 1957 before his death the fol-
lowing year, as had been his goal. Daisaku Ikeda succeeded him in 1960 as
third president, and immediately began plans to travel abroad, first to the
United States, to encourage a handful of Soka Gakkai members that lived
there. This was the start of the global spread of Soka Gakkai. On Janu-
ary 26, 1975, on the island of Guam, Daisaku Ikeda founded Soka Gakkai
International (SGI). On this historic occasion, Ikeda convened a gathering
of representative members from 51 countries and territories. At that criti-
cal juncture, the movement consciously transcended the boundaries of an
ethnically Japanese religion. While affirming, true to its history, its Japanese
origin, SGI proclaimed its universal mission.
Strand goes on to say that “Soka Gakkai is Buddhism taken as far as
Buddhism—or, for that matter, any religion—can go.”63 Yes, it is a gigantic
step from SGI’s first founder, Tsunesaburo Makiguchi, through its second
founder, Josei Todai, to SGI’s third founder, Daisaku Ikeda. Ikea has taken
Nichiren Buddhism from the practice of simply chanting a Buddhist man-
tra (in this case, chanting the “daimoku” or “title” of the Lotus Sutra)64 as
a means to direct enlightenment to promoting world peace through the
“human revolution” of inner-directed personal development. Strand cred-
its SGI’s transformation to Ikeda’s “internationalization of the movement”
when SGI was formally established on Guam in 1975 (thus marking the
missionary expansion from its origin in Japan) and, prior to that, by “Ike-
da’s first trip to America” in 1960.65 According to Strand, Ikeda’s message
is “promoting world peace through individual happiness.”66
Since then, SGI has established itself globally. Its remarkable growth is
a clear measure of its success. In representing its message as universal, no
single country has special status (apart from Japan’s distinction as SGI’s
place of origin). So, in the 2009 publication of this book, SGI’s perspective
on America was selective. In that sense, the present writer has privileged
America. Yet this is justified by the manner in which Ikeda himself has
described America’s spiritual potential.
Earlier in this chapter, excerpts from Ikeda’s Songs for America67 were cited.
This slender volume features four prose-poems: “Soar—Into the Vast Skies
of Freedom! Into the New Century!” (July 21, 2000); “The Sun of Jiyu Over
A New Land” (January 27, 1993); “Arise, the Sun of the Century” (February
26, 1987); “To My Beloved American Friends—Youthful Bodhisattvas of the

288 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Earth” (June 20, 1981). More poems on America have been “in the works”
since the 2009 publication of Religious Myths and Visions of America. Newly
published poems, to be sure, reaffirming what was previously published.
One notable example will demonstrate this point.
In 2014, I. B. Taurus published Journey of Life: Selected Poems of Daisaku
Ikeda, the first of three volumes (two forthcoming) of Ikeda’s poetry trans-
lated from the original Japanese.68 I. B. Taurus has published over a dozen
other titles by Ikeda as well, including lectures and dialogues with high-
profile religious and political leaders. In addition to being a prolific writer
of dialogues, lectures, essays, philosophical writings, novels and children’s
books, Ikeda is also an accomplished poet.
Let there be no mistake about Ikeda’s praise of other countries. Through-
out Journey of Life, poems are devoted to a diverse array of countries as
Japan, Italy, India, Malaysia, Okinawa, the Philippines, as well as America.
For instance, in “Toll the bell of the new renaissance: To my dear fellow
members of Italy,” Ikeda calls upon SGI’s Italian practitioners to be “stan-
dard-bearers of a new renaissance.”69 Of course, the comparison here is to
the Italian Renaissance. Carrying this metaphor forward, in Italy today, a
magazine called Il Nuovo Rinascimento [The New Renaissance] is published
for SGI members.
Later in the collection, Ikeda invokes the American Renaissance (also
called New England Renaissance). Ikeda’s “The Sun of Jiyu over a New Land:
To My Treasured Friends of Los Angeles, the City of My Dreams” (which
previously appeared in Songs for America) is a 13-page poem presented at
the Second SGI-USA General Meeting, held in Santa Monica, California, on
January 27, 1993.70 The poem was presented in a speech on the occasion of
the Second SGI-USA General Meeting, held in Santa Monica, California, on
January 27, 1993.71 Significantly, President Ikeda presented “The Sun of Jiyu
over a New Land” to SGI-USA members in Los Angeles after the 1992 Los
Angeles riots triggered by the acquittal of police on trial for use of excessive
force and brutality in the arrest of Rodney King, a videotape of which had
been widely shown in various media.
Some interesting information is found in these verses. The reader learns
that the future world headquarters of SGI will be in Los Angeles (“And here
rises the splendid form / of the future site of the SGI headquarters”).72 Just
as “Kansai is the heart . . . for kosen-rufu in Japan,” so “Los Angeles plays
this self-same role for the entire world.”73 (Loosely, Ko¯sen-rufu means “proc-
lamation” of the Buddhist message, far and wide, resulting in widespread
acceptance of that message.)
In “The Sun of Jiyu Over a New Land,” Ikeda invokes the metaphor of
a ship on its journey to “our destination—America’s distant future.”74 The
sails of the SGI ship are “the Stars and Stripes” and the “tricolor flag of
the SGI.”75 Ikeda calls for his followers to transcend their “lesser self”
(described as a “hard shell” and aspire to “realize” and awaken their innate
“greater self”76 of compassion for the suffering of others and a resolve to do

Buddhist Myths and Visions of America 289
something to alleviate it. SGI Buddhists use the term “human revolution”
(i.e., human transformation) to describe this process. Here, this form of
Buddhism appears to abandon the traditional Buddhist notion of “no-self”
in favor of cultivating the Buddha-nature self.
Another poem—which also appeared in Songs for America—is “Arise,
the Sun of the Century.”77 Ikeda calls upon his followers to be “model citi-
zens.”78 “Take compassionate action for others.”79 Good teachings these are,
since they are exhortations to goodly deeds. In “The Triumph of the Human
Spirit,” Ikeda defines “Renaissance”:
The word renaissance signifies
the radiant triumph of the human spirit,
the full flowering of
the infinite power and potential
of a single individual,
the grand undertaking of constructing
a magnificent sense of self,
a new society.80
Speaking of Ralph Waldo Emerson and Henry David Thoreau, Ikeda goes
on to say:
Let us set out in quest
of the dawn of a new renaissance,
guided on this
vivid journey of inquiry
by two great American scholars.81
Another of Ikeda’s works is America Will Be! Conversations on Hope, Freedom,
and Democracy.82 This is a dialogue between Ikeda and American historian
Vincent Harding, friend and advisor to the late Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,
won the 2014 “Society of Professors of Education Book Award,” according
to the publisher. While an engaging interchange on America, the present
writer could find no definitive pronouncement by Ikeda on any significance
that SGI itself might attach to America. This is not surprising, since the
dialogue was between two individuals, not representatives acting in their
respective official capacities.
The foundation of SGI spirituality is “the Mystic Law,” defined as “The
ultimate law of life and the universe. The law of Nam-myoho-renge-kyo.”83
This practice has its roots in the 13th-century. Nichiren Daishonin consid-
ered the Lotus Sutra superior to all other Buddhist texts. On April 28, 1253,
Nichiren established the practice of chanting Nam-myoho-renge-kyo—which
is simply venerating the title of the Lotus Sutra itself as the supreme Bud-
dhist text. He taught that “this phrase encompasses all laws and teachings
within itself.”84 Chanting, moreover, “includes the benefit of conducting

290 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
all virtuous practices.”85 Nam-myoho-renge-kyo is defined by present-day SGI
practitioners so: “Nam means ‘devotion to; myoho means ‘Mystic Law’; renge
refers to the lotus flower, . . . ; kyo means sutra, the teaching of the Bud-
dha.”86 Why (and how) venerating the Lotus Sutra by invoking its title (as
translated into Japanese) is not obvious, except that it is a means to sudden
enlightenment by awakening the Buddha-nature self within. For the one
who vests confidence in the practice, chanting somehow triggers paranor-
mal powers.
Although Ikeda affirms that “Buddhism is reason,”87 whatever causal
explanation as to how chanting results in personal and social transforma-
tion ultimately is a matter of faith. The practice of chanting is self-validating,
provided that it bears fruit, whether real or imagined. That must be why the
“Mystic Law” is “mystic.” Somehow, “devotion to the mystic law of cause
and effect through sound vibration” potentializes the latent Buddha-nature.
To invoke the essence of the Lotus Sutra, through intonation, is to evoke the
essential Buddha inside—some way, somehow. Perhaps it’s all a matter of
faith, as in most any devotional practice. Thus chanting is regarded as the
most expedient means for tapping into and awakening the “Buddha-nature
self” dormant within.
Put differently, Buddhist practice and Buddha nature are part of an
“if-then” equation. While a direct, cause-and-effect linkage between the
“Mystic Law”—set in motion by chanting Nam-myoho-renge-kyo to the Gohon-
zon morning and evening—and—is not readily apparent, what is striking
is how Ikeda has transformed SGI into the altruistic religious organization
that it is today. SGI is committed to “engaged Buddhism,” that is, Bud-
dhism with a social gospel and mission. The ethical teachings of SGI are
noteworthy, whereby SGI adherents are encouraged to dedicate their time
and treasure to the betterment of society and the amelioration of human
suffering.
Another teaching that is an anomaly within Nichiren Buddhism is the
emphasis on self and desire, when traditional Buddhism teaches the doc-
trine of “no self” and cessation of desire as a path to liberation. Consider
Ikeda’s teaching: “Buddhism means putting the teachings and practice.
Practice equals faith. With sincere prayer and action, our desires cannot
possibly fail to be fulfilled.”88 Clark Strand, whose 2014 book, Waking the
Buddha, at the beginning of this chapter update, posed this very question to
President Ikeda in a 2008 Tricycle interview.89 Clark asks Ikeda:
Nichiren Buddhists chant the daimoku [Nam-myoho-renge-kyo] to get what
they want—a successful career, better health, a good marriage, even world
peace. Nevertheless, from a purely traditional point of view, it would seem
a violation of basic Buddhist doctrine to chant for the satisfaction of earthly
desires rather than striving to overcome them. Isn’t this a contradiction?90
This is Ikeda’s reply:

Buddhist Myths and Visions of America 291
If you think that the purpose of religion is happiness, there really is no
contradiction. The ideal of Mahayana Buddhism is the realization of hap-
piness for oneself and for others. Nowhere is this more completely set out
than in the Lotus Sutra, which recognizes the Buddha-nature in all peo-
ple—women and men, those with formal education and those without.
It declares that all people, without regard to their class, origin, personal,
cultural, or social background, can attain enlightenment. Our recitation of
the title of the Lotus Sutra is a way of renewing our vow to live in accord
with this ideal.91
Here, “the realization of happiness for oneself and for others” is conjunc-
tive, not disjunctive—i.e., “and” is what is paramount, not “or.” Divorced
from the happiness of others, individual happiness may come at the expense
of others. The insistent self is a narrowly focused, immature, limited. Self-
ishness is a cul-de-sac, a moral and social dead end. Perhaps the answer is
found in making the quantum leap from the “lesser self” to the “greater
self”92—that is, the Buddha-nature self, the selfless self, whose desires,
motivated by compassion, are altruistic. For its part, America has a “world
role” as the future hub of SGI, where the “tricolor flag of the SGI” flies side-
by-side with “the Stars and Stripes”93 as the SGI-USA flagship advances
toward “our destination—America’s distant future.”94 Here, America’s des-
tiny is seen as bound up with the progress of Buddhism, in its SGI form.
SGI adherents, the world over, are challenging themselves to surmount
the individual ego, i.e., the “lesser self” (Japanese: shoga), in each, and
develop the “greater self” (Japanese: taiga) for one and all. Here, SGI makes
axiomatic this moral calculus: a person’s capacity for joy can increase to the
degree that this same individual strives to bring about the joy of others. In
this sense, altruism has a reflexive effect: it is good to do good, not only
for the welfare of others, but for one’s own good as well. Cultivated to a
refined degree, such altruism goes beyond enlightened self-interest. And so
the part-to-whole dynamic is energized, in what might be thought of as an
intentional “butterfly effect” that goes beyond chaos theory. As President
Ikeda famously said: “‘A great inner revolution in just a single individual
will help achieve a change in the destiny of a nation and, further, will enable
a change in the destiny of all humankind’—this was the conviction that
dominated all my writing.”95 Each person can make a difference. Through
dialogue and friendship, SGI practitioners hope to help individuals awaken
to their innate potential and surmount the limitations that they may have
placed on themselves.
In the SGI view, America is not a special nation intrinsically, but is so
extrinsically, in terms of its great capacity and wealth of resources. America
does not (or should not) act alone. Daisaku Ikeda’s gospel of global citizen-
ship derives from his insight into the bodhisattva’s vow of compassion, to
seek enlightenment both for one’s self and others. “What, pray tell,” the
reader may ask, “is a bodhisattva?” The Oxford English Dictionary offers this

292 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
definition: “One destined to become a Buddha; a Buddhist saint who, having
only one birth to undergo before attaining Nirvana, consents to be reborn
for the sake of suffering mankind; a superhuman being of infinite wisdom
and compassion.” As a community of informal bodhisattvas, SGI members
believe that every individual—American SGI Buddhists included—has a
mission in this world and has something of value to contribute. President
Ikeda has singled out American SGI Buddhists with a special sense of mis-
sion and purpose, in his message published on the first anniversary of the
9/11 terrorist attacks:
It is my unchanging belief that the happiness and future of humanity
depends on the United States. By the United States, I mean each of you,
the members of the SGI-USA. The spread of Nichiren Buddhism in Amer-
ica is the path leading to its spread throughout the world. In this sense, all
of you are world leaders. . . . I am always praying earnestly for the health
and great happiness of my precious, precious friends in the SGI-USA, each
of whom is standing up to fulfill a magnificent mission, as well as for the
eternal development and prosperity of America.96
Taken to a higher level, and extrapolating from SGI teachings them-
selves, the present writer can venture to say that the SGI view of America
is basically that the United States should taken a national vow to become a
bodhisattva nation internationally. Comparatively, as a concluding postscript
for this chapter, the Dalai Lama’s teachings on America’s world role have
remained virtually the same since this book was first published in 2009. On
March 6, 2014, the Dalai Lama opened a session of the U.S. Senate with
prayers. Afterward, the Dalai Lama said that he considered America to be
“really a champion of democracy, freedom.” “These traditional values are, I
think, very, very relevant in today’s world,” the Dalai Lama went on to say.
“After all, you are the leading nation in the free world. So, (show) self-con-
fidence.”97 The Dalai Lama’s message is consistent. “America is a champion
of democracy and liberty,” the Dalai Lama told his American audience of
over 3,500 listeners at Nova Southeastern University in Davie, Florida on
February 23, 2010. “You should be proud of those values.”98
Notes

1. Dalai Lama, “Remarks by His Holiness the Dalai Lama to the Members of
the United States Congress in the Rotunda of the Capitol Hill in Washing-
ton, D.C., 18 April 1991.” Matthew E. Bunson, ed., The Wisdom Teachings of
the Dalai Lama (New York: Plume, 1997), 226.

2. Robert Thurman, “Christian Experiences with Buddhist Spirituality: A
Response.” Buddhist-Christian Studies 21.1 (2001): 69–72 [69].

3. Ibid., 69.

Buddhist Myths and Visions of America 293

4. Daniel Métraux, “Soka Gakkai International: The Global Expansion of a
Japanese Buddhist Movement.” Religion Compass 7 (2013): 423–432 [427].

5. Robert S. Ellwood, “East Asian Religions in Today’s America.” World Reli-
gions in America. Ed. Jacob Neusner (Louisville, KY: Westminster John Knox
Press, 2000), 154–171 [166].

6. Antonio R. Gualtieri, “Founders and Apostates.” Journal of the American
Academy of Religion 1993, 61.1 (Spring 1993): 101–122.

7. Ibid., 101.

8. Ibid., 119.

9. Ibid., 119.

10. Daisaku Ikeda, Songs for America: Poems (Mount Rainier, MD: World Tribune
Press, 2000).

11. Ibid., 14–15.

12. Ibid., 37.

13. Ibid., 37.

14. Ibid., 63.

15. Ibid., 65.

16. Ibid., 33.

17. Ibid., 37.

18. Ibid., 67.

19. Ibid., 43.

20. Ibid., 49.

21. Daisaku Ikeda, My Dear Friends in America: Collected U.S. Speeches (Mount
Rainier, MD: World Tribune Press, 2001).

22. Ibid., 158.

23. Ibid., 215.

24. Robert Thurman, Inner Revolution: Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Real Happi-
ness (New York: Putnam/Riverhead Books, 1998), 18.

25. Ibid., 221.

26. Ibid., 306.

27. Ibid., 307.

28. Ibid., 308.

29. Ibid., 309.

30. Ibid., 310.

31. Ibid., 311.

32. Ibid., 312.

33. Ibid., 313.

34. Ibid., 315.

35. Ibid., 317.

36. Ibid., 319.

37. Ibid., 301.

38. “Robert A. F. Thurman” website.

39. Thurman, Inner Revolution, 221.

40. Ibid., 280.

41. Ibid., 282.

42. Dalai Lama, qtd. in Ann Frechette, “Democracy and Democratization
among Tibetans in Exile.” Journal of Asian Studies 66.1 (February 2007):
97–127 [107].

294 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America

43. Dalai Lama, Constitution of Tibet (Delhi: Bureau of His Holiness the Dalai
Lama, 1963). Qtd. in Frechette, “Democracy and Democratization,” 108.

44. Dalai Lama, Constitution of Tibet. Qtd. in Frechette, “Democracy and Democ-
ratization,” 108–109.

45. Frechette, “Democracy and Democratization,” 105.

46. Qtd. in Frechette, “Democracy and Democratization,” 116.

47. Biographical facts based on Dalai Lama’s official biographical sketch, “The
Dalai Lama’s Biography.”

48. Dalai Lama, “His Holiness the Dalai Lama’s Nobel Lecture, University
Aula, Oslo, December 11th, 1989.”

49. Ibid.

50. Dalai Lama, “Remarks by His Holiness the Dalai Lama to the Members of
the United States Congress in the Rotunda of the Capitol Hill in Wash-
ington, D.C., 18 April 1991.” Bunson, Wisdom Teachings of the Dalai Lama,
226.

51. Dalai Lama, “Statement by His Holiness the XIV Dalai Lama on His Visit
to the United States, September 1995.” Bunson, Wisdom Teachings of the
Dalai Lama, 224.

52. Dalai Lama, “Buddhism, Asian Values and Democracy.” Journal of Democracy
10.1 (January 1999): 3–7 [4].

53. Ibid., 4.

54. Daisaku Ikeda, “The Sun of Jiyu over a New Land: To My Treasured Friends
of Los Angeles, the City of My Dreams” (January 27, 1993), Journey of Life:
Selected Poems of Daisaku Ikeda (London/New York: I.B. Taurus, 2014), 236–
249 [245, 248]. (The poem ends on page 248, followed by endnotes.)

55. Clark Strand, Waking the Buddha: How the Most Dynamic and Empowering Bud-
dhist Movement in History is Changing Our Concept of Religion (Santa Monica,
CA: Middleway Press, 2014), 12–13.

56. Strand, Waking the Buddha, 118.

57. Strand, Waking the Buddha, 143–144.

58. Strand, Waking the Buddha, 6.

59. Strand, Waking the Buddha, 6.

60. Strand, Waking the Buddha, 6.

61. Strand, Waking the Buddha, 112.

62. Strand, Waking the Buddha, 113.

63. Strand, Waking the Buddha, 25.

64. Strand, Waking the Buddha, 30.

65. Strand, Waking the Buddha, 30.

66. Strand, Waking the Buddha, 178.

67. Daisaku Ikeda, Songs for America: Poems (Mount Rainier, MD: World Tribune
Press, 2000).

68. Daisaku Ikeda, Journey of Life: Selected Poems of Daisaku Ikeda (London/New
York: I.B. Taurus, 2014).

69. Ikeda, Journey of Life, 105–116 [109].

70. Daisaku Ikeda, “The Sun of Jiyu over a New Land: To My Treasured Friends
of Los Angeles, the City of My Dreams” (January 27, 1993), Journey of Life:
Selected Poems of Daisaku Ikeda (London/New York: I.B. Taurus, 2014), 236–
249. (The poem ends on page 248, followed by endnotes.)

Buddhist Myths and Visions of America 295

71. Daisaku Ikeda, “Let Us Strive Together Toward Even Greater Develop-
ment,” My Dear Friends in America: Collected U.S. Speeches (Mount Rainier,
MD: World Tribune Press, 2001), 195–213 [200–213].

72. Ikeda, Journey of Life, 247.

73. Ikeda, Journey of Life, 238–239.

74. Ikeda, Journey of Life, 248.

75. Ikeda, Journey of Life, 248.

76. Ikeda, Journey of Life, 244.

77. Ikeda, Journey of Life, 94–104 (February 26, 1987). The also Ikeda, My Dear
Friends in America, 442.

78. Ikeda, Journey of Life, 97.

79. Ikeda, Journey of Life, 97.

80. Ikeda, Journey of Life, 372–377 [375].

81. Ikeda, Journey of Life, 377.

82. Vincent Harding and Daisaku Ikeda, America Will Be! Conversations on Hope,
Freedom, and Democracy (Cambridge, MA: Dialogue Path Press, 2013).

83. Ikeda, My Dear Friends in America, 442.

84. Ikeda, My Dear Friends in America, 442.

85. Ikeda, My Dear Friends in America, 442.

86. Ikeda, My Dear Friends in America, 442.

87. Ikeda, Journey of Life, 245.

88. Ikeda, My Dear Friends in America, 197.

89. Clark Strand, “Faith in Revolution,” Tricycle (Winter 2008). See http://www.
tricycle.com/interview/faith-revolution. (Accessed December 13, 2014.)

90. Ibid.

91. Ibid.

92. Ikeda, Journey of Life, 244.

93. Ikeda, Journey of Life, 248.

94. Ikeda, Journey of Life, 248.

95. Daisaku Ikeda, The Human Revolution. Book One. Abridged Edition (Santa
Monica: World Tribune Press, 2004), viii.

96. Daisaku Ikeda, “The Future Begins With America: The Anniversary of Sept.
11.” World Tribune (September 6, 2002): 1.

97. Dalai Lama, “Dalai Lama Encourages ‘Self-confident’ US Global Role” (video).
See https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LwvGwgIBRvg. (Accessed November
20, 2014.)

98. The Dalai Lama, “Universal Responsibility,” qtd. in James D. Davis, “Dalai
Lama Urges U.S. to Spread Democracy.” McClatchy–Tribune Business News
(February 24, 2010).

Figure 12.1. Baha’i House of Worship in Wilmette, Illinois. Mission statement:
“The central purpose of the Baha’i Faith is to contribute to global unity and help build
spiritually and materially vibrant communities.”
See http://www.bahaitemple.com/. (Photo courtesy of David Smith.)

Chapter 12
Baha’i Myths and
Visions of America
The American people are indeed worthy of being the first to build the Tab-
ernacle of the Great Peace, and proclaim the oneness of mankind. . . . For
America hath developed powers and capacities greater and more wonderful
than other nations. . . . Its future is even more promising, for its influence
and illumination are far-reaching. It will lead all nations spiritually.
—‘Abdu’l-Baha (1912)1
Exert yourselves; your mission is unspeakably glorious. Should success
crown your enterprise, America will assuredly evolve into a center from
which waves of spiritual power will emanate, and the throne of the King-
dom of God will, in the plentitude of its majesty and glory, be firmly
established.
—‘Abdu’l-Baha (1917)2
As America continues to diversify, one new religion seeks to unify: the
Baha’i Faith.
The Baha’i Faith, historically, dates back to 1844. “The Baha’i Faith is
the youngest of the world’s independent religions,” states the official web-
site of the Baha’i World Centre, located on Mount Carmel in Haifa, Israel.3
Established in 189 independent countries and 46 territories, the Baha’i
community today numbers around seven million members, who hail from
across the world’s races, religions, and nations, including over 2,100 dif-
ferent ethnicities. The Baha’i Faith preaches a gospel of unity, and it has a
global community to match and to model the potentialities of its grander
vision. The distinctive nature of the Baha’i Faith is its emphasis on promot-
ing the oneness of humankind and bringing about world unity. “In every
Dispensation, the light of Divine Guidance has been focused upon one
central theme,” proclaims ‘Abdu’l-Baha (1844–1921), son of and successor
to Baha’u’llah (1817–1892), prophet-founder of the Baha’i Faith. “In this
wondrous Revelation, this glorious century, the foundation of the Faith of

298 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
God and the distinguishing feature of His Law is the consciousness of the
Oneness of Mankind.”4 This is the hallmark, the salient leitmotiv, the orga-
nizing principle, the moral basis, and the grand vision of the Baha’i Faith as
a whole. As such, Baha’is, whether in America or abroad, are described as
the “bearers of a new-born Gospel.”5 A previously little-known religion, the
Baha’i Faith is emerging from obscurity, as the following newsworthy items
will demonstrate.
On July 8, 2008, the UNESCO World Heritage Committee determined
that two Baha’i shrines in Israel—the Shrine of the Bab on Mount Carmel
in Haifa, Israel, and the Shrine of Baha’u’llah, located near Old Acre on
Israel’s northern coast, possess “outstanding universal value” and should be
considered as part of the cultural heritage of humanity.6 Joining such other
internationally recognized sites like the Great Wall of China, the Pyramids,
the Taj Mahal, Stonehenge, the Vatican, the Old City of Jerusalem, and the
remains of the recently destroyed Bamiyan Buddhist statues in Afghanistan,
the Baha’i shrines are the first sites associated with a religious tradition born
in modern times to be added to the list. Similarly, in 2007 the State of Illinois
announced that the Baha’i House of Worship in Wilmette (north of Chicago)
had been voted one of the “Seven Wonders” of Illinois (see Figure 12.1).7
Ideologically, the Baha’i perspective on the destiny of America should be
contextualized within the Baha’i paradigm of unity, and, more specifically,
within the Baha’i view of “sacred history” (or as systematic theologians
of Christian doctrine would term it, “salvation history”). That is to say,
America will fulfill a world-unifying purpose consonant with a larger civi-
lizational purpose for which the Baha’i religion sees its own instrumental
role. Briefly, the Baha’i Faith is a world religion whose purpose is to unite
all the races, religions, and nations into one common homeland. Baha’is are
the followers of Baha’u’llah, who essentially claimed to be a world-messiah,
fulfilling what are believed to be convergent prophecies from historically
prior world religions.8 In his epistle to Queen Victoria, written from his
prison cell in ‘Akká, Palestine around 1870, Baha’u’llah proclaims: “That
which the Lord hath ordained as the sovereign remedy and mightiest instru-
ment for the healing of all the world is the union of all its peoples in one
universal Cause, one common Faith.”9 This, in part, is a statement about
how it is now time for the peoples of the world, as a whole, to recognize
the essential oneness humanity—and of the world religions as well—as the
collective consciousness needed to bring about world peace, and that this
process will ultimately validate all faiths.
The Baha’i vision of the destiny of America is part of a grander vision
of social evolution, affecting the planet as a whole, which, in the course of
human events, will lead to a Golden Age of world unity—a unity charac-
terized not by regimented uniformity, but by spectacular diversity within
a morally and technically advanced global civilization. The unity that
the Baha’i Faith promotes is a guarantor of diversity by fostering social
environments where diversity can flourish, thereby enriching the human

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 299
experience. As the epigraph above suggests, America “will lead all nations
spiritually.” What is the logic behind this claim? An even more basic ques-
tion is this: What is the character of this new religion that makes such an
auspicious claim regarding America?
A Brief Introduction to the Baha’i Faith
Before “social justice” served as the secular philosophy of modern democra-
cies, the great world religions had established ethical principles and social
laws for the ennobling of individuals and the ordering of societies. The
Baha’i Faith claims to be “endowed with a system of law, precept, and insti-
tutions capable of bringing into existence a global commonwealth ordered
by principles of social justice.”11 In the Baha’i hierarchy of values, social
justice is a cardinal principle. As a collective ethical orientation, the Baha’i
concept of social justice is intimately linked with the principle of unity.
“The purpose of justice,” declared Baha’u’llah, “is the appearance of unity
among men.”12 Unity, which is predicated on social justice, is thus the orga-
nizing principle of the Baha’i system of values. As such, a Baha’i theory of
social justice can be articulated from the Baha’i sacred writings themselves,
and amplified by official Baha’i statements at the diplomatic level. A brief
historical sketch of the religion will render a phenomenology of its social
justice/unity orientation more meaningful.
The Baha’i Faith developed from its roots in the Babi religion, a messianic
movement originating within Shi‘a Islam, yet bearing all of the earmarks of
a new and independent religion.13 Baha’i history dates back to the evening of
May 22, 1844, in the city of Shiraz in Persia (now Iran), when a young mer-
chant, Sayyid ‘Ali-Muhammad, declared himself to be the Bab (1819–1850),
or “Gate”—that is, a messenger from God sent to proclaim the imminent
advent of one greater than himself. Religious and state persecution fell upon
him and his followers, leading to the torture and religious martyrdom of
many. After the Bab was executed by a firing squad of 750 soldiers in the bar-
racks square of Tabriz on July 9, 1850, the majority of his coreligionists, the
Babis, turned to Mirza Husayn-‘Ali Nuri—known as Baha’u’llah (a spiritual
title, meaning the “Glory of God”)—as the messianic figure whose imminent
advent was the central religious message of the Bab.
Born to a high-ranking minister of the Shah in 1817 Tehran, Baha’u’llah
was incarcerated in a subterranean dungeon in 1852—because he was a
leader of the proscribed Babi religion—then was exiled to Baghdad in 1853,
where he remained until his subsequent exile to Istanbul (Constantinople)
and Edirne (Adrianople) in 1863, and from thence to the fortress prison
of Akka (Acre, Palestine, now Israel), where he arrived in August 1868.
One of the signal events of Baha’u’llah’s ministry was the public proclama-
tion of his mission, the purpose of which was to unify the world through
advanced social principles and new institutions. This proclamation may

300 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
also be regarded as one of the first international peace missions of modern
times. Beginning in September 1867, Baha’u’llah addressed individual and
collective epistles to world leaders—including Queen Victoria, Kaiser Wil-
helm I, Czar Alexander Nicholas II of Russia, Emperor Napoleon III, Pope
Pius IX, Emperor Franz Joseph, Sultan ‘Abdu’l-Aziz, Nasiri’d-Din Shah,
the presidents of the Americas collectively, among others—summoning
them to disarmament, reconciliation, justice, and the “Most Great Peace.”
Baha’u’llah also addressed the leaders of the Zoroastrian, Jewish, Christian,
and Muslim faiths, calling them to religious reconciliation and recognition
of Baha’u’llah as the promised messiah of all religions.
Upon his death in 1892, Baha’u’llah was succeeded, under the terms of his
will and testament, by his eldest son, ‘Abdu’l-Baha, who further developed
the Baha’i community in gradual application of the laws and precepts that
Baha’u’llah had laid down in his Most Holy Book (Arab, al-Kita¯b al-Aqdas;
Persian, Kita¯b-i Aqdas). When he was liberated by the Young Turks Revo-
lution in 1908, ‘Abdu’l-Baha traveled to Europe, North Africa, and North
America to promulgate his father’s principles of social justice and unity.
A frequent theme of his public addresses was interracial harmony, inter-
religious reconciliation, and ideal international relations. He also promoted
gender equality and the establishment of adjudicative organs to resolve inter-
national disputes. ‘Abdu’l-Baha lent great impetus to the spread of the Baha’i
Faith in America and abroad when he revealed his Tablets of the Divine Plan in
1916–1917. After his passing in 1921, and in accordance with the terms of
his will and testament, ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s eldest grandson, Shoghi Effendi (who
was studying at Oxford University at the time), assumed leadership of the
Baha’i world until his death in 1957. Based on the Tablets of the Divine Plan as
a model for fostering systematic growth, Shoghi Effendi (1897–1957) pro-
mulgated a series of expansive “Plans” for systematically establishing Baha’i
communities in a greater number of countries, territories, and locales—and
had the charisma to inspire their successful completion.
In his most important work (Kita¯b-i Aqdas), Baha’u’llah had called for the
establishment of a local House of Justice in every community. To distinguish
these from institutions with an agenda for political power, ‘Abdu’l-Baha gave
them the temporary title of “Spiritual Assemblies.” Each nine-member local
and National Spiritual Assembly, elected annually by all of the adult Baha’is
and their delegates in the respective local or national community, oversees
the growth and welfare of the Baha’i community within its jurisdiction,
fosters unity among the various elements of society, and furthers the work
of social and economic development.
In 1963, the Baha’i world had become sufficiently internationalized to
elect the first Universal House of Justice (the world Baha’i governing body)
in the Royal Albert Hall in London. With its Seat located in the Baha’i
World Centre on Mt. Carmel in Haifa, Israel, the Universal House of Jus-
tice—elected every five years by the members of all of the National Spiritual
Assemblies from around the world—administers the affairs of the Baha’i

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 301
world and promotes Baha’i principles of justice and unity worldwide. As
publicly declared in its Constitution, the stated mission of the Universal
House of Justice is, inter alia: “to do its utmost for the realization of greater
cordiality and comity amongst the nations and for the attainment of uni-
versal peace”; “to safeguard the personal rights, freedom and initiative of
individuals”; “to give attention to the preservation of human honour, to the
development of countries and the stability of states”; “to provide for the
arbitration and settlement of disputes arising between peoples”; and “to
foster that which is conducive to the enlightenment and illumination of the
souls of men and the advancement and betterment of the world.”14 These
are some of the duties of the Universal House of Justice that are mandated
in its charter document. In fine, the Universal House of Justice works to
promote ideal international relations through the application of Baha’i prin-
ciples and practices at local, national, and international levels.
The diplomatic work of the Baha’i Faith is carried out by the Universal
House of Justice, the Baha’i International Community (BIC), and exter-
nal affairs representatives appointed by their respective National Spiritual
Assemblies. Ethics-based and religious nongovernmental organizations
(RNGOs) are playing increasingly significant roles in their consultative col-
laborations with the United Nations. As an RNGO, the BIC represents a
network of 182 democratically elected National Spiritual Assemblies that
act on behalf of Baha’is worldwide. The BIC is the voice of the Baha’i com-
munity in international affairs. The BIC focuses on four core areas, each of
which encompass social justice issues: (1) promotion of a universal stan-
dard for human rights; (2) advancement of women; (3) promotion of just
and equitable global prosperity; and (4) development of moral capabilities.
The BIC also defends the rights of Baha’is in countries where they are per-
secuted, such as in Iran and Egypt.
As previously stated, Baha’i communities are established in 235 countries
and dependent territories, representing more than 2,100 different tribal,
racial, and ethnic groups. At present, the country with the greatest num-
ber of Baha’is is India, where its magnificent “Lotus Temple” just outside of
New Delhi is now said to be the most visited religious edifice in the world.
Although its adherents number only seven million, the Baha’i Faith is now
the second most widespread of the world’s independent religions, according
to the World Christian Encyclopedia15 and Encyclopedia Britannica Book of the Year
(1992). The statistical distribution of Baha’is worldwide may be studied by
consulting the Britannica yearbooks in their annual reports on religion.
Social justice is relative to prevailing social values. Yet out of this relativity,
consensus may be reached by identifying common denominators. “Justice . . .
is a universal quality,” ‘Abdu’l-Baha stated in Paris on November 17, 1912.
He added that “justice must be sacred, and the rights of all the people must
be considered.”16 The Baha’i ethical commitment to social justice is para-
mount. “The best beloved of all things in My sight is Justice,” Baha’u’llah
writes, “turn not away therefrom if thou desirest Me, and neglect it not that

302 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
I may confide in thee.” “By its aid thou shalt see with thine own eyes and not
through the eyes of others, and shalt know of thine own knowledge and not
through the knowledge of thy neighbor,” Baha’u’llah goes on to say. “Ponder
this in thy heart; how it behooveth thee to be. Verily justice is My gift to thee
and the sign of My loving-kindness. Set it then before thine eyes.”17 The chal-
lenge for Baha’is, then, is to more systematically develop Baha’i principles of
social justice, to apply them within their own faith-communities, and then to
offer these practiced precepts as a model for wider adoption. In his epistle to
Queen Victoria (c. 1870), Baha’u’llah endorsed parliamentary democracy as
an ideal form of governance:
We have also heard that thou hast entrusted the reins of counsel into the
hands of the representatives of the people. Thou, indeed, hast done well. . . .
O ye the elected representatives of the people in every land! Take ye counsel
together, and let your concern be only for that which profiteth mankind and
bettereth the condition thereof, if ye be of them that scan heedfully.18
Referring to his own mission as that of a “World Reformer,”19 Baha’u’llah
promulgated social principles that are wider in scope than the process of
electing governments. Democracy is more than the election of govern-
ments; it is the refinement of governments as well.
The Baha’i community, in a measured participation in political democracy,
eschews partisan politics as polarizing and divisive. While exercising their
civic obligation in voting, individual Baha’is distance themselves from the
political theatre of party politics. Embracing many aspects of democracy, they
shun campaigning. Instead, Baha’is work within the body politic, applying
Baha’i principles to better society. These principles include, among others:
(1) human unity; (2) social justice; (3) racial harmony; (4) interfaith coop-
eration; (5) gender equality; (6) wealth equity (economic justice); (7) social
and economic development; (8) international law; (9) human rights; (10)
freedom of conscience; (11) individual responsibility; (12) harmony of sci-
ence and religion; (13) international scientific cooperation; (14) international
standards/world intercommunication; (15) international language; (16) uni-
versal education; (17) environmentalism; (18) world commonwealth; (19)
world tribunal; (20) world peace; (21) search after truth; (22) oneness of
religion; (23) love of God; (24) nobility of character (acquiring virtues); (25)
advancing civilization (individual purpose); (26) work as worship; (27) ideal
marriage; (28) family values; (29) model communities; (30) religious tele-
ology (Progressive Revelation); (31) Baha’i doctrinal integrity; (32) Baha’i
institutional support (the “Covenant”); (33) promoting Baha’i values. These
principles and practices work synergistically in concert to refine moral char-
acter, advance civilization, inspire new approaches to conflict resolution, and
endow human consciousness with a vibrant vision of social harmony.
In its June 4, 1992, presentation to the Plenary of the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED, Earth Summit

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 303
‘92, Rio de Janiero), the BIC has epitomized the foundation of social justice
from a Baha’i perspective: “The fundamental spiritual truth of our age is the
oneness of humanity.”20 (In Baha’i terminology, “oneness” means “unity.”)
It follows that “universal acceptance of this principle—with its implications
for social and economic justice, universal participation in non-adversarial
decision making, peace and collective security, equality of the sexes, and
universal education—will make possible the reorganization and adminis-
tration of the world as one country, the home of humankind.”21 Note the
linkage that such Baha’i statements strike between social justice and world
unity. These principles are comprehensive and perhaps may best be studied
within a framework suggested by ‘Abdu’l-Baha himself: “The teachings of
Baha’u’llah are the light of this age and the spirit of this century. Expound
each of them at every gathering:
The first is investigation of truth,
The second, the oneness of mankind,
The third, universal peace,
The fourth, conformity between science and divine revelation,
The fifth, abandonment of racial, religious, worldly and political
prejudices, prejudices which destroy the foundation of mankind,
The sixth is righteousness and justice,
The seventh, the betterment of morals and heavenly education,
The eighth, the equality of the two sexes,
The ninth, the diffusion of knowledge and education,
The tenth, economic questions, and so on and so forth.”22
While space does not permit elaboration of these (and other) Baha’i
principles of unity, many are fairly self-evident. They provide a necessary
context for understanding what lies behind the Baha’i vision of the destiny
of America. By Baha’i standards, America will be measured by its ability to
further unity at home and abroad, through developing an exemplary society
while instrumentally promoting world order.
Baha’i Myths as a “Sacred History” of America
There are actually a number of passages in Baha’i texts concerning the des-
tiny of America. They are too numerous to treat here. While many, these
statements reiterate salient themes. Throughout the remainder of this chap-
ter, some of these themes will be highlighted. First, the term “America,” as
found in Baha’i texts, needs to be contextualized geopolitically.
Various configurations of the term “America” have rather self-evident
geographical distinctions, such as “the Americas,” “the Continent of Amer-
ica,” “North America,” and then, “America,” which by itself most often is a
metonymy (or synonym) for the “United States of America.” Similarly, the

304 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
meaning of “America” in Baha’i texts is context-dependent, in that “Amer-
ica” variously represents: (1) the United States (including Alaska); (2) the
United States and Canada; (3) North America; and (4) the Americas. In a
talk delivered on September 5, 1912, at the St. James Methodist Church
in Montreal, Canada, ‘Abdu’l-Baha indicates that Canada shares much the
same destiny as the United States:
Praise be to God! I find these two great American nations highly capable
and advanced in all that appertains to progress and civilization. These
governments are fair and equitable. The motives and purposes of these
people are lofty and inspiring. Therefore, it is my hope that these revered
nations may become prominent factors in the establishment of interna-
tional peace and the oneness of the world of humanity; that they may lay
the foundations of equality and spiritual brotherhood among mankind.23
This is a mission and mandate to both the United States and Canada alike,
indicating that “international peace and the oneness of the world of human-
ity” and laying the “foundations of equality and spiritual brotherhood among
mankind” is not the province of any one country alone, but—to varying
degrees according to the respective capacity of each—of all countries. Return-
ing to the meaning of “America” in Baha’i texts, one passage that offers a
prime example of a range of meanings that “America” adumbrates (i.e., the
United States, Canada, North America, and the Americas) is as follows:
The Báb had in His Qayyúmu’l-Asmá, almost a hundred years previously,
sounded His specific summons to the “peoples of the West” to “issue
forth” from their “cities” and aid His Cause. Baha’u’llah, in His Kitáb-i-
Aqdas, had collectively addressed the Presidents of the Republics of the
entire Americas, bidding them arise and “bind with the hands of justice
the broken,” and “crush the oppressor” with the “rod of the command-
ments” of their Lord, and had, moreover, anticipated in His writings the
appearance “in the West” of the “signs of His Dominion. ‘Abdu’l-Baha
had, on His part, declared that the “illumination” shed by His Father’s
Revelation upon the West would acquire an “extraordinary brilliancy,”
and that the “light of the Kingdom” would “shed a still greater illumina-
tion upon the West” than upon the East. He had extolled the American
continent in particular as “the land wherein the splendors of His Light
shall be revealed, where the mysteries of His Faith shall be unveiled,” and
affirmed that “it will lead all nations spiritually.” More specifically still, He
had singled out the Great Republic of the West, the leading nation of that
continent, declaring that its people were “indeed worthy of being the first
to build the Tabernacle of the Most Great Peace and proclaim the oneness
of mankind,” that it was “equipped and empowered to accomplish that
which will adorn the pages of history, to become the envy of the world,
and be blest in both the East and the West.”24

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 305
In this chapter, “America” will be understood to mean the United States
of America. In a word, the place of America in the grand scheme of things
is intimately bound up with the purpose of the existence of the Baha’i Faith
itself: world unity. It should be added that “world unity” is an outcome of
an integrated approach to social and economic development, equitable man-
agement of world resources, the potentializing of human resources through
advanced educational strategies, effective conflict resolution, and the spiri-
tual awakening of societies as a whole. The earliest mention of “America” in
the Baha’i Writings occurs in a passage, the context of which indicates that
“America” stands for what today would be commonly referred to as “the
Americas,” or the Western Hemisphere. In 1873, Baha’u’llah addressed the
rulers and leaders of the Americas in the single most important Baha’i text,
the Most Holy Book (Kitáb-i Aqdas):
Hearken ye, O Rulers of America and the Presidents of the Republics
therein, unto that which the Dove is warbling on the Branch of Eternity:
“There is none other God but Me, the Ever-Abiding, the Forgiving, the All-
Bountiful.” Adorn ye the temple of dominion with the ornament of justice
and of the fear of God, and its head with the crown of the remembrance of
your Lord, the Creator of the heavens. Thus counselleth you He Who is the
Dayspring of Names, as bidden by Him Who is the All-Knowing, the All-
Wise. The Promised One hath appeared in this glorified Station, whereat all
beings, both seen and unseen, have rejoiced. . . . Bind ye the broken with
the hands of justice, and crush the oppressor who flourisheth with the rod
of the commandments of your Lord, the Ordainer, the All-Wise.25
This passage was written in 1873 or shortly prior to that. Serving as presi-
dents (or as prime minister, as in the case of Canada) of the countries of
the Americas in 1872 were the following (with nations listed alphabetically):
Domingo Faustino Sarmiento, president of Argentina; John A. Macdonald,
prime minister of Canada; Federico Errázuriz Zanartu, president of Chile;
Eustorgio Salgar and Manuel Murillo Toro, presidents of Colombia; Tomás
Guardia Gutiérrez, president of Costa Rica; Buenaventura Báez, president of
the Dominican Republic; Gabriel García Moreno, president of Ecuador; Justo
Rufino Barrios, president of Guatemala; Nissage Saget, president of Haiti;
Benito Juárez and Sebastián Lerdo de Tejada, presidents of Mexico; José
Vicente Cuadra, president of Nicaragua; Francisco Solano López, president
of Paraguay; Manuel Pardo, president of Peru; Ulysses S. Grant, president of
the United States of America; Lorenzo Batlle y Grau and Tomás Gomensoro,
presidents of Uruguay; and Antonio Guzmán Blanco, president of Venezu-
ela.26 Here, the admonition to “bind ye the broken with the hands of justice,
and crush the oppressor” would naturally devolve upon the United States
of America, of which Ulysses S. Grant was president, as well as the other
countries of the Western Hemisphere, as every nation has this obligation to
safeguard and to promote the commonweal of its own citizens.

306 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
According to Shoghi Effendi, not only were “the Rulers of America” sig-
nificantly “spared the ominous and emphatic warnings” that Baha’u’llah
had “uttered against the crowned heads of the world,” but “upon the sov-
ereign rulers of the Western Hemisphere” was conferred the “distinction”
of exhorting them to “bring their corrective and healing influence to bear
upon the injustices perpetrated by the tyrannical and the ungodly.”27 “Had
this Cause been revealed in the West,” Baha’u’llah is reported to have said
in the untranslated portion of Nabíl’s Narrative (an authoritative account of
Bábí and early Baha’i history), “had Our verses been sent from the West to
Persia and other countries of the East, it would have become evident how
the people of the Occident would have embraced Our Cause.”28 It is clear
that Baha’u’llah saw greater capacity and receptivity to his sociomoral prin-
ciples in the West than in the East. Above and beyond those passages that
clearly foreshadow the “signs of His dominion” in the West, Shoghi Effendi
points to the “no less significant verbal affirmations” in which Baha’u’llah,
“according to reliable eyewitnesses,” had “more than once made in regard
to the glorious destiny which America was to attain in the days to come.”29
So, while no direct writing by Baha’u’llah regarding the destiny of America
is extant, reliable sources provide sufficient attestation of Baha’u’llah’s oral
statements regarding America’s promise and future preeminence.
Subsequent to Baha’u’llah was ‘Abdu’l-Baha, who, after his father,
Baha’u’llah, had passed away in 1892, led the Baha’i world until he himself
left this mortal world in 1921, when he was succeeded by his grandson, the
Oxford-educated Shoghi Effendi. Both ‘Abdu’l-Baha and Shoghi Effendi had
some profound thoughts about the destiny of America. In the course of their
respective pronouncements on America, certain characterizations of Ameri-
can history and America’s world role were articulated in order to register
particular points, as the rhetoric and rationale of those comments occa-
sionally dictated. Such glosses on America gave rise to sometimes idealized
representations and, at time, generalized critiques of America as well—all of
which, taken together, comprise what may well be described, for the purposes
of this book at least, as the Baha’i myths and visions of America.
According to historian Robert Stockman, American Baha’is, on the basis
of these various pronouncements, have articulated a grand myth of Amer-
ica, which incorporates Baha’i ideals: “The American Baha’is utilized the
historic events and basic principles of their new religion to define a new
myth of America, one that contained much of the confidence and optimism
of the traditional Protestant view of America as a ‘redeemer nation’.”30
Stockman elaborates further:
Like any religious group, the American Baha’is have constructed a sacred
history, or myth, about their country. This sacred history is primarily
based on the values found in Baha’i scripture and does not appear to be
borrowed from American Protestantism or secular culture to a significant
degree. However, the Baha’i myth’s concept of America’s uniqueness,

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 307
its view of the possible future greatness of America, and its consequent
critique of current American social conditions bear some remarkable par-
allels to the Protestant myth.31
Here, by religious “myth,” Stockman means a “sacred history.” No one
should misconstrue the meaning of the term, “myth.” Stockman is careful
to explain that the terms “sacred history” and “myth” are, here at least, used
“synonymously.” These terms denote a “theologically based understanding
of the importance of the events of history.” Since history cannot possibly
record every single fact, consequently “historians must sift through facts and
select only those that are most relevant to their studies.” This selection pro-
cess necessarily includes “a strong element of judgment and bias based on
one’s methods, ideological assumptions, and interests.” A sacred history is
no exception, for “it is distinguished by the use of theological beliefs as the
primary selection criteria for the inclusion of facts.” In Stockman’s and the
present writer’s use of these more or less interchangeable terms, a caveat is in
order: the “use of the word myth is not meant to suggest that a sacred history
is untrue,” but simply a way “to give religious meaning to mundane events.”32
The specific parallel with the Protestant myth of America that Robert
Stockman adduces is with America’s world role as “redeemer nation.”
Earlier in the present book, the Protestant “master myth” of America has
been described several times as a mandate “to colonize, Christianize, and
civilize” and is closely associated with the doctrine of Manifest Destiny.
This would seem to be very different from the “redeemer nation” vision
alluded to in the passages above from Stockman’s work. It is important
not to associate the Baha’i view with the superiority and prejudice inher-
ent in “colonize, Christianize, and civilize.” Rather, the emphasis here is
on America’s redemptive role: Stockman particularly alludes to a classic
work in American studies, Ernest Lee Tuveson’s Redeemer Nation: The Idea of
America’s Millennial Role,33 in which the idea of redemptive mission—which
has motivated so much of American foreign policy—is as old as the Repub-
lic itself. Tuveson traces the development of this aspect of the American
heritage from its Puritan origins, and tracks the idea of America’s mission
and the millenarian ideal through successive stages of American history.
Americanist Deborah Madsen succinctly recapitulates this notion of
America as a “redeemer nation.” America began as an experiment in theoc-
racy (the reign of God). Puritans of the Massachusetts Bay Colony believed
that God intervened in human history to effect the salvation not only of
individuals but also entire nations. Thus, the Puritans believed that the
New World, and the Puritans themselves, had been singled out by God and
were charged with a special destiny—to establish a model Christian com-
munity for the rest of the world to emulate. Madsen explains that
this idea of ecclesiastical perfection combined with millennial expecta-
tions and gave rise to the theory that here in the New World the purified

308 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
church would create the conditions for Christ’s return to earth. The mis-
sion that inspired the Massachusetts Bay colonists was then charged with
exceptional importance and urgency.34
The New World is thus the last and best hope for a fallen humanity that has
only to look to the sanctified church in America for redemption. Consequently,
America and Americans are special, exceptional, because they are charged
with saving the world from itself and, at the same time, America and
Americans must sustain a high level of spiritual, political and moral com-
mitment to this exceptional destiny—America must be as “a City upon a
Hill” exposed to the eyes of the world.35
In Madsen’s view, exceptionalism is an integral and distinctive feature of
the American experience: “This concept has generated a self-consciousness
and degree of introspection that is unique to American culture.”36 The doc-
trine of America as a redeemer nation later developed into “an unquestioning
belief in the doctrine of Manifest Destiny, a profound commitment to the
inevitability of American expansion and an uncompromising vision of Amer-
ica as the redeemer nation committed to extending the domain of freedom and
America’s control over it”37 as well as a “racialised interpretation of national
destiny” (i.e., American Anglo-Saxonism).38 Under this analysis, Stockman’s
parallel is valid insofar as the Puritan ethic is concerned, but must be dis-
tanced from its pejorative transmogrification into the doctrine of Manifest
Destiny. Indeed, a Baha’i view of America as a “redeemer nation” could only
come about if America first redeems itself from the materialism and moral
laxity that represents the very antithesis of the Puritan vision.
America is not the only country that is the subject of a Baha’i sacred his-
tory. Stockman points out that there are Baha’i sacred histories about other
countries as well:
The American Baha’i sacred history is not a unique phenomenon; Baha’i
sacred histories of Germany, Russia, China, India, Japan, Iran, Canada,
and other countries undoubtedly have been created by the Baha’is of
those countries, based on statements about those nations in the Baha’i
scriptures. A folk tradition is inevitable whenever the Baha’i religion is
introduced to a new culture or nation.39
As for the Baha’i myth of America, Stockman further notes that “the cre-
ation of an American Baha’i sacred history inevitably represents an act of
social criticism as well, for some events in American history are negatively
valued, such as America’s persistent streak of racism, its materialism, and
its excessive and isolationist nationalism.”40 This is an important observa-
tion, because, as will be discussed below, there are certain American social
problems that have drawn recurrent criticism in Baha’i texts. For instance,

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 309
the problem of racism in the United States is termed, in the Baha’i Writings,
as “the most challenging issue.” In an official position statement issued
in 1991 by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of the United
States41—entitled, The Vision of Race Unity: America’s Most Challenging Issue—
the problem of racism in America is framed so:
Racism is the most challenging issue confronting America. A nation
whose ancestry includes every people on earth, whose motto is E pluribus
unum, whose ideals of freedom under law have inspired millions through-
out the world, cannot continue to harbor prejudice against any racial
or ethnic group without betraying itself. Racism is an affront to human
dignity, a cause of hatred and division, a disease that devastates society.
Notwithstanding the efforts already expended for its elimination, racism
continues to work its evil upon this nation.
The American audience is in full view here, where racism is characterized
as fundamentally un-American, facially contradicting America’s celebrated
motto, which translates, “Out of many, One.” Therefore, unity is faithful to
the America ideal, whereas racism tears at America’s social fabric. America
has no spiritual destiny so long as rampant racism remains. The persistence
of racism, even in its most subtle forms (what sociologists have termed,
“polite racism”), retards America’s social advancement, and vitiates its
moral authority under the close watch of the community of nations. Further
in this statement, the National Spiritual Assembly connects the fostering of
racial harmony—seen as the divinely ordained antidote to racism—with the
destiny of America:
Aware of the magnitude and the urgency of the issue, we, the National
Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of the United States, speaking for the
entire U.S. Baha’i community, appeal to all people of goodwill to arise
without further delay to resolve the fundamental social problem of this
country. We do so because of our feeling of shared responsibility, because
of the global experience of the Baha’i community in affecting racial har-
mony within itself, and because of the vision that the sacred scriptures of
our Faith convey of the destiny of America.
America’s prospective leadership in international affairs must be
grounded in domestic social policy that other nations may regard as exem-
plary and as a model to follow. Of course, this cannot happen unless and
until America succeeds in eradicating racism and promoting interracial har-
mony. Stockman registers one more point: “In this way the sacred history
becomes a spur to Baha’i efforts to reform society. It also helps American
Baha’is to form an American identity that is congruent with the Baha’i scrip-
tures.”42 In other words, if America solves its racial crisis at home, it will
then gain the moral authority to promote similar social cohesion abroad.

310 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
The Baha’i Emancipation/Civil War Myth
The year 1912 was the year that ‘Abdu’l-Baha came to America. On just his
tenth day in America—Saturday, April 20—‘Abdu’l-Baha arrived in Washing-
ton, D.C., and stayed until Sunday, April 28. On Tuesday morning, April 23,
‘Abdu’l-Baha spoke in Rankin Chapel at Howard University. Well over a thou-
sand faculty, administrators, students, and guests43 crowded the relatively
small space of this modest chapel to hear him speak. In this historic speech,
‘Abdu’l-Baha draws on American history (or a certain view of it) in order to
promote unity between the races: “The first proclamation of emancipation
[the Emancipation Proclamation] for the blacks was made by the whites of
America. How they fought and sacrificed until they freed the blacks! Then
it spread to other places.“‘Abdu’l-Baha further states that the Emancipation
Proclamation was followed by the Europeans, and had a liberating impact on
Africans as well, such that “Emancipation Proclamation became universal.”44
In this general statement, ‘Abdu’l-Baha evidently points to some of the
political and social effects of the Emancipation Proclamation (and its later
developments) as a reflex of American exemplarism abroad, as well as at
home. To idealize the Civil War is to mythologize it. Here, ‘Abdu’l-Baha
mythologizes the Civil War by essentializing it. This Civil War myth, like
most myths, serves as a vehicle of a social and moral truth: the need for
interracial unity. ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s observations, as quoted above, had their
basis in later developments in the Civil War and beyond.
On January 1, 1863, President Abraham Lincoln’s Emancipation Procla-
mation was promulgated—although Lincoln arguably had no constitutional
authority to actually free slaves. (By dint of his authority as commander in
chief, the Proclamation was technically a military order.) Its reach was not
universal, as it legally freed slaves only in the Southern states. The Emanci-
pation Proclamation was the precursor of the Thirteenth Amendment. On
December 18, 1865, Congress’s Thirteenth Amendment freed slaves nation-
ally. The Thirteenth Amendment abolished slavery, and thus radically altered
the U.S. Constitution, as part of what some legal scholars call the “Second
Constitution.” Ironically, ratification of the Thirteenth Amendment marks
the first time that the word “slavery” appeared in the Constitution, even
though the Constitution had explicitly protected slavery. ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s state-
ment, therefore, would presumably adumbrate the Thirteenth Amendment
as an extension of Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclamation.
Originally known as the “Abolition Amendment,” the intent of the
Thirteenth Amendment was to give practical effect to the Declaration of
Independence’s self-evident truths “that all men are created equal; that
they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; that
among these, are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.” Of course, such
unalienable rights did not extend to aliens (noncitizens), which is why the
Fourteenth Amendment (1868) had, perforce, to precede the Fifteenth, by
granting citizenship to anyone born or naturalized in the United States.

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 311
Under Section 2, which legal scholars call the Enforcement Clause, the
Thirteenth Amendment was also supposed to eradicate any vestiges of
forced labor (“badges and incidents of servitude”). Thus, to enforce the
Thirteenth Amendment, Congress quickly passed the Civil Rights Act of
1866 (over President Andrew Johnson’s veto), the Slave Kidnapping Act
of 1866, the Peonage Act of 1867, and the Judiciary Act of 1867. But a
series of Supreme Court decisions during Reconstruction effectively emas-
culated the Amendment, through crabbed interpretation and curtailed
application. With the splendid exception of peonage cases, the Thirteenth
Amendment remained a dead letter under segregationist Supreme Court
rulings like Plessy v. Ferguson, which used color as a badge for discrimina-
tion while professing an “equal but separate” doctrine. One reason for
this is that the Thirteenth Amendment was deficient in that it lacked any
formal recognition of equality under the law. This defect would later be
cured by enactment of the Equal Protection Clause under the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The Thirteenth Amendment is far more than an emancipation law.
Through its enforcement power, it is also a civil rights instrument, although
rarely used. The social transformation that the framers of the Thirteenth
Amendment had envisioned could only be achieved where the federal gov-
ernment could enforce freedom. Sadly, it took over a century for the Supreme
Court to discover in the Thirteenth Amendment a fresh constitutional
source of power for enforcing certain civil rights. The landmark decision
of Jones v. Alfred H. Mayer Co., 392 U.S. 409 (1968), restored the civil rights
value of the Amendment and transformed it into a potentially potent civil
rights instrument. Jones established Congress’s power to enact legislation
against private racial discrimination. Today, the Thirteenth Amendment
arguably remains a little-used, but potentially important, federal power for
enforcing civil rights against all vestiges of slavery that reincarnate as racial
discrimination. Alexander Tsesis, who may be today’s leading authority on
the Thirteenth Amendment, observes that each new generation must reex-
amine the nation’s past, its core documents, and its moral progress as a
constitutional democracy.
Such legislation, alone, cannot solve the racial crisis that continues
to affect America, even though such discrimination has taken on subtle
forms—what sociologists generally term, “polite racism.” Abolition of slav-
ery, after all, is not freedom from all oppression. Slavery’s roots are deep
in American history, and are not yet fully extirpated. Racism is a ghost of
the slaver’s psyche, and legislation alone cannot humanify the heart. Baha’i
texts are fully alive to this problem, which is why, according to ‘Abdu’l-
Baha, whites should “endeavor to promote your advancement and enhance
your honor,” referring to African Americans. “Differences between black
and white will be completely obliterated; indeed, ethnic and national differ-
ences will all disappear.”45 There is an element of prophecy in ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s
prediction that racial, ethnic, and national differences would, in the future,

312 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
vanish as socially repugnant. Just about any prophecy requires mechanisms
for its fulfillment. Accordingly, ‘Abdu’l-Baha invites his audience to build
on history by making history, in commencing a new era of racial harmony.
On Wednesday, April 24, 1912—the day after speaking in Rankin Chapel
at Howard University—‘Abdu’l-Baha said, at a Baha’i-sponsored interracial
meeting: “A meeting such as this seems like a beautiful cluster of pre-
cious jewels—pearls, rubies, diamonds, sapphires. It is a source of joy and
delight. In the clustered jewels of the races, may the blacks be as sapphires
and rubies and the whites as diamonds and pearls. How glorious the spec-
tacle of real unity among mankind! This is the sign of the Most Great Peace;
this is the star of the oneness of the human world.” Throughout his travels
and speaking engagements in the United States and Canada, ‘Abdu’l-Baha
continued to stress the vital importance of race unity for America and for
the world.
The Baha’i Wilsonian Myth
In the Baha’i vision of America, America’s world role is to foster ideal
international relations. Such world diplomacy and international coopera-
tion will, in turn, prove hugely instrumental in unifying the world (which,
after all, is the principal purpose of the Baha’i Faith). In its religious myth
(or, sacred history) of America, several Baha’i texts single out, for distinc-
tion, an American president who tried to do exactly that: Woodrow Wilson.
Indeed, President Wilson was a “statesman whose vision both ‘Abdu’l-Baha
and Shoghi Effendi have praised.”46 These passages lionize President Wood-
row Wilson by focusing exclusively on his legacy as an internationalist.
Such praise is both deserved and controversial. Wilson is immortalized in
history as an internationalist who championed the formation of the League
of Nations (precursor of the United Nations). Historians generally agree
that Woodrow Wilson, in so doing, was the first U.S. president to define
America’s world role. This largely explains why Baha’i sources attach con-
siderable religious significance to President Wilson. Yet Wilson was also a
racist, which fact finds no purchase in the Wilsonian idealism given such
prominence in Baha’i texts. Shoghi Effendi states that Wilson holds a spe-
cial place as the most honored statesman in the Baha’i writings:
To her President, the immortal Woodrow Wilson, must be ascribed the
unique honor, among the statesmen of any nation, whether of the East or
of the West, of having voiced sentiments so akin to the principles animat-
ing the Cause of Baha’u’llah, and of having more than any other world
leader, contributed to the creation of the League of Nations—achieve-
ments which the pen of the Center of God’s Covenant [‘Abdu’l-Baha]
acclaimed as signalizing the dawn of the Most Great Peace.47

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 313
Note that the passage distinguishes this American president as “the
immortal Woodrow Wilson,” notwithstanding the fact that Wilson was an
erstwhile racist. While racism is absolutely antithetical to Baha’i principles
of unity, the Baha’i Woodrow Wilson myth is consistent with the function
of mythmaking in general, which is to confer meaning and inspire action.
Myths, after all, are about storytelling in order to moralize and incentivize,
not to memorialize the naked facts for their own sake. Here, the purpose of
idealizing the past is to inspire an ideal future.
In a word, Wilsonian idealism is internationalism.48 A comparison of
Wilsonian idealism and Baha’i principles shows a powerful resonance that
is nothing short of resounding harmonics. Stephen Skowronek condenses
and characterizes Wilsonian idealism as effectively as any of his predeces-
sors have done, if not more so:
“Peace without victory”; self-determination; the equality of states; renun-
ciation of indemnities and annexations; rejection of the balance of power;
promotion of the community of powers, of collective security under a
league of nations, of a world safe for democracy—these were the principles
Wilson enunciated in 1917, and these were the principles that catapulted
him into the top ranks of democratic visionaries in world history.49
On these resonances between Wilsonian internationalism and Baha’i
principles of ideal international relations leading to world unity, ‘Abdu’l-
Baha, observed: “As to President Wilson, the fourteen principles which
he hath enunciated are mostly found in the teachings of Baha’u’llah and I
therefore hope that he will be confirmed and assisted.”50 In ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s
estimation, Wilson’s enlightened internationalism attracted divine favor:
The President of the Republic, Dr. Wilson, is indeed serving the King-
dom of God for he is restless and strives day and night that the rights of
all men may be preserved safe and secure, that even small nations, like
greater ones, may dwell in peace and comfort, under the protection of
Righteousness and Justice. This purpose is indeed a lofty one. I trust that
the incomparable Providence will assist and confirm such souls under all
conditions.51
Thus, in the Baha’i view, President Wilson’s principles of internationalism
were providentially inspired. According to Shoghi Effendi, the “ideals that
fired the imagination of America’s tragically unappreciated President” were
“acclaimed as signalizing the dawn of the Most Great Peace” by “‘Abdu’l-
Baha, through His own pen.”52
Such is the Wilsonian myth. Yet the Baha’i writings do not idealize Wil-
son so much as they champion Wilsonian idealism.53 In lionizing Wilson
the statesman, and in overlooking Wilson the racist, the Baha’i Wilsonian

314 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
myth lives up to the purpose of a religious myth of America, as idealized or
sacralized history exemplifying key precepts and practices.
The Baha’i Vision of the Destiny of America
In 2001, there came a moment in time when the National Spiritual Assem-
bly of the Baha’is of the United States (elected governing council of the
American Baha’i community) decided to offer a perspective on the destiny
of America as the promoter of world peace. At a time of national crisis fol-
lowing the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the National Spiritual
Assembly published a full-page display ad, “The Destiny of America and
the Promise of World Peace,” which appeared on page A29 in the New
York Times on December 23, 2001.54 This 645-word document highlights
six prerequisites for world peace: (1) promoting “universal acceptance”
of the oneness of humanity to realize world peace; (2) eradicating rac-
ism (“a major barrier to peace”) to achieve racial harmony; (3) fostering
“the emancipation of women” to achieve “full equality of the sexes”; (4)
greatly reducing the “inordinate disparity between rich and poor”; (5)
transcending “unbridled nationalism” and inculcating “a wider loyalty” to
“humanity as a whole”; (6) overcoming “religious strife” to enjoy harmony
among religions.55 The full-page display ad was later reprinted in dozens of
newspapers around the country.
While the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks are not explicitly men-
tioned in the proclamation, they are implied in the words, “At this time
of world turmoil.”56 How true this statement was. Americans, particularly,
were still in a state of shock. America, under direct attack, was understand-
ably alarmed. Thus “9/11” was, and remains, a deeply disturbing experience
for the American nation. If the American Baha’is had anything to say, this
was the time to say it: “The United States Baha’i community,” the ad goes
on to say, “offers a perspective on the destiny of America as the promoter
of world peace.”57
This Baha’i proclamation introduces the American public to “Baha’u’llah,
the founder of the Baha’i Faith,” who, “addressing heads of state, pro-
claimed that the age of maturity for the entire human race had come.” This
refers to what the present writer calls the first international peace mission in
modern history. The proclamation of Baha’u’llah took place primarily in the
years 1867–1870. During this time, Baha’u’llah addressed epistles, inter
alia, to Kaiser Wilhelm I, Tsar Alexander II, Emperor Napoleon III, Pope
Pius IX, Queen Victoria, Emperor Franz Joseph, Sultan Abdul-Aziz, and
the king of Iran, Nasiri’d-Dín Shah. Speaking of the peace proposals and
principles of ideal international relations that Baha’u’llah communicated
to the reigning pontiff and potentates, ‘Abdu’l-Baha (Baha’u’llah’s eldest
son, successor, and interpreter), commented: “These precepts were pro-
claimed by Baha’u’llah many years ago. He was the first to create them

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 315
in the hearts as moral laws. Writing to the sovereigns of the world, he
summoned them to universal brotherhood, proclaiming that the hour for
unity had struck—unity between countries, unity between religions.”58 The
Baha’i Faith promotes peace as a direct extension of the fact that its founder,
Baha’u’llah, dedicated his life to the cause of world peace and promulgated
the principles necessary to achieve it.
The Times display ad places Baha’u’llah’s messages to the kings and rulers
of the world in this perspective: “The unity of humankind was now to be
established as the foundation of the great peace that would mark the high-
est stage in humanity’s spiritual and social evolution. Revolutionary and
world-shaking changes were therefore inevitable.” “The Destiny of America
and the Promise of World Peace” goes on to quote the following passage
from the Baha’i Writings:
The world is moving on. Its events are unfolding ominously and with
bewildering rapidity. The whirlwind of its passions is swift and alarmingly
violent. The New World is insensibly drawn into its vortex. . . . Dangers,
undreamt of and unpredictable, threaten it both from within and from
without. Its governments and peoples are being gradually enmeshed in
the coils of the world’s recurrent crises and fierce controversies. . . . The
world is contracting into a neighborhood. America, willingly or unwill-
ingly, must face and grapple with this new situation. For purposes of
national security, let alone any humanitarian motive, she must assume
the obligations imposed by this newly created neighborhood. Paradoxical
as it may seem, her only hope of extricating herself from the perils gather-
ing around her is to become entangled in that very web of international
association which the Hand of an inscrutable Providence is weaving.59
This passage in The Advent of Divine Justice, by Shoghi Effendi, who, as
“Guardian” of the Baha’i Faith, led the Baha’i world from 1921 to 1957, is
part of a lengthy letter written December 25, 1938, to the Baha’is of the
United States and Canada.60 Here, the Guardian states that America will
be so inextricably drawn into the vortex of international relations that she
will be forced to assume a leadership role in the international community,
not out of any humanitarian motives per se, but purely out of enlightened
political self-interest. Notwithstanding, that enlightened self-interest will,
in time, develop into an enlightened global interest.
The National Spiritual Assembly goes on to forecast the destiny of Amer-
ica as a future leader and catalyst of world peace:
The American nation, Baha’is believe, will evolve, through tests and trials
to become a land of spiritual distinction and leadership, a champion of
justice and unity among all peoples and nations, and a powerful servant
of the cause of everlasting peace. This is the peace promised by God in the
sacred texts of the world’s religions.61

316 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
However, the six prerequisites to world peace, mentioned above, must first
be met.
This public message from the American Baha’i leadership to the Ameri-
can people was a significant public gesture. The message goes on to quote
from a Baha’i prayer for America: “May this American Democracy be the
first nation to establish the foundation of international agreement. May it
be the first nation to proclaim the unity of mankind. May it be the first
to unfurl the standard of the Most Great Peace.” The proclamation closes
on an optimistic note, with this heartening word of encouragement: “Dur-
ing this hour of crisis,” the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of
the United States concludes, “we affirm our abiding faith in the destiny of
America. We know that the road to its destiny is long, thorny and tortuous,
but we are confident that America will emerge from her trials undivided
and undefeatable.” With this message of hope and inspiration, the National
Spiritual Assembly offers a fresh perspective on America that charts its des-
tiny, prioritizes its social agenda, and conveys a forward-looking sense of
purpose and resolve.
As previously stated, a number of passages in Baha’i texts address the
destiny of America. One of these statements, apart from its exhortative
tenor, contains a significant allusion to an earlier moment in Baha’i history:
This nation so signally blest, occupying so eminent and responsible a
position in a continent so wonderfully endowed, was the first among the
nations of the West to be warmed and illuminated by the rays of the Rev-
elation of Baha’u’llah, soon after the proclamation of His Covenant on the
morrow of His ascension.62
The allusion to what took place “soon after” may be a reference to the first
public mention of the Baha’i Faith in America, which took place during the
World’s First Parliament of Religions, held in Chicago in connection with
the Columbian Exposition of 1893, commemorating the four-hundredth
anniversary of the discovery of America.63 The paper, entitled “The Religious
Mission of the English Speaking Nations,” was presented on September 23,
1893.64 While the paper was written by the Reverend Henry Harris Jes-
sup, D.D. (1832–1910), Director of Presbyterian Missionary Operations in
North Syria, it was George A. Ford, a longtime missionary to Sidon (in
Syria), who read the paper on Jessup’s behalf. The paper was part of a full
day of addresses on the theme “Criticism and Discussion of Missionary
Method.”65 This historic public reference to the fledgling Baha’i religion is
as follows:
In the palace of Behjeh, or Delight, just outside the fortress of Acre, on
the Syrian coast, there died a few months since a famous Persian sage, the
Babi Saint, named Behâ Allah—the “Glory of God”—the head of a vast

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 317
reform party of Persian Moslems, who accept the New Testament as the
Word of God and Christ as the deliverer of men, who regard all nations
as one, and all men as brothers. Three years ago he was visited by a Cam-
bridge scholar and gave utterances to sentiments so noble, so Christ-like,
that we repeat them as our closing words:
“That all nations should become one in faith and all men as brothers;
that the bonds of affection and unity between the sons of men should
be strengthened; that diversity of religion should cease and differences
of race be annulled; what harm is there in this? Yet so it shall be. These
fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars shall pass away, and the ‘Most Great
Peace’ shall come. Do not you in Europe need this also? Let not a man
glory in this, that he loves his country; let him rather glory in this, that
he loves his kind.”66
America’s future destiny was presaged by its finest moments in the past.
Shoghi Effendi credits America with having played a preponderant role in
both World Wars:
This nation, moreover, may well claim to have, as a result of its effective
participation in both the first and second world wars, redressed the bal-
ance, saved mankind the horrors of devastation and bloodshed involved in
the prolongation of hostilities, and decisively contributed, in the course of
the latter conflict, to the overthrow of the exponents of ideologies funda-
mentally at variance with the universal tenets of our Faith.67
As favorable an estimate as this is, Shoghi Effendi elsewhere portends a fire
by ordeal:
The American nation . . . will find itself purged of its anachronistic
conceptions, and prepared to play a preponderating role, as foretold by
‘Abdu’l-Baha, in the hoisting of the standard of the Lesser Peace, in the
unification of mankind, and in the establishment of a world federal gov-
ernment on this planet. These same fiery tribulations will not only firmly
weld the American nation to its sister nations in both hemispheres, but
will through their cleansing effect, purge it thoroughly of the accumulated
dross which ingrained racial prejudice, rampant materialism, widespread
ungodliness and moral laxity have combined, in the course of successive
generations, to produce, and which have prevented her thus far from
assuming the role of world spiritual leadership forecast by ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s
unerring pen—a role which she is bound to fulfill through travail and
sorrow.68
Note that this “world spiritual leadership forecast by ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s
unerring pen” will only come about after America experiences upheaval

318 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
and consequent social transformation. It will not come easily. It has to be
earned. America has to learn the hard way. What has prevented America
from assuming a spiritual leadership role is its “ingrained racial prejudice,
rampant materialism, widespread ungodliness and moral laxity.” Else-
where, Shoghi Effendi revoices these same criticisms of America, which was
“immersed in a sea of materialism, a prey to one of the most virulent and
long-standing forms of racial prejudice, and notorious for its political cor-
ruption, lawlessness and laxity in moral standards.”69 These are retardant
conditions that must first be palliated by equal and opposite conditions of
racial harmony, spirituality, godliness, and moral rectitude. This is where
religion in general, including the Baha’i Faith, can and should act as a cata-
lyst in the moral and spiritual regeneration of America as a precondition
to its ability to live up to its destiny, in the Baha’i view of it, described by
Shoghi Effendi in this signal passage:
Then, and only then, will the American nation . . . be in a position to
raise its voice in the councils of the nations, itself lay the cornerstone of
a universal and enduring peace, proclaim the solidarity, the unity, and
maturity of mankind, and assist in the establishment of the promised
reign of righteousness on earth. Then, and only then, will the Ameri-
can nation, while the community of the American believers within its
heart is consummating its divinely appointed mission, be able to fulfill the
unspeakably glorious destiny ordained for it by the Almighty, and immor-
tally enshrined in the writings of ‘Abdu’l-Baha. Then, and only then, will
the American nation accomplish “that which will adorn the pages of his-
tory,” “become the envy of the world and be blest in both the East and
the West.”70
While the destiny of America is well established in Baha’i texts, one
extended analysis of it is that of John Huddleston. As the International
Monetary Fund’s former chief of the Budget and Planning Division, British
economist John Huddleston has contributed an analysis of the Destiny of
America theme that runs through selected Baha’i texts, such as those cited
above.71 According to Huddleston, “The Baha’i view of the spiritual destiny
of America is a logical development of the traditional American dream. It
foresees a leadership role for America in the achievement of both the Lesser
Peace and the Most Great Peace.”72
The “Lesser Peace” and the “Most Great Peace” are Baha’i terms that
envision stages in the process of world peace, leading from the first efforts
to covenant and codify international law to the full-blown emergence of
world commonwealth of nations. The establishment of world peace will “be
a gradual process” leading “at first to the establishment of that Lesser Peace
which the nations of the earth, as yet unconscious of His Revelation and
yet unwittingly enforcing the general principles which He has enunciated,
will themselves establish.”73 The next stage is “the spiritualization of the

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 319
masses, consequent to the recognition of the character, and the acknowl-
edgement of the claims, of the Faith of Baha’u’llah.”74 This is “the essential
condition” that will serve as the foundation for the “ultimate fusion of all
races, creeds, classes, and nations.”75 On this foundation will the “Most
Great Peace” be established. The Most Great Peace may be described as
a future golden age in which “a world civilization be born, flourish, and
perpetuate itself, a civilization with a fullness of life such as the world has
never seen nor can as yet conceive.”76
The Most Great Peace is not only about establishing a world common-
wealth but is associated with establishing the Kingdom of God on earth,
meaning the realization of Baha’i principles and ideals throughout the
world, and the emergence of the Baha’i Faith as the world religion of the
future. In so saying, a fundamental premise of the Faith is the “oneness
of religion.” This means that all of the major world religions (and others
lost to history) are iterations of the one Faith of God—that is, all revealed
religions, in their pristine forms, are reflections of eternal spiritual reality
as suited to the needs of humanity from age to age. Under the corollary
doctrine of “Progressive Revelation,” the principles and teachings of the
Baha’i Faith are held to be ideally suited to this day and age, as well as into
the foreseeable future. Features of the Most Great Peace will be highlighted
at the end of this chapter.
In a cablegram dated April 26, 1942, Shoghi Effendi presaged America’s
lion’s share in helping establish the Lesser Peace: “The great Republic of the
West is inescapably swept into the swelling tide of the world tribulations,
presaging the assumption of a preponderating share in the establishment
of the anticipated Lesser Peace.”77 Exactly how this will come about is not
clear: “The distance that the American nation has traveled since its formal
and categoric repudiation of the Wilsonian ideal,” writes Shoghi Effendi,
alluding to Congress’s refusal to join the League of Nations, is
to every Baha’i observer, viewing the developments in the international
situation, in the light of the prophecies of both Baha’u’llah and ‘Abdu’l-
Baha, most significant, and highly instructive and encouraging. To trace
the exact course which, in these troubled times and pregnant years, this
nation will follow would be impossible.78
Yet there is a shared understanding among Baha’is as to America’s capacity
to assume a “preponderating share” in bringing the Lesser Peace into being.
America will also have a central role in bringing about the Most Great
Peace, according to the Baha’i view of the future. “Whatever the Hand of a
beneficent and inscrutable Destiny has reserved for this youthful, this vir-
ile, this idealistic, this spiritually blessed and enviable nation . . . ,” Shoghi
Effendi asserts, “we may, confident in the words uttered by ‘Abdu’l-Baha,
feel assured that that great republic . . . will continue to evolve, undivided
and undefeatable, until the sum total of its contributions to the birth, the

320 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
rise and the fruition of that world civilization, the child of the Most Great
Peace and hallmark of the Golden Age of the Dispensation of Baha’u’llah,
will have been made, and its last task discharged.”79
These words are far more than prediction: they are spoken with religious
conviction and with absolute confidence in their fruition.
“Indeed, the most important quality America brings to the world scene,”
Huddleston observes, “is its sheer capacity to get things done.”80 Even more
significant than “American know-how” and its “can-do” capabilities is the
historic quality of the American experience itself, and its moral impact on
other countries. Huddleston notes the worldwide influence of the Civil
Rights movement (“the spark that illumined the world”) and how it has
further prepared America for its world role: “In short, beyond the model of
the U.S. Constitution is an inheritance in the American political experience
of an immense struggle to implement its true spirit through application
of a systematic approach to human rights—an experience that is surely
not matched in intensity by any other nation.”81 Shoghi Effendi articulates
those distinctively American qualities that endow it with the capacity to
realize its spiritual destiny:
To the matchless position achieved by so preeminent a president [Wood-
row Wilson] of the American Union, in a former period, at so critical a
juncture in international affairs, must now be added the splendid initia-
tive taken, in recent years by the American government, culminating in
the birth of the successor of that League [the United Nations] in San
Francisco, and the establishment of its permanent seat in the city of New
York. Nor can the preponderating influence exerted by this nation in the
councils of the world, the prodigious economic and political power that it
wields, the prestige it enjoys, the wealth of which it disposes, the ideal-
ism that animates its people, her magnificent contribution, as a result of
her unparalleled productive power, for the relief of human suffering and
the rehabilitation of peoples and nations, be overlooked in a survey of the
position which she holds, and which distinguishes her from her sister
nations in both the new and old worlds.82
Note here the outspoken recognition of the outstanding qualities and
capacities that America possesses: international influence, economic and
political power, prestige, wealth, idealism, productivity, and altruism. And
so, given these recognized qualities, capacities, and potentialities, the Baha’i
writings are remarkably clear in their vision of America’s mission and des-
tiny. There are, however, great challenges facing the American nation that
Baha’i texts directly address. These are social deficits the solution of which
will directly impact America’s moral authority in terms of its world role.
Among these social ills is racism, which is as persistent and pervasive as it
is historic. “Racism is the most challenging issue confronting America” is
the opening sentence in The Vision of Race Unity, an official Baha’i statement

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 321
published in 1991. Racism, in Baha’i analysis, is the original sin of America.
(Many historians would agree.) Race unity is therefore a key to America’s
social salvation.
The Vision of Race Unity statement integrates racial harmony with Ameri-
ca’s destiny, as the two are coefficient with each other:
Aware of the magnitude and the urgency of the issue, we, the National
Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of the United States, speaking for the
entire U.S. Baha’i community, appeal to all people of goodwill to arise
without further delay to resolve the fundamental social problem of this
country. We do so because of our feeling of shared responsibility, because
of the global experience of the Baha’i community in effecting racial har-
mony within itself, and because of the vision that the sacred scriptures of
our Faith convey of the destiny of America.
Thus, throughout the United States, Baha’is actively promote a message of
race unity, equality of women and men, and other teachings that can help
make America a better place.
Religious communities are proper objects of scientific study, where
their professions may literally be measured against their actual practices.
Like other faith-communities, Baha’is have faith that an ideal can become
real. The efficacy of these Baha’i endeavors have been documented in sev-
eral sociological studies, such as in the 2006 monograph, The Equality of
Women and Men: The Experience of the Baha’i Community of Canada, by Debo-
rah K. van den Hoonaard, Canada Research Chair in Qualitative Research
and Analysis at St. Thomas University, Fredericton, New Brunswick, and
Will C. van den Hoonaard, Professor at the University of New Brunswick
and author of Walking the Tightrope: Ethical Issues for Qualitative Researchers.83
On the race relations front, doctoral research on the Baha’i community of
Atlanta, Georgia, revealed that “nearly one-fourth were black or African
American,” which is a significant demographic finding given the problem of
self-segregation in American religious settings. The author of that study, a
social scientist, observed that Baha’i efforts to promote race unity in Atlanta
“inform African American Baha’is in a way that Martin Luther King, Jr. or
Malcolm X cannot.”84
In fine, the destiny of America is to play a preponderating role in the
political process of establishing the Lesser Peace, as well as to lead all
nations spiritually in an evolutionary process culminating in the Most Great
Peace and a great world civilization. This future golden age is spoken of in
glorious terms by Shoghi Effendi, whose vision of it reads, in condensed
part, as follows:
• The unity of the human race, as envisaged by Baha’u’llah, implies the
establishment of a world commonwealth in which all nations, races,
creeds and classes are closely and permanently united . . .

322 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
• This commonwealth must . . . consist of a world legislature . . .
• A world executive, backed by an international Force, will . . . apply the
laws enacted by this world legislature . . .
• A world tribunal will adjudicate and deliver its compulsory and final
verdict in all and any disputes that may arise . . .
• A mechanism of world inter-communication will be devised . . .
• A world metropolis will act as the nerve center of a world civilization . . .
• A world language . . . will be taught in the schools of all the federated
nations as an auxiliary to their mother tongue.
• A world script, a world literature, a uniform and universal system of
currency, of weights and measures . . . will simplify and facilitate inter-
course and understanding among the nations . . .
• Science and religion, the two most potent forces in human life, will be
reconciled, will coöperate, and will harmoniously develop . . .
• The press will . . . cease to be mischievously manipulated by vested
interests, whether private or public . . .
• The economic resources of the world will be organized . . . and the
distribution of its products will be equitably regulated . . .
• Racial animosity and prejudice will be replaced by racial amity, under-
standing and coöperation . . .
• The causes of religious strife will be permanently removed . . .
• The inordinate distinction between classes will be obliterated . . .
• Universal recognition of one God and . . . allegiance to one common
Revelation—such is the goal towards which humanity, impelled by the
unifying forces of life, is moving.85
One cannot be but struck by the sheer scope, grandeur, and maturity of
this vision. It would appear that America—once successful in its mission
in taking a leading role in bringing about world unity, which will develop
in stages and progress as a gradual process—will gracefully become part
of the framework of the world federation of nations that it has helped
shape. A great catalyst in this process will be the burgeoning influence
of Baha’i principles that will further animate the progressive outlook of
world leaders.
Obviously none of this will happen by magic. One might well ask: How
will this noble vision ultimately be realized in the realm of the mundane?
How will all this be expected to come about? The short, but not simple,
answer is this: Beyond its emphasis on egalitarian social principles, the
Baha’i Faith’s grand vision of world unity necessarily requires a human spir-
itual transformation at the levels of the individual and community is needed
in order to put those principles into practice, involving “the spiritualization
of human consciousness and the emergence of the global civilization.”86
Overcoming racism and other social evils clearly requires both policy
and personal change. Here, precept and praxis go hand-in-hand. Baha’i

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 323
principles of unity will be effective only to the degree that they are put into
practice, both individually and collectively. The role of Baha’is in America
is to purify the inward life of their own community, to assail the racism and
other social evils in the American nation at large, and to offer in practice
and principle the Baha’i vision of world unity.87 This is concurrent with the
international relations role of America in establishing the Lesser Peace, a
process that has little to do with Baha’i efforts.
In the full-page display ad, “The Destiny of America and the Promise of
World Peace,” which appeared on page A29 in the New York Times on Decem-
ber 23, 2001,88 the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of the United
States quotes from a Baha’i prayer for America, revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Baha,
the full text of which is as follows:
O Thou kind Lord! This gathering is turning to Thee. These hearts are
radiant with Thy love. These minds and spirits are exhilarated by the mes-
sage of Thy glad-tidings. O God! Let this American democracy become
glorious in spiritual degrees even as it has aspired to material degrees, and
render this just government victorious. Confirm this revered nation to
upraise the standard of the oneness of humanity, to promulgate the Most
Great Peace, to become thereby most glorious and praiseworthy among all
the nations of the world. O God! This American nation is worthy of Thy
favors and is deserving of Thy mercy. Make it precious and near to Thee
through Thy bounty and bestowal.89
Here, this Baha’i “Prayer for America” envisions America’s world role,
which is “to upraise the standard of the oneness of humanity, to promul-
gate the Most Great Peace.” In their complementary role as a spiritualizing
and socially leavening influence, the American Baha’is—individually and
collectively—strive to do their part in realizing this noble vision. As Baha’i
philosopher Alain Locke (1895–1954) has said:
America’s democracy must begin at home with a spiritual fusion of all
her constituent peoples in brotherhood, and in an actual mutuality of
life. Until democracy is worked out in the vital small scale of practical
human relations, it can never, except as an empty formula, prevail on
the national or international basis. Until it establishes itself in human
hearts, it can never institutionally flourish. Moreover, America’s rep-
utation and moral influence in the world depends on the successful
achievement of this vital spiritual democracy within the lifetime of
the present generation. (Material civilization alone does not safeguard
the progress of a nation.) Baha’i Principles and the leavening of our
national life with their power, is to be regarded as the salvation of democ-
racy. In this way only can the fine professions of American ideals be
realized.90

Figure 12.2. Jenny Manybeads, a Diné (Navajo) Baha’i, embraced the Baha’i Faith in the
1950’s. At the age of 100, she is pictured here, in 1984, in front of her hogan (traditional
Navajo sacred home of wooden poles, tree bark and mud) in Dinnebito, Arizona. Rug
weaver, herbalist, and midwife, Manybeads was affectionately called the “Grandmother
of Big Mountain.” She passed away on November 3, 1999, at the age of 115.
(Photo courtesy of David Smith.)

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 325
Chapter 12 Update: America and the
“Golden Age” of Future World Civilization
This nation [America] so signally blest, occupying so eminent and respon-
sible a position in a continent so wonderfully endowed, . . . may well claim
to have, as a result of its effective participation in both the first and second
world wars, . . . saved mankind the horrors of devastation and bloodshed
involved in the prolongation of hostilities . . .
Nor can the preponderating influence exerted by this nation [America]
in the councils of the world, the prodigious economic and political power
that it wields, the prestige it enjoys, the wealth of which it disposes, the
idealism that animates its people, her magnificent contribution, as a result
of her unparalleled productive power, for the relief of human suffering
and the rehabilitation of peoples and nations, be overlooked in a survey of
the position which she holds, and which distinguishes her from her sister
nations in both the new and old worlds.
—Shoghi Effendi (June 5, 1947)91
America, in the Baha’i text above, exerts “preponderating influence” in
world affairs.
True enough. But what about America’s future?
The year 2012 marked the centenary of ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s historic visit to
America and Canada. Baha’i communities across North America hosted
special events in commemoration of ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s 239-day speaking tour
in 1912. By commemorating events that happened 100 years ago, partici-
pants had the opportunity to take stock of progress made so far, and of work
yet to be done. At this time, many Baha’is revisited the remarkable state-
ments by ‘Abdu’l-Baha and the role that America could prospectively play
in furthering the social evolution of the planet. America, with its political,
economical, scientific, and military might (not to mention its cultural influ-
ences as well), is in an ideal position to carry on its leadership role within
the international community, where multilateral partnerships, exchange,
reciprocity, and other forms of cooperation can make a significant difference
in the course of world affairs.
That same year, Robert Stockman published an insightful retrospective
history, ‘Abdu’l-Baha in America.92 Then, in 2013, Palgrave Macmillan pub-
lished a multi-author work, ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s Journey West: The Course of Human
Solidarity, including an article contributed by the present writer, “‘Abdu’l-
Baha’s 1912 Howard University Speech: A Civil War Myth for Interracial
Emancipation.”93 By its subtitle, the reader is introduced to the concept of
“interracial emancipation.” This unfamiliar term invites explanation. Con-
sidering that racism is a psychological and social disease that affects both
perpetrator and victim (albeit in different ways), not only does the victim
of racism need to be freed, psychologically as well as socially, so also the

326 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
perpetrator needs to be emancipated from what could well be analyzed as a
personality disorder that has become a character disorder when acted out.
This honored guest, ‘Abdu’l-Baha, complimented his host, America, in an
extraordinary way, as Shoghi Effendi highlights:
“May this American democracy,” He Himself, while in America, was heard
to remark, “be the first nation to establish the foundation of international
agreement. May it be the first nation to proclaim the unity of mankind.
May it be the first to unfurl the standard of the ‘Most Great Peace’. . . .
The American people are indeed worthy of being the first to build the tab-
ernacle of the great peace and proclaim the oneness of mankind. . . . May
America become the distributing center of spiritual enlightenment and all
the world receive this heavenly blessing. For America has developed powers
and capacities greater and more wonderful than other nations. . . . May the
inhabitants of this country become like angels of heaven with faces turned
continually toward God. May all of them become servants of the omnipo-
tent One. May they rise from their present material attainments to such a
height that heavenly illumination may stream from this center to all the
peoples of the world. . . . This American nation is equipped and empowered
to accomplish that which will adorn the pages of history, to become the
envy of the world and be blest in both the East and the West for the triumph
of its people. . . . The American continent gives signs and evidences of very
great advancement. Its future is even more promising, for its influence and
illumination are far-reaching. It will lead all nations spiritually.”94
These words are far from empty flattery. Nor are they pious hopes or
wishful thinking. They are pregnant with meaning. They are as much man-
dates as they are predictions. Their fulfillment is anticipated by Baha’is. Yet
the circumstances under which the necessary conditions may be met require
elucidation that, at best, must remain speculative. Where and when, one
may ask, were these statements regarding the spiritual destiny of America
made? One by one, their sources are as follows:
1. “May this American democracy be the first nation to establish the foundation
of international agreement. May it be the first nation to proclaim the unity of
mankind. May it be the first to unfurl the standard of the ‘Most Great Peace’.”
This mission statement, in which ‘Abdu’l-Baha expressed his vision of
America, was made on April 20, 2012, when ‘Abdu’l-Baha addressed
the Orient-Occident-Unity Conference, held in the Public Library
Hall, Washington, D.C.95 Shoghi Effendi has edited the words slightly
(such as “unity” in place of “universality”) from the notes taken by
Joseph H. Hannen of the contemporaneous translation given on that
occasion. On the same occasion, ‘Abdu’l-Baha continued: “The Amer-
ican people are indeed worthy of being the first to build the tabernacle
of the great peace and proclaim the oneness of mankind.”

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 327
2. “May America become the distributing center of spiritual enlightenment and
all the world receive this heavenly blessing. For America has developed pow-
ers and capacities greater and more wonderful than other nations.” The
occasion was ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s talk at the Hotel Ansonia in New York
on April 16, 1912. The text is based on a transcription of the English
translation by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab, which conveys ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s
prophetic benediction: “May the inhabitants of this country become like
angels of heaven with faces turned continually toward God. May all of them
become servants of the omnipotent One. May they rise from their present
material attainments to such a height that heavenly illumination may stream
from this center to all the peoples of the world.”96
3. “This American nation is equipped and empowered to accomplish that which
will adorn the pages of history, to become the envy of the world and be blest
in both the East and the West for the triumph of its people.”97 Here, the
occasion was a speech by ‘Abdu’l-Baha on May 6, 1912 at Euclid
Hall in Cleveland, Ohio. Shoghi Effendi has substituted “people” in
place of “democracy,” which probably captures the gist of the origi-
nal more faithfully than the wording of the stenographic notes of the
English translation given at that time.
4. “The American continent gives signs and evidences of very great advance-
ment. Its future is even more promising, for its influence and illumination
are far-reaching. It will lead all nations spiritually.”98 These momentous
words (based on the notes by Sigel T. Brooks of the contemporane-
ous translation) were uttered on the very same day, but at a different
venue in Cleveland. This talk took place at the Sanatorium of Dr.
C. M. Swingle,99 located at 2120 Prospect Avenue in Cleveland (or,
alternatively, at 8203 Wade Park Avenue N.E.). Dr. Swingle gradu-
ated from the Cleveland Homeopathic College in 1908 and, in 1909,
was affiliated with the McFadden Sanatorium (the “Bernarr Macfad-
den Healthatorium”) in Chicago.100
Based on this source-critical analysis, the foregoing quotations are Abdu’l-
Baha’s statements in the original Persian language, the contemporaneous
English translations of which were recorded and are best characterized as
“reported utterances.” That is to say, the English translations may or may not
be verbatim representations of ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s original discourses in Persian.
However, the gist is considered accurate whenever authenticated by Shoghi
Effendi, under this operative principle: “The Universal House of Justice has
asked us to affirm that the utterances of ‘Abdu’l-Baha quoted in the writings
of the Guardian can be taken as authentic.”101 Apparently, this is an exception
to the general rule elsewhere enunciated by Shoghi Effendi: “Nothing can be
considered scripture for which we do not have an original text.”102 On the basis
of this principle, the authentication by citation by Shoghi Effendi is one of
purport—in which the statement is confirmed as historically accurate—even
if that citation may or may not be a translation of the original words verbatim.

328 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Thus ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s prophecy that America “will lead all nations spiri-
tually” is considered authentic. The question remains as to what this
statement means, and how (and when) this prediction will come true.
Baha’i teachings on the destiny of America are prophetic in two ways. Not
only do they foretell America’s future world role, they forthtell how America
can best live up to its world role in promoting world peace and prosperity. The
former depends on the latter. Before revisiting the Baha’i vision of America’s
mission, a brief comment on what is meant by “prophecy” will prove useful.
According to the Oxford English Dictionary, “prophecy,” first and foremost,
is “that which is done or spoken by a prophet; the action or practice of
revealing or expressing the will or thought of God or of a god; divinely
inspired utterance or discourse.” This leads, in turn, to the more popular
notion of “prophecy,” i.e., “the action of foretelling or predicting the future;
prediction, prognostication; an instance of this, a prediction.” So a prophecy
is not simply a mantic vaticination or portent of future events. Rather than
a crystal ball, such “second sight” is foresight driven by insight. The future
is a consequence of the present.
Fulfillment of prophecy does not come about happenstance. The condi-
tions perforce must be ripe and right for anything of consequence to occur.
So, in order for America to be a world leader and a catalyst for bringing
about a sea change in international relations, America itself must take up
that mission self-consciously. In other words, how can America help bring
about world unity, unless and until America sees itself as instrumental in
bringing about that goal? That, in itself, presupposes a vision of world unity
as something desirable.
The Baha’i Vision of World Unity
In the first edition, this chapter closed with a quote from Baha’i philosopher,
Alain Locke, who said: “Baha’i Principles and the leavening of our national
life with their power, is to be regarded as the salvation of democracy. In this
way only can the fine professions of American ideals be realized.”103 On
September 13, 2014, Dr. Locke was honored in a special ceremony hosted
by the American Association of Rhodes Scholars, in which his cremated
ashes—stored for decades in the archives at Howard University—were,
at long last, interred, with honor and distinction, at the Congressional
Cemetery in Washington, DC. A nine-pointed star—a symbol of Baha’i
identity—was engraved on the of Locke’s dignified headstone.104 In a way,
this chapter update is something of a commentary on how Baha’i principles
can contribute, in their own way, to ideally realizing “the fine professions of
American ideals” in order to achieve the “salvation of democracy” by way of
material and spiritual interventions.
Baha’i teachings call on America to play a leadership role in promot-
ing “world patriotism.” Asking America, as a nation, to actively engage in

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 329
promoting ideal international relations is really a call to all nations to do so,
as their respective resources and commitments permit. America simply has
a greater capability, given its unique role as the world’s superpower, Amer-
ica, therefore, should do its part in helping usher in an era where America
itself will no longer even need to play a leadership role once the infrastruc-
ture of world self-government, through a federation of nations, is put in
place. Such infrastructures of world self-governance would (or should) be
tasked with the primary responsibility of overseeing conflict resolution, of
eradicating of extremes of wealth and poverty, of safeguarding political,
economic, religious, and cultural rights, and of promoting harmonious rela-
tions within and between nations, races, religions, and genders, etc.
One way to foster unity is to break down barriers and to bridge divides.
As Baha’i philosopher, Alain Locke, said: “No more progressive step can
be made in our present civilization than the breaking down of the barriers
which separate races, sexes and nations” (1930).105 The Baha’i paradigm of
world unity has recently been analyzed, in the form of a typology (or sys-
tematic classification) as follows:
FIFTY BAHA’I PRINCIPLES OF UNITY
I. INDIVIDUAL RELATIONSHIP WITH GOD: (1) “Mystic Feeling which
Unites Man with God”; II. FAMILY RELATIONS: (2) Unity of Husband
and Wife; (3) Unity of the Family; III. INTERPERSONAL RELATIONS: (4)
Oneness of Emotions; (5) Spiritual Oneness; IV. GENDER RELATIONS:
(6) Unity of the Rights of Men and Women; (7) Unity in Education; V. ECO-
NOMIC RELATIONS: (8) Economic Unity; (9) Unity of People and Wealth;
VI. RACE RELATIONS: (10) Unity in Diversity; (11) Unity of Races; VII.
ENVIRONMENTAL RELATIONS: (12) Unity of Existence (Oneness of
Being and Manifestation; (13) Unity of Species; (14) Unity with the Envi-
ronment; VIII. INTERFAITH RELATIONS: (15) Unity of God; (16) Mystic
Unity of God and His Manifestations; (17) Unity of the Manifestations of
God; (18) Unity of Truth; (19) Unity Among Religions; (20) Peace Among
Religions; IX. SCIENTIFIC RELATIONS: (21) Unity of Science and Reli-
gion; (22) Methodological Coherence; (23) Unity of Thought in World
Undertakings; X. LINGUISTIC RELATIONS: (24) Unity of Language; XI.
INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS: (25) Unity of Conscience; (26) Unity in
Freedom; (27) Evolving Social Unities; (28) Unity in the Political Realm;
(29) Unity of Nations; (30) Unity of All Mankind/World Unity; (31) Unity
of the World Commonwealth; (32) Unity of the Free; XII. BAHA’I RELA-
TIONS: (33) Unity of the Baha’i Revelation; (34) All-Unifying Power; (35)
Unity of Doctrine; (36) Unity of Meaning; (37) Baha’i Unity; (38) Unity
among Baha’i Women; (39) Unity in Religion; (40) Unity of Station; (41)
Unity of Souls; (42) Unity in Speech; (43) Unity in [Ritual] Acts; (44) Unity
of Baha’i Administration; (45) Unity of Purpose; (46) Unity of Means; (47)
Unity of Vision; (48) Unity of Action; (49) Unity of the Spiritual Assembly;
(50) Unity of Houses of Justice and Governments.106

330 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
This paradigm, while comprehensive, is not exhaustive. It illustrates the
local-to-global importance of unity, from “individual to international rela-
tions.” This is a special contribution of Baha’i teachings to contemporary
religious thought and practice.
America’s World Role—As a Dual Role
In the Baha’i view, America has a salvific purpose in the greater scheme
of things. This “destiny” is not a given, as necessary conditions must be
met in order for America’s destiny to be fully realized. Such rhetoric is
more motivational than it is clairvoyant. Baha’i pronouncements regarding
America have a dual focus. One is on America as a nation. The other is on
the American Baha’i community. The contributions of both are considered
vital to progress toward world peace and prosperity.
The Baha’i vision of America has secular and religious dimensions. The
secular dimension views America within the “Major Plan of God” leading to
the “Lesser Peace” (a political peace among the nation-states of the world).
The religious dimension views the American Baha’i community as part of
the “Minor Plan of God” culminating in the “Most Great Peace” (a spiritual
world commonwealth).
In fine, the Baha’i vision of America is that it will be “prepared to play
a preponderating role, as foretold by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in the hoisting of the
standard of the Lesser Peace, in the unification of mankind, and in the
establishment of a world federal government on this planet” by “assuming
the role of world spiritual leadership forecast by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s unerring
pen.”107 In short, America will contribute to the rise of a world civilization
which, in the fullness of time, will bring about a Golden Age.
The fact that Baha’i texts, previously cited, point to a greater potential for
America to exert influence in the world in a spiritually significant way—just
as America has done politically, scientifically, and economically—should not
imply that America has any special distinction apart from its obvious poten-
tial. It is America’s capacity that the Baha’i writings seek to inspire and
potentialize. Ideally, the special contribution of the Baha’i Faith, in essence,
is to promote the consciousness of human solidarity. Ideally, the special
contribution of America, as a nation, is to apply that consciousness to the
political, economic, and scientific tasks at hand. America, if it realizes its
potential and arises to fulfill its God-given purpose, will realize its destiny,
from the Baha’i perspective, in the following way:
Whatever the Hand of a beneficent and inscrutable Destiny has reserved
for this youthful, this virile, this idealistic, this spiritually blessed and
enviable nation [America], however severe the storms which may buffet it
in the days to come in either hemisphere, however sweeping the changes
which the impact of cataclysmic forces from without, and the stirrings of

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America
D'LYLQHHPEU\RQLF2UGHUIURPZLWKLQZLOOHŲHFWLQLWVVWUXFWXUHDQGOLIH
ZHPD\FRQÀGHQWLQWKHZRUGVXWWHUHGE\¶$EGX·O%DKiIHHODVVXUHGWKDW
WKDWJUHDWUHSXEOLF³WKHVKHOOWKDWHQVKULQHVVRSUHFLRXVDPHPEHURIWKH
ZRUOGFRPPXQLW\RIWKHIROORZHUVRI+LV)DWKHU³ZLOOFRQWLQXHWRHYROYH
XQGLYLGHGDQGXQGHIHDWDEOHXQWLOWKHVXPWRWDORILWVFRQWULEXWLRQVWRWKH
ELUWKWKHULVHDQGWKHIUXLWLRQRIWKDWZRUOGFLYLOL]DWLRQWKHFKLOGRIWKH
0RVW*UHDW3HDFHDQGKDOOPDUNRIWKH*ROGHQ$JHRIWKH'LVSHQVDWLRQRI
%DKi·X·OOiKZLOOKDYHEHHQPDGHDQGLWVODVWWDVNGLVFKDUJHG108
$PHULFD DV D QDWLRQ DQG WKH $PHULFDQ %DKD·L FRPPXQLW\ FDQQRW
DFFRPSOLVKWKHVHJRDOVDORQH:RUOGSHDFHDQGXQLW\DUHJOREDOREMHFWLYHV
UHTXLULQJXQLYHUVDOSDUWLFLSDWLRQ7KHEHVWDQGPRVWWKDW$PHULFDFDQGR
LVWRGRLWVSDUW³DQGWRLQVSLUHWKHUHVWRIWKHZRUOGWRGRLWVSDUWDVZHOO
How America’s Parallel Roles Intersect
$PHULFD·V ZRUOG UROH LV REYLRXVO\ LQGHSHQGHQW RI WKH %DKD·L FRPPXQLW\
ZKLFK LQ DQ\ FDVH SUHVFLQGV IURP SDUWLVDQ SROLWLFV ZKLFK %DKD·LV FRQ
VLGHUGLYLVLYHDQGWKHUHIRUHMXGLFLRXVO\DYRLG$VSUHYLRXVO\SRLQWHGRXW
3UHVLGHQW:RRGURZ:LOVRQZDVWKHÀUVWWRFOHDUO\HVWDEOLVK$PHULFD·VZRUOG
UROHDVDPDWWHURIIRUHLJQSROLF\7KH%DKD·LZULWLQJVKRQRU3UHVLGHQW:LO
VRQIRUKLVFRQWULEXWLRQWRWKHHYHQWXDOIRUPDWLRQRIWKH8QLWHG1DWLRQV
ZKLFKURVHOLNHD3KRHQL[RQWKHDVKHVRILWVSUHGHFHVVRUWKH/HDJXHRI
1DWLRQV$VDOVRVWDWHGHDUOLHU%DKD·LWH[WVQRWVRPXFKKRQRU3UHVLGHQW
:RRGURZ:LOVRQLQGLYLGXDOO\DVWKH\GRKLVOHJDF\RI´:LOVRQLDQLGHDOLVPµ
LQ JHQHUDO DQG LQ SDUWLFXODU :LOVRQLDQ LQWHUQDWLRQDOLVP DV LW UHODWHV WR
$PHULFD·VZRUOGUROH7KLVPD\EHLOOXVWUDWHGE\DVHFRQGDXWKHQWLFSUD\HU
IRU$PHULFDDQDXWKRUL]HGWUDQVODWLRQRIZKLFKZDVUHOHDVHGE\WKH8QLYHU
VDO+RXVHRI-XVWLFHDQGVXEVHTXHQWO\SXEOLVKHGLQ01
$35$<(5)257+(&21),50$7,212)
7+( $0(5,&$1 *29(510(17
2 P\ *RG 2 7KRX :KR HQGRZHVW HYHU\ MXVW SRZHU DQG HTXLWDEOH
GRPLQLRQ ZLWK DELGLQJ JORU\ DQG HYHUODVWLQJ PLJKW ZLWK SHUPDQHQFH DQG
VWDELOLW\ ZLWK FRQVWDQF\ DQG KRQRXU $LG 7KRX E\ 7K\ KHDYHQO\ JUDFH HY
HU\ JRYHUQPHQW WKDW DFWHWK MXVWO\ WRZDUGV LWV VXEMHFWV DQG HYHU\ VRYHUHLJQ
DXWKRULW\ GHULYHG IURP 7KHH WKDW VKLHOGHWK WKH SRRU DQG WKH ZHDN XQGHU
WKH EDQQHU RI LWV SURWHFWLRQ
, EHVHHFK 7KHH E\ 7K\ GLYLQH JUDFH DQG VXUSDVVLQJ ERXQW\ WR DLG WKLV
MXVW JRYHUQPHQW WKH FDQRS\ RI ZKRVH DXWKRULW\ LV VSUHDG RYHU YDVW DQG
PLJKW\ ODQGV DQG WKH HYLGHQFHV RI ZKRVH MXVWLFH DUH DSSDUHQW LQ LWV SURV
SHURXV DQG ÁRXULVKLQJ UHJLRQV $VVLVW 2 P\ *RG LWV KRVWV UDLVH DORIW
LWV HQVLJQV EHVWRZ LQÁXHQFH XSRQ LWV ZRUG DQG LWV XWWHUDQFH SURWHFW LWV
ODQGV LQFUHDVH LWV KRQRXU VSUHDG LWV IDPH UHYHDO LWV VLJQV DQG XQIXUO LWV

God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
EDQQHU WKURXJK 7KLQH DOOVXEGXLQJ SRZHU DQG 7K\ UHVSOHQGHQW PLJKW LQ
WKH NLQJGRP RI FUHDWLRQ
7KRX YHULO\ DLGHVW ZKRPVRHYHU 7KRX ZLOOHVW DQG 7KRX YHULO\ DUW WKH
$OPLJKW\ WKH 0RVW 3RZHUIXO109
7KH RULJLQDO $UDELF WH[W LV DYDLODEOH RQOLQH110 $ PHPRUDQGXP ´3UD\HUV
IRU $PHULFDµ -XO\ 0 01 E\ WKH 5HVHDUFK 'HSDUWPHQW DQ DJHQF\ RI 7KH
8QLYHUVDO +RXVH RI -XVWLFH DFFRPSDQ\LQJ WKH QHZO\DXWKRUL]HG WUDQVODWLRQ
VWDWHV ´7KH SUD\HU LQ TXHVWLRQ LV DXWKHQWLF DQG LWV RULJLQDO $UDELF WH[W LV
KHOG LQ WKH $UFKLYHV DW WKH %DKi·t :RUOG &HQWUH 7KH PDQXVFULSW LQFOXGHV WKH
IROORZLQJ KHDGLQJ LQ (QJOLVK ¶$ 3UD\HU IRU WKH FRQÀUPDWLRQ RI WKH $PHULFDQ
*RYHUQPHQW· µ :KHQ WKH WZR %DKD·L SUD\HUV IRU $PHULFD DUH UHDG WRJHWKHU
WKHQ $PHULFD·V LGHDO ZRUOG UROH LV FOHDU IRU $PHULFD WR ´OHDG DOO QDWLRQV
VSLULWXDOO\µ DV IRUHWROG E\ ¶$EGX·O%DKD RQ 0D\  191 LQ &OHYHODQG DQG
IRU *RG WR ´EHVWRZ LQÁXHQFH XSRQ LWV ZRUG DQG LWV XWWHUDQFHµ $PHULFD
PXVW ´XSUDLVH WKH VWDQGDUG RI WKH RQHQHVV RI KXPDQLW\µ DQG ´SURPXOJDWH
WKH 0RVW *UHDW 3HDFHµ DV XUJHG E\ ¶$EGX·O%DKD LQ KLV RWKHU SUD\HU IRU
$PHULFD JLYHQ RQ $SULO 30 191 LQ &KLFDJR
6KRJKL (ŲHQGL·V FOHDU SURQRXQFHPHQWV RQ $PHULFD·V VSLULWXDO GHVWLQ\ DUH
JURXQGHG QRW RQO\ LQ VWDWHPHQWV ERWK RUDO DQG ZULWWHQ E\ $EGX·O%DKD
EXW DOVR LQ VWDWHPHQWV DWWULEXWHG WR %DKD·X·OODK
>7@KH 5XOHUV RI $PHULFD ZHUH QRW RQO\ VSDUHG WKH RPLQRXV DQG HPSKDWLF
ZDUQLQJV ZKLFK +H >%DKD·X·OODK@ XWWHUHG DJDLQVW WKH FURZQHG KHDGV RI
WKH ZRUOG EXW ZHUH FDOOHG XSRQ WR EULQJ WKHLU FRUUHFWLYH DQG KHDOLQJ LQ
ÁXHQFH WR EHDU XSRQ WKH LQMXVWLFHV SHUSHWUDWHG E\ WKH W\UDQQLFDO DQG WKH
XQJRGO\ 7R WKLV UHPDUNDEOH SURQRXQFHPHQW FRQIHUULQJ VXFK GLVWLQFWLRQ
XSRQ WKH VRYHUHLJQ UXOHUV RI WKH :HVWHUQ +HPLVSKHUH PXVW EH DGGHG QRW
RQO\ WKH SDVVDJHV LQ ZKLFK WKH $XWKRU RI RXU )DLWK >%DKD·X·OODK@ FOHDUO\
IRUHVKDGRZV WKH UHYHODWLRQ RI WKH ´VLJQV RI +LV GRPLQLRQµ LQ WKH :HVW
EXW DOVR WKH QR OHVV VLJQLÀFDQW YHUEDO DűUPDWLRQV ZKLFK DFFRUGLQJ WR
UHOLDEOH H\HZLWQHVVHV +H PRUH WKDQ RQFH PDGH LQ UHJDUG WR the glorious
destiny which America was to attain in the days to come111
+HUH 6KRJKL (ŲHQGL FRQÀUPV WKDW %DKD·X·OODK VSRNH PRUH WKDQ RQFH RI
´WKH JORULRXV GHVWLQ\ ZKLFK $PHULFD ZDV WR DWWDLQ LQ WKH GD\V WR FRPHµ
7KDW VDLG $PHULFD ZLOO QRW FKDQJH WKH ZRUOG E\ LWVHOI 7R VXFFHHG XQLODWHUDO
LQLWLDWLYHV FDQ EHVW VHUYH DV D FDWDO\VW IRU VHFXULQJ PXOWLODWHUDO DJUHHPHQWV
UDLVLQJ WKH UHVRXUFHV DQG VWHHOLQJ WKH UHVROYH QHHGHG WR IROORZ WKURXJK LQ
FRQVWUXFWLQJ WKH LQIUDVWUXFWXUHV WKDW FDQ VHUYH DV WKH WKHZ DQG VLQHZ RI D
JOREDO V\VWHP WKDW FDQ DFW HTXLWDEO\ WR HŲHFWLYHO\ DGMXGLFDWH LQWHUQDWLRQDO
FRQÁLFWV DQG DUELWHU PXWXDOO\ IDYRUDEOH RXWFRPHV
%DKD·X·OODK FUHDWHG DQ LQVWLWXWLRQ IRU IRU WKH SXUSRVH RI KHOSLQJ EULQJ
DERXW ZRUOG SHDFH 7KLV %DKD·L LQVWLWXWLRQ LV NQRZQ DV WKH 8QLYHUVDO +RXVH
RI -XVWLFH )LUVW HOHFWHG E\ %DKD·L UHSUHVHQWDWLYHV ZRUOGZLGH LQ 193 WKH
33

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 333
Universal House of Justice acts pursuant to an explicit mandate. Baha’u’llah
called upon the Universal House of Justice to promote world peace. In Baha’i
parlance, this is referred to as the “Lesser Peace,” which is distinct from the
“Most Great Peace.” In the Tablet of the World (1891), Baha’u’llah states:
Whilst in the Prison of ‘Akká, We revealed in the Crimson Book that which
is conducive to the advancement of mankind and to the reconstruction of
the world. The utterances set forth therein by the Pen of the Lord of cre-
ation include the following which constitute the fundamental principles
for the administration of the affairs of men:
First: It is incumbent upon the ministers of the House of Justice to
promote the Lesser Peace so that the people of the earth may be relieved
from the burden of exorbitant expenditures. This matter is imperative and
absolutely essential, inasmuch as hostilities and conflict lie at the root of
affliction and calamity.112
While the Universal House of Justice was ordained by Baha’u’llah as the
international governing body of the Baha’i community, even now laying the
groundwork for the Most Great Peace to come in the future, Bahá’u’lláh
also called upon the House of Justice to promote the Lesser Peace, a politi-
cal peace among nations. How the Universal House of Justice is supposed
“to promote the Lesser Peace” is not explicitly spelled out. It presupposes
some degree of respect and influence in the international community. Pre-
sumably, the role of the House of Justice is an advisory one. It may be called
upon by governments in a purely consultative capacity. It is worth noting
that, on the occasion of the 1986 International Year of Peace, the Univer-
sal House of Justice issued a public statement, “The Promise of World
Peace.”113 While addressed “To the Peoples of the World,” this statement
is directed particularly to world leaders. “The Promise of World Peace” was
first presented to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Javier Pérez
de Cuellar, on November 22, 1985 by Baha’i dignitary, Ruhiyyih Khanum,
wife of the late Guardian of the Baha’i Faith, Shoghi Effendi. Currently, the
worldwide Baha’i community is represented in the United Nations through
its nongovernmental organization (NGO), the Baha’i International Com-
munity (BIC), which has offices in New York, Geneva and Brussels. Thus it
could be said that the Baha’is pursue a form of Wilsonian idealism by their
active involvement in the United Nations vis-à-vis the BIC.
Since its initial presentation to the United Nations, “The Promise of
World Peace” has been presented to heads of state and government leaders
all over the world. At the same time, vigorous grassroots campaigns to dis-
seminate effectively the Baha’i peace message at all possible localities were
successfully launched. As a result, several million copies of the document
have been personally given by Baha’is to civic and religious leaders as well
as to ordinary citizens in most countries. No direct action was expected
to ensue from “The Promise of World Peace.” Ideally, it would serve as a

334 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
catalyst for the comprehensive peace program it articulates. “The Promise
of World Peace” may be seen as the official Baha’i contribution to peace
literature and to the peace process itself. The document draws attention to
the fact that the Baha’i community—itself a social experiment in unity on
a grand scale—represents a viable collectivity in which peace-related issues
have been raised to the level of principle and creatively implemented.
The Universal House of Justice itself cannot bring about the Lesser Peace.
But it can accelerate social forces that lead to international integration. The
international Baha’i council nows orchestrates and overseas work that is
currently being done at the grassroots level. The Baha’i world, in fact, is
undergoing a profound transformation that may be characterized as a par-
adigm-shift in Baha’i culture and community life. Throughout the world,
Baha’is reach out, in their own neighborhoods, to children, junior youth and
youth, by organizing children’s classes and “Junior Youth Spiritual Empow-
erment Programs” for the moral and spiritual education of young people,
and to instill in them a strong sense of purpose that is service-oriented.
Since this is a universal Baha’i enterprise in which the Baha’is across the
world are systematically engaged, it is not specific to the American Baha’i
community. These processes are interrelated, as the Baha’i International
Community has explained in its statement presented to the Third Nishan
Forum on World Civilizations (Shandong University) on May 22, 2014:
The Baha’i International Community is an international non-governmental
organization that has been active at the United Nations and other interna-
tional fora for over 60 years. The Baha’i community’s association with the
United Nations dates back to the League of Nations and has its roots in the
global vision that animates the teachings of the Baha’i Faith. . . .
As a global community, then, Baha’is are consciously striving to learn
how populations of every kind and background can develop the capacity to
take charge of their material, intellectual, social and moral development. . . .
Local efforts to improve the well-being of individual neighborhoods,
villages and communities carried out by Baha’is and their like-minded col-
laborators provide key grounding and insight for the Baha’i International
Community’s work at the United Nations.114
This last paragraph refers to a new paradigm of community-building
within the Baha’i world, launched in 1996. Baha’i communities are now
organized in “clusters.” Each cluster encompasses communities in rea-
sonable proximity in any given location. The current Baha’i program of
community-building is essentially one of introducing spiritual concepts and
practices, of developing interpersonal skills and instilling an orientation to
community service. This is accomplished through the Baha’i “institute pro-
cess”—where “institute” refers to the Ruhi Institute and the curriculum of
“Ruhi books” that it has produced. One feature of the institute process is
the formation of “study circles.”

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 335
Participants in study circles are taken through a sequence of Ruhi books
that feature brief introductions, key readings, and study questions. The
questions are disarmingly simple and may on first impression, strike edu-
cated participants as rudimentary. This is because the study circles have
been field-tested in rural villages in Third-world countries, to fine-tune
the effectiveness of this approach at all levels of society. The program is
informed by advanced pedagogy, in theory and practice. The institute pro-
cess—of forming and facilitating study circles based on a sequence of Ruhi
books accompanied by skill-building activities—is essentially a human
resource development program.
Typically, the first social skill taught in the Ruhi sequence is that of “home
visits.” This is all about connecting hearts through face-to-face interactions
that build friendships through acts of caring and sharing. The “home visit”
is a surprisingly effective skill at the grassroots level. The sustained practice
of home visits broadens the social basis of Baha’i outreach to the wider
“community of interest,” i.e., those who have expressed interest in engag-
ing with the Baha’is and their community activities. Home visits are made
to Baha’is and non-Baha’is alike. What matters is unity, not affiliation.
Another skill that is cultivated in this sequence of courses is the practice
of holding “devotional meetings” in one’s home, in which neighbors and
friends are invited to worship together. The advantage of Baha’i worship
conducted within homes is that they offer a heartwarming environment.
Another Baha’i community-building practice is hosting neighborhood
children’s classes (NCC) in local neighborhoods. In NCCs throughout
the world today, children are taught moral and spiritual virtues, which are
universal human and social values. Virtues transcend faith-commitments.
Baha’i sponsorship of this process, while clearly known to the parents of the
children being taught, is not necessarily stressed. Personal transformation
is what counts. The Baha’i teachings are simply a vehicle for improving the
quality of personal and social life.
Baha’is also establish junior youth groups (JYGs). As a social and eco-
nomic development project on a world scale, the Baha’i-sponsored “Junior
Youth Spiritual Empowerment Programme” helps young people develop
spiritual and intellectual capacity, understanding their true identity as noble
beings. While themes are explored from a Baha’i perspective, this is not
done in the mode of religious instruction. Overseen by the Office for Social
and Economic Development at the Baha’i World Centre in Haifa, Israel, JYG
“animators” are told, in fact, not to use junior youth groups as a means of
direct teaching of the Baha’i Faith. Junior youth groups are led by “anima-
tors,” who are typically a mix of youth and adults. Youth are considered
essential protagonists in the community-building processes, in which they
are taking on every role. In fact, there are a statistically significant number
of youth from the wider “community of interest” (outside the Baha’i com-
munity), who are serving as JYG animators as well, some of whom have
come up through the program themselves.

336 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Engaging in service to one’s community is an essential component of
junior youth groups, which are all about moral and interpersonal “spiritual
empowerment.” By assisting the youth to develop in their hearts and minds
their sense of purpose, values and commitment to the betterment of self
and society, consciousness is raised and the local community is leavened by
their influence. A set of beneficial values is instilled in a new generation, as
they are equipped to make enlightened choices in life.
These avenues for the moral and ethical education junior youth are essential
to the immediate future of Baha’i communities. Such moral and social uplift
begins with the seeds of a few individuals in each locality. By cultivating in
junior youth a habit of moral and ethical thinking, and of aspiring for a spiritual
direction in one’s daily life, this program has the power to create transforma-
tions at an early age to help shape them into dynamic agents of change. This
program, still in its infancy, has untapped spiritual and social potential.
All of the activities described above are advanced through quarterly
reflection meetings at the cluster level among all who are participating, for
the purpose of learning from experience and formulating specific plans for
the next quarter. There are various appointed coordinator roles at the clus-
ter level that facilitate these processes.
The entire approach is coherent and systematic in nature, with an empha-
sis in developing a “culture of learning” that has a built-in capacity for
innovation on an experimental basis. The dynamics of this collective learning
system is continually being tested and refined. In the process, developing
human capacity for worthwhile service is a cornerstone of this worldwide
Baha’i program of outreach and community resource development. There are
more than 3,000 clusters around the globe in which this pattern of com-
munity-building activities is proceeding in a systematic fashion, including
a number of advanced clusters making great progress which have been des-
ignated as “learning sites,” providing insights for applying their learning
elsewhere. Also in advanced clusters, Baha’is engage, at all levels of society,
in the prevalent “discourses of society” and in “social action” as well.
Taken together, these efforts progressively advance the work of spiritually
empowering children, junior youth and youth, of expanding and consolidat-
ing Baha’i communities, of engaging in the public discourses of society, and
of initiating social action. This is an evolving conceptual framework, a matrix
that, through the process of learning from experience, becomes more elab-
orate over time. This concerted, worldwide endeavor has created a Baha’i
culture that systematically learns to think and act in an integrative way.
At the wider community level, Baha’i communities still observe the
“Nineteen-Day Feast,” in which the members of the Baha’i community
come together for worship, consultation, and fellowship. Thus, while there
is a primary emphasis on the “core activities” (children’s classes, junior
youth groups, devotional meetings, and study circles), there is a comple-
ment of “essential activities” (Nineteen-Day Feasts, Baha’i Holy Days, etc.),
along with Baha’i schools in various regions that offer deepening in various

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 337
Baha’i topics of interest, providing edifying enrichment. As the Universal
House of Justice wrote in its letter of December 27, 2005: “To maintain
focus [prioritizing “core activities”] does not imply that special needs and
interests are neglected, much less that essential activities are dropped in
order to accommodate others.” What all these activities have in common is
the process of fostering unity and encouraging service to others.
How does all of this relate back to America’s world role, from the Baha’i
perspective? By linking ideals and practice, the foregoing description of cur-
rent Baha’i activities helps make tangible and real what Baha’i individuals,
Baha’i communities and institutions are doing to advance the Baha’i vision
explained throughout the chapter.
The spiritual destiny of America still inspires the minds and hearts of the
America Baha’is. For instance, on December 26, 2014, the Spiritual Assembly
of the Baha’is of Phoenix, Arizona, opened the 30th Annual Grand Canyon
Baha’i Conference with a welcome letter that imparted this message:
‘Abdu’l-Baha . . . refers to the America nation as “equipped and empow-
ered to accomplish that which will adorn the pages of history, to become
the envy of the world.”115 Friends, fulfilling the destiny of this great nation
as prophesied by the Master rests solely on our shoulders. Let us renew
our love and our commitment. Let us wholeheartedly support our Institu-
tions. Let us accompany one another. Let us accompany and empower the
youth, junior youth and our children to walk the path of service.116
America’s spiritual destiny, in the Baha’i view, is a two-track process,
involving the Major Plan of God (America’s domestic and international rela-
tions) and the Minor Plan of God (the contribution of the American Baha’i
community, at home and abroad). The passage, quoted above, focuses on the
latter approach to social transformation. Ideally, the energy of both processes
will exhibit splendid moments of synergy in further spiritualizing America.
Notes

1. Qtd. in Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i
Publishing Trust, 1990 [1938]), 87–88. See also ‘Abdu’l-Baha, “Talk at
Sanatorium of Dr. C.M. Swingle, Cleveland, Ohio, 6 May 1912. Notes by
Sigel T. Brooks.” Promulgation of Universal Peace (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Pub-
lishing Trust, 1982), 104. (“All the cities of America seem to be large and
beautiful, and the people appear prosperous. The American continent gives
signs and evidences of very great advancement; its future is even more
promising, for its influence and illumination are far-reaching, and it will lead
all nations spiritually. The flag of freedom and banner of liberty have been
unfurled here, but the prosperity and advancement of a city, the happiness
and greatness of a country depend upon its hearing and obeying the call of
God.” [Emphasis added.])

338 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America

2. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, “Tablet to the Baha’is of the Central States.” Tablets of the
Divine Plan (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1993), 79.

3. This claim excludes what historians and phenomenologists of religion call
“new religious movements” (NRMs), which properly belong to larger reli-
gious categories, such as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
(presented in Chapter 6), which is part of Christianity (marginally so by
orthodox standards), or like the Nation of Islam (treated in Chapter 8),
which is an Islamic movement based in the United States.

4. Qtd. in and trans. by Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baha’u’llah (Wil-
mette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1991 [1936]), 36.

5. Shoghi Effendi, “America and the Most Great Peace.” The World Order of
Baha’u’llah, 81.

6. See official announcement, “World Heritage Site: Bahá’i Holy Places.” See
also Baha’i International Community, “Baha’i shrines chosen as World
Heritage sites.”

7. Vince Gerasole (CBS), “Rare Wilmette Temple Makes Cut in ‘7 Wonders’
List” (April 30, 2007).

8. Christopher Buck, “The Eschatology of Globalization: Baha’u’llah’s Multi-
ple-Messiahship Revisited.” Studies in Modern Religions, Religious Movements
and the Babi-Baha’i Faiths. Ed. Moshe Sharon. Numen Book Series: Studies
in the History of Religions, 104 (Leiden: Brill Academic Publishers, 2004),
143–178; idem, “A Unique Eschatological Interface: Baha’u’llah and Cross-
Cultural Messianism.” In Iran. Ed. Peter Smith (Los Angeles: Kalimát Press,
1986), 157–179.

9. Baha’u’llah, “Queen Victoria.” The Summons of the Lord of Hosts (Haifa:
Baha’i World Centre, 2002), 91.

10. This section is primarily based on a prior publication by the author: Chris-
topher Buck, “Baha’i Faith and Social Action.” Encyclopedia of Activism and
Social Justice. Ed. Gary L. Anderson and Kathryn G. Herr (Thousand Oaks,
CA: Sage Publications, 2007), vol. 1, 208–213.

11. Baha’i World Centre. “The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: Its Place in Baha’i Literature.” The
Baha’i World (Haifa: Baha’i World Centre, 1993), 107.

12. Baha’u’llah. Tablets of Baha’u’llah Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (Wilmette,
IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1978), 67.

13. See Armin Eschraghi, “‘Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy’: Some
Notes on the Báb’s Sharí’ah (Sacred Law).” A Most Noble Pattern: Collected
Essays on the Writings of the Báb, ‘Alí Muhammad Shírází (1819–1850). Ed. Todd
Lawson and Omid Ghaemmaghami (Oxford: George Ronald, 2012).

14. Universal House of Justice, The Constitution of the Universal House of Justice
(Haifa: Baha’i World Centre, 1973), 5.

15. David B. Barrett, ed., World Christian Encyclopedia: A Comparative Study of
Churches and Religions in the Modern World, A.D. 1900–2000 (Oxford and
New York: Oxford University Press, 1982).

16. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Paris Talks: Addresses given by ‘Abdu’l-Baha in Paris in 1911–1912.
11th ed. (London: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1969), 159.

17. Baha’u’llah, The Hidden Words of Baha’u’llah (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publish-
ing Trust, 1985), 3–4.

18. Baha’u’llah, “Queen Victoria.” The Summons of the Lord of Hosts (Haifa:
Baha’i World Centre, 2002), 90.

19. Ibid., 92.

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 339

20. Baha’i International Community, “Sustainable Development and the
Human Spirit.” Based on the statement, “The Most Vital Challenge,” pre-
sented to the Plenary of the United Nations Conference on Environment
and Development (UNCED, Earth Summit ‘92).

21. Ibid.

22. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Baha. Compiled by the
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice. Translated by Mar-
zieh Gail et al. (Haifa: Baha’i World Centre, 1978), 104.

23. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, “5 September 1912. Talk at St. James Methodist Church,
Montreal, Canada,” Promulgation of Universal Peace, 318.

24. Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1979
[1944]), 396–397.

25. Baha’u’llah, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book (Haifa: Baha’i World Cen-
tre, 1992), 52.

26. The author is indebted to Baha’i scholar Peter Terry for compiling this list
of heads of state of the Americas, who were contemporary with Baha’u’llah
in 1872–1873. E-mail dated September 19, 2008. (Posting on the “Tarikh”
listserve.)

27. Shoghi Effendi, This Decisive Hour: Messages from Shoghi Effendi to the North
American Baha’is, 1932–1946 (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 2002),
paragraph 158.3.

28. Reported by the Baha’i historian Nabil-i-Zarandi, qtd. in Shoghi Effendi,
God Passes By, 263.

29. Shoghi Effendi, “A God-Given Mandate” (15 June 1946), Messages to America
(Wilmette, IL: Publishing Trust, 1947), 91; idem, This Decisive Hour: Mes-
sages from Shoghi Effendi to the North American Baha’is, 1932–1946, paragraph
158.3.

30. Robert Stockman, The Baha’i Faith and American Protestantism (Th.D.: Har-
vard University, 1990). Abstract.

31. Robert Stockman, “Redeemer Nation Revisited: The American Baha’i Sacred
History of America.” Chapter 7. The Baha’i Faith and American Protestantism
(Th.D.: Harvard University, 1990), 1. The present writer is grateful to Dr.
Stockman for his permission to draw from this chapter in his dissertation.
Credit goes to David Merrick, of Edinburgh, Scotland, for providing this
chapter by e-mail, with Dr. Stockman’s permission. The page numbering
used here, however, does not correspond with the completed dissertation.

32. Stockman, “Redeemer Nation Revisited,” 1, n. 1.

33. Ernest Lee Tuveson, Redeemer Nation: The Idea of America’s Millennial Role
(Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1968).

34. Deborah L. Madsen, American Exceptionalism (Edinburgh: Edinburgh Uni-
versity Press, 1998), 3.

35. Ibid., 2.

36. Ibid., 2.

37. Ibid., 165.

38. Ibid., 165.

39. Stockman, “Redeemer Nation Revisited,” 7.

40. Ibid., 17.

41. The National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of the United States is the
annually elected governing council of the American Baha’i community.

42. Stockman, “Redeemer Nation Revisited,” 17.

340 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America

43. Allan L. Ward, 239 Days: ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s Journey in America (Wilmette, IL:
Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1979), 40.

44. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, “Talk at Howard University, Washington, D.C. (23 April
1912).” Translated by Amin Banani. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Promulgation of Universal
Peace. 2nd ed. (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1982), 45–46.

45. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Promulgation of Universal Peace, 46.

46. Louis Auchincloss, Woodrow Wilson (New York: Viking Penguin, 2000);
A. Clements Kendrick, Woodrow Wilson: World Statesman (Lawrence: Uni-
versity Press of Kansas, 1987); Thomas J. Knock, To End All Wars: Woodrow
Wilson and the Quest for a New World Order (Oxford: Oxford University Press,
1992).

47. Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith. Third printing (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Pub-
lishing Trust, 1980), 36.

48. David Steigerwald, Wilsonian Idealism in America (Ithaca, NY: Cornell Uni-
versity Press, 1994).

49. Stephen Skowronek, “The Reassociation of Ideas and Purposes: Racism,
Liberalism, and the American Political Tradition.” American Political Science
Review 100 (2006): 385–401 [396].

50. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Baha (Haifa: Baha’i World
Centre, 1982), 311–312.

51. Ibid., 109.

52. Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, 88.

53. Gregory S. Butler, “Visions of a Nation Transformed: Modernity and Ideol-
ogy in Wilson’s Political Thought.” Journal of Church and State 39.1 (Winter
1997): 37–51

54. National Spiritual Assembly (NSA) of the Baha’is of the United States,
“The Destiny of America and the Promise of World Peace.” New York Times
(December 23, 2001): A29.

55. Ibid.

56. Ibid.

57. Ibid.

58. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, ‘Abdu’l-Baha on Divine Philosophy. Ed. Isabel Fraser Cham-
berlain (Boston: The Tudor Press, 1917), 85. While no Persian or Arabic
original exists to authenticate this statement recorded in English, its pur-
port is accepted.

59. Qtd. in National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of the United States, “The
Destiny of America and the Promise of World Peace” (December 23, 2001).

60. Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing
Trust, 1990 [1938]), 87–88.

61. NSA, “Destiny of America.”

62. Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith: Messages to America, 1947–1957 (Wilmette,
IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1980), 36–37.

63. Thanks to Steve Cooney of New Zealand for this suggestion. E-mail dated
July 26, 2008. (Posting on the “Tarikh” listserve.)

64. Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 256.

65. Henry H. Jessup, “The Religious Mission of the English Speaking Nations.”
The World’s Parliament of Religions: An illustrated and popular story of the world’s
first Parliament of Religions, held in Chicago in connection with the Columbian
Exposition of 1893. Vol. 2. Ed. John H. Barrows. Chicago: Parliament Pub.
Co., 1893), 1122–1126. Thanks to Reed Breneman for this reference, and

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America 341
also for pointing out that it was George A. Ford who read the paper on
Jessup’s behalf. E-mail dated July 26, 2008. (Posting on the “Tarikh” list-
serve.) See review by Eric J. Ziolkowsk, Journal of the American Academy of
Religion 64.3 (Autumn 1996): 662–664, who notes that the editor of this
collection had compared the two variant versions of Jessup’s paper to pro-
duce a definitive text (663).

66. Jessup, “The Religious Mission of the English Speaking Nations,” 1125–
1126. These subsequently celebrated words of Baha’u’llah come from
Edward G. Browne, “Introduction,” in ‘Abdu’l-Baha, A Traveler’s Narra-
tive Written to Illustrate the Episode of the Báb. Trans. Edward G. Browne, 2
vols. (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1891), 2: xxxix–xl. Robert
Stockman points out that “Jessup did not reproduce the quotation exactly
as Browne gave it.” See idem, Thornton Chase: The First American Baha’i (Wil-
mette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 2001), Chapter 11.

67. Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, 37.

68. Ibid., 126–127.

69. Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, 19.

70. Ibid., 90–91.

71. John Huddleston, “The Spiritual Destiny of America and World Peace.”
Processes of the Lesser Peace. Ed. Babak Bahador and Nazila Ghanea (Oxford:
George Ronald, 2002), 107–161.

72. Ibid., 111.

73. Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day Is Come. Rev. ed. (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i
Publishing Trust, 1980 [1941]), 123.

74. Ibid., 123.

75. Ibid., 123.

76. Ibid., 123.

77. Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, 55.

78. Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing
Trust, 1990), 89.

79. Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, 38.

80. Huddleston, “The Spiritual Destiny of America and World Peace,” 117.

81. Ibid., 132.

82. Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, 36.

83. Deborah K. van den Hoonaard and Will C. van den Hoonaard, The Equality
of Women and Men: The Experience of the Baha’i Community of Canada (Win-
nipeg, MB: Art Bookbindery, 2006).

84. Michael McMullen, “The Religious Construction of a Global Identity: An
Ethnographic Look at the Atlanta Baha’i Community.” Contemporary Ameri-
can Religion: An Ethnographic Reader. Ed. Penny Edgell Becker and Nancy
L. Eiesland (Walnut Creek, London, New Delhi: Altamira Press, 1997),
236–237 and 227.

85. Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baha’u’llah (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publish-
ing Trust, 1991 [1936]), 203–204 (formatting added).

86. Century of Light. Prepared under the direction of the Universal House of
Justice (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 2001 [2003 printing]), 138.

87. Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, 34.

88. National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of the United States, “The Des-
tiny of America and the Promise of World Peace.” New York Times (December
23, 2001): A29.

342 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America

89. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, “Prayer for America.” Baha’i Prayers: A Selection of Prayers
Revealed by Baha’u’llah, the Báb, and ‘Abdu’l-Baha (Wilmette, IL: US Baha’i
Publishing Trust, 1991), 25.

90. Alain Locke, “America’s Part in World Peace” (1925). Qtd. in Christo-
pher Buck, Alain Locke: Faith and Philosophy (Los Angeles: Kalimát Press,
2005), 241 (emphasis added). Under the auspices of the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Baha’is of the United States, World Order magazine has
published two special issues on Alain Locke. See Christopher Buck, “Alain
Locke: Race Leader, Social Philosopher, Baha’i Pluralist.” Special Issue:
Alain Locke: Dean of the Harlem Renaissance and Baha’i Race-Amity Leader. World
Order 36.3 (2005): 7–36; Alain Locke, “Alain Locke in His Own Words:
Three Essays” (“The Gospel for the Twentieth Century” [39–42]; “Peace
Between Black and White in the United States” [42–45]; “Five Phases of
Democracy” [45–48]; Alain Locke, “The Moon Maiden” [37]) World Order
36.3 (2005): 37–48 (previously unpublished essays, introduced by Chris-
topher Buck and co-edited with World Order editor Dr. Betty J. Fisher); and
(2) Christopher Buck and Betty J. Fisher, ed. and intro., “Alain Locke: Four
Talks Redefining Democracy, Education, and World Citizenship.” World
Order 38.3 (2006/2007): 21–41. (Alain Locke, “The Preservation of the
American Ideal”; “Stretching Our Social Mind”; “On Becoming World Citi-
zens”; “Creative Democracy.”)

91. Shoghi Effendi, “The Challenging Requirements of the Present Hour”
(June 5, 1947), Citadel of Faith: Messages to America, 1947–1957 (Wilmette,
IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1980 [1965]), 4–39 [35–36].

92. Robert Stockman, ‘Abdu’l-Baha in America (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing
Trust, 2012).

93. Christopher Buck, “‘Abdu’l-Baha’s 1912 Howard University Speech: A Civil
War Myth for Interracial Emancipation.” ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s Journey West: The Course
of Human Solidarity. Ed. Negar Mottahedeh. New York: Palgrave Macmillan,
2013. Pp. 111–144. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1057/9781137032010.0009.
(Accessed November 10, 2014.)

94. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, qtd. in Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baha’u’llah,
76–77.

95. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Promulgation of Universal Peace, 36.

96. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Promulgation of Universal Peace, 19–20.

97. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Promulgation of Universal Peace, 103.

98. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Promulgation of Universal Peace, 104.

99. Editor’s note, Promulgation of Universal Peace, 104.
100. Cleveland Medical and Surgical Reporter 17.12 (December 1909): 522.
101. Letter dated June 15, 2000 to an individual, qtd. in a letter by the Universal
House of Justice, dated August 20, 2014, to the present writer. By contrast,
so-called “pilgrim’s notes” (i.e. statements of ‘Abdu’l-Baha—or, later, of
Shoghi Effendi—reported by Baha’is while on pilgrimage to the Holy Land)
can never be authenticated in the absence of an original text.
102. Shoghi Effendi, letter, dated October 24, 1947, to a National Spiritual
Assembly. Qtd. in a Memorandum, dated June 5, 2006, by the Research
Department, to the Universal House of Justice, Baha’i World Centre.
See http://bahai-library.com/uhj_authenticity_refresh_spirit. (Accessed
November 1, 2014.)

Baha’i Myths and Visions of America
103. Alain Locke, “America’s Part in World Peace” (1925). Qtd. in Buck, Alain
Locke: Faith and Philosophy, 241.
104. Christopher Buck, “Laying a Great Man to Rest—the Final Interment of
Alain Locke,” BahaiTeachings.org (October 7, 2014); idem, “Sing the Bal-
lad of Alain Locke—Burying the Black Plato,” BahaiTeachings.org (October
10, 2014). See httpbahaiteachings.orglaying-a-great-man-to-rest-Ànal-
interment-of-alain-locke and http://bahaiteachings.org/sing-the-ballad-of-
alain-locke-burying-the-black-plato. (Accessed November 10, 2014.)
105. Alain Locke, “Locke Holds Smashing of Humanity’s Barriers Civilization’s
Present Need: Howard University Professor Views Elimination of Bars
Between Races, Sexes and Nations as Necessity for Progress.” The New York
Amsterdam News (March 26, 1930): 11.
106. Christopher Buck, “50 Baha’i Principles of Unity: From Individual to
International Relations.” BahaiTeachings.org. See http://bahaiteachings.
org/50-bahai-principles-of-unity-from-individual-to-international-rela-
tions. (Accessed November 1, 2014.) See also Buck, “Fifty Baha’i Principles
of Unity: A Paradigm of Social Salvation.” Baha’i Studies Review 18 (2012).
(Published in 2015.) This paper was presented at Princeton University on
February 21, 2014. See Buck, “Princeton University: ‘Fifty Baha’i Principles
of Unity.’” See http://bahaiteachings.org/princeton-university-Àfty-bahai-
principles-of-unity. (Accessed November 1, 2014.)
107. Shoghi EŲendi, “American Baha’is in the Time of World Peril” (-uly 28,
1954), Citadel of Faith, 122–132 [126–127].
108. Shoghi EŲendi, “The Challenging ReTuirements of the Present Hour,” Cit-
adel of Faith, 37–38.
109. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, “A Prayer for the conÀrmation of the American Government.”
Authorized translation released by The Universal House of -ustice. Qtd.
in Christopher Buck, “A Baha’i Prayer for the United States Government,”
BahaiTeachings.org (August 24, 2017), http://bahaiteachings.org/bahai-
prayer-united-states-government. Accessed August 27, 2017.
110. Original Arabic text (MuntakhaEĳtň a] MakĳtňE-i-ʣaʌrat-i-ɻAEduɼl-Bahĳ 2:313)
online: http://reference.bahai.org/fa/t/ab/MA2/ma2-313.html.
111. Shoghi EŲendi, Messages to America (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust,
1947), 91. (Emphasis added.)
112. Baha’u’llah, “Tablet of the World,” Tablets of Baha’u’llah, 89.
113. Universal House of -ustice, “The Promise of World Peace” (Haifa: Baha’i
World Centre, October 1985).
114. Baha’i International Community, “Contributing to an Ever-Advancing
Civilization: The Baha’i International Community and the United Nations”
(May 22, 2014). Third Nishan Forum on World Civilizations, Shandong Uni-
versity, -inan, China. See https://www.bic.org/statements/Contributing-
Ever-Advancing-Civilization-Bahai-International-Community- and-United-
Nations. (Accessed November 16, 2014.)
115. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, “6 May 1912, Talk at Euclid Hall, Cleveland, Ohio.” See Prom-
ulgation of Universal Peace, 103. (Quotes added.) However, as previously
stated, this latter version has the word “democracy” instead of “people” at
the end of the sentence.
116. Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of Phoenix, Arizona, “Spiritual Assembly
of the Baha’is of Phoenix, Arizona,” 30th Annual Grand Canyon Baha’i Confer-
ence (December 26, 2014): 3–4 [3].

Figure 13.2. “Rev. Martin Luther King,” the Library of Congress caption reads,
“head-and-shoulders portrait, seated, facing front, hands extended upward, during
a press conference.” In his Nobel Peace Prize Lecture on December 11, 1964, Dr.
King famously said:
This is the great new problem of mankind. We have inherited a big house, a great “world
house” in which we have to live together—black and white, Easterners and Western-
ers, Gentiles and Jews, Catholics and Protestants, Moslem and Hindu, a family unduly
separated in ideas, culture, and interests who, because we can never again live without
each other, must learn, somehow, in this one big world, to live with each other.
(For full text and audio of this historic speech, see http://www.nobelprize.org/
nobel_prizes/peace/laureates/1964/king-lecture.html. Photo by Dick DeMarsico,
November 6, 1964. (Public domain. Library of Congress. See http://hdl.loc.gov/loc.
pnp/cph.3c22996. Accessed January 12, 2015.)

Chapter 13
Conclusion: How Minority
Faiths Redefined America’s
World Role
Religious institutions play only a modest, indirect role in the development
and implementation of foreign policy. But as moral teachers and the bear-
ers of ethical traditions, religious communities can help to structure debate
and illuminate relevant moral norms. They can help to develop and sustain
political morality by promoting moral reasoning and by exemplifying val-
ues and behaviors that are conducive to human dignity.
—Mark R. Amstutz (2001)1
The very notion that America has a world role has its roots in American
exceptionalism.
Journalist Michael Barone captured the logic of U.S. exceptionalism when
he opened his article in the U.S. News and World Report’s June 2004 special
issue, Defining America: Why the U.S. Is Unique, with this oft-quoted line:
“Every nation is unique, but America is the most unique.”2 Throughout
American history and in recent world affairs, American exceptionalism—
“the perception that the United States differs qualitatively from other
developed nations, because of its unique origins, national credo, historical
evolution, and distinctive political and religious institutions”3—has been
a powerful myth indeed. It has functioned as a national creed. How that
myth arose in the first place has much to do with the religious origins of
America, beginning with the Puritans. How the myth of American excep-
tionalism has been defined—and will continue to be redefined—must also
include the role of religious influences on competing social myths of Ameri-
can nationalism and nationhood. Not until the twentieth century, however,
was the myth of American exceptionalism sufficient to define a world role
for America beyond exemplarism and “democracy promotion.”

346 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
It was President Woodrow Wilson—awarded the Nobel Peace Prize
in 1919—who is almost universally recognized as having first defined
America’s world role geopolitically. “Woodrow Wilson . . . can be cred-
ited with having been the first to transform American exceptionalism
into a universal public good,” writes Edward Kolodziej, “to be enjoyed
by all peoples as an outright gift of the American public and to har-
ness American military and economic power to these global objectives
of American-dictated world order.”4 On January 8, 1918, before a joint
session of Congress, President Wilson formulated his celebrated “Four-
teen Points” for a post–World War I settlement and the establishment of
a stable world order. The fourteenth point of Wilson’s visionary proposal
called for the formation of a League of Nations: “A general association
of nations must be formed under specific covenants for the purpose of
affording mutual guarantees of political independence and territorial
integrity to great and small states alike.”5 In 1919, however, Congress
refused to ratify the Treaty of Versailles, despite an impassioned plea by
President Wilson who invoked “the hand of God” at work in the creation
of a League of Nations:
It is thus that a new role and a new responsibility have come to this great
Nation that we honor and which we would all wish to lift to yet higher
levels of service and achievement. The stage is set, the destiny disclosed.
It has come about by no plan of our conceiving, but by the hand of God,
who led us into this way. It was of this that we dreamed at our birth.
America shall in truth show the way. The light streams upon the path
ahead, and nowhere else.6
Of the Treaty’s 440 articles, the first 26 set forth the Covenant of the
League of Nations. Wilson’s plea for the United States to join the League of
Nations, however, simply could not overcome the isolationism and narrow-
ing nationalism of his day. Although Wilsonian internationalism has been
seen as essentially nationalist by at least one major Wilson biographer,7
President Wilson was arguably ahead of his time. In 1919, there was little
by way of religious consensus in support of Wilson’s personal vision. Later
in the twentieth century, however, religious influence in favor of America’s
world role began to be felt.
As the twentieth century progressed, there was increasing receptiv-
ity to the idea that America ought to play a greater role in international
affairs—indeed, that America was destined for it, as the global spread of
fundamental American values could be instrumental in shaping an emerg-
ing world order. In this sense, American internationalism could be thought
of as American exceptionalism universalized. The time was right. Indeed, the
twentieth century was famously described as the “American Century” in
1941 by Time magazine publisher Henry Luce, who wrote:

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 347
AMERICA’S VISION OF OUR WORLD
What can we say and foresee about an American Century? . . . [W]hat
internationalism have we Americans to offer? . . . It must be a sharing
with all peoples of our Bill of Rights, our Declaration of Independence,
our Constitution, our magnificent industrial products, our technical
skills. It must be an internationalism of the people, by the people and for
the people.8
There is no religious rhetoric here. But the vision of America’s world role is
expressed with religious conviction.
While religious influences have not had a direct impact on U.S. foreign
policy subsequent to the doctrine of Manifest Destiny,9 religious perspec-
tives have played a part in what Donald White calls “consensus beliefs”
and the American “consensus perception of world affairs.” White notes the
transformative power of a public sense of American national identity: “The
origin of the American role in the world was dependent not only on material
elements but also on intangibles.”10 White credits the emergence of a belief in
America’s world role to the power of public consensus: “The United States
began its world role because of a consensus in the society over internation-
alism.”11 White further explains:
The emergence of the world role of the United States in the twentieth
century depended on the will of the people. The conversion to an inter-
national outlook among the leaders of government and society became
accepted by the mass of people of different occupations, home towns,
political parties, religions, ethnic groups, and races, who, though divided
by their separate interests, adopted unifying concepts to bring them together
in a collective worldview.12
What about the twenty-first century? Can minority faiths collectively
provide intangible yet persuasive “consensus beliefs” regarding America’s
world role? To address this question, a review of the dynamics of religious
visions—favored truths animated by the power of religious myths—is
instructive. Religious myths and visions of America are essentially unify-
ing concepts among the adherents of their respective faith-communities. As
such, one can say that the essence of this book can be summed up in three
words: Religions remythologize America. This summation would be more com-
plete with these three additional words: Religions re-envision America. Put
together, this book demonstrates that religions remythologize and re-envision
America.
Here, the way in which religions remythologize and re-envision America
requires further explanation. First, the reader will recall that “America” is a
figment of the nationalistic imagination in that America is, at once, nation
and notion, country and creed, entity and ideology. Thus the “idea of America,”

348 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
when religiously inspired, can give rise to a progressive religious national-
ism that enriches American civil religion. To oversimplify, this is Puritanism
pluralized.
However, all is not so bright and rosy in the mythic realm, insofar as
America is concerned. Because of this historical and long-standing racial
injustice, there are starkly pejorative visions of America as well. In the
Nation of Islam, for instance, religious myths and visions of America are
dark and foreboding, even catastrophic in outlook. Elijah Muhammad’s and
Louis Farrakhan’s visions of the destruction of America—in an apocalyptic
attack by the “Mother Wheel”—are menacing and chilling, not so much for
their content as in the fact that people actually believe in the reality of these
myths. Surprisingly, these scenarios have taken grip of the minds of not a
few Black Muslims, who honestly believe these myths. (The present writer
has personally met such individuals in Decatur and Springfield, Illinois,
from 1997 to 2000.) In other words, these myths have imaginative reality.
As a “true lie,” the Mother Wheel myth may be understood and appreci-
ated as a clarion call for America to make a renewed effort to promote racial
justice and reconciliation in order to avert the further decay of American
society.
This process of remythologizing is in evidence when racial and ethnic
notions are brought into play. This study has shown that myths and visions
of America can have a decidedly ethnic and racially referenced dimension.
For instance, in Chapter 3, American exceptionalism was shown to have
largely been the product of Anglo-Saxon ethnogenesis.13 In other words, the
greatness of America, expressed universally—under its nineteenth-century
Protestant formulation—was a coded expression of Anglo-Saxon hubris,
which, by virtue of the vaunted superiority of the White race, was decid-
edly exclusive. This overweening ethnonationalism represented a nativist
expression of the dominant ethnicity.14 This should come as no surprise
really, for it is quite natural (although, by today’s standards, not desirable)
when one considers the relationship between ethnicities and nations, as
Eric Kaufmann observes: “The nations of the world, almost without excep-
tion, were formed from ethnic cores, whose pre-modern myth–symbol
complex furnished the material for the construction of the modern nation’s
boundary symbols and civil religion.”15 If nations—or, more precisely,
nationalisms—were originally ethnic constructions, then it stands to reason
that the reconstruction of nationalisms can be a function of subsequent mul-
tiethnic social realities.
From a certain perspective, racism in America can be seen as a historical
consequence of privileging the Anglo-Saxon or White race as divinely des-
tined to prosecute the Protestant mission to colonize, civilize, and Christianize
the entire continent of North America, under the imperialist doctrine of
Manifest Destiny. While Manifest Destiny was, at one time, the prevailing
vision of America as far as domestic and foreign policy was concerned, Man-
ifest Destiny has since been discredited and is of historical interest only.

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 349
The subsequent history of the religious idea of America, therefore, can
be analyzed, in part, as an evolution—protracted and painful—in the idea
of the place of race and ethnicity in American life, as religiously valued. The
evolution of American thought, with respect to the idea of America itself,
is roughly a progression from religious—and often racial—particular-
ism to universal inclusivism. That is to say, the religious idea of America
represents a transformation of Protestant ethnoreligious homogeneity to
multiethnic and multireligious plurality, reflecting a direct, albeit delayed
and long-overdue, response to America’s changing demography and reli-
gious landscape. Religious myths of America—true to changed historical
circumstances and social dynamics—eventually give way to new myths and
visions of America. The process of remythologizing therefore reflects prog-
ress in the social evolution of America.
This social evolution, in terms of the broadening mind-set it direction-
ally represents, remains as incomplete as it is perhaps inevitable. To the
extent that America succeeds, in time, in overcoming racial limitations will
America’s world role become a morally authentic enterprise. In that world
microcosm and social laboratory known as “America,” such a transforma-
tion of the American ideal is arguably a major consequence of the influence
of minority faiths. The end result is the deconstruction of the Puritan and
Anglo-Saxon sense of divine election, but without devaluing the essential
mission of America to become a “City upon a Hill”—that is, as an exem-
plary society that may serve as a social model for other societies to emulate.
Religions remythologize America to the degree that the old myths are
rendered obsolete when new myths of America take their place. Generally
speaking, one can say that, over time, religious myths and visions of Amer-
ica are largely products of their respective times and places. Within a given
religious tradition, there will be change over time, in what Americanists
regard as the evolution of American thought. These new myths, therefore,
conform to new modes of thinking and valuation as a function of the evolu-
tion of American thought.
Religious Myths and Visions of America Recapitulated
If lessons are to be drawn from American history and thought, then what
significance, it may be asked, do religious myths and visions of America
have for Americans today? Recall that historian James Moorhead had sug-
gested that the Protestant myth of America—America’s master myth—has
been reshaped by minority faiths: “But the point is that minority faiths
themselves played no small part in the weakening of white Protestant
hegemony. Their creativity in adapting and reinterpreting the symbols of
American destiny broadened the framework of discourse within which
citizens explained national identity.”16 Within this wider framework of dis-
course, new religious voices are heard and fresh perspectives are gained.

350 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
In one sense, the wider framework of discourse of which Moorhead speaks
implicates the end result: a universalizing of America’s founding principles
of equality and egalitarianism, as applied to all of America’s constituents.
Of primary interest in this book has been America’s “world role.” By
“world role,” as previously stated, is simply meant the part that America
should play in world affairs. It is time to bring America’s world role, from the
perspective of minority faiths, into sharper focus, and, perhaps, to take the
“latest and greatest” expressions of those perspectives as exemplary. As
the times change, so do religions. Therefore, this concluding chapter will
recapitulate the more recent visions of America’s world role, as respectively
held by the minority faiths treated in the preceding pages, with reference
also to contemporary Protestant visions of America.
Native American Myths and Visions of America
The original myths and visions of America were from Native Americans
themselves, as exemplified by the Iroquois version of the Turtle Island Myth
and by the pan-Indian Myth of “Mother Earth.” Thus it is clear that religious
myths and visions of America have existed ever since the colonial period
and, in the case of the Iroquois myth of “Turtle Island,” in the precontact
period as well. The pan-Native American myth of Mother Earth, in fact, is
a somewhat later development, and there is a very real sense in which the
Mother Earth myth actually remythologizes the Turtle Island myth by trans-
forming it from a nature-referenced narrative into a more environmentally
value-laden perspective. Both myths are nature-based, to be sure, but the
Mother Earth myth is more ecologically conscious because it was promoted
and popularized as such in the course of its development.
As we are now in the “age of ecology,” the “Turtle Island” myth itself
is currently one of the great cultural symbols of nature-conscious envi-
ronmentalism, as is the myth of “Mother Earth.” These symbols have
been absorbed by American popular culture quite apart from the original
Native American context. Both “Turtle Island” and “Mother Earth” are
ways of sacralizing (making sacred) the physical environment, or promot-
ing a nature-inclusive spirituality. Because these nature myths have been
so successfully and ubiquitously popularized, they now play a concep-
tual and symbolic role in “greening” other religions in order to promote
respect for the environment and inculcate environmentally benefi-
cent behaviors among their adherents. This process has been called the
“greening-of-religions phenomenon”17 and the infusing of “environmental
ethics” into traditional religious worldviews.18 As one illustrative example
of the renewed cross-cultural identification of “Turtle Island” with North
America, consider poet Gary Snyder’s reworking of the America’s “Pledge
of Allegiance”:

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 351
I pledge allegiance to the soil of Turtle Island, and to the beings who
thereon dwell one ecosystem in diversity under the sun With joyful inter-
penetration for all.19
In 1975, Snyder’s 1974 collection of poems, Turtle Island, won the Pulit-
zer Prize for Poetry in 1975. The assimilation of the myth (or at least the
concept) of Turtle Island (as well as Mother Earth) is a testament to the
revitalization and contemporary relevance of a Native American religious
myth. Extrapolating from this myth, one can say that, from a Native Ameri-
can religious perspective, America’s world role is to promote environmental
ethics and ecological sustainability.
The Iroquois Confederacy is generally acknowledged as the first New
World democracy. Given this priority in time, the Iroquois myth (or,
because of its acknowledged historicity, the “legend”) of Deganawida may
have had some influence on the shaping of the American republic, although
this remains controversial, as the Iroquois Influence Thesis continues to be
debated. Is it myth or history? The answers, either way, continue to be hotly
contested. Notwithstanding, the reader will recall that, on October 4, 1988,
the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.Con.Res. 331—A concurrent
resolution to acknowledge the contribution of the Iroquois Confederacy of Nations
to the development of the United States Constitution and to reaffirm the continuing
government-to-government relationship between Indian tribes and the United States
established in the Constitution—by a vote of 408–8. By voice vote, the Senate
agreed to H.Con.Res. 331 on October 21, 1988. That Congressional resolu-
tion reads, in part:
Whereas the original framers of the Constitution, including, most nota-
bly, George Washington and Benjamin Franklin, are known to have greatly
admired the concepts of the six Nations of the Iroquois Confederacy;
Whereas, the Confederation of the original Thirteen Colonies into one
republic was influenced by the political system developed by the Iroquois
Confederacy as were many of the democratic principles which were incor-
porated into the Constitution itself; . . . Resolved by the House of Representatives
(the Senate concurring), That—(1) the Congress, on the occasion of the two
hundredth anniversary of the signing of the United States Constitution,
acknowledges contribution made by the Iroquois Confederacy and other
Indian Nations to the formation and development of the United States.20
The reader will also recall that, in 2007, U.S. Representative Joe Baca
and U.S. Senator Daniel Inouye, respectively, introduced H.R. 3585 and S.
1852 to the House and Senate, to wit: Native American Heritage Day Act
of 2007, “A bill to designate the Friday after Thanksgiving of each year as
‘Native American Heritage Day’ in honor of the achievements and contribu-
tions of Native Americans to the United States.” This proposed legislation,

352 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
in its current draft, acknowledges the contribution of the Iroquois League
of Nations. This draft resolution reads, in part: “Congress finds that . . . the
Founding Fathers based the provisions of the Constitution on the unique
system of democracy of the six Nations of the Iroquois Confederacy, which
divided powers among the branches of government and provided for a
system of checks and balances.”21 Here, it can definitely be said that “the
mystique of Iroquois unity and power had taken on a life of its own.”22
That the Iroquois influence myth has indeed taken on a life of its own,
as the Congressional resolution clearly illustrates, is noted by one scholar
so: “Despite the highly speculative nature of the evidence, this misconcep-
tion has become a shibboleth, one which has been given even the official
imprimatur of the United States Senate (United States Congress, Senate
Resolution No. 76 [Washington, D.C.: U.S.G.P.O., 1988]).”23 From this, it
can be extrapolated that the Iroquois vision of America is the promotion of
the democratic way of life worldwide, in the interests of peace.
Protestant Myths and Visions of America
Today, there are largely liberal expressions of Protestant Christianity that
seek to apply Christian principles to the social problems of the day. The idea
that Protestant ethics, as it were, can be usefully implemented to improve
social conditions can certainly be traced back to the Puritan origins of pres-
ent-day America. As presented in Chapter 3, the Puritans established what
has come to be regarded as the foundational myth of America. Their vision
generated the greater—and perhaps grander—Protestant master myth of
America: “The Puritans provided the scriptural basis for what we have come
to call the myth of America.”24 Mimicking the style of the prologue of the
Gospel of John, the famed Americanist Sacvan Bercovitch characterizes the
Puritan myth of America so: “In the beginning was the word, ‘America,’ and the
word was in the Bible, and the word was made flesh in the Americans, this new breed
of humans, destined to build a shining city upon a hill.”25 Here, Bercovitch’s refer-
ence to “City upon a Hill” alludes to the first definitive Puritan discourse on
America, “A Modell of Christian Charity” (1630), which is John Winthrop’s
speech to his fellow Puritans aboard the Arbella, on its voyage across the
Atlantic to the Massachusetts coast. This homily was destined to become
one of the most powerful, pervasive, and persistent visions of America—the
doctrine of American exceptionalism.
Generally, American exceptionalism sees America as a favored nation
with a world mission. The Puritans were the first exponents of American
exceptionalism. This Puritan myth has five key ideographs: liberty, egalitari-
anism, individualism, populism, and laissez-faire.26 These are civic American
values. There are also religious American values, as expressed in ideographs
that represent myths. Perhaps the best example of this is John Winthrop’s
celebrated ideograph: “Wee shall be as a Citty upon a Hill, the Eies of all

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 353
people are uppon us.”27 His biblically literate audience would instantly grasp
the allusion to this venerable metaphor in Christ’s “Sermon on the Mount”:
“Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid.”
(Matthew 5:14, KJV.) Thus, in 1630, the Puritans constructed a national
identity out of their own sense of uniqueness—that is, the Puritans aspired
to establish a model society that would serve as a moral exemplar for the
world to emulate. Thus, with respect to the Puritan Myth of America, it can
be inferred that America’s “world role” (although not expressed in those
terms), was to be an exemplar society for all the world to behold, admire,
and emulate. Technically, Winthrop’s vision was not of America as a nation
(since the United States of America would not be established until the Dec-
laration of Independence on July 4, 1776), as Godfrey Hodgson is careful
to point out: “Most historians would agree that there was no distinctively
American consciousness for at least a century after Winthrop’s sermon.
Winthrop could not therefore have anticipated that the United States would
be as a City upon a Hill.”28
For the vanquished, at least, the “Manifest Destiny” Myth was a perver-
sion of the Puritan Myth of America. While some may say that Manifest
Destiny is now disguised as hegemonic interests by the world’s only super-
power, it has long since been discredited. And while the legacy of “Jim
Crow” racism persists in socially subtler forms, the “Curse of Ham” Myth
has fallen by the wayside as a discarded myth as well. America’s social sea
change from Protestantism to pluralism and from racialism to interracial-
ism, although demographically uneven and institutionally incomplete, was
greatly catalyzed by the civil rights movement, which had social implica-
tions not only for America but also for the world. The social significance of
the civil rights movement for the world at large was best articulated by Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr. in his prophetic vision of “The World House”:
This is the great new problem of mankind. We have inherited a large
house, a great “world house” in which we have to live together—black
and white, Easterner and Westerner, Gentile and Jew, Catholic and Protes-
tant, Moslem and Hindu—a family unduly separated in ideas, culture and
interest, who, because we can never again live apart, must learn somehow
to live with each other in peace. . . . The large house in which we live
demands that we transform this world-wide neighborhood into a world-
wide brotherhood.29
While Dr. King’s promotion of a “world-wide brotherhood” within the
“World House” is not representative, much less central, to Protestantism
in America generally, it remains as arguably the most prophetic Protes-
tant vision of America. Complementing this world-encompassing vision is
America’s mission at home: “King believed that the mission of American
Protestantism was not merely to make Christians of all Americans, but to
Christianize America.”30 Perhaps this reading of King is too narrow, in that

354 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
King’s metaphor of the “World House” is a panoramic vision of interfaith
ecumenism.
One of the latest reformulations of Puritan providentialism is Stephen H.
Webb’s 2004 book, American Providence: A Nation with a Mission.31 American
Providence is arguably the finest “theology of America” published in recent
years. Webb, professor of religion and philosophy at Wabash College, argues
that all of history—and the history of each and every nation—should be
interpreted providentially. Regarding America itself, Webb holds that God
has chosen America, above and beyond all other nations, for a special mis-
sion: to complete the Great Commission (spread of the message of Christ
throughout the world) by promoting political freedom (that is, the freedom
of religion whereby people can freely become Christians) and evangelical
Christianity. It is not America per se that is intrinsically significant, but its
capacity to incarnate Christian virtues within a social order: “The signifi-
cance of America has to do with what it believes in, not what it is. America
is the dream that faith and freedom can be mutually reinforcing within a
given social order.”32 Although America has a providential mission and des-
tiny, it is Webb’s conviction that Christianity has an even greater destiny in
that it will emerge as the world religion of the future: “The destiny of Chris-
tianity, however, is much greater than the destiny of America. . . . Christians
believe only one globalism will triumph in the end—and that it will be a
globalism of the one true God.”33
The Christian Right’s Myths and Visions of America
From a certain perspective, the rise of the Christian Right may be regarded
as a response to modernity. Christian conservatism and “secular human-
ism” are at polar opposites. In this sense, the Christian Right is reactionary.
Put another way, the Christian Right may be seen as a “counter-cultural
movement” in its vocal opposition to abortion on demand, gay rights,
homosexuality, feminism, secular humanism, liberalism, and big govern-
ment.34 According to Richard Kyle, the Christian Right has “has simply
Americanized the Christian faith.”35 The converse holds true as well.
“You name it, they have Christianized it,” Kyle hastens to add, citing, as
examples, “America’s heritage, democracy, market economy, foreign policy,
military involvement, and great wealth.”36 In seeing America’s political
and economic systems as divinely inspired, “evangelicanism has Christian-
ized secular society,”37 although contemporary America still has a secular
core. As such, America’s Christian veneer is a thin one, a kind of theologi-
cal gilding. In a word, the Christian Right has Americanized Christianity
and Christianized America. The latter is seen in the myth of America as a
“City upon a Hill” and as a “Christian nation.” The Christian Right’s vision
of America, quite simply, is to promote Christian values consistent with
America as a Christian country.

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 355
Catholic Myths and Visions of America
Although the Americanist Myth of America was put to an abrupt end by
Pope Leo XIII, its legacy continues—not as infallible Catholic doctrine pro-
mulgated ex cathedra—but as edifying papal dicta. Recall that, on April 17,
2008, Pope Benedict XVI said to America:
Today, in classrooms throughout the country, young Christians, Jews,
Muslims, Hindus, Buddhists, and indeed children of all religions sit side-
by-side, learning with one another and from one another. This diversity
gives rise to new challenges that spark a deeper reflection on the core
principles of a democratic society. May others take heart from your expe-
rience, realizing that a united society can indeed arise from a plurality of
peoples—“E pluribus unum”: “out of many, one”—provided that all recog-
nize religious liberty as a basic civil right.38
Here, Pope Benedict XVI has charged America with the task of promoting
“religious liberty as a basic civil right,” in the hope that other nations will be
inspired by the American model and establish freedom of religion in their
own respective societies.
The reader will also recall how, on January 27, 2004, Pope John Paul II
received Vice President Dick Cheney, who represented President George W.
Bush, and said to him:
Mr. Vice President, . . . I encourage you and your fellow-citizens to work,
at home and abroad, for the growth of international cooperation and solidarity
in the service of that peace which is the deepest aspiration of all men and women.
Upon you and all the American people I cordially invoke the abundant
blessings of Almighty God.39
No more explicit mandate could be given to America. In a word, America’s
world role is to promote Catholic values and principles of social justice, at
home and abroad.
Jewish Myths and Visions of America
One of the significant findings of this book is that American Judaism, gen-
erally speaking, has fully embraced American values. What Jonathan Sarna
calls the “cult of synthesis” might be more positively characterized as a
“grand synthesis” of American Judaism and Americanism. Having reviewed
the Jewish myth of America as “The Promised Land” and the Jewish “Myth
of Columbus” as well, the reader will appreciate how Orthodox, Conser-
vative, Reform, and Reconstructionist Judaism’s respective myths and
visions of America express elements of “Jewish Americanism” as part of a

356 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
social phenomenon that Jonathan Sarna calls the “Cult of Synthesis.”40 In
a very real and practical sense, Jewish Americanism functioned as an ideal
survival strategy. Adoption of American values and the enjoyment of pro-
tection under the American system of fundamental rights and civil liberties
had its advantages, not only for American Judaism at large, but for distinct
communities within American Judaism. The American tradition of religious
freedom operates to safeguard religious pluralism within American Judaism
itself.
Take Reform Judaism, for instance. Founded in 1889, the Central Con-
ference of American Rabbis (CCAR) is the organized rabbinate (body of
rabbis) for Reform Jews in America. In a December 1988 responsa, the CCAR
declared: “We must now deal with this new state of affairs and support
unity and pluralism.”41 While this is in reference to the divisions within
Judaism itself, the principle doubtless generalizes to society as a whole.
The reader will recall that the term, “cultural pluralism”—which, of course,
adumbrates religious pluralism—was coined by Jewish philosopher Horace
Kallen, in conversation with Alain Locke (first African American Rhodes
Scholar, “Dean of the Harlem Renaissance,” and “Baha’i philosopher”) at
Oxford University in 1907. Pluralism maintains the continued viability of
Orthodox, Conservative, Reform, and Reconstructionist Judaism within
America, and has been offered as a model for the State of Israel to emulate.
As for America’s world role, this is perhaps best expressed in the Jewish
prayer for America, composed by Louis Ginzberg:
May this land, under your providence, be an influence for good through-
out the world, uniting all people in peace and freedom—helping them to
fulfill the vision of your prophet: “Nation shall not lift up sword against
nation, neither shall they experience war any more” (Isaiah 2:4). And let
us say: Amen.42
Here is a call for America and its people to promote “peace and freedom”
throughout the world, in order to make Isaiah’s future vision a present
reality.
Mormon Myths and Visions of America
Of the minority faiths treated in this book, Mormonism arguably has the
richest array of America-centered myths. Chapter 6 treated the Mormon
Garden of Eden Myth, the Lost Tribes Myth, the Columbus Myth, the Con-
stitution Myth, the Founding Fathers Myth, the Theodemocracy Myth, the
America as Zion Myth, and the Mark of Cain Myth. The Garden of Eden
was not in the Euphrates Valley of the Old World, but rather in the Missis-
sippi Valley of the New World. From prehistory to modern history, Mormon
scriptures present an exalted vision of America. “And for this purpose have

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 357
I established the Constitution of this land,” states the Book of Mormon,
“by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose,”43
in reference to America’s Founding Fathers. This short prayer for America
is scriptural: “Have mercy, O Lord, upon all the nations of the earth; have
mercy upon the rulers of our land; may those principles, which were so
honorably and nobly defended, namely, the Constitution of our land, by our
fathers, be established forever.”44 Of these, the Theodemocracy Myth is the
one most directly concerned with good governance. Taken together, these
Mormon myths synthesize and mythologize distinctively American values,
within a complex of equally distinctive Mormon values. These myths are
not relics; they are alive and well. The Mark of Cain Myth, however, has
been abandoned, although not officially repudiated.
America remains an exalted place, a chosen nation, in the Mormon world-
view. As “the land of promise,”45 America has been “lifted up by the power
of God above all other nations, upon the face of the land which is choice
above all other lands.”46 Indeed, Brigham Young envisioned America’s place
in the future golden age to come: “When the day comes in which the King-
dom of God will bear rule, the flag of the United States will proudly flutter
unsullied on the flagstaff of liberty and equal rights, without a spot to sully
its fair surface.”47 This, generally, may be seen as America’s world role, in
Brigham Young’s conception of it, to promote “liberty and equal rights.”
Christian Identity Myths and Visions of America
The Christian Identity movement is the name attached to what may be
described as White nationalism’s collective theology, as promoted by a
loosely organized network of white supremacist groups whose presence
is primarily maintained in cyberspace on various Internet sites. In Chap-
ter 7, the Two-Seed Myth, the Mud Races Myth, the Lost Tribes Myth, the
White Homeland Myth, and the Racial Holy War Myth were presented.
In “The Role of Religion in the Collective Identity of the White Racialist
Movement,” Iowa State University sociologist Betty A. Dobratz observes
that, because the White supremacist movement actually has three com-
peting religions—Christian Identity, the World Church of the Creator
(anti-Christian), and neo-pagan Odinism—there is no definitive religious
expression of that movement. “Religion could be a crucial ingredient in
a group’s identity when the group shares a distinctive religion,” Dobratz
writes. “However, in this movement, various religious beliefs are compet-
ing, and no one common belief has emerged.”48 In other words, Christian
Identity myths, while distinctive, are not necessarily definitive. To the
extent that the Christian Identity movement can be said to have a unified
vision of America, it follows that America’s “world role,” if any, is to pre-
serve the purity of the White race and to establish a Whites-only homeland.
In its failure to dissociate Whiteness from Christianity, Christian Identity

358 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
represents the extreme of religio-racial mythologizing, in the very antith-
esis of Christian universalism.
Black Muslim Myths and Visions of America
Like the Mark of Cain Myth in Mormonism, the Yacub Myth, the Mother
Wheel Myth, and the Destruction of America Myth have largely been aban-
doned, although not repudiated. The Nation of Islam, predicated on Black
nationalism, formerly entailed what is fair to characterize as “religious rac-
ism.” But times are changing, and, over the course of the past three and a
half decades, Louis Farrakhan has changed considerably himself.
In his 1993 chapter, “A Vision for America,” Louis Farrakhan proclaimed
that America, although not the land of promise for African Americans, had
the potential to become so: “The Kingdom of God is an egalitarian king-
dom structured on truth, where each of us will be treated with fairness and
justice. America could become the basis for the Kingdom of God.”49 Amer-
ica, although a professedly Christian country, has “missed the message
of Christ, or has yet to receive His true message.”50 This can be achieved,
according to Farrakhan, by “righteousness, justice and peace,” which, when
practiced, can “form the basis of the Kingdom of God on earth.”51 However
“egalitarian” this message may sound, however, there is a catch. In 2007,
in an interview with The Final Call newspaper (an official Nation of Islam
publication), Farrakhan was asked:
After Saviours’ Day 2007, you delivered a series of spiritual messages
under the general title of “One Nation Under God,” culminating with
your message “Come Out of Her, My People” delivered at the 12th Anni-
versary Commemoration of the Million Man March on Oct. 16, 2007 in
Atlanta, Ga. What is your statement to Black America about the signifi-
cance and prophetic meaning of these messages for our survival?
Farrakhan’s answer, although surprising at first to outsiders, should ulti-
mately come as no surprise, given his long-standing patterns of thinking:
Allah (God) knows that we need prayer, but if we don’t separate from
an enemy bent on our destruction, prayer alone will not help us to sur-
vive. The Honorable Elijah Muhammad points out to us in the scriptures
of Bible and Qur’an that the day has arrived for our separation, and the
enemy has used integration as a hypocritical trick to make those of us who
have been under his foot for 400 years think that our 400-year-old enemy
has all of a sudden become our friend. We must wake up to the time and
what must be done in such a time. It is not a time for integration; it is a time
for us to separate from our former slave-masters and their children and go for
self, do for self, and build a Nation under the Guidance of Almighty God.52

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 359
Farrakhan maintains “there can be no peace between us and our former
slave masters and their children as long as we do not go along with the
status quo. When we demand Justice, Freedom and Equity, we excite the
worst in our slave masters and their children.”53 Speaking of recent hate
crimes committed in 2007 “throughout America by evil White people bent
on teaching us a lesson,” Farrakhan warns: “We must unite or suffer the
consequences, for these events are going to multiply at such a pace that
every Black person in America will see the face of a beast that has been
masquerading as a friend.”54 To make matters worse, Farrakhan still adheres
to a Jewish conspiracy theory. In the same 2007 interview, Farrakhan said
that “the Zionists have worked their way into control in America, Brit-
ain, France, Germany and other countries of the world.”55 As for America
itself, in 2007 Farrakhan predicted, in his “absence” (presumably after his
death) “you see the horrors of the fall of this Great Mystery Babylon—the
United States of America.”56 Farrakhan, and therefore the Nation of Islam
that is still under his shadow, holds a deeply conflicted vision of America,
inauthentically promulgated in the name of the religion of Islam—to the
extent that religious racism devalues the polished rhetoric of faith-based
egalitarianism.
Contemporary Muslim Myths and Visions of America
Before all else, it is important to point out that there is no single Mus-
lim perspective on America. Notwithstanding this fact, America receives
considerable criticism from abroad, as the “Great Satan” Myth amply dem-
onstrates. That myth was answered by the opposite and equal “Axis of Evil”
counter-myth. In other words, the arrow quickly flew back at the archer, so
to speak. The result is reciprocal demonization. Quite expectedly, the Great
Satan Myth has created problems for Muslims in America. Is an Ameri-
can Muslim somehow “satanic” by virtue of being a citizen of the “Great
Satan”? Reciprocally, are Americans to understand that Islam, as under-
stood in the contemporary Muslim world, intrinsically anti-America? The
answer to both rhetorical questions is obviously negative. However, largely
as a consequence of American foreign policy considerations, American Mus-
lims are as conflicted about America as they are diverse with respect to their
range of “responses to modernity,” as discussed in Chapter 9. By no stretch
of the imagination does Radical Islamism represent mainstream Islam. Yet
one would hardly reach this conclusion if based on what the popular media
represents.
As the “Great Satan,” America has no positive world role from the Radi-
cal Islamist perspective. While the “Axis of Evil” counter-myth does imbue
America with a world role in promoting democracy and freedom in the Mid-
dle East and around the world, this vision arises out of a context completely
foreign to the Muslim world. Efforts to dispel the “Great Satan” Myth and to

360 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
minimize the fallout from the “Axis of Evil” Myth are focused primarily on
the issue of whether America is anti-Islamic or pro-Islamic. As such, America
has no positive role even from a moderate Islamic perspective. Might America
have a world role from the perspective of “Progressive Islam”?
The most vocal proponent of Progressive Islam is Omid Safi, associate
professor of Islamic Studies and Director of Middle East and Islamic Stud-
ies at Colgate University, in Hamilton, New York. Co-chair for the Study of
Islam Section at the American Academy of Religion, Dr. Safi has edited the
2003 multi-author work, Progressive Muslims: On Justice, Gender, and Plural-
ism.57 Progressive Islam is defined, in part, as follows:
Progressive Muslims espouse a critical and non-apologetic “multiple cri-
tique” with respect to both Islam and modernity. They are undoubtedly
postmodern in the sense of their critical approach to modernity. That
double engagement with the varieties of Islam and modernity, plus an
emphasis on concrete social action and transformation, is the defining
characteristic of progressive Islam today.58
As for Safi and the Progressive Muslim movement, there has been some
debate about the group in its blurring the line between academic and con-
fessional.59 Does Safi represent the voices of academics or of “Progressive
Muslims” themselves?
“Progressive ijtihád (reasoning)” is the hallmark of the movement. As
a “global phenomenon,” Safi distances himself and the movement from
any explicit association with America, as it “would be a clear mistake to
somehow reduce the emergence of progressive Islam to being a new ‘Ameri-
can Islam’.”60 Safi points to the fact that “Progressive Muslims are found
everywhere in the global Muslim umma [community].”61 Because “almost
all progressive Muslims are profoundly skeptical of nationalism,” they
“instinctively and deliberately reject” and attempt to “transform it into
an ‘American Islam’ commodity to be exported all over the world.”62 They
also studiously avoid “appropriation by the United States’ administration,
which has used the language of reforming Islam to justify its invasion of
Muslim countries such as Iraq.”63 Proponents of Progressive Islam “promise
of ushering in a real paradigm shift in the relationship of Muslims to both
Islam and modernity.”64 Even so, Progressive Islam has not defined a world
role for America. To do so would be to defeat the universal outlook and
scope of Progressive Islam as a reform movement within the contemporary
Muslim world itself.
Buddhist Myths and Visions of America
Apart from Robert Thurman’s “ten planks” as presented in an appendix in
his Buddhist manifesto, Inner Revolution, and beyond Daisaku Ikeda’s vision

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 361
of the “Second American Renaissance” as heralded in Songs for America, what
unifies the visions of the Dalai Lama, Robert Thurman, and Ikeda is the
goal of establishing democracy on the order of enlightenment principles.
According to one commentator, “Buddhist Democracy refers to a parlia-
mentary democracy in which every individual has been awakened to the
Principles of Buddhism.”65 While there is a great difference between Soka
Gakkai and Tibetan Buddhism, both are agreed that democracy, enlightened
by Buddhist precepts and praxis, combine to form the most potentially ideal
form of governance for the world.
In 1991, the Dalai Lama, who has promoted the concept of a “Bud-
dhist Democracy” among his fellow Tibetans, said that “America has the
potential to make this world straight.”66 By this, he meant America’s world
role—primarily economically and politically. In 1995, the Dalai Lama fur-
ther elaborated:
The United States must not underestimate its role in the world today.
As Americans you should be proud of your heritage, proud of the values
upon which your Constitution is based. Accordingly, you should not shirk
from your responsibility to bring those same fundamental rights and free-
doms to people living under totalitarian regimes.67
In My Dear Friends in America (2001),68 Daisaku Ikeda, President of Soka
Gakkai International, writes that social advances that take place in America
have global repercussions: “The advance of America is the advance of the
world. An inch of growth for America is an inch of growth for the rest of the
world. I am convinced that, in the future, America will of necessity become
the central stage for the SGI movement.”69 America’s world role, as a Bod-
hisattva nation, is to promote Buddhistically enlightened democracy.
Baha’i Myths and Visions of America
The Baha’i Emancipation/Civil War Myth and the Baha’i Wilsonian Myth
are retrospective perspectives within the Baha’i vision of the destiny of
America—which vision is primarily prospective in that it is forward-
looking, focusing on America’s world role in promoting world unity. The
Baha’i Faith defines a world role for America, which is to play a leader-
ship role in creating an emancipatory future for societies globally. However,
the Baha’i religion studiously eschews any involvement in partisan politics,
which is seen as fundamentally divisive. Baha’is are therefore apolitical,
while working with “the body politic” in trying to broaden and heighten
“the consciousness of the oneness of mankind”: “In every Dispensation,
the light of Divine Guidance has been focused upon one central theme,”
writes ‘Abdu’l-Baha. “In this wondrous Revelation, this glorious century,
the foundation of the Faith of God and the distinguishing feature of His Law

362 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
is the consciousness of the Oneness of Mankind.”70 One particular Baha’i
text develops specific reasons for the spiritual leadership that America has
the opportunity and, in a sense, the moral obligation to exercise:
On the other hand is a nation that has achieved undisputed ascendancy
in the entire Western Hemisphere, whose rulers have been uniquely hon-
ored by being collectively addressed by the Author of the Baha’i Revelation
in His Kitáb-i-Aqdas; which has been acclaimed by ‘Abdu’l-Baha as the
“home of the righteous and the gathering-place of the free,”71 where the
“splendors of His light shall be revealed, where the mysteries of His Faith
shall be unveiled”72 and belonging to a continent which, as recorded by
that same pen, “giveth signs and evidences of very great advancement,”73
whose “future is even more promising,”74 whose “influence and illumi-
nation are far-reaching,”75 and which “will lead all nations spiritually.”76
Moreover, it is to this great republic of the West that the Center of the
Covenant of Baha’u’llah has referred as the nation that has “developed
powers and capacities greater and more wonderful than other nations,”77
and which “is equipped and empowered to accomplish that which will
adorn the pages of history, to become the envy of the world, and be blest
in both the East and the West for the triumph of its people.”78 It is for
this same American democracy that He expressed His fervent hope that
it might be “the first nation to establish the foundation of international
agreement,” “to proclaim the unity of mankind,” and “to unfurl the Stan-
dard of the Most Great Peace,”79 that it might become “the distributing
center of spiritual enlightenment, and all the world receive this heavenly
blessing,”80 and that its inhabitants might “rise from their present mate-
rial attainments to such a height that heavenly illumination may stream
from this center to all the peoples of the world.”81 It is in connection with
its people that He has affirmed that they are “indeed worthy of being the
first to build the Tabernacle of the Great Peace and proclaim the oneness
of mankind.”82
This is a remarkably visionary statement. Observe how Shoghi Effen-
di’s vision of America goes far beyond a nationalistic civil religion. This
vision transcends national boundaries, overleaps vested national interests,
and addresses the interests of the widest “body politic”—the planet Earth
itself.83 In addition to the Baha’i Faith’s emphasis on egalitarian social
principles, a human spiritual transformation at the levels of the individual
and community is needed in order to put those principles into practice.
Overcoming racism and other social evils clearly requires both policy and
personal change. Here, precept and praxis go hand-in-hand. Baha’i prin-
ciples of unity will be effective only to the degree that they are put into
practice, both individually and collectively.
Among the American Baha’is, it may be said that the Baha’i community
has its counterpart of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. in Baha’i philosopher Dr.

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 363
Alain Leroy Locke (1885–1954). Of Locke, Martin Luther King himself said:
“We’re going to let our children know that the only philosophers that lived
were not Plato and Aristotle, but W. E. B. Du Bois and Alain Locke came
through the universe.”84 Interestingly, Locke developed a philosophy of
democracy in nine dimensions. Locke’s grand (though not systematic) the-
ory of democracy sequenced local, moral, political, economic, and cultural
stages of democracy as they arced through history, with racial, social, spiri-
tual, and world democracy completing the trajectory. Adjunct notions of
natural, practical, progressive, creative, intellectual, equalitarian democracy
crystallized the paradigm. Seeing America as “a unique social experiment,”
Locke’s larger goal was to “Americanize Americans”85 and to further democ-
ratize democracy itself with the simple yet profound message that equality is
the bedrock of democracy: “Eventually, however, just as world-mindedness
must dominate and remould [sic] nation-mindedness, so we must trans-
form eventually race-mindedness into human-mindedness.”86
The Baha’i perspective on the destiny of America is a singular example of
how minority religions, as James Moorhead rightly observed, have contrib-
uted and can presently consecrate their own religious myths of and visions
of America for the social benefit of America as a whole.
An Overview of America’s World Role
In the chart below, America’s world role—as defined by Protestantism
and as redefined by the minority faiths treated in this book—presents a
convenient, albeit oversimplified, representation of the results of the inves-
tigation conducted over the course of this book. The reader will note points
of convergence among the more progressive minority faiths, where Amer-
ica, ideally, would serve as a particular instrument of a universal purpose.
Here, the very notion of Manifest Destiny (the right of America to colonize,
civilize, and Christianize the continent of North America) is replaced by a
concept of what might be thought of as a “common destiny”—an overarch-
ing, cosmopolitan worldview. This is perhaps best seen in a conspectus of
the various visions of America’s world role as recapitulated in Table 13.1.
Final Reflections: A World Civil Religion?
Is there some larger significance to the existence of these myths and visions
of America? Without wishing to state the obvious, the religious myths and
visions surveyed here deal with some of the perennial problematics in the
American experience. They operate as social commentaries on the realities
of American life, especially as measured against the ideals of American civil
religion—which is where these myths intersect in the public sphere and
in civil discourse. These religious myths and visions of America present a

364 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
full range of mythic and ideological possibilities. To the extent that myths
are vehicles of social truths (and thus function as “true lies”87), the myths
themselves may be compared. From this comparison, certain salient charac-
teristics will fall into focus, which will be briefly touched on here.
Taking an inventory of the eleven religions covered in this book, two
negative themes stand out: racial prejudice and religious prejudice. The obvious
examples of these are the religions presented back-to-back in Chapters 7
and 8, that is, Christian Identity and the Nation of Islam. Christian Identity
has always been considered radical, and it can never become mainstream.
Its proposed homeland (the Northwest Imperative) is, in a sense, the logi-
cal outcome of Identity’s Two-Seed Myth, the Mud Races Myth, the Lost
Tribes Myth, and the Racial Holy War Myth.
In somewhat the same way as Identity represents an extreme form of white
nationalism, the Nation of Islam is a species of Black nationalism, as the Black
Muslim Yacub Myth, Mother Wheel Myth, and the Destruction of America
Myth bear out. However, their functional parallelism is a case of two lines
diverging. Although they may have functionally intersected in the past, their
current directions are increasingly divergent. This is because of the Nation
of Islam’s relatively recent reconciliation with mainstream Islam. Black Mus-
lims are still Black nationalists, but they have quietly put Elijah Muhammad’s
racist myths (shared by Malcolm X in “Black Man’s History”) behind them.
The dramatic change that took place when Malcolm X—after his pilgrimage
to Mecca, where he personally witnessed a brotherhood of peoples of all races
united by their common identity as Muslims—came to a realization that all
whites were not “devils” as Elijah Muhammad had maintained. This is the
Malcolm X that America has come to know and honor. The earlier Malcolm X
would brook no tolerance in American mainstream society today.
The Protestants, collectively speaking, forged the “master myth” of Amer-
ica. Under its secularized corollary (albeit with much Christian support),
the Manifest Destiny Myth, when translated into Congressional policy and
duly executed, amounted to wholesale genocide of entire populations of
the American Indian, and generally had a devastating impact on all things
Indian. As racial prejudice sought religious sanction in the “Curse of Ham”
Myth, it was effectively challenged by the African American Exodus Coun-
ter-Myth, which functioned to insulate African American Christians from
the further impact of what may be described as essentially White forms of
“Christianity,” and to produce an African American theology of liberation in
its wake. The Latter-day Saints’ Mark of Cain Myth and, to a lesser extent,
the Lost Tribes Myth are vestiges of racist beginnings that have effectively
been renounced by the Latter-day Saints, but without overt repudiation. It
would take something similar to the 1978 revelation received by LDS presi-
dent Spencer Kimball to overturn some of the entrenched racial attitudes
that overtly persist in Christian Identity and that covertly persist in the
Nation of Islam, although it is expected that such vestiges of anti-White
sentiment will subside within a more racially egalitarian America.

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 365
Table 13.1 America’s World Role as Defined by Protestantism and Minority Faiths
MINORITY FAITH
AMERICA’S WORLD ROLE
Native American
Religion
To promote environmental ethics and ecological sus-
tainability throughout “Turtle Island” and beyond. In
the heritage of Deganawida, to advance global democ-
racy in the interests of world peace
Protestantism
To promote originally Puritan values of liberty, egali-
tarianism, individualism, populism, and laissez-faire.
To promote global democracy. To promote “worldwide
brotherhood,” as expressed by Dr. Martin Luther
King’s vision of “the World House.”
Christian Right
To promote Christian values consistent with America
as a “Christian nation.”
Catholicism
To promote “religious liberty as a basic civil right.” To
foster “the growth of international cooperation and
solidarity in the service of that peace.”
Judaism
To promote unity and pluralism “uniting all people in
peace and freedom.”
Mormon
To promote liberty and equal rights. To strengthen the
foundation of society by fostering family values.
Christian Identity
To preserve the purity of the White race. To establish a
Whites-only homeland
Nation of Islam
To realize America’s potential to become the “King-
dom of God on earth”—“an egalitarian kingdom
structured on truth, where each . . . will be treated
with fairness and justice.” However: “It is not a time
for integration; it is a time for us to separate from our
former slave-masters.” (2008)
Contemporary Islam
Radical Islamism: No positive world role for America.
(Progressive Islam: No definitive world role for America.)
Buddhism
To “bring those same fundamental rights and freedoms
to people living under totalitarian regimes” and “to
make this world straight.” (Dalai Lama) To cultivate “a
renaissance and enlightenment science [of] our times.”
(Robert Thurman) To promote a “Buddhist Democ-
racy.” (Dalai Lama, Thurman, Ikeda)
Baha’i Faith
To “lead all nations spiritually” in order to “unify the
world.”

366 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Religious prejudice, the other pervasively negative theme, has run its
course as well, although plenty of religious prejudice remains. Not only was
Christian Identity motivated by racial hate, but by religious prejudice as
well, particularly with respect to Jews. The irony is that Jewish source mate-
rial—primarily, what Christians have traditionally referred to as the “Old
Testament”—was taken up and reworked to serve the purposes of White
nationalism. Adam became the progenitor and patriarch of Whites, while
Satan had intercourse with Eve and spawned the reptilian non-White races.
The same was true in Identity’s appropriation of the Jewish Lost Tribes Myth.
While Mormons were not anti-Semitic, they also wrested the Lost Tribes
Myth out of its originally Jewish context and made them American Indians,
whose skin was originally white, but was later cursed with dark skin as a
consequence of their unrighteousness. World unity—championed especially
by the Dalai Lama’s reformulation of Tibetan Buddhism and by the Baha’i
Faith—reconciles and resolves such racial and religious prejudices into a pro-
gressive and constructive agenda for the reconstruction of the world globally.
The alternative visions of America, presented by minority faiths, may be
seen as responses to the challenges of pluralism and race, in which minor-
ity faiths—America’s alternative religions—implicitly seek to transcend the
legacy of Puritanism in shaping American self-image. Wherever they embody
egalitarian and progressive ideals, these minority faiths may be said to share
important points of convergence. If visions of America’s role in promoting an
egalitarian, justice-based world are translated into reality, then, in effect, they
operate as projects of universal emancipation. Progressive visions of Ameri-
ca’s world role, as held by some of the minority faiths presented in this book,
have the potential and power to contribute to what White calls “consensus
beliefs” and the American “consensus perception of world affairs.”
Whatever the merits and demerits of these myths and visions of Amer-
ica, they serve to stimulate reflection on social policy at a national level, and
on purpose at an individual level. “What does it mean to be an American?”
is a venerable, yet surprisingly fresh question. The question itself, not to
mention its possible answers, invites renewed thinking on the purpose for
which, under various religious views, people were created and for which
America is now the world’s superpower. As presented in this book, these
myths and visions of America serve as a mirror in which individual and
national reflection may take place. True, the mirror may be distorted, but
the mirror may also be refined such that it may one day reflect, not the
world as it has been, but the world as it may become. America is something
to be “religious” about, especially if one has the conviction that America—if
it is to live up to its founding and quintessential values—is all about making
the world a better place.
Recall that, in Myths America Lives By, author Richard Hughes had pre-
sented five foundational myths of America. Again, these are the following:
(1) the Myth of the Chosen Nation; (2) the Myth of Nature’s Nation; (3)
the Myth of the Christian Nation; (4) the Myth of the Millennial Nation;

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 367
and (5) the Myth of the Innocent Nation.88 Perhaps—and this is tentative
at best—the title should now, or in good time, be revised to reflect the
past tense—Myths America Lived By. If this title is to be kept in its present
tense, however, here is how these same myths might have been reshaped by
America’s minority faiths: (1) the Myth of the Multilateral Nation; (2) the
Myth of the Environmental Nation; (3) the Myth of the Multifaith Nation;
(4) the Myth of the Ethical Nation; and (5) the Myth of the Cosmopolitan
Nation. This revisioning of the mission and destiny of America is actually
the third of three basic types of American civil religion.
In Chapter 1, the reader will recall that Dean Hoge, sociologist at Catholic
University of America, has outlined three types of civil visions of America,
the first two of which clearly have American Protestant origins. The present
writer will simply term these three visions of America as (1) Exemplarism;
(2) Vindicationism; and (3) Cosmopolitanism.89 In the first two instances,
Henry Kissinger has characterized America’s world role as both beacon and
crusader.90 These may be briefly recapitulated as follows.
(1) Exemplarism: The first vision of America is the Puritan vision, as first
articulated by John Winthrop: “Wee shall be as a Citty upon a Hill, the Eies of
all people are uppon us.”91 According to Hoge, the Puritan vision “focused on
making America an example to the world, a model society to show all the
world what a godly and free nation can be.”92
(2) Vindicationism: From the vision of America as a model nation for
other nations to follow led to a more proactive program of action, in which
America’s mission was to influence (or coerce) other nations to incorporate
American principles of religion and good governance. This second vision,
Hoge notes, “saw America as a chosen people with an obligation to work
actively in the world to win others to American principles and to safeguard
those principles everywhere.”93 Although weak at first, this vision was the
direct precursor of the doctrine of Manifest Destiny: “It was clearly stated
in the doctrine of Manifest Destiny, that America’s destiny was to settle the
whole continent—and later, to bring freedom and civilization to all peo-
ples.”94 This “activistic vision” of America “was a motivating source of the
world Christian mission movement and of American expansionism in the
late nineteenth century” in that “America would save the world for Christ
or for democracy.”95
The problem with Manifest Destiny is that the means justified the end, and
great evils were perpetrated on Native Americans (i.e., the “First Nations,”
to invoke a Canadian term) not to mention pretextual territorial gains at the
expense of other nations, of which the U.S.–Mexican War of 1846–1848 offers
a prime instance in American history. This was America’s first major conflict
driven by the policy of “Manifest Destiny”—the doctrine that America, by
dint of its divine destiny, had a God-given right to expand the nation’s bor-
ders from sea to shining sea.96 As a result of the U.S.–Mexican War, America
acquired the northern half of Mexico—a vast territory that later became the
states of California, Nevada, Arizona, New Mexico, and Utah.

368 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
(3) Cosmopolitanism: “A third vision of America’s mission,” Hoge goes
on to say, “calls for internationalism based not on messianic ideas but on a
posture of openness and cooperation, assuming that others have legitimate
interests and identities and equally valid perceptions of truth.”97 Hoge con-
nects this third ideal with Robert Bellah’s ideal of a “world civil religion.”98
If America is to be reshaped as a multilateral, environmental, multifaith,
ethical, and cosmopolitan nation, it may, in large part, be due to the col-
lective influence of progressive minority faiths. This convergent influence
may well be mediated through the instrumentality of commonly held
“civil religion,” which may be described as a “vehicle of national religious
self-understanding.”99
First described by Robert N. Bellah (professor emeritus of sociology and
comparative studies at the University of California, Berkeley), American civil
religion is itself in flux. In the conclusion of his seminal essay, “Civil Reli-
gion in America,” Bellah foresees the emergence of a “world civil religion”
coefficient with “the emergence of a genuine transnational sovereignty.”100
This world civil religion would necessarily incorporate “vital international
symbolism into our civil religion” whereby “American civil religion” would
become “simply one part of a new civil religion of the world.”101 Obviously
it would “draw on religious traditions beyond the sphere of biblical religion
alone.”102 In other words, while American civil religion has Protestant ori-
gins and is a decidedly American phenomenon, a world civil religion would
be international in scope and interfaith in nature.
Bellah’s vision of a world civil religion has attracted genuine and wide-
spread criticism. In his defense, Paul Nathanson, author of Over the Rainbow:
The Wizard of Oz as a Secular Myth of America, notes that “Bellah believed that
this process” of promoting a world civil religion “need not disrupt the conti-
nuity of American civil religion.”103 This is because the notion of a world civil
religion is “based not on worship of the nation itself, but on an understanding
of American history in the light of an ultimate and universal reality.”104 The
emergence of a world civil religion would, in the American context, represent
a shift from a national to a global perspective. These two perspectives need
not be at odds with one another. A reconciliation is possible. This would
necessarily entail an aligning of the two perspectives. “A world civil religion,”
Bellah concludes in “Civil Religion in America,” is a world-embracing vision
that “could be accepted as a fulfillment and not as a denial of American civil
religion”—as “the eschatological hope of American civil religion from the
beginning.”105 Bellah wrote this statement in 1967. Forty years later, in 2007,
Bellah revisited his notion of a world civil religion, reflecting on the role that
world religions may play in promoting such a common vision:
But for the creation of a viable and coherent world order a world civil
society is surely an essential precondition, and, dare I say it, any actual
civil society will have a religious dimension, will need not only a legal and
an ethical framework, but some notion that it conforms to the nature of

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 369
ultimate reality. The biggest immediate problem is the strengthening of
global civil society. As I will elaborate in my next post, I would suggest
that perhaps the religious communities of the world may have something to con-
tribute to that global civil society, and, indeed, that their participation may be
essential for its success.106
Is there a harmonic convergence of the visions of America as held by Prot-
estantism and as redefined by America’s minority faiths? If so, it would look
something like this: In the Native American vision of America’s world role,
America should promote environmental ethics and ecological sustainabil-
ity throughout “Turtle Island” and beyond. In the heritage of Deganawida,
America should advance global democracy in the interests of world peace
abroad and at home, beginning with healing and repairing the injustices of
the past and mitigating their continuing social and economic effects upon
America’s indigenous peoples in the present.
In the Protestant vision of America, America should foster the origi-
nally Puritan values of liberty, egalitarianism, individualism, populism, and
laissez-faire, and promote democracy globally as well, through enlightened
exemplarism, vindicationism, and cosmopolitanism. The quality of that
democracy will be greatly enhanced when America uses her influence to
realize and bring into reality a “worldwide brotherhood,” as foreseen in Dr.
Martin Luther King’s vision of “the World House.” While the subtitle of
this book is “How Minority Faiths Transformed America’s World Role,” it
should be noted that it took the prophetic voice of a vocal minority—pri-
marily African American civil rights leaders—to influence (although not
wholly transform) the Protestant vision of America’s world role.
Briefly, America fulfills its Catholic mandate by promoting “religious
liberty as a basic civil right,” and fostering “the growth of international coop-
eration and solidarity in the service of that peace.”107 Judaism’s vision of
America is that it promote unity and pluralism “uniting all people in peace
and freedom.”108 The Mormon vision of America, inter alia, is to promote lib-
erty and equal rights, and to strengthen the foundation of society by fostering
family values.109 (Joseph Smith’s 1844 political platform of “theodemocracy,”
however, appears to have no real place in Mormon doctrine.)
America should brook no tolerance for Christian Identity’s goal of
establishing a Whites-only homeland. While eschewing, if possible, the
self-segregation that Louis Farrakhan continues to advocate as of December
2007—“It is not a time for integration; it is a time for us to separate from our for-
mer slave-masters”110—America can take cognizance of the Nation of Islam’s
vision that America may realize its potential to become the “Kingdom of
God on earth”—“an egalitarian kingdom structured on truth, where each
. . . will be treated with fairness and justice.”111 Since contemporary Radi-
cal Islamism has no positive world role for America, and since progressive
Islam has no definitive world role for America either, the Islamic mandate
for America has not reached anything closely resembling a true consensus.

370 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Tibetan Buddhism’s vision of America is to “bring those same fundamen-
tal rights and freedoms to people living under totalitarian regimes,” “to
make this world straight” (Dalai Lama), and to cultivate “a renaissance and
enlightenment science in our times” (Robert Thurman), as well as to pro-
mote a “Buddhist Democracy” (Dalai Lama, Thurman, Ikeda).
America will fulfill the Baha’i Faith’s vision of its great destiny when it
arises to “lead all nations spiritually” in order to “unify the world.” America
will then be “prepared to play a preponderating role, as foretold by ‘Abdu’l-
Baha, in the hoisting of the standard of the Lesser Peace, in the unification
of mankind, and in the establishment of a world federal government on this
planet.”112 Only then will
that great republic . . . continue to evolve, undivided and undefeatable,
until the sum total of its contributions to the birth, the rise and the
fruition of that world civilization, the child of the Most Great Peace and
hallmark of the Golden Age of the Dispensation of Baha’u’llah, will have
been made, and its last task discharged.113
Civil religion can be the common ground of progressive religious values,
which have the potential to exert a positive influence in the civic sphere. To
the extent that civil religion incorporates the myth of America’s spiritual
destiny, that very myth will itself be subject to change and modifications, in
accordance with the requirements of the times in which people live. “Part
of the myth’s resilience is due to the ability of Americans to adjust their
religious sense of the nation’s destiny to changed circumstances and altered
expectations,” Conrad Cherry observes. “It is reasonable to conclude that
the same resilience will be evident in the future.”114 As social commentator
John O’Sullivan puts it, America’s “sense of itself” has always had to adjust
to new historical circumstances and changed historical realities:
America’s sense of itself always had a self-conscious, even ideological,
side. First, the United States, founded by a rebellion against legitimate
authority, had to explain and justify that rebellion to mankind. Then, the
growing nation had to justify taking over a continent from its previous
owners. Finally, it had to persuade the immigrants arriving on that con-
tinent that, in assimilating to the American nation, they were not being
false to themselves, that Americanism was in some sense a universal
creed to which all could be admitted.115
The changed circumstances of today may be summed up in one word:
globalization. Globalization refers to “both the compression of the world and
intensification of consciousness of the world as a whole” and as “both con-
crete global interdependence and consciousness of the global whole.”116 It is
further defined as “the intensification of worldwide social relations which
link distant localities in such a way that local happenings are shaped by

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 371
events occurring many miles away and vice versa.”117 Ethical responses to
globalization, which are essentially world order issues,118 have given rise to
a search for values of egalitarianism, equity, and sustainability—a worldview
that some have called “globalism.” As a response to globalization, globalism
may be viewed as a reflex or extension of Kantian cosmopolitanism and as
the “moral universalism of international relations.”119 Globalism, as a form
of international ethics, may be considered to be the equivalent of a renewed
cosmopolitanism that, today, views the world as an organic whole and advo-
cates a global ethic commensurate with the needs of the twenty-first century.
Religions in America can and should translate their shared ideals into an
American civil religion—and a corresponding ethic—that can help form a
basis for the world civil religion that Robert Bellah envisions. To refine the
point, religions ideally will remythologize and revision America in increas-
ingly convergent and harmonic ways, offering an informal consensus on
what may be called proactive American cosmopolitanism, where national inter-
ests are integrated with supranational interests, linking American foreign
policy and the requirements of world order. If attuned to the needs of this
day and age, these thought-orienting myths and action-incentive visions
have every potential to serve as a spiritual mandate for America. Under the
gaze of their ideals, universally minded religions can set the stage for the
next quantum leap in the world’s social evolution—transitioning from war
to peace, from nationalism to internationalism, from religious particularism
to spiritual universalism, from racial animosity to racial amity, from gender
repression to gender equality, and from resource exploitation to environ-
mental renewal. Universal values actually devalue uniformity and promote
diversity. Where there is a common ground of universal values, unity can
therefore be the effect of diversity.
Myths and visions of America have attracted the theoretical interests of
scholars for generations. The late Canadian Americanist Sacvan Bercovitch was
among the foremost of these scholars. Bercovitch wrote of “transformations
in the symbolic construction of America.”120 What would happen if the three
paradigmatic visions of America—exemplarism, vindicationism, and cosmo-
politanism—were interwoven and transformed to meet the needs of the world
of today and tomorrow? Telescoping these into the future, perhaps America
can, one day, draw on the power of its moral authority (exemplarism)—if and
when America resolves its race, class, and gender issues—to benignly and
effectively exert its considerable political influence (vindicationism) for the
promotion of global peace through world unity (cosmopolitanism).
For this ever to happen, the adoption of universal principles of good gov-
ernance, of individual and group rights, of the equitable distribution of the
world’s wealth and resources, of environmental sustainability, and of an emer-
gent cosmopolitan order, will stand as a set of self-evident moral imperatives.
In all this, America’s leadership in bringing about enlightened international-
ism may be paradoxically characterized as a unilateral multilateralism—in which
America unilaterally takes the initiative to foster the conditions whereby the

372 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
community of nations works in multilateral concert, in an orchestration of
sovereign powers for the global good. Whether this entails endorsing arbi-
tration treaties, lending more authority to the Hague courts, or encouraging
qualified disarmament, national interest and world order can be guided by
the ethical principles offered by universally oriented religious worldviews.
Consider the example of President Theodore Roosevelt (1858–1919),
1906 Nobel Peace Prize laureate, who, in 1902, took the initiative in open-
ing the international Court of Arbitration at The Hague. Although founded
in 1899, the Court of Arbitration had not been called upon by any power
in its first three years of existence. When the United States and Mexico
agreed to arbitrate, before the Hague Tribunal, their differences over the
Pious Foundations of California, this example was followed by other pow-
ers, thus rendering the formerly inert arbitration machinery operational.
Roosevelt played a prominent role in extending the use of arbitration to
international problems in the Western Hemisphere as well.121 Such leader-
ship in international affairs was guided by religious principle. Writing that
American leadership must exemplify the “ideals of democracy, of liberty
under law, of social progress through peaceful industry, of education and
commerce, and of uncorrupted Christianity,” Roosevelt was steered by the
moral compass of Micah 6:8: “He has told you, O man, what is good; and
what does the Lord require of you but to do justice, and to love kindness,
and to walk humbly with your God.”122 As President Roosevelt propheti-
cally said: “Upon the success of our experiment much depends, not only
as regards our own welfare, but as regards the welfare of mankind.”123 In
fine, America’s political, economic, and scientific power can also serve as a
reflex of moral power. Will America—taking Theodore Roosevelt and Wood-
row Wilson as moral exemplars of American cosmopolitanism—unilaterally
take a leading role in initiating the multilateral process of bringing about the
following event, as presaged by one of the minority faiths, the Baha’i Faith?
True civilization will unfurl its banner in the midmost heart of the world
whenever a certain number of its distinguished and high-minded sov-
ereigns—the shining exemplars of devotion and determination—shall,
for the good and happiness of all mankind, arise, with firm resolve and
clear vision, to establish the Cause of Universal Peace. They must make
the Cause of Peace the object of general consultation, and seek by every
means in their power to establish a Union of the nations of the world.
They must conclude a binding treaty and establish a covenant, the provi-
sions of which shall be sound, inviolable and definite. They must proclaim
it to all the world and obtain for it the sanction of all the human race. This
supreme and noble undertaking—the real source of the peace and well-
being of all the world—should be regarded as sacred by all that dwell on
earth. All the forces of humanity must be mobilized to ensure the stabil-
ity and permanence of this Most Great Covenant. In this all-embracing
Pact the limits and frontiers of each and every nation should be clearly

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 373
fixed, the principles underlying the relations of governments towards one
another definitely laid down, and all international agreements and obliga-
tions ascertained.124
In this remarkable religious text, written by ‘Abdu’l-Baha in 1875, the
cause of universal peace—the product of a stable and enlightened world
order—should be regarded as a “sacred” undertaking by peoples of all nations
and faiths. In 1963—88 years later—Pope John XXIII opened his magisterial
Pacem in Terris with these words: “Peace on Earth—which man throughout
the ages has so longed for and sought after—can never be established, never
guaranteed, except by the diligent observance of the divinely established
order.”125 In other words, world order—that is, the state of ideal international
relations described by ‘Abdu’l-Baha as “true civilization” and Pope John XXIII
as “peace on earth”—is essentially a sacred task best served when based on
the principles of justice and reciprocity advocated by the religions of the
world, whether in America or abroad. Indeed, according to the Universal
House of Justice (internationally elected Baha’i governing council) in a mes-
sage addressed “To the Peoples of the World” in 1985, “World peace is not
only possible but inevitable.”126 In this document, the role of religion is made
clear: “No serious attempt to set human affairs aright, to achieve world peace,
can ignore religion.”127 America, in protecting freedom of religion while pro-
scribing the establishment of religion, would do well to heed the enlightened
cosmopolitanism of the minority faiths that promote it.
As a grand synthesis of the ideals held by America’s progressive Protes-
tant and minority faiths, American civil religion can play a preponderating
role in inspiring a world civil religion that, in turn, universalizes these egali-
tarian values for all nations. As Pope John Paul II said to President Ronald
Reagan in 1987, America has a great responsibility in the world today:
The more powerful a nation is, the greater becomes its international
responsibility, the greater also must be its commitment to the betterment
of the lot of those whose very humanity is constantly being threatened by
want and need. . . . America needs freedom to be herself and to fulfill her
mission in the world.128
If America arises to accomplish this mission, then America will fulfill its
world role and realize its prophetic destiny—whether imagined or real.
America will have lived up to the grand destiny envisioned by the more
optimistic religions surveyed in these pages. Then will the noblest myths
of America have become reality and their grandest visions realized—in the
new American cosmopolitanism of world unity which, in the immortal
words of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., will “transform this world-wide neigh-
borhood into a world-wide brotherhood”129 and by which, according to one
Baha’i text, “the oneness of the whole body of nations will be made the rul-
ing principle of international life.”130

374 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Figure 13.1. NASA’s celebrated “Blue Marble” photo of Earth seen from space, taken
on December 7, 1972, at 5:39 a.m. by American astronauts aboard the Apollo 17
spacecraft, en route to the Moon, at a distance of about 18,000 miles above Earth.
It shows Antarctica, Africa, and the Arabian Peninsula. This famous photograph has
often been used to promote world peace.
(Public domain. Courtesy of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
(NASA).)

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 375
Chapter 13 Update: America and the
World—Toward “A More Perfect Union”
Thus in the beginning all the World was America, and more so than that
is now.
— John Locke (1690)131
The nature of America is such that many people define themselves—or a
part of themselves—in relation to it, for or against. This is part of the
reality in which our leaders must operate.
— Former President, Bill Clinton (2007)132
Critics have, and always will, take exception to American exceptionalism.
Is America special? Is this country unique? Is the United States of Amer-
ica favored in the eyes of God? Does America have a destiny beyond the
opportunistic and rapacious doctrine of Manifest Destiny? Can America
make good on what it has done badly? Can this country learn from its past
mistakes? Is that possible when this powerful nation continues to take
actions that don’t always live up to their worthwhile objectives?
Religious pluralism is a social fact. Does this diversity add to “value
polytheism,” to use Weber’s phrase? Or can religious values, across the
spectrum, somehow give rise to a consensus of core values? Does Ameri-
ca’s national motto, E pluribus unum (“from many, one”), apply to religions
across the social landscape? Put another way, can “civil religion” mediate
between faith-communities and the public sphere?
One thing we know for sure: America will always champion democracy.
Religions are not democracies, obviously. Yet religious visions of America
(at least the positive ones) tend to accept and appreciate this great nation as
a democracy. From the standpoint of American exceptionalism, America’s
most favored nation status, in the grand scheme of things, is typically seen
as a reflex of America’s regard for human rights and as a model of good
governance, but only to the degree that America can continue to live up to
its ideals, against which its domestic and international affairs will always
be measured. America not only has its own benchmarks, it is also judged in
the court of international opinion. America’s world role is not to rule, but
to influence for the greater good. To what extent do the religions surveyed
in this book have anything to say about America as a democracy, and how
does this tie into America’s world role at the present time, and into the
foreseeable future?
According to Daniele Archibugi, author of The Global Commonwealth of
Citizens: Toward Cosmopolitan Democracy, “democracy can and must become
the method of global governance.“133 Yet “democracy” is a broad term. It
means different things, depending on a given historical or national con-
text. Democracy may be narrowly construed, as in ancient Athens, where

376 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
democracy originated as a local phenomenon, and engaged primarily free
males as vocal and voting citizens. Broadly conceived, democracy is not only
a multi-national phenomenon, it is transnational, as well—if international
relations can aspire to a democracy of nations. A global self-governing
regime, which respects national sovereignties so long as the rights of other
nation-states are not infringed, has yet to be perfected.
Yet religions are distinct from politics, even though they do get mixed up
with one another. This book, subtitled God & Apple Pie, has surveyed theolo-
gies and ideologies of America. Sometimes this involves politics, including
ideas ranging from good governance to foreign policy. This may be thought
of as the “politicizing of religions” or even the “sacralizing of politics.” In
so doing, no attempt is being made at promoting a specific political agenda.
That is not the purpose of this book. In speaking of America’s “world role,”
of interest with general principles, not political principals, whether domes-
tic or foreign.
Generally, religions do not presume to tell governments how to do their
job, although there may be some principles of good governance that may be
brought to bear from the standpoint of religious ethics. Democracy may be
well and good, but it is not good enough. A system of governance, no mat-
ter how well designed, is only as good as the people who govern; as well as
the people governed. For example, in America, to discriminate on the basis
of race, religion, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, disability, etc.,
violates various federal and state public policies, codified as laws. Despite
the existence of “long arm statutes” that govern personal jurisdiction out-
side the boundaries of a given state, the law can only reach so far. The law
cannot change people’s hearts. Banning discrimination as a matter of law
is a legal remedy for infringing on the rights of others on the pretext of
who they are. In this sense, laws against discrimination are corrective. They
are not prescriptive. Good governance is measured by the yardstick of that
which is “good” (as well as expedient, efficient, cost-effective, etc.) not only
as it relates to the commonweal or “common good,” but also as it pertains
to the individual citizen. This is where religion comes into play in terms of
its influence on the world at large.
The Golden Rule exists, in its positive and negative forms, in just about
every world religion. Although a universal ethic, the Golden Rule is primar-
ily individual in nature. Is it possible to conceive of the Golden Rule as a
collective ethic? In other words, why can’t the Golden Rule apply to nations
as well as individuals? In terms of political realism, that’s far easier said
than done. In fact, some may argue that practicing reciprocity as a matter
of foreign policy may, in some cases, not be best for the national interest.
Then how best to align national interests with global interests? It would
seem that the two are increasingly interconnected, inextricably so, one from
the other.
As in Michael Jackson’s song, “We Are the World,” America is a micro-
cosm of the world. That much is generally accepted as social fact. To what

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 377
extent do Americans see themselves as part of the greater world? Perhaps
its time to redefine American exceptionalism in precisely these terms. The
global context is the new frame of reference. We are now all indigenous
with respect to the Earth. No exceptions. Instead of being an exception
to the general rule (to analogize blackletter law), what America does as a
nation, from now into the future, it should strive to do exceptionally well.
Resource-rich and politically and economically powerful, America can, and
should, live up to its role as a world citizen par excellence in the commu-
nity of nations. This is where nationalism—whether American nationalism,
Black nationalism (Nation of Islam), or White nationalism (Christian Iden-
tity)—simply gets in the way.
So how can religions serve as a moral and ethical resource for Amer-
ica? One way is to explore, through interfaith dialogue, how faiths can be
friends, how faith-communities can be partners for the common good, and
how America can best fulfill the noblest visions that have been described, in
detail, in the pages of this book. Myth-telling, after all, is not myth-making.
Yet the national myth is still in the making. The story of America is a con-
tinuing saga. It’s future is yet to be written. The religious myths and visions
retold in God & Apple Pie are worth retelling. They are “non-fiction” in the
sense that they really do, or did, exist. Yes, some of these myths have a sur-
real, fantastic character—as good as any fiction. Yet if religious myths are
meant to convey moral and social truths, then some are worth remember-
ing, and others are not. Some myths are no longer believed, only to remain
as relics of the past, like “ghost light” of dead galaxies, majestic star-cities
that no longer exist. These myths are put on display in the virtual museum
exhibits of the foregoing chapters. Time to go on. Time to rewrite. Time to
do our best to deserve the benediction, “God bless America!”
Things to come (eschatology) must come from the things themselves
(phenomenology). In English: the future arises out of the present, as the
product of the past. If universally true, then this is true for America as well.
Americans, one and all, will do well to reflect on what it means to be an
American. American identity is bound up with the “idea of America” and
a sense of national purpose. The best that the religions surveyed in this
book can offer is a panoply of options as to the world role America can best
pursue. This begins with each and every American citizen identifying, not
only as an American citizen but as a “world citizen” as well. A transition is
then needed from an “America first” mentality to an “Earth first” policy of
enlightened national self-interest.
Whether America’s distinctive nationalism will become America’s
distinctive internationalism, time will tell. In a quest for transcendent iden-
tity—individual and collective—America’s purpose may “to form a more
perfect Union”134 of nations, “with liberty and justice for all”—a pledge of
allegiance to the world, as well as to America itself. “God and country,” in
this sense, expands to “God and countries.” With poetic license, we can
“update” John Locke’s 1690 statement, cited as the epigraph to this section

378 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
of the Conclusion, for a rhetorical purpose: “Thus, in the end, America is
all the World, and more so than that is now.”135 Enlightened nationalism
becomes cosmopolitanism, where exceptionalism embraces egalitarian-
ism. There are those who say: “America should care about the world. No
exceptions.”
Which of the foregoing religious myths and visions of America best serve
as a moral compass, pointing in that direction (or in any other), is up to the
reader to judge. These American dreams and ambitions are in flux. They
change with the times, or fall by the wayside. If it’s time for change, the
religious myths and visions of America will likely follow. It’s all a part of the
grand American experiment to make this world a better place.
Perhaps it’s fitting to close with an ecumenical prayer for America—one
that ties in with Robert Bellah’s idea of a “civil religion.” On September
11, 2002—a year after the 9/11 terrorist attacks on America—a public cer-
emony was held at the Pentagon to commemorate those who lost their lives
the year before. The ceremony was broadcast on C-Span that day. Historian,
James Moore, Jr., commented that, on this solemn occasion, “the hues of
American religious diversity were cast in a special way”136 by a prayer com-
posed and read by Diane Sherwood, Ph.D., former Associate Director of the
InterFaith Conference of Metropolitan Washington, DC (IFC) for five years
until she passed away in 2003. Moore comments that this “was a prayer
that few who heard it have forgotten.”137 Moore adds: “At a time when the
United States stands alone, unparalleled in its economic, political, and mili-
tary strength, the nation implicitly recognizes that it is accountable for its
actions to a higher power.”138 Whether or not the rest of the world is watch-
ing, proverbially it could be said that “God is watching” America.
The prayer reads:
Holy One, Great Mystery,
Known by a thousand names,
We come today as a grieving family,
A grieving nation, a grieving world,
We open ourselves for deep healing,
Courage and wisdom.
We are Sikhs and Muslims, Christians and Jews,
Mormons, Baha’is, Hindus, Buddhists,
And those on a hundred paths to Truth,
We ask for Compassionate Hearts,
Sorrowing, but rejoicing always,
Dying but behold we live,
With a unified and humble voice we pray . . .
God Bless America!139
Americanism is not an ultimate value. At best, Americanism can have
utilitarian value as a social ethic if its ideals are attuned to global concerns.

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 379
In that sense, “apple pie” as a metaphor for Americanism presupposes not
only the making and baking of the pie, but the partaking of it as well. Who
is invited to the table? Who gets a proverbial “piece of the pie?
Astronomer Carl Sagan famously said: “If you want to make an apple pie
from scratch, you must first create the universe.”140 In the American social
universe, the values that religions typically associate with a higher power
should be part of the mix. America’s social matrix is now a microcosm of
the world. It’s not altogether nationally narcissistic to say that the world is
watching America. (So, in this sense, John Winthrop was right, after all.)
World opinion of the “City upon a Hill” today is mixed, but the global gaze
is transfixed. As “American as God and apple pie” is the idea and ideals of
“America” that evolve over time. Each “apple pie”—as a product or artifact
of American culture—should be better than the last. May the best visions of
America, portrayed above, work their transformational social magic. Provi-
dentially, that’s why “God and apple pie” go together in making America a
better place. Adding “God” as the most nutritive component, “apple pie” is
a metaphor to relish in celebrating and strengthening America’s adventure
in freedom and social impact on a world scale.
Notes

1. Mark R. Amstutz, “Faith-Based NGOs and U.S. Foreign Policy.” The Influ-
ence of Faith: Religious Groups and U.S. Foreign Policy. Ed. Eliott Abrams
(Lanham: Rowman and Littlefield, 2001), 175–187 [175–176].

2. Michael Barone, “A Place Like No Other.” Special issue: Defining America:
Why the U.S. Is Unique. U.S. News and World Report (June 28, 2004): 38.

3. Harold Hongju Koh, “Foreword: On American Exceptionalism,” 1481, n. 4.

4. Edward A. Kolodziej, “American Power and Global Order.” From Superpower
to Besieged Global Power: Restoring World Order After the Failure of the Bush
Doctrine. Ed. Edward A. Kolodziej and Roger E. Kanet (Atlanta: University
of Georgia Press, 2008), 3–30 [16–17].

5. Woodrow Wilson, “Wilson’s Fourteen Points, January 8, 1918.” PBS,
“Woodrow Wilson.” Primary Sources.

6. Woodrow Wilson, “Presenting the Treaty for Ratification Address to the
Senate of the United States. July 19, 1919.” God’s New Israel: Religious Inter-
pretations of American Destiny, 279–288 [288].

7. John A. Thompson, Woodrow Wilson (London: Longman, 2002).

8. Reprinted: Henry R. Luce, “The American Century.” Diplomatic History 23.2
(2002): 159–171 [168].

9. Fareed Zakaria, From Wealth to Power: The Unusual Origins of America’s
World Role (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1998).

10. Donald Wallace White, The American Century: The Rise and Decline of the
United States as a World Power (New Haven and London: Yale University
Press, 1996), 65 (emphasis added).

11. Ibid., 429.

12. Ibid., 78 (emphasis added).

380 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America

13. Eric Kaufmann, “American Exceptionalism Reconsidered: Anglo-Saxon
Ethnogenesis in the ‘Universal’ Nation, 1776–1850.” Journal of American
Studies 33.3 (1999): 437–457.

14. Ibid., 438.

15. Ibid., 439.

16. James H. Moorhead, “‘God’s Right Arm’? Minority Faiths and Protestant
Visions of America.” Minority Faiths and the American Protestant Mainstream.
Ed. Jonathan D. Sarna (Urbana/Chicago: University of Illinois Press, 1998),
335–361 [356].

17. J. Baird Callicott, “Natural History as Natural Religion.” Encyclopedia of
Religion and Nature. Ed. Bron Taylor and Jeffrey Kaplan (London/New York
Continuum, 2005), 2: 1164–1169.

18. Bron Taylor, “Environmental Ethics.” Encyclopedia of Religion and Nature,
1:597–608.

19. Gary Snyder, “For All.” Deep Ecology for the Twenty-First Century. Ed. George
Sessions (Berkeley: Shambhala, 1995), 462. See Gary Snyder, “For All.” The
Gary Snyder Reader: Prose, Poetry, and Translations (Washington, DC: Coun-
terpoint, 2000), 504.

20. See http://www.Senate.gov/reference/resources/pdf/hconres331.pdf. (Acce-
ssed November 10, 2014.)

21. See http://www.govtrack.us/congress/billtext.xpd?bill=h110-3585. (Accessed
November 1, 2014.)

22. Michael N. McConnell, A Country Between: The Upper Ohio Valley and Its Peo-
ples, 1724–1774 (Lincoln/London: University of Nebraska Press, 1992), 56.

23. Laurence M. Hauptman, Chapter Three, “Speculations on the Constitu-
tion.” Tribes and Tribulations: Misconceptions about American Indians and Their
Histories (Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press), 27.

24. Sacvan Bercovitch, “Rhetoric as Authority: Puritanism, the Bible, and the
Myth of America.” Social Science Information 21.1 (January 1982): 5–17 [5].

25. Ibid., 14.

26. Seymour Martin Lipset, American Exceptionalism: A Double-Edged Sword (New
York: Norton, 1996), 19.

27. John Winthrop, “A Model of Christian Charity.” God’s New Israel: Religious
Interpretations of American Destiny (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina
Press, 1998), 41.

28. Godfrey Hodgson, The Myth of American Exceptionalism (New Haven, CT/
London: Yale University Press, 2009), 2–3. See also Mark A. Noll, “‘Wee
Shall Be As A City Upon A Hill’: John Winthrop’s Non-American Excep-
tionalism.” Review Of Faith & International Affairs 10.2 (Summer 2012):
5–11.

29. Martin Luther King, Jr., “The World House.” Where Do We Go from Here:
Chaos or Community? (Boston: Beacon Press, 1968).

30. Qtd. in Gary Dorrien, The Making of American Liberal Theology: Idealism, Real-
ism, and Modernity, 1900–1950 (Louisville, KY: Westminster John Knox
Press, 2003), 62.

31. Stephen H. Webb, American Providence: A Nation with a Mission (New York:
Continuum, 2004).

32. Ibid., 168.

33. Ibid., 145.

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 381

34. Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity, 208–209.

35. Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity, 157.

36. Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity, 208–209.

37. Kyle, Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity, 4.

38. “Address of His Holiness Benedict XVI, ‘Rotunda’ Hall of the Pope John
Paul II Cultural Center of Washington, D.C.” Thursday, April 17, 2008.

39. “Address of John Paul II to Hon. Richard B. Cheney, Vice President of the
United States of America.” Tuesday, January 27, 2004.

40. Jonathan D. Sarna, “The Cult of Synthesis in American Jewish Culture.”
Jewish Social Studies 5.1–2 (1999): 52–79

41. Central Conference of American Rabbis (CCAR) Responsa, “Reform Sup-
port for Orthodox Institutions.”

42. Siddur Sim Shalom: A Prayer Book for Shabbat, Festivals, and Weekdays. Ed./
trans. Rabbi Jules Harlow (New York: The Rabbinical Assembly, The United
Synagogue of America, 1985), 415; David Golinkin, ed., The Responsa of
Professor Louis Ginzberg (New York: 1906), 54–55; Festival Prayer Book (New
York: 1927), 201; Sabbath and Festival Prayer Book (New York: 1946), 130.

43. D&C 101: 80.

44. D&C 109: 54.

45. 1 Nephi 13: 14.

46. 1 Nephi 13: 30.

47. Journal of Discourses, 2:317.

48. Betty A. Dobratz, “The Role of Religion in the Collective Identity of the
White Racialist Movement.” Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion 40.2
(2002): 287–302 [299].

49. Louis Farrakhan, “A Vision for America.”

50. Ibid.

51. Ibid.

52. FinalCall.com News, “Exclusive Interview with Minister Louis Farrakhan”
(December 2007). (Emphasis added.)

53. Ibid.

54. Ibid.

55. Ibid.

56. Louis Farrakhan, “One Nation Under God” (February 25, 2007).

57. Omar Safi, ed., Progressive Muslims: On Justice, Gender, and Pluralism (Oxford:
Oneworld Publications, 2003).

58. Omar Safi, “What is Progressive Islam?” ISIM Newsletter 13 (December
2003): 48–49 [48].

59. Andrew Rippin, e-mail dated August 13, 2008, to author.

60. Safi, “Progressive Islam?” 49.

61. Ibid., 49.

62. Ibid., 49.

63. Ibid., 49.

64. Ibid., 49.

65. Qtd. in Ted J. Solomon, “The Response of Three New Religions to the Cri-
sis in the Japanese Value System.” Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion
16.1 (March 1977): 1–14 [11].

66. Dalai Lama, “Remarks by His Holiness the Dalai Lama to the Mem-
bers of the United States Congress in the Rotunda of the Capitol Hill in

382 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
Washington, D.C., 18 April 1991.” Matthew E. Bunson, ed., The Wisdom
Teachings of the Dalai Lama (New York: Plume, 1997), 226.

67. Dalai Lama, “Statement by His Holiness the XIV Dalai Lama on His Visit
to the United States, September 1995.” Bunson, Wisdom Teachings, 224.

68. Daisaku Ikeda, My Dear Friends in America: Collected U.S. Speeches (Mount
Rainier, MD: World Tribune Press, 2001).

69. Ibid., 158.

70. Qtd. in and trans. by Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baha’u’llah (Wil-
mette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1991 [1936]), 36.

71. Citing a text written by ‘Abdu’l-Baha on February 2, 1917, Tablets of the
Divine Plan (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1993), 62 (with a
slightly different translation: “where the righteous will abide and the free
assemble”).

72. Citing a text written by ‘Abdu’l-Baha on February 2, 1917, in Tablets of the
Divine Plan (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1993), 62.

73. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, “Talk at Sanatorium of Dr. C. M. Swingle, Cleveland, Ohio,
6 May 1912. Notes by Sigel T. Brooks.” Promulgation of Universal Peace (Wil-
mette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1982), 104.

74. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Promulgation of Universal Peace, 104.

75. Ibid., 104.

76. Ibid., 104.

77. Ibid., 103.

78. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, “6 May 1912, Talk at Euclid Hall, Cleveland, Ohio.” See Prom-
ulgation of Universal Peace, 103. However, this latter version has the word
“democracy” instead of “people” at the end of the sentence, to wit: “This
American nation is equipped and empowered to accomplish that which
will adorn the pages of history, to become the envy of the world and be
blest in the East and the West for the triumph of its democracy.”

79. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, “20 April 1912, Talk at Orient-Occident-Unity Conference,
Public Library Hall, Washington, D.C. Notes by Joseph H. Hannen.” See
Promulgation of Universal Peace, 36.” See Promulgation of Universal Peace, 36.
The text here states: “May this American democracy be the first nation to
establish the foundation of international agreement. May it be the first
nation to proclaim the universality [Shoghi Effendi: “unity”] of mankind.
May it be the first to upraise [Shoghi Effendi: “unfurl”] the standard of the
Most Great Peace. . . .”

80. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, “16 April 1912. Talk at Hotel Ansonia to Baha’i Friends
of New Jersey, Broadway and Seventy-third Street, New York. Notes by
Ahmad Sohráb.” See Promulgation of Universal Peace, 19.

81. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Promulgation of Universal Peace, 20.

82. Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust,
1980), 35, citing, in this final sentence: ‘Abdu’l-Baha, Promulgation of Uni-
versal Peace, 37. Thanks to attorney Brent Poirier for referring the author to
this text. E-mail dated July 27, 2008 (Tarikh listserve).

83. See Roshan Danesh has further explored the Baha’i Faith and internationalism
in his journal article, “Internationalism and Divine Law: A Baha’i Perspective.”
Journal of Law and Religion 19.2 (2003/2004): 209–242. However, Danesh does
not directly address Baha’i texts that bear on the destiny of America.

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 383

84. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., “Address Delivered at Poor People’s Campaign
Rally.” March 19, 1968. Clarksdale, Mississippi. Qtd. in James H. Cone,
Risks of Faith: The Emergence of a Black Theology of Liberation, 1968–1998 (Bos-
ton: Beacon Press, 2000), 152, n. 20; Stanford University, “Martin Luther
King, Jr., Papers Project.”

85. See Christopher Buck, “Alain Locke.” American Writers: A Collection of Lit-
erary Biographies. Supplement XIV. Ed. Jay Parini (Farmington Hills, MI:
Scribner’s Reference/The Gale Group, 2004), 195–219; idem, Chapter Ten:
“Philosophy of Democracy: America, Race, and World Peace.” Alain Locke:
Faith and Philosophy (Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2005), 241–266.

86. Alain Locke, “Stretching Our Social Mind,” in Christopher Buck and Betty
J. Fisher, ed. and intro., “Alain Locke: Four Talks Redefining Democracy,
Education, and World Citizenship.” World Order 38.3 (2006/2007): 21–41
(forthcoming, 2008).

87. “Myths can also be understood as true stories.” Eddie S. Glaude, “Myth
and African American Self-Identity.” Religion and the Creation of Race and
Ethnicity: An Introduction. Ed. Craig R. Prentiss (New York: New York Uni-
versity Press, 2003), 29.

88. Richard T. Hughes, Myths America Lives By. Foreword by Robert N. Bellah
(Champaign: University of Illinois Press, 2004).

89. The first two terms, “Exemplarism” and “Vindicationism,” are borrowed
from Jonathan Monten, “The Roots of the Bush Doctrine: Power, National-
ism, and Democracy Promotion in U.S. Strategy.” International Security 29.4
(2005): 112–156 [112].

90. Henry Kissinger, Diplomacy (New York: Simon and Schuster, 1994), 18.

91. John Winthrop, “A Model of Christian Charity.” God’s New Israel: Religious
Interpretations of American Destiny, 41.

92. Dean Hoge, “Theological Views of America among Protestants.” Sociologi-
cal Analysis 37.2 (1976): 127–139 [128].

93. Ibid., 128.

94. Ibid., 128.

95. Ibid., 128.

96. Thomas Heitala, Manifest Destiny: Anxious Aggrandizement in Late Jacksonian
America (Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1985); Gene M. Brack, Mex-
ico Views Manifest Destiny, 1821–1846: An Essay on the Origins of the Mexican
War (Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press, 1975).

97. Hoge, “Theological Views of America,” 128.

98. Ibid., 128.

99. Robert N. Bellah, “Civil Religion in America.” Special Issue: Religion in
America. Dædalus: Journal of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences 96.1
(Winter 1967): 1–21 [1]. Reprinted in idem, Beyond Belief: Essays on Religion
in a Post-Traditionalist World (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1991).
100. Bellah, “Civil Religion,” 18
101. Ibid., 18.
102. Ibid., 18.
103. Paul Nathanson, Over the Rainbow: The Wizard of Oz as a Secular Myth of
America (Albany: State University of New York Press, 1991), 398, n. 56.
104. Ibid., 398, n. 56.

384 God & Apple Pie: Religious Myths and Visions of America
105. Bellah, “Civil Religion,” 21; James A. Mathisen, “Twenty Years After Bellah:
What Ever Happened to American Civil Religion?” Sociological Analysis 50.2
(1989): 129–146.
106. Robert N. Bellah, “Religion in the Public Sphere: Is a Global Civil Religion
Possible?” Emphasis added.
107. Pope John Paul II, “Address of John Paul II to Hon. Richard B. Cheney, Vice
President of the United States of America.” Tuesday, January 27, 2004.
108. Siddur Sim Shalom: A Prayer Book for Shabbat, Festivals, and Weekdays. Edited,
with translations, by Rabbi Jules Harlow (New York: The Rabbinical
Assembly, The United Synagogue of America, 1985), 415; David Golinkin,
ed., The Responsa of Professor Louis Ginzberg (New York: 1906), 54–55; Festival
Prayer Book (New York: 1927), 201; Sabbath and Festival Prayer Book (New
York: 1946), 130.
109. See The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, “The Family: A Proc-
lamation to the World” (September 23, 1995).
110. “It is not a time for integration; it is a time for us to separate from our former slave-
masters. . . .” FinalCall.com News, “Exclusive Interview with Minister Louis
Farrakhan” (December 2007). (Emphasis added.)
111. Louis Farrakhan, “A Vision for America.”
112. Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, 126.
113. Ibid., 38.
114. Conrad Cherry, “Challenges Since Mid-Century.” God’s New Israel: Religious
Interpretations of American Destiny. Ed. idem. Rev. ed. (Chapel Hill: Univer-
sity of North Carolina Press, 1998), 318.
115. John O’Sullivan, “America’s Identity Crisis,” National Review 46 (November
21, 1994): 36.
116. Roland Robertson, Globalization: Social Theory and Global Culture (London:
Sage, 1992), 8.
117. Anthony Giddens, The Consequences of Modernity (Cambridge: Polity, 1990), 64.
118. Charles O. Lerche, “The Conflicts of Globalization.” International Journal of
Peace Studies 1.3 (January 1998): 47–66.
119. Fiona Robinson. “Rethinking Ethics in an Era of Globalization.” Sussex
Papers in International Relations no. 2 (January 1996): 4.
120. Sacvan Bercovitch, Rites of Assent: Transformations in the Symbolic Construction
of America (New York: Routledge, 1993).
121. “Theodore Roosevelt: The Nobel Peace Prize 1906.” See http://www.
nobelprize.org/nobel_prizes/peace/laureates/1906/roosevelt-bio.html.
(Accessed November 10, 2014.)
122. The Letters of Theodore Roosevelt, vol. 8, 853. Cited by Greg Russell, “Theodore
Roosevelt, Geopolitics, and Cosmopolitan Ideals.” Review of International
Studies 32 (2006): 541–559 [557].
123. Theodore Roosevelt, The Works of Theodore Roosevelt. National ed., Ed. Her-
man Hagedorn (New York: Scribner, 1926), vol. 15, 268–269. Qtd. in Greg
Russell, “Theodore Roosevelt, Geopolitics, and Cosmopolitan Ideals,” 557.
124. ‘Abdu’l-Baha, The Secret of Divine Civilization (Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publish-
ing Trust, 1990), 64–65.
125. Pope John XXIII, “Pacem in Terris: Encyclical of Pope John XXIII on Estab-
lishing Universal Peace in Truth, Justice, Charity, and Liberty, April 11,
1963.” The Pope Speaks 9 (1963), 13–48 [13].

Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redefined America’s World Role 385
126. Universal House of Justice, The Promise of World Peace (Haifa: Baha’i World
Centre, October 1985), 2.
127. Ibid., 4.
128. John Paul II, “Meeting with the President of the United States of America,
Mr. Ronald Reagan. Address of John Paul II.” Vizcaya Museum, Miami.
Thursday, September 10, 1987.
129. Martin Luther King, Jr., “The World House.” Where Do We Go from Here:
Chaos or Community? (Boston: Beacon Press, 1968).
130. Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baha’u’llah, 193.
131. Locke, John. “Second Treatise of Civil Government.” Two Treatises of
Government (1690) Chapter V, “Of Property,” Section 49. See http://
thefederalistpapers.integratedmarket.netdna-cdn.com/wp-content/
uploads/2012/12/Two-Treatises-of-Government-by-John-Locke.pdf. (See
p. 112). (Accessed November 16, 2014.) John Locke, “Second Treatise of
Civil Government.” Two Treatises of Government (1690), n 49).
132. William J. Clinton, Forty-second President of the United States, “Introduc-
tion,” in Albright, The Mighty and the Almighty, ix–xii [xii].
133. Daniele Archibugi, The Global Commonwealth of Citizens: Toward Cosmopolitan
Democracy (Princeton and Oxford: Princeton University Press, 2008), xiv.
134. Preamble, Constitution of the United States of America.
135. Locke, John. “Second Treatise of Civil Government.” Two Treatises of Govern-
ment (1690) Chapter V, “Of Property,” Section 49.
136. James P. Moore, Jr., Prayer in America: A Spiritual History of Our Nation (New
York: Doubleday, 2007), 452.
137. Moore, Prayer in America: A Spiritual History of Our Nation, 467.
138. Moore, Prayer in America: A Spiritual History of Our Nation, 452.
139. Moore, Prayer in America: A Spiritual History of Our Nation, 452. This prayer
is reprinted in Alison Rostankowski, Judy Ravitz, Duane Huey, “Welcome
Letter.” Prayer in America: Community Resource Guide. Ed. Alison Ros-
tankowski (Davenport, IA: Duncan Group for PBS Television, 2007), 1–2
[2]. See http://outreachextensions.com/docs/Prayer_In_America_Comm_
Resource_Guide.pdf. (Accessed November 24, 2014.)
140. Carl Sagan, Cosmos (New York: Ballantine Books, 2013 [1980]), 230.

Figure 13.3. The Great Seal of the United States. Author and publisher: Otto Svend-
sen, Baltimore, c. 1941.
(Public domain. Library of Congress. See http://memory.loc.gov/cgi-bin/query/
r?ammem/rbpebib:@field(NUMBER+@band(rbpe+0320250d)). Accessed January
12, 2015.

References
Aaron, David H. “Early Rabbinic Exegesis on Noah’s Son Ham and the So-Called
‘Hamitic Myth’.” Journal of the American Academy of Religion 63 (1995): 721–759.
Aberbach, David. “Nationalism, Reform Judaism and the Hebrew Prayer Book.”
Nations and Nationalism 12.1 (January 2006): 139–159.
‘Abdu’l-Baha. ‘Abdu’l-Baha on Divine Philosophy. Ed. Isabel Fraser Chamberlain. Bos-
ton: The Tudor Press, 1917.
‘Abdu’l-Baha. A Traveler’s Narrative Written to Illustrate the Episode of the Báb. Trans.
Edward G. Browne, 2 vols. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1891. Vol. 2.
‘Abdu’l-Baha. Paris Talks: Addresses Given by ‘Abdu’l-Baha in Paris in 1911–1912. 11th
ed. London: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1969.
‘Abdu’l-Baha. “Prayer for America.” Baha’i Prayers: A Selection of Prayers Revealed by
Baha’u’llah, the Báb, and ‘Abdu’l-Baha. Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1991.
25.
‘Abdu’l-Baha. “A Prayer for the Confirmation of the American Government: Revealed
about the Year 1900.” (English translation.) Star of the West 74.6 (June 24, 1918),
75. See image at http://en.bahaitext.org/File:SW_v9no6pg3.jpg. The original
Arabic text is available online. See http://reference.bahai.org/fa/t/ab/MA2/ma2-
313.html#pg313. (Accessed November 10, 2014.)
‘Abdu’l-Baha. Promulgation of Universal Peace. 2nd ed. Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing
Trust, 1982.
‘Abdu’l-Baha. The Secret of Divine Civilization. Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust,
1990.
‘Abdu’l-Baha. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Baha. Compiled by the Research
Department of the Universal House of Justice. Translated by Marzieh Gail et al.
Haifa: Baha’i World Centre, 1982 [1978].
Ahmad, Imam Abu Laith Luqman. “Islam American Style.” 2004. See hypertext
version at http://www.islamicity.com/articles/Articles.asp?ref=IC0412-2555.
(Accessed September 20, 2014.)
Ahmadinejad, Mahmoud. “Autobiography. 2006/08/08.” Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s
Personal Memos (August 8, 2006). [Blog.] Formerly online at http://www.ahma-
dinejad.ir/en/. See now http://forums.randi.org/showthread.php?t=61640.
(Accessed September 20, 2014.)
Albright, Madeleine, with Bill Woodward, The Mighty and the Almighty: Reflections on
America, God, and World Affairs (New York: HarperCollins, 2006).
Alexander, Michael. “The Meaning of American Jewish History.” Jewish Quarterly
Review 96.3 (2006): 423–432.
Alexander, Thomas G. Things in Earth and Heaven: The Life and Times of Wilford Wood-
ruff, a Mormon Prophet. Salt Lake City: Signature Books, 1991.

388 References
Allen, James B. “The Significance of Joseph Smith’s ‘First Vision’ in Mormon
Thought.” Dialogue: A Journal of Mormon Thought 1.3 (Autumn 1966): 29–44.
Alwani, Zainab. “Introduction of Muslim Articles Editor.” Special Issue: Judaism and
Islam in America. Ed. Zainab Alwani and Rabbi Burton L. Visotzky. The Muslim
World 104.4 (October 2014): 385–388.
Alwani, Zainab. “Maqa¯s.id Qur’a¯niyya: A Methodology on Evaluating Modern Chal-
lenges and Fiqh al-Aqalliyya¯t.” Special Issue: Judaism and Islam in America. Ed.
Zainab Alwani and Rabbi Burton L. Visotzky. The Muslim World 104.4 (October
2014): 465–487.
American Foreign Press. “Ahmadinejad: Britain, Israel, US to ‘vanish like the
pharaohs’.” (December 20, 2005). See http://www.hindunet.org/hvk/arti-
cles/1206/180.html. (Accessed September 20, 2014.)
American Jewish Historical Society. “Items Related to New York Congregation.”
Publications of the American Jewish Historical Society 27 (1920): 34–37.
Amstutz, Mark R. “Faith-Based NGOs and U.S. Foreign Policy.” The Influence of Faith:
Religious Groups and U.S. Foreign Policy. Ed. Eliott Abrams. Lanham: Rowman and
Littlefield, 2001. 175–187.
Angrosino, Michael. “Civil Religion Redux.” Anthropological Quarterly 75.2 (2002):
239–267.
Ansari, Ali M. “Iran and the US in the Shadow of 9/11: Persia and the Persian Ques-
tion Revisited.” Iranian Studies 39.2 (June 2006): 155–170.
Anti-Defamation League, “Warith Deen Mohammed Condemns the Nation of
Islam.” August 14, 2007. See http://archive.adl.org/main_nation_of_islam/wd_
mohammed_noi.html#.VAS6L2RdVDI. (Accessed September 20, 2014.)
Archibugi, Daniele. The Global Commonwealth of Citizens: Toward Cosmopolitan Democ-
racy. Princeton and Oxford: Princeton University Press, 2008.
“Aryan Nations.” Formerly online at http://www.aryan-nations.org. (No access on
October 19, 2014.)
“Aryan Nations Church of Jesus Christ Christian.” Formerly online at http://www.
aryannations.org. (No access on October 19, 2014.)
Associated Press. “Former Nation of Islam Leader Dies.” USA Today (September 9,
2008). (No access on October 19, 2014.) See now: C. Gerald Fraser, “Obituary:
Elijah Muhammad Dead; Black Muslim Leader, 77.” New York Times (February 26,
1975). See http://www.nytimes.com/learning/general/onthisday/bday/1007.
html. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Auchincloss, Louis. Woodrow Wilson. New York: Viking Penguin, 2000.
Awad, Nihad. “ISIS Is Not Just Un-Islamic, It Is Anti-Islamic,” Time (September 5,
2014). See http://time.com/3273873/stop-isis-islam/. (Accessed November 16,
2014.)
Baha’i International Community. “Baha’i Shrines Chosen as World Heritage Sites.”
See http://news.bahai.org/story/642. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Baha’i International Community. “The Baha’i Faith.” See http://info.bahai.org.
(Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Baha’i International Community. “The Baha’i World Community.” See http://info.
bahai.org/bahai-world-community.html. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Baha’i International Community. “Closed Doors: Iran’s Campaign to Deny Higher
Education to Baha’is.” See http://denial.bahai.org. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Baha’i International Community, “Contributing to an Ever-Advancing Civilization:
The Baha’i International Community and the United Nations” (May 22, 2014).

References 389
Third Nishan Forum on World Civilizations, Shandong University, Jinan, China.
See
https://www.bic.org/statements/Contributing-Ever-Advancing-Civilization-
Bahai-International-Community-and-United-Nations. (Accessed November 16,
2014.)
Baha’i International Community. The Search for Values in an Age of Transition (New
York: October 2005), par. 15(c). See http://statements.bahai.org/05-1002.htm.
(Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Baha’i International Community. “Sustainable Development and the Human Spirit.”
See http://www.bic-un.bahai.org/92-0604.htm. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Baha’i World Centre. “The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: Its Place in Baha’i Literature.” The Baha’i
World. Haifa: Baha’i World Centre, 1993.
Baha’u’llah, The Hidden Words of Baha’u’llah. Wilmette: Baha’i Publishing Trust,
1985.
Baha’u’llah. The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book. Haifa: Baha’i World Centre, 1992.
Baha’u’llah. “Queen Victoria.” The Summons of the Lord of Hosts. Haifa: Baha’i World
Centre, 2002.
Baha’u’llah. “The Tablet of Unity.” Lawh-i Ittihád. Trans. Moojan Momen. Provisional
translation. See http://bahai-library.com/provisionals/ittihad.html. (Accessed
October 19, 2014.)
Baha’u’llah. Tablets of Baha’u’llah Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Wilmette: Baha’i
Publishing Trust, 1978.
Barkun, Michael. “Christian Identity: History, Beliefs, Practices” and “Christian
Identity: Theological Exchanges, Current Issues.” Handbook of Religion: A Chris-
tian Engagement with Traditions, Teachings, and Practices. Ed. Terry C. Muck, Harold
A. Netland, Gerald R. McDermott. Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Academic, 2014.
653–657 and 658–662.
Barkun, Michael. “Racist Apocalypse: Millennialism on the Far Right.” American
Studies 31.2 (1990): 121–140.
Barkun, Michael. Religion and the Racist Right: The Origins of the Christian Identity Move-
ment. Chapel Hill, NC: University of North Carolina Press, 1997.
Barlow, Philip L. “Chosen Land, Chosen People: Religious and American Exception-
alism among the Mormons.” Review of Faith & International Affairs 10.2 (Summer
2012): 51–58.
Barone, Michael. “A Place Like No Other.” Special issue: Defining America: Why the
U.S. Is Unique. U.S. News and World Report (June 28, 2004).
Barreiro, J., ed. Indian Roots of American Democracy. Ithaca, NY: Northeast Indian
Quarterly (1988).
Barrett, David B., ed. World Christian Encyclopedia: A Comparative Study of Churches
and Religions in the Modern World, A.D. 1900–2000. Oxford and New York: Oxford
University Press, 1982.
Beeman, William O. The “Great Satan” vs. the “Mad Mullahs”: How the United States and
Iran Demonize Each Other. Westport, CT: Praeger, 2005.
Beeman, William O. “Images of the Great Satan: Representations of the United
States in the Iranian Revolution.” Religion and Politics in Iran: Shi’ism from Quietism
to Revolution. Ed. Nikki R. Keddie. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 1983,
191–217.
Beers, Charlotte. “Remarks at the National Defense University” (September 18,
2002). U.S. Department of State. See http://2001-2009.state.gov/r/us/18199.
htm. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)

390 References
Beier, J. Marshall. “Forgetting, Remembering, and Finding Indigenous Peoples in
International Relations.” Indigenous Diplomacies. Ed. J. Marshall Beier. New York:
Palgrave Macmillan, 2009. 11–27.
Bellah, Robert N. “Civil Religion in America.” Special Issue: Religion in America.
Dædalus: Journal of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences 96.1 (Winter 1967):
1–21. Reprinted in idem, Beyond Belief: Essays on Religion in a Post-Traditionalist
World. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1991.
Bellah, Robert N. “Foreword.” Richard T. Hughes, Myths America Lives By. Cham-
paign: University of Illinois Press, 2004.
Bellah, Robert N. “Religion in the Public Sphere: Is a Global Civil Religion Possible?” See
http://blogs.ssrc.org/tif/2007/12/24/is-a-global-civil-religion-possible/. (Accessed
October 19, 2014.)
Benedict XVI. “Address of His Holiness Benedict XVI, ‘Rotunda’ Hall of the Pope
John Paul II Cultural Center of Washington, D.C.” (Thursday, April 17, 2008).
See http://www.vatican.va/holy_father/benedict_xvi/speeches/2008/april/doc-
uments/hf_ben-xvi_spe_20080417_other-religions_en.html. (Accessed October
19, 2014.)
Beneke, Chris. Beyond Toleration: The Religious Origins of American Pluralism. New York:
Oxford University Press, 2006.
Benson, Ezra Taft. “God’s Hand in Our Nation’s History.” Fireside address was
given at Brigham Young University on March 28, 1976. See http://speeches.byu.
edu/reader/reader.php?id=6125. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Berbrier, Mitch. “Impression Management for the Thinking Racist: A Case Study of
Intellectualization as Stigma Transformation in Contemporary White Suprema-
cist Discourse.” Sociological Quarterly 40.3 (1999): 411–433.
Bercovitch, Sacvan. “The Myth of America.” Puritan Origins of the American Self. New
Haven: Yale University Press, 1986. 136–186.
Bercovitch, Sacvan. “Rhetoric as Authority: Puritanism, the Bible, and the Myth of
America.” Social Science Information 211 (January 1982): 5–17.
Bercovitch, Sacvan. The Rites of Assent: Transformations in the Symbolic Construction of
America. New York: Routledge, 1993.
Berlant, Lauren Gail. The Anatomy of National Fantasy: Hawthorne, Utopia, and Everyday
Life. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1991.
Berman, Lila Corwin. “Mission to America: The Reform Movement’s Missionary
Experiments, 1919–1960.” Religion and American Culture 13.2 (Summer 2003):
205–239.
Bernardin, Joseph Cardinal. A Moral Vision of America. Ed. John P. Langan. Washing-
ton, DC: Georgetown University Press, 1998.
Beyer, Peter. Religion and Globalization. London: Sage, 1994.
Blaya, Joaquin. “Testimony of Joaquin Blaya, Broadcasting Board of Governors,
Before the Subcommittee on the Middle East and South Asia Committee on For-
eign Affairs. May 16, 2007. Formerly online at http://foreignaffairs.house.gov/
sub_press_display.asp?sub_press=7&id=50. (Accessed January 25, 2009). (No
access on October 19, 2014.)
Bloom, Harold. The American Religion: The Emergence of the Post-Christian Nation. New
York: Simon and Schuster, 1992.
Blount, Marcellus. “The Preacherly Text: African American Poetry and Vernacular
Performance.” PMLA: Publications of the Modern Language Association of America
107.3 (May 1992): 582–593.

References 391
Bonham, G. Matthew, and Daniel Heradstveit. “The ‘Axis of Evil’ Metaphor and the
Restructuring of Iranian Views Toward the US.” Vaseteh—Journal of the European
Society for Iranian Studies 1.1 (2005): 89–106.
Bottoms, Pam. “The Controversial, Subversive ‘Broken Tongue’ of Paul Lawrence
Dunbar.” Midwestern Miscellany 34 (Spring/Fall 2006): 6–26.
Brack, Gene. The Diplomacy of Racism: Manifest Destiny and Mexico, 1821–1848. St.
Charles, MO: Forum Press, 1974.
Brack, Gene M. Mexico Views Manifest Destiny, 1821–1846: An Essay on the Origins of the
Mexican War. Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press, 1975.
Bringhurst, Newell G. Saints, Slaves and Blacks: The Changing Place of Black People within
Mormonism. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1981.
British Broadcasting Corporation News. “Iran’s President Launches Weblog.”
August 14, 2006. See http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/middle_east/4790005.stm.
(Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Broadcasting Board of Governors. “An Organization of U.S. International Broad-
casters.” Formerly online at http://www.bbg.gov/bbg_aboutus.cfm. (No access
on October 19, 2014.) See now http://www.bbg.gov/broadcasters/. (Accessed
October 19, 2014.)
Brooke, John L. The Refiner’s Fire: The Making of Mormon Cosmology, 1644–1844. New
York: Cambridge University Press, 1994.
Brown, Delwin. “Limitation and Ingenuity: Radical Historicism and the Nature of
Tradition.” Tradition and Theories of Tradition: An International Discourse. Ed. Sieg-
fried Wiedenhofer. Piscataway, NJ: Transaction Publishers, 2006. 213–228.
Brown, Chief Robert (a.k.a. Anahalihs [“Great Vines”], Bear Clan Chief of the Oneida
Tribe; Cultural Advisor, Sovereign Oneida Nation of Wisconsin). The Great Law
of Peace. Interlinear Oneida transcription and English translation. Translated by
Chief Brown and Clifford F. Abbott (University of Wisconsin, Green Bay) and
edited by Randy Cornelius (Tehahuko’tha). See http://www.oneidanation.org/
uploadedFiles/Kayantlako-1-O-E-ed.pdf
and
http://www.oneidanation.org/
uploadedFiles/Kayantlako-2-O-E-ed.pdf. (Accessed November 29, 2014.)
Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U.S. 483 (1954) (overruling Plessy v. Ferguson [1896]).
Browne, Edward Granville. “Introduction.” In ‘Abdu’l-Baha. A Traveler’s Narrative
Written to Illustrate the Episode of the Báb. Trans. Edward G. Browne, 2 vols. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press, 1891. Vol. 2.
Bruce, Steve. The Rise and Fall of the New Christian Right: Conservative Protestant Politics
in America, 1978–1988. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1988.
Brownson, Orestes. The American Republic: Its Constitution, Tendencies, and Destiny. New
York: P. O’Shea, 1866. See http://terrenceberres.com/broame.html. (Accessed
October 19, 2014.)
Brownson, Orestes. “Mission of America.” The Works of Orestes A. Brownson. Ed.
Henry F. Brownson. Detroit: T. Nourse, 1884. Vol. 11: 551–584.
Buchanan, Patrick J. Suicide of a Superpower: Will America Survive to 2025? New York:
Thomas Dunne Books, 2011.
Buck, Christopher. “‘Abdu’l-Baha’s 1912 Howard University Speech: A Civil War Myth
for Interracial Emancipation.” ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s Journey West: The Course of Human Soli-
darity. Ed. Negar Mottahedeh. New York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2013. Pp. 111–144.
Buck, Christopher. “Alain Locke.” American Writers: A Collection of Literary Biographies.
Supplement XIV. Ed. Jay Parini. Farmington Hills, MI: Scribner’s Reference/The
Gale Group, 2004. 195–219.

392 References
Buck, Christopher. “Alain Locke: Race Leader, Social Philosopher, Baha’i Pluralist.”
Special Issue: Alain Locke: Dean of the Harlem Renaissance and Baha’i Race-
Amity Leader. World Order 36.3 (2005): 7–36
Buck, Christopher. “Baha’i Faith and Social Action.” Encyclopedia of Activism and
Social Justice. Ed. Gary L. Anderson and Kathryn G. Herr. Thousand Oaks, CA:
Sage Publications, 2007. Vol. 1, 208–213.
Buck, Christopher. “Baha’i: History, Beliefs, Practices,” and “Baha’i: Theological
Exchanges, Current Issues.” Handbook of Religion: A Christian Engagement with Tra-
ditions, Teachings, and Practices. Ed. Terry C. Muck, Harold A. Netland, and Gerald
R. McDermott. Grand Rapids, MI: Baker Academic, 2014. 714–719 and 720–724.
Buck, Christopher. “Discovering” [the Qur’an]. The Blackwell Companion to the Qur’an.
Ed. Andrew Rippin. Oxford: Blackwell, 2006. 18–35.
Buck, Christopher. “Deganawida, the Peacemaker.” American Writers, Supplement
XXVI. Ed. Jay Parini. Farmington Hills, MI: Charles Scribner’s Sons/The Gale
Group, 2015. (Forthcoming.)
Buck, Christopher. “The Eschatology of Globalization: Baha’u’llah’s Multiple-
Messiahship Revisited.” Studies in Modern Religions, Religious Movements and the
Babi-Baha’i Faiths. Ed. Moshe Sharon. Numen Book Series: Studies in the History of
Religions, 104. Leiden: Brill Academic Publishers, 2004. 143–178.
Buck, Christopher. “50 Baha’i Principles of Unity: From Individual to International
Relations.” BahaiTeachings.org. See http://bahaiteachings.org/50-bahai-princi-
ples-of-unity-from-individual-to-international-relations. (Accessed November 1,
2014.)
Buck, Christopher. “Fifty Baha’i Principles of Unity: A Paradigm of Social Salvation.”
Baha’i Studies Review 18 (2012). (Published in 2015.)
Buck, Christopher. “Islam and Minorities: The Case of the Baha’is.” Studies in Con-
temporary Islam 5.1–2 (Spring/Fall 2003): 83–106. Proceedings of the Twentieth
Annual Conference of the American Council for the Study of Islamic Societies (ACSIS),
University of Victoria, Victoria, British Columbia, May 2–3, 2003. (Published
June 2005.)
Buck, Christopher. “Laying a Great Man to Rest—the Final Interment of Alain Locke,”
BahaiTeachings.org (October 7, 2014); idem, “Sing the Ballad of Alain Locke—
Burying the Black Plato,” BahaiTeachings.org (October 10, 2014). See http://
bahaiteachings.org/laying-a-great-man-to-rest-final-interment-of-alain-locke and
http://bahaiteachings.org/sing-the-ballad-of-alain-locke-burying-the-black-plato.
Buck, Christopher. “Melting Pot.” Encyclopedia of Race, Ethnicity, and Society. Ed. Rich-
ard T. Schaefer. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 2008. 885–888.
Buck, Christopher. “‘Never Again’: Kevin Gover’s Apology for the Bureau of Indian
Affairs.” Wicazo Sa Review: A Journal of Native American Studies 21.1 (2006):
97–126.
Buck, Christopher. “Religious Minority Rights.” The Islamic World. Ed. Andrew Rip-
pin. London/New York: Routledge, 2008. 638–655.
Buck, Christopher. Paradise and Paradigm: Key Symbols in Persian Christianity and the
Baha’i Faith. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1999.
Buck, Christopher. “Philosophy of Democracy: America, Race, and World Peace”
(Chapter Ten). Alain Locke: Faith and Philosophy. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2005.
241–266.
Buck, Christopher. “Plessy v. Ferguson.” Encyclopedia of Race, Ethnicity, and Society. Ed.
Richard T. Schaefer. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, 2008. 1048–1051.

References 393
Buck, Christopher. “Princeton University: ‘Fifty Baha’i Principles of Unity’.” See
http://bahaiteachings.org/princeton-university-fifty-bahai-principles-of-unity.
(Accessed November 1, 2014.)
Buck, Christopher. “Religious Myths of America” (Michigan State University course
syllabus). American Academy of Religion, “Syllabus Project,” s.v. “Religions of
America” and “Comparative Studies of Religion.” See http://www.aarweb.org/
Programs/Syllabus_Project/browse.asp.
Buck, Christopher. “A Unique Eschatological Interface: Baha’u’llah and Cross-Cul-
tural Messianism.” In Iran. Ed. Peter Smith. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 1986.
157–179.
Buck, Christopher, and Betty J. Fisher, ed. and intro. “Alain Locke: Four Talks
Redefining Democracy, Education, and World Citizenship.” World Order 38.3
(2006/2007): 21–41.
Bull, Malcolm and Keith Lockhart. Seeking a Sanctuary: Seventh-day Adventism and the
American Dream. Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press, 2006.
Burghardt, Walter J. “Foreword.” John Courtney Murray. We Hold These Truths: Catho-
lic Reflections on the American Proposition. Reprinted. Lanham MD: Rowman and
Littlefield, 2005 [1960].
Burrows, Mark S. “The Catholic Revision of an American Myth: The Eschatology of
Orestes Brownson as an Apology of American Catholicism.” Catholic Historical
Review 76 (1990): 18–43.
Burton, Richard. Pilgrimage to Al-Madinah and Meccah. 1855. Chapter 30. See
http://ebooks.adelaide.edu.au/b/burton/richard/b97p/chapter30.html#2.
(Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Bush, George W. “Text of President Bush’s 2002 State of the Union Address.” Office
of the Press Secretary. White House press release (January 29, 2002). See http://
www.washingtonpost.com/wp-srv/onpolitics/transcripts/sou012902.htm.
(Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Bush, Lester E., Jr. “Mormonism’s Negro Doctrine: An Historical Overview.” Dia-
logue 8 (Spring 1973): 11–68.
Bushman, Richard L. Joseph Smith and the Beginnings of Mormonism. Urbana: Univer-
sity of Illinois Press, 1984.
Buss, Doris and Didi Herman. Globalizing Family Values: The Christian Right in Interna-
tional Politics. Minneapolis/London: University of Minnesota Press, 2003.
Butler, Gregory S. “Visions of a Nation Transformed: Modernity and Ideology in Wil-
son’s Political Thought.” Journal of Church and State 39.1 (Winter 1997): 37–51.
Butler, Jennifer S. Born Again: The Christian Right Globalized. London/Ann Arbor, MI:
Pluto Press, 2006.
Callicott, J. Baird. “Natural History as Natural Religion.” Encyclopedia of Religion and
Nature. Ed. Bron Taylor and Jeffrey Kaplan. London and New York Continuum,
2005. 2:1164–1169.
Cannon, Donald Q. “King Follett Discourse.” Encyclopedia of Mormonism. New York:
Macmillan, 1992. 791–792. See http://www.lib.byu.edu/Macmillan/.
Cannon, Donald Q. “The King Follett Discourse: Joseph Smith’s Greatest Sermon
in Historical Perspective.” Brigham Young University Studies 18.2 (Winter 1978):
179–192.
Caplan, Eric. From Ideology to Liturgy: Reconstructionist Worship and American Liberal
Judaism. Monographs of the Hebrew Union College Series, no. 26. Cincinnati:
Hebrew Union College Press, 2002.

394 References
Capps Walter. The New Religious Right: Piety, Patriotism, and Politics. Columbia: Univer-
sity of South Carolina Press, 1990.
Carey, Patrick W. Orestes A. Brownson: American Religious Weathervane. Grand Rapids,
MI: Wm. B. Eerdmans, 2004.
Carey, Patrick W., ed. Orestes A. Brownson: Selected Writings. Sources of American
Spirituality. Mahwah, NJ: Paulist Press, 1991.
Carter, Ron. “Winds of Change Blowing Through the Nation of Islam.” Formerly
online at http://www.wfial.org/index.cfm?fuseaction=artWorld.article_1. (No
access on October 19, 2014.)
Central Conference of American Rabbis (CCAR). Responsa, “Reform Support for
Orthodox Institutions.” http://ccarnet.org/responsa/narr-146-148/. (Accessed
October 19, 2014.)
Central Conference of American Rabbis (CCAR). “A Statement of Principles for
Reform Judaism.” See http://ccarnet.org/rabbis-speak/platforms/statement-
principles-reform-judaism/. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Century of Light. Prepared under the direction of the Universal House of Justice.
Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 2001 (2003 printing).
Chehabi, H. E. “Sport Diplomacy between the United States and Iran.” Diplomacy
and Statecraft 12.1 (2005): 89–106.
Cherry, Conrad. God’s New Israel: Religious Interpretations of American Destiny. Ed.
idem. Rev. ed. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1998.
Chiozza, Giacomo. “Love and Hate: Anti-Americanism in the Islamic World.” Paper
prepared for presentation in the Department of Politics, New York University,
November 22, 2004. 1–58. See http://nyu.edu/gsas/dept/politics/seminars/chi-
ozza_f04.pdf. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. “The Family: A Proclamation to the
World” (September 23, 1995).
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. “2013 Statistical Report for 2014 April
General Conference.” See http://www.mormonnewsroom.org/article/2013-sta-
tistical-report-2014-april-general-conference. (Accessed December 5, 2014.)
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. “Facts and Statistics.” See http://www.
mormonnewsroom.org/facts-and-stats. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. “Plural Marriage in Kirtland and Nau-
voo.” See https://www.lds.org/topics/plural-marriage-in-kirtland-and-nauvoo.
(Accessed November 14, 2014.)
Church of the Holy Trinity v. United States, 143 U.S. 457 (1892).
Churchill, Ward. “A Little Matter of Genocide: Sam Gill’s Mother Earth, Colonialism
and the Appropriation of Indigenous Spiritual Tradition in Academia.” Fantasies
of the Master Race: Literature, Cinema, and the Colonization of American Indians. Ed. M.
Annette Jaimes. Monroe, ME: Common Courage Press, 1992. 187–213.
Clark, E. Douglas. The Grand Design: America from Columbus to Zion. Salt Lake City:
Deseret, 1992.
Claussen, Martin P., ed. The Journal of the Senate, including The Journal of the Executive
Proceedings of the Senate, John Adams Administration, 1797–1801, Volume 1: Fifth
Congress, First Session; March–July, 1797. Wilmington, DE: Michael Glazier,
Inc., 1977.
Clegg, Claude Andrew, III. An Original Man: The Life and Times of Elijah Muhammad.
New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1997.

References 395
Clinton, William J. Forty-second President of the United States, “Introduction.” In
Madeleine Albright (with Bill Woodward), The Mighty and the Almighty: Reflections
on America, God, and World Affairs. New York: HarperCollins, 2006. ix–xii.
Comparet, “Pastor” Bertrand L. “Man and Beast.” See http://www.aryan-nation.
org/comparet/man_beast.htm. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Cone, James H. Risks of Faith: The Emergence of a Black Theology of Liberation, 1968–
1998. Boston: Beacon Press, 2000.
Corsbie-Massay, Charisse L’Pree. “International MTV and Globalization.” Formerly
online at http://themediamademecrazy.com/papers-projects/mit-cms/mit-cms-
internationalmtv. (No access on October 19, 2014.)
Council on American-Islamic Relations. CAIR. “Islamophobia and Anti-American-
ism Book Excerpts: Islamophobia.” 2008. Formerly online at http://www.cair.
com/Issues/Islamophobia/Islamophobia.aspx. (No access on October 19, 2014.)
Cowan, Douglas E. “Theologizing Race: The Construction of ‘Christian Identity’.”
Religion and the Creation of Race and Ethnicity: An Introduction. Ed. Craig Prentiss.
New York: New York University Press, 2003. 112–123.
Creativity Movement. “CREATIVITY: Creed and Program.” See http://creativi-
tymovement.net/creator_library/english/rvtr-40.html. (Accessed October 19,
2014.)
Creativity Movement. Little White Book. Formerly online at http://creativitymove-
ment.net/documents/LITTLEWH.PDF.(No access on October 19, 2014.)
See
now
http://creativitymovement.net/creator_library/english/lwb.html.
(Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Csábi, Szilvia. “The Concept of America in the Puritan Mind.” Language and Literature
10.3 (2001): 195–209.
Dalai Lama. “Buddhism, Asian Values and Democracy.” Journal of Democracy 10.1
(January 1999): 3–7. Reprinted: The Global Divergence of Democracies. Ed. Larry
Diamond and Marc F. Plattner. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 2001.
18–22; World Religions and Democracy. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins Press, 2005.
70–74; The Pluralist Paradigm: Democracy and Religion in the 21st Century. Ed. Sondra
Myers and Patrice Brodeur. Scranton, PA: University of Scranton Press, 2007.
Dalai Lama. Constitution of Tibet. Delhi: Bureau of His Holiness the Dalai Lama,
1963.
Dalai Lama. “Dalai Lama Encourages ‘Self-confident’ US Global Role” (video). See
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LwvGwgIBRvg. (Accessed November 20,
2014.)
Dalai Lama. “His Holiness the Dalai Lama’s Nobel Lecture, University Aula, Oslo,
December
11th,
1989.”
http://www.dalailama.com/messages/acceptance-
speeches/nobel-peace-prize. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Dalai Lama. “Remarks by His Holiness the Dalai Lama to the Members of the United
States Congress in the Rotunda of the Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., 18
April 1991.” See http://www.savetibet.org/congressional-gold-medal-ceremony-
transcripts-of-speeches/. (Accessed October 19, 2014.) Printed in Matthew E.
Bunson, ed., The Wisdom Teachings of the Dalai Lama. New York: Plume, 1997.
Dalai Lama. “Statement by His Holiness the XIV Dalai Lama on His Visit to the
United States, September 1995.” See http://fpmt.org/teachers/hhdl/speeches/
usa-95/. (Accessed October 19, 2014.) Printed in Bunson, ed., The Wisdom Teach-
ings of the Dalai Lama, 224.

396 References
Dalai Lama. The Wisdom Teachings of the Dalai Lama. Ed. Matthew E. Bunson. New
York: Plume, 1997.
Danesh, Roshan. “Internationalism and Divine Law: A Baha’i Perspective.” Journal of
Law and Religion 19.2 (2003/2004): 209–242.
Dease, Dennis Joseph. The Theological Influence of Orestes Brownson and Isaac Hecker on
John Ireland’s Americanist Ecclesiology. Ph.D. dissertation: The Catholic University
of America, 1978.
DeCaro, Louis A. Malcolm and the Cross: The Nation of Islam, Malcolm X, and Christian-
ity. New York/London: New York University Press, 1998.
Deloria, Jr., Vine. “Comfortable Fictions and the Struggle for Turf: An Essay Review
of The Invented Indian: Cultural Fictions and Government Policies.” Natives and Aca-
demics: Researching and Writing about American Indians. Ed. Devon A. Mihesuah.
Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 1998. 65–83.
Diaz, Maria del Rosario Rodriguez. “Mexico’s Vision of Manifest Destiny During the
1847 War.” Journal of Popular Culture 35.2 (Fall 2001): 41–50.
Dobratz, Betty A. “The Role of Religion in the Collective Identity of the White
Racialist Movement.” Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion 40.2 (June 2001):
287–302.
Dobratz, Betty A., and Stephanie L. Shanks. The White Separatist Movement in the
United States: “White Power, White Pride!” Boston: Johns Hopkins University Press,
2001.
Dolan, Charles. “America’s Global Communications Efforts.” Remarks to Public
Relations Society of America, National Press Club, Washington, DC (October 31,
2002). Office of Electronic Information, Bureau of Public Affairs, U.S. Depart-
ment of State. See http://2001-2009.state.gov/r/adcompd/rls/14885.htm.
(Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Dorrien, Gary. The Making of American Liberal Theology: Idealism, Realism, and Modernity,
1900–1950. Louisville, KY: Westminster John Knox Press, 2003.
Doty, William. Mythography: The Study of Myths and Rituals. Tuscaloosa: University of
Alabama Press, 2000.
Douglas, Norman. “The Sons of Lehi and the Seed of Cain: Racial Myths in Mormon
Scripture and Their Relevance to the Pacific Islands.” Journal of Religious History
8 (1974): 90–104.
Dunbar, Paul Laurence. “An Ante-Bellum Sermon.” 1895. See http://www.paullau-
rencedunbar.net/antebellumsermon.html. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Durham, Martin. “Christian Identity and the Politics of Religion.” Totalitarian Move-
ments and Political Religions 9.1 (March 2008): 79–91.
Eisenberg, Carol. “Black Muslims Seek Acceptance from Fellow Americans, Adher-
ents.” Seattle Times (January 22, 2005). See http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/
html/nationworld/2002157825_islam22.html. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Ellis, Monsignor John Tracy, ed. Documents of American Catholic History. Milwaukee,
WI: Bruce Publishing, 1956.
Ellwood, Robert S. “East Asian Religions in Today’s America.” World Religions in
America. Ed. Jacob Neusner. Louisville, KY: Westminster John Knox Press, 2000.
154–171.
Eschraghi, Armin. “‘Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy’: Some Notes on
the Báb’s Sharí‘ah (Sacred Law).” A Most Noble Pattern: Collected Essays on the Writ-
ings of the Báb, ‘Alí Muhammad Shírází (1819–1850). Ed. Todd Lawson and Omid
Ghaemmaghami. Oxford: George Ronald, 2012.

References 397
Farrakhan, Louis. “The Divine Destruction of America: Can She Avert It?” Speech deliv-
ered at Mosque Maryam, Chicago, 9 June 1996. Chicago: Final Call Online Edition.
http://www.finalcall.com/artman/publish/Minister_Louis_Farrakhan_9/article_
7595.shtml. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Farrakhan, Louis. “The Great, Life-Giving Wheel (‘Mother Plane’): ‘The New Jeru-
salem’.” (January 18, 2014.) Part 54 of “The Time and What Must Be Done”
series.
See
http://thetimetranscripts.blogspot.com/2014/01/part-54-wheel-
new-jerusalem-part-1.html. (Accessed November 23, 2014.)
Farrakhan, Louis. “Guidance for Our President and Our Nation.” (Presented Octo-
ber 14, 2012, aired on October 19, 2013.) Part 41 of “The Time and What Must
Be Done” series. See http://thetimetranscripts.blogspot.com/2013/10/part-
41-guidance-for-our-president-and.html. (Accessed November 23, 2014.)
Farrakhan, Louis. “How Satan Came Into Existence.” (Presented and aired on July
20, 2013.) Part 41 of “The Time and What Must Be Done” series. See http://the-
timetranscripts.blogspot.com/2013/07/part-28-how-satan-came-into-existence.
html. (Accessed November 23, 2014.)
Farrakhan, Louis. “Muhammad’s Economic Blueprint: Ending Poverty & Want (Part
3)—How Blacks Became A Consumer Nation, What We Must Do to Change and
Why.” (Presented February 24, 2013; aired on August 17, 2013.) Part 32 of “The
Time and What Must Be Done” series. See http://thetimetranscripts.blogspot.
com/2013/08/part-32-muhammads-economic-blueprint.html.
(Accessed
November 23, 2014.)
Farrakhan, Louis. “One Nation Under God.” (February 25, 2007.) See http://www.c-
span.org/video/?196795-1/saviours-day-speech. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Farrakhan, Louis. “Separation, Independence!” (December 7, 2013.) Part 48 of “The
Time and What Must Be Done” series. See http://thetimetranscripts.blogspot.
com/2013/12/part-48-separation-independence.html. (Accessed November 23,
2014.)
Farrakhan, Louis. “Separation, Independence!” (December 14, 2013.) Part 49
of “The Time and What Must Be Done” series. See http://thetimetranscripts.
blogspot.com/2014/01/part-50-part-49-separation-independence.html.
(Accessed November 23, 2014.)
Farrakhan, Louis. “The Shadow Government: Guidance To President Obama & The
Nation. Part III.” Part 58 of “The Time and What Must Be Done” series. Broad-
cast February 15, 2014. See http://thetimetranscripts.blogspot.com/2014/02/
part-58.html (transcript) and http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=azW_Zp1v-
dIA (video). (Accessed November 2, 2014.)
Farrakhan, Louis. “The Time And What Must Be Done: Officially transcribed cap-
tions of The Honorable Minister Louis Farrakhan’s powerful lecture series
‘The Time & What Must Be Done’.” See http://thetimetranscripts.blogspot.
com/2014/. (Accessed November 2, 2014.)
Farrakhan, Louis. “Uniting Our Ummah.” (July 28, 2014.) See http://www.final-
call.com/artman/publish/Minister_Louis_Farrakhan_9/article_101655.shtml.
(Accessed November 23, 2014.)
Farrakhan, Louis. “A Vision for America.” A Torchlight for America (1993). See http://
www.finalcall.com/artman/publish/article_4851.shtml. (Accessed October 19,
2014.)
Farrakhan, Louis. “A White Man’s Heaven Is a Black Man’s Hell.” Video. See http://
www.youtube.com/watch?v=cb8xKGaTJhg. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)

398 References
Feldberg, Michael, Karla Goldman, Scott-Martin Kosofsky, Pamela S. Nadell, Jona-
than D. Sarna, and Gary P. Zola. Three Hundred Fifty Years: An Album of American
Jewish Memory. New York: American Jewish Historical Society and the American
Jewish Archives, 2005.
Fenton, William Nelson. “Chapter 2: This Island, the World on the Turtle’s Back.”
The Great Law and the Longhouse: A Political History of the Iroquois Confederacy. Nor-
man: University of Oklahoma Press, 1998. Revision of idem, “This Island, the
World on the Turtle’s Back.” Journal of American Folklore 75, no. 298 (October–
December 1962): 283–300.
Fenton, William Nelson, ed. Parker on the Iroquois, Book III: The Constitution of the Five
Nations. Syracuse, NY: Syracuse University Press, 1968.
Fenton, William Nelson. “Seth Newhouse’s Traditional History and Constitution of
the Iroquois Confederacy.” American Philosophical Society Proceedings 93.3 (1949):
141–158.
Ferber, Abby. “Of Mongrels and Jews: The Deconstruction of Racialised Identities in
White Supremacist Discourse.” Social Identities 3 (1997): 193–208.
FinalCall.com News. “Exclusive Interview with Minister Louis Farrakhan.”
December 2007. See http://www.finalcall.com/artman/publish/Minister_Louis_
Farrakhan_9/Exclusive_Interview_with_Minister_Louis_Farrakhan_4256.shtml.
(Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Finley, Stephen C. “The Meaning of Mother in Louis Farrakhan’s ‘Mother Wheel’:
Race, Gender, and Sexuality in the Cosmology of the Nation of Islam’ UFO.” Jour-
nal of the American Academy of Religion 80.2 (June 2012): 434–465.
Fishman, Sylvia Barack. Jewish Life and American Culture. Albany, NY: State University
of New York Press, 2000.
Fishman, Sylvia Barack. Review of History Lessons: The Creation of American Jewish Heri-
tage. By Beth S. Wenger. Jewish History 27 (2013): 141–143.
Fogarty, Gerald P. “Americanism.” The New Dictionary of Catholic Social Thought. Ed.
Judith A. Dwyer. Collegeville, MN: The Liturgical Press, 1994. 39–42.
Fogarty, Gerald P. “The Vatican and the Americanist Crisis: Denis J. O’Connell,
American Agent in Rome, 1885–1903.” Miscellanea Historiae Pontificiae, 36. Rome
Universitá Gregoriana Editrice, 1974.
Foster, Michael K. “Jacob Ezra Thomas: Educator and Conservator of Iroquois Cul-
ture.” Histories of Anthropology Annual 1 (2005): 219–245.
Fradkin, Hillel. “America in Islam.” The Public Interest No. 155 (Spring 2004): 37–55.
Francis, Pope. “Pope Francis sends Message to the Americas.” Vatican Radio.
(December 11, 2013.) See http://www.news.va/en/news/pope-francis-sends-
message-to-the-americas. (Accessed November 29, 2014.)
Franklin, Benjamin, ed. Indian Treaties Printed by Benjamin Franklin, 1736–1762. Ed.
Carl Van Doren and Julian P. Boyd. Philadelphia, PA: The Historical Society of
Pennsylvania, 1938. 41–79. Text and facsimile digitized by the Oklahoma State
University Library Electronic Publishing Center, at http://earlytreaties.unl.edu/
treaty.00003.html. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Franklin, Benjamin. Not Your Usual Founding Father: Selected Readings from Benjamin
Franklin. Ed. Edmund S. Morgan. New Haven, CT: Yale University Press, 2006.
Franklin, Benjamin. “To James Parker” (Philadelphia, March 20, 1750). The Writ-
ings of Benjamin Franklin. Vol. III, 1750–1759. Collected and edited with a Life and
Introduction by Albert Henry Smyth. New York: Macmillan, 1905. 40–45.

References 399
Fraser, C. Gerald. “Obituary: Elijah Muhammad Dead; Black Muslim Leader, 77.”
New York Times (February 26, 1975). See http://www.nytimes.com/learning/gen-
eral/onthisday/bday/1007.html. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Frechette, Ann. “Democracy and Democratization among Tibetans in Exile.” Journal
of Asian Studies 66.1 (February 2007): 97–127.
Freeman, Gordon M. “The Conservative Movement and the Public Square.” Jewish
Polity and American Civil Society: Communal Agencies and Religious Movements in the
American Public Square. Ed. Alan Mittleman, Robert A. Licht, and Jonathan D.
Sarna. New York: Rowman and Littlefield, 2002. 235–260.
Friedlaender, Israel. “The Problem of Judaism in America.” Past and Present: A Collec-
tion of Jewish Essays. Cincinnati, OH: Ark Publishing Co., 1919.
Friedland, Eric L. Review of From Ideology to Liturgy: Reconstructionist Worship and
American Liberal Judaism. Monographs of the Hebrew Union College Series, no.
26. Cincinnati: Hebrew Union College Press, 2002. H-Judaic, H-Net Reviews,
June 2003. See http://www.h-net.org/reviews/showrev.php?id=7696. (Accessed
October 19, 2014.)
Frykholm, Amy Johnson. Rapture Culture: Left Behind in Evangelical America. Oxford/
New York: Oxford University Press, 2004.
Fuchs-Kreimer, Nancy. “Seventy Years After Judaism as a Civilization: Mordecai
Kaplan’s Theology and the Reconstructionist Movement.” Jewish Social Studies
12.2 (2006): 127–142.
Fulbrook, Mary. “Myth-making and National Identity: The Case of the G.D.R.”
Myths and Nationhood. Ed. Geoffrey Hosking and George Schöpflin. New York:
Routledge, 1997. 72–87.
Gaines, James R., and Karsten Prager. “Rafsanjani’s Advice to the ‘Great Satan’.” Time. May
31, 1993. See http://content.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,978611,00.
html. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Gale, Rev. William P. The Faith of Our Fathers. See http://www.aryan-nation.org/gale.
index.html. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Gale, Rev. William P. Racial and National Identity: A Sermon. See http://www.aryan-nation.
org/c_gale/racial_and_national_identity.html. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Gamble, Richard M. In Search of the City on a Hill: The Making and Unmaking of an
American Myth. New York/London: Continuum, 2012).
Gardell, Mattias. “Countdown to Armageddon: Minister Farrakhan and the Nation
of Islam in the Latter Days.” Temenos 31 (1995): 253–262.
Gardell, Mattias. In the Name of Elijah Muhammad: Louis Farrakhan and the Nation of
Islam. Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 1996.
Garr, Arnold K. Christopher Columbus: A Latter-day Saint Perspective. Provo, UT: Reli-
gious Studies Center, Brigham Young University, 1992.
Geertz, Clifford. “Religion as a Cultural System.” The Interpretation of Cultures. Ed.
idem. (New York: Basic Books, 1966). 87–125.
Gelernter, David. Americanism: The Fourth Great Western Religion. New York: Double-
day, 2007.
Gerasole, Vince (CBS). “Rare Wilmette Temple Makes Cut in ‘7 Wonders’
List.” April 30, 2007. Formerly online at http://cbs2chicago.com/local/
Baha.i.House.2.336767.html. (No access on October 19, 2014.)
Gerstle, Gary. “American Freedom, American Coercion: Immigrant Journeys in the
‘Promised Land’.” Social Compass 47.1 (2000): 63–76.

400 References
Gibson, John Arthur. Concerning the League: The Iroquois League Tradition as Dictated
in Onondaga by John Arthur Gibson. Newly Elicited, Edited and Translated by Hanni
Woodbury in Collaboration with Reg Henry and Harry Webster on the Basis of A. A.
Goldenweiser’s Manuscript. Winnipeg, Manitoba: Algonquian and Iroquoian Lin-
guistics, 1992.
Gibson, Chief John Arthur. “The Deganawiidah Legend: A Tradition of the Founding of
the League of the Five Iroquois Tribes.” English translation of text given by John Arthur
Gibson to J. N. B. Hewitt. Ed. by Abram Charles, John Buck, Sr., and Joshua Buck
(1900–1914). Trans. William N. Fenton and Simeon Gibson. 1941. National
Anthropological Archives, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC, Bureau of
American Ethnology, Nos. 1517b and 1517c.
Giddens, Anthony. The Consequences of Modernity. Cambridge: Polity, 1990.
Gill, Sam D. “The Academic Study of Religion.” Journal of the American Academy of
Religion 62 (Winter 1994): 965–975.
Gill, Sam D. Mother Earth: An American Story. Chicago: University of Chicago Press,
1987.
Ginzberg, Louis. The Responsa of Professor Louis Ginzberg. Ed. David Golinkin. Moreshet
Series, Studies in Jewish History, Literature, and Thought, Volume XVI. New
York: Jewish Theological Society Press, 1996 [1906].
Girgus, Sam B. The New Covenant: Jewish Writers and the American Idea. Chapel Hill,
NC: University of North Carolina Press, 1984.
Girgus, Sam B. “The New Covenant: The Jews and the Myth of America.” The Ameri-
can Self: Myth, Ideology, and Popular Culture. Ed. idem. Albuquerque: University of
New Mexico Press, 1981. 105–123.
Glaude, Eddie S. “Myth and African American Self-Identity.” Religion and the Creation
of Race and Ethnicity: An Introduction. Ed. Craig R. Prentiss. New York: New York
University Press, 2003.
Glauz-Todrank, Annalise E. “Race, Religion, or Ethnicity?: Situating Jews in the
American Scene.” Religion Compass 8 (2014): 303–316.
Goldenberg, David M. The Curse of Ham: Race and Slavery in Early Judaism, Christianity,
and Islam. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2003.
Goldstein, Eric L. The Price of Whiteness: Jews, Race, and American Identity. Princeton,
NJ: Princeton University Press, 2006.
Golinkin, David. “Prayers for the Government and the State of Israel Yom Haatzmaut
5766.” Insight Israel: The View from Schechter. Second Series. Jerusalem: The Schech-
ter Institute of Jewish Studies, 2006. 114–125 [121]. See http://www.schechter.
edu/insightIsrael.aspx?ID=41. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Golinkin, David, ed. The Responsa of Professor Louis Ginzberg. Moreshet Series, Stud-
ies in Jewish History, Literature, and Thought, Volume XVI. New York: Jewish
Theological Society Press, 1996 [1906].
Gover, Kevin. “Never Again.” For the videotape of this historic speech, see http://
christopherbuck.com/video/Kevin_Gover_BIA_Speech.mpg. (Accessed Decem-
ber 21, 2014.)
Graham, Troy. “Supremacist Pleads to Sale of Stolen Guns: Federal Investigators
Also Are Examining Charges that He Gave an Informant an Explosive Com-
pound.” Philadelphia Inquirer. May 5, 2006. P. 1.
Grant, Susan-Mary. “Making History: Myth and the Construction of American
Nationhood.” Myths and Nationhood. Ed. Geoffrey Hosking and George Schöpflin.
New York: Routledge, 1997. 88–106.

References 401
Greenberg, Gershon. “The Significance of America in David Einhorn’s Conception
of History.” American Jewish Historical Quarterly 63 (December 1973): 160–184.
Grinde, Donald A., Jr. The Iroquois and the Founding of the American Nation. San Fran-
cisco: Indian Historian Press, 1977.
Grinde, Donald A., Jr. “Sauce for the Goose: Demand and Definitions for Proof
Regarding the Iroquois and Democracy.” William and Mary Quarterly 53.3 (July
1996): 621–636.
Grinde, Donald A., Jr., and Bruce E. Johansen. Exemplar of Liberty: Native America and
the Evolution of Democracy. Native American Politics Series, No. 3. Los Angeles:
American Indian Studies Center, University of California, 1991.
Grolin, Daniel. Review of Religious Myths and Visions of America. Baha’i Studies Review
17 (2011): 195–197.
Gualtieri, Antonio R. “Founders and Apostates.” Journal of the American Academy of
Religion 61.1 (Spring 1993): 101–122.
Gurock, Jeffrey S., and Jacob J. Schachter, A Modern Heretic and a Traditional Com-
munity: Mordecai M. Kaplan, Orthodoxy and American Judaism. New York: Columbia
University Press, 1997.
Hagy, James William. This Happy Land: The Jews of Colonial and Antebellum Charleston.
Judaic Studies Series. Unnumbered. Tuscaloosa: University of Alabama Press,
1993.
Hale, Van. “The Doctrinal Impact of the King Follett Discourse.” Brigham Young Uni-
versity Studies 18.2 (Winter 1978): 209–225.
Halim, Fachrizal. “Pluralism of American Muslims and the Challenge of Assimila-
tion.” Journal of Muslim Minority Affairs 26.2 (August 2006): 235–244.
Hanson, Louise G. “Columbus, Christopher.” Encyclopedia of Mormonism. New York:
Macmillan, 1992. 294–296. See http://contentdm.lib.byu.edu/cdm/compound-
object/collection/EoM/id/4391/show/5572. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Harder, Joseph D. “Heal Their Land”: Evangelical Political Theology from the Great
Awakening to the Moral Majority. Ph.D. dissertation; Lincoln, NB: University of
Nebraska, 2014.
Harding, Vincent and Daisaku Ikeda. America Will Be! Conversations on Hope, Freedom,
and Democracy. Cambridge, MA: Dialogue Path Press, 2013.
Harvey, Paul. “‘A Servant of Servants Shall He Be’: The Construction of Race in
American Religious Mythologies.” Religion and the Creation of Race and Ethnicity: An
Introduction. Ed. Craig R. Prentiss. New York: New York University Press, 2003.
13–27.
Hauptman, Laurence M. Chapter Three, “Speculations on the Constitution.” Tribes
and Tribulations: Misconceptions about American Indians and their Histories. Albuquer-
que: University of New Mexico Press, 1995.
Hawkins, Chester Lee. “Selective Bibliography on African-Americans and Mormons,
1830–1990.” Dialogue 25 (Winter 1992): 113–131.
Heitala, Thomas. Manifest Destiny: Anxious Aggrandizement in Late Jacksonian America.
Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1985.
“Herald of Truth.” Archived broadcasts. See http://www.kingidentity.com/radioar-
chives/. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Herberg, Will. Protestant–Catholic–Jew: An Essay in American Religious Sociology. Chi-
cago: University Of Chicago Press, 1983 [1955].
Herrera, Robert A. Orestes Brownson: Sign of Contradiction. Wilmington, DE: ISI
Books, 1999.

402 References
Herrera, Robert. “Orestes Brownson’s Vision of America.” Modern Age 43.2 (Spring
2001): 133–145.
Hertzke, Allen. Representing God in Washington: The Role of Religious Lobbies in the Amer-
ican Polity. Knoxville: University of Tennessee Press, 1988.
Hewitt, John Napoleon Brinton. Constitution of the Confederacy by Dekanawidah, col-
lected and translated from Mohawk by Chief Seth Newhouse 1898. Manuscript 1343,
Smithsonian Institution National Anthropological Archives, “copied 1936.”
“Hezbollah Leader Nasrallah Supports Intifadah, Vows ‘Death to America’.” Aired
on Beirut Al-Manar television, September 27, 2002.
Historica Foundation of Canada. “Peacemaker.” Series: History by the Minute.
Historica Minutes: First Nations. See https://www.historicacanada.ca/content/
heritage-minutes/peacemaker?media_type=41&. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Hodgson, Godfrey. The Myth of American Exceptionalism. New Haven, CT/London:
Yale University Press, 2009.
Hoge, Dean. “Theological Views of America among Protestants.” Sociological Analysis
37.2 (1976): 127–139.
Holcombe, Randall G. “Constitutional Theory and the Constitutional History of
Colonial America.” The Independent Review 3.1 (Summer 1998): 21–36.
Hoonaard, Deborah K. van den, and Will C. van den Hoonaard. The Equality of Women
and Men: The Experience of the Baha’i Community of Canada. Winnipeg, MB: Art
Bookbindery, 2006.
Horsman, Reginald. Race and Manifest Destiny: The Origins of American Racial Anglo-
Saxonism. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1981.
Howard-Pitney, David. The Afro-American Jeremiad: Appeals for Justice in America. Phila-
delphia: Temple University Press, 1990.
Huddleston, John. “The Spiritual Destiny of America and World Peace.” Processes of
the Lesser Peace. Ed. Babak Bahador and Nazila Ghanea. Oxford: George Ronald,
2002. 107–161.
Hughes, Richard T. Myths America Lives By. Foreword by Robert N. Bellah. Cham-
paign: University of Illinois Press, 2004.
Hutchinson, Dawn L. Antiquity and Social Reform: Religious Experience in the Unifica-
tion Church, Feminist Wicca and the Nation of Yahweh.Ph.D. dissertation: Florida
State University, 2007. Formerly online at http://etd.lib.fsu.edu/theses/avail-
able/etd-04092007-153203/unrestricted/hutchinson_dis.pdf. Now published by
Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2010.
Ikeda, Daisaku. “Faith for Attaining Buddhahood in This Lifetime: Advance Unerr-
ingly Along the Great Path of the Oneness of Mentor and Disciple.” SGI-USA,
Buddhist Learning Review: 2007 Study Guide, 62.
Ikeda, Daisaku. “The Future Begins With America: The Anniversary of Sept. 11.”
World Tribune (September 6, 2002): 1.
Ikeda, Daisaku. The Human Revolution. Book One. Abridged Edition. Santa Monica:
World Tribune Press, 2004.
Ikeda, Daisaku. “The Humanism of the Middle Way—Dawn of a Global Civilization.”
See
http://www.sgi-usa.net/newsandevents/docs/peace2002.pdf.
(Accessed
October 19, 2014.)
Ikeda, Daisaku. “On the Importance of Studying Buddhism: From the Human Revo-
lution.” SGI-USA, Buddhist Learning Review: 2007 Study Guide.
Ikeda, Daisaku. Journey of Life: Selected Poems of Daisaku Ikeda. London/New York: I.B.
Taurus, 2014.

References 403
Ikeda, Daisaku. Songs for America: Poems. Mount Rainier, MD: World Tribune Press,
2000.
Ikeda, Daisaku and Vincent Harding. America Will Be! Conversations on Hope, Freedom,
and Democracy. Cambridge, MA: Dialogue Path Press, 2013.
Ingram, Haroro J. “The Transformative Charisma Phenomenon in Islamic Radi-
calism and Militancy: Tracing the Evolutionary Roots of Islamic Terrorism.”
Proceedings Social Change in the 21st Century Conference 2006. See http://eprints.
qut.edu.au/6343/1/6343.pdf. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Ireland, John. “The Church and Modern Society.” The Church and Modern Society: Lec-
tures and Addresses. New York: D. H. McBride, 1903. 27–65.
Ireland, John. “The Church in America.” Lecture and Addresses. Vol. II. St. Paul, MN:
Pioneer Press, 1905. 240–241.
Islamic State (Shaykh Ab  Muhammad al-‘Adn n  ash-Sh m , official spokesman),
“Indeed Your Lord is Ever Watchful.” Dabiq, Issue 4 (2014), 6–9. See http://worl-
danalysis.net/14/2014/10/dabiq-issue-4-failed-crusade/. (Accessed November
15, 2014.)
Islamic State, “A Message from Sotloff to His Mother Days Before His Execution,”
Dabiq, Issue 4 (2014), 47–48. See http://worldanalysis.net/14/2014/10/dabiq-
issue-4-failed-crusade/. (Accessed November 15, 2014.)
Islamic State, “Reflections on the Final Crusade.” Dabiq, Issue 4 (2014), 32–44. See
http://worldanalysis.net/14/2014/10/dabiq-issue-4-failed-crusade/. (Accessed
November 15, 2014.)
Jacobs, Louis. The Jewish Religion: A Companion. Oxford and New York: Oxford Uni-
versity Press, 1995.
Jacobs, Renée. “Iroquois Great Law of Peace and the United States Constitution:
How the Founding Fathers Ignored the Clan Mothers.” Native American Law
Review 16 (1991): 497–531.
Jefferson, Thomas. Autobiography of Thomas Jefferson. Mineola, NY: Dover, 2007. See
http://avalon.law.yale.edu/19th_century/jeffauto.asp. (Accessed October 19,
2014.)
Jefferson, Thomas. “To Governor William H. Harrison Washington, February
27, 1803.” The Letters of Thomas Jefferson: 1743–1826. See http://odur.let.rug.
nl/~usa/P/tj3/writings/brf/jefl151.htm. University of Groningen. (Accessed
October 19, 2014.)
Jefferson, Thomas. The Writings of Thomas Jefferson. 1903.
Jessup, Henry H. “The Religious Mission of the English Speaking Nations.” The
World’s Parliament of Religions: An illustrated and popular story of the world’s first Par-
liament of Religions, held in Chicago in connection with the Columbian Exposition of 1893.
Vol. 2. Ed. John H. Barrows. Chicago: Parliament Pub. Co., 1893. 1122–1126.
Johansen, Bruce E. . “Dating the Iroquois Confederacy.” Akwesasne Notes 1.3/4 (Fall
1995): 62–63.
Johansen, Bruce E. Forgotten Founders: Benjamin Franklin, the Iroquois, and the Rationale
for the American Revolution. Ipswich, MA: Gambit, 1982; idem, Forgotten Founders:
How the American Indian Helped Shape Democracy. Boston: Harvard Common Press,
1982.
Johansen, Bruce E. “Native American Ideas of Governance and U.S. Constitution.”
United States of America Embassy (June 1, 2009). See http://iipdigital.usembassy.
gov/st/english/publication/2009/06/20090617110824wrybakcuh0.5986096.
html#ixzz3LvYTB44Z. (Accessed December 14, 2014.)

404 References
Johansen, Bruce E., and Barbara A. Mann, eds., Encyclopedia of the Haudenosaunee (Iro-
quois Confederacy). Westport, CT: Greenwood Publishing, 2000.
John Paul II, Pope. “Address of John Paul II to Hon. Richard B. Cheney, Vice Presi-
dent of the United States of America” (Tuesday, January 27, 2004). See http://
www.vatican.va/holy_father/john_paul_ii/speeches/2004/january/documents/
hf_jp-ii_spe_20040127_vice-pres-usa_en.html. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
John Paul II, Pope. “John Paul II on the American Experiment.” First Things 82 (April
1998): 36–37.
John Paul II, Pope. “Meeting with the President of the United States of America, Mr.
Ronald Reagan. Address of John Paul II.” Vizcaya Museum, Miami. September 10,
1987. See http://www.vatican.va/holy_father/john_paul_ii/speeches/1987/sep-
tember/documents/hf_jp-ii_spe_19870910_reagan-museo_en.html.
(Accessed
October 19, 2014.)
John Paul II, Pope. “Welcome Address of His Holiness John Paul II.” International
Airport of Miami. 10 September 1987.” See http://www.vatican.va/holy_father/
john_paul_ii/speeches/1987/september/documents/hf_jp-ii_spe_19870910_
aeroporto-miami_en.html. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
John XXIII, Pope. “Pacem in Terris: Encyclical of Pope John XXIII on Establishing
Universal Peace in Truth, Justice, Charity, and Liberty, April 11, 1963.” The Pope
Speaks 9 (1963): 13–48.
Kaplan, Jeffrey. “The Context of American Millenarian Revolutionary Theology: The
Case of the ‘Identity Christian’ Church of Israel.” Terrorism and Political Violence
5.1 (Spring 1993): 30–82.
Kaplan, Mordecai Menahem. Dynamic Judaism: The Essential Writings of Mordecai M.
Kaplan. Ed. Emanuel S. Goldsmith and Mel Scult. New York: Fordham University
Press, 1991.
Kaplan, Mordecai Menahem. The Greater Judaism in the Making: A Study of the Modern
Evolution of Judaism. New York: Reconstructionist Press, 1960.
Kaplan, Mordecai Menahem. Judaism as a Civilization: Toward a Reconstruction of Amer-
ican-Jewish Life. Philadelphia: Jewish Publication Society of America, 1994 [1934].
Kaplan, Mordecai M., Ira Eisenstein, and Eugene Kohn, eds. The New Haggadah for
the Pesah Seder. Illus. Leonard Weisgard. New York: Behrman House, Inc., 1941;
Newly Revised Edition, 1978.
Kaplan, Mordecai M., J. Paul Williams, and Eugene Kohn, eds. The Faith of Amer-
ica: Readings, Songs and Prayers for the Celebration of American Holidays. New York:
Reconstructionist Press, 1951. Reprint: 1963.
Karp, Abraham J. Jewish Continuity in America: Creative Survival in a Free Society. Judaic
Studies Series. Unnumbered. Tuscaloosa: University of Alabama Press, 1998.
Katz, Steven T. “Mordecai Kaplan’s Theology and the Problem of Evil.” Jewish Social
Studies 12.2 (2006): 115–126.
Katzenstein, Peter J., and Robert O. Keohane, “Varieties of Anti-Americanism: A
Framework for Analysis.” Anti-Americanism in World Politics. Ed. Peter J. Katzen-
stein and Robert O. Keohane. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 2007.
Kauanui, J. Kehaulani. “Diasporic Deracination and ‘Off-Island’ Hawaiians.” The
Contemporary Pacific 19.1 (2007): 138–160.
Kaufmann, Eric. “American Exceptionalism Reconsidered: Anglo-Saxon Ethnogene-
sis in the ‘Universal’ Nation, 1776–1850.” Journal of American Studies 33.3 (1999):
437–457.

References 405
Kehoe, Alice B. North American Indians: A Comprehensive Account. 3rd ed. Upper Saddle
River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2006.
Kendrick, A. Clements. Woodrow Wilson: World Statesman. Lawrence: University Press
of Kansas, 1987.
Kenney, Jeff. “The Politics of Sects and Typologies.” Nova Religio 6.1 (October 2002):
137–146.
Kerry, John. “Opening Remarks Before the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Wash-
ington, DC, September 18, 2014.” U.S. Department of State. See http://www.
state.gov/secretary/remarks/2014/09/231814.htm. (Accessed November 8,
2014.)
Khan, M.A. Muqtedar. “American Exceptionalism and American Muslims.” Review of
Faith & International Affairs 10.2 (May 2012): 59–65.
Khomeini, Ayatollah. Imam’s Will. Tehran: Ministry of Islamic Guidance, 1989.
King, Martin Luther, Jr. “The World House.” Where Do We Go from Here: Chaos or Com-
munity? Boston: Beacon Press, 1968.
Kingdom Identity Ministries. “Kingdom Identity Ministries Doctrinal Statement of
Beliefs.” See http://www.kingidentity.com/doctrine.htm. (Accessed October 19,
2014.)
Kingdom Identity Ministries, “Man and Beast, God Commands Racial Segrega-
tion” (broadcast August 31, 2014). Herald of Truth, Radio Broadcasts, Program
Archives. See http://www.kingidentity.com/radioarchives/#player. (Accessed
November 26, 2014.)
Kissinger, Henry. Diplomacy. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1994.
Klassen, Ben. Nature’s Eternal Religion. See http://www.resist.com/Natures_eternal_
religion.pdf. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Klassen, Ben. The White Man’s Bible. Milwaukee: The Milwaukee Church of the Cre-
ator, 1986.
Knock, Thomas J. To End All Wars: Woodrow Wilson and the Quest for a New World Order.
Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1992.
Knoll, Mark A. “Protestant Evangelicals and Recent American Politics.” Journal of
American and Canadian Studies [Sophia University, Japan], no. 25 (2007): 3–18.
Koester, Nancy. “The Future in Our Past: Post-millennialism in American Protes-
tantism.” Word and World 15.2 (Spring 1995): 137–144.
Koh, Harold Hongju. “Foreword: On American Exceptionalism.” Stanford Law Review
55.5 (May 2003): 1470–1528.
Kohler, Kaufmann. “The Mission of Israel and its Application to Modern Times.”
Yearbook of the Central Conference of American Rabbis 29 (1919): 265–288 [discus-
sion, 288–305].
Kolodziej, Edward A. “American Power and Global Order.” From Superpower to
Besieged Global Power: Restoring World Order After the Failure of the Bush Doctrine. Ed.
Edward A. Kolodziej and Roger E. Kanet. Atlanta: University of Georgia Press,
2008. 3–30.
Krummel, Carl. “Catholicism, Americanism, Democracy, and Orestes Brownson.”
American Quarterly 6.1 (Spring 1954): 19–31.
Kuklick, Bruce. “Myth and Symbol in American Studies.” American Quarterly 24
(October 1972): 435–450.
Kyle, Richard G. Apocalyptic Fever: End-Time Prophecies in Modern America. Eugene, OR:
Cascade Books, 2012.

406 References
Kyle, Richard G. Evangelicalism: An Americanized Christianity (New Brunswick, NJ:
Transaction Publishers, 2006).
Kyle, Richard G. Review of Religious Myths and Visions of America. Journal of American
History 98.1 (June 2011): 279–280.
Laipson, Ellen. “The Absence of a U.S. Policy towards Iran and its Consequences.”
The American Academy of Diplomacy Issues Brief (September 21, 2004).
Langer, Ruth. “Theologies of Self and Other in American Jewish Liturgies.” CCAR
Journal: A Reform Jewish Quarterly (Winter 2005): 3–41.
Larson, Stan, ed. “The King Follett Discourse: A Newly Amalgamated Text.” Brigham
Young University Studies 18.2 (Winter 1978): 193–208.
“Latter-day Saints.” The HarperCollins Dictionary of Religion. Ed. Jonathan Z. Smith.
San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 1995.
Layman, Geoffrey. The Great Divide: Religious and Cultural Conflict in American Party
Politics. New York: Columbia University Press, 2001.
Leavitt, Michael F. Student Casenote: “Keenan v. Aryan Nations, No. CV-99-441.
Idaho 2000.” Idaho Law Review 37.3 (2001): 603–639.
Le Baron, E. Dale. “Mormonism in Black Africa.” Mormon Identities in Transition. Ed.
Douglas Davies. London and New York: Cassell, 1996. 80–86.
Lederhendler, Eli. “America: A Vision in a Jewish Mirror.” Jewish Responses to Moder-
nity: New Voices in America and Eastern Europe. New York: New York University
Press, 1994. 104–139.
Leo XIII, “Concerning New Opinions, Virtue, Nature and Grace, with Regard to
Americanism. Testem Benevolentiae Nostrae.” Encyclical of Pope Leo XIII promul-
gated on January 22, 1899. See http://www.papalencyclicals.net/Leo13/l13teste.
htm. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Lerche, Charles O. “The Conflicts of Globalization.” International Journal of Peace
Studies 1.3 (January 1998): 47–66.
Letterbook, George Morgan. American Commissioners for Indian Affairs to Delawares,
Senecas, Munsees, and Mingos. Pittsburgh, 1776. [Manuscript?]
Levy, P. A. “Exemplars of Taking Liberties: The Iroquois Influence Thesis and the
Problem of Evidence.” William and Mary Quarterly 53.3 (July 1996): 588–604.
Lewis, Bernard. “The Roots of Muslim Rage: Why so many Muslims deeply resent
the West, and why their bitterness will not easily be mollified.” The Atlantic
Monthly. (September 1990): 1–10. The Atlantic Online, at http://www.theatlantic.
com/magazine/archive/1990/09/the-roots-of-muslim-rage/304643/. (Accessed
October 19, 2014.)
Lewis, Kevin. “Nathanael West and American Apocalyptic.” Tradition and Postmo-
dernity: English and American Studies and the Challenge of the Future. Proceedings of
the Eighth International Conference on English and American Literature and
Language. Eds. Teresa Bela and Zygmunt Mazur. Krakow, Poland: Jagiellonian
University, 1999. 435–443 [435].
Lieb, Michael. Children of Ezekiel: Aliens, UFOs, the Crisis of Race, and the Advent of End
Time. Durham and London: Duke University Press, 1998.
Lienesch, Michael. Redeeming America: Piety and Politics in the New Christian Right. Cha-
pel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1993.
Lincoln, Abraham. “First Inaugural Address” (March 4, 1861).
Lincoln, Abraham. “The Gettysburg Address” (November 19, 1863).
Lipset, Seymour Martin. American Exceptionalism: A Double-Edged Sword. New York:
Norton, 1996.

References 407
Lipset, Seymour Martin. “A Unique People in an Exceptional Country.” American
Pluralism and the Jewish Community. New Brunswick, NJ: Transaction, 1990. 3–29.
Living the Life: A Compilation. London: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1974.
Locke, Alain. “Alain Locke: Four Talks: Redefining Democracy, Education, and
World Citizenship.” Ed. and intro. Christopher Buck and Betty J. Fisher. World
Order 38.3 (2006/2007): 21–41. (Alain Locke, “The Preservation of the American
Ideal”; “Stretching Our Social Mind”; “On Becoming World Citizens”; “Creative
Democracy.”)
Locke, Alain. “Alain Locke in His Own Words: Three Essays.” Ed. Christopher Buck
and Betty J. Fisher. Special Issue: Alain Locke: Dean of the Harlem Renaissance and
Baha’i Race-Amity Leader. World Order 36.3 (2005): (“The Gospel for the Twentieth
Century” [39–42]; “Peace Between Black and White in the United States” [42–45];
“Five Phases of Democracy” [45–48]; see also idem, “The Moon Maiden” [37]).
Locke, Alain. “Locke Holds Smashing of Humanity’s Barriers Civilization’s Present
Need: Howard University Professor Views Elimination of Bars Between Races,
Sexes and Nations as Necessity for Progress.” The New York Amsterdam News
(March 26, 1930): 11.
Locke, John. “Second Treatise of Civil Government.” Two Treatises of Government
(1690). See http://thefederalistpapers.integratedmarket.netdna-cdn.com/wp-
content/uploads/2012/12/Two-Treatises-of-Government-by-John-Locke.pdf.
(Accessed November 16, 2014.)
Lopez, Robert Oscar. “The Colors of Double Exceptionalism: The Founders and
African America.” Literature Compass 5.1 (2008): 20–41.
Luce, Henry R. “The American Century.” Diplomatic History 23.2 (2002): 159–171.
Luse, Christopher A. “Slavery’s Champions Stood at Odds: Polygenesis and the
Defense of Slavery.” Civil War History 53.4 (December 2007): 379–412.
Lyons, Oren. “Looking Toward the Seventh Generation.” Presentation, American
Indian Studies Program, University of Arizona, Tucson, Arizona (April 17, 2008).
See https://nnidatabase.org/video/oren-lyons-looking-toward-seventh-genera-
tion. (Accessed November 29, 2014.)
Madsen, Deborah L. American Exceptionalism. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University
Press, 1998.
Makdisi, Ussama. “‘Anti-Americanism’ in the Arab World: An Interpretation of a
Brief History.” Journal of American History 89.2 (September 2002). Reprinted in
Joanne Jay Meyerowitz, ed. History and September 11th. Philadelphia: Temple Uni-
versity Press, 2003. 131–156.
Malcolm X, “Black Man’s History.” The End of White-World Supremacy: Four Speeches by
Malcolm X. Ed. Benjamin Karim. New York: Little, Brown, 1971.
Malcolm X. “God’s Judgement of America.” The End of White World Supremacy. Ed.
Imam B. Karim. New York: Seaver Books, 1971. 121–148. Also see http://www.
malcolm-x.org/speeches/spc_120463.htm. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Malcolm X. “There’s a Worldwide Revolution Going On.” Malcolm X: The Last
Speeches. Ed. Bruce Perry. New York: Pathfinder Press, 1989.
Mann, Barbara A. “Affiliated Nations of the League.” Encyclopedia of the Haudenosaunee
(Iroquois Confederacy). Ed. Bruce E. Johansen and Barbara A. Mann. Westport, CT:
Greenwood Publishing, 2000). 7–10.
Mann, Barbara A. “The First Epoch of Time: Creation Keepings.” Encyclopedia of the
Haudenosaunee (Iroquois Confederacy). Ed. Bruce E. Johansen and Barbara A. Mann.
Westport, CT: Greenwood Publishing, 2000. 83–97.

408 References
Mann, Barbara A. “Jigonsaseh.” Encyclopedia of American Indian History. Ed. Bruce
E. Johansen and Barry M. Pritzker. Santa Barbara, CA: ABC-CLIO, 2008. Vol. 3:
757–759.
Mann, Barbara A. “Spirits of Sky, Spirits of Earth: The Spirituality of Chingachgook.”
James Fenimore Cooper Society Miscellaneous Papers No. 17 (September 2002): 1–5.
Mann, Barbara A., and Bruce E. Johansen, eds. Encyclopedia of the Haudenosaunee (Iro-
quois Confederacy). Westport, CT: Greenwood Publishing, 2000.
Mann, Barbara A., and Jerry L. Fields. “A Sign in the Sky: Dating the League of the
Haudenosaunee.” American Indian Culture and Research Journal 21.2 (August 1997):
105–163.
Marsden, Lee. For God’s Sake: The Christian Right and US Foreign Policy. London/New
York: Zed Books, 2008.
Martin, William. With God On Our Side: The Rise of the Religious Right in America. New
York: Broadway Books, 1996.
Marty, Martin E. The Protestant Voice in American Pluralism. George H. Shriver Lec-
ture Series in Religion in American History, No. 2. Athens: University of Georgia
Press, 2004.
Mathisen, James A. “Twenty Years after Bellah: What Ever Happened to American
Civil Religion?” Sociological Analysis 50.2 (1989): 129–146.
Mattson, Ingrid. “How Muslims Use Islamic Paradigms to Define America.” Reli-
gion and Immigration: Christian, Jewish, and Muslim Experiences in the United States.
Ed. Yvonne Yazbeck Haddad, Jane Smith, and John Esposito. Walnut Creek, CA:
Altamira Press, 2003. 198–215.
McConnell, Michael N. A Country Between: The Upper Ohio Valley and Its Peoples, 1724–
1774. Lincoln and London: University of Nebraska Press, 1992.
McDowall, Angus. “Saudi Arabia’s Top Clerics Speak Out Against Militancy,” Reuters
(September 17, 2014). See http://af.reuters.com/article/worldNews/idAFKBN-
0HC0XL20140917. (Accessed November 10, 2014.)
McGuire, Paul. A Prophecy of the Future of America. Self-published, 2013. See http://
www.paulmcguire.us/a-prophecy-of-the-future-of-america.html.
(Accessed
December 7, 2014.)
McMullen, Michael. “The Religious Construction of a Global Identity: An Ethno-
graphic Look at the Atlanta Baha’i Community.” Contemporary American Religion:
An Ethnographic Reader. Ed. Penny Edgell Becker and Nancy L. Eiesland. Walnut
Creek, London, New Delhi: Altamira Press, 1997. 236–237 and 227.
Mead, Sidney E. “American Protestantism Since the Civil War: I. From Denomina-
tionalism to Americanism.” Journal of Religion 36.1 (January 1956): 1–16.
Merish, Lori. Sentimental Materialism: Gender, Commodity Culture, and Nineteenth-Cen-
tury American Literature. Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 2000.
Métraux, Daniel. “Soka Gakkai International: The Global Expansion of a Japanese
Buddhist Movement.” Religion Compass 7 (2013): 423–432.
Meyer, Michael A. “America: The Reform Movement’s Land of Promise.” Response to
Modernity: A History of the Reform Movement in Judaism. Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 1988; Detroit: Wayne State University Press, 1995.
Miller, Hunter, ed. “Treaty of Peace and Friendship between the United States and
the Bey and Subjects of Tripoli of Barbary, 1796–1797.” Treaties and Other Interna-
tional Acts of the United States of America. Vol. 2. 1776–1818. Washington, DC: U.S.
Government Printing Office, 1931.

References 409
Miller, Perry. Errand into the Wilderness. Cambridge: Belknap Press of Harvard Uni-
versity Press, 1956.
Moaddel, Mansoor. “Discursive Pluralism and Islamic Modernism in Egypt.” Arab
Studies Quarterly 24.1 (Winter 2002): 1–29.
Mohammed, Warith Deen. “A Message From: Imam Warith Deen Mohammed.”
February 25, 2000. The Final Call Online. See http://www.finalcall.com/columns/
mlf/2000/imam_wdm2-25-2000.html. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Morlin, Bill. “Influential Christian Identity Pastor Dies.” Hatewatch (Intelligence
Project of the Southern Poverty Law Center, July 15, 2011). See http://www.
splcenter.org/blog/2011/07/15/influential-christian-identity-pastor-dies/.
(Accessed November 25, 2014.)
Monten, Jonathan. “The Roots of the Bush Doctrine: Power, Nationalism, and Democ-
racy Promotion in U.S. Strategy.” International Security 29.4 (2005): 112–156.
Moore, Deborah Dash. “Judaism as a Gendered Civilization: The Legacy of Mordecai
Kaplan’s Magnum Opus.” Jewish Social Studies 12.2 (2006): 172–186.
Moore, James P., Jr. Prayer in America: A Spiritual History of Our Nation. New York:
Doubleday, 2007.
Moorhead, James H. “The American Israel: Protestant Tribalism and Universal Mis-
sion.” Many Are Chosen: Divine Election and Western Nationalism. Ed. William R.
Hutchison and Hartmut Lehmann. Philadelphia: Fortress Press, 1994. 145–166.
Moorhead, James H. “‘God’s Right Arm’? Minority Faiths and Protestant Visions of
America.” Minority Faiths and the American Protestant Mainstream. Ed. Jonathan D.
Sarna. Urbana/Chicago: University of Illinois Press, 1998. 335–361.
Morris, Richard B. “Benjamin Franklin’s Grand Design: The Albany Plan of Union
Might Have Made the Revolution Unnecessary.” American Heritage Magazine 7.2
(February 1956). See http://www.americanheritage.com/content/february-1956.
(Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Muhammad, Elijah. Chapter 58, “The Mother Plane.” The Fall of America. See http://
www.seventhfam.com/temple/books/fall_america/amfall58.htm.
(Accessed
October 19, 2014.)
Murase, Miyeko. “Kuan-Yin as Savior of Men: Illustration of the Twenty-Fifth Chap-
ter of the Lotus Sutra in Chinese Painting.” Artibus Asiae 33.1–2 (1971): 39–74.
Murray, John Courtney. We Hold These Truths: Catholic Reflections on the American Propo-
sition. Reprinted, Lanham MD: Rowman and Littlefield, 2005 [1960].
Nathanson, Paul. Over the Rainbow: The Wizard of Oz as a Secular Myth of America.
McGill Studies in the History of Religion. Albany: State University of New York
Press, 1991.
National Council of Churches. The Yearbook of American and Canadian Churches. 2008.
National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of the United States. “The Destiny of
America and the Promise of World Peace.” New York Times (December 23, 2001),
A29. See http://www.bahai.us/destiny-of-america. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of the United States. “The Vision of
Race Unity: America’s Most Challenging Issue.” 1991. See http://www.ibiblio.
org/Bahai/Texts/English/The-Vision-Of-Race-Unity.html. (Accessed October
19, 2014.)
Neusner, Jacob. “Is America the Promised Land for Jews?” The Washington Post. 1987.
Reprinted: Carol Diament, ed. Zionism: The Sequel. New York: Hadassah, 1998.
121–128.

410 References
Neusner, Jacob. “Judaism in the World and in America.” World Religions in America:
An Introduction. Ed. idem. Louisville, KY: Westminster John Knox Press, 2000.
107–123.
Neusner, Jacob. “Stranger at Home: ‘The Holocaust’.” Zionism, and American Judaism.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1981.
Newhouse, Seth. Constitution of the Confederacy by Dekanawidah. 1897. Trans. By J.
N. B. Hewitt. 1937. Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology
Archives, No. 3490.
Newhouse, Seth. Cosmogony of De-ka-na-wi-da’s Government of the Iroquois Confederacy:
The Original Literal Historical Narratives of the Iroquois Confederacy. Manuscript. Pub-
lic Archives of Canada, folder MG 19 F. 26, Ottawa.
Newhouse, Seth. Mohawk Cosmogony of De-ka-na-wi-da’s Government. Photocopy.
American Philosophical Society Library, 1885.
New York Morning News. “The True Title” (December 27, 1845).
New York Times. “Delegates Arrive for Hebrew Council; Representatives of 187 Con-
gregations Gathering for the 22d Convention of the Union” (January 16, 1911).
New York Times. “The Hebrews of America; The Union of Congregations in Session at
Richmond Discusses the Zionistic Movement” (December 8, 1898).
Noll, Mark A. “‘Wee Shall Be As A City Upon A Hill’: John Winthrop’s Non-
American Exceptionalism.” Review Of Faith & International Affairs 10.2 (Summer
2012): 5–11.
Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (Norad), Lobbying for Faith and
Family: A Study of Religious NGOs at the United Nations. Oslo: Norad, 2013.
Obama, President Barack. “Joint Press Availability with President Obama and Presi-
dent Gul of Turkey.” (The White House, Office of the Press Secretary, Press Release,
April 6, 2009). See http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/joint-press-avail-
ability-with-president-obama-and-president-gul-turkey. For the video, see https://
www.youtube.com/watch?v=QIVd7YT0oWA. (Accessed November 21, 2014.)
Obama, Senator Barack. “A Politics of Conscience.” United Church of Christ
(UCC), General Synod (celebrating the UCC’s 50th Anniversary), Civic Center,
Hartford, Connecticut. (June 23, 2007.) See http://www.ucc.org/news/signifi-
cant-speeches/a-politics-of-conscience.html. (Accessed November 21, 2014.)
O’Connell, Marvin. John Ireland and the American Catholic Church. St. Paul: Minnesota
Historical Society, 1988.
O’Driscoll, Cian. “Jean Bethke Elshtain’s Just War Against Terror: A Tale of Two Cit-
ies.” International Relations 21.4 (2007): 485–492.
Office of the Press Secretary. “In Their Own Words: What the Terrorists Believe,
What They Hope to Accomplish, and How They Intend to Accomplish It.” White
House press release (September 5, 2006). See http://georgewbush-whitehouse.
archives.gov/news/releases/2006/09/20060905-7.html. (Accessed October 19,
2014.)
Oldfield, Duane Murray. The Right and the Righteous: The Christian Right Confronts the
Republican Party. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield, 1996.
Oliver, William Hosking. Prophets and Millennialists: The Uses of Biblical Prophecy in
England from the 1790s to the 1840s. Auckland: Auckland University Press, 1978.
Ostendorf, Rev. David. “Christian Identity: An American Heresy.” Journal of Hate
Studies 1.1 (2001/2002): 23–55.
Ostling, Richard N., and Joan K. Ostling, Mormon America: The Power and the Promise.
San Francisco: HarperSanFrancisco, 1999.

References 411
O’Sullivan, John. “America’s Identity Crisis.” National Review 46 (November 21
1994): 36–45.
O’Sullivan, John L. “Annexation.” The United States Magazine and Democratic Review 17
(July–August 1845): 5–10. Emphasis added.
O’Sullivan, John L. “The Great Nation of Futurity.” The United States Democratic
Review 6.23 (November 1839): 426–430.
Oxford English Dictionary. 3rd Edition. John Simpson, Chief Editor. Oxford: Oxford
University Press, 2008.
Parker, Arthur Caswell. “The Constitution of the Five Nations—or—the Iroquois
Book of the Great Law.” New York State Museum Bulletin, 184. Albany, NY: The
University of the State of New York, 1916 (April 1, 1916).
Parker, Arthur C. “The Traditional Narrative of the Origin of the Confederation of
the Five Nations Commonly Known as the Iroquois.” Parker on the Iroquois. Ed. W.
Fenton. Syracuse, NY: Syracuse University Press, 1968.
Paul, Jonny. “UK Chief Rabbi Delivers Invocation Prayer at US Senate.” Jerusalem Post
(November 3, 2011). http://www.jpost.com/Jewish-World/Jewish-Features/UK-
Chief-Rabbi-delivers-Invocation-prayer-at-US-Senate. (Accessed November 17,
2014.)
Payne, S. B. “The Iroquois League, the Articles of Confederation, and the Constitu-
tion.” William and Mary Quarterly 53.3 (July 1996): 605–620.
Penzl, Herbert. “Paul Laurence Dunbar’s Literary Dialects.” PMLA: Publications of the
Modern Language Association of America 108.1 (January 1993): 155–156.
Peters, Pastor Peter J. “We are NOT ‘Gay,’ We are NOT Cannibals, and We Cer-
tainly are NOT ‘Identity’.” Scriptures for America. See https://web.archive.org/
web/20001206053200/http://www.scripturesforamerica.org/html/notidentity.
html. Archived November 9, 2000. (Accessed November 27, 2014.)
Peterson, Thomas V. Ham and Japheth: The Mythic World of Whites in the Antebellum
South. Metuchen, NJ: Scarecrow Press, 1978.
Pianko, Noam. “Reconstructing Judaism, Reconstructing America: The Sources and
Functions of Mordecai Kaplan’s ‘Civilization’.” Jewish Social Studies: History, Cul-
ture, and Society 12.2 (Winter 2006): 39–55.
Pinheiro, John Christopher. Crusade and Conquest: Anti-Catholicism, Manifest Destiny,
and the United States–Mexican War of 1846–1848. Ph.D. dissertation: University of
Tennessee, 2001.
Pope Pius XII. “Wisdom—Not Weapons of War: A Program for Permanent Peace.”
Collier’s (January 5, 1946): 9–11. See http://www.unz.org/Pub/Colliers-
1946jan05. Accessed November 13, 2014.
Portier, William L. “Heartfelt Grief and Repentance in Imperial Times.” Love Alone
Is Credible: Hans von Balthasar as Interpreter of the Catholic Tradition. Volume 1. Ed.
David L. Schindler. Grand Rapids, MI: Eerdmans, 2008.
Pratt, Julius W. “The Origin of ‘Manifest Destiny’.” American Historical Review 32.4
(July 1927): 795–798.
“Prayer for the Government.” Daily Prayer Book. Ha-Siddur Ha-Shalem. Translated and
annotated with an Introduction by Philip Birnbaum. New York: Hebrew Publish-
ing Company, 1977. 380.
Prentiss, Craig R. “Coloring Jesus: Racial Calculus and the Search for Identity in
Twentieth-century America.” Nova Religio 11.3 (February 2008): 64–82.
Prentiss, Craig R. “‘Loathsome unto Thy People’: The Latter-Day Saints and
Racial Categorization.” Religion and the Creation of Race and Ethnicity: An

412 References
Introduction. Ed. Craig R. Prentiss. New York/London: New York University
Press, 2003. 124–139.
“Proceedings of the Commissioners Appointed by the Continental Congress to
Negotiate a Treaty with the Six Nations, 1775.” Papers of the Continental Congress,
1774–89, National Archives. M247, Roll 144, Item No. 134, and cross-references to
the Treaty Council at German Flats, New York, August 15, 1775.
Qutb, Sayyid. “‘The America I Have Seen’: In the Scale of Human Values. 1951.
Trans. Tarek Masoud and Ammar Fakeeh. America in an Arab Mirror: Images of
America in Arabic Travel Literature: An Anthology. Ed. Kamal Abdel-Malek. New
York: Palgrave Macmillan, 2000. 9–28.
Raboteau, Albert J. “African-Americans, Exodus, and the American Israel.” African-
American Christianity: Essays in History. Ed. Paul E. Johnson. Berkeley: University
of California Press, 1994. 1–17 Reprinted in idem, A Fire in the Bones. Boston:
Beacon Press, 1996. 17–36.
Ray, Stephen G., Jr. Review of The Myth of Ham in Nineteenth-Century American Christi-
anity: Race, Heathens, and the People of God. Conversations in Religion and Theology
4.1 (2006): 36–38.
Reagan, Ronald, Governor. “We Will Be A City Upon A Hill.” (January 25, 1974.)
First Conservative Political Action Conference. See http://reagan2020.us/
speeches/City_Upon_A_Hill.asp. (Accessed November 13, 2014.)
Reagan, Ronald, President. “Farewell Speech.” White House. (January 11, 1989.)
See http://reagan2020.us/speeches/Farewell.asp. Video: http://www.reagan-
foundation.org/tgcdetail.aspx?p=TG0923RRS&h1=0&h2=0&sw=&lm=rea
gan&args_a=cms&args_b=1&argsb=N&tx=1749. (Accessed November 21,
2014.)
Reichard, Gladys A. “Literary Types and Dissemination of Myths.” Journal of Ameri-
can Folklore 34, no. 133 (July–September 1921): 269–307.
Rejai, Mostafa. Political Ideologies: A Comparative Approach. 2nd ed. Armonk, NY, and
London: M. E. Sharpe, 1995.
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice. Conservation of the Earth’s
Resources: A Compilation of Extracts from the Bahá’i Writings. London: Baha’i Pub-
lishing Trust, 1990.
Ridgeway, James. Blood in the Face: The Ku Klux Klan, Aryan Nations, Nazi Skinheads,
and the Rise of a New White Culture. New York: Thunder’s Mouth Press, 1999.
Rieffer, Barbara-Ann J. “Religion and Nationalism: Understanding the Consequences
of a Complex Relationship.” Ethnicities 3.2 (2003): 215–242.
Rippin, Andrew. “Iblís.” Encyclopaedia of the Qur’an. Ed. Jane Dammen McAuliffe.
Vol. II. Leiden: E. J. Brill, 2002.
Rippin, Andrew. Muslims: Their Religious Beliefs and Practices. 3rd ed. London: Rout-
ledge, 2005.
“Robert A. F. Thurman.” See http://www.bobthurman.com/bio.php. (Accessed
October 19, 2014.)
Robertson, Roland. Globalization: Social Theory and Global Culture. London: Sage, 1992.
Robertson, Wilmot. The Ethnostate: An Unblinkered Prospectus for an Advanced State-
craft. Cape Canaveral, FL: Howard Allen Enterprises, 1992.
Robinson, Fiona. “Rethinking Ethics in an Era of Globalization.” Sussex Papers in
International Relations no. 2 (January 1996).
Romney, Mitt. “Faith in America,” speech delivered Thursday, December 6, 2007, at
the George Bush Presidential Library in College Station, Texas. See http://www.

References 413
npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=16969460 (transcript) and https://
www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hi3X8yPdlEE (video). (Accessed December 5,
2014.)
Romney, Mitt. “Transcript: Mitt Romney’s Acceptance Speech.” National Public
Radio (August 30, 2012). See http://www.npr.org/2012/08/30/160357612/
transcript-mitt-romneys-acceptance-speech. (Accessed November 4, 2014.)
Rosenfeld, Alvin H. “Promised Land(s): Zion, America, and American Jewish Writ-
ers.” Jewish Social Studies 3.3 (Spring/Summer 1997): 111–131.
Ross, Christopher. “American Public Diplomacy and Islam.” Ambassadors Review
(Spring
2003).
See
https://s3.amazonaws.com/caa-production/attach-
ments/340/Ross.pdf. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Rostankowski, Alison, ed. Prayer in America: Community Resource Guide. Davenport,
IA: Duncan Group for PBS Television, 2007. See http://outreachextensions.com/
docs/Prayer_In_America_Comm_Resource_Guide.pdf. (Accessed November 24,
2014.)
Rostankowski, Alison; Judy Ravitz; Duane Huey. “Welcome Letter.” Prayer in Amer-
ica: Community Resource Guide. Ed. Alison Rostankowski. Davenport, IA: Duncan
Group for PBS Television, 2007. 1–2. See http://outreachextensions.com/docs/
Prayer_In_America_Comm_Resource_Guide.pdf.
(Accessed
November
24,
2014.)
Rouner, Leroy S. “Civil Religion, Cultural Diversity, and American Civilization.” The
Key Reporter 64.3 (1999): 1–6.
Russell, Greg. “Theodore Roosevelt, Geopolitics, and Cosmopolitan Ideals.” Review
of International Studies 32 (2006): 541–559.
Ryan, James Emmett. “Orestes Brownson in Young America: Popular Books and the
Fate of Catholic Criticism.” American Literary History 15.3 (2003): 443–470.
“SA: Racist Group Bases Website Activity in SA.” AAP General News Wire. Sydney:
January 31, 2006.
Sabbath and Festival Prayer Book. New York: United Synagogue of America, 1946.
Sabbath Prayer Book: With a Supplement Containing Prayers, Readings and Hymns and
with a New Translation. New York: The Jewish Reconstructionist Foundation, Inc.,
1945.
Sacks, Rabbi Jonathan. “A Prayer for America: Rabbi Jonathan Sacks at the U.S.
Senate.”
See
http://www.chabad.org/multimedia/media_cdo/aid/1670230/
jewish/A-Prayer-for-America.htm. (Accessed November 17, 2014.)
Safi, Omar, ed. Progressive Muslims: On Justice, Gender, and Pluralism. Oxford: Oneworld
Publications, 2003.
Safi, Omar. “What Is Progressive Islam?” ISIM Newsletter 13 (December 2003):
48–49. See http://jsrforum.lib.virginia.edu/pdfs/SafiProgressive.pdf. (Accessed
October 19, 2014.)
Sagan, Carl. Cosmos. New York: Ballantine Books, 2013 [1980].
Salins, Peter D. Assimilation, American Style. New York: Basic Books, 1997.
Sarna, Jonathan D. American Judaism: A History. New Haven/London: Yale University
Press, 2004.
Sarna, Jonathan D. “Church-state Dilemmas of Jewish Americans.” Jews and the
American Public Square: Debating Religion. Ed. Alan Mittleman, Robert Licht, and
Jonathan D. Sarna. Lanham, MD: Rowman and Littlefield, 2002.
Sarna, Jonathan D. “Columbus and the Jews.” Commentary 94:5 (November 1992):
38–41. Revised and expanded in idem, “The Mythical Jewish Columbus and the

414 References
History of America’s Jews.” Religion in the Age of Exploration. Ed. Bryan F. Le Beau
and Menahem Mor. Omaha: Creighton University Press, 1996. 81–95.
Sarna, Jonathan D. “The Cult of Synthesis in American Jewish Culture.” Jewish Social
Studies 5.1/2 (1998/1999): 52–79.
Sarna, Jonathan D. “Early Prayers for the United States Government.” Prayer in
America: Community Outreach Guide. Public Broadcasting System, 2007. 111–124.
See
http://www.outreachextensions.com/innovations/prayer_in_america/.
(Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Sarna, Jonathan D. “A Forgotten 19th-Century Prayer for the United States Govern-
ment: Its Meaning, Significance, and Surprising Author.” Hesed Ve-Emet: Studies
in Honor of Ernest S. Frerichs. Ed. Jodi Magness and Seymour Gitin. Atlanta, GA:
Scholars Press, 1998. 431–440.
Sarna, Jonathan D. “Free-Market Judaism.” See http://www.beliefnet.com/Faiths/
Judaism/2004/04/Free-Market-Judaism.aspx. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Sarna, Jonathan D. Jacksonian Jew: The Two Worlds of Mordecai Noah. New York: Holmes
and Meier, 1981.
Sarna, Jonathan D. “Jewish Prayers for the United States Government: A Study in
the Liturgy of Politics and the Politics of Liturgy.” Moral Problems in American His-
tory: Essays in Honor of David Brion Davis. Ed. Karen Halttunen and Perry Lewis.
Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 1998. 200–221. Reprinted in Liturgy in the
Life of the Synagogue: Studies in the History of Jewish Prayer. Ed. Ruth Langer and Ste-
ven Fine. Duke Judaic Studies, 2. Winona Lake, IN: Eisenbrauns, 2005. 205–224.
Sarna, Jonathan D., et al. “Promised Land, Golden Land: Why Jewish Survival
Depends on Both Israel and America.” Tablet: A New Read on Jewish Life (Novem-
ber 19, 2013). See http://tabletmag.com/jewish-news-and-politics/153164/
promised-land-golden-land. (Accessed December 26, 2014.)
Sarna, Jonathan D. Sacred Survival: The Civil Religion of American Jews. Bloomington
and Indianapolis: Indiana University Press, 1986.
Sarna, Jonathan D. “‘Sacred Survival’ Revisited: American Jewish Civil Religion in
the New Millennium.” The Cambridge Companion to American Judaism. Ed. Dana
Evan Kaplan. Cambridge, MA: Cambridge University Press, 2005. 283–298.
Sarna, Jonathan D. A Time to Every Purpose: Letters to a Young Jew. New York: Basic
Books, 2008.
Schaaf, Gregory. The U.S. Constitution and the Great Law of Peace: A Comparison of Two
Founding Documents. Los Angeles: Center for Indigenous Arts and Cultures, 2004.
Schaeffer, Francis A. A Christian Manifesto. Westchester, IL: Crossway Books, 1981.
Scheske, Eric J. “Orestes Brownson: His Life, His Catholicism.” Logos: A Journal of
Catholic Thought and Culture 7.2 (2004): 137–164.
Scholnick, Robert J. “Extermination and Democracy: O’Sullivan, the Democratic
Review, and Empire, 1837–1840.” American Periodicals: A Journal of History, Criti-
cism, and Bibliography 15.2 (2005): 123–141.
Schöpflin, George. “The Functions of Myth and a Taxonomy of Myths.” Myths and
Nationhood. Ed. Geoffrey Hosking and George Schöpflin. New York: Routledge,
1997. 19–35.
Scriptures for America, The Dragon Slayer Newsletter. See http://www.scripturesfora-
merica.org/newsletters.html. (Accessed November 26, 2014.)
Seager, Richard Hughes. “Buddhist Chanting in Soka Gakkai International.” Reli-
gions of the United States in Practice. Vol. II. Ed. Colleen McDannell. Princeton, NJ:
Princeton University Press, 2001. 112–120.

References 415
“Seek the Welfare of the City.” Formerly online at http://www.ajhs.org/hai/entry.
cfm?id=25. (No access on October 19, 2014.)
Senate of the United States. S. Con. Res. 76/H. Con. Res. 331—To Acknowledge the
Contribution of the Iroquois Confederacy of Nations to the Development of the U.S. Con-
stitution and to Reaffirm the Government-to-government Relationship between the Indian
Tribes and the United States Established in the Constitution. See http://www.senate.
gov/reference/common/faq/Iroquois_Constitution.shtml. (Accessed October
19, 2014.)
Shannon, David T. “‘An Ante-bellum Sermon’: A Resource for an African American
Hermeneutic.” Stony the Road We Trod: African American Biblical Interpretation. Ed.
Cain Hope Felder. New York: Fortress Press, 1991. 98–123.
Shannon, Timothy J. Indians and Colonists at the Crossroads of Empire: The Albany Con-
gress of 1754. Ithaca/Cooperstown: Cornell University Press and New York State
Historical Association, 2000.
Sharpe, Tanya Telfair. “The Identity Christian Movement: Ideology of Domestic Ter-
rorism.” Journal of Black Studies 30.4 (March 2000): 604–623.
Shaw, Stephen. “Harassment, Hate, and Human Rights in Idaho.” Politics in the Post-
war American West. Ed. Richard Lowitt. Norman: University of Oklahoma Press,
1995. 94–105.
Shepard, William E. “Islam and Ideology: Towards a Typology.” International Journal
of Middle East Studies 19.3 (August 1987): 307–335.
Shipps, Jan. “Difference and Otherness: Mormonism and the American Religious
Mainstream.” Minority Faiths and the American Protestant Mainstream. Ed. Jonathan
D. Sarna. Urbana/Chicago: University of Illinois Press, 1998. 81–109.
Shipps, Jan. Mormonism: The Story of A New Religious Tradition. Urbana/Chicago: Uni-
versity of Illinois Press, 1985.
Shipps, Jan. “The Reality of the Restoration and the Restoration Ideal in the Mor-
mon Tradition.” The American Quest for the Primitive Church. Ed. Richard T. Hughes.
Urbana/Chicago: University of Illinois Press, 1988. 181–195.
Shoghi Effendi. The Advent of Divine Justice. Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust,
1990 [1938].
Shoghi Effendi. Citadel of Faith: Messages to America, 1947–1957. Wilmette, IL: Baha’i
Publishing Trust, 1980.
Shoghi Effendi. Dawn of a New Day. New Delhi: Baha’i Publishing Trust of India, n.d.
Shoghi Effendi. Directives from the Guardian. New Delhi: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1973.
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By. Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1979 [1944].
Shoghi Effendi. Messages to America. Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 1947.
Shoghi Effendi. The Promised Day Is Come. Rev. ed. Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing
Trust, 1980 [1941].
Shoghi Effendi. This Decisive Hour: Messages from Shoghi Effendi to the North American
Baha’is, 1932–1946. Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust, 2002.
Shoghi Effendi. The World Order of Baha’u’llah. Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Publishing Trust,
1991 [1936].
Shook, Somer, Wesley Delano, and Robert W. Balch. “Elohim City: A Participant-
Observer Study of a Christian Identity Community.” Nova Religio 2 (April 1999):
245–265.
Siddur Sim Shalom: A Prayer Book for Shabbat, Festivals, and Weekdays. Ed. and trans.
Rabbi Jules Harlow. New York: The Rabbinical Assembly, The United Synagogue
of America, 1985.

416 References
Silverman, Rabbi Morris. “A Prayer for Our Country.” High Holiday Prayer Book. Com-
piled and arranged by Rabbi Morris Silverman. Hartford, CT: Prayer Book Press of
Media Judaica, 1951, 1962, 1979. P. 115.
Silverman, Rabbi Morris, ed. Sabbath and Festival Prayer Book. New York: Rabbinical
Assembly of America and United Synagogue of America, 1946.
Skowronek, Stephen. “The Reassociation of Ideas and Purposes: Racism, Liberal-
ism, and the American Political Tradition.” American Political Science Review 100
(2006): 385–401.
Slotkin, Richard. “Myth and the Production of History.” Ideology and Classic American
Literature. Ed. Sacvan Bercovitch and Myra Jehlen. Cambridge, MA: Cambridge
University Press, 1986. 70–90.
Smith, Anthony D. “Ethnic Election and National Destiny: Some Religious Origins
of Nationalist Ideals.” Nations and Nationalism 5.3 (1999): 331–355.
Smith, Anthony D. “The ‘Sacred’ Dimension of Nationalism.” Millennium: Journal of
International Studies 29.3 (2000): 791–814.
Smith, Ethan. View of the Hebrews: Or, the Tribes of Israel in America. Poultney, VT:
Smith and Shute, 1823.
Smith, Jonathan Z., ed. The HarperCollins Dictionary of Religion. San Francisco: Harper
San Francisco, 1995.
Smith, Joseph. The Articles of Faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. See
http://scriptures.lds.org/a_of_f/1. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Smith, Joseph. “The King Follett Discourse.” See http://mldb.byu.edu/follett.htm.
(Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Smith, Joseph. “The King Follett Discourse: A Newly Amalgamated Text.” Ed. Stan
Larson. Brigham Young University Studies 18.2 (Winter 1978): 193–208.
Smith, Joseph. Times and Seasons 5.8 (April 15, 1844): 510.
Smith, Joseph Fielding. Essentials in Church History. Salt Lake City: Deseret, 1972.
Smith, Joseph Fielding, ed. Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith. Salt Lake City:
Deseret, 1993.
Smith, Joseph, Jr., ed. The Papers of Joseph Smith. Vol. 1, The Autobiographical and His-
torical Writings. Ed. Dean C. Jessee. Salt Lake City: Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, 1989.
Snow, Lorenzo. The Teachings of Lorenzo Snow, Fifth President of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints. Ed. Clyde J. Williams. Salt Lake City: Bookcraft, 1984.
Snyder, Gary. “For All.” Deep Ecology for the Twenty-First Century. Ed. George Sessions.
Berkeley: Shambhala, 1995. 462.
Snyder, Gary. “For All.” The Gary Snyder Reader: Prose, Poetry, and Translations. Wash-
ington, DC: Counterpoint, 2000. 504.
Soka Gakkai International-USA, Buddhist Learning Review: 2007 Study Guide. Santa
Monica, CA: SGI-USA, 2007.
Soka Gakkai International–USA. “What Is Nam-myoho-renge-kyo? How Does Chant-
ing Work?” See http://sgi-houston.org/faqs/. (Accessed December 7, 2014.)
Solomon, Arnold M. “Reform Judaism and the Mission unto the Nations.” The Cho-
sen People in America: A Study in Jewish Religious Ideology. Bloomington: Indiana
University Press, 1983. 53–72.
Solomon, Norman. Judaism: A Very Short Introduction. Oxford and New York: Oxford
University Press, 1996.
Solomon, Ted J. “The Response of Three New Religions to the Crisis in the Japanese
Value System.” Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion 16.1 (March 1977): 1–14.

References 417
Southern Poverty Law Center. “Aryan Nations on Verge of Collapse Following Judg-
ment.” Intelligence Report, Issue 100 (Fall 2000). See http://www.splcenter.org/
get-informed/intelligence-report/browse-all-issues/2000/fall/aryans-without-a-
nation. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Southern Poverty Law Center. “Aryan Nations Leader Richard Girnt Butler in Final Days
of Life: A life of hate, and the future in the balance.” Intelligence Report, Issue 91
(Summer 1998). See http://www.splcenter.org/get-informed/intelligence-report/
browse-all-issues/1998/summer/elder-statesman. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of Phoenix, Arizona, “Spiritual Assembly of the
Baha’is of Phoenix, Arizona.” 30th Annual Grand Canyon Baha’i Conference
(December 26, 2014): 3–4.
Starna, W. A., and G. R. Hamell. “History and the Burden of Proof: The Case of Iro-
quois Influence on the U.S. Constitution.” New York History 77 (1996): 427–452.
State of Louisiana. The Joint Legislative Committee on Un-American Activities, Report No.
3, 98–99 (n.d.).
Steigerwald, David. Wilsonian Idealism in America. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University-
Press, 1994.
Stephanson, Anders. Manifest Destiny: American Expansionism and the Empire of Right.
New York: Hill and Wang, 1995.
Stern, Chaim, ed. Gates of Prayer: The New Union Prayer Book. New York: Central Con-
ference of American Rabbis, 1975.
Stevens, Rabbi Elliot L. “The Prayer Books, They Are A’Changin’.” Reform Juda-
ism (Summer 2006). See http://urj.org//worship/mishkan/current//?syspage=
article&item_id=3588. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Stewart, Kathleen. “Bad Endings: American Apocalypsis.” Annual Review of Anthro-
pology 28 (1999): 285–310.
Stockman, Robert. “Redeemer Nation Revisited: The American Baha’i Sacred His-
tory of America.” Chapter 7. The Baha’i Faith and American Protestantism. Th.D.:
Harvard University, 1990.
Stockman, Robert. Thornton Chase: The First American Baha’i. Wilmette, IL: Baha’i
Publishing Trust, 2001.
Storch, Neil T. “John Ireland’s Americanism after 1899: The Argument from His-
tory.” Church History 51.4 (1982): 434–444.
Strand, Clark. “Faith in Revolution.” Tricycle (Winter 2008). See http://www.tri-
cycle.com/interview/faith-revolution. (Accessed December 13, 2014.)
Strand, Clark. Waking the Buddha: How the Most Dynamic and Empowering Buddhist
Movement in History is Changing Our Concept of Religion (Santa Monica, CA: Middle-
way Press, 2014).
Strong, Josiah. Our Country: Its Possible Future and Its Present Crisis. Astor, NY: Ameri-
can Home Missionary Society, 1885. An edited edition of Our Country was later
published as follows: Josiah Strong, Our Country: Its Possible Future and Its Present
Crisis. Ed. Jurgen Herbst. Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press, 1963.
Stuckey, Mary E., and Joshua R. Ritter. “George Bush, ‘Human Rights,’ and Ameri-
can Democracy.” Presidential Studies Quarterly 37.4 (December 2007): 646–666.
Swift, Wesley A. “The Children of the Beast.” See http://israelect.com/
ChurchOfTrueIsrael/swift/swchildbeast.html. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Swift, Wesley A. “Church of True Israel” (Sermons of Wesley A. Swift). See http://
israelect.com/ChurchOfTrueIsrael/swift/wsdindex.html. (Accessed October 19,
2014.)

418 References
Swift, Wesley A. “The Coming Liberation of America.” January 30, 1966. Formerly
online at http://www.israelect.com/reference/WesleyASwift/sermons/66-01-30.
htm. (No access on October 19, 2014.)
Swift, Wesley A. “What Really Happened in the Garden of Eden?” See http://
israelect.com/ChurchOfTrueIsrael/swift/sw-what-happened.html.
(Accessed
October 19, 2014.)
Talbot, David. “Terrorists Increasingly Turn to the Internet.” M.I.T. See http://www.
technologyreview.com/news/405352/terrorists-increasingly-turn-to-the-inter-
net/. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Talmage, James. A Study of the Articles of Faith: Being a Consideration of the Principal
Doctrines of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Salt Lake City: Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1976 [1890].
Tareen, Sophia. “A Spry Farrakhan Sings Obama’s Praises.” Associated Press, Feb-
ruary 24, 2008. See http://www.sun-sentinel.com/sfl-barackbash2-story.html.
(Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Taylor, Bron. “Environmental Ethics.” Encyclopedia of Religion and Nature, 1:597–608.
Taylor, C.J. Peace Walker: The Legend of Hiawatha and Tekanawita. Toronto: Tundra
Books, 2004.
Taylor, Wayne. “Premillennium Tension: Malcolm X and the Eschatology of the
Nation of Islam.” Souls 7.1 (Winter 2005): 52–65.
Teague, Tom. “From Farrakhan to New Philadelphia: Vibert White Embraces His-
tory at Every Crossroad.” Illinois Heritage 5.2 (March/April 2002): 6–10. Formerly
online at http://www.lib.niu.edu/2002/ih020306.html. (No access on October
19, 2014.)
“Tefilah Lememshalah/Prayer for the Country.” Kol Hanesshamah: Shabbat Vehagim.
Wyncote, PA: Reconstructionist Press, 1994. P. 418 [Hebrew, 419]. (Prayer from
Rabindranath Tagore [Adapted] on p. 419.)
[Tefilot Yisra’el]. Prayers of Israel, with an English Translation. 5th ed. New York: Henry
Frank, 1856. 198–199.
Terrill, Robert E. “Protest, Prophecy, and Prudence in the Rhetoric of Malcolm X.”
Rhetoric and Public Affairs 4.1 (2001): 25–53.
“Religion: The Old and the New.” Time magazine (Monday, June 25, 1945). See
http://content.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,797618,00.html.
(Accessed October 19, 2014.)
“Theodore Roosevelt: The Nobel Peace Prize 1906.” See http://www.nobelprize.
org/nobel_prizes/peace/laureates/1906/roosevelt-bio.html. (Accessed October
19, 2014.)
Thomas, Rhondda Robinson. Exodus: Literary Migrations of Afro-Atlantic Authors,
1760–1903. Ph.D. dissertation: University of Maryland, 2007.
Thompson, John A. Woodrow Wilson. London: Longman, 2002.
Thurman, Robert. “Christian Experiences with Buddhist Spirituality: A Response.”
Buddhist-Christian Studies 21.1 (2001): 69–72.
Thurman, Robert. Inner Revolution: Life, Liberty, and the Pursuit of Real Happiness. New
York: Putnam/Riverhead Books, 1998.
Tibet.net. “His Holiness the Dalai Lama.” (Was: “The Dalai Lama’s Biography.”) See
http://tibet.net/his-holiness/. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Toll, William. “Horace M. Kallen: Pluralism and American Jewish Identity.” American
Jewish History 85.1 (1997): 57–74.

References 419
“Top Ten LDS News Stories of 2007.” Deseret News, Thursday, January 17, 2008. See
http://www.deseretnews.com/article/695242682/Top-Ten-LDS-news-stories-
of-2007.html. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
“Torah Service. Siddur Sim Shalom, page 139.” See http://www.ohebshalom.org/_
media/resources/transtorah.pdf. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Tuveson, Ernest Lee. Redeemer Nation: The Idea of America’s Millennial Role. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press, 1968.
Twomey, D. Vincent. “Introduction” and “Chronology of the Life of Pope Benedict
XVI.” Essential Pope Benedict XVI: His Central Writings and Speeches. Ed. John F.
Thornton and Susan B. Varenne (New York: HarperCollins, 2008). xiii–xxxiv and
xxxv–xxxix.
Underwood, Grant. “Early Mormon Perceptions of Contemporary America: 1830–
1846.” Brigham Young University Studies 26 (Summer 1986): 49–61.
Underwood, Grant. The Millenarian World of Early Mormonism. Urbana/Chicago: Uni-
versity of Illinois, 1993.
Underwood, Grant. “Mormons and the Millennial World View.” Mormon Identities in
Transition. Ed. Douglas J. Davies. London: Cassell, 1996. 135–142.
United States Mint. “2010 Native American $1 Coin.” See http://www.usmint.gov/
mint_programs/nativeamerican/?action=2010NADesign. Accessed November
14, 2014.
Universal House of Justice. The Constitution of the Universal House of Justice. Haifa:
Baha’i World Centre, 1973.
Universal House of Justice. Letter to the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of
the United States (April 10, 2001). See http://bahai-library.com/uhj/feast.html.
(Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Universal House of Justice. The Promise of World Peace. Haifa: Baha’i World Centre,
October 1985.
Varacalli, Joseph A. Bright Promise, Failed Community: Catholics and the American Public
Order. Lanham, MD: Lexington Books, 2000.
Varacalli, Joseph A. “On Being Catholic American.” Homiletic and Pastoral Review.
August–September 2004. See http://ignatiusinsight.org/features2005/varacalli_
amcatholic_may05.asp. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Vecsey, Christopher. Imagine Ourselves Richly: Mythic Narratives of North American Indi-
ans. New York: Crossroad, 1988.
Vecsey, Christopher. “The Story and Structure of the Iroquois Confederacy.” Journal
of the American Academy of Religion 54.1 (Spring 1986): 79–106.
Vysotsky, Stanislav. “Understanding the Racist Right in the Twenty First Century: A
Typology of Modern White Supremacist Organizations.” Unpublished, Northeast-
ern University (January 10, 2004). 9. See http://home.comcast.net/~vysotsky.s/
Understanding.pdf. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Walbridge, John. God and Logic in Islam: The Caliphate of Reason. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press, 2011.
Wallace, Mike. The Hate That Hate Produced. Television documentary, 1959. See
https://archive.org/details/PBSTheHateThatHateProduced. (Accessed October
19, 2014.)
Wallace, Paul A.W. “Dekanahwideh.” Dictionary of Canadian Biography Online. Based
on the Dictionary of Canadian Biography/Dictionnaire biographique du Canada. Ed. John
English. Toronto and Montreal: University of Toronto and Université Laval, 1959.

420 References
Wallach, Glenn. Obedient Sons: The Discourse of Youth and Generations in American Cul-
ture, 1630–1860. Amherst: University of Massachusetts Press, 1997.
Walzer, Michael. “Who Is an American Jew?” Occasional Papers on Jewish Civilization,
Jewish Thought and Philosophy. Washington, DC: Program for Jewish Civilization,
Georgetown University, 2007. 8–15.
Ward, Allan L. 239 Days: ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s Journey in America. Wilmette, IL: Baha’i Pub-
lishing Trust, 1979.
Watson, Justin. The Christian Coalition: Dreams of Restoration, Demands for Recognition.
New York: St. Martin’s Press, 1997.
Weaver, Jace, ed. Defending Mother Earth: Native American Perspectives on Environmental
Justice. Maryknoll, NY: Orbis Books, 1996.
Webb, Stephen H. American Providence: A Nation with a Mission. New York: Contin-
uum, 2004.
Wenger, Beth S. History Lessons: The Creation of American Jewish Heritage. Princeton,
NJ: Princeton University Press, 2012.
Wenger, Beth S. “Making American Civilization Jewish: Mordecai Kaplan’s Civil
Religion.” Jewish Social Studies 12.2 (2006): 56–63.
West, Robin. “Ennobling Politics.” Law and Democracy in the Empire of Force. Ed. H.
Jefferson Powell and James Boyd White. Ann Arbor, MI: University of Michi-
gan Press, 2009. See http://www.press.umich.edu/pdf/9780472116843-ch3.pdf.
(Accessed October 19, 2014.)
White, Donald W. The American Century: The Rise and Decline of the United States as a
World Power. New Haven and London: Yale University Press, 1996.
White, Donald Wallace. The American Century: The Rise and Decline of the United States
as a World Power. New Haven and London: Yale University Press, 1996.
White, Richard. The Middle Ground: Indians, Empires, and Republics in the Great Lakes
Region. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1991.
White, Vibert L. Inside the Nation of Islam: A Historical and Personal Testimony by a Black
Muslim. University Press of Florida, 2000.
Wilber, Dr. Donald N. “Overthrow of Premier Mossadeq of Iran.” Washington, DC:
Central Intelligence Agency, March 1954. First published in an article written by
James Risen of The New York Times in its editions of April 16 and June 18, 2000.
See
http://www.nytimes.com/library/world/mideast/iran-cia-intro.pdf,
with
hyperlinks to each of the chapters. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Williams, Daniel K. God’s Own Party: The Making of the Christian Right. New York:
Oxford University Press, 2010.
Williams, Ray C., ed. “By the Hands of Wise Men”: Essays on the U.S. Constitution. Provo,
UT: Brigham Young University Press, 1979.
Wills, David W. “The Central Themes of American Religious History: Pluralism,
Puritanism, and the Encounter of Black and White.” Religion and Intellectual Life
5 (1987): 30–41. Reprinted in Timothy E. Fulop and Albert J. Raboteau, eds.,
African-American Religion: Interpretive Essays in History and Culture. New York/Lon-
don: Routledge, 1997. 7–20.
Wilson, Woodrow. “Presenting the Treaty for Ratification Address to the Senate
of the United States. July 19, 1919.” God’s New Israel: Religious Interpretations of
American Destiny. Ed. Conrad Cherry. Rev. ed. Chapel Hill: University of North
Carolina Press, 1998. 279–288.
Wilsey, John David. America as the City upon a Hill: An Historical, Philosophical, and
Theological Critique of the Historiographical Construal of America as a Christian Nation.

References 421
Ph.D. dissertation. Wake Forest, NC: Southeastern Baptist Theological Seminary,
2009.
Wilson, Woodrow. “Woodrow Wilson: The Man.” Journal of Education 79.16 (April
16, 1914): 427–428 [427].
Winn, Kenneth H. Exiles in a Land of Liberty: Mormons in America, 1830–1846. Chapel
Hill, NC: University of North Carolina Press, 1989.
Winthrop, John. Life and Letters of John Winthrop, Governor of the Massachusetts-Bay
Company at Their Emigration to New England, 1630. Ed. Robert Charles Winthrop.
Boston: Ticknor and Fields, 1864–1867. 18–20.
Winthrop, John. “A Model of Christian Charity.” God’s New Israel: Religious Interpreta-
tions of American Destiny. Ed. Conrad Cherry. Rev. ed. Chapel Hill: University of
North Carolina Press, 1998.
Wise, Isaac Mayer. “Our Country’s Place in History.” God’s New Israel: Religious Inter-
pretations of American Destiny. Ed. Conrad Cherry. Rev. ed. Chapel Hill: University
of North Carolina Press, 1998. 224–234.
Woocher, Jonathan S. “Spirituality and the Civil Religion.” Secularism, Spirituality,
and the Future of American Jewry. Ed. Elliott Abrams and David G. Dalin. Washing-
ton, DC: Ethics and Public Policy Center, 1999. 19–25.
Woodruff, Wilford. Conference Report (April 1898).
Woodruff, Wilford. The Discourses of Wilford Woodruff. Ed. G. Homer Durham. Salt
Lake City: Bookcraft, 1946.
World Heritage Committee. “World Heritage Site: Bahá’i Holy Places.” See http://
www.worldheritagesite.org/sites/bahaiholyplaces.html. (Accessed October 19,
2014.)
Yazdani, Enayatollah, and Rizwan Hussain. “United States’ Policy towards Iran after
the Islamic Revolution: An Iranian Perspective.” International Studies 43 (2006):
267–289.
Zagorin, Adam. “Khatami: American ‘Conceit and Pride’ Led to Iraq Mess.”
Time. September 8, 2006. See http://www.time.com/time/world/article/
0,8599,1533026,00.html. (Accessed October 19, 2014.)
Zakaria, Fareed. From Wealth to Power: The Unusual Origins of America’s World Role.
Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1998.
Zimmerman, John. “Sayyid Qutb’s Influence on the 11 September Attacks.” Terror-
ism and Political Violence 16.2 (April–June 2004): 222–252.
Ziolkowski, Eric J. Review of The World’s Parliament of Religions: An illustrated and
popular story of the world’s first Parliament of Religions, held in Chicago in connection
with the Columbian Exposition of 1893. Ed. John H. Barrows. Chicago: Parliament
Pub. Co., 1893. Journal of the American Academy of Religion 64.3 (Autumn 1996):
662–664.

About the Author
CHRISTOPHER BUCK publishes broadly as an independent scholar in a
wide range of fields, including American studies, Native American stud-
ies, African American studies, religious studies, Islamic studies, and Baha’i
studies.
Author of books God & Apple Pie (2015), which is the revised edition of
Religious Myths and Visions of America (2009), along with Alain Locke: Faith and
Philosophy (2005), Paradise & Paradigm (1999), Symbol & Secret (1995/2004),
and Religious Celebrations (edited by J. Gordon Melton, with Buck as co-
author, 2011), Dr. Buck has contributed book chapters to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
Journey West (2013), The Blackwell Companion to the Qur’an (2006/2015), The
Islamic World (2008), American Writers (2004/2010/2015), and British Writers
(2014), and has published various academic journal articles and encyclope-
dia articles as well.
A former university professor, Dr. Buck previously taught at Pennsyl-
vania State University (2011), Michigan State University (2000–2004),
Quincy University (1999–2000), Millikin University (1997–1999), and Car-
leton University (1994–1996). He currently practices law as an attorney in
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, where he lives with his wife, Nahzy Abadi Buck,
and his sons, Takur Buck, and Taraz Buck, Ph.D.

Cat sniffs apple pie during cover photo shoot. (Photo by David Smith.)