Religious Myths and
Visions of America
How Minority Faiths Redeﬁned
America’s World Role
Christopher Buck

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Buck, Christopher, 1950–
Religious myths and visions of America : how minority faiths redeﬁned America’s world role /
Christopher Buck
p. cm.
Includes bibliographical references (p. ) and index.
ISBN 978–0–313–35959–0 (alk. paper)
1. United States—Religion. 2. United States—History—Religious aspects. 3. Mythology—Political
aspects—United States—History. I. Title.
BL2525.B84 2009
200.973—dc22
2008046765
British Library Cataloguing in Publication Data is available.
Copyright © 2009 by Christopher Buck
All rights reserved. No portion of this book may be
reproduced, by any process or technique, without the
express written consent of the publisher.
Library of Congress Catalog Card Number: 2008046765
ISBN: 978–0–313–35959–0
First published in 2009
Praeger Publishers, 88 Post Road West, Westport, CT 06881
An imprint of Greenwood Publishing Group, Inc.
www.praeger.com
Printed in the United States of America
The paper used in this book complies with the
Permanent Paper Standard issued by the National
Information Standards Organization (Z39.48-1984).
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1

Contents
Acknowledgments
ix
Chapter 1: America: Nation and Notion
CIVIL MYTHS OF AMERICA AND CIVIL RELIGION
RELIGIOUS MYTHS AND VISIONS OF AMERICA
RACIAL MYTHS AND VISIONS OF AMERICA
Chapter 2: Native American Myths and Visions of America
THE TURTLE ISLAND MYTH AND THE MYTH OF “MOTHER EARTH”
THE DEGANAWIDAH LEGEND
THE IROQUOIS INFLUENCE THESIS: MYTH OR HISTORY?
Chapter 3: Protestant Myths and Visions of America
THE PURITAN MYTH OF AMERICA
THE “MANIFEST DESTINY” MYTH
THE “CURSE OF HAM” MYTH
THE AFRICAN AMERICAN EXODUS COUNTER-MYTH
Chapter 4: Catholic Myths and Visions of America
PAPAL PRAISE OF AMERICA
THE AMERICANIST MYTH OF AMERICA

PAPAL RESPONSES TO THE AMERICANIST MYTH OF AMERICA
CAN THE AMERICANIST MYTH OF AMERICA BECOME A REALITY?
Chapter 5: Jewish Myths and Visions of America
JEWISH VISIONS OF AMERICA AS A MIRROR OF JEWISH IDEOLOGIES
THE JEWISH MYTH OF AMERICA AS “THE PROMISED LAND”
THE JEWISH “MYTH OF COLUMBUS”
JEWISH PRAYERS FOR AMERICA: COMMUNAL VISIONS OF AMERICA
ORTHODOX JUDAISM’S TRADITIONAL PRAYER FOR THE GOVERNMENT
CONSERVATIVE JUDAISM’S VISION OF AMERICA
REFORM JUDAISM’S VISION OF AMERICA
RECONSTRUCTIONIST JUDAISM’S VISION OF AMERICA
JEWISH AMERICANISM: THE “CULT OF SYNTHESIS”
Chapter 6: Mormon Myths and Visions of America
THE GARDEN OF EDEN MYTH
THE LOST TRIBES MYTH
THE COLUMBUS MYTH
THE CONSTITUTION MYTH
THE FOUNDING FATHERS MYTH
THE THEODEMOCRACY MYTH
THE AMERICA AS ZION MYTH
THE MARK OF CAIN MYTH
Chapter 7: Christian Identity Myths and Visions of America
THE TWO-SEED MYTH
THE MUD RACES MYTH
THE LOST TRIBES MYTH
THE WHITE HOMELAND MYTH
THE RACIAL HOLY WAR MYTH
Chapter 8: Black Muslim Myths and Visions of America
THE YACUB MYTH
THE MOTHER PLANE MYTH
THE DESTRUCTION OF AMERICA MYTH
Chapter 9: Contemporary Muslim Myths and Visions of America
THE “GREAT SATAN” MYTH
THE “AXIS OF EVIL” COUNTER-MYTH
EFFORTS TO DISPEL THE “GREAT SATAN” MYTH AND TO MINIMIZE THE
FALLOUT FROM THE “AXIS OF EVIL” MYTH
Chapter 10: Buddhist Myths and Visions of America
SOKA GAKKAI’S MYTH OF “AMERICA’S SECOND RENAISSANCE”
ROBERT THURMAN’S MYTH OF AMERICA’S “SECOND RENAISSANCE”
vi
Contents

Contents
vii
THE DALAI LAMA’S “BUDDHIST DEMOCRACY” MYTH AND VISION OF
AMERICA’S WORLD ROLE
Chapter 11: Baha´’ı´ Myths and Visions of America
A BRIEF INTRODUCTION TO THE BAHA´’I´ FAITH
BAHA´’I´ MYTHS AS A “SACRED HISTORY” OF AMERICA
THE BAHA´’I´ EMANCIPATION/CIVIL WAR MYTH
THE BAHA´’I´ WILSONIAN MYTH
THE BAHA´’I´ VISION OF THE DESTINY OF AMERICA
Chapter 12: Conclusion: How Minority Faiths Redeﬁned America’s
World Role
RELIGIOUS MYTHS AND VISIONS OF AMERICA RECAPITULATED
AN OVERVIEW OF AMERICA’S WORLD ROLE
FINAL REFLECTIONS: A WORLD CIVIL RELIGION?
Notes
References
Index

CHAPTER 11
Bahá’í Myths and
Visions of America
The American people are indeed worthy of being the ﬁrst to build the Tabernacle
of the Great Peace, and proclaim the oneness of mankind. . . . For America hath
developed powers and capacities greater and more wonderful than other
nations. . . . Its future is even more promising, for its inﬂuence and illumination
are far-reaching. It will lead all nations spiritually.
—‘Abdu’l-Baha´ (1912)1
Exert yourselves; your mission is unspeakably glorious. Should success crown
your enterprise, America will assuredly evolve into a center from which waves
of spiritual power will emanate, and the throne of the Kingdom of God will, in
the plentitude of its majesty and glory, be ﬁrmly established.
—‘Abdu’l-Baha´ (1917)2
A
s the religious landscape of America continues to diversify, there is
one new religion that seeks to unify: the Baha´’ı´ Faith, which histori-
cally dates back to 1844.3 “The Baha´’ı´ Faith is the youngest of the
world’s independent religions,” states the ofﬁcial Web site of the Baha´’ıˆ
World Centre, located on Mount Carmel in Haifa, Israel.4 Established in
189 independent countries and 46 territories, the Baha´’ı´ community today
numbers around 5.5 million members, who hail from across the world’s races,
religions, and nations, including over 2,100 different ethnicities.5 The Baha´’ıˆ
Faith preaches a gospel of unity, and it has a global community to match and
to model the potentialities of its grander vision. The distinctive nature of the
Baha´’ı´ Faith is its emphasis on promoting the oneness of humankind and

bringing about world unity. “In every Dispensation, the light of Divine Guid-
ance has been focused upon one central theme,” proclaims ‘Abdu’l-Baha´
(1844–1921), son of and successor to Baha´’u’lla´h (1817–1892), prophet-
founder of the Baha´’ı´ Faith. “In this wondrous Revelation, this glorious cen-
tury, the foundation of the Faith of God and the distinguishing feature of
His Law is the consciousness of the Oneness of Mankind.” 6 This is the hall-
mark, the salient leitmotiv, the organizing principle, the moral basis, and the
grand vision of the Baha´’ı´ Faith as a whole. As such, Baha´’ı´s, whether in
America or abroad, are described as the “bearers of a new-born Gospel.” 7 A
previously little-known religion, the Baha´’ı´ Faith is emerging from obscurity,
as the following newsworthy items will demonstrate.
On July 8, 2008, the UNESCO World Heritage Committee determined that
two Baha´’ı´ shrines in Israel—the Shrine of the Ba´b on Mount Carmel in
Haifa, Israel, and the Shrine of Baha´’u’lla´h, located near Old Acre on Israel’s
northern coast, possess “outstanding universal value” and should be consid-
ered as part of the cultural heritage of humanity.8 Joining such other interna-
tionally recognized sites like the Great Wall of China, the Pyramids, the Taj
Mahal, Stonehenge, the Vatican, the Old City of Jerusalem, and the remains
of the recently destroyed Bamiyan Buddhist statues in Afghanistan, the
Baha´’ı´ shrines are the ﬁrst sites associated with a religious tradition born in
modern times to be added to the list. Similarly, in 2007 the State of Illinois
announced that the Baha´’ı´ House of Worship in Wilmette (north of Chicago)
had been voted one of the “Seven Wonders” of Illinois.9
Ideologically, the Baha´’ı´ perspective on the destiny of America should be
contextualized within the Baha´’ı´ paradigm of unity, and, more speciﬁcally,
within the Baha´’ı´ view of “sacred history” (or as systematic theologians of
Christian doctrine would term it, “salvation history”). That is to say, America
will fulﬁll a world-unifying purpose consonant with a larger civilizational
purpose for which the Baha´’ı´ religion sees its own instrumental role. Brieﬂy,
the Baha´’ı´ Faith is a world religion whose purpose is to unite all the races,
religions, and nations into one common homeland. Baha´’ı´s are the followers
of Baha´’u’lla´h, who essentially claimed to be a world messiah, fulﬁlling what
are believed to be convergent prophecies from historically prior world reli-
gions.10 In his epistle to Queen Victoria, written from his prison cell in ‘Akka´,
Palestine around 1870, Baha´’u’lla´h proclaims: “That which the Lord hath
ordained as the sovereign remedy and mightiest instrument for the healing
of all the world is the union of all its peoples in one universal Cause, one
common Faith.” 11 This, in part, is a statement about how it is now time for
the peoples of the world, as a whole, to recognize the essential oneness
humanity—and of the world religions as well—as the collective conscious-
ness needed to bring about world peace, and that this process will ultimately
validate all faiths.
Religious Myths and Visions of America

Bahá’í Myths and Visions of America
The Baha´’ı´ vision of the destiny of America is part of a grander vision of
social evolution, affecting the planet as a whole, which, in the course of
human events, will lead to a Golden Age of world unity—a unity character-
ized not by regimented uniformity, but by spectacular diversity within a
morally and technically advanced global civilization. The unity that the
Baha´’ı´ Faith promotes is a guarantor of diversity by fostering social environ-
ments where diversity can ﬂourish, thereby enriching the human experience.
As the epigraph above suggests, America “will lead all nations spiritually.”
What is the logic behind this claim? An even more basic question is this:
What is the character of this new religion that makes such an auspicious claim
regarding America?
A BRIEF INTRODUCTION TO THE BAHÁ’Í FAITH12
Before “social justice” served as the secular philosophy of modern democ-
racies, the great world religions had established ethical principles and social
laws for the ennobling of individuals and the ordering of societies. The Baha´’ı´
Faith claims to be “endowed with a system of law, precept, and institutions
capable of bringing into existence a global commonwealth ordered by princi-
ples of social justice.” 13 In the Baha´’i hierarchy of values, social justice is a
cardinal principle. As a collective ethical orientation, the Baha´’ı´ concept of
social justice is intimately linked with the principle of unity. “The purpose
of justice,” declared Baha´’u’lla´h, “is the appearance of unity among men.” 14
Unity, which is predicated on social justice, is thus the organizing principle of
the Baha´’ı´ system of values. As such, a Baha´’ı´ theory of social justice can be
articulated from the Baha´’ı´ sacred writings themselves, and ampliﬁed by ofﬁ-
cial Baha´’ı´ statements at the diplomatic level. A brief historical sketch of the
religion will render a phenomenology of its social justice/unity orientation
more meaningful.
The Baha´’ı´ Faith developed from its roots in the Ba´bı´ religion, a messianic
movement originating within Shı´‘a Islam, yet bearing all of the earmarks of a
new and independent religion.15 Baha´’ı´ history dates back to the evening
of May 22, 1844, in the city of Shı´ra´z in Persia (now Iran), when a young
merchant, Sayyid ‘Alı´-Muhammad, declared himself to be the Ba´b (1819–
1850), or “Gate”—that is, a messenger from God sent to proclaim the immi-
nent advent of one greater than himself. Religious and state persecution fell
upon him and his followers, leading to the torture and religious martyrdom
of many. After the Ba´b was executed by a ﬁring squad of 750 soldiers in the
barracks square of Tabriz on July 9, 1850, the majority of his correligionists,
the Ba´bı´s, turned to Mirza´ Husayn-‘Alı´ Nu´rı´—known as Baha´’u’lla´h (a spiri-
tual title, meaning the “Glory of God”)—as the messianic ﬁgure whose immi-
nent advent was the central religious message of the Ba´b.

Born to a high-ranking minister of the Sha´h in 1817 Tehran, Baha´’u’lla´h
was incarcerated in a subterranean dungeon in 1852—because he was a leader
of the proscribed Ba´bı´ religion—then was exiled to Baghdad in 1853, where
he remained until his subsequent exile to Istanbul (Constantinople) and
Edirne (Adrianople) in 1863, and from thence to the fortress prison of ‘Akka´
(Palestine, now Israel), where he arrived in August 1868. One of the signal
events of Baha´’u’lla´h’s ministry was the public proclamation of his mission,
the purpose of which was to unify the world through advanced social princi-
ples and new institutions. This proclamation may also be regarded as one of
the ﬁrst international peace missions of modern times. Beginning in Septem-
ber 1867, Baha´’u’lla´h addressed individual and collective epistles to world
leaders—including Queen Victoria, Kaiser Wilhelm I, Czar Alexander
Nicholas II of Russia, Emperor Napoleon III, Pope Pius IX, Emperor Franz
Joseph, Sultan ‘Abdu’l-Aziz, Nasiri’d-Din Sha´h, the presidents of the Amer-
icas collectively, among others—summoning them to disarmament, recon-
ciliation, justice, and the “Most Great Peace.” Baha´’u’lla´h also addressed
the leaders of the Zoroastrian, Jewish, Christian, and Muslim faiths, calling
them to religious reconciliation and recognition of Baha´’u’lla´h as the prom-
ised messiah of all religions.
Upon his death in 1892, Baha´’u’lla´h was succeeded, under the terms of his
will and testament, by his eldest son, ‘Abdu’l-Baha´, who further developed
the Baha´’ı´ community in gradual application of the laws and precepts that
Baha´’u’lla´h had laid down in his Most Holy Book (Arab, al-Kita´b al-Aqdas;
Persian, Kita´b-i Aqdas). When he was liberated by the Young Turks Revolu-
tion in 1908, ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ traveled to Europe, North Africa, and North
America to promulgate his father’s principles of social justice and unity. A
frequent theme of his public addresses was interracial harmony, interrreli-
gious reconciliation, and ideal international relations. He also promoted gen-
der equality and the establishment of adjudicative organs to resolve
international disputes. ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ lent great impetus to the spread of the
Baha´’ı´ Faith in America and abroad when he revealed his Tablets of the
Divine Plan in 1916. After his passing in 1921, and in accordance with the
terms of his will and testament, ‘Abdu’l-Baha´’s eldest grandson, Shoghi
Effendi (who was studying at Oxford University at the time), assumed leader-
ship of the Baha´’ı´ world until his death in 1957. Based on the Tablets of the
Divine Plan as a model for fostering systematic growth, Shoghi Effendi
(1897–1957) promulgated a series of expansive “Plans” for systematically
establishing Baha´’ı´ communities in a greater number of countries, territories,
and locales—and had the charisma to inspire their successful completion.
In his most important work (Kita´b-i Aqdas), Baha´’u’lla´h had called for the
establishment of a local House of Justice in every community. To distinguish
these from institutions with an agenda for political power, ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ gave
Religious Myths and Visions of America

Bahá’í Myths and Visions of America
them the temporary title of “Spiritual Assemblies.” Each nine-member local
and National Spiritual Assembly, elected annually by all of the adult Baha´’ı´s
in the respective local or national community, oversees the growth and wel-
fare of the Baha´’ı´ community within its jurisdiction, fosters unity among the
various elements of society, and furthers the work of social and economic
development.
In 1963, the Baha´’ı´ world had become sufﬁciently internationalized to elect
the ﬁrst Universal House of Justice (the world Baha´’ı´ governing body) in the
Royal Albert Hall in London. With its Seat located in the Baha´’ı´ World
Centre on Mt. Carmel in Haifa, Israel, the Universal House of Justice—
elected every ﬁve years by the members of all of the National Spiritual
Assemblies from around the world—administers the affairs of the Baha´’ı´
world and promotes Baha´’ı´ principles of justice and unity worldwide. As pub-
licly declared in its Constitution, the stated mission of the Universal House of
Justice is, inter alia: “to do its utmost for the realization of greater cordiality
and comity amongst the nations and for the attainment of universal peace”;
“to safeguard the personal rights, freedom and initiative of individuals”; “to
give attention to the preservation of human honour, to the development of
countries and the stability of states”; “to provide for the arbitration and settle-
ment of disputes arising between peoples”; “to foster that which is conducive
to the enlightenment and illumination of the souls of men and the advance-
ment and betterment of the world.” 16 These are some of the duties of the Uni-
versal House of Justice that are mandated in its charter document. In ﬁne, the
Universal House of Justice works to promote ideal international relations
through the application of Baha´’ı´ principles and practices at local, national,
and international levels.
The diplomatic work of the Baha´’ı´ Faith is carried out by the Universal
House of Justice, the Baha´’i International Community (BIC), and external
affairs representatives appointed by their respective National Spiritual
Assemblies. Ethics-based and religious nongovernmental organizations
(RNGOs) are playing increasingly signiﬁcant roles in their consultative col-
laborations with the United Nations. As an RNGO, the BIC represents a net-
work of 182 democratically elected National Spiritual Assemblies that act
on behalf of Baha´’ı´s worldwide. The BIC is the voice of the Baha´’ı´ commu-
nity in international affairs. The BIC focuses on four core areas, each of
which encompass social justice issues: (1) promotion of a universal standard
for human rights (2) advancement of women; (3) promotion of just and equi-
table global prosperity and (4) development of moral capabilities. The BIC
also defends the rights of Baha´’ı´s in countries where they are persecuted, such
as in Iran and Egypt.
As previously stated, Baha´’ı´ communities are established in 235 countries
and dependent territories, representing more than 2,100 different tribal, racial,

and ethnic groups. At present, the country with the greatest number of Baha´’ı´s
is India, where its magniﬁcent “Lotus Temple” just outside of New Delhi is
now said to be the most visited religious ediﬁce in the world. Although its
adherents number only 5.5 million, the Baha´’ı´ Faith is now the second most
widespread of the world’s independent religions, according to the World
Christian Encyclopedia17 and Encyclopedia Britannica Book of the Year
(1992). The statistical distribution of Baha´’ı´s worldwide may be studied by
consulting the Britannica yearbooks in their annual reports on religion.
Social justice is relative to prevailing social values. Yet out of this relativ-
ity, consensus may be reached by identifying common denominators. “Justice
. . . is a universal quality,” ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ stated in Paris on November 17,
1912. He added that “justice must be sacred, and the rights of all the people
must be considered.” 18 The Baha´’ı´ ethical commitment to social justice is
paramount. “The best beloved of all things in My sight is Justice,” Baha´’u’l-
la´h writes, “turn not away therefrom if thou desirest Me, and neglect it not
that I may conﬁde in thee.” “By its aid thou shalt see with thine own eyes
and not through the eyes of others, and shalt know of thine own knowledge
and not through the knowledge of thy neighbor,” Baha´’u’lla´h goes on to
say. “Ponder this in thy heart; how it behooveth thee to be. Verily justice is
My gift to thee and the sign of My loving-kindness. Set it then before thine
eyes.”19 The challenge for Baha´’ı´s, then, is to more systematically develop
Baha´’ı´ principles of social justice, to apply them within their own faith-
communities, and then to offer these practiced precepts as a model for wider
adoption. In his epistle to Queen Victoria (c. 1869), Baha´’u’lla´h endorsed par-
liamentary democracy as an ideal form of governance:
We have also heard that thou hast entrusted the reins of counsel into the hands of
the representatives of the people. Thou, indeed, hast done well. . . . O ye the
elected representatives of the people in every land! Take ye counsel together,
and let your concern be only for that which proﬁteth mankind and bettereth the
condition thereof, if ye be of them that scan heedfully.20
Referring to his own mission as that of a “World Reformer,” 21 Baha´’u’lla´h
promulgated social principles that are wider in scope than the process of
electing governments. Democracy is more than the election of governments;
it is the reﬁnement of governments as well.
The Baha´’ı´ community, in a measured participation in political democracy,
eschews partisan politics as polarizing and divisive. While exercising their
civic obligation in voting, individual Baha´’ı´s distance themselves from the
political theatre of party politics. Embracing many aspects of democracy, they
shun campaigning. Instead, Baha´’ı´s work within the body politic, applying
Baha´’ı´ principles to better society. These principles include, among others:
Religious Myths and Visions of America

Bahá’í Myths and Visions of America
(1) human unity; (2) social justice; (3) racial harmony; (4) interfaith co-
operation; (5) gender equality; (6) wealth equity (economic justice); (7) social
and economic development; (8) international law; (9) human rights; (10) free-
dom of conscience; (11) individual responsibility; (12) harmony of science
and religion; (13) international scientiﬁc cooperation; (14) international stan-
dards/world intercommunication; (15) international language; (16) universal
education; (17) environmentalism; (18) world commonwealth; (19) world tri-
bunal; (20) world peace; (21) search after truth; (22) oneness of religion;
(23) love of God; (24) nobility of character (acquiring virtues); (25) advancing
civilization (individual purpose); (26) work as worship; (27) ideal marriage;
(28) family values; (29) model communities; (30) religious teleology
(Progressive Revelation); (31) Baha´’ı´ doctrinal integrity; (32) Baha´’ı´ institu-
tional support (the “Covenant”); (33) promoting Baha´’ı´ values. These princi-
ples and practices work synergistically in concert to reﬁne moral character,
advance civilization, inspire new approaches to conﬂict resolution, and
endow human consciousness with a vibrant vision of social harmony.
In its June 4, 1992, presentation to the Plenary of the United Nations
Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED, Earth Summit ’92,
Rio de Janiero), the BIC has epitomized the foundation of social justice from
a Baha´’ı´ perspective: “The fundamental spiritual truth of our age is the one-
ness of humanity.” 22 (In Baha´’ı´ terminology, “oneness” means “unity.”) It
follows that “universal acceptance of this principle—with its implications
for social and economic justice, universal participation in non-adversarial
decision making, peace and collective security, equality of the sexes, and uni-
versal education—will make possible the reorganization and administration
of the world as one country, the home of humankind.” 23 Note the linkage that
such Baha´’ı´ statements strike between social justice and world unity. These
principles are comprehensive and perhaps may best be studied within a
framework suggested by ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ himself: “The teachings of Baha´’u’l-
la´h are the light of this age and the spirit of this century. Expound each of
them at every gathering:
The ﬁrst is investigation of truth,
The second, the oneness of mankind,
The third, universal peace,
The fourth, conformity between science and divine revelation,
The ﬁfth, abandonment of racial, religious, worldly and political prejudices,
prejudices which destroy the foundation of mankind,
The sixth is righteousness and justice,
The seventh, the betterment of morals and heavenly education,
The eighth, the equality of the two sexes,
The ninth, the diffusion of knowledge and education,
The tenth, economic questions, and so on and so forth.” 24

While space does not permit elaboration of these (and other) Baha´’ı´ princi-
ples of unity, many are fairly self-evident. They provide a necessary context
for understanding what lies behind the Baha´’ı´ vision of the destiny of
America. By Baha´’ı´ standards, America will be measured by its ability to fur-
ther unity at home and abroad, through developing an exemplary society
while instrumentally promoting world order.
BAHÁ’Í MYTHS AS A “SACRED HISTORY” OF AMERICA
There are actually a number of passages in Baha´’ı´ texts concerning the des-
tiny of America. They are too numerous to treat here. While many, these
statements reiterate salient themes. Throughout the remainder of this chapter,
some of these themes will be highlighted. First, the term “America,” as found
in Baha´’ı´ texts, needs to be contextualized geopolitically.
Various conﬁgurations of the term “America” have rather self-evident geo-
graphical distinctions, such as “the Americas,” “the Continent of America,”
“North America,” and then, “America,” which by itself most often is a meton-
ymy (or synonym) for the “United States of America.” Similarly, the meaning
of “America” in Baha´’ı´ texts is context dependent, in that “America” vari-
ously represents: (1) the United States (including Alaska); (2) the United
States and Canada; (3) North America; and (4) the Americas. In a talk deliv-
ered on September 5, 1912, at the St. James Methodist Church in Montreal,
Canada, ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ indicates that Canada shares much the same destiny
as the United States:
Praise be to God! I ﬁnd these two great American nations highly capable and
advanced in all that appertains to progress and civilization. These governments
are fair and equitable. The motives and purposes of these people are lofty and
inspiring. Therefore, it is my hope that these revered nations may become promi-
nent factors in the establishment of international peace and the oneness of the
world of humanity; that they may lay the foundations of equality and spiritual
brotherhood among mankind.25
This is a mission and mandate to both the United States and Canada alike,
indicating that “international peace and the oneness of the world of human-
ity” and laying the “foundations of equality and spiritual brotherhood among
mankind” is not the province of any one country alone, but—to varying
degrees according to the respective capacity of each—of all countries.
Returning to the meaning of “America” in Baha´’ı´ texts, one passage that
offers a prime example of a range of meanings that “America” adumbrates
(i.e., the United States, Canada, North America, and the Americas) is as
follows:
Religious Myths and Visions of America

Bahá’í Myths and Visions of America
The Ba´b had in His Qayyu´mu’l-Asma´, almost a hundred years previously,
sounded His speciﬁc summons to the “peoples of the West” to “issue forth” from
their “cities” and aid His Cause. Baha´’u’lla´h, in His Kita´b-i-Aqdas, had collec-
tively addressed the Presidents of the Republics of the entire Americas, bidding
them arise and “bind with the hands of justice the broken,” and “crush the
oppressor” with the “rod of the commandments” of their Lord, and had, more-
over, anticipated in His writings the appearance “in the West” of the “signs of
His Dominion.” ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ had, on His part, declared that the “illumination”
shed by His Father’s Revelation upon the West would acquire an “extraordinary
brilliancy,” and that the “light of the Kingdom” would “shed a still greater illu-
mination upon the West” than upon the East. He had extolled the American con-
tinent in particular as “the land wherein the splendors of His Light shall be
revealed, where the mysteries of His Faith shall be unveiled,” and afﬁrmed that
“it will lead all nations spiritually.” More speciﬁcally still, He had singled out
the Great Republic of the West, the leading nation of that continent, declaring
that its people were “indeed worthy of being the ﬁrst to build the Tabernacle of
the Most Great Peace and proclaim the oneness of mankind,” that it was
“equipped and empowered to accomplish that which will adorn the pages of
history, to become the envy of the world, and be blest in both the East and
the West.” 26
In this chapter, “America” will be understood to mean the United States of
America. In a word, the place of America in the grand scheme of things is
intimately bound up with the purpose of the existence of the Baha´’ı´ Faith
itself: world unity. It should be added that “world unity” is an outcome of
an integrated approach to social and economic development, equitable man-
agement of world resources, the potentializing of human resources through
advanced educational strategies, effective conﬂict resolution, and the spiritual
awakening of societies as a whole. The earliest mention of “America” in the
Baha´’ı´ Writings occurs in a passage, the context of which indicates that
“America” stands for what today would be commonly referred to as “the
Americas,” or the Western Hemisphere. In 1873, Baha´’u’lla´h addressed the
rulers and leaders of the Americas in the single most important Baha´’ı´ text,
the Most Holy Book (Kita´b-i Aqdas):
Hearken ye, O Rulers of America and the Presidents of the Republics therein,
unto that which the Dove is warbling on the Branch of Eternity: “There is none
other God but Me, the Ever-Abiding, the Forgiving, the All-Bountiful.” Adorn
ye the temple of dominion with the ornament of justice and of the fear of God,
and its head with the crown of the remembrance of your Lord, the Creator of
the heavens. Thus counselleth you He Who is the Dayspring of Names, as bid-
den by Him Who is the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. The Promised One hath
appeared in this gloriﬁed Station, whereat all beings, both seen and unseen, have
rejoiced. . . . Bind ye the broken with the hands of justice, and crush the

oppressor who ﬂourisheth with the rod of the commandments of your Lord, the
Ordainer, the All-Wise.27
This passage was written in 1873 or shortly prior to that. Serving as presi-
dents (or as prime minister, as in the case of Canada) of the countries of the
Americas in 1872 were the following (with nations listed alphabetically): Do-
mingo Faustino Sarmiento, president of Argentina; John A. Macdonald,
prime minister of Canada; Federico Erra´zuriz Zanartu, president of Chile;
Eustorgio Salgar and Manuel Murillo Toro, presidents of Colombia; Toma´s
Guardia Gutie´rrez, president of Costa Rica; Buenaventura Ba´ez, president
of the Dominican Republic; Gabriel Garcı´a Moreno, president of Ecuador;
Justo Ruﬁno Barrios, president of Guatemala; Nissage Saget, president of
Haiti; Benito Jua´rez and Sebastia´n Lerdo de Tejada, presidents of Mexico;
Jose´ Vicente Cuadra, president of Nicaragua; Francisco Solano Lo´pez,
president of Paraguay; Manuel Pardo, president of Peru; Ulysses S. Grant,
president of the United States of America; Lorenzo Batlle y Grau and Toma´s
Gomensoro, presidents of Uruguay; and Antonio Guzma´n Blanco, president
of Venezuela.28 Here, the admonition to “bind ye the broken with the hands
of justice, and crush the oppressor” would naturally devolve upon the United
States of America, of which Ulysses S. Grant was president, as well as the
other countries of the Western Hemisphere, as every nation has this obliga-
tion to safeguard and to promote the commonweal of its own citizens.
According to Shoghi Effendi, not only were “the Rulers of America” sig-
niﬁcantly “spared the ominous and emphatic warnings” that Baha´’u’lla´h had
“uttered against the crowned heads of the world,” but “upon the sovereign rul-
ers of the Western Hemisphere” was conferred the “distinction” of exhorting
them to “bring their corrective and healing inﬂuence to bear upon the injus-
tices perpetrated by the tyrannical and the ungodly.” 29 “Had this Cause been
revealed in the West,” Baha´’u’lla´h is reported to have said in the untranslated
portion of Nabı´l’s Narrative (an authoritative account of Ba´bı´ and early
Baha´’ı´ history), “had Our verses been sent from the West to Persia and other
countries of the East, it would have become evident how the people of the
Occident would have embraced Our Cause.” 30 It is clear that Baha´’u’lla´h
saw greater capacity and receptivity to his sociomoral principles in the West
than in the East. Above and beyond those passages that clearly foreshadow
the “signs of His dominion” in the West, Shoghi Effendi points to the “no less
signiﬁcant verbal afﬁrmations” in which Baha´’u’lla´h, “according to reliable
eyewitnesses,” had “more than once made in regard to the glorious destiny
which America was to attain in the days to come.” 31 So, while no direct
writing by Baha´’u’lla´h regarding the destiny of America is extant, reliable
sources provide sufﬁcient attestation of Baha´’u’lla´h’s oral statements regard-
ing America’s promise and future preeminence.
Religious Myths and Visions of America

Bahá’í Myths and Visions of America
Subsequent to Baha´’u’lla´h was ‘Abdu’l-Baha´, who, after his father,
Baha´’u’lla´h, had passed away in 1892, led the Baha´’ı´ world until he himself
left this mortal world in 1921, when he was succeeded by his grandson, the
Oxford-educated Shoghi Effendi. Both ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ and Shoghi Effendi
had some profound thoughts about the destiny of America. In the course of
their respective pronouncements on America, certain characterizations of
American history and America’s world role were articulated in order to regis-
ter particular points, as the rhetoric and rationale of those comments occa-
sionally dictated. Such glosses on America gave rise to sometimes idealized
representations and, at time, generalized critiques of America as well—all
of which, taken together, comprise what may well be described, for the pur-
poses of this book at least, as the Baha´’ı´ myths and visions of America.
According to historian Robert Stockman, American Baha´’ı´s, on the basis of
these various pronouncements, have articulated a grand myth of America,
which incorporates Baha´’ı´ ideals: “The American Baha´’ı´s utilized the historic
events and basic principles of their new religion to deﬁne a new myth of
America, one that contained much of the conﬁdence and optimism of the tra-
ditional Protestant view of America as a ‘redeemer nation.’ ” 32 Stockman
elaborates further:
Like any religious group, the American Baha´’ı´s have constructed a sacred his-
tory, or myth, about their country. This sacred history is primarily based on the
values found in Baha´’ı´ scripture and does not appear to be borrowed from
American Protestantism or secular culture to a signiﬁcant degree. However, the
Baha´’ı´ myth’s concept of America’s uniqueness, its view of the possible future
greatness of America, and its consequent critique of current American social
conditions bear some remarkable parallels to the Protestant myth.33
Here, by religious “myth,” Stockman means a “sacred history.” No one
should misconstrue the meaning of the term, “myth.” Stockman is careful to
explain that the terms “sacred history” and “myth” are, here at least, used
“synonymously.” These terms denote a “theologically based understanding
of the importance of the events of history.” Since history cannot possibly
record every single fact, consequently “historians must sift through facts
and select only those that are most relevant to their studies.” This selection
process necessarily includes “a strong element of judgment and bias based
on one’s methods, ideological assumptions, and interests.” A sacred history
is no exception, for “it is distinguished by the use of theological beliefs as
the primary selection criteria for the inclusion of facts.” In Stockman’s and
the present writer’s use of these more or less interchangeable terms, a caveat
is in order: the “use of the word myth is not meant to suggest that a sacred
history is untrue,” but simply a way “to give religious meaning to mundane
events.” 34

The speciﬁc parallel with the Protestant myth of America that Robert
Stockman adduces is with America’s world role as “redeemer nation.” Earlier
in the present book, the Protestant “master myth” of America has been
described several times as a mandate “to colonize, Christianize, and civilize”
and is closely associated with the doctrine of Manifest Destiny. This would
seem to be very different from the “redeemer nation” vision alluded to in
the passages above from Stockman’s work. It is important not to associate
the Baha´’ı´ view with the superiority and prejudice inherent in “colonize,
Christianize, and civilize.” Rather, the emphasis here is on America’s
redemptive role: Stockman particularly alludes to a classic work in American
studies, Ernest Lee Tuveson’s Redeemer Nation: The Idea of America’s Mil-
lennial Role,35 in which the idea of redemptive mission—which has moti-
vated so much of American foreign policy—is as old as the Republic itself.
Tuveson traces the development of this aspect of the American heritage from
its Puritan origins, and tracks the idea of America’s mission and the millenar-
ian ideal through successive stages of American history.
Americanist Deborah Madsen, succinctly recapitulates this notion of
America as a “redeemer nation.” America began as an experiment in theoc-
racy (the reign of God). Puritans of the Massachusetts Bay Colony believed
that God intervened in human history to effect the salvation not only of indi-
viduals but also entire nations. Thus, the Puritans believed that the New
World, and the Puritans themselves, had been singled out by God and were
charged with a special destiny—to establish model Christian community for
the rest of the world to emulate. Madsen explains that
this idea of ecclesiastical perfection combined with millennial expectations and
gave rise to the theory that here in the New World the puriﬁed church would cre-
ate the conditions for Christ’s return to earth. The mission that inspired the Mas-
sachusetts Bay colonists was then charged with exceptional importance and
urgency.36
The New World is thus the last and best hope for a fallen humanity that
has only to look to the sanctiﬁed church in America for redemption.
Consequently,
America and Americans are special, exceptional, because they are charged with
saving the world from itself and, at the same time, America and Americans must
sustain a high level of spiritual, political and moral commitment to this excep-
tional destiny—America must be as “a city upon a hill” exposed to the eyes of
the world.37
In Madsen’s view, exceptionalism is an integral and distinctive feature of
the American experience: “This concept has generated a self-consciousness
Religious Myths and Visions of America

Bahá’í Myths and Visions of America
and degree of introspection that is unique to American culture.” 38 The doc-
trine of America as a redeemer nation later developed into “an unquestioning
belief in the doctrine of Manifest Destiny, a profound commitment to the
inevitability of American expansion and an uncompromising vision of
America as the redeemer nation committed to extending the domain of free-
dom and America’s control over it” 39 as well as a “racialised interpretation
of national destiny” (i.e., American Anglo-Saxonism).40 Under this analysis,
Stockman’s parallel is valid insofar as the Puritan ethic is concerned, but must
be distanced from its pejorative transmogriﬁcation into the doctrine of Mani-
fest Destiny. Indeed, a Baha´’ı´ view of America as a “redeemer nation” could
only come about if America ﬁrst redeems itself from the materialism and
moral laxity that represents the very antithesis of the Puritan vision.
America is not the only country that is the subject of a Baha´’ı´ sacred his-
tory. Stockman points out that there are Baha´’ı´ sacred histories about other
countries as well:
The American Baha´’ı´ sacred history is not a unique phenomenon; Baha´’ı´ sacred
histories of Germany, Russia, China, India, Japan, Iran, Canada, and other coun-
tries undoubtedly have been created by the Baha´’ı´s of those countries, based on
statements about those nations in the Baha´’ı´ scriptures. A folk tradition is inevi-
table whenever the Baha´’ı´ religion is introduced to a new culture or nation.41
As for the Baha´’ı´ myth of America, Stockman further notes that “the creation
of an American Baha´’ı´ sacred history inevitably represents an act of social
criticism as well, for some events in American history are negatively valued,
such as America’s persistent streak of racism, its materialism, and its exces-
sive and isolationist nationalism.” 42 This is an important observation,
because, as will be discussed below, there are certain American social prob-
lems that have drawn recurrent criticism in Baha´’ı´ texts. For instance, the
problem of racism in the United States is termed, in the Baha´’ı´ Writings, as
“the most challenging issue.” In an ofﬁcial position statement issued in
1991 by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha´’ı´s of the United
States43—entitled, The Vision of Race Unity: America’s Most Challenging
Issue—the problem of racism in America is framed so:
Racism is the most challenging issue confronting America. A nation whose
ancestry includes every people on earth, whose motto is E pluribus unum, whose
ideals of freedom under law have inspired millions throughout the world, cannot
continue to harbor prejudice against any racial or ethnic group without betraying
itself. Racism is an affront to human dignity, a cause of hatred and division, a
disease that devastates society. Notwithstanding the efforts already expended
for its elimination, racism continues to work its evil upon this nation.

The American audience is in full view here, where racism is characterized
as fundamentally un-American, facially contradicting America’s celebrated
motto, which translates, “Out of many, One.” Therefore, unity is faithful to
the America ideal, whereas racism tears at America’s social fabric. America
has no spiritual destiny so long as rampant racism remains. The persistence
of racism, even in its most subtle forms (what sociologists have termed,
“polite racism”), retards America’s social advancement, and vitiates its moral
authority under the close watch of the community of nations. Further in this
statement, the National Spiritual Assembly connects the fostering of racial
harmony—seen as the divinely ordained antidote to racism—with the destiny
of America:
Aware of the magnitude and the urgency of the issue, we, the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Baha´’ı´s of the United States, speaking for the entire U.S. Baha´’ı´
community, appeal to all people of goodwill to arise without further delay to
resolve the fundamental social problem of this country. We do so because of
our feeling of shared responsibility, because of the global experience of the
Baha´’ı´ community in affecting racial harmony within itself, and because of the
vision that the sacred scriptures of our Faith convey of the destiny of America.
America’s prospective leadership in international affairs must be grounded
in domestic social policy that other nations may regard as exemplary and as a
model to follow. Of course, this cannot happen unless and until America suc-
ceeds in eradicating racism and promoting interracial harmony. Stockman
registers one more point: “In this way the sacred history becomes a spur to
Baha´’ı´ efforts to reform society. It also helps American Baha´’ı´s to form an
American identity that is congruent with the Baha´’ı´ scriptures.” 44 In other
words, if America solves its racial crisis at home, it will then gain the moral
authority to promote similar social cohesion abroad.
THE BAHÁ’Í EMANCIPATION/CIVIL WAR MYTH
The year 1912 was the year that ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ came to America. On just
his tenth day in America—Saturday, April 20—‘Abdu’l-Baha´ arrived in
Washington, D.C., and stayed until Sunday, April 28. On Tuesday morning,
April 23, ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ spoke in Rankin Chapel at Howard University. Well
over a thousand faculty, administrators, students, and guests45 crowded
the relatively small space of this modest chapel to hear him speak. In this his-
toric speech, ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ draws on American history (or a certain view of
it) in order to promote unity between the races: “The ﬁrst proclamation of
emancipation [the Emancipation Proclamation] for the blacks was made by
the whites of America. How they fought and sacriﬁced until they freed the
blacks! Then it spread to other places.” ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ further states that
Religious Myths and Visions of America

Bahá’í Myths and Visions of America
the Emancipation Proclamation was followed by the Europeans, and had a
liberating impact on Africans as well, such that “Emancipation Proclamation
became universal.” 46
In this general statement, ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ evidently points to some of the
political and social effects of the Emancipation Proclamation (and its later
developments) as a reﬂex of American exemplarism abroad, as well as at
home. To idealize the Civil War is to mythologize it. Here, ‘Abdu’l-Baha´
mythologizes the Civil War by essentializing it. This Civil War myth, like
most myths, serves as a vehicle of a social and moral truth: the need for inter-
racial unity. ‘Abdu’l-Baha´’s observations, as quoted above, had their basis in
later developments in the Civil War and beyond.
On January 1, 1863, President Abraham Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclama-
tion was promulgated—although Lincoln arguably had no constitutional
authority to actually free slaves. (By dint of his authority as commander in
chief, the Proclamation was technically a military order.) Its reach was not
universal, as it legally freed slaves only in the Southern states. The Emancipa-
tion Proclamation was the precursor of the Thirteenth Amendment. On
December 18, 1865, Congress’s Thirteenth Amendment freed slaves nation-
ally. The Thirteenth Amendment abolished slavery, and thus radically altered
the U.S. Constitution, as part of what some legal scholars call the “Second
Constitution.” Ironically, ratiﬁcation of the Thirteenth Amendment marks
the ﬁrst time that the word “slavery” appeared in the Constitution, even
though the Constitution had explicitly protected slavery. ‘Abdu’l-Baha´’s
statement, therefore, would presumably adumbrate the Thirteenth Amend-
ment as an extension of Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclamation.
Originally known as the “Abolition Amendment,” the intent of the Thir-
teenth Amendment was to give practical effect to the Declaration of Inde-
pendence’s self-evident truths “that all men are created equal; that they are
endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these,
are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.” Of course, such unalienable
rights did not extend to aliens (noncitizens), which is why the Fourteenth
Amendment (1868) had, perforce, to precede the Fifteenth, by granting citi-
zenship to anyone born or naturalized in the United States.
Under Section 2, which legal scholars call the Enforcement Clause, the
Thirteenth Amendment was also supposed to eradicate any vestiges of forced
labor (“badges and incidents of servitude”). Thus, to enforce the Thirteenth
Amendment, Congress quickly passed the Civil Rights Act of 1866 (over
President Andrew Johnson’s veto), the Slave Kidnapping Act of 1866, the
Peonage Act of 1867, and the Judiciary Act of 1867. But a series of Supreme
Court decisions during Reconstruction effectively emasculated the Amend-
ment, through crabbed interpretation and curtailed application. With the
splendid exception of peonage cases, the Thirteenth Amendment remained a

dead letter under segregationist Supreme Court rulings like Plessy v. Fergu-
son, which used color as a badge for discrimination while professing an
“equal but separate” doctrine. One reason for this is that the Thirteenth
Amendment was deﬁcient in that it lacked any formal recognition of equality
under the law. This defect would later be cured by enactment of the Equal
Protection Clause under the Fourteenth Amendment.
The Thirteenth Amendment is far more than an emancipation law. Through
its enforcement power, it is also a civil rights instrument, although rarely used.
The social transformation that the framers of the Thirteenth Amendment had
envisioned could only be achieved where the federal government could
enforce freedom. Sadly, it took over a century for the Supreme Court to dis-
cover in the Thirteenth Amendment a fresh constitutional source of power
for enforcing certain civil rights. The landmark decision of Jones v. Alfred
H. Mayer Co., 392 U.S. 409 (1968), restored the civil rights value of the
Amendment and transformed it into a potentially potent civil rights instru-
ment. Jones established Congress’s power to enact legislation against private
racial discrimination. Today, the Thirteenth Amendment arguably remains a
little-used, but potentially important, federal power for enforcing civil rights
against all vestiges of slavery that reincarnate as racial discrimination.
Alexander Tsesis, who may be today’s leading authority on the Thirteenth
Amendment, observes that each new generation must reexamine the nation’s
past, its core documents, and its moral progress as a constitutional democracy.
Such legislation, alone, cannot solve the racial crisis that continues to affect
America, even though such discrimination has taken on subtle forms—what
sociologists generally term, “polite racism.” Abolition of slavery, after all,
is not freedom from all oppression. Slavery’s roots are deep in American his-
tory, and are not yet fully extirpated. Racism is a ghost of the slaver’s psyche,
and legislation alone cannot humanify the heart. Baha´’ı´ texts are fully alive to
this problem, which is why, according to ‘Abdu’l-Baha´, Whites should
“endeavor to promote your advancement and enhance your honor,” referring
to African Americans. “Differences between black and white will be com-
pletely obliterated; indeed, ethnic and national differences will all disap-
pear.” 47 There is an element of prophecy in ‘Abdu’l-Baha´’s prediction that
racial, ethnic, and national differences would, in the future, vanish as socially
repugnant. Just about any prophecy requires mechanisms for its fulﬁllment.
Accordingly, ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ invites his audience to build on history by making
history, in commencing a new era of racial harmony.
On Wednesday, April 24, 1912—the day after speaking in Rankin Chapel
at Howard University—‘Abdu’l-Baha´ said, at a Baha´’ı´-sponsored interracial
meeting: “A meeting such as this seems like a beautiful cluster of precious
jewels—pearls, rubies, diamonds, sapphires. It is a source of joy and delight.
In the clustered jewels of the races may the blacks be as sapphires and rubies
Religious Myths and Visions of America

Bahá’í Myths and Visions of America
and the whites as diamonds and pearls. How glorious the spectacle of real
unity among mankind! This is the sign of the Most Great Peace; this is the star
of the oneness of the human world.” Throughout his travels and speaking
engagements in the United States and Canada, ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ continued to
stress the vital importance of race unity for America and for the world.
THE BAHÁ’Í WILSONIAN MYTH
In the Baha´’ı´ vision of America, America’s world role is to foster ideal
international relations. Such world diplomacy and international cooperation
will, in turn, prove hugely instrumental in unifying the world (which, after
all, is the principal purpose of the Baha´’ı´ Faith). In its religious myth (or,
sacred history) of America, several Baha´’ı´ texts single out, for distinction, an
American president who tried to do exactly that: Woodrow Wilson. Indeed,
President Wilson was a “statesman whose vision both ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ and
Shoghi Effendi have praised.” 48 These passages lionize President Woodrow
Wilson by focusing exclusively on his legacy as an internationalist. Such
praise is both deserved and controversial. Wilson is immortalized in history
as an internationalist who championed the formation of the League of Nations
(precursor of the United Nations). Historians generally agree that Woodrow
Wilson, in so doing, was the ﬁrst U.S. president to deﬁne America’s world role.
This largely explains why Baha´’ı´ sources attach considerable religious signiﬁ-
cance to President Wilson. Yet Wilson was also a racist, which fact ﬁnds no
purchase in the Wilsonian idealism given such prominence in Baha´’ı´ texts.
Shoghi Effendi states that Wilson holds a special place as the most honored
statesman in the Baha´’ı´ writings:
To her President, the immortal Woodrow Wilson, must be ascribed the unique
honor, among the statesmen of any nation, whether of the East or of the West,
of having voiced sentiments so akin to the principles animating the Cause of
Baha´’u’lla´h, and of having more than any other world leader, contributed to
the creation of the League of Nations—achievements which the pen of the
Center of God’s Covenant [‘Abdu’l-Baha´] acclaimed as signalizing the dawn
of the Most Great Peace.49
Note that the passage distinguishes this American president as “the immortal
Woodrow Wilson,” notwithstanding the fact that Wilson was an erstwhile
racist. While racism is absolutely antithetical to Baha´’ı´ principles of unity,
the Baha´’ı´ Woodrow Wilson myth is consistent with the function of myth-
making in general, which is to confer meaning and inspire action. Myths, after
all, are about storytelling in order to moralize and incentivize, not to memori-
alize the naked facts for their own sake. Here, the purpose of idealizing the
past is to inspire an ideal future.

In a word, Wilsonian idealism is internationalism.50 A comparison of Wil-
sonian idealism and Baha´’ı´ principles shows a powerful resonance that is
nothing short of resounding harmonics. Stephen Skowronek condenses and
characterizes Wilsonian idealism as effectively as any of his predecessors
have done, if not more so:
“Peace without victory”; self-determination; the equality of states; renunciation
of indemnities and annexations; rejection of the balance of power; promotion
of the community of powers, of collective security under a league of nations,
of a world safe for democracy—these were the principles Wilson enunciated in
1917, and these were the principles that catapulted him into the top ranks of
democratic visionaries in world history.51
On these resonances between Wilsonian internationalism and Baha´’ı´ prin-
ciples of ideal international relations leading to world unity, ‘Abdu’l-Baha´,
observed: “As to President Wilson, the fourteen principles which he hath
enunciated are mostly found in the teachings of Baha´’u’lla´h and I therefore
hope that he will be conﬁrmed and assisted.” 52 In ‘Abdu’l-Baha´’s estimation,
Wilson’s enlightened internationalism attracted divine favor:
The President of the Republic, Dr. Wilson, is indeed serving the Kingdom of
God for he is restless and strives day and night that the rights of all men may
be preserved safe and secure, that even small nations, like greater ones, may
dwell in peace and comfort, under the protection of Righteousness and Justice.
This purpose is indeed a lofty one. I trust that the incomparable Providence will
assist and conﬁrm such souls under all conditions.53
Thus, in the Baha´’ı´ view, President Wilson’s principles of internationalism
were providentially inspired. According to Shoghi Effendi, the “ideals that
ﬁred the imagination of America’s tragically unappreciated President” were
“acclaimed as signalizing the dawn of the Most Great Peace” by “‘Abdu’l-
Baha´, through His own pen.” 54
Such is the Wilsonian Myth. Yet the Baha´’ı´ writings do not idealize Wilson
so much as they champion Wilsonian idealism.55 In lionizing Wilson the
statesman, and in overlooking Wilson the racist, the Baha´’ı´ Wilsonian myth
lives up to the purpose of a religious myth of America, as idealized or sacral-
ized history exemplifying key precepts and practices.
THE BAHÁ’Í VISION OF THE DESTINY OF AMERICA
In 2001, there came a moment in time when the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Baha´’ı´s of the United States (elected governing council of
the American Baha´’ı´ community) decided to offer a perspective on the
Religious Myths and Visions of America

Bahá’í Myths and Visions of America
destiny of America as the promoter of world peace. At a time of national crisis
following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the National Spiritual
Assembly published a full-page display ad, “The Destiny of America and
the Promise of World Peace,” which appeared on page A29 in the New York
Times on December 23, 2001.56 This 645-word document highlights six pre-
requisites for world peace: (1) promoting “universal acceptance” of the one-
ness of humanity to realize world peace; (2) eradicating racism (“a major
barrier to peace”) to achieve racial harmony; (3) fostering “the emancipation
of women” to achieve “full equality of the sexes”; (4) greatly reducing the
“inordinate disparity between rich and poor”; (5) transcending “unbridled
nationalism” and inculcating “a wider loyalty” to “humanity as a whole”;
(6) overcoming “religious strife” to enjoy harmony among religions.57 The
full-page display ad was later reprinted in dozens of newspapers around the
country.
While the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks are not explicitly men-
tioned in the proclamation, they are implied in the words, “At this time of
world turmoil.” 58 How true this statement was. Americans, particularly, were
still in a state of shock. America, under direct attack, was understandably
alarmed. Thus “9/11” was, and remains, a deeply disturbing experience for
the American nation. If the American Baha´’ı´s had anything to say, this was
the time to say it: “The United States Baha´’ı´ community,” the ad goes on to
say, “offers a perspective on the destiny of America as the promoter of world
peace.” 59
This Baha´’ı´ proclamation introduces the American public to “Baha´’u’lla´h,
the founder of the Baha´’ı´ Faith,” who, “addressing heads of state, proclaimed
that the age of maturity for the entire human race had come.” This refers to
what the present writer calls the ﬁrst international peace mission in modern
history. The proclamation of Baha´’u’lla´h took place primarily in the years
1867–1870. During this time, Baha´’u’lla´h addressed epistles to, inter alia, Kai-
ser Wilhelm I, Tsar Alexander II, Emperor Napoleon III, Pope Pius IX, Queen
Victoria, Emperor Franz Joseph, Sultan Abdul-Aziz, and the king of Iran,
Nasiri’d-Dı´n Sha´h. Speaking of the peace proposals and principles of ideal
international relations that Baha´’u’lla´h communicated to the reigning pontiff
and potentates, ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ (Baha´’u’lla´h’s eldest son, successor, and inter-
preter), commented: “These precepts were proclaimed by Baha´’u’lla´h many
years ago. He was the ﬁrst to create them in the hearts as moral laws. Writing
to the sovereigns of the world, he summoned them to universal brotherhood,
proclaiming that the hour for unity had struck—unity between countries, unity
between religions.” 60 The Baha´’ı´ Faith promotes peace as a direct extension
of the fact that its founder, Baha´’u’lla´h, dedicated his life to the cause of world
peace and promulgated the principles necessary to achieve it.

TheTimes display ad places Baha´’u’lla´h’s messages to the kings and rulers
of the world in this perspective: “The unity of humankind was now to be
established as the foundation of the great peace that would mark the highest
stage in humanity’s spiritual and social evolution. Revolutionary and world-
shaking changes were therefore inevitable.” “The Destiny of America and
the Promise of World Peace” goes on to quote the following passage from
the Baha´’ı´ Writings:
The world is moving on. Its events are unfolding ominously and with bewilder-
ing rapidity. The whirlwind of its passions is swift and alarmingly violent. The
New World is insensibly drawn into its vortex. . . . Dangers, undreamt of and
unpredictable, threaten it both from within and from without. Its governments
and peoples are being gradually enmeshed in the coils of the world’s recurrent
crises and ﬁerce controversies. . . . The world is contracting into a neighborhood.
America, willingly or unwillingly, must face and grapple with this new situation.
For purposes of national security, let alone any humanitarian motive, she must
assume the obligations imposed by this newly created neighborhood. Paradoxi-
cal as it may seem, her only hope of extricating herself from the perils gathering
around her is to become entangled in that very web of international association
which the Hand of an inscrutable Providence is weaving.61
This passage in The Advent of Divine Justice, by Shoghi Effendi, who, as
“Guardian” of the Baha´’ı´ Faith, led the Baha´’ı´ world from 1921 to 1957, is
part of a lengthy letter written December 25, 1938, to the Baha´’ı´s of the
United States and Canada.62 Here, the Guardian states that America will be
so inextricably drawn into the vortex of international relations that she will
be forced to assume a leadership role in the international community, not
out of any humanitarian motives per se, but purely out of enlightened political
self-interest. Notwithstanding, that enlightened self-interest will, in time,
develop into an enlightened global interest.
The National Spiritual Assembly goes on to forecast the destiny of America
as a future leader and catalyst of world peace:
The American nation, Baha´’ı´s believe, will evolve, through tests and trials to
become a land of spiritual distinction and leadership, a champion of justice and
unity among all peoples and nations, and a powerful servant of the cause of ever-
lasting peace. This is the peace promised by God in the sacred texts of the
world’s religions.63
However, the six prerequisites to world peace, mentioned above, must ﬁrst
be met.
This public message from the American Baha´’ı´ leadership to the American
people was a signiﬁcant public gesture. The message goes on to quote from a
Religious Myths and Visions of America

Bahá’í Myths and Visions of America
Baha´’ı´ prayer for America: “May this American Democracy be the ﬁrst
nation to establish the foundation of international agreement. May it be the
ﬁrst nation to proclaim the unity of mankind. May it be the ﬁrst to unfurl
the standard of the Most Great Peace.” The proclamation closes on an opti-
mistic note, with this heartening word of encouragement: “During this hour
of crisis,” the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha´’ı´s of the United States
concludes, “we afﬁrm our abiding faith in the destiny of America. We know
that the road to its destiny is long, thorny and tortuous, but we are conﬁdent
that America will emerge from her trials undivided and undefeatable.” With
this message of hope and inspiration, the National Spiritual Assembly offers
a fresh perspective on America that charts its destiny, prioritizes its social
agenda, and conveys a forward-looking sense of purpose and resolve.
As previously stated, a number of passages in Baha’i texts address the des-
tiny of America. One of these statements, apart from its exhortative tenor,
contains a signiﬁcant allusion to an earlier moment in Baha´’ı´ history:
This nation so signally blest, occupying so eminent and responsible a position in
a continent so wonderfully endowed, was the ﬁrst among the nations of the West
to be warmed and illuminated by the rays of the Revelation of Baha´’u’lla´h, soon
after the proclamation of His Covenant on the morrow of His ascension.64
The allusion to what took place “soon after” may be a reference to the
ﬁrst public mention of the Baha´’ı´ Faith in America, which took place dur-
ing the World’s First Parliament of Religions, held in Chicago in connection
with the Columbian Exposition of 1893, commemorating the four-hundredth
anniversary of the discovery of America.65 The paper, entitled “The Religious
Mission of the English Speaking Nations,” was presented on September 23,
1893.66 While the paper was written by the Reverend Henry Harris
Jessup, D.D. (1832–1910), Director of Presbyterian Missionary Operations in
North Syria, it was George A. Ford, a longtime missionary to Sidon (in
Syria), who read the paper on Jessup’s behalf. The paper was part of a full
day of addresses on the theme “Criticism and Discussion of Missionary
Method.” 67 This historic public reference to the ﬂedgling Baha´’ı´ religion is
as follows:
In the palace of Behjeh, or Delight, just outside the fortress of Acre, on the Syrian
coast, there died a few months since a famous Persian sage, the Babi Saint, named
Behaˆ Allah—the “Glory of God”—the head of a vast reform party of Persian
Moslems, who accept the New Testament as the Word of God and Christ as the
deliverer of men, who regard all nations as one, and all men as brothers. Three
years ago he was visited by a Cambridge scholar and gave utterances to senti-
ments so noble, so Christ-like, that we repeat them as our closing words:

“That all nations should become one in faith and all men as brothers; that the
bonds of affection and unity between the sons of men should be strengthened;
that diversity of religion should cease and differences of race be annulled; what
harm is there in this? Yet so it shall be. These fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars
shall pass away, and the ‘Most Great Peace’ shall come. Do not you in Europe
need this also? Let not a man glory in this, that he loves his country; let him
rather glory in this, that he loves his kind.” 68
America’s future destiny was presaged by its ﬁnest moments in the past.
Shoghi Effendi credits America with having played a preponderant role in
both World Wars:
This nation, moreover, may well claim to have, as a result of its effective partici-
pation in both the ﬁrst and second world wars, redressed the balance, saved man-
kind the horrors of devastation and bloodshed involved in the prolongation of
hostilities, and decisively contributed, in the course of the latter conﬂict, to the
overthrow of the exponents of ideologies fundamentally at variance with the uni-
versal tenets of our Faith.69
As favorable an estimate as this is, Shoghi Effendi elsewhere portends a ﬁre
by ordeal:
The American nation . . . will ﬁnd itself purged of its anachronistic conceptions,
and prepared to play a preponderating role, as foretold by ‘Abdu’l-Baha´, in the
hoisting of the standard of the Lesser Peace, in the uniﬁcation of mankind, and
in the establishment of a world federal government on this planet. These same
ﬁery tribulations will not only ﬁrmly weld the American nation to its sister nations
in both hemispheres, but will through their cleansing effect, purge it thoroughly of
the accumulated dross which ingrained racial prejudice, rampant materialism,
widespread ungodliness and moral laxity have combined, in the course of succes-
sive generations, to produce, and which have prevented her thus far from assum-
ing the role of world spiritual leadership forecast by ‘Abdu’l-Baha´’s unerring
pen—a role which she is bound to fulﬁll through travail and sorrow.70
Note that this “world spiritual leadership forecast by ‘Abdu’l-Baha´’s unerr-
ing pen” will only come about after America experiences upheaval and
consequent social transformation. It will not come easily. It has to be earned.
America has to learn the hard way. What has prevented America from
assuming a spiritual leadership role is its “ingrained racial prejudice, rampant
materialism, widespread ungodliness and moral laxity.” Elsewhere,
Shoghi Effendi revoices these same criticisms of America, which was
“immersed in a sea of materialism, a prey to one of the most virulent and
long-standing forms of racial prejudice, and notorious for its political corrup-
tion, lawlessness and laxity in moral standards.” 71 These are retardant
Religious Myths and Visions of America

Bahá’í Myths and Visions of America
conditions that must ﬁrst be palliated by equal and opposite conditions of
racial harmony, spirituality, godliness, and moral rectitude. This is where reli-
gion in general, including the Baha´’ı´ Faith, can and should act as a catalyst in
the moral and spiritual regeneration of America as a precondition to its ability
to live up to its destiny, in the Baha´’ı´ view of it, described by Shoghi Effendi
in this signal passage:
Then, and only then, will the American nation . . . be in a position to raise its
voice in the councils of the nations, itself lay the cornerstone of a universal and
enduring peace, proclaim the solidarity, the unity, and maturity of mankind,
and assist in the establishment of the promised reign of righteousness on earth.
Then, and only then, will the American nation, while the community of the
American believers within its heart is consummating its divinely appointed mis-
sion, be able to fulﬁll the unspeakably glorious destiny ordained for it by the
Almighty, and immortally enshrined in the writings of ‘Abdu’l-Baha´. Then,
and only then, will the American nation accomplish “that which will adorn the
pages of history,” “become the envy of the world and be blest in both the East
and the West.” 72
While the destiny of America is well established in Baha´’ı´ texts, one
extended analysis of it is that of John Huddleston. As the International Mon-
etary Fund’s former chief of the Budget and Planning Division, British econo-
mist John Huddleston has contributed an analysis of the Destiny of America
theme that runs through selected Baha´’ı´ texts, such as those cited above.73
According to Huddleston, “The Baha´’ı´ view of the spiritual destiny of
America is a logical development of the traditional American dream. It fore-
sees a leadership role for America in the achievement of both the Lesser
Peace and the Most Great Peace.” 74
The “Lesser Peace” and the “Most Great Peace” are Baha´’ı´ terms that envi-
sion stages in the process of world peace, leading from the ﬁrst efforts to
covenant and codify international law to the full-blown emergence of world
commonwealth of nations. The establishment of world peace will “be a
gradual process” leading “at ﬁrst to the establishment of that Lesser Peace
which the nations of the earth, as yet unconscious of His Revelation and yet
unwittingly enforcing the general principles which He has enunciated, will
themselves establish.” 75 The next stage is “the spiritualization of the masses,
consequent to the recognition of the character, and the acknowledgement of
the claims, of the Faith of Baha´’u’lla´h.” 76 This is “the essential condition”
that will serve as the foundation for the “ultimate fusion of all races, creeds,
classes, and nations.” 77 On this foundation will the “Most Great Peace” be
established. The Most Great Peace may be described as a future golden age
in which “a world civilization be born, ﬂourish, and perpetuate itself, a

civilization with a fullness of life such as the world has never seen nor can as
yet conceive.” 78
The Most Great Peace is not only about establishing a world common-
wealth but is associated with establishing the Kingdom of God on earth,
meaning the realization of Baha´’ı´ principles and ideals throughout the world,
and the emergence of the Baha´’ı´ Faith as the world religion of the future. In so
saying, a fundamental premise of the Faith is the “oneness of religion.” This
means that all of the major world religions (and others lost to history) are iter-
ations of the one Faith of God—that is, all revealed religions, in their pristine
forms, are reﬂections of eternal spiritual reality as suited to the needs of
humanity from age to age. Under the corollary doctrine of “Progressive
Revelation,” the principles and teachings of the Baha´’ı´ Faith are held to be
ideally suited to this day and age, as well as into the foreseeable future. Fea-
tures of the Most Great Peace will be highlighted at the end of this chapter.
In a cablegram dated April 26, 1942, Shoghi Effendi presaged America’s
lion’s share in helping establish the Lesser Peace: “The great Republic of
the West is inescapably swept into the swelling tide of the world tribulations,
presaging the assumption of a preponderating share in the establishment of
the anticipated Lesser Peace.” 79 Exactly how this will come about is not
clear: “The distance that the American nation has traveled since its formal
and categoric repudiation of the Wilsonian ideal,” writes Shoghi Effendi,
alluding to Congress’s refusal to join the League of Nations, is
to every Baha´’ı´ observer, viewing the developments in the international situa-
tion, in the light of the prophecies of both Baha´’u’lla´h and ‘Abdu’l-Baha´, most
signiﬁcant, and highly instructive and encouraging. To trace the exact course
which, in these troubled times and pregnant years, this nation will follow would
be impossible.80
Yet there is a shared understanding among Baha´’ı´s as to America’s capacity
to assume a “preponderating share” in bringing the Lesser Peace into being.
America will also have a central role in bringing about the Most Great
Peace, according to the Baha´’ı´ view of the future. “Whatever the Hand of a
beneﬁcent and inscrutable Destiny has reserved for this youthful, this virile,
this idealistic, this spiritually blessed and enviable nation . . . ,” Shoghi
Effendi asserts, “we may, conﬁdent in the words uttered by ‘Abdu’l-Baha´,
feel assured that that great republic . . . will continue to evolve, undivided
and undefeatable, until the sum total of its contributions to the birth, the rise
and the fruition of that world civilization, the child of the Most Great Peace
and hallmark of the Golden Age of the Dispensation of Baha´’u’lla´h, will have
been made, and its last task discharged.” 81
Religious Myths and Visions of America

Bahá’í Myths and Visions of America
These words are far more than prediction: they are spoken with religious
conviction and with absolute conﬁdence in their fruition.
“Indeed, the most important quality America brings to the world scene,”
Huddleston observes, “is its sheer capacity to get things done.” 82 Even more
signiﬁcant than “American know-how” and its “can-do” capabilities is the
historic quality of the American experience itself, and its moral impact on
other countries. Huddleston notes the worldwide inﬂuence of the Civil Rights
movement (“the spark that illumined the world”) and how it has further pre-
pared America for its world role: “In short, beyond the model of the US
Constitution is an inheritance in the American political experience of an
immense struggle to implement its true spirit through application of a system-
atic approach to human rights—an experience that is surely not matched in
intensity by any other nation.” 83 Shoghi Effendi articulates those distinc-
tively American qualities that endow it with the capacity to realize its spiri-
tual destiny:
To the matchless position achieved by so preeminent a president [Woodrow
Wilson] of the American Union, in a former period, at so critical a juncture in
international affairs, must now be added the splendid initiative taken, in recent
years by the American government, culminating in the birth of the successor of
that League [the United Nations] in San Francisco, and the establishment of its
permanent seat in the city of New York. Nor can the preponderating inﬂuence
exerted by this nation in the councils of the world, the prodigious economic
and political power that it wields, the prestige it enjoys, the wealth of which it
disposes, the idealism that animates its people, her magniﬁcent contribution, as
a result of her unparalleled productive power, for the relief of human suffering
and the rehabilitation of peoples and nations, be overlooked in a survey of the
position which she holds, and which distinguishes her from her sister nations
in both the new and old worlds.84
Note here the outspoken recognition of the outstanding qualities and
capacities that America possesses: international inﬂuence, economic and
political power, prestige, wealth, idealism, productivity, and altruism. And
so, given these recognized qualities, capacities, and potentialities, the Baha´’ı´
writings are remarkably clear in their vision of America’s mission and des-
tiny. There are, however, great challenges facing the American nation that
Baha´’ı´ texts directly address. These are social deﬁcits the solution of which
will directly impact America’s moral authority in terms of its world role.
Among these social ills is racism, which is as persistent and pervasive as it
is historic. “Racism is the most challenging issue confronting America” is
the opening sentence in The Vision of Race Unity, an ofﬁcial Baha´’ı´ statement
published in 1991. Racism, in Baha´’ı´ analysis, is the original sin of America.

(Many historians would agree.) Race unity is therefore a key to America’s
social salvation.
The Vision of Race Unity statement integrates racial harmony with Ameri-
ca’s destiny, as the two are coefﬁcient with each other:
Aware of the magnitude and the urgency of the issue, we, the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Baha´’ı´s of the United States, speaking for the entire U.S. Baha´’ı´
community, appeal to all people of goodwill to arise without further delay to
resolve the fundamental social problem of this country. We do so because of
our feeling of shared responsibility, because of the global experience of the
Baha´’ı´ community in effecting racial harmony within itself, and because of the
vision that the sacred scriptures of our Faith convey of the destiny of America.
Thus, throughout the United States, Baha´’ı´s actively promote a message of
race unity, equality of women and men, and other teachings that can help
make America a better place.
Religious communities are proper objects of scientiﬁc study, where their
professions may literally be measured against their actual practices. Like
other faith-communities, Baha´’ı´s have faith that an ideal can become real.
The efﬁcacy of these Baha´’ı´ endeavors have been documented in several
sociological studies, such as in the 2006 monograph, The Equality of Women
and Men: The Experience of the Baha´’ı´ Community of Canada, by Deborah
K. van den Hoonaard, Canada Research Chair in Qualitative Research and
Analysis at St. Thomas University, Fredericton, New Brunswick, and Will
C. van den Hoonaard, Professor at the University of New Brunswick and
author of Walking the Tightrope: Ethical Issues for Qualitative Research-
ers.85 On the race relations front, doctoral research on the Baha´’ı´ community
of Atlanta, Georgia, revealed that “nearly one-fourth were black or African
American,” which is a signiﬁcant demographic ﬁnding given the problem of
self-segregation in American religious settings. The author of that study, a
social scientist, observed that Baha´’ı´ efforts to promote race unity in Atlanta
“inform African American Baha´’ı´s in a way that Martin Luther King, Jr. or
Malcolm X cannot.” 86
In ﬁne, the destiny of America is to play a preponderating role in the politi-
cal process of establishing the Lesser Peace, as well as to lead all nations spir-
itually in an evolutionary process culminating in the Most Great Peace and a
great world civilization. This future golden age is spoken of in glorious terms
by Shoghi Effendi, whose vision of it reads, in condensed part, as follows:
• The unity of the human race, as envisaged by Baha´’u’lla´h, implies the establish-
ment of a world commonwealth in which all nations, races, creeds and classes
are closely and permanently united . . .
Religious Myths and Visions of America

Bahá’í Myths and Visions of America
• This commonwealth must . . . consist of a world legislature . . .
• A world executive, backed by an international Force, will . . . apply the laws
enacted by this world legislature . . .
• A world tribunal will adjudicate and deliver its compulsory and ﬁnal verdict in
all and any disputes that may arise . . .
• A mechanism of world inter-communication will be devised . . .
• A world metropolis will act as the nerve center of a world civilization . . .
• A world language . . . will be taught in the schools of all the federated nations as
an auxiliary to their mother tongue.
• A world script, a world literature, a uniform and universal system of currency, of
weights and measures . . . will simplify and facilitate intercourse and understand-
ing among the nations . . .
• Science and religion, the two most potent forces in human life, will be recon-
ciled, will co¨operate, and will harmoniously develop . . .
• The press will . . . cease to be mischievously manipulated by vested interests,
whether private or public . . .
• The economic resources of the world will be organized . . . and the distribution of
its products will be equitably regulated . . .
• Racial animosity and prejudice will be replaced by racial amity, understanding
and co¨operation . . .
• The causes of religious strife will be permanently removed . . .
• The inordinate distinction between classes will be obliterated . . .
• Universal recognition of one God and . . . allegiance to one common Revelation
—such is the goal towards which humanity, impelled by the unifying forces of
life, is moving.87
One cannot be but struck by the sheer scope, grandeur, and maturity of this
vision. It would appear that America—once successful in its mission to taking
a leading role in bringing about world unity, which will develop in stages and
progress as a gradual process—will gracefully become part of the framework
of the world federation of nations that it has helped shape. A great catalyst in
this process will be the burgeoning inﬂuence of Baha´’ı´ principles that will
further animate the progressive outlook of world leaders.
Obviously none of this will happen by magic. One might well ask: How
will this noble vision ultimately be realized in the realm of the mundane?
How will all this be expected to come about? The short, but not simple,
answer is this: Beyond its emphasis on egalitarian social principles, the
Baha´’ı´ Faith’s grand vision of world unity necessarily requires a human spiri-
tual transformation at the levels of the individual and community is needed in
order to put those principles into practice, involving “the spiritualization of
human consciousness and the emergence of the global civilization.” 88

Overcoming racism and other social evils clearly requires both policy and
personal change. Here, precept and praxis go hand-in-hand. Baha´’ı´ principles
of unity will be effective only to the degree that they are put into practice,
both individually and collectively. The role of Baha´’ı´s in America is to purify
the inward life of their own community, to assail the racism and other social
evils in the American nation at large, and to offer in practice and principle
the Baha´’ı´ vision of world unity.89 This is concurrent with the international
relations role of America in establishing the Lesser Peace, a process that has
little to do with Baha´’ı´ efforts.
In the full-page display ad, “The Destiny of America and the Promise
of World Peace,” which appeared on page A29 in the New York Times on
December 23, 2001,90 the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha´’ı´s of
the United States quotes from a Baha´’ı´ prayer for America, revealed by
‘Abdu’l-Baha´, the full text of which is as follows:
O Thou kind Lord! This gathering is turning to Thee. These hearts are radiant
with Thy love. These minds and spirits are exhilarated by the message of Thy
glad-tidings. O God! Let this American democracy become glorious in spiritual
degrees even as it has aspired to material degrees, and render this just
government victorious. Conﬁrm this revered nation to upraise the standard of
the oneness of humanity, to promulgate the Most Great Peace, to become
thereby most glorious and praiseworthy among all the nations of the world. O
God! This American nation is worthy of Thy favors and is deserving of Thy
mercy. Make it precious and near to Thee through Thy bounty and bestowal.91
Here, this Baha´’ı´ “Prayer for America” envisions America’s world role,
which is “to upraise the standard of the oneness of humanity, to promulgate
the Most Great Peace.” In their complementary role as a spiritualizing and
socially leavening inﬂuence, the American Baha´’ı´s—individually and collec-
tively—strive to do their part in realizing this noble vision. As Baha´’ı´ philoso-
pher Alain Locke (1895–1954) has said:
America’s democracy must begin at home with a spiritual fusion of all her con-
stituent peoples in brotherhood, and in an actual mutuality of life. Until democ-
racy is worked out in the vital small scale of practical human relations, it can
never, except as an empty formula, prevail on the national or international basis.
Until it establishes itself in human hearts, it can never institutionally ﬂourish.
Moreover, America’s reputation and moral inﬂuence in the world depends on
the successful achievement of this vital spiritual democracy within the lifetime
of the present generation. (Material civilization alone does not safeguard the
progress of a nation.) Baha´’ı´ Principles and the leavening of our national life
with their power, is to be regarded as the salvation of democracy. In this way
only can the ﬁne professions of American ideals be realized.92
Religious Myths and Visions of America

Notes
24. Ibid., 221.
25. Ibid., 306.
26. Ibid., 307.
27. Ibid., 308.
28. Ibid., 309.
29. Ibid., 310.
30. Ibid., 311.
31. Ibid., 312.
32. Ibid., 313.
33. Ibid., 315.
34. Ibid., 317.
35. Ibid., 319.
36. Ibid., 301.
37. “Robert A. F. Thurman” Web site.
38. Thurman, Inner Revolution, 221.
39. Ibid., 280.
40. Ibid., 282.
41. Dalai Lama, qtd. Ann Frechette, “Democracy and Democratization among
Tibetans in Exile.” Journal of Asian Studies 66.1 (February 2007): 97–127 [107].
42. Dalai Lama, Constitution of Tibet (Delhi: Bureau of His Holiness the Dalai
Lama, 1963). Qtd. Frechette, “Democracy and Democratization,” 108.
43. Dalai Lama, Constitution of Tibet. Qtd. Frechette, “Democracy and Democrati-
zation,” 108–109.
44. Frechette, “Democracy and Democratization,” 105.
45. Qtd. Frechette, “Democracy and Democratization,” 116.
46. Biographical facts based on Dalai Lama’s ofﬁcial biographical sketch, “The
Dalai Lama’s Biography.”
47. Dalai Lama, “His Holiness the Dalai Lama’s Nobel Lecture, University Aula,
Oslo, December 11th, 1989.”
48. Ibid.
49. Dalai Lama, “Remarks by His Holiness the Dalai Lama to the Members of the
United States Congress in the Rotunda of the Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., 18
April 1991.” Bunson, Wisdom Teachings of the Dalai Lama, 226.
50. Dalai Lama, “Statement by His Holiness the XIV Dalai Lama on His Visit to
the United States, September 1995.” Bunson, Wisdom Teachings of the Dalai Lama,
224.
51. Dalai Lama, “Buddhism, Asian Values and Democracy.” Journal of Democ-
racy 10.1 (January 1999): 3–7 [4].
52. Ibid., 4.
CHAPTER 11: BAHÁ’Í MYTHS AND VISIONS OF AMERICA
1. Qtd. Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice (Wilmette, IL: U.S. Baha´’ı´
Publishing Trust, 1990 [1938]), 87–88. See also ‘Abdu’l-Baha´, “Talk at Sanatorium
of Dr. C. M. Swingle, Cleveland, Ohio, 6 May 1912. Notes by Sigel T. Brooks.”
Promulgation of Universal Peace (Wilmette, IL: U.S. Baha´’ı´ Publishing Trust,

1982), 104. (“All the cities of America seem to be large and beautiful, and the people
appear prosperous. The American continent gives signs and evidences of very great
advancement; its future is even more promising, for its inﬂuence and illumination
are far-reaching, and it will lead all nations spiritually. The ﬂag of freedom and ban-
ner of liberty have been unfurled here, but the prosperity and advancement of a city,
the happiness and greatness of a country depend upon its hearing and obeying the call
of God.” [Emphasis added.])
2. ‘Abdu’l-Baha´, “Tablet to the Baha´’ı´s of the Central States.” Tablets of the
Divine Plan (Wilmette, IL: U.S. Baha´’ı´ Publishing Trust, 1993), 79.
3. This claim excludes what historians and phenomenologists of religion call
“new religious movements” (NRMs), which properly belong to larger religious cat-
egories, such as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (presented in Chap-
ter 6), which is part of Christianity (marginally so by orthodox standards), or like
the Nation of Islam (treated in Chapter 8), which is an Islamic movement based in
the United States.
4. Baha´’ı´ International Community, “The Baha´’ı´ Faith.”
5. Baha´’ı´ International Community, “The Baha´’ı´ World Community.”
6. Qtd. and trans. by Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baha´’u’lla´h (Wilmette,
IL: U.S. Baha´’ı´ Publishing Trust, 1991 [1936]), 36.
7. Shoghi Effendi, “America and the Most Great Peace.” The World Order of
Baha´’u’lla´h, 81.
8. See ofﬁcial announcement, “World Heritage Site: Baha´’i Holy Places.” See
also Baha´’ı´ International Community, “Baha’i shrines chosen as World Heritage
sites.”
9. Vince Gerasole (CBS), “Rare Wilmette Temple Makes Cut in ‘7 Wonders’
List” (April 30, 2007).
10. Christopher Buck, “The Eschatology of Globalization: Baha´’u’lla´h’s Multiple-
Messiahship Revisited.” Studies in Modern Religions, Religious Movements and the
Babi-Baha´’ı´ Faiths. Ed. Moshe Sharon. Numen Book Series: Studies in the History
of Religions, 104 (Leiden: Brill Academic Publishers, 2004), 143–178; idem, “A
Unique Eschatological Interface: Baha´’u’lla´h and Cross-Cultural Messianism.” In
Iran. Ed. Peter Smith (Los Angeles: Kalima´t Press, 1986), 157–179.
11. Baha´’u’lla´h, “Queen Victoria.” The Summons of the Lord of Hosts (Haifa:
Baha´’ı´ World Centre, 2002), 91.
12. This section is primarily based on a prior publication by the author: Christopher
Buck, “Baha’i Faith and Social Action.” Encyclopedia of Activism and Social Justice.
Ed. Gary L. Anderson and Kathryn G. Herr (Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications,
2007), vol. 1, 208–213.
13. Baha´’ı´ World Centre. “The Kita´b-i-Aqdas: Its Place in Baha´’ı´ Literature.” The
Baha´’ı´ World (Haifa: Baha´’ı´ World Centre, 1993), 107.
14. Baha´’u’lla´h. Tablets of Baha´’u’lla´h Revealed after the Kita´b-i-Aqdas (Wil-
mette, IL: Baha´’ı´ Publishing Trust, 1978), 67.
15. See Armin Eschragi, “ ‘Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy’: Some
Notes on the Ba´b’s Sharı´‘ah (Sacred Law).” A Most Noble Pattern: Essays in
Notes

Notes
the Study of the Writings of the Ba´b. Ed. Todd Lawson (Oxford: George Ronald,
forthcoming).
16. Universal House of Justice, The Constitution of the Universal House of Justice
(Haifa: Baha´’ı´ World Centre, 1973), 5.
17. David B. Barrett, ed., World Christian Encyclopedia: A Comparative Study of
Churches and Religions in the Modern World, A.D. 1900–2000 (Oxford and New
York: Oxford University Press, 1982).
18. ‘Abdu’l-Baha´, Paris Talks: Addresses given by ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ in Paris in 1911–
1912. 11th ed. (London: Baha´’ı´ Publishing Trust, 1969), 159.
19. Baha´’u’lla´h, The Hidden Words of Baha´’u’lla´h (Wilmette, IL: Baha´’ı´ Publish-
ing Trust, 1985), 3–4.
20. Baha´’u’lla´h, “Queen Victoria.” The Summons of the Lord of Hosts (Haifa:
Baha´’ı´ World Centre, 2002), 90.
21. Ibid., 92.
22. Baha´’ı´ International Community, “Sustainable Development and the Human
Spirit.” Based on the statement, “The Most Vital Challenge,” presented to the Plenary
of the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED, Earth
Summit ’92).
23. Ibid.
24. ‘Abdu’l-Baha´, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Baha´. Compiled by the
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice. Translated by Marzieh Gail
et al. (Haifa: Baha´’ı´ World Centre, 1978), 104.
25. ‘Abdu’l-Baha´, “5 September 1912. Talk at St. James Methodist Church, Mon-
treal, Canada,” Promulgation of Universal Peace, 318.
26. Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By (Wilmette, IL: U.S. Baha´’ı´ Publishing Trust,
1979 [1944]), 396–397.
27. Baha´’u’lla´h, The Kita´b-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book (Haifa: Baha´’ı´ World
Centre, 1992), 52.
28. The author is indebted to Baha´’ı´ scholar Peter Terry for compiling this list of
heads of state of the Americas, who were contemporary with Baha´’u’lla´h in 1872–
1873. E-mail dated September 19, 2008. (Posting on the “Tarikh” listserve.)
29. Shoghi Effendi, This Decisive Hour: Messages from Shoghi Effendi to the
North American Baha´’ı´s, 1932–1946 (Wilmette, IL: U.S. Baha´’ı´ Publishing Trust,
2002), paragraph 158.3.
30. Reported by the Baha´’ı´ historian Nabı´l-i-Zarandı´, qtd. Shoghi Effendi, God
Passes By, 263.
31. Shoghi Effendi, This Decisive Hour: Messages from Shoghi Effendi to the
North American Baha´’ı´s, 1932–1946, paragraph 158.3.
32. Robert Stockman, The Baha´’ı´ Faith and American Protestantism (Th.D.: Har-
vard University, 1990). Abstract.
33. Robert Stockman, “Redeemer Nation Revisited: The American Baha´’ı´ Sacred
History of America.” Chapter 7. The Baha´’ı´ Faith and American Protestantism
(Th.D.: Harvard University, 1990), 1. The present writer is grateful to Dr. Stockman
for his permission to draw from this chapter in his dissertation. Credit goes to David

Merrick, of Edinburgh, Scotland, for providing this chapter by e-mail, with Dr. Stock-
man’s permission. The page numbering used here, however, does not correspond with
the completed dissertation.
34. Stockman, “Redeemer Nation Revisited,” 1, n. 1.
35. Ernest Lee Tuveson, Redeemer Nation: The Idea of America’s Millennial Role
(Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1968).
36. Deborah L. Madsen, American Exceptionalism (Edinburgh: Edinburgh Univer-
sity Press, 1998), 3.
37. Ibid., 2.
38. Ibid., 2.
39. Ibid., 165.
40. Ibid., 165.
41. Stockman, “Redeemer Nation Revisited,” 7.
42. Ibid., 17.
43. The National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha´’ı´s of the United States is the
annually elected governing council of the American Baha´’ı´ community.
44. Stockman, “Redeemer Nation Revisited,” 17.
45. Allan L. Ward, 239 Days: ‘Abdu’l-Baha´’s Journey in America (Wilmette, IL:
U.S. Baha´’ı´ Publishing Trust, 1979), 40.
46. ‘Abdu’l-Baha´, “Talk at Howard University, Washington, D.C. (23 April
1912).” Translated by Amin Banani. ‘Abdu’l-Baha´, Promulgation of Universal
Peace. 2nd ed. (Wilmette, IL: U.S. Baha´’ı´ Publishing Trust, 1982), 45–46.
47. ‘Abdu’l-Baha´, Promulgation of Universal Peace, 46.
48. Louis Auchincloss, Woodrow Wilson (New York: Viking Penguin, 2000); A.
Clements Kendrick, Woodrow Wilson: World Statesman (Lawrence: University Press
of Kansas, 1987); Thomas J. Knock, To End All Wars: Woodrow Wilson and the
Quest for a New World Order (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1992).
49. Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith. Third printing (Wilmette, IL: U.S. Baha´’ı´
Publishing Trust, 1980), 36.
50. David Steigerwald, Wilsonian Idealism in America (Ithaca, NY: Cornell Uni-
versity Press, 1994).
51. Stephen Skowronek, “The Reassociation of Ideas and Purposes: Racism, Liber-
alism, and the American Political Tradition.” American Political Science Review 100
(2006): 385–401 [396].
52. ‘Abdu’l-Baha´, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ (Haifa: Baha´’ı´
World Centre, 1982), 311–312.
53. Ibid., 109.
54. Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, 88.
55. Gregory S. Butler, “Visions of a Nation Transformed: Modernity and Ideology in
Wilson’s Political Thought.” Journal of Church and State 39.1 (Winter 1997): 37–51
56. National Spiritual Assembly (NSA) of the Baha´’ı´s of the United States, “The
Destiny of America and the Promise of World Peace.” New York Times (December
23, 2001): A29.
57. Ibid.
58. Ibid.
Notes

Notes
59. Ibid.
60. Abdu’l-Baha´, ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ on Divine Philosophy. Ed. Isabel Fraser Chamber-
lain (Boston: The Tudor Press, 1917), 85. While no Persian or Arabic original exists
to authenticate this statement recorded in English, its purport is accepted.
61. Qtd. National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha´’ı´s of the United States, “The Des-
tiny of America and the Promise of World Peace” (December 23, 2001).
62. Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice (Wilmette, IL: U.S. Baha´’ı´ Pub-
lishing Trust, 1990 [1938]), 87–88.
63. NSA, “Destiny of America.”
64. Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith (Wilmette, IL: U.S. Baha´’ı´ Publishing Trust,
1980), 36–37.
65. Thanks to Steve Cooney of New Zealand for this suggestion. E-mail dated July
26, 2008. (Posting on the “Tarikh” listserve.)
66. Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 256.
67. Henry H. Jessup, “The Religious Mission of the English Speaking Nations.”
The World’s Parliament of Religions: An illustrated and popular story of the world’s
ﬁrst Parliament of Religions, held in Chicago in connection with the Columbian
Exposition of 1893. Vol. 2. Ed. John H. Barrows. Chicago: Parliament Pub. Co.,
1893), 1122–1126. Thanks to Reed Breneman for this reference, and also for pointing
out that it was George A. Ford who read the paper on Jessup’s behalf. E-mail dated
July 26, 2008. (Posting on the “Tarikh” listserve.) See review by Eric J. Ziolkowsk,
Journal of the American Academy of Religion 64.3 (Autumn 1996): 662–664, who
notes that the editor of this collection had compared the two variant versions of Jess-
up’s paper to produce a deﬁnitive text (663).
68. Jessup, “The Religious Mission of the English Speaking Nations,” 1125–1126.
These subsequently celebrated words of Baha´’u’lla´h come from Edward G. Browne,
“Introduction,” in ‘Abdu’l-Baha´, A Traveler’s Narrative Written to Illustrate the Epi-
sode of the Ba´b. Trans. Edward G. Browne, 2 vols. (Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press, 1891), 2: xxxix–xl. Robert Stockman points out that “Jessup did not
reproduce the quotation exactly as Browne gave it.” See idem, Thornton Chase: The
First American Baha´’ı´ (Wilmette, IL: Baha´’ı´ Publishing Trust, 2001), Chapter 11.
69. Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, 37.
70. Ibid., 126–127.
71. Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, 19.
72. Ibid., 90–91.
73. John Huddleston, “The Spiritual Destiny of America and World Peace.” Pro-
cesses of the Lesser Peace. Ed. Babak Bahador and Nazila Ghanea (Oxford: George
Ronald, 2002), 107–161.
74. Ibid., 111.
75. Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day Is Come. Rev. ed. (Wilmette, IL: U.S.
Baha´’ı´ Publishing Trust, 1980 [1941]), 123.
76. Ibid., 123.
77. Ibid., 123.
78. Ibid., 123.
79. Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, 55.

80. Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice (Wilmette, IL: U.S. Baha´’ı´ Pub-
lishing Trust, 1990), 89.
81. Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, 38.
82. Huddleston, “The Spiritual Destiny of America and World Peace,” 117.
83. Ibid., 132.
84. Shoghi Effendi, Citadel of Faith, 36.
85. Deborah K. van den Hoonaard and Will C. van den Hoonaard, The Equality of
Women and Men: The Experience of the Baha´’ı´ Community of Canada (Winnipeg,
MB: Art Bookbindery, 2006).
86. Michael McMullen, “The Religious Construction of a Global Identity: An Eth-
nographic Look at the Atlanta Baha´’ı´ Community.” Contemporary American Reli-
gion: An Ethnographic Reader. Ed. Penny Edgell Becker and Nancy L. Eiesland
(Walnut Creek, London, New Delhi: Altamira Press, 1997), 236–237 and 227.
87. Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Baha´’u’lla´h (Wilmette, IL: U.S. Baha´’ı´
Publishing Trust, 1991 [1936]), 203–204 (formatting added).
88. Century of Light. Prepared under the direction of the Universal House of Justice
(Wilmette, IL: U.S. Baha´’ı´ Publishing Trust, 2001 [2003 printing]), 138.
89. Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, 34.
90. National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha´’ı´s of the United States, “The Destiny of
America and the Promise of World Peace.” New York Times (December 23, 2001): A29.
91. ‘Abdu’l-Baha´, “Prayer for America.” Baha´’ı´ Prayers: A Selection of Prayers
Revealed by Baha´’u’lla´h, the Ba´b, and ‘Abdu’l-Baha´ (Wilmette, IL: US Baha´’ı´ Pub-
lishing Trust, 1991), 25.
92. Alain Locke, “America’s Part in World Peace” (1925). Qtd. Christopher Buck,
Alain Locke: Faith and Philosophy (Los Angeles: Kalima´t Press, 2005), 241 (empha-
sis added). Under the auspices of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha´’ı´s of
the United States, World Order magazine has published two special issues on Alain
Locke. See Christopher Buck, “Alain Locke: Race Leader, Social Philosopher, Baha´’ı´
Pluralist.” Special Issue: Alain Locke: Dean of the Harlem Renaissance and Baha’i
Race-Amity Leader. World Order 36.3 (2005): 7–36; Alain Locke, “Alain Locke in
His Own Words: Three Essays” (“The Gospel for the Twentieth Century” [39–42];
“Peace Between Black and White in the United States” [42–45]; “Five Phases of
Democracy” [45–48]; Alain Locke, “The Moon Maiden” [37]) World Order 36.3
(2005): 37–48 (previously unpublished essays, introduced by Christopher Buck and
co-edited with World Order editor Dr. Betty J. Fisher); and (2) Christopher Buck
and Betty J. Fisher, ed. and intro., “Alain Locke: Four Talks Redeﬁning Democracy,
Education, and World Citizenship.” World Order 38.3 (2006/2007): 21–41. (Alain
Locke, “The Preservation of the American Ideal”; “Stretching Our Social Mind”;
“On Becoming World Citizens”; “Creative Democracy.”)
CHAPTER 12: CONCLUSION: HOW MINORITY FAITHS REDEFINED
AMERICA’S WORLD ROLE
1. Mark R. Amstutz, “Faith-Based NGOs and U.S. Foreign Policy.” The Inﬂuence
of Faith: Religious Groups and U.S. Foreign Policy. Ed. Eliott Abrams (Lanham:
Rowman and Littleﬁeld, 2001), 175–187 [175–176].
Notes