Adriano pie
Land of Mystery

Published by
Boho Publishing Trust
Istanbul. Turkey
Printed and Organization
mente~
Ankara Cod.52. Istanbul
526 76 47
Compiled
by
Anthony A. Reitmayer

.;.
CONTENTS:
1.lntroduction: Turkey as the site of many of the great figures
and events In world religions.
2.Overvlew of the exile of Baha'u'llah from Tehran to Akka.
3.Significance of Baha'u'llah's sojourn In Constantinople
and Adrianople
4. Constantinople
5. Exile to Adrianople: a} K090k9ekmece
b} Buyuk9ekmece
c}Sillvri
d} Wlebergaz
e} Babaeski
6. Adrianople: a} Caravanseral
b} Houses in Muradlyyih quarter
c} Muradiyyih. Mosque
d} House of Amrullah
e} House of Rida Big
f} House of lzzat Aqa
g} Se/Im/ye Mosque
7. Gulde to sites: a) Istanbul
b} Istanbul to Edirne
c)Edirne
8. List of Important Tablets and Writings of Baha'ullah during
His sojourn In Adrianople and Constantinople.
9. Tablet of Ahmad
10. Index and Blbllography

According to the Old Testament. the Ark of Noah Is suppossed
. to hove come to a rest on the slopes of the mountain. ofter hov·
ing endured and survived the great deluge visited upon a
. wayward humanity by a wrathful God_ nearly 5.000 years ago.
The Prophet Abraham. father of monotheism and revered
by Jews. Moslerns and Christians come from Ur of the Chold~
upon God's coll to go to Canaan and stopped at Harrqn in
Southeastern Turkey around 1800 B.C. He remained there for
several years before deporting for the land of Canaan.
•
Jesus Christ. prophet-founder of the Christian Faith, llved
and died within the confines of Plostine. yet His faith has reach-
ed to the furthest corners of the globe. It can be said that the
rellglon known as Christianity. its credo. doctrine and institu-
tionollzotlon hod Its crystolizotion In Asia Minor (Turkey). It was
In Antioch (Antokyo) where St. Peter preached for the first time
to the Gentiles and where. for the first time. the followers of Christ
were called Christians. Further along the coast of the M~lter-
ranean Is the town of Tarsus. the birthplace of St. Pout-St. Paul
carried d'ut numerous missionary journles in Asia Minor: Ephesus.
Coppodoeio. Antioch As well as being visited by St. Poul. Turkey
Is the resting place of another two of the apostles of Christ St. '
Phillip and St. John. At Hleropolls {Pomukkole). a fifth century
mortyrium was bullt over the tomb of the martyred St. Phillip.
In Seljuk, near the ancient city of-Ephesus, Is the basilica of St.
John, where his tomb supposedly lies. Seljuk Is also, according
to legend, the final resting place of the Virgin Mpl"f.,
The First Ecumenical Councll was held In Nlcoea (lznlk) In
325 by the first Christian Emperor of the Romon Empire, Con-
stantine the Great, At this and subsequent councils. the foun-
dations of the Christian Church were firmly established.
christtonlty became the official state religion of the Roman Em-•
plre and later debate led to the creation of established forms
of worship, creed and dotes of holy days such as Easter .
In Constantinople (Istanbul) In 381, The Nicene Creed was .
written. declaring the equality of the Father. Son and Holy Spirit.
As well as bel~ the center· of so much of the early develoJ>
ment of Christianity, Turkey hos also been the stage upon which
significant events and developments in the evolution of Islam
. have occurred.
After Mecca. Medino and Jerusalem. Istanbul mdy be said
to be the fourth most sacred place of pilgrimage in the Islamic
world. This is due to the assumption that Eyup. the friend and
standard-bearer of the Prophet Muhammed, had been among
those who led the first Arab siege of Constantinople from 674
to 678 and was killed and buried somewhere just outside of the
· city. Later. during the Ottoman period. a mosque was built over
the. supposed burial site.
In central Turkey, in the city of Konya, lies the tomb of
Celaleddin Rum I ( 1207-127 3). the founder of the order of Whirl-
ing Dervishes and one of Islam's greatest mystic philosophers.
Ruml. known as Mevlono to his followers. created a system of
belief based upon the universality of God and the attempt to
establish union with God. The order was open to anyone.
regardless of religion or sect.
The seat of the Caliphate was transferred to Istanbul In 1517
through the conquests of Sultan Selim I. The Sultans retained the
status of the protectors of Islam and Its holy places until the
Cqllpate was abolished under Ataturk in 1924. a period of over
400 years.

I
In the middle of the 18th cent~ry, during the latter days of
the ottoman Empire, Turkish sbil was once again to play host
to another chapter in the history of world religion. _
In May of 1863, a group of exiles from Persia entered what
is today Turkish territory near a town on the Syrian/Iraqi border.
Among these exiles was a figure destined to join the ranks of •
those great souls who have contributed so much to the ad-
vancement of humanity through their guidance.,
This figure was Baha'u'llah, the Prophet-founder of the Baha'i
Faith, the latest of the wor(d's major religions.
•
The Significance of Baha'u'llah's Sojourn in
Constantinople and Adrianople
The five-year period (1863-1868) Baha'u'llah spent In Con-
stantinople (Istanbul) and Adrianople (Edlrne) was one of the
most significant of His entire ministry.
During that time, the great majority of the followers of the
Bab had embraced the Cause of Baha'u'llah. The Faith had
been publicly proclaimed to the kings, the rulers, the divines
and the masses of humanity. It was also during this time that
Mirza Yahya had been cast out of the Baha'i community and
was exiled to Cyprus to live out the rest of his lif!3 in lone obscurity.
The four month sojourn of Baha'u'llah in Constantinople can
best be summarized in the following excerpt from God Passes
By,
With the arrival of Baha'u'llah at Constantinople, the capital
of the Ottoman Empire and seat of the Caliphate .. .the grimmest
and most calamitous and yet the most glorious chapter in the
history of the first Baha'i century may be said to have opened.
A period in which untold privations and unprecedented trials
were mingled with the .noblest spiritual triumphs was now com-
mencing. The day-star of Baha'u'llah's ministry was about to
reach its zenith.
The most momentous years of the Heroic Age of His Dispen-
sation were at hand. The catastrophic process, foreshadowed
as far back as the year sixty [AH 1260) by His Forerunner in the
Qayyum'I-Asma, was beginning to be set in motion.

"In the midst of the Slyah-Chal of Tihran, nine years later,'
that Revelation had swiftly and mysteriously been brought to
sudden fruition. The process of rapid deterioration In the for-
tunes of that Faith, which had gradually set In, and was alarm-
ingly accelerated during the years of Baha'u'llah's withdrawal
to Kurdistan. had, In a masterly fashion after His return from
Sulayman.lyylh. been arrested and reversed. The ethical, the
moral and doctrinal foundations of a nascent community had
been subsequently, In the course of His sojourn in Baghdad,
unassallably established. And finally, In the Garden of Rldvan.
on the eve of His banishment to Constantinople, the ten-year
delay, ordained by an Inscrutable Providence, had been ter-
minated through the Declaration of His Mission and the visible
emergence of what was to become the nucleus of a world em-
bracing Fellowshlp. What 'now remained to be achieved was
the proclamation. In the city of Adrlanople, of that same Mis-
Ion to th world's secular anq ecclesiastical leaders. to be
followed. In successive decades. by a further unfoldment, _In
th prison-fortress
of Akka. of the prlnclples and precepts con-
stituting the bedrock of that Faith, by the formulation of the laws
and ordinances designed to safeguard It~ Integrity, by the
establishment. Immediately after His ascension, of the Covenant
designed to preserve lts unity and perpetuate Its Influence ...
"The initial phase of that Proclamation may be said to have
opened In Constantinople with the communication addressed
by Baha'u'llah to Sultan Abdu'I-Azlz ~imself, 'the self-styled vicar
of the Prophet of Islam and the absolute ruler of a mighty em-
pire. So potent. so august a persona~ was the first among the
sovereigns of the world to receive the Divine Summons ...
"Thus closes the opening scene of one of the most dramatic
episodes In the ministry of Baha"ullah. The curtain now rises on
what Is admittedly the most turbulent and critical period of the
first Baha'i century -a period that was destined to precede the
·most glorious phase of that ministry, the proclamation of His
Message to the world and Its rulers."
The Guardian further describes the fruitful years In Adrla~o-
ple, in the particular the prodigious outpouring of Divine Revelo
tlon during that period:
•
Though He Himself ,was bent with sorrow. and still suffered
from the effect of the attempt on His life. and though He was
well aware a further banishment was probably Impending. yet,
undaunted by the blow which His Cause had sustained, an the
perils with which It was encompassed. Baha'u'llah arose with
matchless power. even before the ordeal was overpast, to pro-
claim the Mission with which He had been entrusted to those
who. in East and West, had the reins of supreme temPoral
authority In their grasp.
"A period of prodigious activity ensued which, In Its reper-
cussions. outshone the vernal years of Baha'u'llah's mlnlsty. 'Day
and night'. an eyewitness has written, 'The Divine verses were
raining down in such number that It was Impossible to record
them. Mirza Aqa Jan wrote them as they were dictated, while
the Most Great Branch was continually occupied In transcrib-
ing them. There was not a moment to spare .. .' Baha'u'llah,
Himself, referring to the verses revealed by Him. has written:
·such are the outpourings ... from the clouds of Divine Bounty
that within the space of an hour the equivalent of a thousand
verses hath been revealed. So great is the grace vouchsafed
in this day that in a single day and night, were an amanuensis
capable of acompllshlng it to be found, fhe equivalent of the
Persian Bayon would be s~nt down from the heaven of Divine
holiness. I swear by God!' He, in another connection has affirm-
ed, 'In those days the equivalent of all that hath been sent down
aforetime unto the Prophets hath been revealed. Thai which
hath already been revealed in this land (Adrianople)',. He fur-
thermore, referring to the copiousness of His writings, ha

declared. 'secretaries are incapable of transcribing. If has,
therefore remained for the most port untronscribed ·l 1J
•
Among the more weighty of the writings of Baha'u'llah dur-
ing his sojourn in Adrianople are the Tablet .of Ahmad and
above all. the letters to the kings and rulers of the world. These
included the Ottoman Sultan, the Kings of Europe, Muslim ec-
cleslastial leaders, the people of Persia, the wise men and in-
habitants of Constantinople, the Shah of Persia, and the
philosophers of the world.
These Tablets. according
to Shoghi Effendi. "may be
regarded not only as the most outstanding among the. in·
numerable Tablets revealed in Adrianople. but as occupying
a foremost position among all the writing of the author of the
Baha'i Revelation.
1-For a more detailed listing of th,• w11llngs of Boho'u'llah during !his period.
refer lo the index or page.
Overview of Exile
During the forty year period of the Ministry of Baha'u'llah.
His exiles had taken Him from Asia to Europe, thus making
Baha'u'llah the first Manifestation of God known to have lived
on European soil. Abraham, Moses, Christ, Muhammed and
Buddha all lived out their lives in Asia.
Considered to be an important follower of the heretical Babi
Faith, Baha'u'llah and members of his immediate family were
exiled by the Persian government to Baghdad. Baha'u'llah
departed from '(ehran for Iraq on 12 January, 1853.
The exiles suffered extremes hardship from the winter
journey through the snow-bound mountains of western Persia.
Baha'u'llah spent nearly ten years In Iraq. Two years were spent
alone In the wilderness of Kurdistan while the remaining time
was spent In Baghdad.
The enemies of Baha'u'llah, among whom were the Persian
Consul-General in Baghdad and certain divines, being jealous
·of His increasing popularity, succeeded in having him banish-
ed again. A Sultan's decree was issued as a result of Persian
representations to the Ottoman Government and Baha'u'llah
was called to Constantinople. Just before departing, in the
Garden of Ridvan. on the banks of the Euphrates river,
Baha'u'llah declared His station to His companions as "Him
Whom God shall make manifest", the One fortold by the Bab
and anticipated by His followers.

After He had remained five months In the capital of the Ot-
toman Empire. His enemies again sought_to banish Him. They
succeeded. and He was sent to Adrlanople. a city called by
Him 'the remote Prison.· There the Sun of His Revelation ascend-
ed to Its zenith and He proclaimed His Message for the whole
world: Having endured five years of tribulations In this city.
Baha'u'llah was finally exiled to the prison-city of Akka In the
Holy Land. He lived there until His ascension In 1892.
Exile from Baghdad to Constantinople
Baha'u'llah left Baghdad on 22 April 1863 and arrived in
Constantinople on 16 August 1863, the journey being com-
pleted in almost four months. Both Iraq and Turkey were then
part of the Ottoman Empire.
As the subject matter of the book is concerned principally
with Baha'u'llah's sojourn in present-day Turkey, we will begin
our narrative of the exile in Nusaybin, on the border of Iraq, Syria
and Turkey (Map1).
Fifty-four people, including the members of His family, ac-
companied Baha'u'llah to Constantinople. Mirza Yahya, the
ho)f-brother of Baha'u'llah. joined the·party en route. Baha'u'llah
rode a horse part of the way but travelled mostly In a howdah.
The Journey itself was both slow and ·monotonous with no sign
of llfe-tor miles.
A caravan consisting of fifty mules, a mounted guard of ten
soldiers with #leir officer, and seven pairs of howdahs, each
pair surmounted by four parasols, was formed, and wended
its way, by easy stages, and in the space of no less than a hun-
dred and ten days, across the uplands, and through the defiles,
the woods, valleys and pastures, comprising the picturesque
scenery of eastern Anatolia, to the port of Samsun. on the Black
Sea .... He, by virtue of the written order of Namiq Pasha, was
accorded, as He travelled northward, in the path of spring, an
enthusiastic reception by the mudirs, the shaykhs, the muftis.

the government officials and notables belonging to the districts
through which He passed. In villages and hamlets, He would
be met by a delegation Immediately before His arrival. and
would ~e accompanied,
for some distance, by a similar
delegation upon His departure. The festivities which, at some
stations, were held in His honour, the food the villagers prepared
and brought for His acceptance, the eagerness which time and
again they exhibit~d in providing the means for His comfort,
recalled the reverence which the people of Baghdad had
shown Him on so many occasions.
At Nusaybin the caravan pitched its tents by a stream. From
Nusaybln the caravan continued towards Mardin after stopp-
ing at Hasan Aqa. After a three day halt at Mardin, Baha'u'llah
ordered the resumption of the journey. As the caravan passed
through the city of Mardin, Government cavalry,' with flags fly-
ing and drums beating, ., and high officials and notables
escorted them to the outs_kirts of the city. It was the first of a
number of such kingly welcomes for an unknown prisoner on
His way to exile. After three more days of travel, Diyarbakir was
reached. The caravan stayed for three days outside the city.
It was here that Mirza Yahya made himself known to the
believers after having travelled in disguise since Mosul.
From DiyarbakIr the caravan continued on its way to
Ma'din-Mis where it halted for the night. The next day it reach-
ed the fortified city of Kharput. After a few days the caravan
moved on to Ma'dan - nuqrlh. From there they set out for Sivas,
passing through Dilik-Tash. After camping near the city, the
caravan made its way to T okat and on to Amasya where they
stayed for two days outside the town. From Amasya they mov-
ed to lllahiyyih. The caravan set out on the last lap of its long
overland journey, and moved on towards Samsun, on the shores
of the Black Sea.
In Samsun, Baha'u'llah was called on by the Chief Inspec-
tor of the entire province as well as several pashas. Seven days
after His arrival, He was put on board a steamer and arrived,
together with His.fellow-exiles, at noon on Sunday, August 16,
1863, at the port of Constantinople.
The Guardian describes the significance of Baha'u'llah's ar-
rival In Con.stantlnople:
Repeat from before!
'With the arrival of Baha'u'llah at Constantinople, the
capital of the Ottoman Empire, ... the grimmest and the most
cala_mitous and yet the most glorious chapter in the history of
the first Baha'i century may said to have opened. A period In
Which untold privations and unprecedented trials were m)ngl-
ed with noblest spiritual triumphs was now commencing. The
day-star of Baha'u'llah's ministry was about to reach Its zenith."

z
<(
1. Tehran
~~~
I-
2. Baghdad
z
3. Jmirih
<(
er:
4. Nisibin
5. Hasan-Aqa
6. Mardin
7. Diyarbakir
<(
8. Ma'din-Mis
in
9. Kharput
<fl
c;P
::> tJ
<(
a:
_(/'I ~
10. Ma'din-Nuqrih
::c
.c~
Ni
0 <t
11. Dilik-Tash
~
~
12. Sivas
~
:J
1.3. Tokat
.._.
14. Amasya
Cl
..C·
<(
C
15. ilahiyyih
0::
CD 0
16·. Samsun
L-
-
..c
17. Sinope
a.,
18. Anyabuli
::!;
t-
a:
a,
E
19. CONSTANTINOPLE
(Istanbul)
>
.._.
20. Kuchik-Chakmachih
1/'1
::::, 0
L-
21. Buyuk-Chakmachi
er: -
22. Silivri
Q)
23. Birkas
:t'.
>-
X
24. Baba-lski
w
w
25. ADRIANOPLE (Edirne)
'ZI'~
26. Uzun-Kupri
::J
27. Kashanih
I-
z
28. Gallipoli
i5
I)
?1
z
29. Madelli
<(
.._,,
a:
30. Smyrna (Izmir)
. a:
w
I-
31. Alexandria
iS
W·
::.:
32. Port Said
33. Jaffa
34. Haifa
-~
:;;:-
35. AKKA
Q_
~

Constantino13le
The arrival of Baha'u'llah in Constantinople (fig 1.) on 16
August 1863 marks a significant mile~ton~ in th~ unfoldme~t of
His Mission. It was during Baha'u'llah's soJourn in Constantino-
ple that the conciliatory attitude of the authoritie~ c~anged to
that of hostility as a direct consequence of the intrigues and
misrepresentations of the.Persian Ambassador. It was_also dur-
ing that period that the initial phase of the proclamation of the
Message of Baha;u'llah to the kings and rulers of the world was
ushered in by the ·revelation of a Tablet addressed to Sultan
'Abdul'-Aziz.
Flg.1 Constantinople (Istanbul): former capital of the Ottoman Empire.
Baha'u'llah's four-month sojourn in Constantinople has been
characterized by the Guardian of the Baha'i Faith as the "open-
ing scene of one of the most dramatic episodes in the ministry
of Baha'u'llah."
Baha'u'llah arrived in Constantinople in conspicuous ma-
jesty and was received by the authorities with great honour as
He disembarked from the ship.(fig.2) He was driven with all the
members of His family to the residence of Shamsi Big, an official
who was present at the port and appointed by the Government
to entertain its guests. His companions were given accommoda-
tion elsewhere in the city.
Fig. 2 Harbour at Constantinople where Baha'u'llah dis mbark
the steamer that carried Him from Samsun.
The house of Shamsi Big, a two-story bulid111 1111
111f vicinity
of the Kirqiy-i-Sharif mosque (fig.3), proved to b< too small a
residence for Baha'u'llah and after a stay
I on
month in
cramped conditions, He was moved to th h us, of Visi Pasha.
(fig.4) a three storey building more comm cJI us than the first

Fig.3 Kirqiy-i-Sharif Mosque in Constantinople: the house of Shamsi Big,
where Baha'u'llah resided for one month is in the vicinity of this
mosque.
"'·
<: ~- .......
spent
three months. [not the original house]
CJ
___,
0..
C
+J
C
C
a
+-J
Cf)
.c
C
a 0
___,
___,
:::,
a
.c
a
en -
C
L..
:::,
~
Cl
r:::T .c
cJl
ti)
Cl>
d
o,C,~a.,a..
Cl::'.
::, 'iii Cl> U
_, 0 ...... a-·-..,.
d
lf) a_ ·-
<fl > 0 0
ai o-.-l.!>a:
g1 ~ (/)•~ 0
(!J Cl,
•-
·-
·-
.C CJ C C
'O -
O,_
tll '-- '--
c ,O.Y:...,.::,
·-·-
o::, !:::: o OU
'O
_Jtf)Ill..J:WW
:::,
..c
C
0 -
1/)

and situated near the mosque of Sultan Fatih Mehmet (fig.5).
Neither of these houses exist today in its original form.
Fig.5 Mosque of Sulton Fatlh Mehmet situated near the house of Visi
Pasho.
The house of Visi Pasha. like most houses in those days, con
sisted of an inner and an outer apartment. Each consisted of
three storeys. The house had a Turkish bath of its own. a vast
garden and facilities for storing rain water. Baha'u'llah resid-
ed in the inner section on the first floor. and His family occupied
the remainder. In the outer apartment, 'Abdul-Boho lived on
the first floor, the believers on the second, while the third floor
was turned into a store and a kitchen.
The only places Baha'u'llah is known to have visited in Con-
stantinople were mosques and public baths. From time to time.
however, He would visit the house of Mirza Musa to meet various
officials who had come with messages from the Government.
Some four months after Baha'u'llah's arrival in Constantino-
ple, He received word that'He was to banished once more,
upon on edict issued by Sultan 'Abdul-Aziz', again due to the
1 machinations of the Persian Ambassador to Constantinople.

Exile to Adrianople
It was now the heart of winter, which can be very severe
in those eastern parts of Europe. Although carriages, wagons
and pack animals were provided, as well as ox-carts for their
belongings, it was a hard journey, taxing the strength of all, and
it lasted twelve days. Snow was falling as they left Constantino-
ple (fig.8) and they were not clad for freezing weather. Recall-
ing their sufferings, Baha'u'llah declared, "Th~ eyes of Our
enemies wept over Us. and beyond them those of every discer-
ning person. They expelled us ... with such an abasement which
no abasement on earth can compare."
In the late afternoon of the first day the travellers reached
Kucukcekmece (fig.9), about three hours journey frorn Istanbul.
An official. who accompanied
them, found lodgings for
Baha'u'llah. The next day, they left at dawn and arrived towards
noon at Buyukcekmece (fig.10), where they were housed in the
home of a Christian. It was night-time when they took to the road.
again, to reach Silivri (fig. 11 ). Here too they were lodged in the
house of a Christian. At midnight, in pouring rain and intense
cold, they moved out of Silivri and reach~d Birkas (fig.12) the
next day. The last halting place before arrival at Adrianople
was Baba-Eski (fi~.13). (See Map 2)
Fig.6PMosque of Nisanci Pqsha situated across from the house of Vis,
asha.
Fig. 7 Sublime Porte: Seat of Governm~,~t of lh Ottoman Em ire fro
which the decree of banishment of Baha'u'llah to Ad~
1m
was issued.
r1anop e

, ·ig.8 Edirne Gate: the gate in the land walls of Constantinople through
which Baha'u'llah and His entourage passed on their way to Adri-
anople.
/
(])
Q.
C ~.
C
.2
C
0 u
E g
.c
£?
':::,
.c
CJ
CD -
~
·x
UJ
(])
:5 g

Fig. 9. Kucukcekmece: first stop on the road to Adrianople (three houri
journey, by foot, form Constantinople)
. 1"0 Buyukcekmece: bridge into the town where Baha'u'llah rested
before resuming His journey.
Fig.11 Silivri: town where Baha'u'llah rested for one day.
It was Saturday, 12 December 1863, when they arrlv d at
Adrianople, a city characterized by Baha'u'llah as "th place
which none entereth except such as have rebelled against th
authority of a sovereign."
I
\
..

=ig.12 Birkas: fourth town on the route 1o Adrianople.
It
13 Baba-Eski: last halting place before arrival of Baha'u'llah in Ad-
rianopie.
(l)
__,
CL
E C
0 ·c
'-
-0 - <{
..c
+-'
__,
__,
(!J
::J
0 __,
CL
..c 0
C
(D
+-' -
C
+-'
Cl)
(/)
__, C
X
wo
' \
I
I
I
'
'
'
'
,
<(
w
(/)
~
~
_J
a:,
>-
w
~
a::
~
~
,
;
------,
I
l ', '
---... _ .......
_1_,..,.
+:_fi.
-:.:,~
~..,
I
I ... _____
,
w
(_)
w
w
er
l!)
' '
<( a::
<(
l: a::
<(
l:
<(
w
(/)
@
a.

Adrianople
Baha'u'llah unveiled His station gradually and in stages bet-
ween the years 1863 and 1868. His Declaration took place in
• the Garden of Ridvan, in Baghdad, in 1863. As an initial stage
in the announcement of His Revelation, He revealed His station
to only a few of His companions.
The second stage in the revealing of the station of
Baha'u'llah was its announcement mainly to the members of
the Sabi community through the·revelatlon of innumerable
Tablets from Adrlanople as well as the teaching exploits of some
of His outstanding disciples which caused the great majority
of the followers of the Bab to embrace the Cause of Baha'u'llah
and Identify themselves with His name.
The final stage was the majestic proclamation to the world
at large through the kings and leaders. The process of
disintegration and rolling up of the old order had been set in
motion when the summons of the Lord of Hosts to the kings and
rulers of the world was either rejected or ignored. Also in that
short period of time the breaker of the Covenant of Baha'u'llah,
Mirza Yahyp, had been cast out from the community of Baha'is.
The unprecendented
outpouring of the Revelation of
Baha'u'llah which took place lmmediatately after the downfall
·of Mirza Yahya reached Its climax with the revelation of the Surih
of Kings. This most momentous of the Tablets of Baha'u'llah is
chiefly addressed to the kings of the worla collectively. !t pro-
claims the claims of its Author and His station in language of
might and power:
"O Kings of the earth! Give ear unto the Voiee of God. call-
ing from this sublime, this fruit-laden Tree, that hath sprung out
. of the Crimson Hill, upon the holy Plain, intoning the words: 'There
is none other God but He, the Mighty, the All-Powerful, the All-
Wise.' ... Fear God. 0 concourse of kings. and suffer not
yourselves to be deprived of this most sublime grace. Fling
away, then, the things ye possess, and take fast hold on the
Handle of God, the Exalted, the Great. Set your hearts towards
the Face of God. and abandon that which your derlres have
bidden you to follow. and be not of those who perish.''
In Adrianople, a period of prodigious activity ensued which,
in its repercussions, outshone the vernal years of Baha'u'llah's
ministry. "Day and night", an eye-witness has wrl_tte~. 'the Divine
verses were raining down in such number-that it was Impossi-
ble to record them.' "A number of secretaries," Nabll has
testified, "were busy day and night and yet they were unable
to cope with the task. Among _them was Mirza Baqlr-1-Shlrazl
...
He alone transcribed no less than two thousand verses every
day. He laboured during six or seven months. Every month the
equivalent of several, volumes would be transcribed by him and
sent to Persia.':
Baha'u'llah Himself. referring to the verses reveal d by Him,
has written: "Such are the out-pourings ... from the clouds of
Divine Bounty that within the space of an hour the qulvalent
of a thousand verses hath been.revealed." "I swear by God!"
He, in another connection has affirmed, "In thos days (years
in Adrianople) the equivalent of all that hath b
n
nt down
aforetime unto the Prophets hath been reveal d," "That which
hath been revealed In this land (Adrianople,)" H furthermore,
referring to the copiousness of His writings, has declared,

"secretaries are incapable of transcribing. It has, therefore, re-
mained for the most part untranscribed."
In the Arabic Tablet of Ahmad, Bah'u'llah refers to Adriano-·
pie as the "remote prison." This historic city, in a far corner of
the European continent, was the furthest place from His native
land that Baha'u'llah was ever to reach in the course of His
ministry.
Adrianople, now known as Edirne. strategically, situated on
the main route between Asia minor and the Balkans. has been
an important city from ancient times. The city was captured from
the Thracian tribes by the Macedonians, who named It Orestias.
It was rebuilt by the Emperor Hadrian· in the second century AD
and named after him Hadrianopoiis or Adrianopie. It thereafter
had a turbulent history, being the _scene of many battles bet-
ween the Byzantines and other nations until its capture by Ot-
toman Turks in 1362. From .1413 to 1458, Adrianople was the
capital of the rapidly expanding Ottoman Empire. Even after
the capital had been transferred to Istanbul. it continued to be
an important administrative cent$r. At the time of Baha'u'llah's
sojourn there; Adrianople's population was 100,000, greater
than its present population of 87,000. •
On their arrival, Baha'u'llah, His family ari'd companions,
were all huddled together in a caravanserai called Khan+
Arab, (fig.14) where accommodation was poor and restricted.
All that can be said about its location is that it was near the
house of lzzat Aqa. Baha'u'llah stayed there for three nights.
Then a house in the Muradiyyih quarter, in the r.iorth-eastern part
of the city, (fig.15) was procurred for Him and His family, on high
ground and with a good view of the whole of Adrianople.(fig.16)
This quarter centered on the Muradiyyit:l mosque, which was
built by Sultan Murad II. (fig .17) AftE3r a stay of one week in that
house, which was too small, another house in the same quarter
Fig.14 Ottoman-style coravanserai: Baha'u'llah spent the first 1hr
in Adrianople at an inn of this type.
Fig.15 & 16 Muradlyylh quarter of Adrianople: sit of two ot Baha'u'-
llah's residences.

Flg.15 & 16 Muradlyyih quarter of Adrianople: site of two of Baha'u'-
llah's residences.
11 17 Muradlyyih Mosque and sit of Takyih (meeting place) of Maw-
lovls (mystic Sl,Jfi order)
-
btJt more spacious. was obtained for Baha'u'llah. This house was
• close to the Takyih or meeting place of the Mawlavis, a mystic
order going back to the great Sufi poet Ruml. It was adjacent
to the Muradiyyh mosque. The house was demolished in the Rus-
sia!) war in the last century but it has been described as hav-
ing been very large. with eighteen rooms and a Turkish bath
as well as stables" and a large, long garden which extended
down to the river.
•
All these houses were old, draughty and badly constructed
and keeping out the cold was a constant problem. In addition,
the first winter spent in Adrlanople was extremely severe with
frequent snowfalls and sub-zero temperatures.
Baha'u'llah stayed about ten months in that second house
in the Muradiyyah quarter. But since Its accommodation was
•inadequate, and its situation made It lonely and difficult of ac--
cess. He wished to obtain another residence, more com-
modious and easier to reach.
A new house was found, right in the heart of the city, just
outside of the north gate of the Mosque of Sultan Sellm.(flg.18)
This mosque, the glory of Adrianople, was bullt In th sixteenth
century by the architect Sinon. with a great dome high r than
that of Saint Sophia in Istanbul. As to the house, It was a spacious
and magnificent mansion called the house of Amru'llah which
means 'the cause of God.' Its inner quarter of thr
stor ys had
thirty rooms. It had a Turkish bath of its own, with running water
in the kitchen and also a place for the storage an up
r floor
for reception, as well as accommodation
for pr paring and
serving refreshments.(flg.19)

f lg 18 Mosque of Sultan Selim
• Fig.19 Site of the House of Arnr'u'llah
It was during the period of Baha'u'llah's residence in the
house of Amru'llah that Mirza Yahya, at the instigation of Siyyid
Muhammad-i-lsfahani, began openly to show his true intention
of wresting the control of leadership of the Faith from
Baha'u'llah. It was at this time and perhaps even In the house
itself that Mirza Yahya attempted to take the life of Baha'u'llah
through the use of poison and on another occasslon poisoned
the well from which the family and companions of Baha'u'llah
• drew their water.
Further attempts by Mirza Yahya to create a permanent rift
in the community of believers led Boho'u'llah. In Morch of 1866,
to withdraw, with His family, to the house of Rlda Bl . Baha'u'lloh
resided there for one yeor. For the first two months, He refused
to associate with either friend or stranger, Including His own
companions. The reason for Baha'u'llah's s If Im
sad exile was ·

to avoid controversy dnd hostility in order to help preserve uni-
ty among the believers.
The house of Rida Big (fig.20) had both an 011ter<j'nd inner
quarter. The outer quarter had a vast courtyard with a variety.
of trees and bushes and flowers, and Baha'u'llah would occa-
sionally come to the outer quarter, usually late in the afternoon,
to pace up and down this gorden and speak to the compa-
nions. While Baha'u'llah was still living in the house of Rida Big.,
and would, at times, come to spend an hour or two in the or-
chard and meadow near the Muradiyyih quarter. Then the
house of Amru'llah fell vacant again and Baha'.u'llah moved
to It once more. But His second stay in that house was of short
duration, for within six months the owner of the house sold It,
and Baha'u'llah then rented the house of lzzat Aqa in another
quarter of the city- the last of His residences in Adrianople.
Flg.20 House of Rida Big
I
,
The house of lzzat Aqa (fig.21) was newly-built and possess-
: ed a fine view of the river and the southern orchards of the city.
, Fig.21 Site of House of lzzat Aqa
Its room were spacious, and had ample space and large
courtyards planted with a variety of trees. (fig,22).
The Guardian of the Baha'i Faith has described a decisive
event which took place at this time:
"It was In this house, In the month of...Sept. 1867 that an
event of the utmost significance occurred, which completely
. discomfited Mirza Yahy_a and his supporters, and proclaimed .
to friend and foe alike Baha'u'llah's triumph over them. Acer-
tain Mir Muhammad, a Babi of Shiraz greatly resenting alike
the claims and cowardly seclusion of Mirza Yahya, succeed-
ed in forcing Siyyid Muhammad to induce him to meet

t!)
m
<{
0::
LL
w
(f)
:::::>
0 :r:
C
a,
i:, ...
C
l!)
.c
C
>-
-0
::,
~ ~ _g
CJ)
C
co
E
Z;
0 e
.E i:,
C
Cl
I.J... ID
.c
C
E
'-
-
-0
C
a,
.c
ro
~
•
Fig.22 Gardens of the House of lzzat Aqa
Boha'u'llah face to face, so ·that a· discrimination might be
publicly effected between the true and the false. Foolishly
assuming that his illustrious Brother would never countenance
such a proposition, Mirza Yahya appointed the mosque of
Sultan Selim (fig.18) as the place for their encounter. No sooner
had Baha'u'llah been informed of this arrangement than He
set forth, on foot, in the heat of midday, .... for the afore-
mentioned mosque, .... reciting, as He walked, through the
streets and markets, verses, in a voice and In a manner that
greatly astonished those who saw and heard Him."
The news and date of the confrontation b cam
known
among the peoples of Muslim, Christian and J wish r llglons
in the city. Therefore, from the morning of Friday until before
noon, a large multitude drawn from the follow r of th se three
religions had thronged the area betw
n th
house of
• Amru'llah and the entrance to the mosqu : lh
rowd was so
large that it was difficult to move about. Th m
ting was to

be on Friday at the time of the congregational prayer when
the Muslims gather Inside in great numbers.
As Baha'u'llah passed through the crowd, people showed
such reverence as is difficult to describe. They greeted Him with
salutations, bowed and opened the way for Him to pass. Many
of them prostrated themselves at His feet and kissed them.
Baha'u'llah in acknowledgement greeted the crowd and ex-
_
pressed his good wishes. lhis continued all the way to the mos-
que. As soon as He entered the mosque. the preacher. who
was delivering his discourse, became speechless or perhaps
forgot his words.
Those members of the public who were in the mosque were
amazed by what they saw. So powerful were the words of
Baha'u'llah that a Persian man who heard them was awestruck;
he was trembling all over and tears flowed from his eyes.
Baha'u'llah at one point ordered Mir Muhammad to go and
call Mirza Yahya to come with all his sins and transgressions
and face his Lord. Baha'u'llah remained In the mosque till near
sunset, while Mirza Yahya and Slyyld Muhammad stayed at
home and gave some excuses to Mir Muhammad for not at-
tending.
The remaining months In the house of lzzat Aqa constituted
the most fecund period In the whole course of the ministry of
Baha'u'llah. Tablets and v rses flowed continuously from His pen
and His tongue.
The revelation of so many Important Tablets. and the pro-
clamation of Baha'u'llah's M ssage to the kings and rulers of
the world, had endowed the Faith with such ascendancy that
by the summer of 1868 the authorities In Constantinople had
become apprehensive of Its rising prestige and power. Ali
, 42
Pasha, the Prime minister, succeeded In securing_ from Sultan
'Abdul-Aziz an. lmperiol,..~cllct dated 26 July 1868 ordering
Baha'u'llah's ~xlle to the Fortres~ of A~ka and His life Imprison-
ment within the walls .of that pnson-cIty.
.
·,.
Soldiers surrounded the house of Baha'u'llah and and
posted sentinels at Its gates. Eventually all was made ready for •
emigration. Firstly, they brought several carts for the tr~nspor-
tatlon of the luggage, and a number of the companions went
with them. After a week, arrangements were completed for
Baha'u'llah. In the morning, horse-drawn _wqQOns
drew up.and
by the time the remainder of the lugg_age was gathered and
loaded, and the members of the family had taken their seats,
It was about noon. Then Baho'u'llah come out. Close to noon-
tide they were on their way. If was on 12 August 1868 that
Baha'u'llah and His companions 1eft the city which He had call-
ed' 'the.Remote Prison' and 'the Land of Mystery'. A Turkish cap-
tain and ci number of soldiers accompanied them. When night
approached 'they .were three hours from Adrlanople. The
distance between Adrlanople and Gallipoli was covered In five
stages over a period of five days.
Baha'u'llah and His companions rested In Gallipoli for a few
days until a liner arrived. The liner stopped for a few ·hours, at
Madelli and the same night proceeded to Smyrna (Izmir), which
she reached soon after sunrise. She remained anchored at
Smyrna for two days. On the second night, the llner cast off an-
chor to continue the Journey to Alexandria and finally to Akka
thus fulfilling the three thousand year old prophecy of Mica
foretelling the appearance of the Lord_ In these words:
"In that day also he shall come even to thee from Assyria,
and from the fortified cities. and from the fortress v n to the
river, and from sea to sea, and from mountain to mountain."

Sojourn
of Bahoulloh
in
1. Murrodlyoh House
Adriano pie
1863_68
2. Murrodiyah Masque
3. House of Rida Big
4. House of Rida Big
5. House of IZzat Aqa
(Mo1 4)

Afterword
It was during His testing years in Adrianople that Baha'u'llah
proclaimed the Revelation with which God had entrusted Him.
It was a time notable for its dynamism. Its tests and trials, its
challenging events, Its unfaithful who turned to evil and. it
sheroes who stood steadfast against the unfaithful; and above
all It had seen the mighty Revelation of God poured out and
His message pro claimed to the rulers of the world collectively.
The Tablets revealed by Baha'u'llah in this period are so vast
in number that their mere volume Is bound to astonish the un-
biased observer.
The closing years at Adrlanople were also marked by signifi-
cant internal developments. The appellation 'Babi' gave way
to 'Baha'i'; the greeting 'Allah-u-Akbar' (God Is the Greatest) was
replaced by 'Allah-u-Abha' "(God is the Most Glorious).
Guide to Sites
.Istanbul
Both of the houses that Baha'u'llah resided In while in Cons-
tantinople were in the vlcinfty of the historic Fatih mosque (see
Map 2) situated In the heart of the old city.
In order to visit the house of Vlsi P.asha, the second house
in which Baha'u'ilah resided, one must first contact the office
of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha'ls of Turkey. The
telephone numbers are 149-7426 and 143-5162. Arrangements
will be made for a guide from the National office to accom-
pany you·to the house. The mosque of Nisancl Pasha can be
. visited by leaving the house and walking across the road.
.
If. after having visited the house and the mosque of Nisan-
ci Pasha, you wish to visit either of the mosques associated with
Baha'ullah's sojourn In Constantinople, turn right as you leave
the front door and walk for one block until you reach Fevzi Pasha
Caddesi (street). To reach the Fatih Mosque, turn left and walk
until you reach a long wall with large entrance gates and steps
leading up to the courtyard of the mosque.
The Hlrkai Sherif mosque, near which the first of Baha'u'llah's
residences was situated, can be reached by leaving the house
of Visi Pasha and after crossing Fevzl Pasha Caddesl turn left
and walk until you reach Aksemsettin Caddesl. Turn right and
continue until you reach Kececiler Caddesi where you will turn
right again. Walk along this street until you see. on your right,
a mosque situated on a low rise. Turn right and follow the win-
ding road until you reach the entrance of the mosqu .
1-The only places Boha'u'llah visited in Istanbul were pu II
ques. As the mosques mentioned above were in the lmmedl I vi lnlty ol both
of Baha'u'llah's residences, It Is likely. though not dellnll , th t th .. were the
mosque_s that were by Boha'u'llah.

Istanbul to Edirne
1.Car: If you are travelling by car. follow MIiiet Caddesi. one
of Istanbul's principal thoroughfares. and leave the old city
through the Topkapl Gate. This road then merges Into the E-5
highway. the main expressway to Europe. This rood was formerly
the Londra Asfalti and follows. to a large extent. the same route
. taken by Baha'u'llah on the exile to Adrianople. The journey
takes approximately three hours.
2.Bus:.lfyou aretravelllng
1by bus goto the Topkapi bus Ter-
minal. the main terminal for all of Istanbul. Go the to Trakya
Garajl and simply say to anyone. 'Edlrne', and you will be
directed to the appropriate ticket office. Tl)e journey takes ap-
proximately four hours by bus.
Edirne
Upon arrival in Edirne by car, following the map, go to 9
Yusuf Hoja Mektep Sokak, the site of the house of lzzat Aqa and
the residence of the caretaker of the Baha'i Holy Places. If you
arrive py bus, take a taxi to the same address. (See Map 4)
The present house is not the original but the gardens are
part of the property of the house of lzzat Aqa. After having walk-
ed about the gardens. the caretakers will escort you to the
house of Rida Big which has been restored to its original con-
dition at the time of Baha'u'llah's sojourn there. (see map 5) After
you have finished your visit here, the caretaker will return to the
house of lzzat Aqa and you will continue your visits on your own.
Turn left as you exit the gate of the house of Rlda Big and,
using the minarets of th~ Selimiye mosque as a guide, walk un-
til you reach Mimar Sinon Sokak. Turn left and just in front of the
North gate of Selimiye mosque you will see o vacant lot In front
of an old Ottoman timber house. This is the site on which tood
the mansion of Amru'llah. Nothing remains of the dw lllng
today.
Enter the gate of the courtyard of the mosque
it through one of the many entrances. It was in this mo
u that
Baho'u'lloh come in order to confront Mirza Yahy ov r the
leadership of the Faith.
After visiting the mosque, exit the some g
by and turn right. Continue along Mimar Sinon

reach Blylr Sokak. Turn right and walk up the hill and you will
see the Murradlyah Mosque Qn your left. The two houses In
which Baha'u'llah resided no longer exist but they are known
to have been in the Immediate vicinity of the mosque, one
beside the main gate and another behind the mosque. at the
bottom of the steps leading up to It. The meeting place of the
Mawlavls was somewhere adjacent to the mosque.
The Tablet of Ahmad
He Is the King, the All-Knowing, the Wise!
Lo, the Nightingale of Paradise singeth upon the twigs of
the Tree of Eternity, with holy and sweet melodies. proclaiming
to the sincere ones the glad tidings of the nearness of God, call-
ing the believers In the Divine Unity to the court of the Presence
of the Generous One, Informing the severed ones of the
message which hath been revealed by God. the King, the
Glorious. the Peerless. guiding the lovers to the seat of sanctity
and to this resplendent Beauty.
Verily this Is that Most great Beauty, foretold In the Books
of the Messengers. through Whom truth shall be distinguished
from error and the wisdom of every command shall be tested.
Verily He Is the Tree of Life that brlngeth forth the fruits of God.
the Exalted. the Powerful, the Great .
. 0 Ahmadi Bear thou witness that verily He Is God and there
Is no God but Him, the King, the Protector, the Incomparable,
the Omnipotent. And that the One Whom He hath s n.t forth by
the name of 'All (I.e. His Holiness the Bab)was the true One from
God, to Whose commands we are all conforming.
Say: 0 people be obedient to the ordinances of God. which
have been enjoined In the Boyan by the Glorious, the Wise One.
Verily He Is the King of the Messengers and His Book la the Mother
Book did ye but know.

Thus doth the Nightingal~ utter His call unto you from this
prison. He hath but to deliver this clear ..message. Whosoever
desireth. let him turn aside from this counsel" and whosoever
desireth let him choose the path to his Lord._
0 people. If ye deny these verses. by what proof have ye
believed In God? Produce It, o assemblage of false ones.
Nay. by the One in Whose hand is my soul. they are not.
and never shall be able to do this. even should they combine
to assist one another.
0 Ahmadi Forget not my bounties while I am apsent.
Remember My days during thy days, and My distress and
banishment in this remote prison. And be thou so steadfast in
My love that thy heart shall not waver. even If the swords of the
enemies rain blows upon thee and all the heavens and the
earth arise against thee.
Be thou as a flame of fire to My enemies and a river of life
eternal to My loved ones. and be not of those who doubt.
And if thou art overtaken by affliction in My path or
degradation for My sake, be not thou troubled thereby.
Rely upon God. thy God and the Lord of thy fathers. For the
p~ople are wandering In the paths of delusion. bereft of
discernmentto see God with their own eyes, or hear His Melody
with their own ears. Thus have we found them. as thou also dost
witness.
Thus have their superstitions become veils between them
and their own hearts and kept them from the path of God. the
·Exalted.the Great.
Be thou assured in thyself that verily. he who turns away from
this Beauty hath also turned away from the Messengers of the
past and showeth prlde_towards God from all eternity to all
eternity.
.
learn well this Tablet. 0 Ahmad. Chant It during thy days
and withhold not thyself therefrom. For verily, God hath ordain-
ed for the one who chants it, the reward of a hundred martyrs
and a service in both worlds These_ favors have We bestowed
upon thee as a bounty on Our part and a mercy from Our
presence. that thou mayest be of those wh? are grateful.
By Godl Should one who Is In affliction or grief read this
Tablet with absolute sincerity, God will dispel .his sadness. solve
his difficulties and remove his afflictions.
Verily. He is the Merciful. the Compassionate. Praise be to
God. the Lord of all the worlds.
-Baha'u'llah
1-'This remote prison' refers to the cHy of Adrfanople where BahO'u'llah reveal-
. eel this Tablet.
•

Writings of Baha'u'llah revealed in
Constantinople and Adrianople
MATHNAVl,-1-MUBARAK
TABLET OF HAWDAJ
TABLET OF AHMAD (ARABIC)
TABLET OF AHMAD (PERSIAN)
TABLET OF BAHA
TABLET OF RU
SURtV-1-DAMM
SURIHS OF HAJJ
LAWH-1-SULTAN
(Tablet to 'Abdu'I-Aziz)
SURIV-1-ASHAB
KITAB-1-BADI
SURIV-1-MULUK
(Tablet of the Kings)
PRAYERS
FOR FASTING
LAWH-1-NAPULVUN I (First Tablet to Napoleon Iii)
LAWH-1-NUQTIH
SUBHANIKA-VA-HU
SURIH-1-GHUSN
SURIH-1-RA'IS
LAWH-1-SALMAN
LAWH-1-NASIR
LAWH-1-KHALIL
LAWH-1-KHALIL
LAWH-1-SIRAJ
LAWH-1-ASHRAF
LAWH-1-LA
VLATU'L-QUDS
Bibliography
Note: This compilation is only a brief survey of the period
of Baha'u'ilah's life in Constantinople and Adrianople. The in-
formation in this guide has been gleaned primarily from the
sources mentioned below. For a more detailed account of the
life of Baha'u'llah and the development of the Baha'i Faith.
these books are recommended.
SHOGHI EFFENDI. God Passes By. Wilmette. 111/nols:
Baha'i
Publishing Trust. 1965.
BALVUZI.
H.M. Boha'u'llah: The King of Glory. Oxford: GeorQe
Ronald. 1980
TAHERZADEH.
ADIB. The Revelation of Boha'u'l/ah. Volume
Two. Oxford: George Ronald. 1977
The Baha'i World Volume V + XVI