Professor Anne-Marie Schimmel
Note on Mishkf n Qalam
Every visitor who comes to the Sackler Museum of Art at the Harvard
University is attracted by a beautiful calligraphic picture showing a golden
rooster on a radiant blue background -- one of the few items in the Near
Eastern Galleries whose reproduction as a greetings card is available in the
Museum Shop.
We are often ~sked about the rooster's provenience and its meaning, and
try to explain its importance to our visitors: throughout Iranian history the
~ooster was a bird connected with light, the herald of the true morning and,
m the Islamic tradition, of the time for dawn prayer -- hence a bird whose
picture evokes thoughts of'clarity and ~plendor, baha. It is, therefore, not
surprising that the leading Baha'i calligrapher, Mishkin Qalam, has devoted
some of his calligraphic paintings to the representation of this bird of light,
made up from religious formulas.
For Mimkin Qalam was not only a master calligrapher. Born in Iran in
early nineteenth century, he became an ardent believer in the Baha'i Faith
and spent a considerable time in Turkey -- first in Edirne, then in Istanbul'.
However, on the instigation of the then Persian ambassador he was like
many other Baha'fs, imprisoned between 1885 and 1894 in Famagusta'. He
also spent a few years in India. He died in the Holy Land in the early years
of the twentieth century. His art was greatly admired in Iran and the
countries under her cultural influence, and E. G. Browne remarks in his
account of his sojourn in Iran (A Year among the Persians) that Mishkin
Oalam'~ calligraphies were very famous and would be eagerly sought after
by Persians of all classes, were it not for his signature which betrayed him
as a Baha'f and made him, therefore, unacceptable for a faithful Shiite.
This is certainly a sad statement, for there is no doubt that Mishkfn Qalam
(he with the musk black, fragrant pen) is one of the fmest calligraphers at
the turn of this century. He wrote in different styles, especially in nasta'liq,
and his crisp, clear hand immediately proves that he grew up in the
tradition of Mir 'Imad (assassinated 1615), the leading master of Safavid
Iran, about whom the Mughal Emperor Jahangir said:"If Shah 'Abbas had
sent him to me I would have paid his weight in pearls."
Mimkin Qalam's firm hand makes the observer feel that he was well versed
in large inscriptions for be forms his letters ( e.g, the wide initial !fh.) in the
style used in architectural inscriptions. His rounded letters in nast'lfq are
of flawless beauty, and the upper endings of the high strokes show that he
liked to write with a sharp, freshly cut pen by which the contrasts between
the thin and the thick strokes become very prominent so as to enhance the
writing's beauty. Remarkable is also his elegant way of writing the heart-
shaped medial h which occurs so frequently in the words baha and abha.
Mishkin Qalam would not be such a widely acclaimed artist had he
remained always faithful to the traditional style. His writings show some
innovative trends which were to become more prominent in the calligraphies
of a later period; his way of somewhat softening the end of the ra is a
novelty. Not satisfied with writing only traditional nasta'/lq or inventing
delightful birds, Mishkin Qalam tuned in with those who tried to give
calligraphy a new character by creating as it were calligraphic porticoes or
curtains, and he perfectly mastered the art of mirror script which had
become very popular in Turkey in his days for pious formulas and
invocations.
A firm hand, a flawless technique in shaping the letters, a vast imaginative
power and a deep love for calligraphy as a means of expressing religious
feelings, these are the qualities of Mishkin Qalam, a truly great master
whose influence--beyond the Golden Rooster--can be detected in the works
of the masters in our century.