BAHA'i
PROCEDURE
Instructions from Shoghi Effendi, and Procedures and
Rulings Adopted by the National Spiritual Assembly,
Compiled from the Guardian's Letters, Baha'i News,
and Minutes and Records of the National Assembly, for
the Information of American Baha'is.
Section One
Material Defining the Attitude and Aetion of the Individual Baha'i.
Section Two
Instructions and Proeedures for the Local Spiritual Assembly.
Section Three
The Function and Proeedure of the Annual Convention.
Section Four
Instructions and Procedures for the National Spiritual Assembly.
---:--
Compiled by the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Baha'is of the United States and Canada, 1936-1937.
Note: Additions and Revisions Will be Made in these Sheets from Time to Time,
as Conditions Change. Recommendations are Requested from Spiritual Assem-
blies for the Improvement of this Secondary Administrative material.
Copyright 1937
I
I
BAHA'I PUBLISHING COMMITTEE
P. 0. Box 348, Grand Central Annex, New York
1937.
Printed in U.S. A.

BAHA'1 PROCEDURE
QUALIFICATIONS OF A
BELIEVER
Regarding the very delicate and complex
question of ascertaining the qualifications of
a true believer, I cannot in this connection
emphasize too strongly the supreme neces-
sity for the exercise of the utmost discretion,
caution and tact, whether it be in deciding
for ourselves as to who may be regarded a
true believer or in disclosing to the outside
world such considerations as may serve as
a basis for such a decision.
I would only
venture to state very briefly and as ade-
quately as present circumstances permit the
principal factors that must be taken into
consideration before deciding whether a per-
son may be regarded a true believer or not.
Full recognition of the station of the Fore-
runner, the Author, and the True Exemplar
of the Baha'i Cause, as set forth in 'Abdu'l-
Baha's Testament; unreserved acceptance of,
and submission to, whatsoever has been re-
vealed by their Pen; loyal and steadfast ad-
herence to every clause of our Beloved's
sacred Will ; and close association with the
spirit as well as the form of the .present day
Baha'i administration
throughout the world
-these
I conceive to be the fundamental and
primary considerations that must be fairly,
dicreetly and thoughtfully ascertained before
reaching such a vital decision. Any attempt
at further
analysis and elucidation will, I
fear, land us in barren discussions and even
grave controversies
that would prove not
only futile but even detrimental to the best
interests of a growing Cause. I would there-
fore strongly urge those who are called upon
to make such a decision to approach this
highly involved and ever-recurring problem
with the spirit of humble prayer, and earnest
consultation, and to refrain from drawing
rigidly the line of demarcation except on such
occasions when the interests of the Cause
absolutely demand it.-SH0GHI EFFENDI.
LAWS OF THE AQDAS
In view of the importance of such a state-
ment he feels it his duty to explain that the
Laws revealed by Baha'u'llah in the Aqdas
are, whenever practicable and not in direct
conflict with the Civil Laws of the land, ab-
solutely binding on every believer or Baha'i
institution
whether in the East or in the
West.
Certain laws, such as fasting, obli-
gatory prayers, the consent of the parents
before
marriage,
avoidance
of alcoholic
drinks, monogamy, should be regarded by all
believers as universally and vitally applica-
ble at the present time.
Others have been
formulated in anticipation of a state of so-
SECTION ONE, SHEET 1
ciety· destined to emerge from the chaotic
conditions that prevail today.
When the
Aqdas is published this matter will be fur-
thei: explained and elucidated. What has not
been formulated in the Aqdas, in addition to
matters of detail and of secondary import-
ance arising out of the application of the
laws already formulated by Baha'u'llah, will
have to be enacted by the Universal House o:t
Justice.
This body can supplement
but
never invalidate or modify in the least de-
gree what has already been formulated by
Baha'u'llah.
Nor has the Guardian
any
right whatsoever to lessen the binding effect
much less to abrogate the provisions of so
fundamental and sacred a Book.
Already in Egypt, Persia, India and Iraq,
Assemblies, both local and national,
are
availing themselves of the opportunity which
the autonomy granted to Eastern religious
communities in matters of personal status
has offered them, to press for the recognition
by the civil authorities of such Laws of the
Aqdas which they conscientiously feel they
must uphold and enforce.
They have even,
under certain circumstances,
preferred
to
suspend their activities and dissolve their in-
stitutions rather than follow the dictates of
those officials who have tried to induce them
to violate what has been expressly ordained
by the Author of their Faith.
The Guardian will, when the Aqdas is pub-
lished, elaborate this fundamental principle
of our Faith.
This brief reference, he feels,
is adequate for any reference you wish to
make regarding
this matter in the News
Letter.-SH0GHI
EFFENDI.
DAILY OBLIGATORY
PRAYER
The daily obligatory prayers are three in
number .. The shortest one consists of a sin-
gle verse which has to be recited once in
every twenty-four hours and at midday. The
medium (prayer)
which begins with the
words : "The Lord is witness that there is
none other God but He", has to be recited
three times a day, in the morning, at noon
and in the evening. The long prayer which
is the most elaborate of the three has to be
recited once in every twenty-four hours, and
at any time one feels inclined to do so.
The believer is entirely free to choose any
one of those three prayers, but is under the
obligation of reciting either one of them, and
in accordance with any specific directions
with which they may be accompanied.
These daily obligatory prayers, together
with a few other specific ones, such as the
Healing Prayer, the Tablet of Ahmad, have
been invested by Baha'u'llah with a special

BAHA't PROCEDURE
potency and significance, and should there-
fore be accepted as such and be recited by
the believers with unquestioned faith and
confidence, that through them they may enter
into a much closer communion with God,
and identify themselves more fully with His
laws and precepts.-SH0GHI
EFFENDI.
THE ORDINANCE OF
FASTING
As regards fasting, it constitutes, togeth-
er with the obligatory prayers, the two pil-
lars that sustain the revealed Law of God.
They act as stimulants to the soul, strength-
en, revive and purify it, and thus insure its
steady development.
The ordinance of fas ting is, as is the case
with these three prayers,* a spiritual and
vital obligation enjoined by Baha'llah upon
every believer who has attained the age of
fifteen.
In the Aqdas He thus writes: "We
have commanded you to pray and fast from
the beginning of maturity ; this is ordained
by God, your Lord and the Lord of your fore-
fathers.
He has exempted from this those
who are weak from illness or age, as a
bounty from His Presence, and He is the
Forgiving, the Generous."
And in another
passage He says: "We have enjoined upon
you fasting during a brief period, and at
its close have designated for you Naw-Ruz
as a feast. . . . The traveler, the ailing,
those who are with child or giving suck, are
not bound by the fast. . . . Abstain from
food and drink, from sunrise to sundown,
and beware lest desire deprive you of this
grace that is appointed· in the Book."
Also in the "Questions and Answers" that
form an appendix to the Aqdas, Baha'u'llah
reveals the following: "Verily, I say that
God has appointed a great station for fast-
ing and prayer.
But during good health its
benefit is evident, and when one is ill, it is
not permissible to fulfill them."
Concern-
ing the age of maturity, He reveals in the
appendix of that same book: "The age of
maturity is in the fifteenth year; women and
men are alike in this respect."
Regarding
the vital character
and im-
portance of the Divine ordinances and laws,
and the necessity of complete obedience to
them by the believers, we thus read in the
Gleanings, p. 175: "Know verily that the es-
sence of justice and the source thereof are
both embodied in the ordinance prescribed
by Him Who is the Manifestation of the Self
of God amongst men, if ye be of them that
recognize this truth.
He doth verily incar-
nate the highest, the infallible standard of
* The three obligatory daily prayers, any one of
which the believer is free to choose.
SECTION ONE, SHEET 2
justice unto all creation.
Were His law to
be such as to strike terror into the hearts of
all that are in heaven and on earth, that law
is naught but manifest justice.
The fears
and agitation which the revelation of this
law provoke in men's hearts should indeed
be likened to the cries of the sucking babe
weaned from his mother's milk, if ye be of
them that perceive ... ,"
The fasting period, which lasts nineteen
days starting as a rule from the second of
March every year and ending on the twen-
tieth of the same month, involves complete
abstention from food and drink from sun-
rise till sunset.
It is essentially a period of
meditation and prayer, of spiritual recupera-
tion, during which the believer must strive
to make the necessary readjustments
in his
inner life, and to refresh and reinvigorate
the spiritual forces latent in his soul.
Its
significance and purpose are, therefore, fun-
damentally spiritual in character. Fasting is
symbolic, and a reminder of abstinence from
selfish and carnal desires.-SHOGHI EFFENDI.
THE BAB AND
BAHA'U'LLAH IN DRAMAS
With reference to your question whether
the figures of the Bab and Baha'u'llah should
be made to appear as characters in dramatic
works written by the believers, Shoghi Ef-
fendi's opinion is that such an attempt to
dramatize the Manifestations would be high-
ly disrespectful, and hence should be avoided
by the friends, even in the case of the Mas-
ter.
Besides it would be practically impos-
sible to carry out such a -plan faithfully,
and in a dignified and befitting manner.-
SH0GHI EFFENDI.
TRANSLATION OF
SYMBOL OF THE
GREATEST NAME
He also wishes me to inform you that
the symbol of the Greatest Name represents
an invocation which can be translated either
as "0 Glory of Glories" or "0 Glory of the.
All--Glorious." The word glory used in this
connection is a translation
of the Arabic
term "Baba," the name of Baha'u'llah.-
SHOGHI EFFENDI.
TRANSLITERATION OF
PERSIAN BAHA'l TERMS
The friends are reminded of the Guardian's
wish that in all printed literature
of the
Cause, the Persian
words and terms be
transliterated according to the correct stand-

BAHA't PROCEDURE
ard observed by the Guardian. This standard
will be found in The Baha'i World, Vol. IV.
-N.S.A.
SYMBOL OF THE
GREATEST NAME
The friends will be happy to learn that the
use of this Symbol is now legally protected
for proper Baha'i use under the trade mark
registration
recently made by the National
Spiritual Assembly through the U. S. Patent
Office.
After careful consideration of the signifi-
cance of this sacred Symbol, the Assemby
has voted that its use should be confined to
books and pamphlets containing the words
of Baha'u'llah.-N.
S. A.
DISTINCTION BETWEEN
TABLETS AND TALKS
Shoghi Effendi has laid down a principle
that the Ba:ha'is should not attribute much
importance to talks, reported to have been
given by the Master, if these have not in
one form or other obtained His sanction.
Baha'u'llah has made it clear enough that
only those things that have been revealed in
the form of Tablets have a binding power
over the friends.
Hearsays may be matters
of interest but can in no way claim author-
ity. This basic teaching of Baha'u'llah was
to preserve the Faith from being corrupted
like Islam which attributes binding author-
ity to all the reported sayings of Muham-
mad.
This being a basic principle of the Faith
we should not confuse Tablets that were ac-
tually revealed and mere talks attributed to
the founders of the Cause.
The first have
absolute binding authority while the latter
can in no way claim our obedience.
The
highest th~ng this can achieve is to influence
the activities of the one who has heard the
saying in person.
Those talks of the Master that were later
reviewed by Him and corrected or in some
other form considered authentic by Himself,
such as the Some Answered Questions, these
could be considered as Tablets and there-
fore be given the necessary binding power.
All the other talks such as are included in
Ahmad's diary or the other diaries of pil-
grims do not fall under this category and
could be considered only as interesting ma-
terial to be taken for what they are worth,
For this reason Shoghi Effendi has not
been encouraging the publication of reported
sayings that were not authenticated by the
Master Himself. Shoghi Effendi is trying to
prevent the friends from considering as ac-
SECTION ONE, SHEET 3
tual words of the Master things that were
not authenticated iby Him.-SHOGHI EFFENDI.
STORIES ABOUT
'ABDU'L-BAHA
He would also urge you to attach no im-
portance to the stories told about 'Abdu'l-
Baha or to those attributed
to Him by the
friends.
These should be regarded in the
same light as the notes and impressions of
visiting pilgrims.
They need not be sup-
pressed, but they should not also be given
prominence or official recognition.-SH0GHI
EFFENDI.
CONCERNING LETTERS
FROM HAIFA
I wish to add and say that whatever let-
ters are sent in my behalf from Haifa are
all read and approved by me before mailing.
There is no exception whatever to this rule.
-SHOGHI
EFFENDI.
THE GUARDIAN'S
LET-
TERS TO INDIVIDUALS
As regards Shoghi Effendi's letters to the
individual Baha'is, he is always very careful
not to contradict himself.
He has also said
that whenever he has something of import-
ance to say, he invariably communicates it
to the National Spiritual Assemlbly or in his
general letters.
His personal letters to in-
dividual friends are only for their personal
benefit and even though he does not want to
forbid their ,publication, he does not wish
them to be used too much by the Baha'i
News. Only letters with special significance
should be published there.-SH0GHI
EFFEN-
DI.
THE GUARDIAN'S RELA-
TION TO INDIVIDUAL
BELIEVERS
As to the important issue you have raised
in this connection regarding the nature and
significance of the ties which must unite in-
dividual Baha'is with their
Guardian,
it
should be made clear that such a relation-
ship, ,though it transcends any relationship
to an Assembly, is by no means intended to
curtail the authority
of the administrative
bodies of the Cause, that it rather serves to
strengthen and consolidate the unity of the
Administration.
Administrative
efficiency
and order should always ·be accompanied by
an equal degree of love, of devotion and of

BAHA'f PROCEDURE
spiritual development.
Both of them are es-
sential and to attempt to dissociate one from
the other is to deaden the body of the Cause.
In these days, when the Faith is still in its
infancy, great care must be taken lest mere
administrative routine stifles the spirit which
must feed the body of the Administration
itself.
That spirit is its propelling force
and the motivating power of its very life.
But as already emphasized, both the spirit
and the form are essential to the safe and
speedy development of the Administration.
To maintain full balance between them is the
main and unique responsibility of the admin-
istrators of the Cause.
It is invariably my purpose and constant
effort to uphold and reinforce the adminis-
trative principles of the Faith, and I trust
that nothing will be allowed to interfere with
the proper functioning of these administra-
tive bodies.-SHOGHI EFFENDI.
GUARDIAN REQUESTS
BAHA'fS NOT TO OBSERVE
HIS BIRTHDAY
I wish to add a few words in person re-
garding the commemoration of my birthday
anniversary.
I would earnestly request all
the believers and Assemblies not to observe,
under any circumstances, whether officially
or privately, my birthday anniversary.
I
strongly feel that only anniversaries in con-
nection with the life of the Bab, Baha'u'llah
and •Abdu'l-Baha should be celebrated by the
believers. It will, I am sure, prove conducive
to my own spiritual growth and happiness,
and would be in the best interests of our
beloved Faith.
I trust that you will acquaint
all the believers with this insistent request
of mine and I feel sure that they will all
joyfully respond.-SHOGHI
EFFENDI.
CONGREGATIONAL
PRAYER
"Regarding the practice of congregational
prayer, the Guardian wishes you to know
that this form of prayer has been enjoined
by Baha'u'llah
only for the dead.
In all
other circumstances
there is no obUgation
whatever imposed upon the believers.
When
the Aqdas is published the form of congre-
gational prayer
prescribed
by Baha'u'llah
will be made clear to all the believers.-
SHOGHI EFFENDI.
•
NATURE OF BAHA'f
MARRIAGE
In regard to your question concerning the
nature and character
of Baha'i marriage.
As you have rightly stated, such a marriage
SECTION ONE, SHEET 4
is conditioned upon the full approval of all
four parents.
Also your statement to the
effect that the principle of the oneness of
mankind prevents any true Baha'i from re-
garding race itself as a bar to union is in
complete accord with the Teachings of the
Faith on this point.
For both Baha'u'llah
and 'Abdu'l-Baha never disapproved of the
idea of inter-racial
marriage,
nor discour-
aged it.
The Baha'i Teachings, indeed, by
their very nature transcend all limitations
imposed by race, and as such can and should
never be identified with any particular school
of racial philosophy.-SHOGHI EFFENDI.
BAHA't FUNERAL
SERVICE
Regarding the Baha'i funeral service: it
is extremely simple, as it consists only of a
congregational
prayer
to be read before
burial.
This prayer will be made available
to the friends when the Aqdas is translated
and published.
In the meantime your N.
S. A. should take great care lest any uniform
procedure or ritual in this matter be adopted
or imposed upon the friends.
The danger in
this, as in some other cases regarding Baha'i
worship, is that a definite system of rigid
rituals and practices be developed among the
believers.
The utmost simplicity and flexi-
bility should be observed, and a selection
from the Baha'i Sacred Writing would serve
the puil)<>Se at the present time, provided
this selection is not rigidly and uniformly
adopted on all such occasions.-SHOGHI EF-
FENDI.
THE USE OF RINGSTONES
AND BURIAL STONES
In regard to the use of ringstones and
burial stones, the Guardian leaves this mat-
ter at present entirely to the discretion of
the believers, and has no objection if your
Assembly provides facilities for their pur-
chase by the friends.
When the "Kita'b-i-
Aqdas" is published the necessary instruc-
tions will be given regarding this matter.-
SHOGHI EFFENDI.
TAXES AND
SPIRITUAL OFFERINGS
There is a difference betwen taxes and
spiritual offerings.
The House of Justice
has certain
revenues such as inheritance
shares, fees and fines. These are the taxes
which, according to the Aqdas, go directly
not to the Guardian but to the House of Jus-
tice. According to the Master's Will which

BAHA't PROCEDURE
complements the Aqdas, the Huquq goes
only to the Guardian.-SHOGHI
EFFENDI.
IMPORTANCE OF
ARCHIVES
The importance
of the institution
of
Baha'i Archives is not due only to the many
teaching facilities it procures, but is espe-
cially to be found in the vast amount of his-
torical data and information it offers both
to the present-day
administrators
of the
Cause, and to the Baha'i historians of the
future.
The institution of Baha'i Archives
is indeed a most valuable storehouse of in-
formation regarding all the aspects of the
Faith, administrative
as well as doctrinal.
Future generations of believers will be sure-
ly in a better position than we are to truly
and adequately appreciate the many advan-
tages and facilities which the institution of
the Archives offers to individual 1believers
and also to the community at large.
Now that the Cause is rapidly passing
through so many different phases of its evo-
lution, is the time for the friends to exert
their utmost in order to preserve as much
as they can of the sacred relics and various
other precious objects that are associated
with the lives of the Founders of the Faith,
and particularJy the Tablets They have re-
vealed.
Every believer should realize that he has
a definite responsibility to -shoulder in this
matter, and to help, to whatever extent he
can, in rendering
successful the valuable
work! which national and local Baha'i Ar-
chives committees are so devotedly accom-
plishing for the Faith in America.-SH0GHI
EFFENDI.
PRESERVATION OF
RELICS
Regarding the preservation of relics asso-
ciated with ·Abdu'l-Baha, the general prin-
ciple should be that any object used by Him
in person should be preserved for posterity,
whether in the local or the national archives.
It is the duty and responsibility of the Ba-
ha'i Assemblies to ascertain carefully wheth-
er such objects are genuine or not, and to
exercise the utmost care and caution in the
matter.-SHOGHI EFFENDI.
TEMPLE MEETINGS
As to the character of the meetings in the
Auditorium of the Temple, he feels that they
should ,be purely devotional in character,
Baha'i addresses
and lectures
should be
strictly excluded.
For the present, he feels
that there would be no objection to having
Baha'i meetings including addresses and the
SECTION ONE, SHEET 5
business sessions of the Convention held in
the Foundation Hall. Shoghi Effendi would
urge that choir singing by men, women and
children be encouraged in the Auditorium
and that rigidity in the Baha'i service be
scrupulously avoided.
T·he more universal
and informal the character of Baha'i wor-
ship in the Temple the better.
Images and
pictures, with the exception of the Greatest
Name, should be strictly excluded. Prayers
revealed by Baha'u'llah and the Master as
well as the sacred writings of the Prophets
should be read or chanted as well as hymns
based upon Baha'i or non-Baha'i
sacred
writings.
CHANTING IN THE
TEMPLE
As regards the chanting of Tablets in the
Temple, Shoghi Effendi wishes in this con-
nection to urge the friends to avoid all forms
of rigidity and uniformity
in matters
of
worship.
There is no objection to the recital
or chanting of prayers in the Oriental lan-
guage, but there is also no obligation what-
soever of adopting such a form of prayer at
any devotional service in the auditorium of
the Temple.
It should neither be required
nor prohibited.
The important thing that
should always be borne in mind is that with
the exception of certain specific obligatory
prayers, Baha'u'llah has given us no strict
or special ruling in matters· of worship,
whether in the Temple or elsewhere.
Pray-
er is essentially a communion between man
and God, and as such transcends all ritual-
istic forms and formulae.-SHOGHI EFFENDI.
DRAMATIC PERFOR-
MANCES IMPROPER FOR
FOUNDATION HALL
Shoghi Effendi feels it to be inadvisable
that the Temple Foundation Hall be used for
dramatic performances.
He believes that
only Baha'i meetings, and business sessions
of the Convention, can be held in it until
such time as the erection of a special edifice
for this purpose has been undertaken by the
American friends.-SHOGHI
EFFENDI.
HOW FUNDS ARE TO BE
CONTRIBUTED
You asked concerning some plans whereby
funds could be gathered for the Temple.
Shoghi Effendi believes that the best and
noblest method is to have free donations that
are made spontaneously and with the sense
of making some sacrifice in f uthering the
. Cause. It is with sacrifice that this Temple

BAHA't PROCEDURE
is to be built.
This is the truly worthy
method.
This principle therefore excludes
any method whereby the help of non-Baha'is
is included.-SHOGHI EFFENDI.
TEST OF FAITH
He wishes you particularly to impress the
• believers with the necessity of maintaining
the flow of their contributions to the Temple,
and also to stress the importance of the in-
stitution of the National Baha'i Fund which,
in these early days of the administrative de-
velopment of the Faith, is the indispensable
medium for the growth and expansion of the
Movement. Contributions to this fund consti-
tute, in addition, a practical and effective
way whereby every believer can test the
measure and character of his faith, and to
prove in deeds the intensity of his devotion
and attachment to the Cause.-SH0GHI EF-
FENDI.
THE NINETEEN DAY
FEAST
This institution,
established by Baha'u' -
llah, has been described by the Guardian as
the foundation of the new World Order. The
National
Spiritual
Assembly understands
that it is incumbent upon every believer, un-
less ill or absent from the city, to attend each
of these Feasts.
In a general letter issued to Local Spiri-
tual Assemblies ·several years ago, it was
pointed out that the Guardian instructs that
the Nineteen Day Feast be held according to
the following program:· the first part, en-
tirely spiritual in character,
is devoted to
readings from Baha'i Sacred Writings; the
second part consists of general consultation
on the affairs of the Cause, at which time the
Local Spiritual Assembly reports its activi-
ties to the comm.unity, asks for suggestions
and consultation, and also delivers messages
received from the Guardian and the National
Assembly. The third part is the material
feast and social meeting of all the friends.
Only voting believers are invited to attend
the Nineteen Day Feasts, but young people
of less than twenty-one years of age, who
are declared believers, especially when mem-
bers of a Baha'i family, can also be present.
These meetings may be regarded as the
very heart of our Baha'i community life.
When properly conducted, and attended by a
Baha'i com'munity which fully appreciates
their importance, the Nineteen Day Feasts
serve to renew and deepen our spirit of
faith, increase our capacity for united action,
remove
misunderstandings
and
keep us
fully informed of all imvortant Baha'i ac-
SECTION ONE, SHEET 6
tivities, local, national and international
in
scope.-N.
S. A.
PROPER METHOD OF
CONSULTATION
Shoghi Effendi firmly believes that consul-
tation must be maintained between the N.
S. A. and the entire body of the ·believers, and
that such consultation, while the Convention
is not in session, can best be maintained
through the agency of the local Assemblies,
one of whose essential functions is to act as
intermediaries
between the local communi-
ties and their national representatives.
The
main pur,pose of the Nineteen Day Feasts is
to enable individual believers to offer any
suggestion to the local Assembly which in its
turn will pass it to the N. S. A. The local
Assembly is, therefore, the proper medium
through which local Baha'i communities can
communicate with the body of the national
representatives.-SH0GHI
EFFENDI.
THE TRUE CHARACTER
OF CONSULTATION
After careful consideration, the National
Spiritual Assembly voted to record the view
first, that anonymous communications are
not in conformity either with the svirit or the
letter of the Baha'i Teachings, and secondly,
that the general distribution of any letter,
whether anonymous or otherwise, by an in-
dividual believer to members of the Ameri-
can Baha'i communities
is an improper
method of Baha'i consultation.-N.
S. A.
Haifa, May 18, 1934, (Cablegram) "Urge
believers strictly adhere (to) National As-
sembly's instructions
regarding anonymous
letters." (signed) Shoghi.
BAHA'l ANNIVERSARIES
AND NINETEEN-DAY
FEASTS
The question is frequently raised whether
Nineteen-Day Feasts and Anniversary Cele-
brations noted on the Baha'i calendar should
be regarded as occasions limited to believers
or open to non-Baha'i guests.
The matter
was referred to Shoghi Effendi by the Na-
tional Assembly before the Convention, to
have the question answered for us all in such
a way as to reflect truest wisdom and knowl-
edge.
The Guardian's reply placed the de-
cision, for the present at least, in the mem-
bers of the National Assembly.
After consultation, the Assembly record-
ed its view that Baha'i Feasts and Anni-

BAHA't PROCEDURE
versaries should be regarded as opportuni-
ties for spiritual inspiration and fellowship
among the believers, and occasions to be
kept sacred for the Cause, but in recording
this attitude did not lay it down as a formal
ruling to bind the American friends.
Each
local Spiritual Assembly is free to conduct
these meetings in accordance with its own
conditions and needs.
It is evident, of course, that a religious
community needs certain occasions free from
influence by prevailing customs and opinions,
when its collective spirit and will may be
confirmed from the one acknowledged source
of guidance 1:1,nd power.
All Baha'is are in
need of such blessed hours shared with f el-
low believers, for the development of the in-
ner life within the community which can sur-
vive and serve the Cause only as it becomes
one in Baha'u'llah.
Appreciating
the value of the influence
released upon inquirers permitted to attend
such Baha'i gatherings, the National Assem-
bly nevertheless believes that the same effect
can be gained by occasional meetings of a
combined spiritual and social character, held
in addition to those marked upon the calen-
dar of the Cause.-N.
S. A.
Concerning the nature of the Nineteen
Day Feast. In the Aqdas, Baha'u'llah clearly
revealed the spiritual and social character of
this
institution.
Its administrative
sig-
nificance, however, has :been stressed by the
Guardian in direct response .to the growing
needs of the Baha'i community in this form-
ative period of the Baha'i era for better
training
in the principles and practice of
Baha'i administration.-SH0GHI
EFFENDI.
THE FEASTS AND
ANNIVERSARIES
The question has been raised whether the
statement made in the July, 1930, issue of
Baha'i News was intended to convey the
fact that the Guardian's instruction to the
American
National
Assembly meant that
each Local Assembly is free to decide for
itself whether non-believers may be ·invited
to the Nineteen-Day Feasts.
The answer is that only the Anniversaries,
not the Nineteen-Day Feasts, have been left
to the discretion of the believers.
If a Local
Assemjbly feels that the Cause will be served
by inviting non-believers to one of the An-
niversary meetings, it is free to do so, even
though the National Assembly pointed out
the ideal in the statement
published last
July.
The Nineteen-Day FeastB, however,
are for the recognized believers alone.
If
a non-believer be found present, naturally
SECTION ONE, SHEET 7
he will be treated with every courtesy and
consideration.-N.
S. A.
HOW TO PRESENT THE
MASTER'S WILL TO NEW
BELIEVERS
Concerning the best method of presenting
the Master's Will to the newcomers, Shoghi
Effendi is of the opinion that the N. S. A.
should first make some suitable extracts from
the Testament, and to send these to all the
local Assemblies for their use, so that there
may be full unity in circulating the provi-
sions of the Will among the new believers.
The problem of choosing such excerpts is left
entirely to the discretion of the N. S. A. The
main thing, as it appears to the Guardian, is
that the full station of the Bab, Baha'u'llah
and 'Abdu'l-Baha be clearly explained, and
that the origin, nature and working of the
Administrative Order of the Faith be clearly
stated. The full implications of such a recog-
nition are evidently beyond the comprehen-
sion of any new ·believer. Such a knowledge
can be acquired gradually, and only when
the essentials of the Faith have been clearly
recognized
and adequately
understood.-
SH0GHI EFFENDI.
MEMBERSHIP IN OTHER
ORGANIZATIONS
Formal affiliation with and acceptance of
membership
in organizations
whose pro-
grams or policies are not wholly reconcilable
with the Teachings is of course out of the
question.
In the case of the World Fellow-
ship of Faiths, however, Shoghi Effendi sees
no objection if the American National As-
sembly decides to appoint one or two Baha'i
representatives to address some of the public
meetings held under their auspices. To mere-
ly address such •gatherings on one or two oc-
casions on a subject which is in harmony
with the spirit of the Teachings does not
constitute acceptance by the Baha'i speaker
of the entire program of the Fellowship. We
should welcome and seize every opportunity
that presents itself, however modest it may
be, to give a wider publicity to the Cause,
to demonstrate its all-inclusiveness and lib-
eral attitude, its independence and purity,
without committing ourselves, whether by
word or deed, to programs or policies that
are not in strict conformity with the tenets
of the Faith.
Shoghi Effendi hopes that this
,principle will guide your distinguished As-
sembly in its dealings with various associa-
tions which will increasingly seek, in the
days to come, the support of Baha'i indi-

BAHA't PROCEDURE
viduals and Assemblies for the attainment of
their ends.-SH0GHI
EFFENDI.
CONTACT WITH SOCIAL
MOVEMENTS
It is surely
very necessary
that
the
friends should keep in touch with the mod-
ern social movements, but their main objec-
tive should be to draw more people to the
spirit and teachings of the Cause.
They
should learn from the experience of others
and not permit themselves to go ( off) at a
tangent, and finally be so absorbed in other
movements as to forget the Cause of God.-
SHOGHI EFFENDI.
CONCERNING MEMBER-
SHIP IN NON-BAHA't RE-
LIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS
The instruction written by Shoghi Effendi
concerning membership
in non-Baha'i
re-
ligious organizations, published in the July,
1935 number of Baha'i News, has brought
forth some interesting
and important com-
munications from local Spiritual Assemblies
and also from individual believers, to all of
which the National Spiritual Assembly has
given careful and sympathetic attention.
The National Assembly itself, on receiving
that instruction, made it the subject of ex-
tensive consultation, feeling exceedingly re-
sponsible for its own understanding
of the
Guardian's words and anxious to contribute
to the understanding of the friends.
In October, 1935, the Assembly sent in re-
ply to some of these communications a gen-
eral letter embodying its thoughts on the sub-
ject, and a copy of that letter was forwarded
to Shoghi Effendi for his ,approval and com-
ment.
His references to its contents, made
in letters addressed to the National Spiritual
Assembly on Nevember 29 and December 11,
1935, are appended to this statement.
Now that Shoghi Effendi's approval has
been received, the National Assembly feels
it desirable to publish, for the information
of all the American ,believers, the substance
of the October letter.
While so fundamental
an instruction
is
bound to raise different
questions corre-
sponding to the different conditions exist-
ing throughout
the Baha'i community, the
most important consideration is our collec-
tive need to grasp the essential principle un-
derlying the new instruction,
and our ca-
pacity to perceive that the position which
the Guardian wishes us to take in regard
to church membership is a necessary and
inevitable result of the steady development
SECTION ONE, SHEET 8
of the World Order of Baha'u'llah.
This essential principle is made clear when
we turn to Shoghi Effendi's further refer-
ence to the subject as published in Baha'i
News for October, 1935-words
written by
the Guardi,an's own hand.
In the light of these words, it seems fully
evident that the way to approach this in-
struction is in realizing the Faith of Baha'u'l-
lah as an ever-growing organism 1 destined to
become something new and greater than any
of the revealed religions of the past. Whereas
former Faiths inspired hearts and illumined
souls, they eventuated
in formal religions
with an ecclesiastical organization,
creeds,
ritua:s
and churches, while the Faith of
Baha'u'llah, likewise renewing man's spiri-
tual life, will gradually produce the institu-
tions of an ordered society, fulfilling not
merely the function of the churches of the
past but also the function of the civil state.
By this manifestation of the Divine Will in
a higher degree than in former ages, human-
ity will emerge from that immature civiliza-
tion in which church and state are separate
and competitive institutions, and partake of
a true civilization in which spiritual and so-
cial principles are at last reconciled as two
aspects of one and the same Truth.
No Baha'i can read the successive World
Order letters sent us by Shoghi Effendi with-
out perceiving that the Guardian, for many
years, has been preparing us to understand
and appreciate this fundamental pur,:pose and
mission of the Revelation of Baha'u'llah.
Even when the Master ascended, we were
for the most part still considering the Baha'i
Faith as though it were only the "return of
Christ" and failing to perceive the entirely
new and larger elements latent in the Teach-
ings of Baha'u'llah.
Thus, in the very first of the World Order
letters, written February 27th, 1929, Shoghi
Effendi said: "Who, I may ask, when view-
ing the international character of the Cause,
its far-flung
ramifications,
the increasing
complexity of its affairs, the diversity of its
adherents, and the state of confusion that
assails on every side the infant Faith of God,
can for a moment question the necessity of
some sort of administrative
machinery that
will insure, amid the storm and stress of a
struggling
civilization,
the unity of the
Faith, the preservation
of its identity, and
the protection of its interests?"
Although for five years the Guardian had
been setting forth the principles of Baha'i
Administration
in frequent letters, in 1927
he apparently felt it necessary to overcome
some doubts here and there as to the valid-
ity of the institutions the Master bequeathed
to the Baha'is in His Will and Testament.

BAHA't PROCEDURE
The series of World Order letters, however,
goes far beyond the .point of def ending and
explaining their validity as an essential ele-
ment in the Faith of Baha'u'llah-the
Guar-
dian vastly extended the horizon of our un-
derstanding by making it clear that the Ad-
ministrative
Order, in its full development,
is to be the social structure
of the future
civilization.
Thus, in that same letter quoted above, he
wrote: "Not only will the present-day Spiri-
tual Assemblies be styled differently in fu-
ture, but will be enabled also to add to their
present functions thos•e powers, duties, and
prerogatives necessitated by the recognition
of the Faith of Baha'u'llah, not merely as one
of the recognized religious systems of the
world, but as the State Religion of an inde-
pendent and Sovereign Power.
And as the
Baha'i Faith permeates the masses of the
peoples of East and West, and its truth is
embraced by the majority of the peoples of a
number of the Sovereign States of the world,
will the Universal House of Justice attain
the plentitude of its power, and exercise, as
the supreme organ of the Baha'i Common-
wealth, all the rights, the duties, and re-
sponsibilities incumbent upon the world's fu-
ture super-state."
This passage stands as the keystone in
the noble structure which Shoghi Effendi has
raised in his function as interpreter
of the
Teachings of Baha'u'llah.
The Master de-
veloped the Cause to the point where this
social Teaching, always existent in the Tab-
lets of Baha'u'llah, could be explained to the
believers and given its due significance as the
fulfilment of Baha'i evolution. As the Guar-
dian expressed it: "That Divine Civilization,
the establishment of which is the primary
mission of the Baha'i Faith."
(World Order
of Baha'u'llah, pages 3 and 4).
For us these words mean that a Baha'i is
not merely a member of ,a revealed Religion,
he is also a citizen in a World Order even
though that Order today is still in its infan-
cy and still obscured by the shadows thrown
by the institutions, habits and attitudes de-
rived from the past.
But since the aim and
end has been made known, our devotion and
loyalty must surely express itself, not in
clinging to views and thoughts emanating
from the past, but in pressing forward in
response to the needs of the new creation.
That true devotion, which consists in con-
scious knowledge of the "primary mission,"
and unified action to assist in bringing about
its complete triumph,
recognizes
that
a
Baha'i today must have singleness of mind
as of aim, without the division arising when
we stand with one foot in the Cause and one
foot in the world, attempting
to reconcile
SECTION ONE, SHEET 9
diverse elements which the Manifestation of
God Himself has declared to be irreconcila-
ble.
The principle underlying the Guardian's
instruction about membership in non-Baha'i
religious bodies has already been emphasized
by Shoghi Effendi in another connection-
the instruction about the non-political char-
acter of the Faith which he incorporated in
his letter entitled "The Golden Age of the
Cause of Baha'u'llah."
For example: "I feel
it, therefore, incumbent upon me to stress,
now that the time is ripe, the importance of
an instruction which, at the present stage of
the evolution of our Faith, should be increas-
ingly emphasized, irrespective of its appli-
cation to the East or to the West. And this
principle is no other than that which in-
volves the non-participation
by the adher-
ents of the Faith of Baha'u'llah, whether in
their individual capacities or collectively as
local or national Assemblies, in any form of
activity that might be interpreted, either di-
rectly or indirectly, as an interference in the .
political affairs of any particular
govern-
ment."
Again, when the question was raised as to
membership in certain non-Baha'i organiza-
tions not directly religious or political in
character, the Guardian replied: "Regarding
association with the World Fellowship of
Faiths and kindred .Societies, Shoghi Effendi
wishes to reaffirm and elucidate the general
principle that Baha'i elected representatives
as well as individuals should refrain from
any act or word that would imply a depar-
ture from the principles, whether spiritual,
social or
administrative,
established
by
Baha'u'llah.
Formal affiliation with and ac-
ceptance of membership
in organizations
whose programs or policies are not wholly
reconcilable with the Teachings is of course
out of the question." (Baha'i News, August,
1933.)
Thus, not once but repeatedly the Guar-
dian has upheld the vital principle underly-
ing every type
of relationship
between
Baha'is and other organizations,
namely,
that the Cause of Baha'u'llah is an ever-
growing organism, and as we begin to real-
ize its universality our responsibility is defi-
nitely established to cherish and def end that
universality from all compromise, all admix-
ture with worldly elements, whether emanat-
ing from our own habits rooted in the past
or from the deliberate attacks imposed by
enemies from without.
It will be noted that in the instruction pub-
lished in July, 1935, Baha'i News, the Guar-
dian made it clear that the principle in-
volved is not new and unexpected,
but
rather an application of an established prin-

BAHA't PROCEDURE
ciple to a new condition. "Concerning mem-
bership in non-Baha'i religious associations,
the Guardian wishes to reemphasize the gen-
eral principle already laid down in his com-
munications to your Assembly and also to the
individual
believers that
no Baha'i who
wishes to ,be a whole-hearted and sincere up-
holder of the distinguishing principles of the
Cause can accept full membership in any
non-Baha'i ecclesiastical organization.
. . .
For it is only too obvious that in most of its
fundamental assumptions the Cause of Ba-
ha'u'llah is completely at variance with out-
worn creeds, ceremonies and institutions ....
Iluri:pg the days of the Master the Cause was
still in a stage that made such an open and
sharp dissociation between it and other re-
ligious organizations,
and particularly
the
Muslim Faith, not only inadvisable but prac-
tically impossible to establish.
But since His
passing events throughout the Baha'i world,
and particularly in Egypt where the Muslim
religious courts have formally testified to the
independent character of the Faith, have de-
veloped to a point that have made such an
assertion of the independence of the Cause
not only highly desirable but absolutely es-
sential."
To turn now to the Guardian's words •pub-
lished in October Baha'i News : "The separa-
tion that has set in between the institutions
of the Baha'i Faith and the Islamic ecclesias-
tical organizations that oppose it . . . im-
poses upon every loyal upholder of the Cause
the obligation of refraining from any word
or action that might prejudice the position
which our enemies have . . . of their own
accord proclaimed and established. This his-
toric development, the beginnings of which
could neither be recognized nor even antici-
pated in the years immediately preceding
'Abdu'l-Baha's passing, may be said to have
signalized the Formative Period of our Faith
and to have paved the way for the consoli-
dation of its administrative
order. . . .
Though our Cause unreservedly recognizes
the Divine origin of all the religions that
preceded it and upholds the spiritual truths
which lie at their very core and are common
to them all, its institutions, whether adminis-
trative, religious or. humanitarian,
must if
their distinctive character
is to be main-
tained and recognized, be increasingly di-
vorced from the outworn creeds, the mean-
ingless ceremonials and man-made institu-
tions with which these religions are at pres-
ent identified.
Our adversaries in the East
have initiated the struggle.
Our future op-
ponents in the West will, in their turn, arise
and carry it a stage further.
Ours is the
duty, in anticipation of this inevitable con-
test, to uphold unequivocally and with un-
SECTION ONE, SHEET 10
divided loyalty the integrity of our Faith
and demonstrate
the distinguishing
fea-
tures of its divinely appointed institutions."
Nothing could be clearer or more empha-
tic. These words, asserting again the essen-
tial universality of the Cause, likewise re-
peat and renew the warning that the organ-
ized religions, even in America, will become
bitterly hostile to the Faith of Baha'u'llah,
.denounce and oppose it, and seek its destruc-
tion in vain effort to maintain their own
"outworn creeds" and material power.
In-
formed of this inevitable development, can
a Baha'i any longer desire to retain a con-
nection which, however liberal and pleasing
it now seems, is a connection with a poten-
tial foe of the Cause of God? The Guardian's
instruction signifies that the time has come
when all American believers must become
fully conscious of the implications of such
connections, and carry out their loyalty to its
logical conclusion.
Shoghi Effendi's latest words are not
merely an approval of the foregoing state-
ment, but a most helpful elucidation of some
of the problems which arise when the friends
turn to their local Assemblies for specific ad-
vice under various special circumstances.
"The explanatory statement in connection
with membership in non-Baha'i religious or-
ganizations is admirably conceived, convinc-
ing and in full conformity with the princi-
ples underlying and implied in the unfolding
world order of Baha'u'llah." (November 29,
1933.)
"The Guardian has carefully read the copy
of the statement you had recently prepared
concerning non-membership
in non-Baha'i
religious organizations,
and is pleased to
realize that your comments and explanations
are in full conformity with his views on the
subject.
He hopes that your letter will serve
to clarify this issue in the minds of all the
believers, and to further convince them of its
vital character and importance in the pres-
ent stage of the evolution of the Cause.
" ... In this case*, as also in that of suffer-
ing believers, the Assemblies, whether local
or national, should act tactfully, patiently
and in a friendly and kindly spirit. Knowing
how painful and dapgerous it is for such be-
lievers to repudiate their former allegiances
and friendships,
they should try to grad-
ually persuade them of the wisdom and
necessity of such an action, and instead of
thrusting
upon them a new principle, to
make them accept it inwardly, and out of
pure conviction and desire. Too severe and
* A special
case involving
an
aged
believer,
afflicted with illness, for whom severance of church
relations might have been too great a shock.

BAHA't PROCEDURE
immediate action in such cases is not only
fruitless but actually harmful.
It alienates
people instead of winning them to the Cause.
"The other point concerns the advisability
of contributing to a church. In this case also
the friends must realize that contributions
to a church, especially when not regular, do
not necessarily entail affiliation.
The be-
lievers can make such offerings, occasionally,
and provided they are certain that while do-
ing so they are not connected as members of
any church.
There should be no confusion
between the terms affiliation and association.
While affiliation with ecclesiastical organiza-
tions is not permissible, association with
them should not only be tolerated but even
encouraged. There is no better way to dem-
onstrate the universality of the Cause than
this.
Baha'u'llah, indeed, urges His follow-
ers to consort with all religions and nations
with utmost friendliness and love. This con-
stitutes the very spirit of His message to
mankind."
(December 11, 1935.)
The National Spiritual Assembly trusts
that the subject will receive the attention of
local Assemblies and communities, and that
in the light of the foregoing explanations
the friends will find unity and agreement in
applying the instruction to whatever situa-
tions may arise.
In teaching n~w believers
let us lay a proper foundation so that their
obedience will be voluntary and assured from
the beginning of their enrollment as Baha'is.
In our attitude toward the older believers
who are affected by the instruction· let us act
with the patience and kindliness the Guar-
dian has urged.-N.
S. A.
BAHA'iS AND WAR*
One of the chief responsibilities of Baha'is
in this transitional era is to grasp the prin-
ciple upon which rests their loyalty to the
Faith of Baha'u'llah in relation to their duty
toward their civil government.
This prob-
lem arises in its most difficult form in con-
nection with our individual and collective at-
titude toward war.
Nothing could be more powerful than the
Baha'i teachings on the subject of Peace.
Not only does Baha'u'llah confirm the teach-
ings of all former Manifestations which up-
hold amity and fellowship between indi-
vidual human beings, and the supremacy of
love as the end and aim of mutual inter-
course and association, but He likewise ex-
* "The Guardian has carefully read the N. S. A.'s
statement on the Baha'i attitude toward war, and
approves of its circulation among the believers.''-
Shoghi Effendi, through his secretary, Haifa, Jan-
uary 10, 1936.
SECTION ONE, SHEET 11
tends the divine law of Peace to governments
and rulers, declaring to them that they are
called upon to establish Peace and Justice
upon earth, and uproot forever the dire ca-
lamity of international war.
Despite His Revelation, a most agonizing
and excruciating conflict raged in Europe
for four years, and since that war many oth-
er wars and revolutions have dyed the earth,
while at present the heaven of human hope
is black with the approach of a final world-
shaking catastrophe.
What wonder that faithful Baha'is, abhor-
ing and detesting war as insane repudiation
of divine law, as destroyer of life and ruin
of civilization, should now, in these fateful
days, ponder how they may save their loved
ones from the calamity of the battlefield, and
how they may contribute their utmost to any
and every effort aimed at the attainment of
universal Peace?
Conscious of these •heart-stirrings,
and
mindful of its responsibility
toward
all
American believers, and particularly
that
radiant youth which would first of all be
sacrificed in the event of a declaration of
war by the government, the National Spiri-
tual Assembly wishes to express it.s view
upon the matter, in the hope that the result
of its study of the Teachings and of the
Guardian's explanations will assist in bring-
ing a unity of opinion and a clarification of
thought among the friends.
Concerning the duty of Baha'is to their
government, we have these words, written
by Shoghi Effendi on January 1, 1929 (see
"Baha'i Administration," page 152) : "To all
these (i.e., restrictive measures of the Soviet
regime) the followers of the Faith of Ba-
ha'u'llah . have with feelings of burning
agony and heroic fortitude unanimously and
unreservedly submitted, ever mindful of the
guiding principle of Baha'i conduct that in
connection with their administrative activi-
ties, no matter how greviously interference
with them might affect the course of the ex-
tension of the Movement, and the suspension
of which does not constitute in itself a de-
parture from the principle of loyalty to their
Faith, the considered judgment and authori-
tative decrees issued by their responsible rul-
ers must, if they be faithful to Baha'u'llah's
and 'Abdu'l-Baha's express injunctions, be
thoroughly respected and loyally obeyed. In
matters, however, that vitally affect the in-
tegrity and honor of the Faith of Baha'u'llah,
and are tantamount to a recantation of their
faith and repudiation of their innermost be-
lief, they are convinced, and are unhesitat-
ing prepared to vindicate by their life-blood
the sincerity of their conviction, that no
power on earth, neither the arts of the most

BAHA'f PROCEDURE
insidious adversary nor the bloody weapons
of the most tyrannical oppressor, can ever
succeed in extorting fro:m them a word or
deed that might tend to stifle the voice of
their conscience or tarnish
the purity of
their faith."
In view of the fact that early Christians
were persecuted because they refused to ren-
der military service, the question might be
raised whether the above statement means
that the Guardian includes refusal to bear
arms as one of those matters which "vitally
affect the integrity and honor of the Faith
...
and are tantamount to a recantation of
their faith and repudiation of their inner-
most belief"-a
question the more important
in that the early Christians preferred perse-
cution to military service.
The answer to this question is that the
Guardian instructs us that the obligation to
render military duty ·placed by governments
upon their citizens is a form of loyalty to
one's government which the Baha'i must ac-
cept, but that the believers can, through their
National
Assembly, seek exemption from
active army duty provided their government
recognizes the right of members of religious
bodies making peace a matter of conscience
to serve in some non-combatant service rath-
er than as part of the armed force.
The National Spiritual Assembly has in-
vestigated carefully this aspect of the situa-
tion, and has found that, whereas the gov-
ernment of the United States did, in the
last war, provide exemption from military
duty on religious grounds, nevertheless this
exemption was part of the Statutes bearing
directly upon that war, and with the cessa-
tion of hostilities the exemption lapsed.
In
other words, there is today no basis on which
any Baha'i may ,be exempted from military
duty in a possible future conflict. The Na-
tional Assembly,
consequently,
cannot at
present make any petition for exemption of
Baha'is from war service, for such petitions
must be filed with reference to some specific
Act or Statute under which exemption can
be granted. The Assembly understands that,
in the event of war, there will be some kind
of provision for exemption enacted, but as
far as Baha'is are concerned, no steps can
be taken until this government declares it-
self in a state of war.
This explanation, it is hoped, will satisfy
those who for some years have been urging
that
protection
be secured for American
Baha'i youth.
On the other hand it must be pointed out
that it is no part of our teaching program
to attract young people to the Cause merely
in order to take advantage of any exemption
that may later on be officially obtained for
SECTION ONE, SHEET 12
duly enrolled Baha'is.
The only justifiable
reason for joining this Faith is because one
realizes that it is a divine Cause and is ready
and willing to accept whatever may befall
a believer on the path of devotion.
The
persecutions which have been inflicted upon
Baha'is so frequently make it clear that the
path of devotion is one of sacrifice and not
of ease or special privilege.
Another question encountered here and
there among believers is what can Baha'i8 do
to work for Peace?
Outside the Cause we
see many organizations with peace programs,
and believers occasionally feel that it is their
duty to join such movements and thereby
work for a vital Baha'i principle.
It is the view of the National Spiritual
Assembly that activity in and for the Cause
itself is the supreme service to world peace.
The Baha'i community of the world is the
true example of Peace.
The Baha'i princi-
ples are the only ones upon which Peace can
be established.
Therefore, by striving to
enlarge the number of declared believers,
and broadcasting the Teachings of Baha'u'l-
lah, we are doing the utmost to rid human-
ity of the scourge of war.
Of what use to
spend time and money upon incomplete hu-
man programs when we have the universal
program of the Manifestation of God? The
firm union of the Baha'is in active devotion
to the advancement of their own Faith~this
is our service to Peace, as it is our service to
all other human needs-economic
justice,
race amity, religious unity, etc.
Let non-
believers agitate for disarmament
and cir-
culate petitions for this and that pacifist
aim-a
Baha'i truly alive in this Faith will
surely prefer to base his activities upon the
foundation laid by Baha'u'llah, waH~ the path
which the Master trod all His days, and heed
the appeals which the Guardian has given
us to initiate a new era in the public teach-
ing of the Message.-N.
S. A.
COLLECTIVE ACTION BY
LEAGUE OF NATIONS
He feels that the followers of Baha'u'llah
are under the obligation of obeying the
orders of their respective governments when-
ever these are acting as participants in any
collective action directed by the League of
N ations.-SH0GHI
EFFENDI.
(This instruc-
tion came in answer to a letter inquiring
whether a Canadian believer should feel a
moral obligation to accept military service
in the event that, under its obligation to the
League, his government participated
with
other governments in military action initiat-
ed by the League).

BAHA'I PROCEDURE
insidious adversary nor the bloody weapons
of the most tyrannical oppressor, can ever
succeed in extorting from them a word or
deed that might tend to stifle the voice of
their conscience or tarnish
the purity of
their faith."
In view of the fact that early Christians
were persecuted because they refused to ren-
der military service, the question might be
raised whether the above statement means
that the Guardian includes refusal to bear
arms as one of those matters which "vitally
affect the integrity and honor of the Faith
...
and are tantamount'to
a recantation of
their faith and repudiation of their inner-
most belief"-a: question the more important
in that the early Christians preferred perse-
cution to military service.
The answer to this question is that the
Guardian instructs us that the obligation to
render military duty ·placed by governments
upon their citizens is a form of loyalty to
one's government which the Baha'i must ac-
cept, but that the believers can, through their
National
Assembly, seek exemption from
active army duty provided their government
recognizes the right of members of religious
bodies making peace a matter of conscience
to serve in some non-combatant service rath-
er than as part of the armed force.
The National Spiritual Assembly has in-
vestigated carefully this aspect of the situa-
tion, and has found that, whereas the gov-
ernment of the United States did, in the
last war, provide exemption from military
duty on religious grounds, nevertheless this
exemption was part of the Statutes bearing
directly upon that war, and with the cessa-
tion of hostilities the exemption lapsed.
In
other words, there is today no basis on which
any Baha'i may •be exempted from military
duty in a possible future conflict.
The Na-
tional Assembly, consequently,
cannot at
present make any petition for exemption of
Baha'is from war service, for such petitions
must be filed with reference to some specific
Act or Statute under which exemption can
be granted. The Assembly understands that,
in the event of war, there will be some kind
of provision for exemption enacted, but as
far as Baha'is are concerned, no steps can
be taken until this government declares it-
self in a state of war.
This explanation, it is hoped, will satisfy
those who for some years have been urging
that
protection
be secured for American
Baha'i youth.
On the other hand it must be pointed out
that it is no part of our teaching program
to attract young people to the Cause merely
in order to take advantage of any exemption
that may later on be officially obtained for
SECTION ONE, SHEET 12
duly enrolled Baha'is.
The only justifiable
reason for joining this Faith is because one
realizes that it is a divine Cause and is ready
and willing to accept whatever may befall
a believer on the path of devotion.
The
persecutions which have been inflicted upon
Baha'is so frequently make it clear that the
path of devotion is one of sacrifice and not
of ease or special privilege.
Another question encountered here and
there among believers is what can Baha'i~ do
to work for Peace?
Outside the Cause we
see many organizations with peace programs,
and believers occasionally feel that it is their
duty to join such movements and thereby
work for a vital Baha'i principle.
It is the view of the National Spiritual
Assembly that activity in and for the Cause
itself is the supreme service to world peace.
The Baha'i community of the world is the
true example of Peace.
The Baha'i princi-
ples are the only ones upon which Peace can
be established.
Therefore, by striving to
enlarge the number of declared believers,
and broadcasting the Teachings of Baha'u'l-
lah, we are doing the utmost to rid human-
ity of the scourge of war.
Of what use to
spend time and money upon incomplete hu-
man programs when we have the universal
program of the Manifestation of God? The
firm union of the Baha'is in active devotion
to the advancement of their own Faith-this
is our service to Peace, as it is our service to
all other human needs-economic
justice,
race amity, religious unity, etc.
Let non-
believers agitate for disarmament
and cir-
culate petitions for this and that pacifist
aim-a
Baha'i truly alive in this Faith will
surely prefer to base his activities upon the
foundation laid by Baha'u'llah, walk the path
which the Master trod all His days, and heed
the appeals which the Guardian has given
us to initiate a new era in the public teach-
ing of the Message.-N.
S. A.
COLLECTIVE ACTION BY
• LEAGUE OF NATIONS
He feels that the followers of Baha'u'llah
are under the obligation of obeying the
orders of their respective governments when-
ever these are acting as participants in any
collective action directed by the League of
N ations.-SH0GHI
EFFENDI.
(This instruc-
tion came in answer to a letter inquiring
whether a Canadian •believer should feel a
moral obligation to accept military service
in the event that, under its obligation to the
League, his government participated
with
other governments in military action initiat-
ed by the League).

BAHA't PROCEDURE
In a letter dated March 16, 1933, the Guar-
dian sent these further details :
"As regards the non-political character of
the Baha'i Faith, Shoghi Effendi feels that
there is no contradiction whatsoever between
the Tablet (to Thornton Chase, referred to
above) and the reservations to which he has
referred.
The Master surely never desired
the friends to use their influence towards the
realization and promotion of policies con-
trary to any of the principles of the Faith.
The friends may vote, if they can do it, with-
out identifying themselves with one party or
another.
To enter the arena of party ·poli-
tics is surely detrimental to the best inter-
ests of the Faith and will harm the Cause.
It remains for the individuals to so use their
right to vote as to keep aloof from party poli-
tics, and always bear in mind that they are
voting on the merits of the individual, rather
than because he belongs to one party or an-
other.
The matter must be made perfectly
clear to the individuals, who will be left free
to exercise their discretion and judgment.
But if a certain person does enter into party
politics and labors for the ascendency of one
party over another, and continues to do it
against the expressed appeals and warnings
of the Assembly, then the Assembly has the
right to refuse him the right to vote in
Baha'i elections."-N.
S. A.
ON CORRESPONDENCE
WITH INDIVIDUAL
BELIEVERS
At the meeting held on November 12 and
13, 1932, the National Spiritual Assembly
voted to adopt the policy that general Baha'i
matters must first be presented by individual
believers to their Local Spiritual Assembly,
and the National Assembly will respond to
all such matters presented to it by a Local
Assembly, it being understood that communi-
cations received from individual believers on
personal matters will be answered direct. It
was the sense of the meeting that this ac-
tion should be brought to the attention of all
believers in Baha'i News.
The purpose of this vote is to discourage
individual believers from undertaking
cor-
respondence with the National Assembly on
matters related to the Cause in general and
not confined to the individual's personal af-
fairs.
In the case of matters concerning the
Cause as a whole, if individuals wish to seek
information or make suggestions, they are
requested to do so through their Local As-
sembly. In the case of personal affairs, the
National Assembly will be happy to carry
on correspondence with individual believers
to the extent of its capacity.-N.
S. A.
SECTION ONE, SHEET 14
PRESERVING THE
ORGANIC UNITY
The believers, and particularly those who
have not had sufficient e~perience in teach-
ing, should be very careful in the way they
present the teachings of the Cause. Sincer-
ity, devotion and faith are not the sole con-
ditions of successful teaching.
Tactfulness,
extreme caution and wisdom are equally im-
portant.
We should not be in a hurry when
we announce the message to the public and
we should be careful to present the teach-
ings in their entirety and not to alter them
for the sake of others.
Allegiance to the
Faith cannot be partial and half-hearted.
Either we should accept the Cause without
any qualification whatever, or cease calling
ourselves Baha'is.
The new believers should
be made to realize that it is not sufficient for
them to accept some aspects of the teachings
and reject those which cannot suit their men-
tality in order to • become fully recognized
and active followers of the Faith.
In this
way all sorts of misunderstandings will van-
ish and the organic unity of the Cause will
be preserved.-SHOGHI EFFENDI.
THE VOTING RIGHT
I feel I must reaffirm the vital importance
and necessity of the right of voting-a
sacred
responsibility of which no adult recognized
believer should be deprived, un]ess he is as-
sociated with a community that has not as
yet been in a position to establish a local
Assembly.
This distinguishing right which
the believer possesses, however, does not
carry with it nor does it imply an obligation
to cast his vote, if he feels that the circum-
stances under which he lives do not justify
or allow him to exercise that right intelli-
gently and with understanding.
This is a
matter which should be left to the individual
to decide himself according to his own con-
science and discretion.-SHOGHI EFFENDI.
REGISTRATION OF
ISOLATED BELIEVERS
A general letter has recently been issued
to an Baha'is who have been listed as "iso-
lated believers."
This letter requested all
such believers to fill out and return a regis-
tration card; thus permitting such believers
to record their adherence to the Baha'i Faith
and giving the National Assembly a true and
correct mailing list.
Copies of Baha'i News and other commu-
nications will in future ibe sent only to those
isolated believers who register themselves
with the National Assembly.

BAHA't PROCEDURE
Any isolated believer who fails to receive
a registration card is requested to notify the
National Office.-N. S. A.
GROUP CORRESPONDENT
All local groups are requested to elect a
Correspondent once a year, a.nd preferably
on April 21. The function of the Corres-
pondent is to receive Baha'i News and other
general
communications
intended
for all
members of the group, and also to serve as
link between the group and the Teaching
Committee,
Publishing
Committee,
etc.-
N. S.A.
RELATION OF INDIVID-
UAL TO COMMUNITY
I fully approve and whole-heartedly and
unreservedly uphold the principle to which
you refer that ,personalities should not be
made centers around which the community
may revolve but that they should be subordi-
nated under all conditions and however great
their merits to the properly constituted As-
semblies.
You and your co-workers can
never overestimate
or overemphasize this
cardinal principle of Baha'i Administ:r~ation.
-SHOGHI
EFFENDI.
ASSEMBLIES, NOT INDI-
VIDUALS, CONSTITUTE
THE BEDROCK
Regarding the principle that the .Cause
must not be allowed to center around a~y
Baha'i personality, the Guardian wishes to
make it clear that it was never intended that
well qualified individual teachers should not
receive from local Assemblies every encour-
agement and facilities to address the pub-
lic.
What the Guardian meant was that
the personality and popularity
of such a
speaker should never be allowed to eclipse
the authority, or detract from the influence
of the body of the elected representatives in
every local community.
Such an individual
should not only seek the approval, advice and
assistance of the body that represents the
Cause in his locality, but should strive to
attribute any credit ,he may obtain to the col-
lective wisdom and capacity of the Assembly
under whose jurisdiction
he performs his
services.
Assemblies and not individuals
constitute the bedrock on which the Admin-
istration is built.
Everything else must be
subordinated to, and be made to serve and
advance the best interests of, these elected
custodians and promoters of the Laws of
Baha'u'llah.-SHOGHI
EFFENDI.
SECTION ONE, SHEET 15
FIRST APPROACH THE
LOCAL, THEN THE
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY
To facilitate matters and avoid misunder-
standings he prefers to refer you and the
individual friends to them (the National As-
sembly).
He is sure that you will obtain full
satisfaction by putting the question to them.
The purpose of the Guardian in this is not
to avoid the issue but only to facilitate mat-
ters and eliminate misunderstandings.
In all
such matters the friends should first ap-
proach the Local, then the National Assem-
bly and only in case they can obtain no sat-
isfaction should they approach the Guardian
on these matters.
This way many difficul-
ties will be avoided.-SH0GHI EFFENDI.
TEACHING AND
ADMINISTRATION
Regarding
the statement
made by the
Guardian in his letter . . . concerning the
fact that believers can serve both as teachers
and administrators.
Shoghi Effendi would
approve your Assembly making this fact
known to all the friends.
For although it is
essential for the believers to maintain always
a clear distinction between teaching and ad-
ministrative duties and functions, yet they
should be careful not to be led to think that
these two types of Baha'i activity are mu-
tually exclusive in their nature, and as such
cannot be exercised by one and the same per-
son. As a matter of fact, the friends should
be encouraged to serve in both the teaching
and the administrative
fields of Baha'i ser-
vice. But as there are always some who are
more specially gifted along one of these two
lines of activity it would seem more desirable
that they should concentrate their efforts in
acquiring the full training for that type of
work for which they are best suited by na-
ture.
Such a specialization has the advan-
tage of saving time, and of leading to. great-
er efficiency, particularly at this early stage
of our development. The great danger, how-
ever, lies in that by so doing the friends may
tend to develop a sort of class consciousness
which is fundamentally contrary to ,both the
spirit and actual teachings of the Faith. . It
is precisely in order to overcome such a dan-
ger that the Guardian thinks it advisable
that the friends should be encouraged to
serve from time to time in both the teaching
and the administrative
spheres of Baha;i
work, but only whenever they feel fit to do
so.-SH0GHI EFFENDI.

BAHA't PROCEDURE
STATUS OF TRAVELING
TEACHERS
Concerning the activities
of traveling
teachers, the National Assembly has voted to
give new emphasis to the administrative
principle under which a traveling teacher is
not only subject to the jurisdiction of the lo-
cal Assembly in each city, but is e:x;pected to
be concerned only with teaching activities
and not to intervene in local problems un-
less specifically requested by the local Assein-
bly to assist in some local situation where
the believer may render good service, under
the Assembly's direction.-N.
S. A.
FREEDOM OF THE INDI-
VIDUAL TO EXPRESS HIS
OWN VIEWS
As regards the statement of our own views
and explanations of the teachings : Shoghi
Effendi believes that we should not restrict
the liberty of the individual to express his
own views so long as he makes it clear that
these views are his own. In fact, such ex-
planations are often helpful and are condu-
cive to a better understanding of the teach-
ings.
God has given man a rational power
to be used and not killed.
This does not, however, mean that the ab-
solute authority does not remain in the re-
vealed Words.
We should try and keep as
near to the authority as we can and show
that we are faithful to it by quoting from
the Words of Baha'u'llah in establishing our
points.
To discard the authority of the re-
vealed Words is heretic and to suppress com-
pletely individual interpretation
of those
Words is also bad. We should try to strike
a happy medium between these two ex-
tremes.-SHOGHI EFFENDI.
CHIEF DUTY OF EVERY
BAHA't
Concerning the abolition of the institu-
tion of paid national teachers, the Guardian
wishes to reaffirm his former statements on
this matter, and to stress once more that
great care be taken to avoid the difficulties
and the misunderstandings which in former
days had caused so much trouble among the
friends.
The main point to be emphasized
in this connection is that of making the
teachings of the Cause not the work of a
limited group but the chief duty and respon-
sibility of every Baha'i.
This is why -no
salaried teachers should any longer exist.
But occasionally to defray the expenses of a
teaching trip of a certain Baha'i, particular-
SECTION ONE, SHEET 16
ly when it is done spontaneously, can cause
no harm to the Cause. Such an action, pro-
vided it is done with care and only when cir-
cumstances make it necessary, constitutes no
violation of the principle already referred to.
The danger in all activities of this nature is
to give the impression that the teaching of
the Cause is an institution, depending on the
support of paid teachers.
Those who will-
ingly and with utmost detachment arise to
promote the Cause should, undoubtedly, be
helped in every way. But they have no claim
whatever on the financial help which some
friends may freely choose to extend to them.
-SHOGHI
EFFENDI.
CONCERNING INDIVID-
UAL TEACHING
Concerning individual teaching, Shoghi
Effendi would urge every Baha'i who feels
the urge to exercise his right of teaching un-
officially the Cause, to keep in close touch
with the Local Spiritual Assembly of the lo-
cality in which he is working.
The Local
Spiritual Assembly, while reserving for it-
self the right to control such activities on
the part of individual Baha'is, should do its
utmost to encourage such teachers and to
put at their disposal whatever facilities they
would need in such circumstances.
Should
any differences arise, the National Spiritual
Assembly would naturally have to intervene
and adjust matters.-SHOGHI
EFFENDI.
TEACHING THROUGH
DRAMA AND ART
We have to wait only a few years to see
how the spirit breathed by Baha'u'llah will
find expression in the work of the artists.
What you and some other Baha'is are at-
tempting, are only faint rays that precede
the effulgent light of a glorious morn. We
cannot yet estimate the part the Cause is
destined to play in the life of society. We
have to give it time. The material this spirit
~as ~o mould is too crude and unworthy, but
1t will at last give way and the Cause of
Baha'u'llah will reveal itself in its full splen-
dor.-SHOGHI EFFENDI.
TEACHING MATERIAL TO
BE APPROVED
All literature, charts and other material
used in Baha'i teaching should be confined
to that which has been approved by the Re-
viewing Committee or has the recorded sanc-
tion of the N. S. A.-N.
S. A.

BAHA'I PROCEDURE
CREDENTIALS FOR
TRAVELING TEACHERS
Teachers visiting new areas should always
have a proper letter of credentials showing
that the teacher has authority to hold Baha'i
meetings.-N.
S. A.
REFERENCE TO
POLITICAL FIGURES
The Guardian wishes me to draw the at-
tention of the friends through you that they
should be very careful in their public ad-
dresses not to mention any political figures-
either side with them or denounce them. This
is the first thing to bear in mind. Otherwise
they will involve the friends in political mat-
ters, which is infinitely dangerous to the
Cause.-SH0GHI
EFFENDI
PUBLIC CONTACTS
To approach such well-1rnown and impor-
tant persons is always an extremely delicate
matter, since it requires a good deal of wis-
dom, courage and ability.
But those friends
who really feel the urge to do so, and possess
the necessary qualifications, should cultivate
such friendships which, if properly done, can
be of an immense benefit to the Cause.
In
any case, however, the assistance and help
of either the local or the National Assembly
is not only useful but necessary, if important
contacts of this sort are to be fruitful and
prom1smg.
The principle of consultation,
which constitutes one of the basic l,aws of
the Administration,
should be applied to all
Baha'i activities which affect the collective
interests of the Faith, for it is through co-
operation
and
continued
exchange
of
thoughts and views that the Cause can best
safeguard
and foster its interests.
Indi-
vidual initiative,
personal
ability and re-
sourcefulness, though indispensable are, un-
less supported and enriched by the oollective
experience and wisdom of the group, utterly
incapable of achieving such a tremendous
task.-SH0GHI
EFFENDI.
To make this comment clearer it should
be explained that the believer who received
the Guardian's letter had written a personal
letter to a well known scientist, enclosing
Baha'i literature.
In connection with the Guardian's empha-
sis on consultation,
it is reported to the
American believers that the National Spirit-
ual Assembly has voted that Baha'is should
seek to make contact with Federal and State
officials only through the Na.tional Assem-
bly, and refrain from personal activities in-
SECTION ONE, SHEET 17
volving the Cause with officers of the gov-
ernment.
In the case of municipal officials,
contact should be made only through the Lo-
cal Assembly.-N.
S. A.
SETTLEMENT OF CIVIL
DISPUTES
The Guardian wishes to emphasize the im-
portance of avoiding reference to civil courts
of cases of dispute between believers, even
in non-Baha'i issues.
It is the Assembly's
function to endeavor to settle amicably such
disputes, both in order to safeguard the fair
name and prestige of the Cause, and to ac-
quire the necessary experience for foe ex-
tension of its functions
in the future.-
SHOGHI
EFFENDI.
FORM OF BEQ·UEST
The following form has been prepared by
the Legal Committee for the use of believers
who plan to include a bequest or legacy in
their Will. It is recommended that believers
consult an attorney in using this form, to be
assured that it should be adapted to meet
the needs and requirements of the laws of
the State in whkh they reside.
I hereby give and devise the sum of
$. . . . . . . . . . . . . . to the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Baha'is of the United States
and Canada, that is to say, to the several
persons who at the time of my death, and
from time to time thereafter,
shall consti-
tute the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Baha'is of the United States and Canada ac-
cording to the government and regulations
of said Religious Body as existing at the
time of my death and from time to time
thereafter
amended, to be used in accord-
ance with the functions vested in said As-
sembly for the furtherance
of the Faith of
Baha'u'llah.-N.
S. A.
DISTINCTION BETWEEN
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE
TEACHING
The National Assembly makes a distinc-
tion between public and non-public teach-
ing activities,
attempting
no jurisdiction
over non-public teaching activities outside
the jurisdiction of local Assemblies, but in
the case of public teaching activities, the
National Spiritual Assembly lays down the
controlling regulations that in any area out-
side the jurisdiction
of local Assemblies,
teachers are not to hold public Baha'i meet-
ings involving the name of the Cause with-

BAHA'I PROCEDURE
out the recognition and approval of the Re-
gional Committee, or of the National Teach-
ing Committee, depending upon the area of
jurisdiction, and all such public meetings are
to be held under the sponsorship of the
proper Teaching Committee.-N.
S. A.
USE OF THE TERM
"BAHA't"
Use of the term "Baha'i" as applied to
music, painting, poetry and other art forms.
At the present time, there exists no stand-
ard by which music, painting, poetry and
other art forms can be described as "Baha'i",
as distinguished from other forms of art.
Such art forms may deal with Baha'i sub-
jects, but their excellence as art can be
judged only by existing standards which can
in no sense of the word be described as
"Baha'i".
It, therefore,
at present seems
wise that music, paintings, poetry and other
art products should not be described as Ba-
ha'i music, Baha'i poetry, etc.
Hymns, for
instance, should not he published as "Baha'i
Hymns", but should, perhaps, be described as
"Hymns-for
use in Baha'i meetings."
It is, of course, desirable that any art
products which deal with Baha'i subjects and
which are published or exhibited to the gen-
eral public, shall not be of so low a standard
of artistic merit as to reflect discredit, or
bring ridicule, upon the Baha'i Cause.-N.
S. A.
TO DISCRIMINATE IN THE
USE OF THE TERM
"BAHA't"
The following ruling has been adopted by
the N. S. A.: That the collective activities of
Baha'is, with which the name Baha'i is asso-
ciated, ought not to be extended to activities
of non-Baha'is which cannot be controlled by
the believers through their institutions and
under the recognized principles of Baha'i ad-
ministration;
and further that the public so-
licitation of funds under Baha'i auspices, ir-
respective of the worthiness of the object,
may give a wrong impression of the nature
of the Cause. When believers wish to show
a special respect to any non-believer or non-
Baha'i organization, they should do so as
individuals without involving the name of
the Cause.-N.
S. A.
BOOKS FINANCED BY
THE AUTHOR
Voted to approve the recommendation
SECTION ONE, SHEET 18
made by the Publishing Committee, that
when books are financed by a Baha'i author
with the idea that the Publishing Committee
shall distribute the book, the author is to
turn over to the Publishing Committee the
cost of printing the work, so that the Com-
mittee can supervise the printing.
This rul-
ing does not mean that a Baha'i author can-
not
publish
approved
Baha'i
literature
through a recognized general publisher. Its
aim is to prevent confusion between authors
and the Publishing Committee, and enable
the Committee to maintain proper standards
of printing and binding, and assure accuravy
in the text.-N.
S. A.
APPLICATION OF
ECONOMIC TEACHINGS
With regard to your wish for reorganiz-
ing your business along Baha'i lines, Shoghi
Effendi deeply appreciates the spirit that has
permitted you to make such a suggestion.
But he feels nevertheless that the time has
not yet come for any believer to bring about
such a fundamental change in the economic
structure of our society, however restricted
may be the field for such an experiment. The
economic teachings of the Cause, though well
known in their main outline, have not as yet
been sufficiently elaborated and systematized
to allow anyone to make an emct and thor-
ough application of them even on a restrict-
ed scale.-SHOGHI EFFENDI.
GENERAL INTERESTS
TAKE PRECEDENCE
As to material sacrifices toward the wel-
fare of the Cause, he wishes you to under-
stand that the general interests of the Cause
take precedence over the interests of the par-
ticular individuals.
For instance, contribu-
tions to the welfare of individuals are second-
ary to contributions to the National and Lo-
cal Funds and that of the Temple.-SHOGHI
EFFENDI.
THE IMPORTANCE OF
BAHA't CREDENTIALS
The N. S. A. regrets to report that one of
the American believers has been grossly de-
ceived by a person who represented himself
as having a reference from a Baha'i in an-
other city.
As was pointed out several years ago, such
cases will increase in future, as the Baha'i
community grows in strength and resources,
unless the believers uphold the rule that all
travelers claiming to be Baha'is must have

BAHA'i PROCEDURE
proper credentials, in writing, from their
local Assembly. Traveling Baha'is not mem-
bers of a local community, but recorded as
isolated believers, can obtain ,a letter from
the N. S. A.
Another principle given. us for our protec-
tion is that application for financial assist-
ance made in the name of the Cause by indi-
viduals personally unknown can be referred
to the Spiritual Assembly for consultation
before the assistance is given.--N. S. A.
ASSOCIATION WITH
ORIENTALS
I wish ,to add a few lines and remind you
of the necessity of refusing to admit to your
Assembly, or associate with, any Oriental who
does not have proper credentials from a rec-
ognized Spiritual Assembly. No excuse what-
ever is acceptable.
I am sure that a few
are trying to cause mischief and bring about
a split in the ranks of the believers in these
days of stress, and the utmost caution should
be exercised, lest these mischief-makers suc-
ceed in undermining the foundations of the
Cause.-SH0GHI EFFENDI.
CONSULTATION ON
PERSONAL DIFFICULTIES
He ( Shogh:i Effendi) was very sorry to
learn that you are passing through difficult
times, but such seems to be the fate of every
single person on the surface of the earth at
the present time. When such a crisis sweeps
over the world no person should hope to re-
main intact.
We belong to an organic unit
and when one part of the organism· suffers
all the rest of the body will feel its conse-
quences.
This is in fact the reason why
Baha'u'llah calls our attention to the unity
of mankind.
But as Baha'is we should not
let such hardshiips weaken our hope in the
future.
Read the last general letter of
Shoghi Effendi ("The Golden Age of the
Cause of Bahi'u'llah")
and see the descrip-
tion of the future which he has tried to put
before our eyes.
We may be suffering at
present but that will soon cease and glorious
days will dawn.
In all such matters
as you mention in
your letter, Shoghi Effendi wishes the friends
to take the Assemblies into their confidence
and discuss it with them. Being on the spot
they can judge better and take into ·consid-
eration all the different aspects of the prob-
lem. We should always trust the Assemblies
and go to them for advice. Our debts, how-
ever, should be considered as sacred and take
precedence over any other thing (i. e., pay-
SECTION ONE, SHEET 19
ment of debts comes before contributions to
the Cause) for upon this principle does the
foundation
of our economic life rest.-
SHOGHI EFFENDI.
CLASSIFICATION OF MA-
TERIALS FOR PRESERV A-
TION IN NATIONAL ANO
LOCAL BAHA'i ARCHIVES
Note:
This dassification has been made
in order to clarify the nature of the material
to be preserved in the Archives, w,ith a suit-
able distinction between that which should
be sent to the National Archives and that
which should enter into the Archives estab-
lished by a local Spiritual Assembly.
I. Tablets and relics of Baha'u'llah and
the Bab, whether original Tablets or repro-
ductions.
This material is essentially Na-
tional in character.
II. Tablets and relics of 'Abdu'l-Baha. The
Tablets -should be original, signed Tablets, or
authentic
reproductions
such as photostat
copies.
Tablets should be accompanied by
original translation if possible. All original
Tablets should be preserved in the National
Archives.
Photostats of Tablets revealed to
the Spiritual Assembly, or to individual be-
lievers, might well be placed in the local
Archives.
As regards ,the nature of relics,
the Guardian has given the following ex-
planation: "The general principle should be
that any object used by Him in person should
be preserved for posterity, whether ,in the
local or National Archives.
It is the duty
and responsibility of the Baha'i Assemblies
to ascertain carefully whether such objects
are genuine or not, and to exercise the ut-
most care and caution in the matter."
III. Letters of Shoghi Effendi. These are
of three different classes-those
written to
the N. S. A. and the entire American Baha'i
Community; those written to local Assem-
blies; and those written to individual believ-
ers.
The National Assembly is preserving
the national letters of the Guardian, particu-
larly as they occasionally contain matters
confidential to that body. The N. S. A. plans
to photostat all the Guardian's letters, at
which time all originals can be gone over
with a view .to their preservation in the Na-
tional Archives. Original letters to local As-
semblies are for the most part not confiden-
tial and can be preserved in the National
Archives, with photostats in the local Ar-
chives.
Letters to individual believers can
be sent to the National Archives and photo-
stats obtained for the recipient and for the
local Archives.
IV. National events and activities. Such

BAHA't PROCEDURE
events as 'Abdu'l-Baha's American journey,
the founding of the Temple, early historical
records of Star of the West, Baha'i Publish-
ing Committee, Green Acre, Geyserville and
Louhelen Ranch and other activities of more
than local importance constitute an impres-
sive aspect of Baha'i history, and all original
documents and records should be turned over
to the N. S. A., if not already done, for its
examination and subsequent deposit in the
National Archives.
V. Local records and activities. Records
and documents pertaining to such activities
are of two classes: the Minutes and corre-
spondence of the Spiritual Assembly, which
are preserved by the As,sembly itself, and
non-administrative material of historical in-
terest and importance, such as programs,
newspaper
clippings,
Historical
Record
Cards, etc.
It is recommended that each
Spiritual
Assembly also provide a bound
book in which its Archives Committee can
keep a record of enrollments of new believers
and also deaths or removals from the com-
munity.
VI. Baha'i publications.
A complete file
of al,l publications, such as books, pamphlets,
magazines, news letters,
etc., of official
Baha'i character is being developed in the
National Archives, and the cooperation of
the friends is requested ,to make this com-
plete. Out of print Baha'i hooks and •pamph-
lets will be appreciated.
VII. Individual records and papers. Fam-
ilies in possession of the papers belonging to
such prominent workers as those named in
"America and the Most Great Peace" will ap-
preciate that such records are part of the
history of the Cause and might well he turned
over to the Archives and History Committee.
Other personal records might similarly be
turned over to the local Archives Committee.
-N.
S.A.
PURPOSE OF SUMMER
SCHOOLS
The basic purpose of all Baha'i Summer
Schools, whether in East or West, is to give
the believers the opportunity to ,acquaint
themselves, not only by mere study but
through whole-hearted and active collabora-
tion in various Baha'i activities, with- the
essentials of the Administration and in this
way enable them to become efficient and able
promoters of the Cause. The teaching of the
Administration is, therefore, an indispensa-
ble feature of every Baha'i Summer School
and its special significance can be better un-
derstood if we realize the great need of every
believer today for a more adequate under-
standing of the social principles and laws of
SECTION ONE, SHEET 20
the Faith.
It is now, when the Cause is
passing through some of the most difficult
stages of its development, that the friends
should equip themselves with the necessary
knowledge of the Administration.-SH0GHI
EFFENDI.
NOT AN ECONOMIC
SYSTEM
There are practically no technical teach-
ings on economics in the Cause, such as
banking, the price system, and others.
The
Cause is not an economic system, nor can its
founders be considered as having been tech-
nical economists. The contribution of the
Faith to this subject is essentially indirect,
as it consists of the application of spiritual
principles to our present-day economic sys-
tem. Baha'u'llah has given us a few basic
principles which should guide future Baha'i
economists in establishing such institutions
as will adjust the economic relationships
of the world.-SH0GHI EFFENDI.
TEMPLE MODELS TO BE
APPROVED
The following rulings have been adopted
by the Temple Trustees, and are here pub-
lished with the approval of the National
Spiritual Assembly :-
Any model or reproduction of the Temple
must be submitted to the Temple Trustees,
and the Trustees will then determine wheth-
er the model or reproduction is acceptable,
and also will determine the conditions under
which it can be sold. Local Assemblies, or
other Baha'i bodies, or individual believers,
are not to purchase or exhibit any Temple
model except through the Temple Trustees.
-N.S.A.
PUBLICATION OF BAHA'I
COMPILATIONS
1. A compilation is subject to review by
the Reviewing Committee in the same man-
ner as are other Baha'i works.
Every com-
pilation must include the latest available
translation of each excerpt, and the source of
each excerpt must be supplied.
If the plan
of the booki makes it inconvenient to add the
source at the end of each excerpt in the
printed work, the source must be noted in
the manuscript supplied to the Reviewing
Committee.
2. The compiler should not conclude any
arrangement
with a non-Baha'i publisher
until the compilation has been officially ap-
proved. If the • compiler intends to print or

BAHA'f PROCEDURE
publish the compilation outside the Cause,
the proposed arrangement is to be submitted
to the National Spiritual Assembly through
its Publishing Committee for approval.
3. In giving its aipproval for such printing
or publication, the National Spiritual Assem-
bly, in consultation with its Reviewing and
Publishing
Committee, wiLI consider not
merely the question of accuracy in the text,
but ,also the general question of policy in-
volved in allowing Baha'i literature to be
published outside the established Baha'i fa-
cilities.
4. In giving its approval, the National
Spiritual Assembly wiLI in each case here-
after request the compiler to assign to the
Baha'i Publishing Committee any copyright
taken out on publication of the book or
pamphlet. Otherwise, the control of Baha'i
literature would pass outside the Cause.
The purpose of this statement is to assure
proper protection of the interests of the
Baha'i Faith, while providing sufficient free-
dom of action to individual believers under
all circumstances.-N.
S. A.
COOPERATION WITH
BAHA't AUTHORS
When a Baha'i author wishes to obtain
orders from Assemblies and believers for a
book published by a non-Baha'i firm, the au-
thor is to make arrangements satisfactory to
the Publishing Committee; and the Publish-
ing Committee, not the author, is to report
the matter to the National Spiritual Assem-
bly.
The Publishing Committee will cooperate
with a Baha'i author only when rthe Review-
.ing Committee has specifically recommended
the book and not merely approved it, and
when the National Spiritual Assembly has
specifically approved and adopted the Re-
viewing Committee's trecommendation.-N.
S. A.
NATIONAL FUND
As the activities of the American Baha'i
community expand, and its worldwide pres-
tige correspondingly increases, the institu-
tion of the National Fund, the bedrock on
which all other institutions must necessarily
rest and be established, acquires added im-
portance, and should be increasingly support-
ed ,by the entire body of the believers, both
in their individual capacities, and through
their collective efforts, whether organized as
groups or as local Assemblies.
The supply
of funds, in support of the National Treas-
ury, constitutes, at the present time, the
life~blood of these nascent institutions you
are laboring to erect. Its importance cannot,
SECTION ONE, SHEET 21
surely, be over-estimated.
Untold blessings
shall no doubt crown every effort directed to
that end.-SH0GHI EFFENDI.
BAHA'f YOUTH AT NINE-
TEEN DAY FEASTS
With respect to the question of the par-
ticipation of Baha'i young people in Nine-
teen Day Feasts, the following principle has
been adopted: that the children of believers
· can attend the Nineteen Day Feasts and
other intimate gatherings and Baha'i meet-
ings, but when they reach the age of sixteen
years, the local Assembly should request
from such young people a declaration of their
interest in the Cause and their intention to
become voting members when they reach the
age of twenty-one; and that other young peo-
ple, not children of Baha'is, can also attend
Nineteen Day Feasts and other Baha'i meet-
ings after reaching the age of sixteen years
by making a similar declaration to the local
Assembly.-N.
S. A.
THE QUESTION OF
HUMANITARIAN
RELIEF
It has been pointed out by a believer who
has studied the teachings with unusual care
and insight, that in the Baha'i community
when fully developed the practice of "char-
ity" in the narrower meaning of that word
will be rendered unnecessary.
The House of
Justice, from its resources derived not only
from voluntary contributions but also from
certain specified taxes, will as one of its func-
tions come to the assistance of every deserv-
ing believer in distress.
That relief will not
be as "charity" but as a normal right arising
from the very nature of a community based
upon oneness and able, by the application of
the teachings of Baha'u'llah, to abolish pov-
erty at its source.
But that era has not yet been established.
The believers today find themselves in a com-
munity whose spiritual laws are known but
whose material powers and capacities are
limited. The result is that conditions arise
which Spiritual Assemblies find themselves
apparently powerless to remedy.
They are
grieved as they feel themselves torn between
the claims of true compassion and the need
of concentrating their available means upon
such vital objects as the Temple.
The National Assembly understands that
the Guardian has expressed the view that
under present conditions a local_ Assembly
which has before it a case of urgent distress
should endeavor, first, to have it relieved by
members of the believer's own family, and

BAHA't PROCEDURE
second, to exercise the rights of all citizens
to employ all civil instruments of help and
assistance.
In many instances loving consul-
tation will serve to remove certain obstacles
which, perhaps unconsciously, have been the
cause of the distress.
Most difficult and grievous of all are those
cases which concern believers not members
of an organized local community.
The Na-
tional Spiritual Assembly does not vote from
the National Fund any appropriations
for
personal relief, for its resources are impera-
tively demanded for direct Baha'i purposes
the fulfilment of which brings us all grad-
ually nearer the blessed day when the Faith
of Baha'u'llah
shall prevail, and existing
causes of suffering be removed. Institutions
described in the teachings will in the future
be maintained in all communities for those
who need home and care.
The subject is one which the National As-
sembly brings forward at this time in a ten-
tative form, in the hope that suggestions
emanating from local consultation will be
made. The spirit of the Cause is such that
some way must and will be found to remedy
a general situation which may become even
more serious before it is solved by the de-
velopment of the World Order of Baha'u'llah.
There may be individual believers in a posi-
tion to off er a home to some believer whose
difficulties are known to the National Assem-
-bly. Any and all advice and constructive
suggestions will be deeply appreciated.-
N. S. A.
ON COMMERCIAL
ARRANGEMENTS FOR
THE CAUSE
In view of the fact that the National As-
sembly had before it several proposals from
individual believers which involved methods
SECTION ONE, SHEET 22
of raising Baha'i funds through commercial
activities carried on either in the name of
the Cause or making use of Baha'i adminis-
trative facilities, the Assembly felt it neces-
sary to record in its Minutes the fact that it
could not recognize nor approve any such
commercial undertaking.
It was felt inad-
visable to sanction commercial aictivities of
a nature tending to divert the interest and
attention of the friends from the vital spirit-
ual objects of the Cause, especially in view
of the Guardian's standard of sacrifice as the
basis of our collective success in building the
Temple. Another consideration was the fact
that the amounts which might be donated to
the Baha'i Fund from profits of sales made
to believers would at best represent only a
comparatively small fraction of the money
spent in the transaction.
On the other hand,
the National Assembly encourages all possi-
ble enterprise on the part of individual be-
lievers in increasing their earnings through
legitimate business and professional activi-
ties, for the purpose of contributing more to
the Fund.-N.
S. A.
I feel that only such goods as are owned
by believers, whether made by Baha'is or
non-Baha'is, may be sold in the interests of
the Temple or any other Baha'i institution,
thus maintaining the general principle that
non-believers are not, whether directly or
indirectly, expected to contribute to the sup..
port of institutions
that are of a strictly
Baha'i character.
As to the manner of the
disposal of Baha'i property for such pur-
poses, and the channel through which the
·sale may be effected, I feel that no rigid rule
should be imposed.
Individual Baha'is are
free to seek the help of private individuals
or of Spiritual Assemblies to act as inter-
mediary for such transactions.
We should
avoid confusion on one hand and maintain
efficiency on the other, and lay no unneces-
sary restrictions that would fetter individual
initiative and enterprise.-SH0GHI
EFFENDI.

BAHA't PROCEDURE
THE INSTITUTION OF THE
LOCAL SPIRITUAL
ASSEMBLY
And, now, that this all-important
Work
may suffer no neglect, but rather function
vigorously and continuously in every part of
the Baha'i world; ,that the unity of the Cause
of Baha'u'llah may remain secure and in-
violate, it is of the utmost importance that
in accordance with the explicit text of the
Kitab-ul-Aqdas, the Most Holy Book, in every
locality, be it city or hamlet, where the num-
ber of adult (21 years and above) declared
believers exceeds nine, a local "Spiritual As-
sembly'' be forthwith established.
To it all
local matters pertaining to the Cause must be
directly and immediately referred for full
consultation and decision. The importance,
nay the absolute necessity of these local As-
semblies is manifest when we realize that in
the days to come they will evolve into the
local House of Justice, and at present pro-
vide the firm foundation on which the struc-
ture of the Master's Will is to be reared in
future.
The matter of Teaching, its direction, its
ways and means, its extension, its consolida-
tion, essential as they are to the interests of
the Cause, constitute by no means the only
issue which should receive the full attention
of these Assemblies.
A careful study of
Baha'u'llah's and 'Abdu'l-Baha's Tablets will
reveal that other duties, no less vital to the
interests
of the Cause, devolve upon the
elected representatives of the friends in ev-
ery locality.
It is incumbent upon them to be vigilant
and cautious, discreet and watchful, and pro-
tect at all times the Temple of the Cause
from the dart of the mischief-maker and the
onslaught of the enemy.
They must endeavor to promote amity and
concord amongst the friends, efface every
lingering trace of distrust, coolness and es-
trangement from every heart, and secure in
its stead an active and whole-hearted
co-
operation for the service of the Cause.
They must do their utmost to extend at all
times the helping hand to the poor, the sick,
the disabled, the orphan, the widow, irrespec-
tive of color, caste and creed.
They must promote by every means in
their power the material as well as the spirit-
ual enlightenment of youth, the means for
the education of children, institute, when-
ever possible, Baha'i educational institutions,
organize and supervise ,their work and pro-
vide the best means for their progress and
development.
They must make an effort to maintain offi-
SECTION TWO, SHEET 1
cial, regular, and frequent correspondence
with the various Baha'i centers throughout
the world, report to them their activities,
and share the glad-tidings they receive with
all their fellow-workers in the Cause.
They must encourage and stimulate by
every means at their command, through sub-
scription, reports and articles, the develop-
ment of the various Baha'i magazines, such
as the "Star of the West" and the "Magazine
of the Children of the Kingdom" in the Unit-
ed States of America, the "Baha'i News" of
India, the "Sun of the East"
(Khurshid-i
Khavar) in Turkestan, the "Star of the East"
in Japan, the "Sun of Truth" in Germany.
They must undertake the arrangement of
the regular meetings of the friends, the
feasts and the anniversaries, as well as the
special gatherings designed to serve and pro-
mote the social, intellectual and spiritual in-
terests of their fellow-men.
They must supervise in these days when
the Cause is still in its infancy all Baha'i
publications and translations, and provide in
general for a dignified and accurate presen-
tation of all Baha'i literature
and its dis-
tribution to the general public.
These rank among the most outstanding
obligations of the members of every Spiritual
Assembly. In whatsoever locality the Cause
has sufficiently expanded, and in order to in-
sure efficiency and avoid confusion, each of
these manifold functions will have to be re-
f erred to a special Committee, responsible
to that Assembly, elected by it from among
the friends in that locality, and upon whose
work the Assembly will have to exercise con-
stant and general supervision.
These local Spiritual Assemblies will have
to be elected directly by the friends, and ev-
ery declared believer of 21 years ,and above,
far from standing aloof and assuming an in-
different or independent attitude, should re-
gard it his sacred duty to take part conscien-
tiously and diligently, in the election, the con-
solidation and the efficient' working of his
own local Assembly.
Pending its establishment, and to insure
uniformity throughout the East and through-
out the West, all local Assemblies will have
to ,be re-elected once a year, during the first
day of Ridvan, and the result of polling, if
possible, be declared on that day.
In order to avoid division and disruption,
that the Cause may not fall a prey to con-
flicting interpretations,
and lose thereby its
purity and pristine vigor, that its affairs may
be conducted with efficiency and promptness,
it is necessary that every one should con-
scientiously take an active part in the elec-
tion of these Assemblies, abide by their deci-
sion, enforce their decree, and cooperate with

BAHA'1 PROCEDURE
them wholeheartedly in their task of stimu-
lating the growth of the Movement through-
out all regions.
The members of these As-
semblies, on their part, must disregard utter-
ly their own likes and dislikes, their personal
interests and inclinations, and concentrate
their minds upon those measures that will
conduce to the welfare and happiness of the
Baha'i Community and promote the common
weal.
The various Assemblies, local and na-
tional, constitute today the bedrock upon the
strength of which the Universal House is in
future to be firmly established and raised.
Not until these function vigorously ·and har-
moniously can the hope for the termination
of this period of transition be realized.
It
devolves upon us whose dearest wish is to
see the Cause enter upon that ,promised era
of universal recognition and world achieve-
ments, to do all in our power to consolidate
the foundations of these Assemblies, promot-
ing at the same time a fuller understanding
of their ,purpose and more harmonious co-
operation for their maintenance and success.
Let us also remember that at the very root
of the Cause lies the principle of the un-
doubted right of the individual to self-ex-
pression, his freedom to declare his con-
science and set forth his views. If certain
instructions
of the Master are today par-
ticularly emphasized and scrupulously ad-
hered to, let us be sure that they are but
provisional measures designed to guard and
protect the Cause in its present state of in-
fancy and growth until the day when this
tender and precious ,plant shall have suffi-
ciently grown to be able to withstand the
unwisdom of its friends and the attacks of
its enemies.
Let us also bear in mind that the keynote
of the Cause of God is not dictatorial author-
ity but humble fellowship, not arbitrary
power, but the spirit of frank and loving con-
sultation.
Nothing short of the spirit of a
true Baha'i can hope to reconcile the prin-
ciples of mercy and justice, of freedom and
submission, of the sanctity of the right of the
individual and of self-surrender, of vigilance,
discretion •and prudence on the one hand, and
fellowship,
candor,
and courage
on the
other.
The duties of those whom the friends have
freely and conscientiously elected as their
representatives
are no less vital and binding
than the obligations
of those who have
chosen them.
Their function is not to dic-
tate, but to consult, •and consult not only
among themselves, but as much as possible
with the friends whom they represent. They
must regard themselves in no other light but
that of chosen instruments
for a more effi-
SECTION TWO, SHEET 2
cient and dignified presentation of the Cause
of God. They should never be led to suppose
that they are the central ornaments of the
body of the Cause, intrinsically superior to
others in capacity or merit, and sole pro-
moters of its teachings and principles. They
should approach their task with extreme hu-
mility, and endeavor, by their open-minded-
ness, their high sense of justice and duty,
their candor, their modesty, their entire de-
votion to the welfare and interests of the
friends, the Cause, and humanity, to win, not
only the confidence and the genuine support
and respect of those whom they serve, but
also their esteem and real affection.
They
must, at all time, avoid the spirit of ex-
clusiveness,
the
atmosphere
of
secrecy,
free themselves from a domineering atti-
tude, and banish all forms of prejudice
and passion trom their deliberations.
They
should, within the limits of wise discretion,
take the friends into their confidence, ac-
quaint them with their plans, share with
them their problems and anxieties, and seek
their advice and counsel.
And, when they
are called upon to arrive at a certain deci-
sion, they should, after dispassionate,
an-
xious and cordial consultation, turn to God
in prayer, and with earnestness and convic-
tion and courage record their vote and abide
by the voice of the majority, which we are
told by our Master to be the voice of truth,
never to be challenged, and always to be
whole-heartedly enforced.
To this voice the
friends must heartily respond, and regard
it as the only means that can insure the pro-
tection and advancement of the Cause.-
SHOGHI EFFENDI.
THE BASIS OF THE
COMMUNITY
We must speak of things that are possible
of performance
in this world.
There are
many theories and high ideas on this subject,
but they are not practicable ; consequently
we must speak of things that are feasible.
For example, if some one oppresses, in-
jures, and wrongs another, and the wronged
man retaliates,
this is veng,eance, and is
censurable. . . .
But the community has the right of de-
fence and of self-protection; moreover, the
community has no hatred nor animosity for
the murderer:
it imprisons or punishes him
merely for the protection and security of
others.
It is not for the purpose of taking
vengeance upon the murderer, but for the
purpose of inflicting a punishment by which
the community will be protected ....
As forgiveness is one of the attributes of
the Merciful One, so also justice is one of the

BAHA'I PROCEDURE
attributes of the Lord. The tent of existence
is upheld upon the pillar of justice, and not
upon forgiveness.
The continuance of man-
kind depends upon justice and not upon for-
giveness.
So if, at present, the law of par-
don were practised in all countries, in a short
time the world would be disordered, and the
foundations of human life would crumble.
To recapitulate:
the constitution of the
communities depends upon justice, not upon
forgiveness.
Then what Christ meant by
forgiveness and pardon is not that, when
nations attack you, burn your homes, plunder
your goods, assault your wives, children, and
relatives, and violate your honor, you should
be submissive in the presence of these tyran-
nical foes, and •allow them to perform all
their cruelties ,and oppressions.
No, the
words of Christ refer to the conduct of two
individuals towards each other: if one per-
son assaults another, the injured one should
forgive him. But the communities must pro-
tect the rights of man.-'ABDU'L-BAHA.
A PROCEDURE FOR THE
CONDUCT OF THE LOCAL
SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY
INTRODUCTION
"A perusal of some of the words of Ba-
ha'u'llah and ·Abdu'l-Baha on the duties and
functions of the Spiritual Assemblies in ev-
ery land (later to be designated as the local
Houses of Justice), emphatically reveals the
sacredness of their nature, the wide scope of
their activity, and the grave responsibility
which rests upon them."-SHOGHI EFFENDI,
March 5, 1922.
"The Lord hath ordained that in every city
a House of Justice be established wherein
shall gather counsellors to the number of
Baha ....
It hehooveth them to be the trusted
ones of the Merciful among men and to re-
gard themselves as the guardians appointed
of God for all that dwell on earth.
It is in-
cumbent upon them to take counsel together
and to have regard for the interests of the
servants of God, for His sake, even as they
regard their own interests, and to choose
that which is meet and seemly. Thus hath
the Lord your God commanded you. Beware
lest ye put away that which is clearly re-
vealed in His Tablet.
Fear God, 0 ye that
perceive."-BAHA'U'LLAH.
"It is incumbent upon every one not to
take any step without consulting the Spirit-
ual Assembly, and they must assuredly obey
with heart and soul its bidaing •and he sub-
missive unto it, that things may ibe properly
ordered and well arranged. Otherwise every
SECTION TWO, SHEET 3
person will act independently and after his
own judgment, will follow his own desire,
and do harm to the ·cause.
"The prime requisites for them that take
counsel together are purity of motive, radi-
ance of spirit, detachment from all else save
God, attraction to His Divine Fragrance, hu-
mility and lowliness amongst His loved ones,
patience and long-suffering in difficulties and
servitude to His exalted Threshold.
Should
they be graciously aided to acquire these at-
tributes, victory from the unseen Kingdom
of Baha shall be vouchsafed to them.
In
this day, Assemblies of consultation are of
the greatest importance and a vital neces-
sity.
Obedience unto them is essential and
obligatory.
The members thereof must take
counsel together in such wise that no occa-
sion for illfeeling or discord may arise. This
can be attained
when every member ex-
presseth with absolute freedom his own opin-
ion and setteth forth his argument.
Should
any one oppose, he must on no account feel
hurt for not until matters are fully dis-
cussed can the right way be revealed.
The
shining sparkl of truth cometh forth only
after the clash of differing opinions.
If,
after discussion, a decision be carried unani-
mously, well and good; hut if, the Lord for-
bid, differences of opinion should arise, a
majority of voices must prevail. ...
"The first condition is absolute love and
harmony amongst the members of the As-
sembly. They must be wholly free from es-
trangement and must manifest in themselves
the Unity of God, for they are the waves of
one sea, the drops of one river, the stars
of one heaven, the rays of one sun, the trees
of one orchard, the flowers of one garden.
Should harmony of thought and absolute
unity be non-exi~tent, that gathering shall
be dispersed and that Assembly be brought
to naught.
The second condition :-They
must when coming together turn their faces
to the Kingdom on High and ask aid from
the Realm of Glory. They must then proceed
with the utmost devotion, courtesy, dignity,
care and moderation to express their views.
They must in every matter search out the
truth and not insist upon their own opinion,
for stubbornness
and persistence in one's
views will lead ultimately to discord and
wrangling and the truth will remain hidden.
The honored members must with all freedom
express their own thoughts, and it is in no
wise permissible
for one to belittle the
thought of another, nay, he must with mod-
eration set forth the truth, and should dif-
ferences of opinion arise a majority of voices
must ,prevail, and all must obey ·and submit
to the majority.
It is again not permitted
that any one of the honored members object

BAHA't PROCEDURE
to or censure, whether in or out of the meet-
ing, any decision arrived
at previously,
though that decision be not right, for such
criticism would prevent any decision from
being enforced.
In short, whatsoever thing
is arranged in harmony and with love and
purity of motive, its result is light, and
should the least trace of estrangement ,pre-
vail the result shall be darkness upon dark-
ness ....
If this be so regarded, that Assem-
bly shall be of God, but otherwise it shall lead
to coolness and alienation that proceed from
the Evil One. Discussions must all be con-
fined to spiritual matters that pertain to the
training of souls, the instruction of children,
the relief of the poor, the help of the feeble
throughout all classes in the world, kindness
to all peoples, the diffusion of the fragrances
of God and the exaltation of His Holy Word.
Should they endeavor to fulfil these condi-
tions the Grace of the Holy Spirit shall be
vouchsafed unto them, and that Assembly
shall become the center of the Divine bless-
ings, the hosts of Divine confirmation shall
come to their aid and they shall day by day
receive a new effusion of Spirit."-'ABDU'L-
BAHA.
"The importance, nay the absolute neces-
sity of these local Assemblies is manifest
when we realize that in the days to come they
will evolve into the local House of Justice,
and at present provide the firm foundation
on which the structure of the Master's Will
is to be reared in future.
"In order to avoid division and disruption,
that the Cause may not fall a prey to con-
flicting interpretations,
and lose thereby its
purity and pristine vigor, that its affairs may
,be conducted with efficiency and promptness,
it is necessary that every one (i. e., every
member of the Baha' community)
should
conscientiously take an active part in the
election of these Assemblies, abide by their
decision, enforce their decree, and cooperate
with them whole-heartedly in their task of
stimulating
the growth of the Movement
throughout all regions. The members of these
Assemblies, on their part, must disregard
utterly their own likes and dislikes, their
personal interests and inclinations, and con-
centrate their minds upon those measures
that will conduce to the welfare and happi-
ness of the Baha'i community and promote
the
common
weal."-SH0GHI
EFFENDI,
March 12, 1923.
"Let us recall His explicit and often-re-
peated assurance that every Assembly elected
in that rarified atmosphere of selflessness
and detachment is, in truth, atppointed of
God, that its verdict is truly inspired, that
one and all should submit to its decision un-
SECTION TWO, SHEET 4
reservedly and with cheerfulness."-SHOGHI
EFFENDI, February 23, 1924.
I. FUNCTIONS OF THE
LOCAL SPIRITUAL
ASSEMBLY
The various functions of the local Spiritual
Assembly, and its nature as a constitutional
body, are duly set forth in Artide VII of the
By-Laws of the National Spiritual Assembly,
and are more definitely defined in the By-
Laws of a local Spiritual Assembly approved
by the National Spiritual Assembly and rec-
ommended by the Guardian.
Each local
Spiritual Assembly, and all members of the
local Baha'i community, shall be guided and
controlled by the provisions of those By-
Laws.
II. MEETINGS OF THE
LOCAL SPIRITUAL
ASSEMBLY
In addition to its observance of the gen-
eral functions vested in the institution of a
Spiritual Assembly, each Spiritual Assembly
has need of a procedure for the conduct of
its meetings.
The following items represent
the outline of the parliamentary rules of pro-
cedure which the National Spiritual Assem-
bly has adopted and recommends to each and
every local Spiritual Assembly throughout
the United States and Canada.
Calling of Meetings
A meeting of the Spiritual Assembly is
valid only when it has been duly called, that
is, when each and every member has ·been
informed of the time and place. The gen-
eral practice is for the Assembly to decide
upon some regular time and place for its
meetings throughout the Baha'i year, and
this decision when recorded in the Minutes
is sufficient notice to the members.
When
the regular schedule cannot be followed, or
the need arises for a special meeting, the
secretary, on request by the chairman or
any three members of the Spiritual Assem-
bly, should send due notice to all the mem-
bers.
Order of Business
Roll call by the Secretary ( or Recording Sec-
retary).
Prayer.
Reading and approval of Minutes of previous
meeting.
Report of Secretary ( or Corresponding Sec-
retary),
including ,presentation of letters
received by the Assembly since its last
meeting, and of any and all recommenda-

BAHA't PROCEDURE
tions duly adopted by the community at
the last Nineteen Day Feast.
Report of Treasurer.
Report of Committees.
Unfinished business.
New business, including conferences with
members of the community and with ap-
plicants for enrollment as members of the
community.
•
Closing Prayer.
Conduct of Business
A Spiritual Assembly, in maintaining its
threefold function of a body given (within
the limits of its jurisdiction)
an executive,
a legislative and a judicial capacity, is
charged with responsibility for imitating ac-
tion and making decisions.
Its meetings,
therefore,
revolve around various definite
matters which require deliberation ,and col-
lective decision, and it is incumbent upon
the members, one and all, to address them-
selves to the subject under discussion and
not engage in general speeches of an irrele-
vant character.
Every subject or problem ,before an As-
sembly is most efficiently handled when the
following process is observed: first, ascer-
tainment and agreement upon the facts;
second, agreement upon the spiritual or ad-
ministrative Teachings which the question
involves; third, full and frank discussion of
the matter, leading up to the offering of a
resolution; and fourth, voting upon the reso-
lution.
A resolution, or motion, is not subject to
discussion or vote until duly made and sec-
onded.
It is pref era:ble to have each reso-
lution clear and complete in itself, but when
an amendment is duly made and seconded,
the Chairman shall call for a vote on the
amendment first ·and then on the original
motion.
An amendment must be relevant
to, and not contravene, the subject matter
of the motion.
The Chairman, or other • presiding officer,
has the same power and responsibility for
discussion and voting upon motions as other
members of the Assembly.
Discussion of any matter before the As-
sembly may be terminated by a motion duly
made, seconded and voted calling upon the
Chairman to put the matter to a vote or to
proceed to the next matter on the agenda.
The purpose of this procedure is to prevent
any member or members from prolonging
the discussion beyond the point at which full
opportunity has been given all members to
express their views.
When the Assembly has taken action upon
any matter, the action is binding upon all
SECTION TWO, SHEET 5
members, whether present or absent from
the meeting at which the action was taken.
Individual views and opinions must be sub-
ordinated to the will of the Assembly when a
decision has been made. A Spiritual Assem-
bly is an administrative unit, as it is a spir-
itual unit, and therefore no distinction be-
tween "majority" and "minority" groups or
factions can be recognized.
Each member
must give undivided loyalty to the institu-
tion to which he or she has been elected.
Any action taken by the Assembly can be
reconsidered at a later meeting, on motion
duly made, seconded and carried.
This re-
consideration, according to the result of the
consultation, may lead to a revision or the
annulment of the prior action. If a major-
ity is unwilling to reconsider the prior ac-
tion, further discussion of the matter by any
member is improper.
The Assembly has a responsibility in fill-
ing a vacancy caused by the inability of any
member to attend the meetings.
"It is only
too obvious that unless a member can attend
regularly the meetings of his local Assembly,
it would be impossible for him to discharge
the duties incumbent upon him, and to fulfil
his responsibilities as a representative
of
the community. Membership in a local Spir-
itual Assembly carries with it, indeed, the
obligation and capacity to remain in close
touch with local Baha'i activities, and ability
to attend regularly the sessions of the As-
sembly."-SHOGHI
EFFENDI, January
27,
1935.
The Spiritual Assembly, as a permanent
body, is responsible for maintaining all its
records, including Minutes of meetings, cor-
respondence and financial records, through-
out its existence as a Baha'i institution. Each
officer, therefore, on completing his or her
term of office, shall turn over to the Assem-
bly all records pertaining to the business of
the Assembly.
III. CONSULTATION WITH
THE COMMUNITY
A. The institution of the Nineteen Day Feast
provides the recognized and regular occa-
sion for general consultation on the part of
the community, and for consultation between
the Spiritual Assembly and the members of
the community.
The conduct of the period
of consultation at Nineten Day Feasts is a
vital function of each Spiritual Assembly.
From Words of •Abdu'l-Baha, "The Nine-
teen Day Feast was inaugurated by the Bab
and ratified by Baha'u'llah, in His Holy Book,
the Aqdas, so that people may gather to-
gether and outwardly show fellowship and
love, that the Divine mysteries may be dis-

BAHA't PROCEDURE
closed. The object is concord, that through
this fellowship hearts may become perfectly
united, and reciprocity •and mutual helpful-
ness be established.
Because the members
of the world of humanity are unable to ex-
ist without being banded together, coopera-
tion and helpfulness is the basis of human
society.
Without the realization
of these
two great principles no great movement is
pressed forward.''
(London, England, De-
cember 29, 1912.
Quoted in Baha'i News
No. 33.) •
The Nineteen Day Feast has been de-
scribed by the Guardian as the foundation of
the World Order of Baha'u'llah.
It is to be
conducted according to the following pro-
gram : the first part, entirely spiritual
in
character, is devoted to readings from Baha'i
Sacred Writings; the second part consists of
general consultation on the affairs of the
Cause. The third part is the material feast
and social meeting of all the believers, and
should maintain the spiritual nature of the
Feast.
,
Baha'is should regard this Feast as the
very heart of their spiritual activity, their
participation in the mystery of the Holy Ut-
terance, their steadfast unity one with an-
other in a universality raised high above the
limitations of race, class, nationality,
sect,
and personality, and their privilege of con-
tributing to the power of the Cause in the
realm of collective action.
Calendar of the Nineteen Day
Feast
March 21
April 9
April 28
May 17
June 5
June 24
July 13
August 1
August 20
September 8
September 27
October 16
November 4
November 23
December 12
December 31
January 19
February 7
March 2
The Spiritual Assembly is responsible for
the holding of the Nineteen Day Feast.
If
the Baha'i calendar for some adequate rea-
son cannot be observed, the Assembly may
arrange to hold a Feast at the nearest pos-
sible date.
Only members of the Baha'i community,
and visiting Baha'is from other communities,
may attend these meetings, but young people
of less than twenty--0ne years of age, who
have studied the Teachings
and declared
their intention of joining the community on
reaching the age of twenty-one, may also
attend.
Regular attendance at the Nineteen Day
Feast is incumbent upon every Baha'i, ill-
nes·s or absence from the city being the only
justification for absence. 'Believers are ex-
SECTION TWO, SHEET 6
pected to arrange their personal affairs so
as to enable them to observe the Baha'i cal-
endar.
Order of Business for the
Consultation Period
The chairman or other appointed repre-
sentative of the Spiritual Assembly presides
during the period of consultation.
The Spiritual
Assembly reports
to the
community whatever communications have
been received from the Guardian and the
National Spiritual Assembly, and provides
opportunity for general discussion.
The Assembly likewise reports its own ac-
tivities and plans, including committee ap-
pointments that may have been made since
the last Feast, the financial report, arrange-
ments made for ,public meetings, and in gen-
eral share with the community all matters
that concern the Faith.
These reports are
to be followed by general consultation.
A matter of vital importance at this meet-
ing is consideration of national and interna-
tional :J3aha'i affairs, to strengthen the capac-
ity of the community to cooperate in promo-
tion of the larger Baha'i interests and to
deepen the understanding
of all believers
concerning the relation of the local commu-
nity to the Baha'i World Community.
Individual Baha'is are to find in the Nine-
teen Day Feast the channel through which to
make suggestions and recommendations
to
the National
Spiritual
Assembly.
These
recommendations are offered first to the lo-
cal community, and when adopted by the
community come before the local Assembly,
which then may in its discretion forward the
recommendation
to the National Spiritual
Assembly accompanied by its own considered
view.
Provision is to be made for reports from
committees, with discussion of each report.
Finally, the meeting is to be open for sug-
gestions and recommendations
from indi-
vidual believers on any matter affecting the
Cause.
The local Baha'i community may adopt
by majority
vote any resolution which it
wishes ·collectively to record as its advice and
recommendation to the Spiritual Assembly.
Upon each member of the community lies
the obligation to make his or her utmost con-
tribution to the consultation, the ideal being
a gathering
of Baha'is inspired with one
spirit and concentrating upon the one aim to
further the interests of the Faith.
The Secretary of the Assembly records
each resolution adopted by the community,
as well as the various suggestions advanced
during the meeting, in order to report these

BAHA't PROCEDURE
to the Spiritual Assembly for its considera-
ation.
Whatever action the Assembly takes
is to be reported at a later Nineteen Day
Feast.
Matters of a personal nature should be
brought to the Spiritual Assembly and not
to the community at the Nineteen Day Feast.
Concerning the attitude with which believers
should come to these Feasts, the Master has
said, "You must free yourselves from every-
thing that is in your hearts, before you en-
ter." (Baha'i News Letter of the N. S. A. of
Germany and Austria, December, 1934.)
B. The annual Meeting on April 21, called
for the election of the Spiritual Assembly,
provides the occasion for the presentation of
annual reports by the Assembly and by all
its Committees.
The Chairman of the outgoing Assembly
presides at this meeting.
The Order of Business includes: Reading
of the call of the meeting, reading of ap-
propriate Baha'i passages bearing upon the
subject of the election, appointment of tel-
lers, distribution of ballots, prayers for the
spiritual guidance of the voters, the election,
presentation
of annual reports, tellers' re-
port of the election, approval of the tellers'
report.
C. The Annual Meeting for the election of
Convention delegate (or delegates) is like-
wise presided over by the Assembly Chair-
man, and except for the annual reports the
Order of Business is similar to that observed
at the meeting held each April 21. It is pre-
ferable for the Spiritual Assembly to arrange
a special meeting for the election of dele-
gates, and not hold this election during the
consultation period of a Nineteen Day Feast.
D. In addition to these occasions for gen-
eral consultation, the Spiritual Assembly is
to give consultation to individual believers
whenever requested.
During such consultation with individual
believers, the Assembly should observe the
following principles: the impartiality of each
of its members with respect to all matters
under discussion ; the freedom of the indi-
vidual Baha'i to express his views, feelings
and recommendations on any matter affect-
ing the interests of the Cause, the confiden-
tial character of this consultation, and the
principle that the Spiritual Assembly does
not adopt any resolution, or make any final
decision, until the party or parties have with-
drawn from the meeting.
Appeals from decisions of a local Spiritual
Assembly are provided for in the By-Laws
and the procedure fully described in a state-
ment published in Baha'i News, February,
1933, and reprinted in this work.
SECTION TWO, SHEET 7
When confronted with evidences of un-
happiness, whether directed against the As-
sembly or against members of the commu-
nity, the Spiritual Assembly should realize
that its relationship to the believers is not
merely that of a formal constitutional body
but also that of a spiritual institution called
upon to manifest the attributes of courtesy,
patience and loving insight.
Many condi-
tions are not to be remedied by the exercise
of power and authority but rather by a sym-
pathetic understanding of the sources of the
difficulty in the hearts of the friends.
As
'Abdu'l-Baha
has explained, some of the
people are children and must be trained,
some are ignorant and must be educated,
some are sick and must be healed.
Where,
however, the problem is not of this order but
represents flagrant disobedience and disloy-
alty to the Cause itself, in that case the As-
sembly should consult with the National
Spiritual Assembly concerning the necessity
for disciplinary action.
Members of the Baha'i community, for
their part, should do their utmost by prayer
and meditation to remain always in a posi-
tive and joyous spiritual condition, bearing
in mind the Tablets which call upon Baha'is
to serve the world of humanity and not waste
their
precious energies in negative com-
plaints.
IV. BAHA't ANNIVERSA-
RIES, FESTIVALS AND
DAYS OF FASTING
The Spiritual Assembly, among its vari-
ous duties and responsibilities, will provide
for the general observance by the local com-
munity of the following Holy Days:
Feast
of Ridvan
(Declaration
of Ba-
ha'u'llah) April 21-May 2, 1863.
Declaration of the Bab, May 23, 1844.
Ascension of Baha'u'llah, May 29, 1892.
Martyrdom of the Bab, July 9, 1850.
Birth of the Bab, October 20, 1819.
Birth of Baha'u'llah, November 12, 1817.
Day of the ,Covenant, November 26.
Ascension of 'Abdu'l-Baha, November 28,
1921.
Period of the Fast, nineteen days begin-
ning March 2.
Feast of Naw-Ruz (Baha'i New Year)
March 21.-N.
8. A.

BAHA't PROCEDURE
DUTIES AND OBLIGA-
TIONS OF A LOCAL
SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY
From By-Laws Approved by
the Guardian
Article III-The
Spiritual
Assembly, in
the fulfilment of its obligations and respon-
sibilities under this Corporation, shall have
exclusive jurisdiction and authority over all
the local activities and affairs of the Baha'i
community of •the City of .........
, includ-
ing paramount authority in the administra-
tion of this Corporation.
It shall be respon-
sible for maintaining the integrity and ac-
curacy of all Baha'i teaching, whether writ-
ten or oral, undertaken throughout the local
community.
It shall make available the pub-
lished literature of the Faith.
It shall rep-
resent the community in its relations to the
National Spiritual Assembly, in its relation
to the Guardian of the Baha'i Faith, to
other local Baha'i communities, and to the
general public in the City of .....
' . . . . It
shall be charged with the recognition of all
applicants
requesting
membership
in the
local Baha'i community.
It shall pass upon
the right of any and all members of the com-
munity whose membership is in question to
retain their status as voting members of the
community.
It shall call the meetings of the
community, including the Baha'i Anniver-
saries and Feasts, the meetings of consulta-
tion, the Annual Meeting and the meeting
for the election of delegates to the Annual
Meeting of the National Spiritual Assembly.
It shall appoint and supervise all commit-
tees of the Baha'i community.
It shall col-
lect and disburse all funds intended for the
maintenance
of this Corporation.
It shall
have full and complete custody of the head-
quarters or meeting place of the Baha'i com-
munity. It shall report to the National Spirit-
ual Assembly annually, or when requested,
the membership roll of the Baha'i commun-
ity, for the information and approval of the
national Baha'i body. The Spiritual Assem-
bly, however, shall recognize the authority
and right of the National Spiritual Assem-
bly to declare at any time what activities
and affairs of the Baha'i community of the
City of . . . . . . . . . are national in scope and
hence subject to the jurisdiction of the na-
tional Baha'i body.
It shall likewise recog-
nize the right of any member of the com-
munity to appeal to the National Spiritual
Assembly for review and decision of any
matter in which the previous decision of the
local Spiritual Assembly is felt by the mem-
ber to be contrary to the explicit teachings
SECTION TWO, SHEET 8
of the Baha'i Faith or opposed to its best
interests.
It shall, on the other hand, have
the authority and right to appeal from the
decision of the National Assembly to the
Guardian of the Faith for review and final
decision of any matter related to the Faith
in the City of ........
.
Article IV-The
Spiritual
Assembly, in
administering
this Corporation,
shall ever
bear in mind the ideals upheld in the Sacred
Writings of the Baha'i Faith respecting the
relationships of a Spiritual Assembly to its
Baha'i community, respecting the relations
of Baha'is to one another in the community,
and the relationships of Baha'is to all non-
Baha'is, without prejudice of race, creed,
class or nationality.
The Assembly shall
therefore rubove all recognize its sacred duty
to maintain full and complete unity through-
out the Baha'i community, to relieve and
comfort the sick and distressed, to assist the
poor and destitute, to protect the orphans,
the crippled and the aged, to educate the chil-
dren of Baha'is according to the highest re-
ligious and intellectual standards, to compose
differences and disagreements among mem-
bers of the community, to promulgate the
principles of Divine Civilization revealed by
Baha'u'llah, and to promote in every way pos-
sible the Baha'i aim of the oneness of man-
kind.
It shall faithfully and devotedly up-
hold the general Baha'i activities and affairs
initiated and sustained by the National Spir-
itual Assembly.
It shall cooperate whole-
heartedly with other local Spiritual Assem-
blies throughout North America in all mat-
ters declared by the National Spiritual As-
sembly to be of general Baha'i importance
and concern.
It shall rigorously
abstain
from any action or influence, direct or indi-
rect, that savors of intervention on the part
of a Baha'i body in matters of public poli-
tics and civil jurisdiction.
It shall encour-
age intercourse
between the Baha'i com-
munity of the City of . . . . . . . . . . and other
recognized Baha'i communities, issuing let-
ters of introduction to Baha'is traveling from
. . . . . . . . . and passing upon letters of intro-
duction issued by other Baha'i Assemblies.
It shall regard its authority as a means of
rendering service to Baha'is and non-Baha'is
and not as a source of arbitrary
power.
While retaining the sacred right of final de-
cision in all matters pertaining to the Ba-
ha'i community, the Spiritual Assembly shall
ever seek the advice and consultation of all
members of the community, keep the com-
munity informed of all its affairs, and invite
full and free discussion on the part of the
community of all matters affecting the Faith.
-N.S.A.

BAHA't PROCEDURE
THE INSTITUTION OF THE
SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY
For a period of more than ten years, a
large portion of our collective effort has been
devoted to the task of developing the insti-
tutions described in the Master's Will and
Testament and the subject matter of most of
the general communications issued by the
Guardian of the Faith.
At our present state of development there
appears to be a need for a more definite and
widespread understanding
of the institution
of a Spiritual Assembly as it affects its ?wn
members-as
it calls for a new and umque
loyalty on the part of its nine members to
the Assembly itself.
The National Spiritual
Assembly there-
fore takes the occasion to offer a few re-
marks on this phase of the subject, in the
hope that they will clarify this important
matter and assist the believers to appreciate
the firm basis on which every local and Na-
tional Assembly must rest if it is to fulfil
its responsibility to the Cause.
It is necessary to bear in mind the fact
that the Spiritual Assembly is not a body
created by the believers, even though iby their
votes at elections they determine its member-
ship.
The institution itself was created by
Baha'u'llah.
Unlike the institutions
set up
,by a democracy, whose functions and powers
are strictly defined by the people, with a defi-
nite reservation of certain rights to the body
of the citizens-including
the right to annul
the constitution and adopt an entirely new
political charter-a
Spiritual Assembly rests
upon sanctions higher than that of the vot-
ing community. Its functions and powers are
unalterable.
The responsibility of its mem-
bers is not to the electorate but to the higher
authority resident in the Cause.
This general principle has brought into
being the necessity for a definite loyalty on
the part of all Assembly members to the in-
stitution
which collectively they compose.
They are trustees of its duties, responsibili-
ties, rights and powers, and not merely rep-
resentatives
of the community nor of any
party or faction thereof.
In meeting this
obligation to the Assembly itself, the mem-
bers can have utmost confidence that they
are rendering the fullest and truest service
to the body of the believers concerned.
It is important to note that upon the Ba-
ha'i electors themselves there rests a special
responsibity in relation to the election. Thus,
in describing the functions of Convention
delegates, Shoghi Effendi declared that they
should cast their ballots for none save those
whom prayer and meditation inspire them
SECTION TWO, SHEET 9
to believe are possessed of certain qualities :
"unquestioned
loyalty, selfless devotion, a
well trained mind, recognized ability, ma-
ture experience."
The efficiency and in-
tegrity of a Spiritual Assembly, therefore,
depends upon the degree to which, in every
Baha'i election, the believers conscientiously
meet the Guardian's standard.
The Declaration of Trust and By-Laws
afford a procedure controlling to a certain
extent the methods which should be carried
out by members of a Spiritual Assembly in
performing their duties at meetings.
It is
clear, for example, that decisions are made
by unanimous vote, but unanimity lacking,
by vote of the majority.
'Abdu'l-Baha re-
vealed a Tablet, quoted by the Guardian
2 in
one of his earliest general letters, emphatical-
ly commanding every member of an Assem-
bly to abide by its decisions. The teachings_
recognize no minority
rights
whatsoever
within the body of an Assembly.
Every de-
cision made by a Spiritual Assem:bly is bind-
ing upon each and all its members alike,
whatever their personal views, prior to the
final vote, may have been.
Two observations should be made in con-
nection with the process of consultation lead-
ing up to the decision.
First, that during
the consultation it is not merely the right
but the sacred duty of each member to ex-
press his or her opinion fully and freely,
for only through a true consensus of opinion
can all aspects of a question be thoroughly
explored.
Secondly, that the termination of
the period of consultation and the taking of
the vote, is a matter which the majority can
decide. The right to express one's view fully
and freely does not imply the power to pro-
long the consultation indefinitely and to the
point of stubbornness.
The majority can di-
rect the chairman to bring the matter to vote
whenever it is conscientiously felt that all
views have been presented and further dis-
cussion would be useless repetition or one-
sided argument.
Without this clear right
vested in the majority,
the capacity of a
Spiritual Assembly to transact the business
before it would be fatally limited.
The opinion is sometimes expressed that
Spiritual Assemblies are too prone to main-
tain an attitude of secrecy and aloofness, in
violation of the sacred unity of the Cause.
1 See "Baha'i Administration,"
page 79.
• "If after discussion, a decision be carried unani-
mously, well and good; but if, the Lord forbid,
differences of opinion should arise, a majority
of
voices must prevail ....
It is again not permitted
that any one of the honored members object to or
censure, whether in or out of the meeting, any de-
cision arrived
at previously,
though that
decision
be not right, for such criticism would prevent any
decision from being enforced."
See "Baha'i
Ad-
ministration,"
pages 21, 22, 23.

BAHA't PROCEDURE
This opinion requires clear analysis, if
Assemblies are to avoid going from one ex-
treme attitude to the other, in each case fail-
ing to attain the true balance.
What is and must he preserved inviolate
from mere gossip and rumor are the per-
sonal views expressed by the members on
any matter before the vote is taken.
If any
member of an Assembly leaves a meeting
and expresses criticism of the attitude ex-
pressed by any other member in the period
of full and free consultation, this is destruc-
tive of the spirit of mutual confidence and
trust which must ,be maintained by every
Assembly, and can but lead to disunity and a
weakening of .its capacity for service to the
Cause.
So long as a member who had ex-
pressed one opinion is willing to abide by the
result of unanimous or majority vote, there
is no ground of criticism in that his opinion,
prior to the vote, was different from that
established by the vote.
A Spiritual Assembly is an institution and
not merely nine believers who happen to hold
office. The great obligations and duties laid
upon that institution
are superior to any
rights assumed by some of its members.
Within its sphere of jurisdiction,
as the
Guardian has said, a Spiritual Assembly has
undivided authority.
The difference between secrecy and trust-
worthiness is again exemplified when we con-
sider the important subject of conferences
held by a Spiritual Assembly with individual
members of the community.
If the believers
find by experience that they cannot bring
personal matters to an Assembly without
having rumor and gossip immediately circu-
late throughout the community, such a con-
dition is a serious charge for which that As-
sembly cannot escape responsibility.
As the
Cause develops, each Assembly will increas-
ingly be called upon to deal with certain mat-
ters of a personal and confidential nature,
and the time has surely come when a firm
f oundatiori of trustworthiness
should be laid.
Matters of a general nature coming before
a Spiritual Assembly should ibe reported to
the community at each Nineteen Day Feast.
It should be readily possible for an Assembly
to determine what matters are confidential,
and of the nature of a trust, and what mat-
ters concern the Cause and are of interest
and importance to the entire Baha'i com-
munity.
When a matter is recorded as con-
fidential each member should scrupulously
preserve it as such.
When a matter is re-
corded otherwise, it should be reported in
the form recorded in the minutes and by
whatever officer is designated to make the
report. Fran\ki discussion of these points, and
full agreement as to the conditions under
SECTION TWO, SHEET 10
which Assembly business is t.o be reported
outside the meeting, are obvious requisites to
the proper functioning of the institution.
Shoghi Effendi has written that the admin-
istrative order of the Faith is still in a con-
dition of infancy.
This may be fully recognized and admitted,
but the condition of infancy is not intended
to be perpetual.
Great blessings will, we are
assured, be released when the Baha'i institu-
tions develop t.o the point of internal unity
and of harmonious relations to the commun-
ity.
The privilege of contributing to the
steady evolution of those institutions which
are the "pattern and nucleus" of the World
Order of Baha'u'llah is granted to every be-
liever, but more especially to those to whom
have been given positions of responsibility
and trust.
If members of Spiritual Assem-
blies will attain trustworthiness,
and exhibit
an individual and collective attitude showing
forth both knowledge of the Teachings and
scrupulous obedience to them, the long-await-
ed and long prayed-for renaissance of public
teaching, and vital growth in the Cause, will
surely follow, as day follows night.
The fact that a Spiritual Assembly is an
institution
independent of the will of the
electoral body does not in any way sanction
the spirit of aloofness and separation from
the community.
On the contrary, it means
that the Assembly is left entirely free to
seek divine guidance for all its deliberations
and decisions, and has been given a truly
Providential opportunity to serve the com-
munity as a whole. An Assembly, it must
be repeated again and again, is not the crea-
ture or servant of any limited group or fac-
tion.
Quite irrespective of how the various
members of the community might have cast
their ballots for members of the Assembly,
the Assembly once elected has an impartial
relationship of service to the welfare of the
Cause in its city or nation.
No institution
in human history has ever rested upon a
foundation so impregnable to the assaults of
ambition, pride, self-interest, envy and mal-
ice, whether from without or within.
A Spiritual Assembly, raised above per-
sonal emotion and touched with a vision of
divine justice, becomes an indestructible link
in the chain of peace, economic stability and
progress which the Supreme Manifestation
has forged for the protection of mankind.
Much has been offered to, much will be re-
quired from, all who are elected to member-
ship in such an institution.-N.
S. A.
"THE SACRED BASIC PRIN-
CIPLES OF BAHA'U'LLAH"
"/ f thou desirest to be confirmed in the

BAHA't PROCEDURE
service of the Kingdom of God, live in accord
with the teachings of Baha'u'llah, and that
is: real love for the world of humanity, and
the utmost kindness for the believers of God.
This real love, like unto the magnetic power,
attracts the Divine c.onfirmations."-('AB-
DU'L-BAHA.)
We realize the vital im1>0rtance-in these
early days when the concept of the Baha'i
World Order is gradually penetrating
into
the thought and knowledge of all types and
classes of world thinkers-of
preserving in-
tact the sacred basic principles of Baha'u'l-
lah, fortifying them against compromise, and
demonstrating
to the world that there are
truly divine remedies for the spiritual and
mental diseases of the body politic.
Among
these great principles, two stand out pre-
eminently at this time as essential to the suc-
cessful establishment of the Baha'i Cause in
the West.
Each of these two :principles is
supplementary to the other, and the failure
or weakening of one can seriously, if not dan-
gerously, affect the application of the other.
These two principles are like unto the body
and soul itself, neither of which is capable
of performing its true function without the
ever-present assistance of the other.
(1)
The administrative order (one of the
two principles ref erred to), is the indispensa-
ble instrumentality
through which the glor-
ious spirit of the Baha'i Cause finds expres-
sion. This spirit, in turn, is the second prin-
ciple referred to.
Should we build up the
administrative
world order to a point of ab-
solute perfection but at the same time allow
it to be hampered or disconnected from the
channels within, through which channels the
Holy Spirit of the Cause pours forth, we
would have nothing more than a perfected
body out of touch with and cut off from the
finer promptings of the soul or spirit.
If, on
the other hand, the influxes and goings forth
of the spirit are scattered, diffused and sub-
jected wholly to the more or less imperfect
guidance and interpretation
of individual be-
lievers, lacking both the wisdom secured
through consultation and also the lights of
• real unity which shine through cons\lltative
action and obedience thereto-a
disordered
and disorganized activity would be witnessed,
which would but dimly reflect the divine pur-
pose for this age, which is no less than the
estaJblishment of the reign of divine love,
justice and wisdom in the world, under and
in conformity to the Divine Law.
In short, such conditions would create
countless individual interpretations
and, in
the end, multitudinous sects and denomina-
tions, such as have been witnessed in the
former religions, each daiming to possess a
greater truth or guidance than any of the
SECTION TWO, SHEET 11
others.
It is manifest, therefore, that neither one
of these two great principles is sufficient unto
itself but must be comb1ned into an ordered
unity, each perfectly supplementary
to the
other and neither permitted to interpose any
rigid barriers to the proper functioning of
the other.
In the body of man, which is the true di-
vine example or parallel, the spirit, when in
ideal control of all the lesser parts of the or-
ganism, finds the utmost harmony through-
out the whole body-each
part is in perfect
reciprocity with the other parts.
The com-
mands and impulses of the spirit are obeyed
by the body and the body in turn in its ac-
tions and function identifies and determines
the expression the spiritual impulses shall
take.
This is divine unity-and
this law
being universal and found in every created
object in the universe, has full application
to the universal Baha'i organism made up of
believers everywhere, which has been estab-
lished by the Manifestation of God.
Therefore,
we would emphasize, it be-
hooves all of us-all
Assemblies and all be-
lievers generally-if
we would render the
highest service to the Divine Cause in our
generation, not only to realize but to apply
in our Baha'i service the most perfect co-
ordination and unification of these two great
principles in every Baha'i contact, whether
in the :processes of consultation or in our mu-
tual dealings with each other.
(2)
·Abdu'l-Baha
once said that
the
American people because of the system of
partisan politics developed an individualism
which made it very difficult for them to take
counsel together and abide by the results
of that counsel. The interruptions of govern-
mental process through the necessities of
elections and destructive criticisms by mem-
bers of one party of the other party, had
created a condition wherein true consultation
was well-nigh unknown.
We know that the
Master's criticism was only too true.
(3)
The Baha'i administration
is a most
advanced step forward toward the elimina-
tion of this condition.
The National Spirit-
ual Assembly stands squarely behind every
essential element of Baha'i administration,
but while no relaxation should be suffered in
the application of the administrative
princi-
ples at any time, we deem it to be doubly im-
portant, in these days when this divine meth-
od of dealing with religious problems is be-
coming rooted in American institutions, that
those coordinate elements which have been
so emphasized by our Guardian in connection
with the administration
should be most con-
scientiously applied.
We would refer for a
moment to the need of having ever in mind

BAHA't PROCEDURE
the in--dwelling spirit of the administration,
which is the real life and purpose of Ba-
ha'u'llah's revelation, and is, in reality, the
effulgence of the Holy Spirit, itself. Without
this Spirit, reflected in every administrative
act, the body of the administration
becomes
rigid, opaque and lifeless, for the Sun of Di-
vine Love finds no responsive mirror upon
which to reflect its life-giving rays.
This
Holy Spirit is the greatest bestowal of God
in this age, and for this, the Founders of the
Cause, and the martyred believers, endured
countless afflictions at the hands of a world
that knew not this holy potency.
In every
administrative act, this Spirit should illumine
and warm the believers who are affected. On
Page 19 of Baha'i Administration,
Shoghi
Effendi says we are expected "to obliterate
as much as possible all traces of censure, of
conflicting discussion, of cooling remarks, of
petty unnecessary observations that impede
the onward march of the Cause, that damp
the zeal of the firm believer and detract from
the sublimity of the Baha'i Cause in the eyes
of the inquirer."
On page 22, quoting from
the words of 'Abdu'l-Baha, our Guardian
draws our attention to these words, referring
to members of Assemblies-
"They must in every matter search out the
truth and not insist upon their own opinion,
for stubboo-nness and persistence in one's
views will lead rultimately to discord and
wrangling and the truth will remain hidden.
The honored members must with all freedom
express their own thoughts, and it is in no
wise permissible for one to belittle the
thought of another. Should the least trace
of estrangement prevail, the result shall be
darkness upon darkness."
Again on Page 30, quoting from 'Abdu'l-
Baha, it is stated-
"lt behooveth the loved ones of God to be
enamored of one another and to sacrifice
themselves for their fellow-workers in the
Cause. They should yearn towards one an-
other even as the sore athirst yearneth for
the Water of Life, and the lover burneth to
meet his heart's desire."
On Page 33, our Guardian says, in speak-
ing of .Spir.itual Assemblies-
"They must endeavor to promote amity
and concord amongst the friends, efface ev-
ery lingering trace of distrust, coolness and
estrangement from every heart, and secure
in its stead an active and wholehearted co-
operation for the service of the Cause."
On Page 36, he warns us against extreme
orthodoxy on one hand, and irresponsible
freedom on the other, lest these cause it ("the
Cause") to deviate from the Straight Path
which alone can lead it to success.
As bearing upon this delicate balance that
SECTION TWO, SHEET 12
must be maintained, which we referred to
in the opening paragraphs of this letter, our
Guardian on Page 54 tells us-
"At the very root of the Cause lies the
principle of the undoubted right of the indi-
vidual to self-expression, his freed om to de-
clare his conscience and set forth his views."
And again-
"Let us also bear in mind that the keynote
of the Cause of God is not dictatorial author-
ity but humble fellowship, not arbitrary
power, but the spirit of frank and loving con-
sultation. Nothing short of the spirit of a
true Baha'i can hope to reconcile the prin-
ciples of mercy and justice, of freedom and
submission, of the sanctity of the right of
the individual and of self-surrender, of vigil-
ance, discretion and prudence on rthe one
hand, and fellowship, candor and courage
on the other."
And as to the duties of elected representa-
tives, he says, on Page 55-
"They should approach their task with ex-
treme humility, and endeavor, by their open-
mindedness, their high sense of justice and
duty, their candor, their modesty, their en-
tire devotion to the welfare and interests of
the friends, the Cause, and humanity-to
win, not only the confidence and the genuine
support and respect of those whom they
serve, but also their esteem and real aff ec-
tion. They must, at all times, avoid the spirit
of exclusiveness, the atmosphere of secrecy,
free themselves from a domineering attitude,
and banish all forms of prejudice and passion
from their deliberations. They should, with-
in the limits of wise discretion, take the
friends into their confidence, acquaint them
with their plans, share with them their prob-
lems and anxieties, and seek their advice and
counsel."
We are quoting these several references
as a reminder and aid to all established As-
semblies, since various problems are found
to a greater or lesser degree in various cen-
ters.
These injunctions and their observance
constitute the divine remedy as applied to
the internal
affairs •Of our administrative
processes, and we are assured that their due
application will open the paths of harmony,
happiness and the successful advance of the
Cause in the western world.
( 4)
Our Guardian's letters on adminis-
tration are replete with clear and unmistak-
able references to the authority and juris-
diction which rests in every local Assembly
over the affairs of the Cause in its vicinity.
Every believer who is a member of a local
Baha'i community is under a paramount
spiritual duty to cooperate in his or her Ba-
ha'i activities with the duly expressed deci,.
sions of a Spiritual Assembly.
The para-

BAHA't PROCEDURE
mount obligation of every individual believer
is to maintain unity.
It is the obligation of
a believer in a community to •bring any mat-
ters of complaint or misunderstanding
first
• to his Local Assembly.
The believers on
their part will realize that the law of God
is a just law, and that in this day, it has ex-
tended its provisions to every important mat-
ter.
Thus, not only is every individual be-
liever entitled to the right of electoral fran-
chise in the choice of his local Spiritual As-
sembly but also in cases where he feels ag-
grieved at the decision of a body, a right of
appeal to the National Spiritual Assembly is
provided.
Through these means, ultimate
justice is assured.
The whole fabric of Ba-
ha'i administration rests upon the acceptance
by the friends of the considered decisions of
their Local Assemblies, and this is the very
essence and root of the law of consultation
which Baha'u'llah has called us to obey. It
follows from this that there can be no such
thing as non-cooperation with an elected lo-
cal Assembly inasmuch as such a procedure
utterly def eats the central purpose of con-
sultation.
Any cause or causes, which might
otherwise tend to create an attitude of non-
cooperation on the part of a believer, should
be at once placed before the Local Assembly,
in the spirit of Baha'i frankness and trust-
meanwhile preserving full cooperation, and
awaiting the just decision of the Assembly.
Grievances when made a matter of appeal to
the National Assembly, following an adverse
decision of a Local Assembly, should have a
substantial
basis, affecting the welfare of
the Cause, and should be frankly and definite-
ly stated in writing, and sent to the Na-
tional Secretary.
(5)
These matters ,now being defined,
and assuring you that the National Spiritual
Assembly will defend and safeguard to every
necessary extent these vital requisites of Ba-
ha'i life-we
would point out to Assemblies
our feeling that one of their essential duties
during periods of confusion and unrest, such
as the present, is to win the confidence and
loyalty of every declared believer. We would
urge you this year* especially to make it
your paramount obligation, individually and
collectively, to show an attitude of love, com-
passion
and of happiness
and harmony
toward the beloved of God, without excep-
tion.
We feel that Baha'i administration
in
no sense affords any excuse to confuse the
element of loyalty to the representative
bo-
dies with irritating
discourtesies or an over-
bearing disposition, or a negative, cold and
slighting attitude, under any circumstances,
• on the part of the Assembly itself.
* 1930.
SECTION TWO, SHEET 13
(6)
Any failure of either of the two ,prin-
ciples first alluded to, whether firmness in
the administration or a lack of the spirit of
Baha'i love, fellowship and happiness
in
carrying out the measures of the administra-
tion, can only serve to prolong and confuse
the solution of such a problem as we have
encountered.
The true
balance
between
these two principles must ;be invariably found
before such a ,problem or, for that matter,
any other problem can be efficiently and
promptly settled.
Otherwise, justice finds
defeat, and needless suffering results.
It is certain that this experience has had
its value in a better understanding of all fac-
tors which must be considered in dealing
with the greater problems that will confront
the Cause in the future.
It is doubtless too
much to expect that any Assembly, whether
National or Local, in this early dawn of the
establishment
of the Baha'i World Order,
with the added factor of the necessity of edu-
cating and informing the whole body of be-
lievers, could hope to solve complex problems
with the utmost simplicity and expedition.
(7)
It is our ardent hope that from this
hour, the bonds of true union, fellowship and
an ever-increasing
harmony and happiness
will be consciously realized in our common
problems, and that the National Spiritual As-
sembly, together with all the local represen-
tative bodies in the west and the great body
of believers in every section will, in the
words of our Guardian "form one united
front and combat wisely and tactfully every
force that might darken the spirit of the
Movement, cause division in its ranks and
narrow it by dogmatic and sectarian belief."
Let us take home to our hearts, anew, this
following picture of reality our Guardian
has given us, which affirms the presence of
God in the Kingdom He is establishing-to
a world that has labored vainly to reduce
Him to a mere shadow.
Our Guardian
says:-
"Are we to doubt that the ways of God
are not necessarily the ways of man? Is not
faith but another word for implicit obedi-
ence, whole-hearted allegiance, uncompromis-
ing adherence to that which we believe is
the revealed and expressed will of God, how-
ever ·perplexing it might first appear, how-
ever at variance with the shadowy views, the
impotent doctrines, the crude theories, the
idle imaginings, the fashionable conceptions
of a transient and troublous age? If we are
to falter or hesitate, if our love for Him
should fail to direct us and keep us within
His path, if we desert Divine and emphatic
principles, what hope can we any more cher-
ish for healing the ills and sicknesses of this
world?"

BAHA'1 PROCEDURE
We cannot close this statement without ap-
pealing to all the beloved of God to renew,
in this critical period of humanity's history,
the altar flame of Divine love in each indi-
vidual heart; to cleanse the chamber of the
soul for His indwelling; to ever remember
that God is concerned with the redemption
of the wandering and straying sheep, and to
show forth to all such the wondrous power
of His Love and Generosity; holding fast
to the divine principles without compromise
or deviation, but making our service a bene-
diction and a blessing to every inquirer and
needy one, and demonstrating
the security
of our faith by the evidences of happiness,
serenity and the bestowals of the Holy Spir-
it. This is the hour for a new and unprece-
dented delivery of the Great Message.
Let.
us fortify our efforts by now realigning our
nucleus, rank upon rank, in the bonds of the
Divine Unity, each to each.-N.
S. A.
OBLIGATION TO FORM A
SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY
Shoghi Effendi feels that in any locality
where the number of adult believers reaches
nine, a Local Assembly should be established.
He feels this to be an obligation rather than
a purely voluntary act. Only in exceptional
cases has the National Spiritual Assembly
the right to postpone the formation of an
Assembly if it feels that the situation does
not warrant such a formation.
This right,
however, should be exercised if the situation
absolutely demands it.
As to the principle
according to which the area of the jurisdic-
tion of a Local Assembly is to be determined,
he feels this to 1be the function of the Na-
tional Spiritual Assembly; whatever princi-
ple they uphold should be fairly applied to
all localities without any distinction what-
ever.-SH0GHI
EFFENDI.
For the future, the election of new Spirit-
ual Assemblies by members of local groups
which contain nine or more recognized be-
lievers is to be conducted in the light of the
following procedure adopted by the National
Spiritual Assembly.
"It was moved, seconded and voted to
adopt and record the following ruling in
order to prevent confusion on the part of new
Baha'i communities, that hereafter applica-
tions from Baha'i groups for election of a
Spiritual Assembly must be made directly to
the National Assembly not later than Febru-
ary first of any year, in order to allow time
for this body to discharge its responsibility
in preparing the group."
Groups having exactly nine declared be-
lievers establish a Spiritual
Assembly by
joint declaration, using a special form pro-
SECTION TWO, SHEET 14
vided by the N. S. A. for that purpose. Those
having more than nine elect the Assembly by
secret ballot, and report the election on the
form issued to all Assemblies prior to April
21.-N.
S. A.
Regarding the formation of local Assem-
blies, the Guardian does not advise any de-
parture from the principle that every civil
community should have its own independent
Assembly.-SHOGHI
EFFENDI.
(In answer to the question whether, in the
case of a new Assembly, the membership of
the community could reside in two or more
adjoining civil communities.)
INCORPORATION OF
LOCAL ASSEMBLY
It is surely very important to give to the
Local Spiritual Assemblies some legal stand-
ing, for as the Cause progresses and its ad-
herents increase, they will be confronted
with duties they cannot even imagine at pres-
ent.
Not only will they have to make con-
tracts for acquiring halls for their meeting
place, but also they will be obliged to create
new institutions to care for their sick, poor
and aged people. We hope that before long
the Bahais will even (be able to) afford to
have schools that would provide the children
the intellectual and spiritual education as
prescribed in the writings of Baha'u'llah and
the Master.
For such duties that will naturally devolve
upon the Local Spiritual Assemblies there
will be an increasing need for a legal stand-
ing.
They will have to be considered as a
legal person with the power of making ibind-
ing contracts.
In small centers where the friends are
still few, the taking of such steps is rather
premature and may add to the complexity of
Baha'i administration.-SHOGHI
EFFENDI.
The National Spiritual Assembly has voted
to publish in Baha'i News the statement that
local Assemblies are advised to engage ex-
pert legal assistance in adapting the local
By-Laws to the Religious Statutes of their
particular
State; and also that meanwhile
the National Assembly feels it advisable and
necessary for all local Assemblies without
exception to abide by the set of By-Laws
approved by the Guardian.
Local Assemblies are to submit to the Na-
tional Assembly for final approval their plans
for local incorporation before the legal action
is consummated.
The Legal Committee of the National
Spiritual Assembly, in passing upon the suffi-
ciency of the incorporation papers of a local
Spiritual Assembly, desires to impress upon
all local Assemblies contemplating local in-

BAHA't PROCEDURE
corporation that a copy of the State statute
under which the corporation
is being set
up, should be, in all cases, forwarded to the
National Spiritual Assembly with the pro-
posed incorporation papers.
Consideration and approval of any local
incorporation
papers cannot be completed
without such copies of the State law.-N.
S.
A.
ANNUAL ELECTION
Until further notice, the annual meeting
called on April 21 for the election of the
local Spiritual Assembly is to rbe conducted
by the officers of the outgoing Assembly and
not by officers elected by those present at
this meeting.
It has also been voted to record the deci-
sion that in the election of the National and
local Assemblies, when the result of the
ballot is that eight members are elected but
two or more believers are tied for the ninth
membership, the second ballot taken to elimi-
nate the tie vote must be limited to voting
for one of the two or more names who hap-
pen to have received a tie vote for the ninth
place.
Members of a local community have the
right to the local membership list at local
elections.
The list can be prepared alpha-
betically, and copies handed out for use only
during the period of balloting.
When a believer is admitted into member-
ship in a Baha'i community, he thereby re-
ceives all the rights, privileges and duties
of Baha'i membership, and it is for the Spir-
itual Assembly to postpone the admission of
applicants until they have familiarized each
applicant with the members of the commun-
ity.
In other words, it is part of the teach-
ing responsibility
of a local Assembly to
make applicants acquainted with their fellow
believers.
Otherwise a new 1believer is un-
able to use his voting right intelligently.-
N. S.A.
Concerning the institution of new Assem-
blies, Shoghi Effendi believes that the pres-
ent form of the By-laws which considers
April 21 as the only date on any year, though
it has some disadvantages, yet as a whole is
better than otherwise.
One year of experi-
ence will better enable it to participate
in
the important
national
(Baha'i)
affairs.
Then there will be a sort of uniformity
throughout the Baha'i world.-SH0GHI
EF-
FENDI.
ASSEMBLY MEMBERS TO
ATTEND MEETINGS
When a member or officer of a local Spirit-
ual Assembly cannot function for an indefi-
nite period, ai:ld there is no certainty of re-
SECTION TWO, SHEET 15
turn to service, the Assembly should recog-
nize the vacancy and arrange a meeting of
the community to elect a new member.-_
N. S. A.
He believes that your Assembly was well
advised in adopting such a ruling.
For it
is only too obvious that unless a member can
attend regularly the meetings of his local
Assembly, it would be impossible for him to
discharge the duties incumbent upon him,
and to fulfill his responsibilities, as a repre-
sentative of the community.
Membership
in a local Spiritual Assembly carries with it,
indeed, an obligation and capacity to remain
in close touch with local Baha'i activities,
and ability to attend regularly the session of
the Assembly.-SH0GHI
EFFENDI.
VOTING LIST
Hereafter the annual voting list furnished
by local Assemblies to the N. S. A. should be
accompanied by a separate list of all believers
transferred
to and from each Assembly.
It was moved, seconded and voted to rec-
ord in these Minutes as the consensus of opin-
ion of the National Assembly, that the re-
moval of voting members by local Assem-
blies should be made conditional upon prior
report to and recommendation by this body,
and that the removal of any believer from the
voting list does not involve passing upon
such person's spiritual status but only af-
fects his local relationship to the administra-
tive order of the Cause and that in the Guar-
dian alone is vested the right to pass upon
an individual's spiritual condition.-N.
S. A.
ADMITTANCE OF NEW
BELIEVERS
As regards the admittance of new members
into the different groups as declared Baha'is,
and the expulsion of any from the commun-
ity, Shoghi Effendi believes that the Assem-
blies should not act hurriedly.
They should
be wise and most considerate, otherwise they
can do much harm to the body of the Cause.
They should see to it that the new-comer is
truly conversant
with the teachings, and
when he e~resses
his belief in the revelation
of Baha'u'llah, knows what he is saying and
what are the duties he undertakes.
On the other hand when any person is ex-
pelled, the Assembly should not act hurried-
ly. There is a great spiritual responsibility
attached to the act. The Assemblies do not
have only rights against the individuals, they
have great duties also. They should act like
the good shepherd whom Christ mentions in
His well-known parable.
We also have the
example of the Master before us. The indi-

BAHA't PROCEDURE
vidual Baha'is were organic parts of His
spiritual being. What befell the least one of
the friends brought deep affliction and sor-
row to him also. If by chance one of them
erred he counselled him and increased His
love and affection, if the Master saw that
that friend is still stubbornly refusing to re-
form his ways, and that his living among the
other Baha'is endangered the spiritual life
of the rest, then He would expel him from
the group.
This should 1be the attitude of the
Assemblies toward the individuals. 'Thebest
criterion whereby you can measure the spirit-
ual attainment of an Assembly is the extent
its members feel themselves responsible for
the welfare of the group.
And perchance
they feel forced to deprive a person from his
vote it should be only to safeguard the rest
and not merely to inflict punishment.-
SHOGHI EFFENDI.
RESIDENTIAL REQUIRE-
MENT FOR NEW
ASSEMBLIES
When a Spiritual Assembly is dissolved by
reason of decrease in the membership of the
community, the same requirements
shall
come into operation before an Assembly can
again be elected, namely that the community
must consist of at least nine members resi-
dent within the civil limits of the city, town
or village; that the provision in the By-laws
allowing believers residing in out-lying dis-
tricts to apply for membership in a local Ba-
ha'i community pending the formation of an
Assembly in their own locality does not apply
at the time when a Baha'i community con-
venes for the election of a Spiritual Assembly
for the first time.-N.
S. A.
QUALIFICATIONS OF
MEMBERSHIP IN A BAHA't
COMMUNITY
On October 24, 1925, in response to a re-
quest for information on how Local Spiritual
Assemblies should determine the qualifica-
tions of those to be enrolled as voting mem-
bers of a Baha'i community, the Guardian
(Baha'i Administration,
page 81) gave the
following explanation : "Regarding the very
delicate and complex question of ascertaining
the qualifications of a true believer, I cannot
in this connection emphasize too strongly the
supreme necessity for the exercise of the
utmost discretion, caution and tact, whether
it ioe in deciding for ourselves as to who may
be regarded as a true believer or in disclos-
ing to the outside world such considerations
as may serve as a basis for such a decision. I
SECTION TWO, SHEET 16
would only venture to state very briefly and
as adequately as present circumstances per-
mit the principal factors that must be taken
into consideration before deciding whether a
person may be regarded as a true believer
or not. Full recognition of the station of the
Forerunner,
the Author, and the True Ex-
emplar of the Baha'i Cause, as set forth in
'Abdu'l-Baha's Testament; unreserved accep-
tance of, and submission to, whatsover has
been revealed by their Pen ; loyal and stead-
fast adherenee to every clause of our Be-
loved's sacred Will; and close association
with the spirit as well as the form of the pre-
sent day Baha'i administration
throughout
the world-these
I conceive to be the funda-
mental and primary considerations that must
be fairly, discreetly and thoughtfully ascer-
tained before reaching such a vital decision.
Any attempt at further analysis and elucida-
tion will, I fear, land us in barren discus-
sions and even grave
controversies
that
would prove not only futile but even detri-
mental to the best interests of a growing
Cause. I would therefore strongly urge those
who are called upon to make such a decision
to approach this highly involved and ever-
recurring problem with the spirit of humble
prayer, and earnest consultation, and to re-
frain from drawing rigidly the line of de-
marcation except on such occasions when
the interests of the Cause absolutely demand
it."
With the adoption of the Declaration of
Trust, which required some clear definition
whereby the National Assembly might estab-
lish the status of voting members of the local
communities, the problem of applying the
Guardian's standard became one of the most
important
duties of a Spiritual Assembly.
That this problem is 1being considered very
seriously is evident from the number of in-
quiries which have come to the National
Assembly for specific instructions on method
and procedure.
It is evident that if the Guardian's stan-
dard is too rigidly applied, a community will
be choked and stifled, while if it is too
loosely applied, the result will be to make
a Baha'i community lose its distinctive char-
acter, its spiritual integrity, its very reason
for existence.
For some months the members of the Na-
tional Assembly have given special thought
to this subject, in the hope that it might be
found possible to lay before all Local As-
semblies some statement in the form of sug-
gestions
and recommendations
that
will
,prove useful to their members in meeting
what the Guardian has termed a "very deli-
cate and complex question."
.
• First of all, we feel, should be emphasized

BAHA't PROCEDURE
the fact that the enrollment of new voting
members is the function of a Spiritual As-
sembly as a whole. Such a matter cannot
be left to one or more members, or be met
by passively accepting the endorsement of
a teacher, no matter how well-informed and
loyal the teacher may be.
The act of passing upon the qualifications
of one who seeks enrollment surely involves
consultation, the distinctive attribute
of a
Spiritual
Assembly, followed by decision
representing unanimous or at least majority
vote. The members of an Assembly asstHrle
no higher responsibility than in determining
the character of their community by con-
trolling its new growth. In admitting a new
voting member, they recognize and affirm
his or her right to be eligible to every office
in the Cause. Since those elected delegates
to the Convention elect the members of the
National Assembly, and since later on the
National Assembly will be one of the elec-
toral bodies constituting
the International
House of Justice (see Article I, By-Laws of
the National Spiritual Assembly), the degree
of this responsibility is manifest.
The question has 1been raised as to whether
a Spiritual Assembly may not most effec-
tively meet this responsibility by having the
applicant sign an application blank which
sets forth the exact qualifications of mem-
bership.
The question has also been raised as to
whether it would not 1be well to lay down a
definite period of time-for
example, a year
___.before an Assembly can act upon an ap-
plication after it is received.
Both these suggestions are admirable; but
the National Assembly is not yet prepared to
adopt any standardized system. The Gau~
is too new and inexperienced to justify such
an important step at this time. The chief
requisite is that each Local Assembly shall
possess sufficient insight to discriminate be-
tween those who are qualified to serve in the
Cause and those not qualified to serve. The
Master has warned us that the time will
come when hyprocrites will seek to enter
the Cause in order to work destruction, con-
sequently it is the capacity of the Spiritual
Assembly in each case, and not the operation
of any standardized
system of enrollment,
which stands as the safeguard against such
invasion.
One requirement, however, the National
Assembly does lay down at this time: that
Local Assemblies shall read to applicants the
qualifications of voting membership as de-
fined in the By-Laws, and record in their
minutes the full and complete acceptance by
each applicant. This appears to be the irre-
ducible minimum of procedure in the admis-
SECTION TWO, SHEET 17
sion of new voting members. In reporting
new members to the National Assembly,
Local Assembly Secretaries are requested to
swbmit, in each case, an extract from the
minutes proving that this procedure has
been followed.
The essence of the matter sems to 1be that
each Assembly is called upon faithfully to
stand as witness that the spirit of the person
seeking membership has turned to Baha'u'-
llah and become quickened for life in His
Cause. Quality, and not numerical quantity,
must ever determine the power of a Baha'i
community.
Therefore we are not a board of examin-
ers on the one hand nor a mere committee of
welcome on the other. The qualifications do
not imply that the applicant must please us
personally, nor satisfy our human ideas as
to whom we would like to associate with in
Baha'i service. The qualifications have come
from the Manifestation Himself: to the de-
gree that we are ourselves true Baha'is, we
can determine who else is likewise a true
Baha'i.
The National Assembly has been vested
with the responsibility of passing upon local
membership rolls, and thus in cases where a
Local Assemofy has clearly been in error in
enrolling a member, the mistake can be cor-
rected and the matter transferred to a Baha'i
body not affected by exclusively local condi-
tions.
Being charged with this ultimate respon-
sibility, the National Assembly feels great
concern that all the Local Assemblies f unc-
tion as wisely as possible in carrying out
their share of the Guardian's instructions.
The members of the National Assembly see
no way to establish definite procedures and
uniform methods for the performance of a
spiritual task!. It is for each Local Spiritual
Assembly to take whatever steps it deems
necessary and advisable in conferring with
each applicant, ascertaining his or her ac-
ceptance of the Bab, Baha'u'llah and 'Abdu'l-
Baha, the iprovisions of the Master's Testa-
ment, and association with the world-wide
Baha'i community.
Before the application
can he made, there exists the prior and
vitally important problem of how inquirers
are taught.
Thus, attempting to follow the
sequence of all the steps leading to enroll-
ment of new members, we realize how urgent
it is for Assemblies to assure themselves
that those serving as Baha'i teachers make
the focal point of all their efforts the prep-
aration of souls for· service in the Baha'i
community. It is not enough to promulgate
the "principles" of the Cause, most of which
have already been adopted by the liberal pub-
lic unconscious of their Source-a
teaching

BAHA't PROCEDURE
program must include classes in which in-
quirers are brought into full acceptance of
the Faith.
We are dealing with matters of deep mys-
tery, as one perceives on reading the follow-
ing words which Baha'u'llah uttered in the
presence
of Nabil
(The Dawn-Breakers,
page 586) -
"Be tlwnkful to God for Jwving enabled
you to recognize His Cause. Whoever has re-
ceived this blessing must, prior to his ac-
ceptance, Jwve performed some deed which,
though he himself was unaware of its charac-
ter, was ordained by Go·d as a means where-
by he Jws been guided to find and embrace
the Truth. As to those who Jwve remained
deprived of such a blessing, their acts alone
Jwve hindered them from recognizing the
truth of this Revelation.
We cherish the
hope tlwt you, who have attained to this
light, will exert your utmost to banish the
darkness of superstition and unbelief from
the midst of the people. May your deeds
proclaim your faith and enable you to lead
the erring into the paths of Eternal salva-
tion."-N.
S. A.
Concerning the qualifications required for
voting, Shoghi Effendi has laid down the es-
sential conditions already in his letters, no
further restrictions should he added to them.
It is for the Local Assembly to dedde in
this matter. They should exercise this right
with extreme tact and caution and avoid rig-
idity and formalism. There is no distinction
in this respect between new and old believ-
ers, nor should contributions to the national
or local funds be made a condition for vot-
ing.-SHOGHI
EFFENDI.
PREPARATION OF NEW BE-
LIEVERS FOR MEMBER-
SHIP IN THE BAHA'I
COMMUNITY
In the August, 1932 issue of Baha'i News
the National Spiritual Assembly published
an important
statement
entitled, "Qualifi-
cations of Membership in a Baha'i Com-
munity." The purpose of that statement, pre-
pared in response to many requests for in-
formation made by local Assemblies, was to
emphasize the importance of the vital func-
tion vested in the local Spiritual Assembly,
of enrolling applicants as voting members of
the community.
Reference to that statement will make it
clear that at that time the need was to
deepen the sense of responsibility felt by all
Assemblies in applying the Guardian's defi-
nite qualifications
of Baha'i membership.
What
the
National
Spiritual
Assembly
SECTION TWO, SHEET 18
sought to accomplish was to remind local
Assemblies that they could not. leave this
matter to any one or more of their members,
or to any teacher, no matter how well in-
formed and loyal the teacher might be. It
was therefore stated that "The members of
an Assembly assume no higher responsibility
than in determining the character of their
community by controlling its new growth
...
One requirement, however, the National
Assembly does lay down at this time: that
Local Assemblies shall read to applicants
the qualifications of voting membership as
defined in the By-Laws, and record in their
minutes the full and complete acceptance by
each applicant."
During recent months the National Spir-
itual Assembly has been receiving requests
for further
information
on one particular
phase of this general question : how best to
prepare new believers for enrollment as vot-
ing Baha'is.
The suggestion has been made, in fact,
that it would be well if the National Assem-
bly could make a ruling that a certain period
of time must elapse before any newly en-
rolled believer may exercise the voting right.
It has been felt, with considerable justice,
that even though a new believer may be en-
tirely qualified as far as loyalty and knowl-
edge of the teachings is concerned, neverthe-
less the wise use of the voting right calls for
another essential qualification, namely, ac-
quaintance with the local community and
complete assimilation into its spirit and ac-
tivities.
While recognizing the importance of this
view, the National Spiritual Assembly must
point out that it has no sanction or authority
whatsoever to establish different classifica-
tions of voting membership.
There is only
one class or character of membership in the
Baha'i community-full
and complete mem-
bership, with no distinction between the vot-
ing rights of a new and an old and more ex-
perienced Baha'i. As soon as a believer is
enrolled, he receives this voting right with-
out the slightest qualification or exception.
To prepare applicants for the right use
of their membership, consequently, the en-
rollment must be deferred until acquaintance
with the community has been gained. This
question, it is clear, arises more particularly
in the case of the few large Baha'i communi-
ties than in the case of the smaller ones
where
personal
acquaintance
is
readily
gained merely by attendance at study classes
and public meetings.
For the larger communities-and
in time
every Baha'i community will have a large
membership in comparison with its present
voting list-the
National Spiritual Assembly

BAHA'i PROCEDURE
now wishes very sincerely and earnestly to
offer a few constructive suggestions which
it is hoped each local Assembly will take to
heart for the sake of the highest interests of
the beloved Faith.
1. As years of experience have shown, in-
tellectual acceptance of the formal standards
of Baha'i faith alone is not sufficient to con-
stitute a true believer. A true believer will,
in addition,
endeavor
whole-heartedly
to
abide by the results of Baha'i consultation
as maintained
by the institutions
of the
Ca use. A true believer, furthermore,
will
seek to contribute to the unity of the entire
community, and find his own development in
the growth of the Cause, and not attempt
to make the community revolve around his
own personality, nor himself revolve around
the human personality of any one believer.
This capacity for spiritual association is not
an additional qualification for membership
-it
is the real test of the believer's pro-
foundest spiritual
faith.
All teachers
re-
sponsible for preparing applicants for mem-
bership will do well to emphasize this vital
point, for the aim of Baha'u'llah's
Revela-
tion is to establish oneness of spirit and
unity of action throughout the world.
2. An applicant who is enrolled as voting
member of a local Baha'i community
is
thereby given association not merely in that
community alone, but by his enrollment be-
comes a Baha'i world citizen-a
member of
the Baha'i Commonwealth maintained by the
central institutions of the Guardianship and
the Universal House of Justice. If he travels,
the enrolled •believer is given credentials
which will be recognized and honored by
National and local Spiritual Assemblies with-
out distinction, whether in the East or the
West.
How important,
therefore,
in the
preparation
of applicants for membership,
that they be made eonscious of this supreme
,privilege, this most vital responsiibility as-
sumed by all who voluntarily seek the shade
of the Divine Tree, who would contribute to
the World Order of Baha'u'llah ! This con-
sideration is likewise a reminder to all of the
.present believers, especially those who are
members of local Assemblies, how essential
it is to avoid merely local and personal is-
sues and situations which might conceal from
an applicant
the true universality
of the
Faith of God.
3. The same consideration likewise gives
due emphasis to the fact that no local Spiri-
tual Assembly is to be regarded as an in-
dependent, self-sufficient Baha'i institution,
but rather as one important link in the series
of institutions
which constitute the World
Order of Baha'u'llah.
Local Assemblies are
dependent upon the National Spiritual As-
SECTION TWO, SHEET 19
sembly, as the National institutions are de-
pendent upon the Guardian and the Univer-
sal House of Justice. It is because of this or-
ganic dependence that the national By-Laws
makie enrollment conditional upon final ap-
proval by the National Spiritual Assembly.
4. In order to assure the entrance of each
new •believer into the Baha'i community upon
the soundest basis possible, it is recom-
mended that local Assemblies, wherever con-
ditions permit, provide a final step for the
preparation of applicants already interested
by home study classes or some teacher's in-
dividual instruction.
This final step consists
in the holding of a special study class under
the Assembly's own direct supervision and
control, where the applicants can be trained
in the Administrative
principles and their
knowledge of the basic teachings carefully
reviewed. By this method, the new believers
will experience
the wise and impersonal
functioning of the institution, and profit also
by contact with other teachers.
Later on,
when local communities are larger and their
collective undertakings more proficient, per-
haps all applicants, before enrollment, will
be able to receive this final, supervised in-
struction.
At present, conditions vary so
much among the communities that this sug-
gestion must be developed in accordance
with local circumstances.
It would 1be well,
however, for individual members of each
local Assembly to feel a more positive respon-
sibility in following all local teaching activi-
ties, visiting each class or group as frequently
as possible, in order to have direct knowl-
edge of this vital aspect of Assembly respon-
sibility.
By consultation it would then be
possible for the Assembly to assist each
group or class conducted by individual teach-
ers in planning their subjects so as to lead
up to the central study class held by the As-
sembly itself.
Success depends upon the
unity of the Assembly and the willing co-
operation of all teachers, old and young, in
striving to enlarge the Baha'i community
year by year.
'
5. It has been realized by discerning
Baha'is that one essential aspect of Baha'i
community life, the social aspect, has so far
remaining practically undeveloped. As local
communities become larger and more experi-
enced, their Assemblies will be able to ar-
range social meetings and gatherings to sat-
isfy the innate human need of friendly as-
sociation, thus supplementing the Nineteen
Day Feasts and the Anniversaries which at
present are the only recognize·d Baha'i gath-
erings. The larger local Assemblies might
even now arrange occasional feasts, in ad-
dition to those in the Baha'i calendar, to
provide occasions for • informal association

BAHA't PROCEDURE
of believers and also to enable applicants to
become acquainted with the local community.
So far, such informal gatherings have been
arranged mostly by individual believers in
their own homes, which tends to make the
social aspect of the community too onesided
and personal, in distinction to the universal-
ity of the formal Baha'i meetings. The Na-
tional Assembly regrets deeply that Baha'is
are still compelled to develop a social life
either outside or on a basis of restricted in-
timacy within the Cause. But through so-
cial gatherings arranged by the local Spiri-
tual Assembly, the social life of Baha'is will
reinforce and strengthen their spiritual and
ethical lives, and moreover such gatherings
will not only bring the applicants and the
older believers together but also demonstrate
the vital fact that Baha'u'llah's
Faith, in
the Guardian's own words, inculcates a stan-
dard which "incline it to neither East nor
West, neither Jew nor Gentile, neither rich
nor poor, neither white nor colored."
6. Last but by no means least in impor-
tance is the fact that when new applicants
are enrolled, not merely are they to be ad-
justed to the· Baha'i community, but the
older believers are also to adjust to the new
friends.
This consideration, in fact, must
receive increasing attention
as indications
multiply that the era of more rapid growth
has ,begun. Courtesy, true Baha'i love and
the spirit of cooperation are due every new
Baha'i, without the slightest
tincture
of
aloofness, separateness or, on the other hand,
undue favoritism,
from those who have
longer shared the privilege of adherence to
the Faith.
The National Spiritual Assembly offers
these remarks as suggestions deserving of
thoughtful attention.
In no sense are they
put forth as rulings or commands, because
formal legislation can not be carried into
the realm of the heart and the conscience.
In essence, this statement is an appeal, an
urgent call for new and higher spiritual at-
titudes on the part of all members of the
American Baha'i Community.-N.
S. A.
The
administrative
responsibilities
of
local Spiritual Assemblies enjoins upon them
to maintain their voting lists in full conf or-
mity with the qualifications of a voting be-
liever as defined by the Guardian and this
function does not involve passing upon the
spiritual
reality of any individual, which
function is reserved to the Guardian alone.
-N.
S. A.
CORRESPONDENCE WITH
THE GUARDIAN
It has been voted that the believers are to
be reminded that the Guardian's original in-
SECTION TWO, SHEET 20
structions concerning letters written to him
by local Assemblies and National Commit-
tees were that such letters were to be sent
him through the National Spiritual Assem-
bly.
The National Assembly is convinced
that full respect paid to this principle will
redound to the spirit of unity and confidence
throughout the Cause in America.
Direct
correspondence with the Guardian on the
part of local Assemblies, and on the part of
Committees appointed by the N. S. A., in-
troduces an element of duality into our
Baha'i activities which ... the Guardian ex-
pressly forbids.-N.
S. A.
SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES
AND THE RIGHTS OF THE
INDIVIDUAL BELIEVER
In our collective haste to establish one of
the fundamental principles of Baha'i admin-
istration, the authority of Spiritual Assem-
blies, another important principle, the rights
of the individual •believer, seems here and
there to be occasionally overlooked.
To correct this over-emphasis upon auth-
ority at the expense of rights, the National
Spiritual Assembly reminds the American
believers that the Guardian has more than
once definitely upheld an area of individual
rights which the authority vested in Spiri-
tual Assemblies cannot invade. · While that
area can not be marked off with finality,
like boundaries on a map, nevertheless by
careful reflection we can at least grasp the
essential principle which must be applied in
all cases where the exercise of authority
upon individual believers is questioned.
Generally speaking, an Assembly's auth-
ority extends throughout the realm of col-
lective Baha'i activities-the
actions under-
taken by the local Baha'i community and
those actions which express the Cause in the
eyes of the public. The question of author-
ity can not legitimately be raised in connec-
tion with the holding of Nineteen
Day
Feasts, public teaching programs, the raising
of Baha'i Funds, the approval of publicity
put forth in the name of the Cause, the call-
ing of Baha'i elections and all other similar
matters which concern the local Baha'i body
as a whole. Such matters are clearly sub-
ject to the authority vested in the Spiritual
Assembly.
There is, however, a realm which is pri-
marily personal in character, where the ex-
ercise of Assemibly authority has sometimes
been exceeded. For example, a .Spiritual As-
sembly has no authority over any individual
believer's private property, neither his in-
come nor his home or business establish-
ment. Neither can an Assembly hope to ex-

BAHA't PROCEDURE
ercise any useful authority over the efforts
of individual believers to spread the Teach-
ings by employing the opportunities which
arise in the course of daily life. These con-
siderations lead the National Spiritual As-
sembly to feel that each and every believer
is free to arrange informal gatherings in his
own home, for the promotion of the Cause,
without formal approval or action by the
Spiritual Assembly. If in such cases a be-
liever feels it desirable to invite another be-
liever to deliver the Message at a home gath-
ering, the believer's choice of teachers can
clearly not be restricted arbitrarily
by the
Assembly, for such restriction would invade
the privacy of the home.
As a matter of fact, since the element of
personal initiative is an integral and infi-
nitely precious part of the Faith, the Spiri-
tual Assembly itself is in duty bound to up-
hold and protect the rights of individual be-
lievers just as it is in duty bound to uphold
and protect any other organic Baha'i teach-
ing or principle.
This is not to sanction a lesser degree of
loyalty to the institution of a Spiritual As-
sembly on the part of any individual believer,
nor should these remarks be taken to imply
that "authority" and "rights" are mutually
exclusive and incompatible realities. Rather
is this statement a plea for more mutual con-
sideration, more encouragement of individ-
uals ,by Assemblies, more respect for Assem-
blies by individuals.
The inter-relationship
of an Assembly and members of the local
Baha'i community can not be mechanical,
for it is based upon the fundamental princi-
ple of unity which, if it is to be achieved and
preserved, bids an Assembly deal with all
believers in kindness and forebearance, and
bids every individual Baha'i maintain an at-
titude of true respect for an institution
created by Baha'u'llah Himself, and as such
not to be judged iby the personalities of those
called to administer the institution
during
these difficult days of its infancy.
Just as authority and power can be abused,
so can individuals abuse their God-given
rights.
Thus, while the holding of home
meetings is a sacred right, there might be an
instance in which a home meeting could re-
sult in the raising of personal issues affect-
ing the Cause in that Community. As the
Guardian has declared, "Let us also remem-
ber that at the very root of the Cause lies
the principle of the undoubted right of the
individual to self-expression, his freedom to
declare his conscience and set forth his views
... Let us also bear in mind that the keynote
of the Cause of God is not dictatorial auth-
ority but humble fellowship, not arbitrary
power, but the spirit of frank and loving
SECTION TWO, SHEET 21
consultation.
Nothing short of the spirit of
a true Baha'i can hope to reconcile the prin-
ciples of mercy and justice, of freedom and
submission, of the sancity of the right of the
individual and of self-surrender, of vigilance,
discretion and prudence on the one hand,
and fellowship, candor, and courage on the
other." -N.
S. A.
THE RESIDENTIAL QUALI-
FICATION OF VOTING
MEMBERSHIP IN A BAHA't
COMMUNITY
In Baha'i News, January, 1935, the Na-
tional Spiritual Assembly published a state-
ment entitled
"Interpretation
of the By-
Law on Residential Qualification of Voting
Believers" in which •was expressed the view
that the requirement of residence as one of
the qualifications of a voting believer should
be based upon definite proof of capacity to
associate with the Baha'i community.
It appears that this interpretation has led
to some confusion in a number of local com-
munities. The National Spiritual Assembly
has therefore given the subject further con-
sideration and now offers the following sup-
plementary statement in clarification of the
January publication.
This statement is the
outcome of consultation with· the Guardian
and has been submitted to and approved by
him. It is based upon what he considers "a
fundamental principle" of Baha'i Adminis-
tration,-that
no adult believer may ibe de-
prived of "the sacred right of participating
in Baha'i elections," unless he reside in a
community not itself qualified for such par-
ticipation or has permanently withdrawn or
been removed from further association with
the activities of the Faith.
1. The enrollment of voting members in
accordance with the By-Laws of the National
Spiritual Assembly is a responsibility vested
in the Local Spiritual Assembly, but is made
subject to approval by the National Assem-
bly. Otherwise, the matter of an individual's
voting right does not come before the latter
unless on appeal from a decision made by
a Local Assembly.
2. Previous statements •published in Baha'i
News have sought to clarify the action of
Local Assemblies in determining the appli-
cant's qualifications for voting membership
in a Baha'i community with respect to his
faith and his acceptance of the Cause in gen-
eral.
The question now under discussion
deals exclusively with the matter of resi-
dence, and how Local Assemblies are to apply
the residential qualifications as set forth in
the By-Laws.

BAHA't PROCEDURE
3. The requirement of residential qualifi-
cations is recorded in Article II, Section (a)
of the By-Laws, which reads as follows:
"To become a voting member of a Baha'i
community a person shall
a. Be a resident of the locality defined by
the area of jurisdiction
of the Local
Spiritual
Assembly, as provided
by
Article VII, Section 12, of this instru-
ment."
Article VII, Section 12, ref erred to, pro-
vides:
"The sip here of jurisdiction
of a Local
Spiritual Assembly, with respect to residen-
tial qualification of membership and voting
rights of a believer in any Baha'i community,
shall ,be the locality included within the civil
limits of the city, town or village; but Baha'is
who reside in adjacent, outlying or suburban
districts and can regularly attend the meet-
ings of the local Baha'i community, may be
enrolled on the membership list of the ad-
jacent Spiritual Assembly and enjoy full vot-
ing rights pending the establishment
of a
Local Spiritual Assembly in their commu-
nity."
4. Under these provisions of the By-Laws,
residential qualification for voting member-
ship in a Baha'i community thus becomes a
• question of fact.
In order to assist Local
Spiritual Assemblies in determining whether
an applicant for such membership
comes
within these requirements in any particular
case, the National Spiritual Assembly offers
the following interpretation
of certain spe-
cific situations which experience has shown
are likely to arise.
A. Where a ibeliever lives sufficiently near
a Baha'i community to take an active
share in its activities and there is no
organized
Spiritual
Assembly in his
own community, he should be enrolled
and continued upon the voting list of
that community until a Spiritual As-
sembly is established in his own im-
mediate neighborhood.
B. Where a believer, actually a resident of
a particular community, is temporarily
absent from his community but hon-
estly regards his residence there as con-
tinuing and fully intends to return to
and resume his activities in that com-
munity, he retains his voting rights in
the community without interruption.
He may not, however, during his ab-
sence vote in any other Baha'i com-
munity.
C. Where a believer spends practically half
of the year within the jurisdiction of
one Baha'i community and the other
half within the jurisdiction of another
he must choose which of the two locali-
SECTION TWO, SHEET 22
ties he considers to be his place of resi-
dence, and exercise his voting rights in
that city alone. Naturally, he should
take part in all other Baha'i activities
in whichever place he may be.
D. Where a believer claims residence in
a particular
community for the pur-
pose of exercising voting rights but is
actually domiciled elsewhere and makes
only occasional visits to the community,
insufficient to bring him within the pro-
vision of paragraph A above, a question
of fact arises which the Local Spiri-
tual Assembly may find it difficult to
decide. In such cases the Local As-
sembly may take counsel with the Na-
tional Assembly before making a final
decision.
E. A Local Spiritual Assembly confronted
by any other unusual situation involv-
ing the question of residence can at any
time seek advice from the National
Spiritual
Assembly before making a
final decision.
5. In connection with the foregoing inter-
pretations, though not involving the specific
question of residence exclusively, the follow-
ing point has been brought to the attention
of the National Spiritual Assembly by the
Guardian.
a. A believer who has ,been absent for some
time from the community of which he is
a resident, or a new believer not yet
sufficiently well acquainted
with the
local community, is not obliged to vote
in a Baha'i election when conscienti-
ously feeling incapable of voting intel-
ligently.
It is hoped that these supplementary ex-
planations will remove the misunderstand-
ings which the January
statement appears
to have caused and may be of assistance to
Local .Spiritual Assemblies in dealing with
this important question of residence.-N.S.A.
The National Spiritual Assembly calls the
attention of the local Assemblies and believ-
ers to the Article in the By-Laws which de-
fines the area of jurisdiction
of the local
Spiritual Assembly, which definition provides
that believers living in adjacent and outlying
districts can be enrolled as voting members
of a local Assembly, pending the establish-
ment of a local Assembly in their own city.
This By-Law clearly makes it impossible for
a ,believer living in a city which has a local
Spiritual Assembly to hold membership in
any other Baha'i community. In accordance
with this constitutional
provision, the Na-
tional Spiritual Assembly requests local As-
semblies to adjust their voting list at their
early convenience. This general instruction
does not in any way mean that believers are

BAHA't PROCEDURE
not free to attend a Baha'i meeting in any
city, ,but merely controls their voting rights.
-N.S.A.
THE CHARACTER OF
BAHA't ELECTIONS
"Let us recall His explicit and often-re-
peated assurance that every Assembly elected
in that rarified atmosphere
of selflessness
and detachment, is in truth, appointed of
God, that its verdict is truly inspired, that
one and all should submit to its decision un-
reservedly and with cheerfulness . . . The
elector ... is called upon to vote for none but
those whom prayer and reflection have in-
spired him to uphold ...
Hence it is incum-
bent upon the chosen delegates to consider
without the least trace of passion and preju-
dice, and irrespective of any material con-
sideration, the names of only those who can
best combine the necessary qualities of un-
questioned loyalty, of selfless devotion, of a
well-trained mind, of recognized ability and
mature eXiperience ...
Nothing short of the
all-encompassing, all-pervading power of His
Guidance and Love can enable this newly en-
folded order to gather strength and flourish
amid the storm and stress of a turbulent age,
and in the fulness of time vindicate its high
claim to be universally recognized as the one
Haven of abiding
felicity and peace."-
Shoghi Effendi.
.
From time to time the question is placed
before the National Spiritual Assembly as to
what a Local Assembly should do when it has
evidence that some believer has attempted
to exert influence upon other believers in
order to affect their votes in a Baha'i election.
In deliberating upon this important mat-
ter, the National Assembly has sought to ar-
rive at and define, in the light of the Guar-
dian's instructions,
the true Baha'i attitude
toward all elections held within the Cause,
whether they are elections for members of a
Local Spiritual
Assemply, of Convention
delegates or of members of the National
Spiritual Assembly.
The Guardian's
words quoted above, all
taken from the volume "Baha'i Administra-
tion," clearly create the spiritual standard
which each and every voting member of a
Baha'i community must endeavor to attain.
Such a standard compels us to leave behind
many practices to which we have become ac-
customed through the influence of the politi-
cal society existing throughout the world.
Thus, the Baha'i Faith contains no parti-
san factions corresponding
to the political
parties dominating the civil community. The
issue before a Baha'i electoral body is never
the obligation to choose between rival candi-
SECTION TWO, SHEET 23
dates nor rival platforms and policies. The
sole issue is the spiritual problem consisting
in the obligation of each believer to uphold
those qualities
which the Guardian
has
enumerated in the selected passages quoted
above. If we would meet this obligation faith-
fully, we must eliminate our own personal
likes and dislikes and rise to the station of
pure and selfless vision.
Such vision, as Shoghi Effendi declares, is
inspired by prayer and reflection. The voter's
vision will only be clouded if he permits any
other believer, directly or indirectly, to in-
fluen·ce his choice. If it is contrary to the
Baha'i standard for any believer to attempt
to influence the votes of other believers, it is
likewise contrary to that standard for any
believer to allow himself to be influenced.
The character of Baha'i elections is such
that the National Spiritual Assembly feels
profoundly
that
its maintenance
depends
upon the loyal faithfulness of all ,believers in
the community much more than upon the vig-
ilance and authority of the Spiritual Assem-
bly alone. Methods and practices contrary to
the true Baha'i standard can in any locality
be quickly extirpated
if the believer ap-
proached with improper influence and sug-
gestion will immediately, in every instance,
not merely reject such invasion of his spirit-
ual rights and duties but also sternly rebuke
the wrong doer. It is not the few wrong doers
here and there who can do injury to the
Cause, but the negative and passive attitude
of his or her fellow-believers who fail to as-
sert the power of the Teachings.
A World Order still in its infancy must in-
evitably pass through all manner of test and
eXiperience in order to become mature and
strong, able to detect error and fallacy from
any and every source and prevent the en-
trance of even the subtlest negative sugges-
tion. For this reason the National Spiritual
Assembly believes that whatever evidences
there may be in any locality at present of un-
Baha'i electoral practices, the problem in es-
sence is one of educating the believers to un-
derstand, appreciate and uphold the Guar-
dian's standard rather than of disciplinary
action on the part of the Local or National
Assembly.
As the Guardian recently advised, it is
only when repeated warnings are unheeded,
and deliberate disloyalty has become mani-
fest, that the extreme measure of expulsion
should be undertaken.
The test of our collec-
tive wisdom now is the capacity to distin-
guish between deliberate disloyalty and the
errors that proceed from lack of knowledge,
heedlessness or immaturity.
The National
Spiritual
Assembly will
never fail to assist with all its power any

BAHA't PROCEDURE
Local Assembly confronted
by conditions
arising from deliberate disloyalty; but the
view expressed here is that most misconduct
surrounding
Baha'i elections can be extir-
pated entirely by wise action on the part of
the believers themselves.
The concrete suggestion is however made
that each Local Spiritual Assembly, immedi-
ately preceding elections, shall remind the
friends of the Guardian's words concerning
their spiritual character.
Indeed, the impor-
tance of developing the World Order of Ba-
ha'u'llah
is so vital that the question of
whether a Baha'i should or should not vote
in political elections is merely secondary.-
N. S.A.
REPORTS FROM LOCAL
ASSEMBLIES
The National Spiritual Assembly requests
each local Assembly hereafter to send it a
copy of all important notices covering poli-
cies, rules or regulations as well as impor-
tant announcements having to do with elec-
tions and organizations under Baha'i admin-
istration, which the local Assembly may is-
sue to the Baha'i community from time to
time.-N.
S. A.
TRANSFER OF BELIEVERS
The transfer
of believers involved in un-
finished matters proceeding under the local
Assembly's jurisdiction
is to be postponed
pending a report of the circumstances to the
National Assembly and its approval of the
transfer.
The ,purpose of the above ruling is to make
it possible for a local Spiritual Assembly to
retain jurisdiction of a case until the matter
is concluded. For example, if an Assembly
is endeavoring to settle some difference be-
tween two believers, and knows all the cir-
cumstances of the case, but before a decision
is made one of the believers moves to another
city, where the Assembly is naturally unin-
formed of the ,problem, the believer who
moves is not to be given a letter of transfer
by his former Assembly until the National
Assembly has opportunity to learn the cir-
cumstances and approve the time when the
transfer can be made-when,
in other words,
the Assembly in the city where the believer
has taken up his or. her new residence is to
exercise jurisdiction over the affairs of that
believer.-N.
S. A.
HOW TO ENROLL NEW
BELIEVERS
Following the outline supplied by the Na-
tional Spiritual Assembly in its article on
SECTION TWO, SHEET 24
"The Qualifications of a Voting Believer,"
published a few months ago, the Spiritual
Assembly of the Baha'is of Chicago have re-
corded in their minutes the acceptance of a
new believer in such a clear and comprehen-
sive manner that an excerpt from these min-
utes is now published as a model that might
well be followed by other Assemblies.
"This is to certify that on ... (date), 19 .. ,
the Local Spiritual Assembly of the Baha'is
of ......
met in consultation with ....
who
had made application for affiliation with the
. . . . . . Baha'is, and in compliance with sug-
gestions made by the National Spiritual As-
sembly, the following procedure was carried
out : The Chairman, ............
, read to
the applicant excerpts from Baha'i Adminis-
tration, the qualifications for voting member-
ship in a Baha'i Community as outlined in
the By-Laws and excerpts from the Will and
Testament of 'Abdu'l-Baha, and gave a very
interesting
and
complete explanation
of
Baha'i organization.
"It was ascertained that Mr ....
had care-
fully studied Baha'i Administration
and the
Will of 'A.bdu'l-Baha, as well as much other
Baha'i literature,
and following the above
procedure acknowledged his understanding
and complete acceptance of the tenets of
Baha'i Faith. It is thereupon the unanimous
vote of those present that Mr .... be accepted
as a voting member of the . . . . . . Baha'i
Community."-N.
S. A.
RELATION OF THE LOCAL
TO THE NATIONAL
SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY
Concerning local Bahai'i news letters, the
Guardian strongly feels that they should be
primarily devoted to the spread of local news
and activities, and should under no circum-
stances contain any statement implying criti-
cism of or even interference with the :policy
of the N. S. A. They may occasionally refer
to items of a naffonal scope, but this should
be done only with the view of assisting and
not hindering the national body of the Cause
to carry out effectively its program and de-
cisions. There is thus a definite line of de-
marcation between correspondence initiated
by local and National Assemblies. Local ac-
tivities should always be subordinated
to
those of a national character and impor-
• tance. This is intended not to minimize the
role of the local Assembly in the administra-
tive order, but to establish and insure a sane
relationship between that body and the na-
tional organism of the Cause.-SH0GHI E~-
FENDI.
As to the problem which has arisen in con-

BAHA't PROCEDURE
nection with the News Letter published and
circulated by the ..........
Assembly, the
Guardian
has already written about it to
your N. S. A,, expressing the view that under
no circumstances should any local Assembly
be given the right to criticize and much less
oppose, the policy duly adopted and approved
by the N. S. A. It is his hope that henceforth
the 'problem of the relationship between the
N. S. A. and the local Assemblies in matters
of this nature will, in the light of his instruc-
tions, be carefully understood by individuals
and Assemblies alike.-SH0GHI EFFENDI.
Just as the local Baha'i fund must under
all circumstances be subordinated to the na-
tional fund, so also, every local circular let-
ter should be considered as subsidiary to the
national report of Baha'i activities in every
country.
Such a coordination between local
and national efforts is indispensable, not only
because of its economic advantages, but es-
sentially due to the fact that upon the appli-
cation of the principle underlying this proc-
ess must inevitably
depend the effective
working of the entire administrative
ma-
chinery of the Faith.
There is order, coor-
<lination and system in the Cause, and not a
jungle of conflicting interests and of contin-
ually clashing wills.-SHOGHI
EFFENDI.
REVIEW AND PUBLICA-
TION OF BAHA't LITERA-
TURE BY LOCAL
ASSEMBLIES
With the development of the Cause, the
increased opportunity
for teaching arising
.among local Baha'i Communities will from
time to time bring up the question of whether
a Local Spiritual Assembly has the right to
publish Baha'i literature.
This question, in
turn, brings up the parallel question of how
far the jurisdiction of a Local Spiritual As-
sembly involves the right of review.
In order to anticipate these and similar
c(luestions, the National Spiritual Assembly
has noted in its minutes a general policy
which is now brought to the attention of the
believers.
By "publication" several different activi-
ties are implied. Many Local Spiri~ual As-
semblies already issue printed 'programs and
bulletins which contain excerpts from the
literature.
In this case no questions arises as
to the jurisdiction
of the local body. Each
Assembly has not only the right but also the
duty and responsibility of presenting its ac-
tivities to the .Baha'i Community and to the
public in the most dignified and effective
form.
Similarly, a Local Spiritual Assembly is
SECTION TWO, SHEET 25
responsible for the accuracy of the teachings
as presented by members of its Community
or by visiting ,believers. This, in a way, cor-
responds to the function of review. More-
over, a Local Spiritual Assembly alone can
pass upon the material furnished to the press
on behalf of its Baha'i Community.
What the National Spiritual Assembly had
in mind in adopting a general policy was the
more formal
publication
represented
by
pamphlets and books. The question this pol-
icy attempted to answer is whether a Local
Spiritual Assembly can issue Baha'i litera-
ture of a general character on its own re-
s,ponsibility.
The Guardian's instructions in Balui'i Ad-
minigtration make it clear that all Baha'i lit-
erature of a general character, that is, aside
from programs and bulletins, are to be re-
viewed by a committee of the National Spir-
itual Assembly. This makes it evident that,
as far as the review function is concerned,
a Local Spiritual
Assembly
(apart
from
local teaching and publicity work) is sub-
ject to the general jurisdiction
of the Na-
tional Spiritual Assembly.
Still another point to be considered is
whether a Local Spiritual Assembly can pub-
lish, as a pamphlet or book, any literature
(such as excerpts from the recognized Writ-
ings) already approved by the Reviewing
Committee of the National
Spiritual
As-
sembly.
Here the policy adopted by the National
Spiritual Assembly makes a distinction be-
tween publishing for sale and publishing as
free literature.
According to this policy, the
publishing of Baha'i literature
for sale is
vested solely in the Publishing
Committee
appointed by the National Spiritual Assem-
bly, as otherwise it would be impossible to de-
velop one well-organized, responsible and effi-
cient national publishing activity.
On the other hand, if it is a matter of a
Local
Spiritual
Assembly
publishing
a
pamphlet for free distribution,
as part of
its teaching activity, the National Spiritual
Assembly feels that this is permitted
by
Baha'i administrative
principles,
provid'ed
that the material so published has already
been approved by the National Reviewing
Committee. To sum up the attitude of the
National Spiritual Assembly, Local Spiritual
Assemblies are requested, for the sake of the
well being and orderly progress of the Cause
in the United States and Canada, to observe
this policy. Aside from evidently local mat-
ters, like programs, a Local Spiritual Assem-
bly has no right of review or publication of
Baha'i literature except in the one case that
it may issue, as free literature, printed leaf-
lets and pamphlets containing material al-

BAHA't PROCEDURE
ready, in its entirety, approved by the N~
tional
Reviewing
Committee
and
subse-
quently confirmed by action of the National
Spiritual Assembly. The members of the Na-
tional Spiritual Assembly sincerely hope that
this policy will be entirely acceptable to all
Baha'i Communities, as a just and reason-
able attitude based upon the Guardian's in-
structions.-N.
S. A.
INSTRUCTION IN WILL
AND TESTAMENT
Local Assemblies are directed to instruct
new believers in the meaning of this new
compilation (i. e., the Will and Testament in
the new edition) and furthermore, that local
Assemblies are to be responsible for provid-
ing new believers with copies.-N.
S. A.
TO STUDY REPORTS AND
RECOMMENDATIONS
In transmitting
to the National Spiritual
Assembly
reports
and
recommendations
emanating from the local community, a local
Spiritual Assembly should not be merely a
passive medium used by believers to bring
matters to the attention of the N. S. A. but
should make its own independent study of
such reports and recommendations and for-
ward them with a statement of its own atti-
tude and comment.
Such a procedure will
not only save the National Assembly much
valuable time, but will also enable local As-
semblies to develop necessary experience and
capacity.-N.
S. A.
TO APPROVE RADIO
PROGRAMS
All radio broadcasts of a direct Baha'i
character shall be approved by the local As-
sembly before delivery.-N.
S. A.
ANNUAL MEMORIAL
MEETINGS
It has been voted to record the attitude of
the N. S. A. that local Assemblies would not
be justified in sanctioning annual memorial
meetings to commemorate individual believ-
ers.-N.
S. A.
ON COLLECTION OF
BAHA't FUNDS
Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge
the recei,pt of your letter dated May 8th,
1932, telling him of some incidents that
tr~nspired during the Convention this year,
SECTION TWO, SHEET 26
especially when funds were collected for the
Temple.
He was very glad to learn of the
wonderful
spirit
that
prevailed
in those
gatherings;
for it is only through such a
spirit
of devotion and sacrifice that the
Cause can prosper and its message embrace
the whole world.
It was also wonderful to
see the interest shown by the public in the
general gatherings that formed part of the
Convention program.
Shoghi Effendi hopes that as the Temple
is gradually completed this interest will in-
crease and they will try to share in the
spirit that motivates the friends and, accept-
ing the Faith of Baha'u'llah, arise to serve
it and dedicate their life to its spread.
Such gatherings
for collections of funds
are permissible if it is done with a true spirit
of sacrifice, not when the audience is espe-
cially aroused to a frenzy and mob psychol-
ogy is used tc;> induce them to pay.
Shoghi Effendi has repeatedly stated that
no pressure should be used upon the friends
and psychological pressure falls under that
category.
But there is much difference be-
tween such gatherings
often used by re-
ligious bodies, and a true quiet, prayerful
atmosphere when a person is, of his own ac-
cord, aroused to make some sacrifice.
The
distinction is very delicate, but it is for the
Chairman to use his power to see that one
desirable form is not corrupted
into the
other.
All the activities of the Cause should
be carried through in a dignified manner.
Shoghi Effendi is sure that the funds gath-
ered at the last Convention was not due to
the play of mob psychology but to the prayer-
ful attitude of the friends and their desire
to make further sacrifice.-SHOGHI EFFENDI.
CONTACT WITH INTER-
ORGANIZATIONAL
ACTIVITIES
A local Assembly may be represented
through a delegate at an inter-organization
conference, the purpose of which is in full
harmony with the Baha'i teachings and prin-
ciples and the organization of which in no
way limits the spirit of freedom of the Ba-
ha'i delegate or veils the identity of the
Spiritual Assembly participating.-N.
S. A.
COLLECTION OF TABLETS
Local Spiritual Assemblies are requested
to announce the following recommendation,
and do their utmost to see that it is carried
into effect :-that
individual believers (and
Assemblies themselves)
who have in their
possession original Tablets of •Abdu'l-Baha,

BAHA't PROCEDURE
with the necessary
original
translations,
original letters of Shoghi Effendi, or other
sacred records and objects, take steps to have
them preserved in the Baha'i Archives.
The
Guardian has said that the collection and
publication of Tablets is one of the most
important
duties
of
this
generation.-
N. S. A.
LOCAL ARCHIVES
a. Such records as the local Assembly may
wish to make available bearing upon the lo-
cal activities, all records of importance in
connection with the growth of the Cause lo-
cally.
b. Accurate
individual
records
of all
members of the local Baha'i community.
c. Relics, photographs,
etc., associated
with the experiences of individual Baha'is,
unless gifts of the Master or the Guardian.-
N. S.A.
STATUS OF BAHA'i
CENTERS
Any public meeting place entirely con-
trolled by the believers should in its function
be regarded in the light of a Mashriqu'l-
Adhkar
and its accessory
activities.-N.
S. A.
PERMANENT LOCAL
ADDRESS.
Voted to request local Assemblies which
have no permanent headquarters
to take a
Post Office Box which can be used as a per-
manent address for Baha'i correspondance,
the Box to be made accessible to the duly
elected secretary
from year to year.-N.
S. A.
CONTACT WITH CIVIL
AUTHORITIES
Individual believers and also local Assem-
blies can only make contact with Federal and
State officials on Baha'i matters through the
National Assembly, in accordance with the
recommendation made by those present on
September 3, 1933.-N.
S. A.
ON MISUNDERSTANDINGS
AND DIFFERENCES BE-
TWEEN INDIVIDUAL
BELIEVERS
In every Baha'i community,
misunder-
standings and differences between individual
believers arise from time to time, and the
SECTION TWO, SHEET 27
Cause of Baha'u'llah provides spiritual prin-
ciples and also administrative
institutions
for the preservation of the unity of the be-
lievers under all conditions.
As the mem-
bers of the community, one and all, con-
scientiously abide by the Teachings
such
disturbances will result in strengthening our
collective capacity and deepening our spirit
of faith, but whenever the Teachings are not
fully applied, ,perisonal grief and perhaps
even injustice may result.
The members of the Spiritual Assembly
feel that it will be helpful to summarize
briefly its understanding
of the principles
which control this important matter of per-
sonal differences between believers.
In the first place, the spiritual law of the
Cause, which 'Abdu'l-Baha so frequently ex-
plained, is that whenever two Baha'is have
any difference, they themselves are in duty
bound to try and attain true harmony.
The
Master even said that if two believers are
unwilling to be reconciled, both will event-
ually leave the Cause. He did not say that
they would be removed from the Cause by
administrative action ; His words meant that
such an offense against divine law would be
punished by loss of faith leading eventually
to an abandonment of the Gause by the of-
f enders.
The Spiritual
Assembly, in the second
place, has a great responsibility in all mat-
ters of dispute between believers which are
referred to it for settlement.
The Assembly,
when it receives a complaint from a member
of the community about another believer,
must spare no effort to learn the facts and,
when possible, make a decision.
It is clear
that an Assembly cannot make a decision in
cases which arise merely from personal an-
tagonism or unfriendliness, but in such cases
can only insist that the grief or unhappiness
should not be allowed to become a cause of
disunity within the community as a whole.
The Assembly also must in these cases point
out the Master's interpretation
of the spirit-
ual law and urge the two believers concerned
in the dispute to realize the gravity of their
mutual antagonism.
Some disputes, on the other hand, may
arise from business or other relations be-
tween believers and involve charges of some
definite unfairness or injustice committed by
one believer against another.
When such
charges can be proved, it is surely the duty
of the Assembly to remove the injustice and
place the matter upon a proper Baha'i basis.
No doubt all of us still need to be reminded
of the fact that when a matter has been re-
f erred to a Spiritual Assembly for decision,
the individual believers concerned must await
the Assembly's decision and abide by it, un-

BAHA'I PROCEDURE
less and until that decision is altered on ap-
peal to the National Spiritual Assembly. But
whether the matter is being handled by the
local or by the National Assembly, none of
the believers involved in the trouble should
agitate their case among the friends. Noth-
ing so disrupts a Baha'i community as per-
sonal agitation.
The only solution of this
problem is for every faithful believer, when
approached by another believer with com-
plaints and criticisms, to remind that be-
liever of his or her duty to refer the diffi-
culty to the Assembly, and not share that be-
liever's personal agitation.
Nine times out of ten, the spirit of calm
and serene faith on the part of other Baha'is
whom the agitated believer approaches will
allay the feeling of trouble, but when the per-
sonal agitation is shared by others, the or-
iginal problem becomes multiplied into an
issue which disturbs the whole community.
When a believer brings a problem to the
Assembly, it is not sufficient to make charges
and complaints against another believer,-
every charge must be proved before the As-
sembly can act.
No Spiritual
Assembly
could possibly allow itself to be a mere pas-
sive instrument for any one believer to use
as a weapon against another.
The Assembly
has the same duty of justice and considera-
tion toward the one against whom the charg-
es are made as toward the one who makes the
charges.
In looking into the problem which has been
referred to it, the Assembly must call in for
consultation all the individual Baha'is who
may be involved. However deep the feeling
one believer may have against another, and
no matter what may be the reasons for that
feeling, no faithful Baha'i will refuse to meet
with the Spiritual Assembly for such con-
sultation, because it is consultation with the
Assembly itself and not with the believer
against whom the complaint is made. Should
the one making the complaint refuse to con-
sult with the Assembly, the Assembly in that
case must dismiss the complaint, since one
of the necessary steps leading to eventual
justice and unity has been refused by a party
to the dispute ; unless of course the truth of
the charges is self-evident.
If the Baha'i
who ma:~es the complaint is willing to come
for consultation, but the other Baha'i-that
is, the one against whom the complaint is
made-refuses
the Assembly's
invitation,
this refusal would be serious, because on the
one hand it would create a strong impression
that the believer could not answer the charg-
es made against him or her, and on the other
hand it would mean unwillingness to recog-
nize the authority of the Assembly to act in
a matter affecting Baha'is and consequently
SECTION TWO, SHEET 28
affecting the Cause itself.
To carry the explanation one step farther:
if all the believers concerned in a personal
problem have met with the Assembly, and if
the Assembly, after looking into the matter
from all sides, makes a decision, the believers
are clearly obligated to accept that decision
and abide by it.
An appeal, of course, can
be made to the N. S. A. and eventually to the
Guardian, but whatever the Baha'i authority
which is invoked, a matter ref erred to a
Baha'i institution for settlement is outside
the realm of personal feeling and individual
conscience. If we do not trust the Baha'i in-
stitutions created by Baha'u'llah, we do not
have real faith in Baha'u'llah Himself. More-
over, even when an Assembly makes a deci-
sion in a case of personal dispute, the spirit-
ual law laid upon all Baha'is is still operat-
ing, and the believers involved in the prob-
lem should pray for divine compassion and
illumination in addition to whatever actions
they take in relation to administrative
pro-
cedure.
We Baha'is live in the spiritual
world which Baha'u'llah created in His Reve-
lation, and we must do our utmost to learn
and obey its mysterious laws which control
our destiny.
"Every eye, in this Day, should seek what
will best promote the Cause of God. He, Who
is the Eternal Truth, beareth me witness!
Nothing whatever can, in this Day, inflict a
greater harm upon this Cause than dissen-
sion and strife, contention, estrangement and
apathy, among the loved ones of God. Flee
them, through the power of ·God and His
sovereign aid, and strive to knit together the
hearts of men, in His Name, the Unifier, the
All-Knowing, the All-Wise." (Baha'u'llah.)-
N. S. A.
ON SLANDER AND
BACKBITING
One of the most important of all divine
commandments, specially stressed in the Ba-
ha'i Teachings, is : "Breathe not the sins of
others so long as thou art a sinner. Shouldst
thou transgress this command, accursed art
thou and to this I testify." (Hidden Words,
27.) Baha'u'llah further warns that: "Back-
biting quencheth the light of the heart and
extinguisheth the life of the soul." (Glean-
ings, p. 265.) In His Will and Testament,
'Abdu'l-Baha adds: "According to the direct
command of God, we are forbidden to utter
slander."
The Master further elucidates this
vital subject in a Tablet wherein He states:
"How blessed are these aims, especially the
prevention of backbiting.
I hope that you
may become confirmed therein.
Because the
worst human quality and the most great sin

BAHA't PROCEDURE
is backbiting, more especially when it ema-
nates from the tongues of the believers of
God. If some means were divine (devised?)
so that the doors of backbiting could be shut
eternally and each one of the believers of
God unseaied his tongue in the praise of the
other, then the teachings of His Holiness Ba-
ha'u'llah
would be spread, the hearts
il-
lumined, the spirits glorified and the human
world would attain to overlasting felicity."
(Tablet to Dr. M. S. C., Washington, D. C.
Translated August 12, 1913.)
In order to distinguish between legitimate
reports
to a Baha'i administrative
body
which may affect the welfare of a Baha'i
community or an individual member thereof
and unwarranted rumors, negative and hear-
say gossip, slander and backbiting, inten-
tionally or thoughtlessly circulated, the Na-
tional Spiritual Assembly has adopted the
following rule of action for the guidance of
the Baha'i Assemblies and communities un-
der its jurisdiction.
1. In no case should the friends speak1 to
their fellow-believers in the community of
any matter involving personal dilinquencies,
alleged or actual, of another member of the
community, nor permit believers to speak to
them of such matters.
If a complaint is
warranted,
it should be brought directly to
the local Assembly for consideration.
2. A local Assembly should assume juris-
diction only when the acts or words of a
member of the Baha'i community are such
as to threaten the integrity of the Cause it-
self, or to undermine the good name and
reputation of a believer.
3. This rule of action also applies for the
protection of believers, from any discussion
of their alleged personal shortcomings in Ba-
ha'i communities other than that in which
such believers reside.
4. All such personal matters are strictly
barred from discussion at the Nineteen Day
Feasts.
5. In applying the law of Baha'u'llah rela-
tive to the bringing of complaints and in-
formation
to a local Assembly concerning
the alleged or actual shortcomings of indi-
vidual believers, the Assembly should not en-
SECTION TWO, SHEET ~
tertain or listen to any complaint based upon
hearsay or rumor, but should, in all cases,
insist that the complainant or witness speak
only of such matters and present such evi-
dence as he or she knows to be true, of his
or her own knowledge.
6. In the event that a local Assembly is
unable to stop or prevent the continued dis-
cussion or circulation of criticisms and un-
founded rumors after it has taken juris-
diction of the matter, it is to report such
cases immediately to the National Spiritual
Assembly.
The National Spiritual Assem-
bly, after
careful investigation,
will take
vigorous action to remove the misunder-
standings
and misrepretations
that
have
arisen and render full justice to the indi-
vidual believer or believers concerned.
The new World Order is and must be held
sacred and free from this grave defect in
human relationships, which not only often
inflicts unmerited injury and suffering upon
the individual but, more important, destroys
the solidarity of the Baha'i community. Whis-
pering and backbiting is equivalent to sep-
aration among the friends of God, and, in
the final analysis, is the will to harm and to
alienate the hearts.
The National Spiritual Assembly feels as-
sured and confident that all the friends will
make every effort to realize in their indivi-
dual and community lives a greater love and
unity of purpose, and be ever mindful of
Baha'u'llah's
injunction:
"Attribute
not. to
any soul that which thou wouldst not have
attributed
to thee, and say not that which
thou doest not.
This is My Command to
thee, do thou observe it." (Hidden Words,
29.)
"0 my servants! Deprive not yourselves
of the unfading and resplendent Light that
shineth within the Lamp of Divine Glory.
Let the flame of the love of God burn bright-
ly within your radiant hearts.
Feed it with
the oil of Divine guidance, and protect it
within the shelter of your constancy. Guard
it within the globe of trust and detachment
from all else but God, so that the whisperings
of the ungodly may not extinguish its light."
(Gleanings, pp. 325-326.)-N.
S. A.

BAHA'I PROCEDURE
THE NATURE AND AIMS
OF THE ANNUAL BAHA'I
CONVENTION
Compiled from the Guardian's
Letters to Conventions, to the
General Body of Believers arid
to the National Spiritual
Assembly
1. You stand at this challenging hour in
the history of the Cause at the threshold of
a new era; the functions you are called upon
to discharge are fraught with immense pos-
si;bilities; the responsibilities
you shoulder
are grave and momentous, and the eyes of
many people are turned, at this hour, to-
wards you, expectant to behold the dawning
of a Day that shall witness the fulfilment of
His Divine Promise.
Forgetful of the past and its vicissitudes,
conscious of the need for renewed and com-
bined effort, freed from all earthly limita-
tions and motives, with every lingering trace
of ill-feeling forever
banished
from our
hearts, freshly united and determined, let us
join in deep and silent communion with the
ever-watchful Spirit of our beloved 'Abdu'l-
Baha, and with humility and earnestness sup-
plicate for the guidance that will enable us
to fulfil the task which is now committed to
our charge.
2. It is expressly recorded in 'Abdu'l-
Baha's Writings that these National Assem-
blies must be indirectly
elected by the
friends; that is, the friends in every country
must elect a certain number of delegates,
who in their turn will elect from among all
the friends in that country the members of
the National Spiritual Assembly.
In such
countries,
therefore,
as America,
Great
Britain and Germany, a fixed number of sec-
ondary electors must first be decided upon
(95 for America, including the Pacific Is-
lands; 95 for Germany; .and 19 for Great
Britain) . The friends then in every locality
where the number of adult declared believers
exceeds nine* must directly elect its quota of
secondary electors assigned to it in direct
proportion to its numerical strength.
These
secondary electors will then, either through
correspondence, or preferably by gathering
together, and first deliberating upon the af-
fairs of the Cause throughout their country
(as the delegates to the Convention), elect
* The Guardian's
first
instruction
was that
a
Spiritual
Assembly shou_ld be elected i~ commun!-
ties having more than nme declared believers; this
instruction
was later modified by the statement that
a group of exactly nine believers may constitute
themselves
a Spiritual
Assembly by joint declara-
tion.-EDITOR.
SECTION THREE, SHEET I
from among all the friends in that country
the nine who will be the members of the
National Spiritual Assembly.
3. I am deeply convinced that if the An-
nual Convention of the friends in America,
as well as the National Spiritual Assembly,
desire to become potent instruments for the
speedy realization of the Beloved's fondest
hopes for the future of that country, they
should endeavor, first and foremost to ex-
emplify in an increasing degree, to all Ba-
ha'is and to the world at large the high ideals
of fellowship and service which Baha'u'llah
and the beloved Master repeatedly set before
them.
They can claim the admiration, the
support and eventually the allegiance of their
fellow-countrymen
only by their strict re-
gard for the dignity, the welfare, and the
unity of the Cause of God, by their zeal, their
disinterestedness,
and constancy in the ser-
vice of mankind,
and by demonstrating,
through their words and deeds, the need and
practicability
of the lofty principles which
the Movement has proclaimed to the world.
4. Again I earnestly appeal to every one
of you, and renew my only request with all
the ardor of my conviction, to make, before
and during the coming Convention, yet an-
other effort, this time more spontaneous and
selfless than before, and endeavor to ap-
proach your task-the
election of your dele-
gates, as well as your national and local
representatives-with
that purity of spirit
that can alone obtain our Beloved's most
cherished desire.
Let us recall His explicit
and often-repeated assurance that every As-
sembly elected in that rarified atmosphere
of selflessness and detachment is, in truth,
appointed of God, that its verdict is truly
inspired, that one and all should submit to
its decision unreservedly and with cheerful-
ness.
Let us first strive to fulfill these conditions,
difficult yet essential, in our lives, so that,
contented and assured, we may make of this
new year of activity a year of abundant
blessings, of unprecedented achievements.
May this dearest wish be fulfilled !
5. Hitherto the National Convention has
been primarily called together for the con-
sideration of the various circumstances at-
tending the election of the National Spiritual
Assembly.
I feel, however, that in view of
the expansion and the growing importance
of the administrative
sphere of the Cause,
the general sentiments and tendencies pre-
vailing among the friends, and the signs of
increasing interdependence
among the Na-
tional Spiritual Assemblies throughout the
world, the assembled accredited representa-
tives of the American believers should exer-
cise not only the vital and responsible right

BAHA'f PROCEDURE
of electing the National Assembly, but should
also fulfill the functions of an enlightened
consultative and cooperative body that will
enrich the experience, enhance the prestige,
support the authority and assist the delibera-
tions of the National Spiritual
Assembly.
It is my firm conviction that it is the bounden
duty, in the interest of the Cause we all love
and serve, of the members of the incoming
National Assembly, once elected by the dele-
gates at Convention time, to seek and have
the utmost regard, individually as well as
collectively, for the advice, the considered
opinion and the true sentiments of the as-
sembled delegates.
Banishing every vestige
of secrecy, of undue reticence, of dictatorial
aloofness, from their midst, they should ra-
diantly unfold to the eyes of the delegates,
by whom they are elected, their plans, their
hopes, and their cares.
They should famil-
iarize the delegates with the various matters
that will have to :be considered in the current
year, and calmly and conscientiously study
and weigh the opinions and judgments of the
delegates.
The newly elected National As-
sembly, during the few days when the Con-
vention is in session and after the dispersal
of the delegates, should seek ways and means
to cultivate
understanding,
facilitate
and
maintain the exchange of views, deepen con-
fidence, and vindicate by every tangible evi-
dence their one· desire to serve and advance
the common weal.
Not infrequently,
nay
oftentimes, the most lowly, untutored and in-
e~erienced
among the friends will, by the
sheer inspiring force of selfless and ardent
devotion, contribute a distinct and memora-
ble share to a highly involved discussion in
any given Assembly.
Great must be the re-
gard paid by those whom the delegates call
upon to serve in high position to this all-
important though inconspicuous manifesta-
tion of the revealing power of sincere :md
earnest devotion.
The National
Spiritual
Assembly, how-
ever, in view of the unavoidable limitations
imposed upon the convening of frequent and
long-standing
sessions of the Convention,
will have to retain in its hands the final de-
cision on all matters that affect the interests
of the Cause in America, such as the right
to decide whether
any local Assembly is
functioning in accordance with the principles
laid down for the conduct and the advance-
ment of the Cause. It is my earnest prayer
that they will utilize their highly responsible
position, not only for the wise and efficient
conduct of the affairs of the Cause, but also
for the extension and deepening of the spirit
of cordiality and wholehearted and mutual
support in their cooperation with the :body of
their co-workers throughout the land.
The
SECTION THREE, SHEET 2
seating of delegates to the Convention, i. e.,
the right to decide upon the validity of the
crede.ntials of the delegates at a given Con-
vention, is vested in the outgoing National
Assembly, and the right to decide who has
the voting :privilege is also ultimately placed
in the hands of the National Spiritual As-
sembly, either when a local Spiritual Assem-
bly is for the first time being formed in a
given locality, or when differences arise be-
tween a new applicant and an already estab-
lished local Assembly. While the Convention
is in session and the accredited delegates
have already elected from among the believ-
ers throughout the country the members of
the National Spiritual Assembly for the cur-
rent year, it is of infinite value and a su-
preme necessity that as far as possible all
matters requiring immediate decision should
·be fully and publicly considered, and an en-
deavor be made to obtain after mature de-
liberation unanimity in vital decisions. In-
deed, it has ever been the cherished desire
of our Master, •Abdu'l-Baha, that the friends
in their councils, local as well as national,
should by their candor, their honesty of pur-
pose, their singleness of mind, and the thor-
oughness of their discussions, achieve unan-
imity in all things.
Should this in certain
cases prove impracticable the verdict of the
majority should prevail, to which decision
the minority must, under all circumstances,
gladly, spontaneously and continually, sub-
mit.
Nothing short of the all--encompassing, all-
pervading power of His Guidance and Love
can enable this newly-enfolded
order
to
gather strength and flourish amid the storm
and stress of a turbulent age, and in the ful-
ness of time vindicate its high claim to be
universally recognized as the one Haven of
abiding felicity and peace.
6. Regarding the method to be adopted for
the election of the National Spiritual Assem-
blies, it is clear that the text of the Beloved's
Testament gives us no indication as to the
manner in which these Assemblies are to
:be elected. In one of His earliest Tablets,
however, addressed to a friend in Persia, the
following is expressly recorded :-
"At whatever time all the beloved of God
in each country appoint their delegates, and
these in turn elect their representatives, and
these representatives' elect a body, that body
shall be regarded as the Supreme Baytu'l-
Adl (Universal House of Justice)."
These words clearly indicate that a three-
stage election has been provided by 'Abdu'l-
Baha for the formation of the International
House of Justice, and as it is explicitly pro-
vided in His Will and Testament that the
"Secondary House of Justice (i. e., National

BAHA't PROCEDURE
Assemblies) must elect the members of the
Universal One," it is obvious that the mem-
bers of the National Spiritual Assemblies
will have to be indirectly elected ,by the body
of the believers in their respective provinces.
In view of these complementary instructions
the principle, set forth in my letter of March
12., 1923, has been established requiring the
believers (the beloved of God) in every coun-
try to elect a certain number of delegates
who, in turn, will elect their national repre-
sentatives
(Secondary House of Justice or
National Spiritual Assembly) whose sacred
obligation and privilege will be to elect in
time God's Universal House of Justice.
Should the a,ppointing of the delegates be
made a part of the functions of local Spir-
itual Assemblies, who are already elected
bodies, the principle of a four-stage election
would be introduced which would be at var-
iance with the provisions explicitly laid down
in the Master's Tablet. On the other hand,
were the local Spiritual Assemblies, the num-
ber of whose members is strictly confined to
nine, to elect directly the members of the
National
Spiritual
Assembly-thus
main-
taining the principle of a three-stage elec-
tion-all
Baha'i localities, which must neces-
sarily differ in numerical strength,
would
then have to share equally in the election of
the National Spiritual
Assembly-a
prac-
tice which would be contrary to fairness and
justice.
Moreover,
the
central
principle
guiding for the present the administration of
the Cause has been to make the Baha'i Na-
tional Spiritual Assemblies as independent
as possible in the conduct of such affairs as
fall within their province, and to lessen the
hampering influence of any institution with-
in their jurisdiction that might, whether di-
rectly or indirectly, impair their authority
and prestige.
7. And now regarding
this forthcoming
Convention, I feel that the dominating pur-
pose inspiring the assembled friends, dele-
gates and visitors alike, should be a twofold
one. The first is a challenge to the individual,
the second a collective responsibility.
The
one seeks to reinforce the motive power of
our spiritual activities, the second aims at
raising the standard of administrative
effi-
ciency so vitally needed at this advanced
stage of our work. We should first and fore-
most endeavor by every means to revitalize
our precious Cause, rudely shaken by the
constant vicissitudes attending the outward
departure of a vigilant and gracious Master.
Our next object should be to seek to ap-
proach, through more intimate association,
fuller and more frequent consultation, and
a closer familiarity with the character, the
mission and the teachings of the Cause, that
SECTION THREE, SHEET 3
standard of excellence which should charac-
terize the cooperative efforts of Baha'i Com-
munities in every land.
High aims and pure motives, however
laudable in themselves, will surely not suffice
if unsupported by measures that are prac-
ticable and methods that are sound. Wealth
of sentiment, abundance of good-will and ef-
fort, will prove of little avail if we should
fail to exercise discrimination and restraint
and neglect to direct their flow along the
most profitable channels.
The unfettered
freedom of the individual should be tempered
with mutual consultation and sacrifice, and
the spirit of initiative and enterprise should
be reinforced by a deeper realization of the
supreme necessity for concerted action and
a fuller devotion to the common weal.
It would be impossible at this stage to
ignore the indispensability
or to over-esti-
mate the unique significance of the institu-
tion of the National Spiritual
Assembly-
the pivot round which revolve the activities
of the believers throughout
the American
continent.
Supreme is their position, grave
their responsibility,
manifold and arduous
their duties. How great the privilege, how
delicate the task of the assembled delegates
whose function it is to elect such national
representatives
as would by their record of
service ennoble and enrich the annals of the
Cause! If we but turn our gaze to the high
qualifications of the members of Baha'i As-
semblies, as enumerated
in 'Abdu'l-Baha's
Tablets, we are filled with feelings of un-
worthiness and dismay, and would feel truly
disheartened but for the comforting thought
that if we rise to play nobly our part every
deficiency in our lives will be more than
compensated by the all-conquering spirit of
His grace and power. Hence it is incumbent
upon the chosen delegates to consider with-
out the least trace of passion and prejudice,
and irrespective of any material considera-
tion, the names of only those who can best
combine the necessary qualities of unques-
tioned loyalty, of selfless devotion, of a well-
trained mind, of recognized ability and ma-
ture experience.
8. In connection with the annual holding
of the Baha'i Convention and Congress, I
feel that although such a representative body
need not be convened necessarily every year,
yet it is highly desirable, in view of the
unique functions it fulfills in promoting har-
mony and good-will, in removing misunder-
standings and in enhancing the prestige of
the Cause, that the National Spiritual As-
sembly should exert itself to gather together
annually the elected representatives
of the
American believers. It would in some ways
be obviously convenient and eminently de-

BAHA't PROCEDURE
sirable though not absolutely essential, if the
National Spiritual Assembly could arrange
that the holding of such a Congress should
synchronize with the time at which the na-
tional elections are renewed, and that both
events should take place, if not on the first
of Ridvan, at least during the twelve joyous
days of what may be justly regarded as the
foremost Baha'i Festival.
Apart from the
local elections which universally are to be
renewed on the 21st day of April, it is en-
tirely lef,t to the discretion of the National
Spiritual
Assembly to decide, after
hav-
ing given due consideration
to the above
mentioned observations,
on whatever time
and place the Baha'i Convention as well
as the annual
elections are to be held.
Were the National Spiritual
Assembly to
decide, after mature deliberation,
to omit
the holding of the Baha'i Convention and
Congress in a given year, then they could,
only in such a case, devise ways and means
to insure that the annual election of the
National
Spiritual
Assembly
should
be
held by mail, provided it can be conducted
with sufficient thoroughness,
efficiency and
dispatch. It should, however, be made clear
to evecy elected delegate-who
should be
continually reminded-that
it is a sacred re-
sponsi,bility and admittedly preferable to at-
tend if possible in person the sessions of the
Convention, to take an active part in all its
proceedings,
and to acquaint
his fellow-
workers on his return with the accomplish-
ments, the decisions and the aspirations of
the assembled representatives of the Ameri-
can believers. It would also appear to me
unobjectionable to enable and even to require
in the last resort such delegates as cannot
possibly undertake the journey to the seat
of the Baha'i Convention to send their votes,
for the election of the National Spiritual As-
sembly only, by mail to the National Secre-
tary, as in my view the advantages of such
a ,procedure outweigh the considerations re-
f erred to in your letter.
9. In connection with the best and most
,practical methods of procedure to be adopted
for the election of Baha'i Spiritual Assem-
blies, I feel that in view of the fact that defi-
nite and detailed regulations
defining the
manner and character
of Baha'i elections
have neither
been expressly
revealed by
Baha'u'llah nor laid down in the Will and
Testament of 'Abdu'l-Baha, it devolves upon
the members of the Universal House of Jus-
tice to formulate and apply such system of
laws as would be in conformity with the es-
sentials and requisites expressly recorded by
the Author and Interpreter
of the Faith for
the conduct of Baha'i administration.
I have
consequently refrained from establishing a
SECTION THREE, SHEET 4
settled and uniform procedure for the elec-
tion of the Assemblies of the East and the
West, leaving them free to pursue their own
methods of procedure which in most cases
had been instituted and practised during the
last two decades of the life of 'Abdu'l-Baha.
The general practice ,prevailing throughout
the East is the one based upon the principle
of plurality rather than absolute majority,
whereby those candidates that have obtained
the highest number of votes, irrespective of
the fact whether they command an absolute
majority of the votes cast or not, are auto-
matically and definitely elected. It has been
felt, with no little justification, that this me-
thod, admittedly disadvantageous in its dis-
regard of the principle that requires that
each elected member must secure a majority
of the votes cast, does away on the other
hand with the more serious disadvantage of
restricting
the freedom of the elector who,
unhampered and unconstrained by electoral
necessities, is called upon to vote for none but
those whom prayer and reflection have in-
spired him to uphold. Moreover, the prac-
tice of nomination, so detrimental to the at-
mosphere of a silent and prayerful election,
is viewed with mistrust inasmuch as it gives
the right to the majority of a body that, in
itself under the present circumstances, often
constitutes a minority of all the elected dele-
gates, to deny that God-given right of every
elector to vote only in favor of those who he
is conscientiously convinced are the most
worthy candidates.
Should this simple sys-
tem be provisionally adopted, it would safe-
guard the spiritual principle of the imfet-
tered freedom of the voter, who will thus
preserve intact the sanctity of the choice he
first made. It would avoid the inconvenience
of securing advance nominations from ab-
sent delegates and the impracticality of as-
sociating them with the assembled electors
in the subsequent ballots that are often re-
quired to meet the exigencies of majority
vote.
I would recommend these observations to
your earnest consideration, and whatever de-
cision you arrive at, all local Assemblies and
individual believers, I am certain, will up-
hold, for their spiritual privilege is not only
to consult. freely and frequently with the
National Spiritual Assembly, but to uphold
as well with confidence and cheerfulness
whatever is the considered verdict of their
national representatives.
10. The Guardian wishes the N. S. A. to re-
mind, and make it quite clear to, the be-
lievers in that land that the supreme body
in the United States and Canada, whose priv.,.
ilege and function is to lay down, amend and
abrogate the administrative principles of the

BAHA't PROCEDURE
Faith with the approval of the Guardian, is
not the Convention, however representative
it may be, but the N. S. A. On the other
hand, it is the sacred obligation and the pri-
mary function of the National Assembly not
to restrict under any circumstances, the free-
dom of the assembled delegates, whose two-
fold function is to elect their national repre-
sentatives and to submit to them any recom-
mendations they may feel inclined to make.
The function of the Convention is purely ad-
visory and though the advice it gives is not
binding in its effect on those on whom rest
the final decision in purely administrative
matters, yet, the utmost caution and care
should be exercised ·lest anything
should
hamper the delegates in the full and free ex-
ercise of their function. In discharging this
sacred function no influence whatever, no
pressure from any quarter, even though it
be from
the National
Assembly, should
under any circumstances affect their views
or restrict
their freedom.
The delegates
must be wholly independent of any adminis-
trative
agency, must approach. their task
with absolute detachment and must concen-
trate their attention on the most important
and pressing issues.
The Guardian believes that the right to
elect the chairman and the secretary of the
Convention
should be vested in the as-
sembled delegates,
lest any objection
be
raised that the members of the outgoing Na-
tional Assembly are seeking to direct the
course of the discussion in a manner that
would be conducive to their own personal
interests.
The National Assembly, however,
must at all times vigilantly uphold, defend,
justify and enforce the provisions of the Dec-
laration of Trust and By-Laws which are
binding on the Convention no less than on
themselves. The N. S. A. has the right to lay
down, enforce and interpret
the National
Constitution of the Baha'is in that land. It
cannot, if it wishes to remain faithful to
that Constitution, lay down any regulations,
however secondary in character, that would
in the least hamper the unrestricted liberty
of the delegates to advise and elect those
whom they feel best combine the necessary
qualifications for membership of so exalted
a body.
Non-delegates, however, according to the
Guardian's considered opinion, should not be
given the right to intervene directly during
the sessions of the Convention. Only through
an accredited delegate they should be given
indirectly the chance to voice their senti-
ments and to participate in the deliberations
of the Convention. Much confusion and com-
plications must inevitably result in the days
to come, if such a restriction be not imposed
SECTION THREE, SHEET 5
on a gathering which is primarily intended
for the accredited delegates of the Baha'i
communities.
Bearing
this restriction
in
mind, it is the duty of the N. S. A. to devise
ways and means which would enable them to
obtain valuable suggestions, not only from
the total number of the elected delegates,
but from as large a body of their fellow-
workers as is humanly possible.
Shoghi Effendi has not departed from any
established
Administrative
principle.
He
feels he has neither ·curtailed the legislative
authority of the N. S. A. nor invested the
Convention with undue powers enabling it
to rival or supersede those whom it has to
elect. What the Guardian is aiming at is to
remind the friends, more fully than before,
of the two cardinal principles of Baha'i Ad-
ministration,
namely, the supreme and un-
challengable authority of the N. S. A. in na-
tional affairs working within the limits im-
posed by the Declaration of Trust and By-
Laws, and the untrammelled freedom of the
Convention delegates to advise, deliberate on
the actions, and appoint the successors of
their National Assembly. The Guardian is
confident that you will elucidate and give
the widest publicity to these already estab-
lished principles, upon which the progress,
the unity and welfare of Baha'i administra-
tive institutions must ultimately depend.
The utmost care and vigilance should be
exercised lest any fresh misunderstandings
arise regarding
these fundamental
issues.
The root principle of Baha'i Administration
is unreservedly maintained.
No departure
from its established tenets is contemplated.
The undisputed authority of America's su-
preme Baha'i administrative
:body has been
reaffirmed, while on the other hand, the un-
trammelled freedom of individual believers
and delegates to exercise their functions has
been once again reaffirmed and strengthened.
On the continuous and harmonious coopera-
tion of the two leading Baha'i institutions in
America, the growth and success of the ad-
ministration
bequeathed
by 'Abdu'l-Baha
must ultimately depend.
May next year's
Convention witness the triumph
of these
basic principles.
11. Concerning the status, rights and pre-
rogatives of the Annual Baha'i Convention,
the Guardian wishes to make it quite clear
to all the believers that this annual meeting
of the delegates is by no means a continuous
consultative body all through the year; that
its twofold function of electing the body of
the National Spiritual Assembly, and of of-
fering any constructive
suggestions in re-
gard to the general administration
of the
Cause is limited to a definite period; and that
consequently
the opinion current
among

BAHA't PROCEDURE
some of the believers that the delegates are
to serve as a consultative body throughout
the year is at variance with the fundamental, .
though as yet unspecified, principles under-
lying the Administration..
Shoghi Effendi
firmly believes that consultation
must be
maintained between the N. S. A. and the en-
tire body of the believers, and that such con-
sultation, while the Convention is not in ses-
sion, can best be maintained
through the
agency of the local Assemblies, one of whose
essential functions is to act as intermediaries
between the local communities and their na-
tional representatives.
The main purpose of
the Nineteen Day Feasts is to enable indi-
vidual believers to offer any suggestion to
the local Assembly which in its turn will
pass it to the N. S. A. The local Assembly is,
therefore, the -proper medium through which
local Baha'i communities can communicate
with the body of the national representatives.
The Convention should be regarded as a tem-
porary
gathering,
having certain
specific
functions to perform, during a limited period
of time. Its status is thus limited in time to
the Convention sessions, the function of con-
sultation at all other times being vested in
the entire body of the believers through the
local Spiritual Assemblies.
12. I wish to affirm without the least hesi-
tation or ambiguity, that the annual conven-
tion is not to be regarded as a body entitled
to exercise functions similar to those which
an ordinary
parliament
possesses under a
democratic form of government. The admin-
istrative order which lies embedded in the
Teaching
of Baha'u'llah,
and which the
American believers have championed and are
now esta;blishing, should, under no circum-
stances, be identified with the principles un-
derlying present-day democracies. Nor is it
identical with any purely aristocratic or auto-
cratic form of government. The objectionable
features inherent in each of these ipolitcal
systems are entirely avoided. It blends, as no
system of human polity has as yet achieved,
those salutary truths.and beneficial elements
which constitute the valuable contributions
which each of these forms of government
have made to society in the past. Consulta-
tion, frank and unfettered,
is the bedrock
of this unique order. Authority is concen-
trated in the hands of the elected members
of the National Assembly. Power and ini-
tiative are primarily
vested in the entire
body of the believers acting through their
local representatives.
To generate
those
forces which must give birth to the body of
their national administrators,
and to confer,
freely and fully and at fixed intervals, with
both the incoming and outgoing national As-
semblies, are the twofold functions, the su-
SECTION THREE, SHEET 6
preme responsibility and sole prerogative of
the
delegates
assembled
in
Convention.
Nothing short of close and constant inter-
action
between these various
organs
of
Baha'i administration
can enable it to fulfill
its high destiny.
13. Concerning the status of members of
the N. S. A. at Convention sessions, the
Guardian feels that the members both of the
incoming
and
the
outgoing
Assemblies
should be given the .full right to participate
in the Convention discussions. Those mem-
bers of the N. S. A. who have been elected
delegates will, in addition to the right of par-
ticipation, be entitled to vote. The Guardian
wishes thereby to render more effective the
deliberations
and the recommendations
of
the national representatives.
He feels that •
the exercise of such a right by the members
of the N. S. A. will enable them to consult
more fully with the assembled delegates, to
exchange fully and frankly with them their
views, and io consider collectively the inter-
ests, needs and requirements of the Cause.
This he believes is one of the primary f unc-
tions of the Convention.-SHOGHI EFFENDI.
THE ANNUAL BAHA'I
CONVENTION
1. The Annual Baha'i Convention has two
unique functions to fulfill, discussion of cur-
rent Baha'i matters and the election of the
National Spiritual Assembly. The discussion
should be free and untrammeled, the election
carried on in that spirit of prayer and med-
itation in which alone every delegate can
render obedience to the Guardian's expressed
wish. After the Convention is convened by
the Chairman of the National Spiritual As-
sembly, and after the roll call is read by the
Secretary of the Assembly, the Convention
proceeds to the election of its chairman and
secretary by secret ballot and without ad-
vance nomination, according to the standard
set for all Baha'i elections.
2. Non-delegates may not participate
in
Convention discussion. All members of the
National Spiritual
Assembly may partici-
pate in the discussion, but only those mem-
bers who have been elected delegates may
vote on any matter brought up for vote dur-
ing the proceedings.
3. The outgoing National Spiritual Assem-
bly is responsible for rendering reports of
its own activities and of those carried on by
its committees during the past year. The an-
nual election is to be held at a point midway
during the Convention sessions, so that the
incoming Assembly may consult with the
delegates.
The Convention is free to discuss any

BAHA't PROCEDURE
Baha'i matter, in addition to those treated
in the annual reports. The Convention is re-
sponsible for making its own rules of pro-
cedure controlling discussion; for example,
concerning any limitations the delegates may
find it necessary to impose upon the time al-
lotted to or claimed by any one delegate. The
National Assembly will maintain the rights
of the delegates to confer freely and fully,
free from any restricted pressure, in the ex-
ercise of their function.
5. The Convention as an organic body is
limited to -the actual Convention period. It
has no function to discharge after the close
of the sessions except that of electing a mem-
ber or members to fill any vacancy that
might arise in the membership of the Na-
tional Spiritual Assembly during the year.
6. The Convention while in session has no
independent legislative, executive or judicial
function.
Aside from its action in electing
the National Spiritual Assembly, its discus-
sions do not represent
actions but recom-
mendations
which shall, according to the
Guardian's instructions, be given conscienti-
ous consideration by the National Assembly.
7. The National Spiritual Assembly is the
supreme Baha'i administrative
body within
the American Baha'i community, and ,its
jurisdiction
continues without interruption
during the Convention period as during the
remainder of the year, and independently of
the individuals composing its membership.
Any matter requiring action of legislative,
executive or judicial nature, whether arising
during the Convention period or at any other
time, is to be referred to the National Spir-
itual Assembly. The National Assembly is
responsible for upholding the administrative
principles applying to the holding of the An-
nual Convention as it is for upholding all
other administrative
principles.
If, there-
fore, a Convention departs from the ,princi-
ples laid down for Conventions by the Guar-
dian, and exceeds the limitations of function
conferred upon it, in that case, and in that
case alone, the National Spiritual Assembly
can and must intervene.
It is the National
Spiritual Assembly, and not the Convention,
which is authorized to decide when and why
such intervention is required.
8. The National Spiritual Assembly feels
that it owes a real duty to the delegates, and
to the entire body of believers, in presenting
any and all facts that may be required in
order to clarify matters
discussed at the
Convention.
There can be no true Baha'i
consultation
at this important
meeting if
any incomplete or erroneous view should pre-
vail.
9. The National Assembly in adopting and
issuing this statement, does so in the sincere
SECTION .THREE, SHEET 7
effort to assure the constitutional
freedom
of the Convention to fulfill its high mission.
The path of true freedom lies in knowing and
obeying the general ,principles given to all
Baha'is for the proper conduct of their col-
lective
affairs.
While the
entire
world
plunges forward to destruction, it is the re-
sponsibility of the National Spiritual Assem-
bly to uphold that Order on which .peace and
security solely depends.-N.
S. A.
Your statement on the Convention is ad-
mirable. The Guardian fully endorses it and
wishes you to send as promptly as you can
a copy of it to the Persian N. S. A. for their
instruction and guidance.-SH0GHI
EFFENDI.
A PROCEDURE FOR THE
CONDUCT OF THE AN-
NUAL BAHA'i CONVEN-
TION
INTRODUCTION
The Guardian's references to the Annual
Convention have been compiled and pub-
lished in two issues of Baha'i News-Nov-
ember, 1933 and February, 1934. *
I. THE ANNUAL BAHA'i
CONVENTION
A summary of the constitutional basis of
the Convention has been made by the Na-
tional Spiritual Assembly and approved by
the Guardian.
It was published in Baha'i
News for April, 1935. Special reference is
made to the seven numbered paragraphs
in
that summary.**
II. CONVENTION CALL
The National Spiritual
Assembly deter-
mines the date, duration and place of the
Annual Convention and provides for such
meetings in connection with the Convention
as it may feel are desirable.
III. CONVENTION
PROCEDURE
The
Twenty-sixth
Annual
Convention,
held in 1934, voted a recommendation calling
upon the National Spiritual Assembly to sup-
ply a parliamentary
procedure for the con-
duct of the Annual Convention, and the pre-
sent material has been prepared to meet the
need indicated by that recommendation.
* This compilation has likewise been reproduced
in the present work.
** See previous pages in the present work.

BAHA't PROCEDURE
Order of Business
Prayer and devotional readings, provided
by the outgoing National Spiritual Assem-
bly.
Opening of Convention by Presiding Offi-
cer of the National Spiritual Assembly.
Roll call of delegates by the Secretary of
the National Spiritual Assembly.
Election by secret ballot of Convention
Chairman and Secretary.
The Convention
Officers are to be elected by the assembled
delegates from among the entire number of
delegates who are present at the Convention.
Annual Report of National Spiritual As-
sembly.
Annual
Financial
Report
of National
Spiritual Assembly.
Convention message to the Guardian of
the Faith.
Annual Committee Reports: these are· to
be considered as part of the Report of the
National
Spiritual
Assembly.
They are
whenever possible published in Baha'i News
in advance of the Convention date, for the
information of the delegates.
Subjects for Consultation.
Any delegate
may, before the Convention convenes, rec-
ommend to the National Assembly such top-
ics as he deems of sufficient importance to be
included in the Convention agenda; and the
National Spiritual Assembly, from the list
of topics received from delegates, and also
suggested by its own knowledge and e:x;peri-
ence, is to prepare an agenda or order of
business as its recommendation to the Con-
vention.
This agenda may include, as part of the
National Assembly's Annual Report, the pre-
sentation of special subjects by well quali-
fied members, committee representatives
or
non-Baha'i experts whose exposition is ne-
cessary or desirable for the information of
the delegates.
On motion duly made, seconded and voted,
any such subject may be omitted, and also
on motion duly made, seconded and voted,
any other subject may be proposed for spe-
cial consultation.
Annual election. The election of members
of the National Spiritual Assembly is to take
place approximately midway during the Con-
vention sessions, so as to enable the dele-
gates to consult with both the outgoing and
incoming Assemblies, in accordance with the
Guardian's expressed desire.
Conduct of Business
Every deliberate body, to fulfill its func-
tions, must conduct its deliberations in ac-
cordance with some established
rules of
SECTION THREE, SHEET 8
order.
The parliamentary
procedure here
set forth for the Convention is based upon
the procedure already adopted for meetings
of local Assemblies and communities. It ac-
cordingly extends to sessions of the Annual
Convention the same procedure under which
the delegates, in their other Baha'i activi-
ties, are accustomed to conduct discussion
and consultation.
The purpose of consultation at the Annual
Convention is threefold:
to arrive at full
and complete knowledge of the current con-
ditions, problems and possibilities of the
Faith in America; to give to the incoming
National Assembly the :benefit of the col-
lective wisdom, ·guidance and constructive
suggestions of the assembled delegates; and
to contribute to the unity, in spirit and in ac-
tion, of the entire American Baha'i com-
m unity.
The freedom of each and every delegate
to take part in discussion and to initiate mo-
tions is untrammeled save as the undue ac-
tivity of one delegate might hamper the
rights of the other delegates. Any necessary
limitation to be placed upon individual dis-
cussion shall be determined by the Chair-
man in the absence of any specific motion
duly voted by the delegates themselves.
It shall be the duty of the Chairman to
encourage general consultation
and make
possible the active participation of the great-
est possible number of delegates.
The Chairman has the same power and re-
sponsibility for discussion and voting upon
motions as other delegates. Members of the
outgoing and incoming National Assembly
who are not delegates may participate in the
consultation but not vote.
A resolution, or motion, is not subject to
discussion or vote until duly made and sec-
onded. It is preferable to have each resolu-
tion clear and complete in itself, but when an
amendment is duly made and seconded, the
Chairman shall call for a vote on the amend-
ment first and then on the motion. An
amendment must be relevant to, and not con-
travene, the subject matter of the motion.
The Chairman shall call for votes by oral
expression of ayes and nays, but where the
result of the vote is doubtful by a show of
hands or a rising vote. A majority vote de-
termines.
Discussion of any matter may be termin-
ated by motion duly made, seconded and
voted, calling upon the Chairman to bring
the matter to an immediate vote or proceed
to other business.
The transactions of the Convention shall
be recorded by the Secretary, and when cer-

BAHA't PROCEDURE
tified by the Convention officers shall ,be
given to the National Spiritual Assembly.
Annual Election
The electors in the Annual Election shall
consist of those delegates included in the
Roll Call prepared by the National Spiritual
Assembly.
Ballots and tellers' report forms shall be
provided by the National Assembly.
The election shall be conducted by the Con-
vention, but delegates unable to attend the
Convention shall have the right to vote by
mail.
The Chairman shall appoint three tellers,
chosen from among the assembled delegates.
The electoral method shall be as follows :
1. The Convention Secretary shall call the
roll of delegates, whereupon each delegate,
in turn, shall place his or her ballot in a bal-
lot box ; and as the names are called ballots
received by mail shall be placed in the bal-
lot box by the Secretary of the National As-
sembly.
2. The ballot ,box shall then be handed to
the tellers, who shall retire from the Con-
vention Hall to determine the result of the
election.
3. The result of the election is to be re-
ported by the tellers, and the tellers' report
is to be approved by the Convention.
4. The ballots, together with the tellers'
report, certified by all the tellers, are to be
given the National Spiritual Assembly for
preservation.
SECTION THREE, SHEET 9
IV. THE CONVENTION
RECORD
The permanent record of each successive
Annual Convention shall consist of the fol-
lowing:-
( l) Convention Call as issued by
the National Spiritual Assembly, including
list of Participating
Baha'i ·Communities;
(2) list of accredited delegates; (3) Annual
Reports of the National Spiritual Assembly
and of its Committees; ( 4) Messages sent to
and received from the Guardian;
(5) Reso-
lutions and other transactions of the assem-
bled delegates; (6) The result of the Annual
Election.-N.
S. A.
NO REFERENCE TO
PERSONALITIES
I feel that reference to personalities be-
fore the election would give rise to misunder-
standing and differences. What the friends
should do is to get thoroughly acquainted
with one another, to exchange views, to mix
freely and discuss among themselves the re-
quirements
and qualifications for such a
membership without reference or applica-
tion, however indirect, to partieular
indi-
viduals. We should refrain from influencing
the opinion of others, of canvassing for any
particular
individual, but should stress the
necessity of getting fully acquainted with
the qualifications of membership referred to
in our Beloved's Tablets and of learning
more a:bout one another through direct, per-
sonal experience rather than through the re-
ports and opinions of our f riends.-SHOGHI
EFFENDI.

BAHA't PROCEDURE
THE INSTITUTION OF THE
NATIONAL SPIRITUAL
ASSEMBLY
Regarding the establishment of "National
Assemblies," it is of vital importance that .
in every country, where the conditions are
favorable and the number of friends has
grown and reached a considerable size, such
as America, Great Britain and Germany,
that a "National Spiritual Assembly" be im-
meidately established, representative
of the
friends throughout that country.
Its immediate purpose is to stimulate,
unify and coordinate by frequent personal
consultations, the manifold activities of the
friends as well as the local Assemblies; and
by keeping in close and constant touch with
the Holy Land, initiate measures, and direct
in general the affairs of the Cause in that
Country.
It serves also another purpose, no less es-
sential than the first, as in the course of
time it shall evolve into the National House
of Justice
(referred
to in •Abdu'l-Baha's
Will as the "secondary House of Justice"),
which according to the explicit text of the
Testament will have, in conjunction with the
other National Assemblies throughout
the
Baha'i world, to elect directly the members
of the International
House of Justice, that
Supreme Council that will guide, organize
and unify the affairs
of the Movement
throughout the world.
This National Spiritual Assembly, which,
pending the establishment of the Universal
House of Justice, will have to be re-elected
once a year, obviously assumes grave respon-
sibilities, for it has to exercise full authority
over all the local Assemblies in its province,
and will have to direct the activities of the
friends, guard vigilantly the Cause of God,
and control and supervise the affairs of the
Movement in general.
Vital issues, affecting the interests of the
Cause in that country such as the matter of
translation and publication, the Mashriqu'l-
Adh~ar, the Teaching Work, and other sim-
ilar matters that stand distinct from strictly
local affairs, must be under the full jurisdic-
tion of the National Assembly.
It will have to refer each of these ques-
tions, even as the local Assemblies, to a spe-
cial Committee, to be elected by the mem-
bers of the National Spiritual
Assembly,
from among all the friends in that country,
which will bear to it the same relation as the
local committees bear to their respective
local Assemblies.
With it, too, rests the decision whether a
certain point at issue is strictly local in its
nature, and should be reserved for the con-
SECTION FOUR, SHEET 1
sideration and d~ision of the local Assembly,
or whether it should fall under its own prov-
ince and be regarded as a matter which
ought to receive its special attention.
The
National Spiritual Assembly will also decide
upon such matters
which in its opinion
should be referred to the Holy Land for con-
sultation and decision.
With these Assemblies, local as well as
national, harmoniously, vigorously, and effi-
ciently functioning
throughout
the Baha'i
world, the only means for the establishment
of the Supreme House of Justice will have
been secured. And when this Supreme Body
will have been properly established, it will
have to consider afresh the whole situation,
and lay down the principle which shall di-
rect, so long as it deems advisable, the affairs
of the Cause.
The need for the centralization of auth-
ority in the National Spiritual Assembly,
and the concentration of power in the vari-
ous local Assemblies, is made manifest when
we reflect that the Cause of Baha'u'llah is
still in its age of tender growth and in a
stage of transition ; when we remember that
the full implications and the exact signifi-
cance of the Master's world-wide instruc-
tions, as laid down in His Will, are as yet
not fully grasped, and the whole Movement
has not sufficiently crystallized in the eyes
of the world.
It is primarily upon the elected members
of the National Spiritual Asemblies through-
out the Baha'i world that this highly impor-
tant duty devolves, as in their hands the di-
rection and management
of all spiritual
Baha'i activities have been placed and cen-
tralized, and as they constitute in the eyes
of the people of their country the supreme
body in that land that officially represents,
promotes and safeguards the various inter-
ests of the Cause, it is my fervent prayer
and my most cherished desire, that the un-
failing guidance of Baha'u'llah and the bless-
ings of our beloved Master will enable them
to set a high and true example to all other
Baha'i institutions and local Assemblies, and
will show them what absolute harmony, ma-
ture deliberation and whole-hearted coopera-
tion can achieve.
Should such a representative
and respon-
sible body fail to realize this fundamental
requisite for all successful achievement, the
whole structure is sure to crumble, and the
Great Plan of the Future, as unfolded by the
Master's Will and Testament, will be rudely
disturbed and grievously delayed.
The Guardian wishes me to again affirm
his view that the authority of the N. S. A.
is undivided and unchallengeable in all mat-
ters pertaining to the administration of the
Faith throughout
the United States and

BAHA't PROCEDURE
Canada, and that, therefore, the obedience
of individual Baha'is, delegates, groups and
Assemblies to that authority is imperative,
and should be wholehearted and unqualified.
He is convinced that the unreserved accep-
tance and complete application of this vital
provision of the Administration
is essential
to the maintenance of the highest degree of
unity amongst the believers, and is indis-
pensable to the effective working of the ad-
ministrative machinery of the Faith in every
country.
I wish to reaffirm in clear and categori-
cal language, the principle already enun-
ciated upholding the supreme authority of
the National Assembly in all matters that
affect the interests
of the Faith in that
land.
There can be no conflict of author-
ity, no duality under any form or circum-
stances in any sphere of Baha'i jurisdic-
tion whether local, national or international.
The National Assembly, however, although
the sole interpreter
of its Declaration of
Trust and By-Laws, is directly and moral-
ly responsible if it allows any body or in-
stitution
within its jurisdiction
to a;buse
its privileges or to decline in the exercise of
its rights and privileges. It is the trusted
guardian and the mainspring of the manifold
activities and interests
of every national
community in the Baha'i world. It consti-
tutes the sole link that binds these communi-
ties to the International
House of Justice,
the supreme administrative body in the Dis-
pensation of Baha'u'llah.
Anything whatsoever affecting the inter-
ests of the Cause and in which the National
Assembly as a body is involved should, if
regarded as unsatisfactory
by local Assem-
blies and individual believers, be immedi-
ately referred to the National Assembly it-
self. Neither the general body of the believ-
ers, nor any local Assembly, nor even the
delegates to the Annual ·Convention, should
be regarded as having any authority to en-
tertain appeals against the decision of the
National Assembly. Should the matter be re-
ferred to the Guardian it will be his duty to
consider it with the utmost care and to de-
cide whether the issues involved justify him
to consider it in person, or to leave it entirely
to the discretion of the National Assembly.
This administrative
prindple
which the
Guardian is now restating and emphasizing
is so clear, so comprehensive and simple that
no misunderstanding as to its application, he
feels, can :possibly arise. There are no excep-
tions whatever to this rule, and the Guardian
would deprecate any attempt to elaborate or
dwell any further
upon this fundamental
and clearly-enunciated
principle.-SHOGHI
EFFENDI.
SECTION FOUR, SHEET 2
LEGAL CONSTITUTION OF
NATIONAL AND LOCAL
ASSEMBLIES
In this connection he wishes me to inform
you that at his repeated directions the Na-
tional Assemblies of Egypt, 'Iraq and Persia
are adopting the exact text of your Assem-
bly's Declaration of Trust and By-Laws, as
well as the local By-Laws, and are taking the
necessary steps for incorporating their As-
semblies as duly recognized
bodies em-
powered to administer the national and local
affairs of the Faith in their respective coun-
tries. The Indian N. S. A., as well as the
Bombay Spiritual Asembly, have already set
the example in this respeet, both in the mat-
ter of incorporation, and in the adoption of
the text of the constitµtions of the American
Baha'i Assemblies.-SHOGHI EFFENDI.
CHANGES IN
MEMBERSHIP
Shoghi Effendi has never said that the
members of the National Assembly have to
be renewed partially every year. The impor-
tant thing is that they should be properly
elected. It would be nice if there should be
new members elected, for new blood always
adds to the energy of the group and will keep
up their spirit.
But this depends entirely
upon the will of the delegates as represented
in the result of their voting.-SHOGHI EF-
FENDI.
THE NATIONAL BAHA't
FUND
And as the progress and extension of
spiritual
activities is dependent and con-
ditioned upon material means, it is of abso-
lute necessity that immediately after the es-
tablishment of local as well as national Spir-
itual Assemblies, a Baha'i Fund be estab-
lished, to be placed under the exclusive con-
trol of the Spiritual Assembly. All donations
and contributions
should be offered the
Treasurer of the Assembly, for the express
purpose of promoting the interests of the
Cause, throughout that locality or country.
It is the sacred obligation of every consci-
entious and faithful servant of Baha'u'llah
who desires to see His Cause advance, to con-
tribute freely and generously for the increase
of that Fund. The members of the Spiritual
Assembly will at their own diseretion ex-
pend it to promote the Teaching Campaign,
to help the needy, to establish educational
Baha'i institutions, to extend in every way

BAHA't PROCEDURE
possible their sphere of service. I cherish
the hope that all the friends, realizing the
necessity of this measure, will bestir them-
selves and contribute, however modestly at
first, towards the speedy establishment and
the increase of that Fund.-Baha'i
Admin-
istration, pp. 36-37.
We must be like the fountain or spring
that is continually emptying itself of all that
it has and is continually being refilled from
an invisible source. To be continually giving
out for the good of our fellows undeterred
by the fear of poverty and reliant on the
unfailing bounty of the Source of all wealth
and all good-this
is the secret of right liv-
ing.-Baha'i
News, September, 1926.
With regard to the Baha'i Fund, recently
established amongst the friends, I trust that
the matter now stands clear to everyone
throughout the country.
As I have previ-
ously intimated, although individual friends
and local Assemblies are absolutely free to
specify the object and ,purpose of their dona-
tions to the National Spiritual Assembly,
yet, in my opinion, I regard it of the utmost
vital importance that individuals, as well as
local Assemblies, throughout the land should,
in view of the paramount importance of Na-
tional Teaching and as an evidence of their
absolute confidence in their national repre-
sentatives, endeavor, however small at first,
to contribute freely towards the upkeep and
the increase of the National Baha'i Fund,
so that the members of the National Assem-
bly may at their full discretion expend it for
whatever they deem urgent and necessary.
-Baha'i
Administration, p. 47.
In connection with the institution of the
National Fund and the budgetary system set
forth in the Minutes of the National Spir-
itual Assembly, I feel urged to remind you
of the necessity of ever ·bearing in mind the
cardinal principle that all contributions to
the Fund are to be purely and strictly vol-
untary in character. It should be made clear
and evident to every one that any form of
compulsion, however
slight and indirect,
strikes at the very root of the principle un-
derlying the formation
of the Fund ever
since its inception. While appeals of a gen-
eral character, carefully worded and moving
and dignified in tone are welcome under all
circumstances, it should be left entirely to
the discretion of every conscientious believer
to decide upon the nature, the amount, and
purpose of his or her contribution for the
propagation of the Cause.-Baha'i
Admin-
istration, ,p. 92.
He wishes you particularly to impress the
believers with the necessity of maintaining
the flow of their contributions to. the Temple,
and also to stress the importance of the in-
SECTION FOUR, SHEET 3
stitution of the National Baha'i Fund which,
in these early days of the administrative de-
velopment of the Faith, is the indispensable
medium for the growth and expansion of the
Movement. Contributions to this fund con-
stitute, in addition, a practical and effective
way whereby every believer can test the
measure and character of his faith, and to
prove in deeds the intensity of his devotion
and attachment to the Cause. -Baha'i
News,
November, 1934.
As the activities of the American Baha'i
community e~nd,
and its worldwide pres-
tige correspondingly increases, the institu-
tion of the National Fund, the bedrock on
which all other institutions must necessarily
rest and be established, acquires added im-
portance, and should be increasingly sup-
ported by the entire body of the believers,
both in their
individual
capacities,
and
through their collective efforts, whether or-
ganized as groups or as local Assemblies.
The supply of funds, in support of the Na-
tional Treasury, constitutes, at the pi'esent
time, the life-blood of these nascent institu-
tions you are laboring to erect. Its impor-
tance cannot, surely, be over-estimated. Un-
told blessings shall no doubt crown every
effort directed to that end.-Baha'i
News,
October, 1935.--SHOGHI EFFENDI.
ANONYMOUS
CONTRIBU-
TIONS TO THE NATIONAL
FUND
In view of the Guardian's instruction that
contributions are not to be accepted from
non-Baha'is for the Temple and other or-
ganic work of the Cause, but be used for
humanitarian purposes, a difficulty is created
for the N. S. A. whenever the Treasurer re-
ceives a contribution
from an unknown
source. Unless it knows the actual donor, the
Assembly is compelled to regard anonymous
contributions as coming from a non-Baha'i.
Such contributions have recently been ap-
plied to the Publishing Committee for m.ak-
. ing gift subscriptions
of World Order to
Public Liibraries and institutions of general
welfare.-N.
S. A.
COMMITTEES OF THE
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY
Large issues in such spiritual activities
that affect the Cause in general in that land,
such as the management of the "Star of the
West" and any periodical which the National
Body may decide to be a Baha'i organ, the
matter of publication, of reprinting
Baha'i
literature and its distribution among the var-
ious Assemblies, the means whereby the
teaching campaign may be stimulated and

BAHA't PROCEDURE
maintained,
the work of the Mashriqu'l-
Adhkar, the racial question in relation to the
Cause, the matter of receiving Orientals and
association with them, the care and main-
tenance of the precious film exhibiting a
phase of the Master's sojourn in the United
States of America as ,well as the original
matrix and the records of His voice, and
various other national spiritual
activities,
far from being under the exclusive juris-
diction of any local Assembly or group of
friends, must each be minutely and fully di-
rected by a special board, elected by the Na-
tional Body, constituted
as a committee
thereof, responsible to it and upon which the
National Body shall exercise constant and
general supervision.-SH0GHI
EFFENDI.
REPORTS OF ACTIVITIES
I shall always await from the members of
the National Spiritual Assembly, collective,
official and comprehensive reports on their
manifold activities, sent to me at frequent
intervals, and bearing upon the inner and
outward currents of the Movement, the re-
lations of Assemblies to one another, and the
general standing and the various aspects of
the progress of the Cause throughout the
land. I would welcome more specific reports
sent to me by the various committees of the
National Spiritual Assembly, enclosed in the
National Assembly's letter, and approved by
all its members.-SH0GHI
EFFENDI.
RELATIONS OF COM-·
MITTEES TO ASSEMBLY
Touching the recent decision of the Na-
tional Spiritual Assembly to place as much
as possible of the current details of the work
in the hands of its national committees, I
feel I should point out that this raises a fun-
damental issue of paramount importance, as
it involves a unique ,prindple in the adminis-
tration of the Cause, governing the relations
that should be maintained between the cen-
tral administrative
body and its assisting
organs of executive and legislative action.
As it has been observed already, the role of
these committees set up by the National Spir-
itual Assembly, the renewal, the membership
and functions of which should be reconsid-
ered separately each year by the incoming
National Assembly, is chiefly to make thor-
ough and expert study of the issue entrusted
to their charge, advise by their reports, and
assist in the execution of the decisions which
in vital matters are to be exclusively and
directly rendered by the National Assembly.
The utmost vigilance, the most strenuous
exertion is required by them if they wish to
fulfill as befits their high and responsible
SECTION FOUR, SHEET 4
calling, the functions which it is theirs to dis-
charge. They should, within the limits im-
posed upon them by present-day
circum-
stances, endeavor to maintain the balance in
such a manner that the evils of over-cen-
tralization which clog, confuse and in the
long run depreciate the value of the Baha'i
services rendered shall on one hand be en-
tirely avoided, and on the other the perils
of utter decentralization with the consequent
lapse of governing authority from the hands
of the national representatives of the believ-
ers definitely averted. The absorption of the
petty details of Baha'i administration by the
personnel of the National Spiritual Assem-
bly is manifestly injurious to efficiency and
an expert discharge of Baha'i duties, whil_st
the granting of undue discretion to bodies
that should be regarded in no other light
than that of expert advisers and executive
assistants
would jeopardize the very vital
and pervading powers that are the sacred
prerogatives of bodies that in time will evolve
into Baha'i National Houses of Justice.
I
am fully aware of the strain and sacrifice
which a loyal adherence to such an essential
principle of Baha'i administration-a
prin-
ciple that will at once ennoble and dis-
tinguish the Baha'i methods of administra-
tion from the prevailing
systems of the
world-demands
from the national repre-
sentatives of the believers at this early stage
of our evolution. Yet I feel I cannot refrain
from stressing the broad lines along which
the affairs of the Cause should be increas-
ingly conducted, the knowledge of which is
so essential at this formative period of Baha'i
administrative
institutions.-SH0GHI
EF-
FENDI.
The focal point of effort on the part of the
National Spiritual Assembly is to encourage
greater initiative and activity among all lo-
cal Baha'i communities.
In the ,gradual application of this princi-
ple, the Assembly has found it desirable to
make a distinction between the special ser-
vices rendered by each National Committee
and the general problem of making these ser-
vices available throughout the body of the
Cause.
It has therefore been voted to record the
fact that the function of each Committee is
of an advisory rather than of an adminis-
trative character.
The results of Committee
consultation are to be referred to the Na-
tional Spiritual Assembly for approval, and
then (as far as possible) after approval, is-
sued to the friends in Baha'i News.
Thus
will be established one definite, responsible
channel of communication representing the
National Assembly and its committees as
one spiritual unit and organism.

BAHA'I PROCEDURE
The National Spiritual Assembly assumes
responsibility
for applying Committee rec-
ommendations and plans to the conditions of
local community life, and also for meeting
any administrative problems that may arise
therefrom.
Each Committee is requested to
submit, as far as possible its recommenda-
tions and suggestions in a form adapted to
publication in Baha'i News for the inf orma-
tion and encouragement of all believers.
In explaining this general principle, the
National Assembly is conscious of the fact
that the National Committees are entrusted
with different types of activity. For example,
the three Summer School Committees not
only make ·programs but carry them out in
classes, while the
Publishing
Committee
has its own continuous and direct contact
with communities and individual believers
through the sale of the literature.
The es-
sential principle, however, is clear, and the
members of the Assembly believe that as
time goes on the result will be a tremendous
concentration of our collective spiritual and
material resources for the development of
the Cause along the lines laid down by the
Guardian.-N.
S. A.
THE UNITY OF THE
BAHA'I COMMUNITY
As we gather our energies in order to
strive for a full measure of success in Tem-
ple construction and other national Baha'i
activities, it is highly important to under-
stand clearly the new attitudes and princi-
ples of action which Shoghi Effendi has es-
tablished in the communications describing
the World Order of Baha'u'llah.
Let us begin with these words found on
page 12 of "America and the Most Great
Peace" ;-"The
remaining ten years (1923-
1933) , distinguished throughout by further
internal development, as well as by a notable
expansion of the international activities of a
growing community, witnessed the comple-
tion of the superstructure
of the Mashriqu'l-
Adhkar-the
Administration's
mighty bul-
wark, the symbol of its strength and the sign
of its future glory."
This description
of the Temple as the
"bulwark" of the Administrative
Order car-
ries a profound significance.
It can only
mean that it is imperative for us to carry
the construction forward to the first resting
place-the
external decoration of the entire
dome unit, including the clerestory section-
in order to create a means of protecting the
Faith from the dire onslaughts it is destined
to suffer in these coming years.
With that quotation let us consider an-
other excerpt from page 64 of "The Dispen-
SECTION FOUR, SHEET 5
sation of Baha'u'llah."
"The rise and establishment of this Ad-
ministrative
Order-the
shell that shields
and enshrines so precious a gem--constitutes
the hall-mark of this second and formative
age of the Baha'i era.
It will come to be
regarded, as it recedes farther and farther
from our eyes, as the chief agency empow-
ered to usher in the concluding phase, the
consummation
of this glorious Dispensa-
tion."
Here the Guardian makes it clear that the
fundamental aim of the Cause at this stage
is to establish the Order which will (page 52
of the same communication)
"assert
its
claim and demonstrate
its capacity to be
regarded not only as the nucleus but the
very pattern of the New World Order des-
tined to embrace in the fulness of time the
whole of ,mankind."
Whiat the Guardian
feels it necessary for Baha'is to realize and
appreciate is that this Faith is a reality in
no wise merely repeating and duplicating the
Revelations of the past. "It should be noted
( page 53) in this connection that this Ad-
ministrative
Order is fundamentally
differ-
ent from anything that any Prophet has
previously established, inasmuch as Baha'u'l-
lah has Himself revealed its principles, es-
tablished its institutions, appointed the per-
son to interpret His Word and conferred the
necessary authority on the body designed to
supplement and apply His legislative ordi-
nances ....
Nowhere in the sacred scriptures
of any of the world's religious systems, nor
even in the writings of the Inaugurator
of
the Ba.bi Dispensation, do we find any pro-
visions establishing a covenant or providing
for an administrative
order that can com-
pare in scope and authority with those that
lie at the very basis of the Baha'i Dispen-
sation."
Thus it is clear that any believer who
might seek to understand his relation to the
Baha'i Faith by reproducing the attitudes
and principles controlling the early and most
faithful Christians, would fail to base his
faith and practice upon the new foundation.
What we have given us today is not only the
spiritual Revelation for the renewal of the
inner life but also the social Revelation for
the attainment
of citizenship in the world
community.
A vivid light is thrown upon the si•gnific-
ance of the Administrative
Order by this
reference which the Guardian made on page
21 of the "America and the Most Great
Peace" :-"In
a world writhing
with pain
and declining into chaos this community-
the vanguard
of the liberating
fore$
of
Baha'u'llah-succeeded
in the years follow-
ing 'Abdu'l-Baha's
passing in raising high

BAHA'1 PROCEDURE
above the institutions established by its sis-
ter communities in East and West what may
well constitute the chief pillar of that fu-
ture House of Justice-a
House which pos-
terity will regard as the last refuge of a
tottering civilization."
How different an institution the House of
Justice
is from any church or other re-
ligious organization in the past!
It is this
element of responsibility for the preserva-
tion and welfare of humanity
itself that
makes membership in the Baha'i Faith so
much more than the passive acceptance of
any articles of creed or than any subjective
happiness that might arise from the prac-
tise of personal mysticism. "Alone of all the
Revelations gone before it," the Guardian
declared on page 54 of "The Dispensation of
Baha'u'llah," "this Faith has, through the ex-
plicit directions, the repeated warnings, the
authenticated
safeguards
incorporated
and
elaborated in its teachings, succeeded in rais-
ing a structure which the bewildered follow-
ers of bankrupt and broken creeds might well
approach and critically examine, and seek,
ere it is too late, the invulnerable security
of its world-embracing shelter."
In the light of these explanations, every
devoted believer might well inquire, how can
the individual Baha'i, conscious of his own
weaknesses' and limitations, reach out to re-
ceive some portion of that Bounty which the
Supreme Manifestation
has brought to the
world?
An indication of the true answer is given
in the Will and Testament, in those passages
which establish the Guardianship
and in-
augurate, under his direction, the House of
Justice established by Baha'u'llah.
"They
(members of the House of Justice), and not
the body of those who either directly or in-
directly elect them, have thus been made the
recipients of the divine guidance which is at
once the lif e~blood and ultimate safeguard
of this Revelation."
(Dispensation,
page
61).
Just as the power of the Holy Spirit in-
spired those who endeavored faithfully
to
carry out the Master's instructions
in His
day, and was withdrawn
from those who
sought to worship Baha'u'llah without recog-
nition of the Center of the Covenant, so now
the confirming spirit is with those who cen-
ter their lives upon the Guardian's general
instructions, and find it possible to unite a
spiritual attitude with the outer task of de-
veloping the World Order already, though
so weak and immature, living in the Baha'i
administrative
institutions.
What is vitally needed at this time is for
us all to receive the new and more potent
impetus that pours forth from the Guardian
SECTION FOUR, SHEET 6
to bless all workers fully active and con-
scious of their mission. It is no longer suffi-
cient for any Baha'i to say that he "accepts"
the authority of his local Assembly.
This
passive attitude must be transformed
into
a devoted and sincere effort to assist in car-
rying out every activity and plan which the
local Assembly adopts.
The word "author-
ity" perhaps blinds us to the deeper reality,
that the Spiritual Assembly is the instru-
ment through which the divine blessings flow
to every member of the community from the
higher source.
There is a world of differ-
ence between mere willingness not to disobey
and a heartfelt and passionate yearning to
help with all our force the Spiritual Assem-
bly in all its capacity to serve the Cause.
The Holy Spirit pE;)rmeates the universe, but
it blesses ,with its mysterious forces only
those who are inwardly and outwardly part
of the oneness which Baha'u'llah has created
in this Day.
To transmute passive accept-
ance into active and dynamic loyalty of ac-
tion is the supreme issue confronting every
member of the American Baha'i community.
Similarly, the local Assembly and its com-
munity, to be fully and completely Baha'i,
must not simply "accept the authority
of
the National Spiritual Assembly" and re-
frain from infringing
that authority-the
local community must make the general
plans and activities of the National Assem-
bly its first and most vital concern.
Only
in so doing does it stand in the station of
receiving the spiritual reinforcements reach-
ing humanity through the Guardian.
A lo-
cal Baha'i community is not an independent
body chartered
to maintain
activities en-
tirely distinct from those in other local com-
munities, but every local community is part
of one larger body administered by the Na-
tional Spiritual
Assembly, which in turn
possesses no independence but on the con-
trary is engaged in carrying out the Guar-
dian's instructions and advices.
Let us recall Shoghi Effendi's words con-
cerning the relation of local to National
Spiritual Assembly reported on page 13 of
Baha'i News, June, 1934: "However, in view
of the principle that local activities should
always be subordinated to the national in-
terests, needs and requirements of the Faith
... " etc. And "Just as all local institutions,
whether administrative
or otherwise, must
under! all circumstances
lbe considered as
subsidiary to national organizations, so also
local circular letters should be viewed as
secondary in importance compared to the
national organ of Baha'i activities.
This
principle, however, should not be interpreted
as being detrimental to the local interests
of the Baha'i community, but as an essen-

BAHA't PROCEDURE
tial, nay indispensable means whereby the
administrative system of the Cause can work
with efficiency and order."
And, "Just as the
local Baha'i fund must under all circum-
stances be subordinated to the national fund.
. . . Such a coordination between local and
national efforts is indispensable, not only
due to its economic advantages, but essen-
tially due to the fact that upon the applica-
tion of the ,principle underlying this process
must inevitably depend the effective working
of the entire administrative
machinery of
the Faith.
There is order, coordination and
system in the Cause, and not a jungle of con-
flicting interests and of continually clashing
wills ....
Local activities should always be
subordinated to those of a national charac-
ter and importance.
This is intended not to
minimize the role of the local Assembly in
the administrative
order, but to establish
and insure a sane relationship between that
body and the national
organism
of the
Cause."
Since the Guardian has given emphasis to
this matter, we may be certain that it repre-
sents an important step to be taken in our
collective attitude toward the Faith of Ba-
ha'u'llah.
Therefore the friends are urged
to study carefully the Guardian's list of the
objectives and aims which the National As-
sembly is to adopt at this time, because with-
out a truly united and active national com-
munity the Assembly can have no power to
carry out such important and difficult tasks.
It is in the development of the National
Fund that the local communities can render
the most direct assistance at this time. For
as we complete the dome unit ,we create the
"mi 1ghty bulwark" of the administrative
or-
der, and as we develop and safeguard the ad-
ministrative
order we contribute
to the
World Order upon which the life of human-
ity itself depends.
There is no intention in this statement to
minimize the importance of local Baha'i ac-
tivities.
The teaching programs now being
carried out by many Spiritual Assemblies
are truly notable and are producing an in-
crease in the active membership of the Faith.
The major purpose of the National Spiritual
Assembly, in fact, consists in reinforcing in
every possible way the capacity of the local
Assemblies to serve the Cause. But the fact
remains that the twigs cannot prosper if the
branch upon which they depend is deprived
of any portion
of its allotted strength.
Through the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, in its spirit-
ual mystery and its outward
and visible
glory, our combined efforts have in the past
few years multipled a hundred fold the pow-
er of every teacher to convey the divine Mes-
sage. The Temple has created a magnet at-
SECTION FOUR, SHEET 7
tracting the confirmation of the Holy Spirit
upon the services of every loyal believer,
without distinction of geographical nearness
or remoteness from the physical edifice.
Now we are called upon to complete that
portion of the task which represents the per-
fect crown of the Temple-the
external dec-
oration of the dome unit. This task can only
be completed if we become one organic na-
tional Baha'i community, imbued with one
aim and inspired by one spirit. Therefore let
us consider afresh the relations of the local
community to the central national body, that
the many small lakes may become one great
sea, every drop of which moves under the
one same impulse. Such a degree of unity
will overcome our separate weaknesses and
limitations, and the effect will be one of ir-
resistible,
forward-moving
power.
Many
and urgent are the demands upon the Na-
tional Assembly to contribute to the vrotec-
tion of the Faith in other countries, and these
demands will increase during the years to
come. By meeting the Guardian's standard
of achievement now, our united capacity for
service to Baha'u'lla·h will forge a mighty
.instrument for the Guardian's use in estab-
lishing World Order.
"The National Assembly is the trusted
guardian and the mainspring of the mani-
·fold activities and interests
of every na-
tional community in the Baha'i world. It
constitutes the sole link that binds the com-
munities to the International House of Jus-
tice, the supreme administrative body in the
Dispensation of Baha'u'llah."-N.
S. A.
OBLIGATION TO ENFORCE
LAWS OF FAITH
With regard to the closing of the Tarbiat
Schools: the school authorities have, in en-
forcing the observance of Baha'i anniver-
saries, acted on the advice and direction of
the Guardian.
These Schools, being inde-
pendent and official Baha'i institutions, could
not very well ignore, much less violate the
express provisions and laws of the Aqdas.
Had they any connection with government
institutions, or had their ownership and con-
trol been shared by non-Baha'is, the situa-
tion would have been different. This distinc-
tion between institutions that are under full
or partial Baha'i control is of a fundamental
importance.
Institutions
that are entirely
managed by Baha'is are, for reasons that
are only too obvious, under the obligation of
enforcing all the laws and ordinances of the
Faith,
especially those whose observance
constitutes a matter of conscience. There is
no reason, no justification whatever, that
they should act otherwise, and any restric-

BAHA't PROCEDURE
tion which the ,government may impose upon
them in this connection would necessarily
constitute
a violation of the individual's
right to freedom in matters of religious be-
lief. The situation is different when an in-
stitution is run partly by Baha'is, or is com-
pletely owned by the government.
In this
case the believers, while anxious to observe
all ,prescribed Baha'i Feasts and Anniver-
saries, should also take into consideration
the rights and interests of their non-Baha'i
partners
and associates, and not to force
these to stop worlcing when they are under
no moral or religious obligation to do so.-
SH0GHI EFFENDI.
FUTURE TEMPLE
CONTRACTS
He also wishes me to express his approval
of your suggestion that as soon as the orna-
mentation work of the clerestory section of
the Temple is completed no new contract he
signed for the next unit unless the entire sum
required for the contract has already been
collected. Economic conditions, both within
and without the Cause, are nowadays too
unstable to allow us to undertake any exten-
sive scheme before insuring its uninterrupted
and successful
·prosecution.-SH0GHI
EF-
FENDI.
FUNCTION OF REVIEWING
COMMITTEE
The functions of the Reviewing and Edi-
torial Committees have been combined in
one committee, which is to carry out the fol-
lowing general ·procedure: -
1. Determine whether a manuscript con-
forms to the Baha'i teachings.
2. Determine whether the manuscript con-
forms to adequate standards of literary style
and taste.
3. Determine
whether
the manuscript
meets a real need in the Cause.-N.
S. A.
ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES
As regards the activities of the economic
committee of the National Assembly; Shoghi
Effendi fully sympathizes with the desire of
some of the members to see the committee
find ways and means to put into practice
the economic teachings of the Cause, as ex-
plained in some of the recorded writings and
sayings of Baha'u'llah and the Master. But
he believes that the time is not yet ripe for
such activities.
First we have to study the
economic teachings in the light of modern
problems more thoroughly so that we may
advocate what the Founders of the Faith say
SECTION FOUR, SHEET 8
and not what we conjecture from their writ-
ings.
There is great
difference between
sounding a· great general principle and find-
ing its application to actual prevailing con-
ditions.
Secondly, the Cause is not financially in a
position to launch itself in such undertakings
at present.
Such plans need great financial
backing to be worked out in a permanent
form. In time, Shoghi Effendi hopes all these
things will come to pass. For the present
we have to consolidate our basic institutions
and spread the teachings and spirit of the
Faith among the public.-SH0GHI
EFFENDI.
QUALIFICATIONS OF
TEACHERS
Whenever local Assemblies desire the ser-
vices of any Baha'i teacher not under its own
jurisdiction the Assembly shall apply for a
teacher through the National Teaching Com-
mittee, and the National Teaching
Com-
mittee in providing teachers on such requests
is to a,pply the following standard of quali-
fications : Full knowledge of the teachings,
including the World Order letters of the
Guardian; full loyalty to the administrative
order of the Cause; sincerity and severance
from all local situations
and problems.-
N. S. A.
ATTACKS FROM FORMER
BELIEVERS
As a principle the Guardian wishes the
N. S. A. to disregard
such futile attacks
which those who have dissociated themselves
from the Administration
feel inclined to di-
rect against it. This is a rule which applies
not only to a few individuals but to all those
who reject the Administrative
Order after
having identified themselves with the Faith.
-SHOGHI
EFFENDI.
PUBLISHING ACTIVITIES
1. The Publishing Committee from this
date is to be regarded as a producer and dis-
tributor of Baha'i literature on a wholesale
as distinguished from a retail basis ; retail
sales
being
more
economically
handled
throug:h local Baha'i libraries, general book
sellers and other sales agencies.
2. Literature
intended for free distribu-
tion shall be, in the first instance, recom-
mended by the Teaching Committee, \and
upon approval
and appropriation
by the
N. S. A. printed by the Publishing Commit-
tee. Appropriations
for or apportionments
of free literature from editions of works al-
ready in ·hand or already authorized to be

BAHA'f PROCEDURE
printed will be made by the N. S. A. as oc-
casion arises.
3. On the larger standard books, recom-
mendations for reprints
or new issues of
single books may be made by the Publish-
ing Committee to the N. S. A. and are sub-
ject to the approval of that body prior to any
undertaking
or contract
being made for
printing.
4. The Publishing Committee before print-
ing any new book or pamphlet, or reprinting
any existing book or pamphlet, shall obtain
from this body a specific and final resolution
authorizing its publication, which resolution
shall include the record of its adequate and
proper review by the Reviewing Committee
of this body, and after such authorization
has been obtained, no changes nor modifica-
tions shall be made in the text or general
make-up of any book or pamphlet.
5. Whenever the National Assembly orders
a ·publication, such as "America's Spiritual
Mission" or "The Unfoldment of World Civ-
ilization" for free distribution to believers,
it shall pay the cost in cash; whenever the
National Assembly votes a literature budget
to any Committee, it shall likewise pay the
Publishing
Committee the value of such
budgets in cash; and whenever the National
Assembly finances a book like "The Baha'i
World" which the Publishing
Committee
cannot at present undertake, each of such
works shall be handled like "The Dawn-
Breakers", namely, as a separate item, with
the cash income from sales either paid back
to the National Assembly or put into a spe-
cial fund of the Publishing Committee for
the financing of future books.-N.
S. A.
NATIONAL ARCHIVES
a. The "Real Baha'i Archives," i. e., the
writings of the Founders of the Cause. These
would include any original writings of the
Bab and Baha'u'llah that may come into the
possession of the National Archives; also,
photostatic copies and authoritative illumin-
ated copies of Their original writings. Under
this heading may also be classed the Tablets
of 'Abdu'l-Baha addressed to American As-
semblies and believers, and the letters of the
Guardian to National and local Assemblies
and to individual believers.
b. Such National Spiritual Assembly rec-
ords as from time to time may be turned over
by that body, and copies of all National Ba-
ha'i publications.
c. Records, objects, and iphotographs of
particular
national interest, as those deal-
ing with the Temple, the work of national
and international
teachers, and The Baha'i
World.
SECTION FOUR, SHEET 9
d. Individual records and relics of any
form only when touched by ( directly associ-
ated with) the Bab, Baha'u'llah, the Master,
the Guardian, or the N. S. A.
The cooperation of local corresponding
secretaries is requested in the collecting and
forwarding of material which should be pre-
served in the National Archives. The atten-
tion and active interest of the friends should
be encouraged in both local and National
Archives through consultation in Spiritual
Assemblies and at Nineteen-Day Feasts.-
N. S.A.
STATUS OF REGIONAL
COMMITTEES
In order to prevent confusion between the
functions of the National and Regional Com-
mittees, it is recorded that each Regional
Committee is to be responsible for all deci-
sions involving action, and need not consult
the National Teaching Committee with ref-
erence to activities within the region. It is
also recorded that the Regional Committees
have no administrative
authority over local
Assemblies but are to assist the local Assem-
blies in every possible way and also make
possible a coordination of Inter-Assembly
activity.-N.
S. A.
YOUTH ACTIVI1''IES
There are two important
points which
Shoghi Effendi would like you always to em-
phasize. In the first place he would strongly
urge you to cooperate, heart and soul, with
all the various Assemblies, groups and com-
mittees throughout the Baha'i world, to ask
for their assistance and help for the success-
ful discharge of your duties and obligations,
and in this way to try to build up an active
and ready mind among the Baha'i youth
throughout the world.
In other words, you
should not confine your ·activities to the na-
tional sphere but you should strive to create
under the supervision of your N. S. A. an in-
ternational body of active young Baha'i men
and women who, conscious of their manifold
and sacred responsibilities, will unanimous-
ly arise to spread the Holy Word. The sec-
ond :point which the Guardian wishes you to
stress •and to keep always in mind is the
necessity for every loyal and active member
of your committee to fully concentrate on
the thorough study and understanding of the
spiritual
and administrative
principles of
the Faith, as a necessary step for active and
fruitful
teaching.
You should first equip
yourself
with
the necessary
amount
of
knowledge about the Cause, and then, and
only then, try to teach.-SHOGHI EFFENDI.

BAHA't PROCEDURE
RESPONSIBILITY OF
NATIONAL SPIRITUAL
ASSEMBLY
The institution of National Spiritual As-
semblies has been established in the Baha'i
teachings for the fulfilment of a number of
important
functions.
These functions
are
described in the Declaration of Trust and
By-laws which, after approval by the Guar-
dian, became the controlling instrument for
the affairs of the Cause in the United States
and Canada.
As set forth in that instrument, the Na-
tional Spiritual Assembly is a body having
a continuous and uninterrupted
existence
and possessing paramount authority within
the physical area of its jurisdiction, the ex-
ercise of this authority being expressly sub-
ject to the higher authority of the Guardian
and also of the Universal House of Justice
when that body comes into existence.
A summary of the duties and responsibili-
ties of the Assembly reveals how vitally im-
portant it is for its own members to have
full mutual understanding and agreement of
and loyalty to their individual and collective
rights and obligations as trustees under the
Declaration of Trust.
1. The Assembly has final power over the
voting right and Baha'i membership of
every believer in the United States and
Canada.
2. The Assembly recognizes the existence
or non-existence of every local Spirit-
ual Asembly.
3. The Assembly can take jurisdiction of
any matter affecting two or more be-
lievers or two or more local Assemblies.
4. The Assembly makes final decision on
all plans and suggestions advanced by
individual believers, local communities,
local Assemblies and Convention dele-
gates.
5. The Assembly administers
the collec-
tive funds of the Cause in the United
States and Canada.
6. The Assembly legislates when ,proce-
dures and detailed laws are necessary.
7. The Assembly is executive as well as
legislative and judicial in ·character.
8. The Assembly represents the believers
and local Spiritual Assemblies in re-
lation to the Guardian, and the Guar-
dian in relation to the believers and
focal Assemblies.
9. The Assembly is the American electoral
body for the election of the Universal
House of Justice.
In discharging these several functions, the
Assembly seeks the ideal of unanimity in all
SECTION FOUR, SHEET 10
its decisions. It however permits action to
be taken by majority vote when a quorum
exists in any duly called meeting. It has re-
corded its obligation to obtain the views and
record the ¥Otes of absent members on all
matters of vital importance, in order to have
final decision in such matters made by a ma-
jority of the entire membership and not by a
majority of a quorum.
The right of a majority to carry a decision
is derived from Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Baha, and
from the same source is derived the obliga-
tion of the minority to accept and obey the
will of the majority.
No distinction between
majority and minority votes or views is rec-
ognized after final decision has been made.
From time to time the Assembly has taken
cognizance of the fact that this principle has
not fully been observed, when informed that
some member has expressed dissatisfaction
to other believers with actions duly taken at
various meetings. The minutes of the meet-
ing held on November 12 and 13, 1932, for
example, contain the following statement:
"It was the sense of the meeting that mat-
ters presented at meetings of this body do
not become actions of the Assembly until a
unanimous or majority vote has been cast
after which they are actions of all the mem-
bers and, therefore,
it would destroy the
spiritual ,power of the National Assembly to
discriminate
between the individual atti-
tudes on any question after the question is
settled, or to make public any record of at-
titudes held before the vote is takien. In
order to maintain the true character of the
institution of the National Spiritual Assem-
bly no member is ·authorized to discuss out-
side of the meeting the individual opinions
of any of the members. There should be no
discussion about the activities of the Na-
tional Spiritual Assembly except its actions
as recorded in votes."
In practice, full liberty has ,been given
each member to express his views and ad-
vance his opinion during the period of dis-
cussion preceding the casting of votes, even
, to the extent of encroachment
upon the
rights of other members.
The Master, in a Tablet quoted by Shoghi
Effendi on ipage 21 of "Baha'i Administra-
tion", referred to the subject of Assembly
decisions as follows: "The members ... must
take counsel together in such wise that no
occasion for ill-feeling or discord may arise.
This can be attained when every member ex-
presseth with absolute fredom his own opin-
ion and setteth forth his argument.
Should
any one oppose, he must on no account feel
hurt for not until matte:rs are fully discussed
can the right way be revealed. The shining
spark of truth cometh forth only after the

BAHA't PROCEDURE
clash of differing opinions. If after discus-
sion, a decision ibe carried unanimously, well
and good; but if, the Lord forbid, differences
of opinion should arise, a majority of voices
must prevail."
Experience has made it clear that the As-
sembly can not fulfill any of its duties and
responsibilities with more than partial suc-
cess, and above all can not set an example
of unity to the body of believers, so long as
any member expresses dissatisfaction
and
objection
to its decisions in conversation
with other believers, and so long as any mem-
ber by word or attitude conveys directly or
indirectly, a spirit of criticism of the As-
sembly or its individual members. The high-
est obligation of every member of the As-
sembly is to the institution of the National
Spiritual Assembly itself.
No member can
justifiably assert any higher loyalty, whether
to his local Assembly, his local Community
or to personal friends among the believers.
It is the understanding of the members now
in office that the Cause of Baha'u'llah, unlike
political democracies,
does not make its
elected representatives
mere agents of their
electors, and unlike ·political aristocracies
contains no institutions
of special privilege
whose members' personal or class interests
are made ends unto themselves, while unlike
reHgious heirarchies the Cause of Baha'u'l-
lah recognizes no persons or institutions or
offices possessing
authority
to establish
dogma, claim spiritual rights over others or
otherwise change and nullify any part of
His Revelation. The National Spiritual As-
sembly exists in order to uphold the Cause,
promote its interests and safeguard the unity
of the entire American Baha'i community.
In order to render this service, its attention
is directed to the Baha'i teachings and to the
instructions received from the Guardian, and
its responsibility
cannot ·be limited by the
wishes and views of any believer or group
of believers.
The National Spiritual Assembly, having
attained definite understanding
of the na-
ture of the institution, records its conviction
that
the fundamental
principle
of unity,
manifested in full and complete loyalty on
the part of its members to the results of de-
cisions made by unanimous or majority vote,
must be upheld at all costs by every person
holding office as member of this Baha'i
body.
In any case of internal controversy affect-
ing the membership of the National Assem-
bly which cannot be remedied by full and
frank consultation of all the members, the
matter shall be reported to the Guardian and
his advice sought before final action is taken.
-N.S.A.
SECTION FOUR, SHEET 11
ASSEMBLY
CONSULTATION
It is recorded that the followi;ng statement
was drawn up and :presented and unani-
mously adopted :
1. Consultation as defined by the Master
in a passage quoted by the Guardian
on page 21 of "Baha'i Administration"
means the discussion and frank expres-
sion of opinion by Assembly members
personally present at a meeting. Con-
sultation does not mean the exchange of
views through correspondence.
2. An Assembly meeting is defined in
Article VI of the By-Laws as follows:
"Five members of the National Assem-
bly present at a meeting shall consti-
tute a quorum, and a majority vote of
those present and constituting a quo-
rum shall be sufficient for the conduct of
business, except as otherwise provided
in these By-Laws, and with due regard
to the principle of unity and cordial
fellowship involved in the institution of
a Spiritual Assembly."
3. Actions taken by the Assembly at a
meeting in conformity with the provi-
sions of this By-Law are equally bind-
ing
upon
all
Assembly
members,
whether present or absent from the
meeting at which the actions are taken.
4. Any member may ask for reconsidera-
tion of any Assembly action by request-
ing the Secretary to add this as one of
the subjects on the Agenda of a later
meeting.
The action questioned, how-
ever, stands as an Assembly action un-
til changed by vote at a meeting.
The
Master enjoins upon all members of
Local and National
Assemblies the
solemn obligation to abandon personal
views after decisions .have been made.
-N.S.A.
5. There is no immunity from responsibil-
ity for any member of the National
Assembly at any time from the collec-
tive actions of this body.
6. Matters presented at meetings of this
body do not become actions of the As-
sembly until a unanimous or majority
vote has been cast, after which they are
actions of all the members and, there-
fore, it would destroy the spiritual
power of the National Assembly to dis-
criminate between the individual atti-
tudes on any question after the ques-
tion is settled, or to make public any
record of attitudes held before the vote
is taken. In order to maintain the true
character of the institution of the Na:.
tional Spiritual Assembly no member

BAHA't PROCEDURE
is authorized to discuss outside of the
meeting the individual opinions of any
of the members. There should be no
discussion about the activities of the
National Spiritual Assembly except its
actions as recorded in votes.
INTERNAL PROCEDURE
( Compiled from Minutes)
I. International Activities
This body shall refrain from action on
matters
having
an international
Baha'i
scope until after consultation with the Guar-
dian.
2. Publication of Guardian's
Letters
All communications from the Guardian in-
tended for the believers should be issued as
quickly as possible for general distribution.
3. Calendar of Annual Actions
1. Notice of first meeting.
Immediately
following the election, the member re-
ceiving the nighest number of votes
shall give notice of the first meeting to
the other eight members, by telegraph
or telephone if necessary. Members un-
able to attend the meeting shall have
opportunity to cast votes for the election
of Officers by telegra:ph or telephone.
In the event that a tie vote makes a sec-
ballot necessary, the vote cast by the
absent members in the first ballot shall
be counted by the teller in the second
ballot.
2. The principal business to be taken up
at the ,first meeting following the An-
nual Election shall be the election of
officers.
3. The first meeting shall also act to
notify the Trustees of the names of the
Trustees who have been elected.
4. T.he first meeting shall also act to se-
cure all Assembly records in the pos-
session of officers and members of the
outgoing Assembly.·
5. The first meeting shall also act to audit
the Annual Financial Report and as
soon as convenient
to issue copies
thereof to the Guardian and to Local
Spiritual Assemblies.
6. The first meeting shall also act to di-
rect the Secretary to secure a full and
complete result of the election of Local
Spiritual Assemblies held on the pre-
vious twenty-firs.t day of April and re-
port that result to the Assembly for its
early consideration,
that a Directory
SECTION FOUR, SHEET 12
may be published for the use of the As-
sembly, its Committees,
and of the
Local Spiritual Assemblies.
7. The first meeting shall also act to di-
rect the Treasurer to secure the Annual
Financial Reports of the Trustees and
present these Reports to the Assembly
for its early consideration.
8. The first meeting shall also take steps
toward the preparation
of an Annual
Budget to be adopted for the guidance
of the Assembly in its financial affairs.
9. The first meeting shall also direct the
Secretary to submit as soon as conven-
ient a full and complete list of all Com-
mittees appointed by the outgoing As-
sembly, with the date or dates of ex-
piration
of their respective appoint-
ments, for the information of the As-
sembly in making its committee ap-
pointments.
10. The first meeting shall also act to adopt
a National Office for the conduct of af- .
fairs of the Assembly and the mainten-
ance of its files and records.
11. The date and ,place of the next Annual
meeting shall be selected at a meeting
held at such time during the Assembly's
term of office as shall permit the Sec-
retary to observe the following sched-
ule of actions :-
A. Four and one half months prior to
the Annual Meeting, an Application
for Participation in the Annual Con-
vention to be issued to all Local
.Spiritual Assemblies, this applica-
tion to be returned within thirty
days, to furnish the Assembly with
the data necessary for assigning the
95 delegates to local Baha'i com-
m unities by proportionate
repre-
sentation.
B. Notice of the Annual Meeting to be
issued at least sixty days prior to
the Convention date. This Notice
to include the following matters:
One, time and iplace of the Conven-
tion; Two, request that Local As-
semblies call a meeting for the elec-
tion of delegates: Three, list of Par-
ticipating Communities, with num-
ber of delegates assigned to each;
Four, a Certificate of Election to be
filled out by each Assembly.
C. As soon as possible after April 1, a
blank ballot, a copy of the Conven-
tion Agenda, and information about
voting to be sent each delegate.
D. Preparation
of Annual Report, in-
cluding Annual Reports by Commit-
tees, in time to be published and dis-

BAHA't PROCEDURE
tributed to delegates in advance of
the Convention.
E. Appointment of Convention Com-
mittees.
F. Preparation of Convention Agenda,
the principal item of which is the
election of the National Spiritual
Assembly.
12. The Assembly shall direct the Secre-
tary by April first, to issue to Local
Spiritual Assemblies and groups a Cer-
tificate of Election of Local Spiritual
Assemblies, with the request that this
Certificate be returned as soon as pos-
sible after the election.
13. Temple, Green Acre, Malden, Wilhelm
and Bosch Trustees to file Certificate of
election with County Clerk.
4. Distribution of Baha'i News
The Secretary was directed to make it
clear that the distribution of Baha'i News
should be confined to declared and recog-
nized believers.
5. Pilgrims' Notes
N. S. A. will not in the future ·ask for the
authentication
of any pilgrims' notes nor
cooperate in their distribution but ref er ex-
clusively to the Guardian's general communi-
cations to this body and the American be-
lievers for its source of information and
guide of action.
6. Form of Minutes
Each letter, document, or other item com-
ing before the Assembly and requiring
action is to be listed and described in
weekly reports from the Secretary,
and
these items when considered at meetings
are to carry the descriptive number given
them in the weekly reports without other
description or identification.
The weekly
reports
therefore
are
to be considered
as part of the Minutes.
Any numbered
items listed in the reports but not ref erred
to in the Minutes represent either unfinished
business or subjects not requiring action but
merely mentioned in the reports for pur-
poses of record.
7. Weekly Reports
Voted to direct the Secretary to issue to
each member a weeldy letter including a ,brief
financial statement and a report of current
correspondence and other matters before the
Assembly, these weekly letters to refer to
these items in numbered sequence, so that
reference to any item in the Minutes can be
SECTION FOUR, SHEET 13
made by simply referring to the number of
the item in the weekly letters, and these
weekly -letters are to take the place of the
agenda hitherto issued before each meeting.
8. Recording of Votes
Voted that future records of all votes
passed by the Assembly, whether majority
or unanimous, should be simply e::,cpressed as
voted, without other qualifications or details
of the vote.
9. Acceptance of Declaration
of Trust
In connection with the approval of new
local Assemblies the Secretary was instructed
to submit in each case a blank form to be
filled out by the local community, formally
recording their acceptance of the Declara-
tion of Trust and By-laws as the legal struc-
ture of the Baha'i Cause in the United States
and Canada.
10. Report of Individual
Attendance
The question of whether individual atten-
dance of members of the National Assembly
should be reported to the Convention was
discussed and it was the sense of the meet-
ing that while the National Assembly is re-
sponsible for its collective actions, it is not
responsible for making reports of the ac-
tions of its individual members.
11. Correspondence with
Individuals
The Secretary requested advice and in-
struction in dealing with letters to this body
by individual believers who object to or
complain about matters of National Baha'i
policy. After consideration it was moved,
seconded and voted to instruct the Secretary
fo these cases to inform such individuals
that the N. S. A. has adopted the ,policy that
these general Baha'i matters must be first
d.iscussed with their own local Spiritual As-
sembly al!_d the National Assembly will re-
spond to all such matters presented through
the local Assembly; it being understood that
communications from individual believers on
personal matters are to be answered direct.
12. Consultation with Believers
Voted to record the following -procedure
in connection with consultation between the
Assembly and Committees and individual be'-
lievers: the committee representative, or in-

BAHA't PROCEDURE
dividual believer, is to report as fully as
possible, and the Chairman is to represent
the Assembly in aslcing any necessary ques-
tions. Members of the Assembly desiring to
ask further questions are to ref er them to
the Chairman and not to the group or indi-
vidual present for consultation.
13. Office of Treasurer
The Treasurer of this :body shall observe
the following procedure in making payment
of funds from any fund or funds held in the
name of the National Spiritual Assembly:
1. All appropriations included in the An-
nual Budget duly adopted by the Assembly
are payable when due by the Treasurer with-
out further authority or specific action on
the part of the Assembly.
2. All extra-budget
appropriations
duly
voted by the Assembly are payable when due
by the Treasurer without further authority
or specific action on the part of the Assem-
bly, unless in voting the appropriation the
Assembly specifically made it payable by the
Treasurer
after approval by some other
member, committee, agent or representative,
in which case the Treasurer is bound to se-
cure the specified· approval 1bef ore making
any payment on such appropriation.
3. After e:,ramining the budget adopted by
this body, the Treasurer may request the As-
sembly to include provision for approval be-
fore payment of any item or items in the
budget which in the Treasurer's judgment
cannot efficiently be passed upon by the
Treasurer alone.
In all business arrangements entered into
by the N. S. A., where salary or other form
of financial allowance is involved over an ex-
tended period of time, the Assembly shall
make the agreement in writing and for a
term not exceeding one year, and also that
expense accounts contingent upon the hold-
ing of office come to an end with the e~pir-
ation of the term of said office.
After consideration of the advantage on
the one hand of allowing believers to express
their devotion by gifts of jewelry and other
merchandise, and of the disadvantage on the
other hand of assuming responsibility for
the sale of such articles, for which the Na-
tional Assembly has no facilities other than
the individual believers who make such dona-
tions, it was moved, seconded and voted to
direct the Treasurer to accept as contribu-
tions to the National Fund only donations
made in currency or marketable securities
and to ref er to the National Assembly for
specific action in each case, all proposals for
donations to be made in the form of real
estate, whether land or buildings alone or
SECTION FOUR, SHEET 14
land and buildings.
Voted to empower and authorize
the
Treasurer to sell on behalf of the National
Spiritual Assembly for the benefit of the Na-
tional Baha'i Fund any and all such stocks,
bonds and other securities as from time to
time are sent him as contributions to said
fund.
A monthly report to be embodied in the
Minutes, based upon the Annual Budget and
recording all sums paid out under each
budget item. A -list of checks issued by the
Treasurer during the month. Total contri-
butions received since the last meeting and
from the beginning of the fiscal year. A
calendar of fixed amounts ,payable during
the fiscal year, with due dates, including
sums payable by the Temple and all other
Trustees; insurance premiums, wages, per-
sonal expense accounts, interests on loans
and mortgages, taxes, etc. Specific request
for vote on all appropriations needed during
the current month not already voted under
the Annual Budget.
In case of any contribution of funds from
interested friends who are not members of a
local Baha'i community, such contributions
can be accepted with the understanding that
they will be used for the purpose of comfort-
ing and aiding people in distress or for other
social welfare work, in accordance with the
Guardian's letter of Oct. 25, 1929.
Voted to direct the Treasurer to pay only
actual traveling expenses of Assembly mem-
bers in connection with their attendance at
meetings, and other expenses of Assembly
members are only to be paid by special vote
of the National Assembly.
Henceforth if any believer offers to fi-
nance an activity which has been approved
but which cannot be financed directly from
the National Fund, the National Assembly
shall accept such an offer without permitting
any change in the conditions under which
the activity in question should be carried on
in accordance with the principles and me-
thods of Baha'i administration; and that the
believer shall turn such a donation over to
the National Fund and not pay the e~enses
direct, so that the responsibility shall rest
upon the National Assembly.
All payments under contract and all con-
tractual relations shall be under the direct
control of the N. S. A. and not of any com-
mittee and all contracts incurred by this
body shall ibe made with forms quoting
Article 2, Sections 1 and 2 of the Declaration
of Trust~ It is understood that this latter
provision will not apply in cases where this
body had voted a definite appropriation to a
committee for an itemized budget duly re-
corded in these Minutes.

BAHA't PROCEDURE
14. Holding of Real Estate
In cases of gifts of land in the future to
the Cause, separate Indentures shall be made
in each case.
15. Application for Leases
Applications from Baha'is for lease of land
for building sites on property controlled by
Baha'i Trustees will he acted on in the order
received. The form of lease to ,be _given will
provide for the following factors: Term of
lease, use of site and annual rental; mini-
mum and maximum amounts to be spent for
construction ; provision of wat.er and light;
a fee for reservation of sites with a time
limit; maintenance of Baha'i control over the
ownership and occupancy of homes, with a
predetermined method of valuation in the
event that a cottage is sold or comes under
the management of the Trust.ees through a
property owner's repudiation of the Faith.
16. Tax Exemption on Donations
A lett.er was presented from the U. S.
Treasury Department, dated December first,
1927, recognizing the National Assembly as
a duly organized religious body qualified to
receive donations and ,bequests and granting
the usual tax exemption to donations re-
ceived ,by the Treasurer of this •body.
17. Changing Date of Meetings
• When the date of the Meeting has been re-
corded in the Minutes, no individual mem-
ber shall request, between Meetings, to have
the dat.e altered, but every member shall be
in duty bound to report to the Chairman not
later than ten days ibef ore the Meeting if he
or she is unable to att.end; and in the event
that such reports indicat.e that a quorum
cannot be obtained for the date already fixed,
the Chairman shall determine the dat.e when
the Meeting is to be called.
18. Correspondence in Matters
Already Clarified
Letters addressed to the National Assem-
bly on matters which the Assembly has al-
ready _decided by specific vote or on which
a clear precedent exists in the Assembly
records, may be answered by the Secretary
without further Assembly action. In such
cases the Secretary is to cite the source in
conveying the Assembly's view on the mat-
t.er.
SECTION FOUR, SHEET 15
PALESTINE BRANCH OF
AMERICAN NATIONAL
ASSEMBLY
It would int.erest you to know that the
American
National
Spiritual
Assembly,
Palestine Branch, has been incorporated ac-
cording to the law in Palestine, not as a
foreign corporation or a charitable trust,
but as a "religious society" enjoying all the
privileges attaching to recognized religious
institutions in the Holy Land. Shoghi Ef-
fendi hopes to transfer to the name of your
Assembly additional plots of land in the vic-
inity of the shrine of Baha'u'llah at Akka
and of the Bab at-Mount Carmel as soon as
he obtains the necessary authorization from
the authorities, inasmuch as the right of
holding real estate by religious institutions
is strictly limited according to Palestinian
law. This step which he has taken, which has
necessitat.ed many months of careful and
delicate negotiations with both the local and
central authorities, our Guardian feels will
constitute the prelude to the eventual forma-
tion and recognition, by the Palestine Gov-
ernment, of a properly constituted Int.erna-
tional Baha'i Assembly, functioning as an in-
dependent religious body in the Holy Land.
-SHOGHI
EFFENDI.
ON APPEALS FROM LOCAL
SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES
In order to clarify the important subject
of the right of individual members of local
Baha'i communities to make appeal to the
National Spiritual Assembly for reconsider-
ation of actions taken by a Local Spiritual
Assembly, and to set forth for the informa-
tion of the Baha'is of the United States and
Canada a definite procedure controlling the
making of appeals to the National Baha'i
body, the members of the National Spiritual
Assembly have adopted the following state-
ment and incorporat.ed it in the minutes of
the Meeting held on December 27 and 28,
1932.
1. The By-Laws of the National Spiritual
Assembly contain the following references
to the subject of appeals.
Article I. "It shall, in such cases as it con-
siders suitable and necessary, entertain ap-
peals from the decisions of Local Spiritual
Assemblies and shall have the right of final
decision in all cases w,here the qualifications
of an individual or group for continued vot-
ing rig:hts and membership in the Baha'i
body are in question."

BAHA'I PROCEDURE
Article VII. Section 6. "The Local As-
sembly shall pass upon and approve the
qualifications of each member of the Baha'i
community before such members ,shall be
admitted to voting membership; but where
an individual is dissatisfied with the ruling
of the Local Spiritual Assembly upon his
Baha'i qualifications, such individual may
appeal from the ruling to the National As-
sembly, which shall thereupon take jurisdic-
tion of and finally decide the case."
Article
VII.
Section 9. "All questions
arising between two or more Local Spiritual
Assemblies or between members of differ-
ent Baha'i communities, shall be submitted
in the first instance to the National Assem-
bly, which shall have original •and final jur-
isdiction in all such matters."
Note: Article VII. Section 9, properly
speaking, does not refer to the subject of
appeals, since an appeal is from a lower to
a hig,her jurisdiction, and the National Spir-
itual Assembly is the only Baha'i body hav-
ing jurisdiction in cases of an Inter-Assem-
bly character. It is quoted here, however, as
an instruction to ,be noted by believers in
their study of the principles of administra-
tion.
2. It will be seen from the above quota-
tions that the right of individuals to appeal
is subject to the decision of the National
Spiritual Assembly whether the appeal is
important enough to be considered or of a
trivial nature and therefore not to be enter-
tained. This brings out the vital principle
that the National Spiritual Assembly is not
a -passive body compelled to deal with all
matters brought to its attention, but has
paramount executive and legislative powers
in addition to its function as a judicial body.
3. Since with the lapse of time it becomes
difficult to bring together all evidence bear-
ing upon a situation or matter, the National
Assembly has voted that all appeals must be
received within sixty days of the date when
the action or decision of the Local Spiritual
Assembly has been made known to the be-
liever appealing from that action or deci-
sion. The period of sixty days is ample in
which individual believers can take steps to
safeguard their legitimate rights.
4. The National Spiritual Assembly will
entertain
only such appeals as are made
from decisions of a Local Assembly after
the individual believer who makes the appeal
has presented his views to the Local Assem-
bly and endeavored sincerely to solve the
problem by local consultation. The members
of the National Assembly believe that prac-
tically every Baha'i problem can be removed
by full and frank consultation on the part of
the believers directly concerned. But this
SECTION FOUR, SHEET 16
does not mean that a dissatisfied believer is
to agitate any matter among the members of
the local Baha'i community apart from the
Local Spiritual Assembly. The responsi•bil-
ity for decisions is clearly placed upon the
Local Spiritual Assemblies and not upon the
believers of the community.
5. The National Spiritual Assembly can
rightfully entertain only those appeals which
express dissatisfaction with actions or de-
cisions of a Local Assembly-it
cannot be
expected to deal with appeals which are an
effort to deny the authority and power of
the Local Assembly in general. The author-
ity and power duly vested in Local Spiritual
Assemblies will always be upheld and de-
f ended by the National
Assembly.
But
where a duly elected Local Assembly acts
unjustly toward a believer, or acts in such a
way as to work some harm upon the Cause,
an appeal to the National Assembly is en-
tirely justified after consultation with the
Local Assembly has proved fruitless.
6. The National Spiritual Assembly, in
entertaining an appeal, will deal only with
the believer or believers by whom the appeal
has been made. The National Assembly will
not recognize any believer's right to be rep-
resented by another believer nor by a non-
Baha'i attorney, advocate or representative.
In becoming a voting member of the Baha'i
community, every believer accepts the recog-
:rtized qualifications for membership, which
include full acceptance of the power and au-
thority duly vested in Local and National
Assemblies, including the power to remove
any name from the voting list if the recog-
nized qualifications for membership are no
longer observed. The right of every believer
to be a member of the Baha'i community is
conditional upon continued f·aithfulness to
the Cause, and that right is acquired ,by as-
serting one's acceptance of the qualifications
for membership, and is not in any way a
vested rig.ht nor a right that may be perma-
nently claimed without permanence of loy-
alty and faithfulness to the Cause.
7. Appeals must •be made in writing, and
on receiving an appeal the National Assem-
bly will request the Local Assembly to fur-
nish an attested copy of its Minutes or other
records bearing upon the matter in question,
including a record of the consultation re-
quested by the appellant. The nature of the
appeal will be made known to the Local As-
sembly, and the Local Assembly be given
opportunity to furnish a written explanation
of the matter, before the National Assembly
decides whether to entertain the appeal. By
••attested copy" is meant a copy signed by the
Secretary or other Officer of the Local As-

BAHA'l PROCEDURE
sembly duly chosen by the Local Assembly
to furnish the record.
8. The National Assembly will announce
both to the appellant and to the Local As-
sembly its decision, which decision is bind-
ing upon the appellant, the Local Assembly
and the local Baha'i community. In enter-
taining an appeal, the National Spiritual
Assembly will endeavor to raise the problem
from the realm of personality to the plane
of the Teachings and Principles of Adminis-
tration, and seek not merely to announce a
final decision but also to point out wherever
possible the grounds for true understanding
and reconciliation on the part of the believ-
ers immediately affected by the problem ap-
pealed.
9. Unless the National Spiritual Assembly
is entertaining an appeal of a strictly per-
sonal and private nature, the Local Spiritual
Assembly should present the decision of the
National Assembly to the entire local Baha'i
community, for the information and guid-
ance of the community.
10. Local Assemblies are requested to give
individual believers every opportunity for
full and frank discussion of matters which
seem to cause dissatisfaction,
in order to
prevent local problems coming to the point
of formal appeal to the National Assembly.
Local Assemblies should freely receive ap-
peals for reconsideration
of its decisions
from members of the local Baha'i com-
munity, and endeavor to turn these into oc-
casions for increasing the spirit of true unity
between itself and all members of the com-
munity.
Believers
having
a
grievance
against their Local Spiritual Assembly, or
against another ,believer in the community,
have a right to present that grievance pri-
vately to the Local Assembly. If the Local
Assembly considers a grievance between two
or more members of the community, and
cannot remove that grievance, it should re-
f er the matter to the National Assembly·for
advice and assistance, after securing the ap-
proval of all parties to the grievance that
the matter be referred to the National body.
Any believer unwilling to have the grievance
referred to the National Assembly must ac-
cept the decision of the Local Assembly in
regard to the grievi.ance. But when the griev-
ance has been referred to the National As-
sembly with the approval of all the individ-
ual ·believers directly affected, all such be-
lievers are bound to accept the decision of
the National body. Loeal Assemblies, like
the National Assembly, should deal with be-
lievers directly and not through any repre-
sentative.
11. Individual believers may justifiably
appeal to the National Assembly not merely
SECTION FOUR, SHEET 17
in matters affecting themselves personally
but also in larger matters affecting the Cause
in their community. For example, if there
be real evidence that a Local Assembly has
not been properly elected, any Baha'i in that
community may and in fact should join with
other local Baha'is in making the matter
known to the National Assembly. In the
same way, if a duly elected Assembly for any
reason is unable or unwilling to hold regu-
lar meetings and function as a Local As-
sembly, it is incumbent upon the Baha'is
of that community to report the matter to
the National Assembly. In such case the Na-
tional Assembly may order a new election.
12. A Local Assembly which finds itself
in dispute with another Local Assembly may
refer the matter to the National Assembly
if the matter can not be settled by the two
Local Assemblies in accordance with the
Teachings and Princi,ples of the Cause.
In conclusion, the members of the Nation-
al Spiritual Assembly would emphasize the
vital fact that in the Baha'i Faith, all rights
are hala:hced by the obligation to maintain
true unity among the followers of Baha'u'l-
lah. But "Justice is loved above all," and
this statement on appeals has been prepared
in order to make it possible for every be-
liever to obtain the fullest measure of jus-
tice in relation to his Local Assembly and to
his fellow Baha'is.-N.
S. • A.
PROCEDURE FOR CON-
DUCT OF JURIDICAL
SESSIONS
WHEREAS, the National Spiritual Assem-
bly, by virtue of its stated powers and re-
sponsibilities, is from time to time required
to exercise the jurisdiction of a court in de-
termining matters of fact and of Baha'i
principle arising from actions, misunder-
standings ·and disputes among the Baha'is
of the United States and Canada, and
WHEREAS, the National Spiritual Assem-
bly is a Baha'i institution in process of de-
velopment toward the status of a House of
Justice, which status is charged with juris-
diction of all manner of personal and com-
munity matters under the standard of divine
Justice established in the teachings of the
Baha'i Faith, therefore be it
RESOLVED, that the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Baha'is of the United States
and Canada, seeking to fulfill its duties and
responsibilities in the promotion of that Jus-
tice among ·believers, shall henceforth ob-
serve the following procedure when exer-
cising jurisdiction over disputes:

BAHA't PROCEDURE
1. Each case requiring judicial action by
the Assembly shall 1be divided into
three successive and distinct stages,
viz.;
A. The determination of all relevant
facts.
B. The determination of what princi-
ple or principles in the Baha'i teach-
ings apply to said facts.
C. The determination of a final deci-
sion of the case based upon (1) a
written
record of facts duly ac-
cepted by the Assembly and (2) a
written analysis of the fundamental
principles involved, likewise duly
accepted by the Assembly.
2. Any and all report or comment on the
SECTION FOUR, SHEET 18
case, both :before and after determina-
tion of a final decision, shall be confined
to such reports and comments as are
duly agreed upon by the Assembly and
fully recorded in its Minutes.
3. In arriving at its final decision, the As-
sembly shall endeavor faithfully to rise
above
a 11 personal
considerations,
either of undue love and affection for
or undue prejudice against any of the
persons likely to be a~ected by that
final decision ; shall consider dispas-
sionately the facts and principles at is-
sue and not the persons, and shall
strive in its decision of all disputes to
manifest the reality of Baha'u'llah's
teaching that "Justice is loved above
all."-N.
S. A.

BAHA't PROCEDURE
'Abdu'l-Baha, stories about, I-3; Will and Testa-
ment, I-7; instruction
in Will and Testa-
ment of, II-26
Anniversaries_., I-6; calendar of, II-6; and Feasts
I-7
'
Aqdas, Laws of, I-1
Archives, importance
of, I-5; preservation
of
relics, I-5; classification of material for I-
19;
collection
of
Tablets,
II-26;
l~cal
Archives, II-27
Assembly, Spiritual, local, relation to individual
teacher, I-15;
institution of (functions and duties), II-1;
procedure for conduct of, II-3-4-5-6-7;
duties and obligations of, II-8;
institution
of, II-9;
obligation to establish, II-14;
incorporation of, II-14;
annual election of, II-15;
institution
of new Assemblies, II-15;
members to attend meetings, II-15;
voting list, II-15;
residential requirements
for new Assemblies,
II-16;
enrollment of believers by, II-16;
rights of individual believers, II-20;
reports from, II-24;
how to enroll new believers, II-24;
relation of to National Spiritual Assembly, II-
24;
review and publication by, II-25;
instruction in Will and Testament of 'Abdu'l-
Baha by, II-26;
to study reports and recommendations, II-26;
to approve radio programs, II-26;
not to sanction annual memorial meetings II-
26;
'
collection of Tablets by, II-26;
representation
at inter-organization
confer-
ences, II-26;
permanent address of, II-27;
contact with civil authorites, II-27;
settlement of disputes, II-27;
prevention of slander, II-29;
agency for consultation with National Assem-
bly, III-6;
concentration of power in, IV-1;
legal constitution of, IV-2;
obedience of to National Assembly imperative,
IV-2;
to establish a Fund, IV-2 ;
national activities not under jurisdiction
of
IV4;
'
consultation, IV-11-12;
procedure on appeals from decisions of, IV-15-
16-17.
Assembly,
National
Spiritual,
correspondence
with individual believers, I-14;
contact with civil authorities,
I-17;
institution
of, II-9;
relation of local Assembly to, II-24;
election of, IIl-1-2;
independence of, III-2;
INDEX, SHEET 1
Assembly, National Spiritual, Continued
unique significance of, III-2 •
qu:3-li~cations of members of: III-3;
prm~1ple of plurality vote, III-4;
considered verdict to be upheld, III-4;
the supreme body, III-4-5;
must uphold and enforce constitution
III-5;
two cardinal principles, III-5 •
'
undisputed authority
reaff~ed
III-5 •
consultation with believers thr~ugh Io~al As-
semblies, III-.:6;
main purpose of Nineteen Day Feasts, III-6;
status of members at Convention III-6 •
establishment of, IV-1;
'
'
purpose of, IV-1;
to be annually re-elected, IV-1;
to exercise full authority, IV-1;
to appoint committees, IV-1 •
decides what issues are national
IV-1 •
to evolve into National House of Justic~ IV-1 •
to elect members of International
Ho~se of
Justice, IV-1;
centralization of authority in, IV-1;
result if requisite is not realized IV-1 •
obedience of individual
Bahli'is,
d~legates,
groups and Assemblies to, IV-1-2 •
no conflict of authority, no duality, iV-2;
morally responsible for abuse of power by any
body or institution, IV-2;
sole link with International
House of Justice
IV-2;
'
disputes concerning to be referred to National
Assembly, IV-2;
no institution
can entertain
appeals against,
IV-2;
changes in membership of, IV-2;
:esponsibility
of, IV-10-11;
mternal procedure, IV-12-13-14-15;
calendar of annual actions, IV-12;
attendance of individual members not to be re-
ported, IV-13;
correspondence with individuals, IV-13;
consultation with believers, IV-13 •
Palestine Branch of, IV-15;
'
procedure for appeals from decisions of local
Assemblies, IV-15-16-17;
procedure for conduct of juridical
sessions,
IV-17-18.
Bab, in dramas, 1-2
Baha'i News, distribution of, IV-13
Baha'u'llah, in dramas, 1-2; basic principles of,
II-10; laws to be enforced, IV-7
Believer, Qualifications of, 1-1;
voting right of, I-14;
registration
of isolated believer, 1-14;
first approach local, then National Assembly,
I-15;
relation to community, I-15;
relation to Assembly, 1-15;
consultation on personal difficulties I-19;
admittance of new believer • II-15 ·'
preparation of, for member~hip, 1i-1s •
rights of, II-20;
'
transfer of, II-24;

BAHA'l PROCEDURE
Believer, Continued
contact with civil authorities, II-27;
misunderstandings and differences between, II-
27.
Bequest, form of, 1-17
Business, among believers, 1-22
By-Laws, of local Spiritual Assembly, II-8
Centers, status of, II-27
Civil authority, relations to, voting, 1-13; no al-
lusion to political leaders, 1-17; contact with
only through N.S.A., 1-17
Community, basis of, II-2; consultation with, II-
5; II-7; voting list, 11-15; qualifications of
membership in, II-16; preparation
of be-
lievers for membership in, II-18; residential
qualifications of voting membership in, 11-21;
unity of, IV-o-6-7
Compilations, publication of, 1-20
Consultation, proper method of, 1-6; character
of, 1-6; on personal difficulties, 1-19; Assem-
bly consultation,
IV-11-12; Assembly con-
sultation with individuals, IV-13
Convention, number of delegates fixed, IIl-1;
pJ:'.oportionate assignment of, IIl-1;
delegates to elect National Spiritual Assem-
bly, III-1;
Convention and National Spiritual Assembly
to exemplify high ideals, III-1;
Guardian's appeal to, III-1;
rightly elected Assembly appointed of God,
111-1;
delegates to fulfill functions of consultative and
co-operative body, IIl-2;
incoming Assembly to seek advice, 111-2;
National Assembly retains final decision, IIl-2;
consultation on matters requiring immediate
decision, IIl-2;
unanimity desired, majority decision prevails,
111-2;
election of delegates, IIl-2;
central principle of administration,
111-2;
two-fold purpose, IIl-3;
privilege and task of delegates, lll-3;
qualifications of Assembly members, 111-3;
to be annual, III-3;
to be held during Ridvan period, IIl-4;
time and place to be decided by National As-
sembly, IIl-4;
if necessary Convention can be omitted, Ill-4;
duty to attend, 111-4;
absent delegates to vote by mail, Ill-4;
freedom of elector, IIl-4-5;
Convention not the supreme body, Ill-4-5;
function is advisory, 111-5;
delegates independent, IIl-5;
election of Convention officers, 111-5;
Declaration
of Trust
and By-Laws binding
upon Convention, 111-5;
non-delegates not to intervene, lll-5;
two cardinal principles, IIl-5;
not a continuous body, 111-5;
not a body with parliamentary functions, Ill-6;
two-fold function of Convention, IIl-6;
INDEX, SHEET 2
Convention, Continued
status of National Assembly members at Con-
vention, lll-6;
summary of Convention functions, 111-6-7;
procedure for conduct of, 111-7-8-9;
Convention call, IIl-7;
order of business, Ill-8;
conduct of business, Ill-8-9;
annual election, IIl-9;
Convention record, IIl-9;
delegates to obey authority of National Assem-
bly, lV-1-2;
Disputes, settlement of civil, 1-17; between be-
lievers, 11-27; slander and backbiting, II-28
Elections, character of, II-23; 111-9
Fasting, Ordinance of, 1-2
Feasts, 1-7;
•
Anniversaries, 1-6;
calendar of, II-6.
Fund (local and national), taxes and spiritual
offerings, 1-4;
how funds are to be contributed, 1-5;
test of faith, 1-6; IV-3;
importance of, 1-21;
on collection of, II-26;
under exclusive control of Assembly, lV-2;
unlabelled donations to National Fund, lV-3;
contributions to be voluntary, IV-3;
importance of National Fund, IV-3;
anonymous contributions to, lV-3;
donations to National Fund tax exempt, IV-15.
Funeral service, Baha'i, 1-4; use of burial stones,
1-4
Greatest Name, translation
of symbol of, 1-2;
legally protected, 1-3
Groups, correspondent, 1-15
Guardian, letters of, 1-3; letters to individuals,
l-3; relation to individual believers, 1-3;
birthday not to be observed, 1-4; correspond-
ence with, II-20; publication of letters, lV-12
Leases, application for, lV-15
Marriage, nature of, 1-4
Memorial meetings, annual, II-26
National Committees, national activities to be re-
ferred to, IV-3-4; reports of, lV-4; relation
of to National Assembly, lV-4-5; Reviewing
Committee, IV-8; Publishing Committee, IV-
8-9; Archives Committee, lV-9; Regional
committees, lV-9; Youth Committee, IV-9
Nineteen Day Feast, 1-6; calendar of, II-6; An-
niversaries,
1-7; youth at, 1-21; personal
matters barred from, II-29; main purpose of,
111-6; conduct of, II-5-6-7.
Non-political character, 1-13
Organizations (non-Baha'i), membership in, 1-7;
contact with, 1-8; membership in, religious,
1-8; contact with, 11-26.
Orientals, association with, 1-19
Pilgrim's notes, not to be given prominence or
official recognition, 1-3; National Assembly
will not have them authenticated
nor co-
operate in their distribution,
IV-13.

BAHA'I PROCEDURE
Prayer, Daily Obligatory, I-1; congregational,
I-4.
Publishing, of compilations, I-20; co-operation
with authors, I-21; review and publication
by local Assembly, II-25.
Radio Programs, II-26
Real estate, holding of, IV-15
Relief, question of, I-21
Ringstones, use of, I-4
Slander and backbiting, see Disputes
Summer Schools, purpose of, I-20; leases of
property at, IV-15.
Tablets, and talks, distinction between, I-3.
Tax exemption, on donations to National Fund,
IV-15.
Teaching, care in presenting, I-14;
Organic Unity, I-14;
and administration,
I-15;
INDEX, SHEET 3
Teaching, Continued
status of traveling teacher, I-16;
individual freedom, I-16;
duty of every Baha'i, I-16;
individual teaching, I-16;
through drama and art, I-16;
material to be approved, I-16;
credentials for traveling teacher, I-17;
approach to important persons, I-17;
distinction between public and private, I-17;
not an economic system, I-20.
Temple meetings, I-5; chanting in, I-5; dramatic
performances in, I-5; models to be approved,
I-20; future contracts, IV-8.
Transliteration
of Persian terms, I-2
War, Baha'is and, I-11; action by League of Na-
tions, I-12.
Youth, activities, IV-9; attendance at Nineteen
Day Feast, I-21.