THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1995-12-19

To The Spiritual Assembly of the b aháís of m ala

kindly convey the following message to the ASeAN youth conference

which is to commence in kangar, p erlis, on 22 d ecember 1995:

As you gather for the second ASeAN youth conference, we re-

member with pride the abundant fruit of the first such conference

held in october 1994 in bangkok, Thailand, and attended by 220

youth from eleven countries. inspired by that gathering, some 90

youth arose to pioneer or travel-teach in many parts of the region.

Throughout the early history of the faith, young people were in

the vanguard of service to the beloved cause, becoming an inspiration

to succeeding generations; many attained the glory of martyrdom.

The services that bahá’í youth are called upon to undertake in these

times have their particular requirements but are no less demanding

of dedication and zeal if the teaching efforts in every country and the

building of b ahá’u’lláh’s New w orld o rder are to be assured.

receptive souls throughout Southeast Asia are waiting to hear the

message of the promised one, athirst for his life-giving Teachings.

The time to emblazon the name of bahá’u’lláh upon the hearts and

minds of these souls is now. let the few remaining years of the twen-

tieth century witness monumental victories for the faith, enhancing

beyond imagination the strength of your various communities as they

enter the new millennium.

T urn for your guidance to the Sacred writings and dedicate your-

selves to their systematic and daily study. As they permeate your hearts and minds, so may they strengthen you in your attempts to carry forth

the Teachings of bahá’u’lláh, the only source of the love and vision 207 .5

208.1

208.1a

208.1b

208.1c

208.1d

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

57necessary to bring about the unity of mankind. we urge you to arise

for service, determined to ignite the hearts of young people through-

out the region. we will pray ardently at the holy Threshold for the

confirmations of the blessed beauty to surround your conference, and

your subsequent work for h is holy cause.

209

Message to U.S. National Bahá’í Youth Conference

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]