THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1995-01-23

To the National Spiritual Assemblies of the Bahá

dear f riends,

As the twentieth century rapidly approaches its end, there is a marked

acceleration in the efforts of governments and peoples to reach common

understandings on issues affecting the future of humankind. The 1992 conference on environment and development held in rio de janeiro, the

1993 world conference on human rights in vienna, the 1994 interna-

tional conference on population and development in cairo, the forthcom-

ing march 1995 world Summit for Social development in copenhagen, to

be followed in September by the fourth world conference on women in

beijing, are conspicuous indications of this acceleration. These events are as

capstones to the myriad activities taking place in different parts of the world involving a wide range of nongovernmental organizations and networks in

an urgent search for values, ideas and practical measures that can advance

prospects for the peaceful development of all peoples. in this endeavor can

be discerned the gathering momentum of an emerging unity of thought in world undertakings, the realization of which our sacred scriptures describe

as one of the lights of unity that will illumine the path to peace. The bahá’ís

around the world are, of course, heartened by such hopeful trends and will

continue increasingly to lend moral and practical support to them as op-portunities allow.

in view of the intensive attention being given to the issues of social and

economic development since the earth Summit in brazil, we requested the

bahá’í international community’s office of public information to prepare

a statement on the concept of global prosperity in the context of the bahá’í

Teachings. This statement is now ready for distribution. we are therefore

very pleased to send each of you herewith a copy of The Prosperity of  Hu-

mankind and to commend it to your use as you pursue activities that enable

you to interact with governments, organizations, and people everywhere.

194-1

194-1. The statement is available online at http://www.bic-un.bahai.org/95-0303.

htm.194.1

194.2

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

18our confident hope is that the statement will assist you to foster under-

standing of this important topic among the members of your communities

and thus vitalize their contribution to the constructive social processes at

work throughout the planet.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

195

Release of a Compilation on Scholarship

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]