THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1999-11-26

To the b ahá’ís of the w orld

dearly loved f riends,

on this special day, when our hearts and thoughts are focused on the

immortal example set by the life of the center of the covenant, we pause

to note, with feelings of deep gratitude, the current progress of the divine

plan which he conceived, and to glance at the future beyond the four-year

stage now rapidly coming to an end.312.1

312.2

312.3

313.1

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

695The accomplishments during this period are encouraging indeed. An

impressive network of training institutes on a scale but dimly imagined

at the start of the plan has been established throughout the world. These

nascent centers of learning have made significant strides in developing for-

mal programs and in putting into place effective systems for the delivery of courses. reports indicate that the number of believers benefiting directly

from training courses has climbed to nearly 100,000. without question, the

capacity of the worldwide community to develop its human resources has been distinctly enhanced.

The effects of this systematic approach to human resource development

are making themselves felt in the lives of all three protagonists of the plan—

the individual believer, the institutions, and the local community. There has been an upsurge in teaching activities undertaken at the initiative of the

individual. Spiritual Assemblies, councils, and committees have grown in

their ability to guide the believers in their individual and collective endeav-

ors. And community life has flourished, even in localities long dormant, as new patterns of thought and behavior have emerged.

As we survey the bahá’í world, we see a greatly strengthened community,

internally sound and notably reinforced. its achievements in reaching the

general public, governments and organizations of civil society and in win-ning trust in all these circles are striking. Agencies specialized in external

affairs, following a well-defined strategy, have broadened the range of the

faith’s influence nationally and internationally, and projects of social and

economic development, which seek the spiritual and material upliftment of

entire communities, are penetrating society at the grassroots.

The two stages in the unfoldment of the divine plan lying immedi-

ately ahead will last one year and five years respectively. At ri¤ván 2000

the bahá’í world will be asked to embark on the first of these two stages, a

twelve-month effort aimed at concentrating the forces, the capacities and

the insights that have so strongly emerged. The five year plan that fol-

lows will initiate a series of worldwide enterprises that will carry the bahá’í

community through the final twenty years in the first century of the faith’s

formative Age. These global plans will continue to focus on advancing the

process of entry by troops and on its systematic acceleration.

it is essential that, during the one-year effort, national and regional in-

stitutes everywhere bring into full operation the programs and systems that they have now devised. National communities should enter the five year

plan confident that the acquisition of knowledge, qualities and skills of ser-313.2

313.3

313.4

313.5

313.6

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

696vice by large contingents of believers, with the aid of a sequence of courses,

will proceed unhindered. Ample attention must also be given to further

systematization of teaching efforts, whether undertaken by the individual or

directed by the institutions. in this respect, the international Teaching cen-

ter has identified certain patterns of systematic expansion and consolidation for relatively small geographical areas consisting of a manageable number of

localities. Through the collaboration of counselors and National Spiritual

Assemblies, several “Area growth programs” are being established in each

continent. They will be carefully monitored during the T welve month plan

and their methods will be refined so that this approach can be incorporated into subsequent p lans.

Strategies to advance the process of entry by troops cannot ignore chil-

dren and junior youth, if the victories won in one generation are not to be lost with the passage of time. it is imperative, then, that at this point in the

process of systematization of the teaching work, definite steps be taken to

ensure that the vision of the community fully embraces its younger mem-bers. The education of children, an obligation enjoined on both parents and

institutions, requires special emphasis so as to become thoroughly integrated

into the process of community development. This activity should be taken to new levels of intensity during these twelve months and then be further raised in the years immediately after. That the programs of most institutes

in the world provide for the training of children’s class teachers represents an

element of strength. Spiritual Assemblies and Auxiliary board members will

need to mobilize these newly trained human resources to meet the spiritual

requirements of children and junior youth.

The period of the T welve month plan will be marked by great activity

in society at large as the twentieth century draws to a close. Already keen

interest is being shown by leaders of thought in the destiny of the coming

generations, and we hope that the fervor of the bahá’í community, both in

its internal operation and its interactions with society, will convey a sense of

confidence in the future of humanity.

we will pray ardently in the holy Shrines that bahá’u’lláh will bless your

exertions to bring the f our y ear p lan to a triumphal conclusion.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

313.8

313.9

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

697314

Interfaith Gathering in India in the Presence of

Pope John Paul II

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]