THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

12 December 2021

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

As you know from the message dated 25 November 2020 to the Bahá’ís of the world on the occasion of the Day of the Covenant, the Universal House of Justice had commissioned the production of a film that will reflect on the expiration of the first hundred years of the Formative Age from the vantage point of the heights to which the Bahá’í community has climbed. We are pleased to inform you that this film has now advanced to a stage where more details can be provided. The film, titled Glimpses of a Hundred Years of Endeavour, will have a running time of 67 minutes. Naturally, the exact manner in which it is utilized by the friends will largely depend on local circumstances.

Translation of the film can now commence for those National Spiritual Assemblies that wish to prepare a subtitled version, use the voice-over technique to dub the film, or both. In order to assist with the preparation of local-language versions, a low-resolution version with English subtitles, together with the full transcript in English and relevant technical information, has been made available through Google Drive…. Over the next two weeks, translations of the full transcript in Arabic, French, Persian, Russian, Spanish, and Swahili will be made available through the same website. High-resolution, subtitled, and voice-over copies of the film as well as a file with a design for the DVD cover can be accessed … once they become available; kindly check the website periodically.

By 3 January 2022, the completed film, including all of the language versions prepared at the Bahá’í World Centre, will be made available for National Spiritual Assemblies to view or download on the Bahai.org website, in a number of formats to suit different needs. At that point, versions in other languages will need to be finalized by relevant National Assemblies and steps immediately taken to prepare for the widespread dissemination of the film, for example through copies on DVD or flash drive….

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]