JESUS † The Complete Biography
Peter Terry
BOOK THE FIRST
Introduction
Every attempt to tell this story must begin by admitting its incapacity to
adequately encompass the life, teachings, influence and overall historical
significance of a man from Galilee who set foot upon the earth over two
millennia ago.  The principal source of our knowledge of this man are
recorded in the four gospels of the New Testament, along with the Acts of the
Apostles, the Epistles and the Apocalypse.  This attempt seeks to combine the
classical  harmony  of the  gospels,  also  called  a  lectionary,  and  which  is
probably  the  earliest  form  in  which  this  story  was  written  down  and
disseminated among the Christian faithful; with correlations and connections
to other persons and events occurring during the same time, and written
down soon afterwards or even centuries later.  These include the activities and
writings of the other Jewish people, those who did not affirm Jesus as their
Messiah -- including those preserved in the Talmud, the apocrypha, the
pseudepigrapha, the books of Titus Flavius Josephus and Philo Judaeus, and,
the so-called Dead Sea Scrolls, literature discovered in the Qumran caves and
Masada.  They also cite the life and teachings of Apollonius of Tyana, a
famous Greek-speaking contemporary, and of other Greek thinkers of the
time.  The third set of referents are those of the Romans, including rulers,
historians and philosophers.  It is not assumed that the reader is a Christian;
nor that s/he is not a Christian.  The truth will be told, as objectively as
possible, and the reader will come to his or her own conclusions.
Setting the Stage
The principal chronicles for the life of Jesus begin very differently from one
another – Matthew begins with a genealogy, of Joseph, the step-father of the
spirit-conceived Jesus, and hence only his genealogy by adoption.  It then
proceeds to the annunciation of his birth and the birth itself; Mark begans
roughly with chapter 3 of Matthew, with the baptism of Jesus by John; Luke
begins with the annunciation, of the birth of John and then of Jesus, then
proceeds to the two births with a little bit of historical context, and then cuts
to the baptism of Jesus by John, and at the end of chapter 3 the genealogy is

JESUS † The Complete Biography
inserted, a backwards geneaology, but still of Joseph rather than Jesus; and
John begins with a theological and cosmic setting of the stage, reminiscent of
the opening of Bereshit/Genesis, then cuts to John and the baptism of Jesus.
We will try to set the stage in another way, one that is more familiar perhaps
with modern readers than with the ancients.  We don’t generally begin with
genealogies or with cosmologies or jump into the story without preliminaries,
unless we intend to come back to them later.  None of the canonical gospels
does that…they never hearken back to before the beginning, except, very
briefly, Luke’s insertion of his backwards genealogy in chapter 3.  The first
readers of these chronicles were pretty familiar, from their oral histories and
from their day to day lives, with much of the detail that we don’t know about
unless  it  is  told  to  us.   So  we  will  begin  with  the  people  who  were
contemporaries of Jesus and with whom he had some kind of relationship.
We will begin with those people he came to value the most – the children, the
women, the poor, the diseased, the disabled, the possessed.  The children
were born many to each family, and perhaps a half dozen or so survived their
infancies and grew to some degree of adulthood.  They did not attend school,
they did not have toys except those they fashioned for themselves, and if they
had one set of clothes that fit and that protected their skins, they were
probably fortunate.  They walked barefoot, most likely.  Very young the girls
would help out their mothers in the field, in the kitchen, anywhere she needed
assistance.  She had no slaves and no servants, so she needed her girls to help
her, the older to take care of the younger.  The boys would help their fathers,
wherever they labored, be it fishing in the Sea of Galilee or along the banks of
the Mediterranean, farming, tending the goats and sheep and perhaps cattle if
they had the means, in the building trades, in all the varied occupations that
men engaged in to keep body and spirit together.  The children were obedient
to their parents and respectful of their elders, because it was impossible to
manage a family with multiple generations living under one roof or in one
cluster of huts without a clear chain of command and a job for every person.
Like children today, the children then were cursed and beaten by their
parents and by their older siblings and by the other bigger children in their
neighborhoods, and they had nobody to defend them.  They had early on to
learn how to defend themselves, with words, with cunning, with force if
necessary.  We might imagine that this was a bleak existence…but having
lived in a country village as a boy myself, I well recall the pleasures, the joys,
the comforts of a simple life close to nature.  Every rock, every tree, every
flower has meaning for a child who is not overwhelmed with man-made
material things.  He rejoices when it is warm, he rejoices when the wind
blows, he rejoices when the birds sing.  And he makes real friends, the friends
who share their all, their hearts, their thoughts, their sustenance.  Those who
have little, and children have the littlest of the little, share much and are
happy in the sharing.  Jesus knew many of these children, his half brothers
and half sisters, his cousins, his neighbors.  As a child, he played with them.
As a man he remembered his childhood and felt their vulnerability, their

JESUS † The Complete Biography
innocence and beauty, and he sought to protect them and cherish them.  Of all
beings created by God his Father, he loved children the most.
Women living in Judaea, in the Galilee, in Samaria, Philistina, and along the
coast of the great sea we call Mediterranean lived then as they do today…in
poor districts of Arab countries virtually untouched by modern civilization.
They were girls at their mothers’ beck and call, and then married and had
children of their own, soon after they reached puberty, most certainly by the
age of twelve or thirteen.   Since most of the families were  engaged  in
subsistence  farming,  whatever  else  they  might  be  doing  to  support
themselves, they had need of their children to help with the daily work of life.
But when it came time for them to marry, there was a change of status.  It has
been assumed that, as the custom survives to this day, each girl went to the
home of her husband, and helped her mother in law with the management of
their household; and each boy stayed home with his parents and his wife
joined him there and they raised their children in his childhood home.  But
the  Israelites  do  not  seem  to  have  followed  this  tradition.   Instead,
Bereshit/Genesis  (2:24) indicates that it  was their  custom for  men and
women alike to leave their parents and live independently of them.  Indeed,
this is confirmed by two of the gospels of Mark (10:7-8) and Matthew (19:5-
6), as well as by the stories of the patriarchs.  Hence, when they married,
women began a new life, with a husband, perhaps in the same town in which
both sets of parents resided, and perhaps not.  But her day to day work was
similar, from her girlhood to her womanhood, only now she took the lead
with the women’s work, and when she bore daughters, they became her
assistants, her apprentices in womancraft.
Not all women though followed this pattern from childhood to old age.  Some
women were born to riches, and did no laboring themselves, but their fathers
and their husbands procured slaves or hired servants to do this woman’s
work, and they could attend to other things.  For as the husband of such a
woman could have any woman he wanted, his wife would have make every
effort to be attractive to him in order to keep his loyalty.  She would have to
entertain him, delight him, seduce him, make him jealous, in order to have
him continue to provide her with her privileged status and lifestyle.  In other
words, whether she was a prostitute before she married, she almost invariably
became one once married, in order to stay married.  And if her husband
should divorce her, as moneyed people did (but rarely the poor, because the
burden of family disapproval and of singlehood was too much for any man or
woman to bear), she would whore in order to attract a new patron.  While
certainly  there  were  poor  women  who  supplemented  their  income  with
prostitution, it was rare because the village would not tolerate this treasonous
undermining of social integration…they depended upon the stable family to
ensure their survival.  And a poor woman could only earn poor wages and
never afford the luxury items that made the life of a whore attractive in the
first place.  Jesus knew women, like the Samaritan he met at the well of Yakov
who were not chaste and loyal to one man.  And he no doubt knew other

JESUS † The Complete Biography
women who were the whores of rich and powerful men, such as Salome the
daughter of Herodias who received the head of John the Baptist for her
mother’s satisfaction.  When he read and recited the words of the prophets
about whores, he knew what they were speaking about.  But he was not angry
with those women.  He understood that they were the captives of sin…the
captives of egoism, of pleasure, of addiction, of greed, of vanity, of a slave
mentality from which they did not know how to free themselves.  He had
compassion for them, not contempt; he was disposed to forgive and not to
punish; he told a woman who had been unfaithful to repent and sin no more,
rather than permitting self-righteous men to stone her to death.
Most of the people that Jesus knew were poor.  They were poor as so many of
those living in villages of the developing world are poor to this day, two
millennia after the evens depicted in this story.  They scratched together a
living, for as long as they could, doing whatever labor would earn them their
bread.  Remember the prayer Jesus taught to his disciples – “give us this day
our daily bread”2 – for subsistence is what the poor sought to provide for
themselves and their families.  They had no hope, no chance of escaping
poverty, of attaining material wealth.  They participated in an economy that
was neither socialist nor capitalist – it did not provide the security of state
welfare and universal employment, nor did it provide the freedom of trade
and of investment that can enable the rags to riches story to become a reality
for some.  It was a slave economy, and the owners of the slaves were the
political and economic masters of the situation.
In all of the regions of the land of Israel, the rulers during the lifetime of Jesus
were Romans and their Jewish allies.  These allies were descendants of King
Herod the Great (74/73/ruled 37 BCE - 4 BCE), who was ruthless towards
Sadducees and Pharisees alike, chosen his own religious hierarchy, rebuilding
the temple on a grand scale, as well as Caesaria, a port north of present day
Tel-Aviv, and fortresses at Masada and Herodium, where he was buried.  The
longest ruling was Herod Antipater (called Antipas: 20 BCE-39 CE), who
ruled Galilee from 4 BCE to 39 CE, along with his family, and their entourage.
It was this Herod who issued the order to imprison and then to behead John
the Baptist.  His second wife was Herodias, formerly spouse of Herod II, his
half-brother who never ruled at all.  Herod Antipas’ brother, called Herod
Archelaus (23 BCE – 18 CE) ruled Judaea, Samaria and Idumea (now the
border country of Jordan, on the other side of the Dead Sea), from his father’s
death, in 4 BCE to 6 CE, when he was relieved of his throne and disappeared
from  history.   He  was  confirmed  in  his  position,  when  he  ruthlessly
suppressed  dissent  in  Jerusalem…and  event  that  must  have  left  bitter
memories for all those alive at the time.  We will come back to that.
2Matthew 6:11 (variant Luke 11:3 – “Give us day by day our daily bread.”

JESUS † The Complete Biography
From 6 CE until long after the destruction of Jerusalem in 70 CE, a succession
of Roman officials ruled Herod Archelaus’ former realms: Coponius (6-9 CE),
Marcus Ambivulus (9-13 CE), Annius Rufus (13-15 CE), Valerius Gratus (15-
26 CE) and Pontius Pilatus (26-36 CE).  The Herodians were famed for their
love of all things Roman, and their frequent quarrels with the observant Jews
over whom they ruled.  The Romans were famed for their love of all things
Roman, and their ruthless incomprehension of the Jews they ruled.  The
ruling class was not well integrated with the social fabric of the country.
When Jesus speaks disparagingly of the rich, it is because the only people who
were rich in his age were determined to possess the totality of the resources,
leaving only enough to the masses to survive.  “It is easier for a camel to go
through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom
of God”3 was not an exaggeration – this was the truth about the rich of his
time.  They ruled with iron fists, and iron swords, and iron wills.  They were
military men, but they had such power that they certainly enjoyed all of the
pleasures that scultures and paintings and stories have depicted in Pompei
and other Roman cities.  If whoring was going on in Babylonia, it was
flourishing in Rome.  It cannot be repeated often enough that the Roman
economy, its military and its entire society depended upon slavery for its
existence.  While slavery existed in ancient Israel, and there were no doubt
many slaves of many nations serving the Romans and the Herodians in their
city dwellings, the poor of Galilee, Samaria and Judaea were most of them not
outright slaves…they were serfs.  They probably owned no land and they
certainly paid taxes to support the lavish lifestyle of their rulers.  Although
most of them were not slaves of the Romans, they had no freedom.  Hence,
when Jesus spoke to them of the Jubilee and of freedom, this was novel and
appealing for a population that was accustomed to bone weary work and no
prospect of either liberty or progress.
Herod the Great was near to death, and his son by his Samaritan wife
Malthace, Herod Archelaus was acting on his behalf.  According to Titus
Flavius Josephus, who described the occurrence many years later in his
“Antiquities of the Jews” (17.6.5), Archelaus ascended the throne
and heard the crowd assembled just before Pesach in 4 BCE.
They were upset about the death penalty ordered for two of the
rabbanim and  fourty  of  their students.   They  demanded  the
replacement of the Kohen ha-gadol, as the one appointed by his
father was not sufficiently pious.  Archelaus made excuses and
left to feast with his friends.  He then sent a military envoy with
a small group under their command to tell the crowd to cease
and  desist  and  await  confirmation  from  Rome  of  Archelaus’
appointment  to  the  throne.   The  envoys  were  stoned  by the
crowd and many were killed.  The crowd then returned to the
sacrifices that preceded Pesach. Abruptly Archelaus ordered the
3Gospel of Mark 10:25

JESUS † The Complete Biography
entire army to subdue the seditious mob.  Josephus estimated
that 3000 Jews gathered for Pesah were killed in that night.
Archelaus then sent heralds about the city cancelling Pesach for
that year.  It is unimaginable that a slaughter on this scale would
be forgotten, even a decade or two later.  Jesus must have been
told this story, over and over, and it must have haunted him,
gentle soul that he was, and perhaps this tragedy impelled him
as a young man to oppose all violence, all rebellion, and even the
angry sentiments and words that are the roots of discord.
Where were we?  With the poor…and among the poor, the most destitute of
the poor are those who are ill, those who are handicapped, those who are
deranged.  A poor man or woman who is of sound body and mind can usually
fend for himself or herself and survive.  Billions of our fellow homo sapiens
have done so over the centuries and millennia.  But a man or woman who is
severely ill, who is blind before braille, deaf before sign language, possessed
before psychiatrists and exorcists (apart from the expensive magicians, who
didn’t work for the poor, but attached themselves to the courts of the rich and
powerful), this one has hardly a chance of limping on day by day.  Poverty
does not in itself bring suffering.  But those who are poor and also less than
whole, they suffer, and Jesus felt their suffering.  He couldn’t pass a suffering
soul in the street without feeling that suffering himself, in his very body and
soul.  Later he was to tell his followers that if they refused help to anyone, they
were refusing it to him.  Doubtless many of them did not understand.  He felt
this suffering acutely, personally.  And in his day suffering was out in the
open, as it is in poor countries and poor neighborhoods in rich countries
today.  There were no special clinics or hospitals or halfway houses for the
infirm.  They survived on the generosity of the poor.  The blind were leading
the blind, because the seeing wouldn’t go near them.
While the children were many and there were women all about, and the
diseased  and  deformed  and  possessed  were  in  plain  view,  there  was  a
universal condition that characterized every soul Jesus encountered, from the
very time of his birth.  We don’t know what he remembered of his childhood,
or whether, in such an extraordinary character, his childhood memories
shaped his views and his actions in later life.  But we know that every soul he
met was burdened with estrangement from God and from fellow humans.
That is what he called “sin”.  And when he called for “repentence” in later life,
it was a summons to abandon that estrangement, to come back to the loving
Creator, to return to loving fellow humans as the child loves their mother.  In
every heart there lurked the devils of disappointment, or hurt feelings, of
anger and betrayal.  In every heart there also resided the hope for redemption,
for being saved, for being liberated from this burden of estrangement, this
bringer of death, this deprivation of light and warmth that is not the darkness
of black but the absence of life.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Jesus was not alone in his wisdom.  His most famous contemporary from the
perspective of his fellow Jews centuries later, was Hillel ben David, born in
Babylonia,  a  disciple  of Shemaia  and  Avtalion,  appointed  a  nasi  in the
Sanhedrin in Jerusalem early in the reign of King Herod the Great.  Hillel was
famous  for  his  gentle  and  peace-loving  character,  for  his  patience,  his
modesty,  his  charitable  generosity.   He  established  the  school  of  legal
interpretation  known  as  Beit  Hillel,  as  well  as  seven  rules  for  the
interpretation of the Oral Torah, later written down and called the Mishnah
and Gemara – together, the Talmud.  Hillel is most famous for two sayings
indicating his ethical minimalism (or essentialism) – one is that the essence of
the Torah is to love one’s neighbor like oneself; and the other is to take action
now and without excuses or delays.
A contemporary of Hillel was Shammai, who was the founded of the Beit
Shammai school of legal interpretation, also reported in detail in the Talmud,
and famous for his more stringent and maximalist position with regard to
most legal decisions.   He was fearless and outspoken in his disagreements
with Hillel, and also a warm-hearted person.  Other contemporaries include
Measha, Menachem, Chanania ben Hezekiah ben Gurion, and the many
disciples of Shammai and Hillel.  Disciples of Shammai included Dostal of
Kefar Yathma, Yoezer le Bira, Rav Yochanan ben ha-Horani.  The most
famous of the first generation after Hillel was Rabban Yohanan ben Zakkai,
the last of Hillel’s disciples who persuaded Vespasian not to destroy the
Jewish college in Yavne.  Of the same generation as ben Zakkai were Admon
ben Gaddai, Ben Buchri, Samuel the Younger, and Chanan ben Avishalom.
Mentioned in the gospels and the Acts of the Apostles were Rav Gamaliel the
Elder, a grandson of Rav Hillel.   Others listed but without affiliation with
either Beit Shammai or Beit Hillel were Rav Chanina, Rav Yochanan ben
Gudgada, Abba Yose Choli Kufri, Menachem ben Signai, Nachum the Mede,
Nachum the Scrivener, Simon of Mitzpa, Rav Zecharia ben ha-Kazzav and
Rav  Zecharia  ben  Kavutal.  All  of  these  hachamim  (wise  men)  were
remembered in the Talmud, written down hundreds of years later.  They were
members of the rabbinical school that emerged from the Pharisees, as they
had emerged from the Hassidim in the time of the Hasmonaean dynasty.
Jesus was certainly familiar with the views of the Pharisees, and careful
comparisions of their teachings with his have demonstrated agreement on
most points.  However, the gospel chroniclers include many stories in which
Jesus took objection not to the ideology of the Pharisees but to their actions,
and lack of actions.  He wanted to see more ethical behavior emitting from
self-described righteous men and less talk about how many angels can fit on
the head of a pin.  Nevertheless, Jesus was not alone, and in Beit Hillel
especially we find much mutual resonance.
How then did the followers of the rabbanim go in one direction and the
followers of Jesus in another?  We are getting ahead of ourselves if we try to
answer those questions now, before looking at his whole life.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
To provide a foil for his story, we are including excerpts from the biography of
Apollonius of Tyana, a contemporary of Jesus who provides contrast rather
than similarity.  Too much sameness may well lull us into believing that Jesus
was not exceptional, that there were plenty of people like him with teachings
like his.  If that were the case there would not be so many millions of people
grappling  with  him  and  his  ideas  two  millennia  after  he  disappeared…
grappling and finding new life and new inspiration every day.
In the beginning God
In the first verse of the first book of the Torah, the holy book of the Jewish
people, and of Jesus and his disciples and other companions, it is written:
In the entirety of the TANAKH, there are a four references to YHWH as the
“Father” – three in the Torah: one in the second book, Shmot/Exodus, two in
the fifth book, Devarim/Deuteronomy, only one by name; nine in the Neviim
– three in Isaiah, three in Jeremiah, two in Hosea, and one in Malachi;  -- one
in  Samuel,  three  in  Chronicles,  and  and  and  one  in  the  first  book  of
Chronicles.  There are, in addition, four references to Israel and his progeny
being the sons of YHWH, one in the second book of Torah, one in the book of
Hosea, and one in the first book of Chronicles.
In Torah:
4:22  ְׁשְׁשמֹות (Masoretic Hebrew text):
ְּבְּבִנִני ְבְבֹכֹכִר י ִיִיְׂשְׂשָרָרֵאֵאל
ֹּכֹּכה ָאַמַמר ְיהָוָוה
ΕΞΟΔΟΣ 4:22 (Septuagint Greek text):


τάδε λέγει Κύριος·
π
υἱὸς ρωτότοκός

·
μου ᾿Ισραήλ
Exodus 4:22 (KJV English translation):
Thus saith the LORD [YHWH], Israel is my son [beniy], even my firstborn
[bechoriy]
ְּדְּדָבִר ים14:1
(Masoretic Hebrew text):
ַליהָוָוה ֱאֹלֵהיֶכם ַאֶּתֶּתם ָּבִנִנים
Deuteronomy 14:1-2 (KJV English translation):
1Ye are the children [banim] of the Lord your God [YHWH Eloheichem] :
ye shall not cut yourselves, nor make any baldness between your eyes for
the dead.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
2 For thou art an holy people unto the Lord thy God, and the Lord hath
chosen thee to be a peculiar people unto himself, above all the nations
that are upon the earth.
ְּדְּדָבִר ים32:5-6
(Masoretic Hebrew text):
ּוְפְפַתַתְלֹּ תל ּדֹור ִעִעֵּקֵּקׁש מּוָמם
ָּבָניו
ִׁשֵחֵחת לֹו ֹלא
ֹכֹכְנֶנָךהּוא ָעְׂשְׂשָך ַוְי ָּקֶנָך ָאִביָך
לֹואההּוא ֲ
ְוֹלא ָחָכם ַעם ָנָבל ֹזֹזאת ִּתְגְגְמלּו
ְלְיהָוָוה
Deuteronomy 32:5-6 (KJV English translation):
5 They have corrupted themselves, their spot is not the spot of his children
[banaiv]: they are a perverse and crooked generation.
6 Do ye thus requite the Lord [YHWH], O foolish people and unwise? is
not he thy father [hu avikha] that hath bought thee? hath he not made
thee, and established thee?
The verse Shmot/Exodus plainly identifies “Israel” - meaning collectively
the descendants of “Israel” – as “my son”, and not only His son, but “my
firstborn son”.   The verse from Devarim/Deuteronomy Also refers to YHWH
the “father” of the Israelites, who has “bought” them (ָּקָּקֶנֶנָך), “made” them (ָעָעְׂשְׂשָך)
and “established” them (ְנֶנֶנָךכְי ְיֹֹ).
In the Neviim (the prophets), there are nine verses which refer to YHWH
as “Father” and two to the descendants of Israel as His “sons and children”:
ְעָיהּושְיְיַׁ1:2
(Masoretic Hebrew text):
יתְמ ִִּּמי ְוְורֹוַתְל ְלִִּּדַַּּגים  ִִּּנָּבָּבִ
Isaiah 1:2-4 (KJV English translation):
2 Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth: for the Lord hath spoken, I have
nourished [bidaltiy] and brought up [romamtiy] children [bahiym], and
they have rebelled against me.
3 The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib: but Israel doth
not know, my people doth not consider.
4 Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evildoers,
children that are corrupters: they have forsaken the Lord, they have

JESUS † The Complete Biography
provoked the Holy One of Israel unto anger, they are gone away
backward.
ְעָיהּושְיְיַׁ63:16
(Masoretic Hebrew text):
ינּובָּתה ָא ִִאַַ
עֹוָלם ְׁשְׁשֶמָךמנּו ֵלֵאֲגינּו, ֹּבָּתה ְיְיהָוה ָא ִִאַַ
Isaiah 63:16 (KJV English translation):
thou art our father [atah aviynu]
thou, O LORD [YHWH], art [atah] our father [aviynu], our redeemer; thy
name is from everlasting.
ְעָיהּושְיְיַׁ
64:7
(Masoretic Hebrew text):
ינּו ָאָּתהבָּתה ְיְיהָוה, ָא ִִעְוְוַ
Isaiah 64:8 (KJV English translation):
But now, O LORD [YHWH], thou art [atah] our father [aviynu]
ְר ְמָיהּויִ3:4
(Masoretic Hebrew text):
איָבִִ
Jeremiah 2:1-2, 3:4 (KJV English translation):
1Moreover the word of the Lord came to me, saying,
2 Go and cry in the ears of Jerusalem, saying, Thus saith the Lord; I
remember thee, the kindness of thy youth, the love of thine espousals,
when thou wentest after me in the wilderness, in a land that was not sown.
//
4 Wilt thou not from this time cry unto me, My father [aviy], thou art the
guide of my youth?
ְר ְמָיהּויִ3:19
(Masoretic Hebrew text):
יבָא ִִ
רמַא ָוֹ
Jeremiah 3:17-19 (KJV English translation):
17 At that time they shall call Jerusalem the throne of the Lord; and all the
nations shall be gathered unto it, to the name of the Lord, to Jerusalem:
neither shall they walk any more after the imagination of their evil heart.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
18 In those days the house of Judah shall walk with the house of Israel, and
they shall come together out of the land of the north to the land that I
have given for an inheritance unto your fathers.
19 But I said, How shall I put thee among the children, and give thee a
pleasant land, a goodly heritage of the hosts of nations? and I said, Thou
shalt call me [vaomar], My father [aviy]; and shalt not turn away from me.
ְר ְמָיהּויִ31:8
,
(Masoretic Hebrew text):
ל ְלְלָאבאְׂשְׂשָר ֵיְלְלִ
יכי  ִִּּת ָהִיִ
הּוא ירִכ ְּב ֹֹ
םיִרְוְוֶאְפְפַ
םיִרי ֶאְפְפַליר ִקִּיַ
ןבֵה ֲ
Jeremiah 31:9, 20 (KJV English translation):
9 They shall come with weeping, and with supplications will I lead them: I will
cause them to walk by the rivers of waters in a straight way, wherein they
shall not stumble: for I am a father [le-av] to Israel [le-Israel], and Ephraim
is my firstborn [bechoriy]
20 Is Ephraim my dear son [ha-ben yakir liy].? is he a pleasant child? for
since I spake against him, I do earnestly remember him still: therefore my
bowels are troubled for him; I will surely have mercy upon him, saith the
LORD.
עהֹוֵׁשַ
2:1
(Masoretic Hebrew text):
לאְׂשְׂשָר ֵיִ
ינְּבֵ
רפְס ְסַַּּמְוְוָהָיה ִ
ָחָחי ינְּבֵ לאֵ
ר ָלֶהםמָאֵי ֵ
Hosea 1:10 (KJV English translation):
Yet the number of the children of Israel[beney yisrael]…
it shall be said unto them, Ye are the sons of the living God [el beney chay].
עַשהֹוֵׁ
11:1
(Masoretic Hebrew text):
ינְבִלִ הּובֵהֲאם ָוֹיִרְצְצַמִִּּמי ּוִת ָקָקָר אִ
לאְׂשְׂשָר ֵיִ
רעַני ַכ  ִִּּ
Hosea 11:1 (KJV English translation):

JESUS † The Complete Biography
When Israel was a child, then I loved him, and called my son [livney] out of
Egypt.
מיַכְלְלָאִ2:10
(Masoretic Hebrew text):
לֹואהֲ
ָאב ֶאָחָחד
ָּלָּלנּוכ ְלְלֻ
ל ֶאָחָחד ְּבָר ָאנּואלֹוא ֵהֲ
Malachi 2:  (KJV English translation):
8 But ye are departed out of the way; ye have caused many to stumble at
the law; ye have corrupted the covenant of Levi, saith the Lord of hosts.
9 Therefore have I also made you contemptible and base before all the
people, according as ye have not kept my ways, but have been partial in
the law.
10 Have we not all one father [av echad]? hath not one God created us?
why do we deal treacherously every man against his brother, by profaning
the covenant of our fathers?
11 Judah hath dealt treacherously, and an abomination is committed in
Israel and in Jerusalem; for Judah hath profaned the holiness of the Lord
which he loved, and hath married the daughter of a strange god.
In the Ketuvim there are four references to Solomon as the “son” of YHWH
and YHWH as his “father”, in Samuel and Chronicles; and three to David as
the “son” of YHWH as his “father”, in the Psalms:
לאב ְׁשְׁשמּוֵ
7:14
(Masoretic Hebrew text):
ּלֹו ְלְלָאב
י ֶאְהֶיהנִא ֲ
ןבי ְלְלֵלִּ
ְהֶיהי ְוְוהּוא ִ
2 Samuel 7:4-14 (KJV English translation:
4 And it came to pass that night, that the word of the Lord came unto
Nathan, saying,
5 Go and tell my servant David, Thus saith the Lord, Shalt thou build me an
house for me to dwell in?
6 Whereas I have not dwelt in any house since the time that I brought up the
children of Israel out of Egypt, even to this day, but have walked in a tent
and in a tabernacle.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
7 In all the places wherein I have walked with all the children of Israel spake I
a word with any of the tribes of Israel, whom I commanded to feed my
people Israel, saying, Why build ye not me an house of cedar?
8 Now therefore so shalt thou say unto my servant David, Thus saith the
Lord of hosts, I took thee from the sheepcote, from following the sheep,
to be ruler over my people, over Israel:
9 And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, and have cut off all thine
enemies out of thy sight, and have made thee a great name, like unto the
name of the great men that are in the earth.
10 Moreover I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them,
that they may dwell in a place of their own, and move no more; neither shall
the children of wickedness afflict them any more, as beforetime,
11 And as since the time that I commanded judges to be over my people
Israel, and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies. Also the Lord
telleth thee that he will make thee an house.
12 And when thy days be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, I
will set up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I
will establish his kingdom.
13 He shall build an house for my name, and I will stablish the throne of his
kingdom for ever.
14 I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he commit iniquity, I will
chasten him with the rod of men, and with the stripes of the children of
men:
א ִּדְבְבֵר י ַהָּיָּיִמים17:13
(Masoretic Hebrew text):
ּלֹו ְלְלָאב
י ֶאְהֶיהנִא ֲ
ןבי ְלְלֵלִּ
ְהֶיהי ְוְוהּוא ִ
1 Chronicles 17:11-15 (KJV English translation):
11 And it shall come to pass, when thy days be expired that thou must go to be with thy
fathers, that I will raise up thy seed after thee, which shall be of thy sons; and I will establish
his kingdom.
12 He shall build me an house, and I will stablish his throne for ever.
13 I will be his father [lo le-av), and he shall be my son [li le-ven]: and I will not
take my mercy away from him, as I took it from him that was before thee:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
14 But I will settle him in mine house and in my kingdom for ever: and his throne shall be
established for evermore.
15 According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so did Nathan speak unto
David.
א ִּדְבְבֵר י ַהָּיָּיִמים22:10
(Masoretic Hebrew text):
ןבְלְלֵ ילִּ
ְהֶיהי ְוְוהּוא ִ
ְלְלָאב לֹו
ינִאֲו ַ
1 Chronicles 22:7-11 (KJV English translation):
7 And David said to Solomon, My son, as for me, it was in my mind to build
an house unto the name of the Lord my God:
8 But the word of the Lord came to me, saying, Thou hast shed blood
abundantly, and hast made great wars: thou shalt not build an house unto
my name, because thou hast shed much blood upon the earth in my sight.
9 Behold, a son shall be born to thee, who shall be a man of rest; and I will
give him rest from all his enemies round about: for his name shall be
Solomon, and I will give peace and quietness unto Israel in his days.
10 He shall build an house for my name; and he shall be my son [li le-ven],
and I will be his father [lo le-av]; and I will establish the throne of his
kingdom over Israel for ever.
11 Now, my son, the Lord be with thee; and prosper thou, and build the
house of the Lord thy God, as he hath said of thee.
א ִּדְבְבֵר י ַהָּיָּיִמים28:6
(Masoretic Hebrew text):
ןבי ְלְלֵלִ
יכי  ִִּּתְר ִִּּחבֹו ָבַ
ּלֹו ְלְלָאב
י ֶאְהֶיהנִאֲוַ
1 Chronicles 28:6 (KJV English translation):
5 And of all my sons, (for the Lord hath given me many sons,) he hath
chosen Solomon my son to sit upon the throne of the kingdom of the Lord
over Israel.
6 And he said unto me, Solomon thy son, he shall build my house and my
courts: for I have chosen him to be my son [li le-ven], and I will be his father
[lo le-av].

JESUS † The Complete Biography
7 Moreover I will establish his kingdom for ever, if he be constant to do my
commandments and my judgments, as at this day.
יםלִּהְּתִ
(Masoretic Hebrew text):
ָּתהאי  ַַנִאיָך ֲתְד ִִּּלּיֹום ְיְיִהַ
ינְּבִ
Psalms 2:2-12 (KJV English translation):
2 The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel
together, against the Lord, and against his anointed, saying,
3 Let us break their bands asunder, and cast away their cords from us.
4 He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh: the Lord shall have them in
derision.
5 Then shall he speak unto them in his wrath, and vex them in his sore
displeasure.
6 Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion.
7 I will declare the decree: the Lord hath said unto me, Thou art my Son
[beniy atah]; this day [hayom] have I [aniy] begotten thee [yelidtiycha].
8 Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance, and the
uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession.
9 Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron; thou shalt dash them in pieces
like a potter's vessel.
10 Be wise now therefore, O ye kings: be instructed, ye judges of the
earth.
11 Serve the Lord with fear, and rejoice with trembling.
12 Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and ye perish from the way, when his
wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all they that put their trust in him.
יםלִּהְּתִ
68:6
(Masoretic Hebrew text):
יםמְיְיתֹוִ
יבִִאֲ
Psalm 68:5 (KJV English translation):
4 Sing unto God, sing praises to his name: extol him that rideth upon the
heavens by his name Jah, and rejoice before him.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
5 A father [aviy] of the fatherless [yetomiym], and a judge of the widows,
is God in his holy habitation.
יםלִּהְּתִ
89:27-28
(Masoretic Hebrew text):
ָאָּתהלִאֵ
יבָא ִִ
הּונֶאְּתֵ  ְּבכֹור
ינָאִ-ַאף
Psalm 89:20-29 (KJV English translation):
20 I have found David my servant; with my holy oil have I anointed him:
21 With whom my hand shall be established: mine arm also shall strengthen
him.
22 The enemy shall not exact upon him; nor the son of wickedness afflict
him.
23 And I will beat down his foes before his face, and plague them that hate
him.
24 But my faithfulness and my mercy shall be with him: and in my name shall
his horn be exalted.
25 I will set his hand also in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers.
26 He shall cry unto me, Thou art [atah] my father [aviy], my God [eli],
and the rock of my salvation.
27 Also I will make him my firstborn[bechor], higher than the kings of the
earth.
28 My mercy will I keep for him for evermore, and my covenant shall stand
fast with him.
29 His seed also will I make to endure for ever, and his throne as the days
of heaven.
What is the meaning of these passages?  Is there ever a statement that the
“Father”  generated  any  individuals  or  any  entire  people  through  sexual
relations?  This is a valid question, inasmuch as the Jewish contemporaries of
Jesus were in regular contact with Greeks and Romans, and probably to some
extent also with polytheist Arabs, Egyptians, and Babylonians, and that these
other populations believed that gods and goddesses procreated in much the
same fashion as human beings, and thereby gave birth to other gods and
goddesses, as well as demi-gods and demi-goddesses who were human beings
with superhuman powers.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The context and internal dynamics of these passages seem to point to a belief
that YHWH was the creator of all human beings, as He created the first man
and woman, Adam and Eve, and all subsequent human beings are descended
from these original parents.  Hence, He was not the personal parent of any
particular people, apart from Adam and Eve.  However, it could be affirmed
that the power of creation, of generation belonged to God alone, and hence
every new birth occurred through His creative power.  Hence, the human
parents would be the vehicles for procreation, but not the actual causes.
When the text speaks of God being the “Father” of particular peoples, the
descendants of Israel, of Efrayim, this speaks to these peoples being “chosen”
for  His  guidance  and  His  blessing,  and  also  for  shouldering  certain
responsibilities that would be theirs alone.  Finally, when it speaks of Him
being the “Father” of David, or Solomon, and of these individuals being His
“sons”, there is no suggestion that He replaced the human father of either of
these Israelite kings, but rather that He assumed a spiritual fatherhood,
selecting them to represent Him as His sons, His heirs to earthly kingship.
They were to guide the Israelites and ultimately, through Mashiach ben
David, all of humanity, as He guided the powers of the heavens and the earth,
of the sea and the rivers.  Hence, to be a “son” of this “Father” was to be His
chosen envoy among humanity.  The visit of the Queen of Sheba to King
Solomon, described in some detail, is the model for future visitations from
kings and rulers, predicted for Jerusalem in the time of Mashiach ben David.
The vision then is of a continuity of divine kingship, of the “sons” of the
“Father”, to continue beyond David and Solomon, into perpetuity.  How
ironic  then  that  the  dynasty  established  by  David  lasted  only  two
generations…that his united realm of Judaea, Samaria and Galilee did not
endure,  except  in  the  dreams  and  hopes  of  the  Jewish  people,  and
subsequently, transformed, in those of Christians.
One of the significances of the above-cited verses to this biography of Jesus is
that they demonstrate that in Biblical times (or in the collective memory of
those times), Jews referred to YHWH as their “Father”; and to themselves
collectively and to particular individuals, including David and Solomon (and
possibly of Mashiach ben David) as His “sons”.  Furthermore, YHWH is
recorded to have referred to Himself as the “Father” of individuals and
collectively of the descendants of Israel and Efrayim.  In the non-canonical
literature, its use is also rare – Apocrypha: Wisdom of Solomon 2:16; 14:3;
Tobias 13:4; Wisdom of Sirach 23:1, 4; 51:10); Pseudepigrapha: Jubilees
1:24, 28; 19:29; 3 Maccabees 5:7; 6:4, 8; Testament of Levi 18:6; Testament
of Judah 24:2; and Dead Sea Scrolls: 1 QH 9:35f.
Hence, YHWH is referred to as “Father” in texts associated with Jewish
tradition, and even in Jewish prayer.  Nevertheless, there is a much greater
concentration of references to God as “Father” in the New Testament than in
all of the citations mentioned thus far.   It is found no less than 65 times in the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
synoptic gospels, and over 100 times in the Gospel of John.  In all but one
example,  where the Aramaic  Abba is used (Mark 14:36) instead of the
Hebrew Av, it is in its Greek translation, pronounced “Pater”.
Shekhinah[Ruah Elohim]
The historical Jesus, the theological Jesus, the mystic Jesus is preceded by
the presence of God.  We will now approach Jesus as did the author of the
Gospel of John.  Before revieiwing the life story and teachings of the man
named Jesus (in Latin), Yesus (Greek), Yeshu'a (in Hebrew), we will address
the opening salvo in the Gospel of John:
1 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word
was God.  2 The same was in the beginning with God.  3 All things were made
by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made.  4 In him was
life; and the life was the light of men.
All things were made by Whom?  God or the Word?  In Whom was life and
the light of men?  This is immediately made apparent when we read on:
6 There was a man sent from God, whose name was John.  7 The same came
for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, that all men through him might
believe.  8 He was not that Light, but was sent to bear witness of that Light.
9 That was the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the
world.  10 He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world
knew him not.  11 He came unto his own, and his own received him not.  12 But
as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of
God, even to them that believe on his name:  13 Which were born, not of
blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.  14 And
the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory,
the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth.
15 John bare witness of him, and cried, saying, This was he of whom I spake,
He that cometh after me is preferred before me: for he was before me.
16 And of his fulness have all we received, and grace for grace.  17 For the law
was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ.  18 No man

JESUS † The Complete Biography
hath seen God at any time, the only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of
the Father, he hath declared him.
So, here are the answers to our questions:  All things were made by the Word
(1:10).  The Word was “the true light, which lighteth every man” (1:9).  The
Word was made flesh and lived with the author of this gospel and many
others (1:14), and his name was Jesus (1:17), and was called the Son of the
Father (1:18).  It is clear from these answers that the author of this gospel,
and apparently many of his fellow Christians believed that Jesus was not just
Messiah, but the incarnation of the Word of God, which created all things and
was from the beginning of the world and before its creation.  While we are
reeling from these statements so unexpected coming from a presumably
Jewish author referring to a Jewish historical person, we will now turn to
some of the statements of Jesus himself, which seem to suggest a cosmic
existence and identity.
Later in this same gospel, Jesus says: “I am the way, the truth, and the life:
no man cometh unto the Father, but by me.” (14:6)  But, at that point,
Jesus is talking with other people and he could have intended an entirely
different meaning from what the author of the gospel sought to convey in
its opening chapter.  There is every indication that Noah could have made
the same statement to his sons and descendants; that Abraham could also
have affirmed the same to his entourage and his sons; and, to fast forward
several centuries, Moses could also have affirmed that his teaching, his
Torah was “the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the
Father, but by me”.  Did Jesus actually claim a unique station for himself?
We now come to another statement attributed to him in the Gospel of John:
8:58 Verily, verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was, I am.
Who is this "I am" that was “before Abraham”?  Was it Jesus, son of Mary,
born in Bethlehem, raised in Nazareth, during the reign of Herod Antipas in
Galilee, Herod Archelaus in Judaea, and Herod Philip in Jordan?   In order to
answer this question, we must search for this expression "I am" in the Jewish
sacred literature.  We do not find any usage of this "I am" in the Biblical
chronicle preceding Abraham, but we do find one in the Book of Exodus:
3:14  And God said unto Moses, I AM THAT I AM [ehye asher ehye]: and he
said, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I AM [ehye] hath sent
me unto you.  3:15 And God said moreover unto Moses, Thus shalt thou say
unto the children of Israel, The Lord [YHWH] God of your fathers [elo hey
av Teychem] , the God of Abraham [elo hey avraham], the God of Isaac [elo
hey yitzkhak], the God of Jacob [ve-elo hey ya’acov], hath sent me unto

JESUS † The Complete Biography
you: this is my name for ever [zeh shmiy l’olam], and this is my memorial unto
all generations [ve zeh zikriy le dor va dor].
Is Jesus saying that he is YHWH, called "I am" and "I am that I am", which is
"my name for ever"?    Yes, even as YHWH spoke to Moses in the desert, so
YHWH spoke through Jesus, and all that Jesus said came from God.  The
Gospel of John is particularly copious with statements of Jesus affirming his
direct relationship with God:
5:19 Then answered Jesus and said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto
you, The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father
do: for what things soever he doeth, these also  doeth the Son
likewise.
6:57 As the living Father hath sent me, and I live by the Father: so he
that eateth me, even he shall live by me.  10:30 I and my Father are one.
10:34 Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, I said, Ye are gods?
10:35 If he called them gods, unto whom the word of God came, and the
scripture cannot be broken; 10:36 Say ye of him, whom the Father hath
sanctified, and sent into the world, Thou blasphemest; because I said, I am
the Son of God? 10:37 If I do not the works of my Father, believe me not.
10:38 But if I do, though ye believe not me, believe the works: that ye may
know, and believe, that the Father is in me, and I in him.
14:5 Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and how
can we know the way? 14:6 Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and
the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me. 14:7 If ye had known me,
ye should have known my Father also: and from henceforth ye know him, and
have seen him. 14:8 Philip saith unto him, Lord, shew us the Father, and it
sufficeth us. 14:9 Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you, and
yet hast thou not known me, Philip? he that hath seen me hath seen the
Father; and how sayest thou then, Shew us the Father? 14:10 Believest thou
not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? the words that I speak unto
you I speak not of myself: but the Father that dwelleth in me, he doeth the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
works. 14:11 Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me: or else
believe me for the very works' sake.
In the Gospel of John, Jesus also affirmed to his followers that he lived
and was loved by God “before the foundation of the world”, associated with
his divine Father, but not identical to Him:
17:5 And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory
which I had with thee before the world was.17:24 Father…thou lovedst me
before the foundation of the world.
Inasmuch as Jesus does the Will and speaks the Word of God, he is, as the
author of the Gospel of John affirms, associated with God from the beginning
(we repeat the text as it will be compared immediately with another):
1:1 In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word
was God. 1:2 The same was in the beginning with God.  1:3 All things were made
by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made.
In Jewish tradition, this Will and Word which has been since the beginning,
which was with God and of God is depicted in the first chapter of the first
book of the Torah:
1:1 In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.  1:2 And the earth
was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep.
And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.  1:3 And God said,
Let there be light: and there was light.
In the Aramaic translation and commentary of the Torah and other books of
the Bible, called the Targumim, and in all rabbinical commentaries on the
Biblical text, this Will and Word is denoted the “presence” of God.  When we
study the Torah (Pentateuch) and the Neviim (Prophets) we find many
references  to  this  “presence”  of  God,  in  its  cosmic  dimension,  that  is,
manifested to prophets and other purified souls in visions and dreams.
We first encounter a depiction of this “presence” in the Book of Exodus, once
above sapphire stone and once with the appearance of fire:
24:10 And they saw the God of Israel: and there was  under his feet as it were
a paved work of a sapphire stone, and as it were the body of heaven in his
clearness…

JESUS † The Complete Biography
24:16 And the glory of the Lord abode upon mount Sinai, and the cloud
covered it six days: and the seventh day he called unto Moses out of the
midst of the cloud.  24:17 And the  sight of the glory of the Lord was like
devouring fire on the top of the mount in the eyes of the children of Israel.
In the Book of Ezekiel, He sits upon a throne, which is like a sapphire stone in
color, and has the appearance of fire:
1:26 And above the firmament that was over their heads was the likeness of a
throne, as the appearance of a sapphire stone: and upon the likeness of the
throne was the likeness as the appearance of a man above upon it.  1:27 And I
saw as the colour of amber, as the appearance of fire round about within
it, from the appearance of his loins even upward, and from the appearance
of his loins even downward, I saw as it were the appearance of fire, and it
had brightness round about. 1:28 As the appearance of the bow that is in
the cloud in the day of rain, so was the appearance of the brightness
round about.  This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the
Lord.
8:2 Then I beheld, and lo a likeness as the appearance of fire: from the
appearance  of his loins  even downward, fire; and from  his  loins  even
upward, as the appearance of brightness, as the colour of amber.
10:1 Then I looked, and behold, in the firmament that was above the head of
the cherubims there appeared over them as it were a sapphire stone, as the
appearance of the likeness of a throne.
In the Book of Ezekiel, He has a voice like the noise of many waters:
43:2 And, behold, the glory of the God of Israel came from the way of the
East: and his voice was like a noise of many waters: and the earth shined
with his glory.
In the Book of Daniel, His hair is white, and His throne is like the fiery
flame:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
7:9 I beheld till the thrones were cast down, and the Ancient of days did sit,
whose garment was white as snow, and the hair of his head like the pure
wool: his throne was like the fiery flame, and his wheels as burning fire.  7:10
A  fiery  stream  issued  and  came  forth  from  before  him:  thousand
thousands ministered unto him, and ten thousand times ten thousand
stood before him: the judgment was set, and the books were opened.
Also in the Book of Daniel, His face is like lightning, His eyes like fire, and
His arms and feet in color like polished brass:
10:5 Then I lifted up mine eyes, and looked, and behold a certain man
clothed in linen, whose loins were girded with fine gold of Uphaz:  10:6 His
body also was like the beryl, and his face as the appearance of lightning,
and his eyes as lamps of fire, and his arms and  feet like in colour to
polished brass, and the voice of his words like the voice of a multitude.
In the Gospels we do not find Jesus claiming to be this presence of God,
nor do any of the authors of these Gospels allude to the passages cited.
There are references to a divine presence in the Gospels, but, as we will
presently see, they refer to Jesus as revealing himself as the divine Son of
God to his disciples and not as God Himself.
In the Book of Revelation of St. John that we find reiterations of these
depictions of the presence of God in the Torah and Neviim, associated with
the cosmic Jesus Christ who declares:  “I am Alpha and Omega” (1:8,
1:11, 21:6, 22:13).  Here are the characteristics associated in that Book with
Jesus:
1:13 And in the midst of the seven candlesticks one like unto the Son of
man, clothed with a garment down to the foot, and girt about the paps with
a golden girdle.  1:14 His head and his hairs were white like wool, as white as
snow; and his eyes were as a flame of fire;  1:15 And his feet like unto fine
brass, as if they burned in a furnace; and his voice as the sound of many
waters.  1:16 And he had in his right hand seven stars: and out of his mouth
went a sharp two-edged sword: and his countenance was as the sun
shineth in his strength.
2:18 These things saith the Son of God, who hath his eyes like unto a flame
of fire, and his feet are like fine brass

JESUS † The Complete Biography
19:11 And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and he that sat
upon him was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he doth judge
and make war.  19:12 His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were
many crowns; and he had a name written, that no man knew, but he himself.
19:13 And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood: and his name is
called The Word of God.  19:14 And the armies which were in heaven
followed him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean.  19:15
And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the
nations: and he shall rule them with a rod of iron: and he treadeth the
winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God.  19:16 And he hath
on his vesture and on his thigh a name written, King of Kings and Lord of
Lords.
The characteristics that are attributed by Moses and the lesser prophets to
the “presence” of God are found associated with the “Alpha and Omega”
that is, with the cosmic Jesus Christ, in the Revelation of St. John.  His hair
is white (Daniel 7:9), His eyes are as a flame of fire (Daniel 10:5), His feet
like brass (Daniel 10:6), His voice as the sound of many waters (Ezekiel
43:2; Daniel 10:6), His countenance like the sun (Daniel 10:5).  This is
remarkable,  as  the  gospel  writers  did  not  cite  any  of  these  passages,
traditionally associated with the presence of God rather than that of the
Son of man.
Another dimension of the cosmic reality who was called Jesus when he
appeared in the flesh is the revelation of the “true light”.  In the beginning
of the Gospel of John, the Word is associated with "the true Light", and
John (the Baptist) is identified as his herald while the Word is Jesus:
1:4 In him was life; and the life was the light of men.  1:5 And the light shineth
in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not.  1:6 There was a man
sent from God, whose name was John.  1:7 The same came for a witness, to
bear witness of the Light, that all men through him might believe.  1:8 He was
not that Light, but was sent to bear witness of that Light.  1:9 That was the
true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world.
Later in the same Gospel, Jesus says to his followers, confirming this
identification of himself with the divine light:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
12:46 I am come a light into the world, that whosoever believeth on
me should not abide in darkness.
This light imagery associated with the presence of God is found in the Book
of Isaiah:
60:1 Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord [u-kevod
YHWH] is risen upon thee.  60:2 For, behold, the darkness shall cover the
earth, and gross darkness the people: but the Lord shall arise upon thee,
and his glory [u-kevodo] shall be seen upon thee. 60:3 And the Gentiles
shall come to thy light, and kings to the brightness of thy rising.
60:19 The sun shall be no more thy light by day; neither for brightness shall
the moon give her light unto thee: but the Lord [YHWH] shall be unto thee
an everlasting light [le-or 'olam], and thy God thy glory [le-tifarTekh].
60:20 The sun shall no more go down; neither shall the moon withdraw
itself: for the Lord shall be thine everlasting light [le-or 'olam], and the
days of  thy mourning shall be ended.   60:21 Thy people shall be all
righteous: they shall inherit the land for ever, the branch of my planting,
the work of my hands, that I may be glorified.
Similar references to the light of God are found in the Revelation of St.
John:
21:11 Having the glory of God [doxhis kuriou] : and her light was like unto a
stone most precious, even like a jasper-stone, clear as crystal.
21:23 And the city [new Jerusalem] had no need of the sun, neither of the
moon, to shine in it: for the glory of God [doxa tou theou] did lighten it,
and the Lamb is the light thereof.  21:24 And the nations of them which are
saved shall walk in the light of it; and the kings of the earth do bring their
glory and honour into it.  21:25 And the gates of it shall not be shut at all by
day: for there shall be no night there.  21:26 And they shall bring the glory
and honour [tihn doxan kai tihn timihn] of the nations into it.  22:27 And
there  shall  in  no  wise  enter  into  it  any  thing  that  defileth,  neither

JESUS † The Complete Biography
whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie: but they which are
written in the Lamb's book of life.
22:5 And there shall be no night there: and they need no candle, neither
light of the sun; for the Lord God giveth them light: and they shall reign for
ever and ever.
This identification of the presence of God with the divine Light is also
found in some of the ex-canonical Christian literature:
46:22 It is I who am the light (that presides) over all.  46:23 It is I who am the
entirety: it is from me that the entirety has come, and to me that the
entirety goes.   46:24 Split a piece of wood: I am there.  46:25 Lift a stone,
and you will find me there.  (Gospel according to Thomas, 46:22-27; p. 394, The
Gnostic Scriptures, ed. Bentley Layton, 1987)
139:21 Where the light dwells is in the light…  139:24 Now the visible light has
shone for your sakes--not so that you might remain here, but so that you
might depart hence.  And when all the chosen lay down bestiality, then the
light will withdraw up to its essence, and its essence will receive it unto
itself, for it (the light) is a good assistant.  (Book of Thomas, 139:21,24-30; p.
404, Ibid.)
83:8 I am the intellectual spirit, filled with radiant light.  (Apocalypse of Peter,
83:8-10, Nag Hamadi Library 344; p. 13, The Gnostic Gospels, Elaine Pagels,
1981)
134:10 …a great light appeared, so that the mountain shone from the sight
of Him who had appeared.  And a voice called out to them saying, 'Listen…
I am Jesus Christ, who is with you forever.  (Letter of Peter to Philip, 134:10-
18, Bentley Layton, p. 395; p. 19,  Elaine Pagels, 1981)
91:8 …then there appeared to them the Redeemer, not in His original form
but in the invisible spirit.  But His appearance was the appearance of a
great angel of light.  (Wisdom of Jesus Christ, 91:8-13, Nag Hamadi Library
207-208; p. 19,  Elaine Pagels, 1981)

JESUS † The Complete Biography
All of these passages from the Jewish and Christian Scriptures point to a
cosmic manifestation of divine light, a presence of God, and the Gospel of
John depicts this presence as having assumed the human form, and to have
been the historical person named Jesus.  This is Jesus who came down from
heaven, Jesus who was the Spirit of God, Jesus who is Emmanuel, “God with
us”.  And this is where we must begin the story of Jesus.  For Jesus the
presence of God predates the creation of the world, how much moreso the
appearance of this presence in the body and personality of Jesus of Nazareth.
Before we leaving this topic, let us consider where it may have originated.  As
we have seen, most of the references to this cosmological view of the Christ
are from the Gospel of John, with some from the Apocalpse of John, and a
few others from non-canonical literature which has classically been called
“Gnostic” by Biblical scholars.  Who was teaching such ideas at the time of
Jesus?
Much ink has been spilled on whether the writings of Philo Judaeus1 (20
BCE-50CE) influenced the Gospel of John, the church fathers, or whether
similar ideas came from a common source, albeit one that has yet to be
discovered.   Let  us  examine  Philo’s  ideas  and  compare  them  with  the
passages cited above:
"And the Father who created the universe has given to his archangelic
and most ancient Word a pre-eminent gift, to stand on the confines of
both, and separated that which had been created from the Creator.
“And this same Word is continually a suppliant to the immortal God on
behalf of the mortal race, which is exposed to affliction and misery; and is
also the ambassador, sent by the Ruler of all, to the subject race.
“And the Word rejoices in the gift, and, exulting in it, announces it and
boasts of it, saying, 'And I stood in the midst, between the Lord and You;
neither being uncreated as God, nor yet created as you, but being in the
midst  between  these  two  extremities  ...  For  I  will  proclaim  peaceful
intelligence to the creation from him who has determined to destroy
wars, namely God, who is ever the guardian of peace.' "  (Philo, Who is
the Heir of Divine Things? 42.205-6)2
And the father who created the universe has given to his archangel and
most ancient Logos a pre-eminent gift, to stand on the confines of both,
and separate that which had been created from the Creator. And this
same Logos is continually a suppliant to the immortal God on behalf of
the mortal race, which is exposed to affliction and misery; and is also the
ambassador, sent by the Ruler of all, to the subject race. And the Logos
rejoices…. saying “And I stood in the midst, between the Lord and you”
(Num. 16:48); neither being uncreated as God, nor yet created as you, but
being in the midst between these two extremities, like a hostage, as it
were, to both parties (Philo, Her. 205-206).3

JESUS † The Complete Biography
"And even if there be not as yet any one who is worthy to be called a son
of God, nevertheless let him labour earnestly to be adorned according to
his first-born word, the eldest of his angels, as the great archangel of
many names; for he is called, the authority, and the name of God, and the
Word, and man according to God's image, and he who sees Israel."
(Philo, "On the Confusion of Tongues," (146)4
“For the Father of the universe has caused him to spring up as the eldest
son, whom, in another passage, he [Moses] calls the first-born; and he
who is thus born, imitating the ways of his father, has formed such and
such species, looking to his archetypal patterns” (Philo, Conf. 63)5
Philo  describes  the  Logos  as  the  revealer  of  God  symbolized  in  the
Scripture (Gen. 31:13; 16:8; etc) by an angel of the Lord (Philo,  Somn.
1.228-239; Cher. 1-3). The Logos is the first-born and the eldest and chief
of the angels.6
Philo’s Logos has many names (Philo,  Conf. 146).  Philo identifies his
Logos with Wisdom of Proverbs 8:22 (Philo,  Ebr. 31). Moreover, Moses,
according to Philo called this Wisdom “Beginning,” “Image,” “Sight of
God.” And his personal wisdom is an imitation of the archetypal Divine
Wisdom.  All  terrestrial  wisdom  and  virtue  are  but  copies  and
representations of the heavenly Logos (Philo, LA 1.43, 45-46).7
Manna is described by Philo as a “generic thing” coming from God. It does
not come from God directly, however: “the most generic is God, and next is
the Logos of God, the other things subsist in word (Logos) only” (LA 2.86).
According to Philo, Moses called manna “the most ancient Logos of God
(Det. 118).” Next Philo explains that men are “nourished by the whole word
(Logos) of God, and by every portion of it … Accordingly, the soul of the
more perfect man is nourished by the whole word (Logos); but we must be
contented if we are nourished by a portion of it” (LA 3.175-176). And “the
Wisdom of God, which is the nurse and foster-mother and educator of
those who desire incorruptible food … immediately supplies food to those
which are brought forth by her … but the fountain of divine wisdom is
borne along, at one time in a more gentle and moderate stream, and at
another  with  greater  rapidity  and  a  more  exceeding  violence  and
impetuosity….(Det. 115-117).8
In three passages Philo describes the Logos even as God: a) Commenting
on Genesis 22:16 Philo explains that God could only swear by himself (LA
3.207). b) When the scripture uses the Greek term for God  ho theos, it
refers to the true God, but when it uses the term theos, without the article
ho, it refers not to the God, but to his most ancient Logos (Somn. 1.229-
230). c) Commenting on Genesis 9:6 Philo states the reference to creation
of man after the image of God is to the second deity, the Divine Logos of
the Supreme being and to the father himself, because it is only fitting that

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the rational soul of man cannot be in relation to the preeminent and
transcendent Divinity (QG 2.62).  Philo himself, however, explains that to
call  the  Logos  “God”  is  not  a  correct  appellation  (Somn.1.230).  Also,
through this Logos, which men share with God, men know God and are
able to perceive Him (LA 1.37-38).9
That early Christian writers were familiar with these ideas apart from their
presence in the Gospel of John is attested here:
"I  shall  give  you  another  testimony,  my  friends,"  said  I,  "from  the
Scriptures, that God begat before all creatures a Beginning, a certain
rational power from Himself, who is called by the Holy Spirit, now the
Glory of the Lord, now the Son, again Wisdom, again an Angel, then God,
and then Lord and Logos."   (Justin Martyr, Dialogue with Trypho, LXI –
("Wisdom is begotten of the father, as fire from fire.")10
That the use of “Word” to denote the “manifestation” of God who is the active
agent in the creation of all things had an existence in Jewish literature and
thnking is further attested:
In the Septuagint version of the Old Testament the term logos (Hebrew
davar) was used frequently to describe God’s utterances (Gen. 1:3, 6,9;
3:9,11; Ps. 32:9), God’s action (Zech. 5:1-4; Ps. 106:20; Ps. 147:15), and
messages of prophets by means of which God communicated his will to his
people (Jer. 1:4-19, 2:1-7; Ezek. 1:3; Amos 3:1).11
In  the  Aramaic Targums  of the  Bible,  the  name  of God,  YHWH  was
replaced with Memer, or ma'amar, Strong's 3982 and 3983, an Aramaic
word meaning: word, command, appointment.  It comes from the Aramaic
[‘imrah],  Strong's  565,  'imrah,  or  'emrah  (em'-raw).  It  means
commandment, speech, or word. It is the equivalent of logos (λογος),
Strong's 3056, in the Greek.
When the Jews (the houses of Judah and Benjamin) returned to Jerusalem
from Babylonian and Persian captivity, they began to read the law. Ezra,
the scribe, and several other scribes began to teach the people the law.
They set the text in order so that it could be read and understood and make
sense to the people. Those scribes are named in Nehemiah 8:6-7, "And
Ezra blessed the LORD, the great God. And all the people answered, Amen,
Amen,  with  lifting  up  their  hands:  and  they  bowed  their  heads,  and
worshipped the LORD with their faces to the ground. Also Jeshua, and
Bani,  and  Sherebiah,  Jamin,  Akkub,  Shabbethai,  Hodijah,  Maaseiah,
Kelita,  Azariah,  Jozabad,  Hanan,  Pelaiah,  and  the  Levites,  caused  the
people to understand the law: and the people stood in their place." These
scribes, or sopherim…preferred, out reverence for His Ineffable Name, not
to express the Name of God, Yehovah. They preferred not to speak it, or
write it. Therefore they substituted Adonai, or LORD in many instances

JESUS † The Complete Biography
where the word Yehovah occurred. My source for this information is Dr.
E.W. Bullinger,who wrote, "Out of extreme(but mistaken)reverence for the
Ineffable  Name  "Jehovah",  the  ancient  custodians  of  the  Sacred  Text
substituted in many places "Adonai" (see Ap. 4. viii. 2). These, in the A.V.
and R.V., are all printed "Lord". In all these places we have printed it
"LORD*", marking the word with an asterisk in addition to the note in the
margin, to inform the reader of the fact."  According to Bullinger, there
were 134 substitutions: "The official list given in the Massorah (§§ 107-15,
Ginsburg's edition) contains the 134."
They also changed the word God (elohim) into Adonai in several places
where it was obvious that the text was speaking of Yehovah.  For the very
same reason, that God's Holy name was unspeakable, the Targums, which
are the Aramaic translations of the Old Testament, changed all instances
where God appeared in person to man. They changed the word Yehovah or
Yehovah Elohim, in those cases, to the 'Word' or the memra.12
These references, and, in particular the similarities between the theology
set forth in the Gospel of John and the writings of Philo Judaeus, as well as
the fact that these similarities are in no instance replicated in the synoptic
Gospels or other early New Testament texts, suggest that the editor, ghost
writer or author of the Gospel of John would have been familiar with
Philo’s writings, as well as with the Scriptures of Judaism in Greek.  Is
there any reference to a contemporary Jew who could have had such
knowledge?  Indeed there is.  Philo Judaeus hailed from Alexandria, where
he was regarded as one of the elders of the Jewish community, and was
chosen  to  represent  that  community  in  a  delegation  to  the  Emperor
Caligula in Rome in 40 CE13.  The Acts of the Apostles (18:24-28) refer to
“a certain Jew named Apollos, born at Alexandria, an eloquent man, and
mighty in the scriptures” who preached in Ephesus (and Corinth), in Asia
Minor, and there met Aquila and Priscilla, evangelical associates of Paul.
It appears that Apollos was a follower of John the Baptist (see Acts 18:24-
25) when he arrived in Ephesus, and to have been informed about Jesus by
Aquila and Priscilla.  Thenceforth, Paul refers to Apollos as an evangelical
peer, in two of his epistles, in First Epistle to the Corinthians (1:12, 3:5-6,
4:6) and in Epistle to Titus (3:13).  Of all the Christian teachers of that
generation, including those who were eye-witnesses to the life of Jesus and
those who encountered Jesus in visions and dreams after his resurrection,
Apollos is the most likely to have had access to the writings and hence to
the teachings of Philo Judaeus. Furthermore, he is attested to have been
“mighty in the scriptures”.  What more apt editor or ghost writer can be
surmised than Apollos, for a Gospel based upon the testimonies of an
unidentified  “beloved  disciple”  of  Jesus,  incorporating  metaphysical
doctrines and language not found in the synoptic Gospels but found in the
writings of the Alexandria Jew, Philo Judaeus, and which ends with Jesus’
promise that he this “beloved disciple” will “tarry till I come”?  We know
that the “beloved disciple” was not the final editor of the Gospel of John,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
because it ends in the third person: “This is the disciple which testifieth of
these things, and wrote these things: and we know that his testimony is
true.”
Prophecies
There are hundreds of prophecies found in the words of the patriarchs, of
Moses, and of the Hebrew prophets that have been acclaimed by Christian
apologists as fulfilled by Jesus.  There are dozens cited by the writers of the
canonical Gospels.  And then there are the few that are actually cited by
Jesus himself in his discourses.  Here we will study these few.
Did Jesus indicate that he fulfilled prophecies at all?  In the Gospel of
Matthew (13:17), Jesus is reported to have said: "That many prophets and
righteous men have desired to see those things which ye see, and have not
seen them; and to hear those things which ye hear, and have not heard
them."  This verse is susceptible of at least two interpretations: it may
indicate that prophets and righteous men have been endowed with foresight,
and have thus wished to see and hear Jesus; it may affirm that prophets and
righteous men would have wished to see and hear Jesus, but are unable to do
so because they died prior to his advent--both meanings are possible, and
perhaps both are intended.  When He is arrested, Jesus indicates that He
could save Himself "But how then shall the scriptures be fulfilled, that thus it
must be?" (26:54)  The author of the Gospel of Matthew states that "all this
was done, that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled." (26:56)
This recalls his statement, included in the famous sermon on the mount
(5:17): "Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets: I am
not come to destroy, but to fulfil."  Jesus comes to fulfill prophecy, not to
destroy faith in the Prophets.  Likewise, Jesus comes to spiritualize the law,
not to destroy the divine commandments.  He continues, in the same sermon
(5:19-20):
"Whosoever  therefore  shall  break  one  of  these  least
commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the
kingdom of heaven: but whosoever shall do and teach them, the same shall
be called great in the kingdom of heaven.  For I say unto you, That except
your  righteousness  shall  exceed  the  righteousness  of  the  scribes14 and
Pharisees15, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven."  In the
Gospel of Mark (14:49), Jesus is reported to have said at His arrest: "I was
daily with you in the temple teaching, and ye took me not: but the scriptures
must be fulfilled."  In the Gospel of Luke (24:27), Jesus is reported to have
spoken of the prophecies of his own advent after his own resurrection: "And
beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the
scriptures the things concerning himself...And he said unto them, These are
the words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that all things
must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and in the
prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me."  In the Gospel of John (1:45) it
is written:  "We have found him, of whom Moses in  the law,  and the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
prophets, did write, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph."  Inasmuch as
none of the Gospel authors have preserved any of references made by Jesus
to specific prophecies "in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the
psalms" we can only guess.  In the Gospel of Luke, Jesus tells a story about a
conversation between a rich man in hell and Abraham in heaven, in which
the rich man asks Abraham to send a special messenger to his five brethren;
Jesus continues (16:29-31): "Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses and
the prophets; let them hear them.  And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if
one went unto them from the dead, they will repent. And he said unto him, If
they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded,
though one rose from the dead."  This refers as much to prophecies as to
laws, for it indicates that the counsel of God is sufficient, in any age, to guide
souls to holy conduct--if they will only listen, and obey.  In the Gospel of John
(5:39,45-47), Jesus refers in general fashion to his fulfillment of prophecies in
the Hebrew Scriptures: "Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have
eternal life: and they are they which testify of me...Do not think that I will
accuse you to the Father: there is one that accuseth you, even Moses, in
whom ye trust.  For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me: for
he wrote of me.  But if ye believe not his writings, how shall ye believe my
words?"
To reiterate, many Christian apologists have claimed that Jesus fulfills many
prophecies and other scriptural references found in the Tanakh.  The reader
is directed to them, as an evaluation of every one of these verses would fill an
entire volume in itself.  We will continue to consider what he said about
himself.
As for the specific prophecies he is reported to have cited in support of his
own claims, we will consider them in the order of their appearance in the
Gospels, beginning with the Gospel of Matthew.
(1)First, in the Gospel of Matthew (16:21, 17:22-23, 20:18-19), Jesus said that
he must fulfill certain conditions, including his persecution by the Jewish
elders, his martyrdom, and his resurrection after three days.  This same is
found in the Gospel of Mark (8:31; 9:12; 9:31; 10:33-34; 15:1,16); Luke
(9:22,44; 17:25; 18:31-33; 23:1; 24:6,7); John (18:28).  It is not clear in the
text of any of these Gospels whether or not these conditions were spelled out
in the Hebrew Scriptures, whether they were found in some other traditional
source,  or  whether  they  were  simply  conditions  which  he  spoke  of  in
connection  with  his  ministry,  prophecies  of  his  own  fate  rather  than
fulfillments of the prophecies of earlier Prophets.  In the Gospel of Matthew
(12:38), Jesus is asked to give a "sign" of his station.  He replies (12:39-40)
making reference to his resurrection after three days, and comparing it to the
three days and nights which the prophet Jonas (Jonah 1:17) spent  "in the
bowels of the fish".  Later in the same Gospel (16:4), Jesus refers to the same
"sign".  After his death, according to the Gospel of Matthew (27:63), a group
of priests and Pharisees, recalling Jesus' prophecy that he would rise after the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
third day of his entombment, asked that his tomb be sealed and that a guard
be posted (27:64), and Pilate did as they requested (27:65-66).  In the Gospel
of Luke (11:29-32), Jesus states that "This is an evil generation: they seek a
sign; and there shall no sign be given it, but the sign of Jonas the prophet."
However, in in this case,  "the sign of Jonas" seems to have an entirely
different significance.  He says (11:30) that "as Jonas was a sign unto the
Ninevites, so shall also the Son of man be to this generation."  It was not
anything that Jonas did which was a sign, as in the Gospel of Matthew, but
rather Jonas himself is a sign of God to the Ninevites.  Consequently (11:32),
"The men of Nineve shall rise up in the judgment with this generation, and
shall condemn it: for they repented at the preaching of Jonas; and, behold, a
greater than Jonas is here."
(2)Second, in the Gospel of Matthew (11:3-6), two of the disciples of John
encounter Jesus and ask him "Art thou he that should come, or do we look for
another?" (11:3)  To this question Jesus replied "Go and show John again
those things which ye do hear and see:  The blind receive their sight, and the
lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised
up, and the poor have the gospel preached to them.  And blessed is he,
whosoever shall not be offended in me."  (11:4-6)  Jesus knew that John
would  recognize  his  Messianic  station  from  these  signs.   Would  John
recognize this by his knowledge of prophecy, or by his divinely-endowed
direct knowledge?  There were Scriptural prophecies which these actions
would have fulfilled: a)"the blind shall receive their sight" fulfills Isaiah
(29:18; 35:5); b)"the lame walk" fulfills Isaiah (35:6); c)"the lepers are
cleansed" does not seem to have been specifically predicted by any prophet--
however, Moses (Num 12:13-14) and Elijah (2 Kings 5:8-14) ask the Lord to
effect the miraculous cure of leprosy, and, in both cases, cures are effected;
d)"the deaf hear" fulfill Isaiah (29:18; 35:5); e)"the dead are raised up" was
also not predicted by any prophet, but Elijah (1 Kings 17:21-22) prayed to the
Lord to revive a widow's son and her son was brought back to life; and
contact with Elisha's bones, after this prophet had died, caused a man to be
resurrected from the dead (2 Kings 13:21)--hence, this is one of the signs of
the Prophet of God; f)"the poor have the gospel preached to them" fulfills
Isaiah (61:1). g)"Blessed is he, whosoever shall not be offended in me" recalls
Isaiah (8:14-15), for it alludes to the fact that "he shall be for a sanctuary"--
hence, "blessed is he"--"but for a stone of stumbling and for a rock of offence
to both the houses of Israel" and hence "many among them shall stumble,
and fall, and be broken, and be snared, and be taken" which is fulfilled by
the reception of Jesus by the Jewish people of Palestine, and his comment in
the Gospel of Matthew that "for many be called, but few chosen" (20:16) and
"many are called, but few are chosen" (22:14).  This same anecdote is
reported in the Gospel of Luke (7:19-23), where it is indicated that John
actually sent these two disciples to Jesus, as his emissaries.  The author of
this Gospel also follows this story (7:26-27) with that reported here in IV.(3).

JESUS † The Complete Biography
(3)Third, while John may well have been acquainted, as were many other
Jews of his time and of all times, with the Scriptural verses which must be
fulfilled by the promised Messiah, even more significant is Jesus' statement
regarding the station of John (11:9-10; also Luke 7:26-27): "But what went ye
out for to see?  A prophet?  yea, I say unto you, and more than a prophet.
For this is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy
face, which shall prepare thy way before thee."  It is evident that Jesus is
quoting Malachi (3:1): "Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall
prepare the way before me: and the Lord, whom ye seek, shall suddenly
come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant; behold, he shall
come, said the Lord of hosts."  In identifying John as "my messenger" and
that "he shall prepare the way before me" Jesus is also clearly indicating that
he is "the Lord, whom ye seek" and that he is also "the messenger of the
covenant".  In the Gospel of Mark (1:2) we find this same citation from the
prophet Malachi (3:1), "As it is written in the prophets, Behold, I send my
messenger  before  thy  face,  which  shall  prepare  thy  way  before  thee"
followed by a citation from the prophet Isaiah (40:3).  In the Gospel of Luke
(1:17), an angel announced to Zacharias the birth of his son John, indicating
that he is "to make ready a people prepared for the Lord"; this may be a
reference to this same verse of the prophet Malachi.  It may refer also to the
verse of the prophet Isaiah (40:3).  These citations are further discussed in V.
(6), inasmuch as they are related by Gospel authors but not attributed to
Jesus.
(4)Fourth, in the Gospel of Matthew (11:14), Jesus describes John in another
manner, explaining "And if ye will receive it, this is Elias, which was for to
come."  In a later chapter of the same Gospel (17:11-12), Jesus says "Elias
truly shall first come, and restore all things.  But I say unto you, That Elias
is come already, and they knew him not, but have done unto him whasoever
they listed."   In the Gospel of Mark (9:11-13), we find the same story, but only
in the Gospel of Matthew (17:13) does the author report that "Then the
disciples understood that he spake unto them of John the Baptist."  In the
Gospel of Luke (1:17), it is not Jesus but an angel speaking to Zacharias and
announcing the birth of his son John, who says "he shall go before him in the
spirit and power of Elias..."   As in the citation regarding the "messenger"
who must preceed the "Lord," these references point to a prophetic verse in
the book of the prophet Malachi (4:5): "Behold, I will send you Elijah the
prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord."  In the
Gospel of Matthew, Jesus punctuates this claim with these words (11:15), "He
hath hath ears to hear, let him hear" which recalls Isaiah (29:18; 35:5).
Hence, Jesus also alludes to his advent signalling "the great and dreadful
day of the Lord".
(5)Fifth, Jesus indicates that the spiritual blindness and deafness of most of
His generation is in fulfillment of Isaiah (6:9; recalling other verses cited
above), indicating that "this people's heart is waxed gross, and their ears are
dull of hearing, and their eyes they have closed" (13:13-15).

JESUS † The Complete Biography
(6)Sixth, Jesus calls the scribes and Pharisees "hypocrites" and says "well did
Esaias prophesy of you, saying, This people draweth nigh unto me with
their mouth, and honoureth me with their lips; but their heart is far from
me.  But  in  vain  they  do  worship  me,  teaching  for  doctrines  the
commandments of men." (15:7-9)  We find the same statement of Jesus in
the Gospel of Mark (7:6-6-7).  In doing so, Jesus is citing Isaiah (29:13-14),
which reads as follows: "Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their
mouth, and with their lips do honour me, but have removed their heart far
from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men:
Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvellous work among this
people, even a marvellous work and a wonder: for the wisdom of their wise
men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid."
(7)Seventh, Jesus cites a prophecy when confronted by angry priests and
scribes in the Temple, who disapproved of his favoring children, the blind
and the lame (21:14-15): "have ye never read, Out of the mouth of babes and
sucklings thou has perfected praise?"  This may be a citation from Psalms
(8:2): "Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast thou ordained strength
because  of  thine  enemies,  that  thou  mightest  still  the  enemy  and  the
avenger."  However, it may represent another text which has yet to be
identified.
(8)Eighth, Jesus says to the priests and elders in the Temple, "Did ye never
read in the scriptures, The stone which the builders rejected, the same is
become the head of the corner: this is the Lord's doing, and it is marvellous
in our eyes?" (21:42)  This same citation is attributed to Jesus in the Gospel
of Mark (12:10-11), and the Gospel of Luke (20:17).  The citation is a direct
and exact quote from Psalms (118:22-23): "The stone which the builders
refused is become the head stone of the corner.  This is the Lord's doing; it is
marvellous in our eyes."
(9)Ninth, Jesus asks the Pharisees whose son the Messiah is, to which they
answer that Messiah is the son of David; to which he asks why, if Messiah is
his son, David refers to Messiah as "Lord" (22:41), citing from Psalms (110:1):
"The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand, until I make thine
enemies thy footstool."  This same citation is noted in the Gospel of Mark
(12:35-37).   While  many  among  the  Jewish  populace,  according  to  the
testimony of the Gospels, have identified Jesus as the son of David, he does
not seem to have payed much attention to this designation.  Many of the
prophecies he claimed to fulfill make no reference to the promised Messiah,
son of David.
(10)Tenth, at the last supper, on the first day of Passover, Jesus said "The Son
of man goeth as it is written of him: but woe unto that man by whom the
Son of man is betrayed! it had been good for that man if he had not been
born." (26:24)  An almost identical story is found in the Gospel of Mark

JESUS † The Complete Biography
(14:21) and the Gospel of Luke (22:22).  In the first part of this statement,
Jesus makes reference to a prophecy.  This may be a reference to that
prophecy which has been described in III.(1).  The entirety of the fifty-third
chapter of Isaiah seems to be fulfilled by Jesus, and he may have been making
reference to this chapter here.  However, there is another prophecy which is
much more specific, in the book of the prophet Daniel.  Daniel writes (9:25-
26):  "Know therefore and understand, that from the going forth of the
commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah the
Prince shall be seven weeks, and threescore and two weeks: the street shall
be built again, and the wall, even in troublous times.  And after threescore
and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, but not for himself: and the people
of the prince that shall come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary; and
the end thereof shall be with a flood, and unto the end of the war desolations
are determined.  And he shall confirm the covenant with many for one
week: and in the midst of the week he shall cause the sacrifice and the
oblation to cease, and for the overspreading of abominations he shall make
it desolate, even until the consummation, and that determined shall be
poured upon the desolate."  Many commentators indicate that these verses
predict the time of the advent, and the time of the martyrdom of the Messiah,
as well as the ceasing of the sacrifice and the oblation at the Temple, and the
abomination and desolation of the Temple.  According to this prophecy, the
Messiah was to be cut off (killed), then another people was to destroy the city
and sanctuary of Jerusalem, and the end of the war was to be desolation.
Jesus was martyred c. 33 C.E., the Roman legions destroyed the city and
sanctuary of Jerusalem c. 70 C.E., and at the end of its war with the Jewish
Zealots16, thousands of Judaeans, Galileans and other Israelites had been
killed, villages destroyed, a nation uprooted.  When Jews in the diaspora
rebelled against the Roman government c. 115-117 C.E., they were ruthlessly
suppressed, in Cyprus and Egypt.  Shim'on bar Kochba led another revolt, in
c. 132-135 C.E., and once more the Jewish forces were vanquished by the
Roman legions.  This time, the Emperor Hadrian rebuilt Jerusalem as a
pagan  city,  prohibited  Jews  from  coming  near  this  new  city,  forbade
circumcision, the observance of the Sabbath, the meeting of the elders, and
study and teaching of the Torah.  A more literal fulfillment of the prophetic
verses of Daniel is hard to imagine.
(11)Eleventh, at the last supper Jesus cited another prophecy, "All ye shall be
offended because of me this night: for it is written, I will smite the shepherd,
and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered abroad." (26:31)  This same
verse is found in the Gospel of Mark (14:27).  This is a clear reference to
Zechariah (13:7): "Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, and against the
man that is my fellow, saith the Lord of hosts: smite the shepherd, and the
sheep shall be scattered: and I will turn mine hand upon the little ones.  And
it shall come to pass, that in all the land, saith the Lord, two parts therein
shall be cut off and die; but the third shall be left therein."  This seems to
apply to the immediate followers of Jesus--that after his martyrdom, two
thirds would fall away, and only one third would remain firm in their faith.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
When Peter states that he will never backslide (26:33,35), Jesus assures Peter
that he will deny his Lord three times on that very night, before the cock
crows  at  daybreak  (26:34);  and  this  prophecy  is  fulfilled  (26:69-75),
demonstrating that no one knows what his own end will be, no one but God
and whomsoever He informs.
(12)Twelfth, when arrested, Jesus orders one of his disciples, who has taken
up a sword to protect him, to cease and desist (26:51-53), indicating that he
can call down divine protection, "But how then shall the scriptures be
fulfilled, that thus it must be?"  This seems to be a reference to the prophecies
in the books of Isaiah and Daniel, cited earlier.
(13)Thirteenth, in the Gospel of Luke (4:17-21), it is reported that Jesus
entered a synagogue, read a passage from the book of Isaiah, "The Spirit of
the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to
the poor; he hath sent me to heal the broken-hearted, to preach deliverance
to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them
that are bruised, To preach the acceptable year of the Lord" (4:18-19) and
that He then stated to the assembled, "This day is this scripture fulfilled in
your ears."  The passage cited is indeed from the book of Isaiah (61:1-2): "The
Spirit of the Lord is upon me; because the Lord hath anointed me to preach
good tidings unto the meek; he hath sent me to bind up the brokenhearted,
to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to them
that are bound; To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord, and the day of
vengeance  of  our  God;  to  comfort  all  that  mourn".   The  expression
"acceptable year of the Lord" refers to the jubilee year, the fiftieth year,
described  in  the  book  of  Leviticus  (25:10-15),  which  proclaims  "liberty
throughout all the land" (Lev 25:10).  In the book of Jeremiah reference is
made to "a covenant with all the people which were at Jerusalem, to
proclaim liberty unto them" (34:8) which is related to the "covenant" which
the Lord made "with your fathers in the day that I brought them forth out of
the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage" (34:13), which "covenant"
this generation renewed "before me in the house which is called by my
name" (34:15) but which was violated, when they "caused every man his
servant, and every man his handmaid, whom he had set at liberty at their
pleasure,  to  return,  and  brought  them  into  subjection..."   Hence,  this
"covenant" of the jubilee year was renewed by the prophet Jeremiah.  The
"day of the vengeance of our God" is also found in two other chapters and
verses of the book of Isaiah (34:8): "For it is the day of the Lord's vengeance,
and the year of recompences for the controversy of Zion"; and (63:4): "For
the day of vengeance is in mine heart, and the year of my redeemed is
come."  This "day" is also called "the great and dreadful day of the Lord"
(Malachi 4:5); "the great and terrible day of the Lord" (Joel 2:31); "the day
of the Lord" (Amos 5:18; Obadiah 15; Zechariah 14:1); "the great day of the
Lord" (Zephaniah 1:14); "the day of the Lord's wrath" (Zephaniah 1:18); "the
day of the Lord's anger" (Zephaniah 2:2).

JESUS † The Complete Biography
(14)Fourteenth,  in  the  Gospel  of  Luke  (10:1),  it  is  reported  that  Jesus
appointed seventy apostles, and that they returned to him, saying (10:17),
"Lord, even the devils are subject unto us through thy name."  Jesus replied
to them with what seems to be a verse from the Hebrew Scriptures (10:18): "I
beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven."  He then continued, saying
(10:19), "Behold, I give unto you power to tread on serpents and scorpions,
and over all the power of the enemy: and nothing shall by any means hurt
you."  This seems to be a reference to Isaiah (14:12): "How art thou fallen
from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning! how art thou cut down to the
ground, which didst weaken the nations!"  In the book of Isaiah, this is
addressed to "the king of Babylon" (14:4), and it continues as follows (14:13-
15): "For thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt
my throne above the stars of God: I will sit also upon the mount of the
congregation, in the sides of the north: I will ascend above the heights of the
clouds; I will be like the most High.  Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell,
to the sides of the pit."  If Jesus refers to this verse, then it seems that he
points to worldly powers rather than supernatural spirits.  If he does not refer
to this verse, then it is not found among the canonical Hebrew Scriptures.  In
the Gospel of John, "the prince of this world" (12:31; 16:11) may be the same
as "Satan" in the Gospel of Luke.  In the Gospel of John, "now shall the
prince of this world be cast out" (12:31), and "the prince of this world is
judged" (16:11).
(15)Fifteenth, in the Gospel of Luke (12:49-50), Jesus states the purpose of
his coming: "I am come to send fire on the earth; and what will I, if it be
already kindled?  but I have a baptism to be baptized with; and how am I
straitened till it be accomplished!"  He seems to be refering to his fulfillment
of the prophecies of John, his predecessor, discussed in III.(1).  But, as we
have noted earlier, the prophecies of John seem to have referred to signs of
the Messianic advent in the Hebrew Scriptures.  Please refer to III.(1) for the
specific references in those Scriptures.  Jesus continues (12:51-52) with:
"Suppose ye that I am come to give peace on earth?  I tell you, Nay; but
rather division:  For from henceforth there shall be five in one house
divided, three against two, and two against three.  The father shall be
divided against the son, and the son against the father; the mother against
the daughter, and the daughter against the mother; the mother in law
against her daughter in law, and the daughter in law against her mother in
law."  This most likely refers to the book of the prophet Micah (7:6): "For the
son dishonoureth the father, the daughter riseth up against her mother, the
daughter in law against her mother in law; a man's enemies are the men of
his own house."  That Jesus taught his disciples that his message would
inevitably cause division is reported also in the Gospel of Matthew (10:21,35)
and the Gospel of Luke (21:16).  In the Gospel of John (7:43; 9:16; 10:19),
three instances are reported, in which it is said that Jesus caused division
among his associates.  Many other divisive incidents could be found in the
Gospels.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
(16)Sixteenth,  in  the  Gospel  of  Luke  (18:31),  Jesus  said  to  the  twelve
disciples: "Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by
the prophets concerning the Son of man shall be accomplished."  There are
many prophecies in the Hebrew Scriptures to which he may have been
making reference here.  Among them are, perhaps, those found in the twenty-
second Psalm, and the fifty-third chapter of the book of Isaiah.
(17)Seventeeth, as we have read earlier, in the Gospel of John (5:46) Jesus
says: "For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me: for he wrote
of me."  Where in the Torah is there a verse which could have been fulfilled by
Jesus?  Perhaps it is the following, from the Book of Deuteronomy/Sefer
Devarim17:
The Lord thy God will raise up unto thee a Prophet from the midst of thee,
of thy brethren, like unto me; unto him ye shall hearken…
I will raise them up a Prophet from among their brethren, like unto thee,
and will put my words in his mouth; and he shall speak unto them all that I
shall command him.
And it shall come to pass, that whosoever will not hearken unto my words
which he shall speak in my name, I will require it of him.  But the prophet,
which shall presume to speak a word in my name, which I have not command
him to speak, or that shall speak in the name of other gods, even that
prophet shall die.  And if thou say in thine heart, How shall we know the
word which the Lord hath not spoken?  When a prophet speaketh in the
name of the Lord, if the thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is the thing
which  the  Lord  hath  not  spoken,  but  the  prophet  hath  spoken  it
presumptuously: thou shalt not be afraid of him.
Annunciations
In the Jewish Bible there are annunciations of births, those of Isaac, of Jacob,
of Samson, and, in the New Testament the annunciation of the birth of John.
There are five birth announcements associated with the biography of Jesus:
the annunciation of the birth of his mother Mary to Anna and Joachim; the
annunciation of the birth of John to Elizabeth and Zechariah; and the
annunciation to Joseph of the birth of Jesus, the annunciation to Mary of that
same birth, and the annunciation of his birth to the shepherds in the field.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The first birth announcement is to Ioacim (Joachim), the father of Mary, and
husband of Anna, according to the Protoevangelium of James (4:1-3)18:
4:1 And behold an  angel of the Lord appeared, saying unto her:  Anna,
Anna, the Lord hath hearkened unto thy prayer, and thou shalt conceive
and bear, and thy seed shall be spoken of in the whole world. And Anna
said: As the Lord my God liveth, if I bring forth either male or female, I will
bring it for a gift unto the Lord my God, and it shall be ministering unto him
all the days of its life.  4:2 And behold there came two messengers saying
unto her: Behold Ioacim thy husband cometh with his flocks: for an angel
of the Lord came down unto him saying: Ioacim, Ioacim, the Lord God hath
hearkened unto thy prayer. Get thee down hence, for behold thy wife
Anna  hath  conceived.  4:3  And  Ioacim  sat  him  down  and  called  his
herdsmen saying:  Bring me hither ten lambs without blemish and without
spot, and they shall be for the Lord my God; and bring me twelve tender
calves, and they shall be for the priests and for the assembly of the elders;
and an hundred kids for the whole people.
This story attributes the Hebrew name Hannah (meaning “favored grace”)  to
the mother of Mary, whose Hebrew name is Miryam (meaning “strong sea”
or “star of the sea”).  The Biblical Hannah is the mother of the prophet
Samuel  (Shmuel),  and  according  to  the  First  Book  of  Kings  (1:1-2:21),
Hannah was baren and gave birth to Samuel in response to prayer.  This birth
was then miraculous.  The same is reported of the birth of Mary in this non-
canonical gospel.   The father of Mary is depicted here as Ioacim, whose
Hebrew name is Yehoyakem (meaning “YHWH will establish”), and who is
found in the Bible in several verses, a Jehoiakim.  In the First Book of
Chronicles, Jehoiakim is listed as a descendant of king Solomon (3:10-14), his
father is called Josias (3:15) and one of his sons is named Jeconiah (3:16).   In
the Second Book of Chronicles, one named Eliakim is described as the
brother of Jehoahaz (36:4), and one of the sons of Josias (36:1), and it is
indicated that by order of the king of Egypt his brother is dethroned (36:3),
he is made king over Judaea and Jerusalem (36:4), and renamed Jehoiakim
(36:4).  The son of king Jehoiakim is named Jehoiachin (36:8), and is
replaced by order of Nebuchadnezzar by his brother Zedekiah (36:10) after
reigning for only three months and ten days.  The Fourth Book of Kings tells
the same story—that the king of Egypt appointed Eliakim king of Judaea after
his father Josiah (23:34), that he was renamed Jehoiakim (23:34), and that
he took away his brother Jehoahaz (23:34).  When Jehoiakim died, he was
succeeded by his son Jehoiachin (24:6), but after three months his son was
taken captive to Babylon by order of Nebuchadnezzar and replaced with
Mattaniah, his paternal uncle, who was renamed Zedekiah (24:17).  The Book

JESUS † The Complete Biography
of Daniel begins during the reign of Jehoiakim (1:1), when Nebuchadnezzar is
laying siege to Jerusalem.  The Book of Jeremiah claims to have been
revealed to start with during the reign of king Jehoiakim, and ending in the
eleventh year of the rein of king Zedekiah, both of whom are called the sons
of Josiah (1:3).  This would seem to corroborate the account in the Fourth
Book of Kings, that Zedekiah was the son of Josias and uncle of Jehoiachin
and not the latter’s brother, as indicated in the Second Book of Chronicles.
By far the greatest number of Biblical references to Jehoiakim are found in
the Book of Jeremiah, where he is called the son of Josiah (1:3, 22:18, 25:1,
26:1, 27:1, 35:1, 36:1, 36:9, 45:1, 46:2); king of Judaea (1:3, 22:24, 24:1, 25:1,
26:1, 26:21-23, 27:1, 27:20, 28:4, 35:1, 36:1, 36:9, 36:27-30, 36:32, 45:1,
46:2); father of Jeconiah (Jehoiachin) , also apparently called Coniah (22:24,
22:28,  37:1),who was taken away to  Babylon  by Nebuchadnezzar  (24:1,
27:20,  28:4),  and  who  was  replaced  by  his  brother  Zedekiah  (37:1).
Jeremiah addresses some of his revelations to Baruch, the son of Neriah, the
son of Maaseiah—in fact, there are 21 references to Baruch in the Book of
Jeremiah.  Hence it is not surprising that there should exist a non-canonical
Book of Baruch, and that the Greek form of Jehoiakim, which is Joachim,
should be cited as the name of a king of Judaea (3).   What is perhaps more
exceptional is that this same Book gives Joachim as the  name of a high priest
in Jerusalem,  “Joachim the high priest, the son of Chelcias, son of Salom”
(7).
In Chapter 21 of Book III of “Against Heresies”19, written towards the end of
the 2nd century CE by a disciple of Polycarp (who was himself a disciple of
John, the “beloved” of Jesus) named Irenaeus claimed that the prophet
Jeremiah predicted that Joseph, the adopted father of Jesus would be “the
son of Joachim and Jechoniah, as also Matthew sets forth in his pedigree.”
The Gospel of Matthew (1:11) does in fact list Jechonias (Jehoiachin), but as
the son of Josais rather than the son of Jehoiakim.  It is unlikely that Irenaeus
would have missed this skipped generation—but either he did so or he had a
rescension of Matthew’s Gospel that filled in the gap.
According to the Biblical records, Joachim (Jehoiakim) was not an illustrious
ancestor, and so it is somewhat puzzling that the father of Mary should be
named with this name, unless this were actually to have been his given name.
In any case, the author of the Protoevangelium of James did not indicate that
either of Mary’s parents were born to a distinguished let alone a royal house.
Her  father,  according  to  this  source  was  a  chief  shepherd,  with  other
shepherds under his command, and similar to other shepherds whose stories
were told in the canonical Scriptures, he was spoken to by an angel of the
Lord.

The second birth announcement is to Zachariah, the father of John the
Baptist and husband of Elizabeth, and is found in the Gospel as of Luke (1:11-
25):

JESUS † The Complete Biography
1:11 And there appeared unto him an angel of the Lord standing on the right
side of the altar of incense.  1:12 And when Zacharias saw him, he was
troubled, and fear fell upon him.  1:13 But the angel said unto him, Fear not,
Zacharias: for thy prayer is heard; and thy wife Elisabeth shall bear thee a
son, and thou shalt call his name John.  1:14 And thou shalt have joy and
gladness; and many shall rejoice at his birth.  1:15 For he shall be great in the
sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink; and he shall
be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother's womb.  1:16 And many of
the children of Israel shall he turn to the Lord their God.  1:17 And he shall go
before him in the spirit and power of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to
the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just; to make ready a
people prepared for the Lord.  1:18 And Zacharias said unto the angel,
Whereby shall I know this? for I am an old man, and my wife well stricken in
years.  1:19 And the angel answering said unto him, I am Gabriel, that stand in
the presence of God; and am sent to speak unto thee, and to shew thee
these glad tidings.  1:20 And, behold, thou shalt be dumb, and not able to
speak, until the day that these things shall be performed, because thou
believest not my words, which shall be fulfilled in their season.  1:21 And the
people waited for Zacharias, and marvelled that he tarried so long in the
temple.  1:22 And when he came out, he could not speak unto them: and they
perceived that he had seen a vision in the temple: for he beckoned unto them,
and remained speechless.  1:23 And it came to pass, that, as soon as the days
of his ministration were accomplished, he departed to his own house.  1:24
And after those days his wife Elisabeth conceived, and hid herself five
months, saying, 1:25 Thus hath the Lord dealt with me in the days wherein he
looked on me, to take away my reproach among men.
There are echoes aplenty of the Hebrew Bible in the annunciation of John,
including this origin of the Nazirite vow in the Book of Numbers:
6,1 And the LORD spoke unto Moses, saying: 6,2 Speak unto the children of
Israel, and say unto them: When either man or woman shall clearly utter a vow,
the vow of a Nazirite, to consecrate himself unto the LORD, 6,3 he shall
abstain from wine and strong drink: he shall drink no vinegar of wine, or

JESUS † The Complete Biography
vinegar of strong drink, neither shall he drink any liquor of grapes, nor eat
fresh grapes or dried. 6,4 All the days of his Naziriteship shall he eat nothing
that  is  made  of  the  grape-vine,  from  the  pressed  grapes  even  to  the
grapestone. 6,5 All the days of his vow of Naziriteship there shall no razor
come upon his head; until the days be fulfilled, in which he consecrateth
himself unto the LORD, he shall be holy, he shall let the locks of the hair of
his head grow long.
The Nazirite vow is referenced in the prayer of Anna, cited in the First Book
of Kings, and which was fulfilled in the birth of the prophet Samuel:
1:11 And she vowed a vow, and said, O LORD of hosts, if thou wilt indeed look
on the affliction of thine handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thine
handmaid, but wilt give unto thine handmaid a man child, then I will give him
unto the LORD all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his
head.
This same vow is required of the son of the wife of Manoah, who found
herself in a similar situation as Anna, the mother of Samuel.  Her son was
Samson, who was likewise dedicated to the service of God:
13:3 And the angel of the LORD appeared unto the woman, and said unto
her, Behold now, thou art barren, and bearest not: but thou shalt conceive,
and bear a son. 13:4 Now therefore beware, I pray thee, and drink not wine
nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing: 13:5 For, lo, thou shalt
conceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall come on his head: for the child
shall be a Nazarite unto God from the womb: and he shall begin to deliver
Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.
For the Jewish reader, the references to attributes of the Nazirite promises
that the son to be born in response to those prayers will be dedicated to the
service of God.  While Anna, the wife of Manoah and Elizabeth were, all three
of  them  barren,  and  the  mother  of  Jesus  was  a  virgin,  all  four  found
themselves pregnant through the Holy Spirit, and all four gave birth to sons
dedicated to the service of God.
In the Gospel of Luke, Zachariah is also promised by the angel that the son
who will be born to him will be like the return of Elijah the prophet:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
1:16 And many of the children of Israel shall he turn to the Lord their
God. 1:17 And he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias, to
turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to
the wisdom of the just; to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.
This seems to be in specific reference to the Book of Malachi:
4:5 Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great
and dreadful day of the LORD: 4:6 And he shall turn the heart of the fathers
to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and
smite the earth with a curse.
The third birth announcement is to Joseph, the betrothed of Mary, and it is
found in the Gospel of Matthew (1:20-24):
1:20 But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the LORD
appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to
take unto thee Mary thy wife: for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy
Ghost. 1:21 And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name
JESUS: for he shall save his people from their sins.  1:22 Now all this was
done, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet,
saying, 1:23 Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and
they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us.
1:24 Then Joseph being raised from sleep did as the angel of the Lord had
bidden him, and took unto him his wife: 1:25 And knew her not till she had
brought forth her firstborn son: and he called his name JESUS.
The Book of the prophet Isaiah is referenced in the above-cited angelic
visitation:
7:14 Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign; Behold, a virgin shall
conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.
This account is echoed in the non-canonical Gospel of Pseudo-Matthew,
also called the  Book of  the Birth  of the  Blessed Mary and  the
Infancy of the Saviour, allegedly written in Hebrew by the author of the
Gospel of Matthew, and translated into Latin by Jerome20:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
CHAP. 11.-- And when he was thinking of rising up and hiding himself, and
dwelling  in  secret,  behold,  on  that  very  night,  the  angel  of  the  Lord
appeared to him in sleep, saying:  Joseph, thou son of David, fear not;
receive Mary as thy wife: for that which is in her womb is of the Holy Spirit.
And she shall bring forth a son, and His name shall be called Jesus, for He
will save His people from their sins. And Joseph, rising from his sleep, gave
thanks to God, and spoke to Mary and the virgins who were with her, and
told them his vision. And he was comforted about Mary, saying: I have
sinned, in that I suspected thee at all.  CHAP. 12.--After these things there
arose a great report that Mary was with child. And Joseph was seized by
the officers of the temple, and brought along with Mary to the high priest.
And he with the priests began to reproach him, and to say: Why hast thou
beguiled so great and so glorious a virgin, who was fed like a dove in the
temple by the angels of God, who never wished either to see or to have a
man, who had the most excellent knowledge of the law of God? If thou
hadst  not  done  violence  to  her,  she would still  have remained  in  her
virginity. And Joseph vowed, and swore that he had never touched her at
all. And Abiathar the high priest answered him: As the Lord liveth, I will give
thee to drink of the water of drinking of the Lord, and immediately thy sin
will appear.
The fourth birth announcement is to Mary, the mother of Jesus, and it is
found in the Gospel of Luke (1:26-38):
1:26 And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of
Galilee, named Nazareth, 1:27 To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was
Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin's name was Mary.  1:28 And the
angel came in unto her, and said, Hail, thou that art highly favoured, the Lord
is with thee: blessed art thou among women.  1:29 And when she saw him, she
was troubled at his saying, and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this
should be.  1:30 And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary: for thou hast
found favour with God.  1:31 And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb,
and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name JESUS.  1:32 He shall be great,
and shall be called the Son of the Highest: and the Lord God shall give unto
him the throne of his father David: 1:33 And he shall reign over the house of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Jacob for ever; and of his kingdom there shall be no end.

1:34 Then said
Mary unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man? 1:35 And the
angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee,
and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee: therefore also that holy
thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God.  1:36 And,
behold, thy cousin Elisabeth, she hath also conceived a son in her old age:
and this is the sixth month with her, who was called barren.  1:37 For with God
nothing shall be impossible.  1:38 And Mary said, Behold the handmaid of the
Lord; be it unto me according to thy word. And the angel departed from her.
This angelic announcement is also found in the non-canonical Gospel of
Pseudo Matthew
CHAP. 9.--And on the second day, while Mary was at the fountain to fill
her pitcher, the angel of the Lord appeared to her, saying:  Blessed art
thou, Mary; for in thy womb thou hast prepared an habitation for the
Lord. For, lo, the light from heaven shall come and dwell in thee, and by
means of thee will shine over the whole world.  Again, on the third day,
while she was working at the purple with her fingers, there entered a young
man of ineffable beauty. And when Mary saw him, she exceedingly feared
and trembled. And he said to her: Hail, Mary, full of grace; the Lord is with
thee: blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb.
[1] And when she heard these words, she trembled, and was exceedingly
afraid. Then the angel of the Lord added: Fear not, Mary; for thou hast
found favour with God: Behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and shalt
bring forth a King, who fills not only the earth, but the heaven, and who
reigns from generation to generation.
This angelic proclamation makes reference to two Biblical texts—the first
being the Word of God to David through the prophet Nathan (Second Book of
Kings) ; the second the promise of the prophet Isaiah:
7:12 And when thy days be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, I will
set up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I will
establish his kingdom. 7:13 He shall build an house for my name, and  I will
stablish the throne of his kingdom for ever. 7:14 I will be his father, and he
shall be my son. If he commit iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and with the stripes of the children of men: 7:15 But my mercy shall not depart
away from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before thee. 7:16 And
thine house and thy kingdom shall be established for ever before thee: thy
throne shall be established for ever. 7:17 According to all these words, and
according to all this vision, so did Nathan speak unto David.
9:6 For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and the government
shall  be  upon  his  shoulder:  and  his  name  shall  be  called  Wonderful,
Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace.
9:7 Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end, upon
the throne of David, and upon his kingdom, to order it, and to establish it
with judgment and with justice from henceforth even for ever. The zeal of the
LORD of hosts will perform this.
This birth announcement to Mary is reiterated in the Suratu’l-‘Imran of the
Qur’an (III):
42. Behold! the angels said: "O Mary! Allah hath chosen thee and purified
thee; chosen thee above the women of all nations. 43. "O Mary! worship
thy Lord devoutly; prostrate thyself, and bow down (in prayer) with those
who bow down." 44. This is part of the tidings of the things unseen, which
We reveal unto thee (O Prophet!) by inspiration; thou wast not with them
when they cast lots with arrows, as to which of them should be charged
with the care of Mary; nor wast thou with them when they disputed (the
point). 45. Behold!  the angels said "O Mary! Allah giveth thee glad tidings
of a Word from Him: his name will be Christ Jesus, the son of Mary, held in
honor in this world and the Hereafter and of (the company of) those
nearest to Allah. 46. "He shall speak to the people in childhood and in
maturity, and he shall be (of the company) of the righteous." 47. She said:
"O my Lord! how shall I have a son when no man hath touched me?" He
said:  "Even so: Allah createth what He willeth; when He hath decreed a
plan, He but saith to it 'Be', and it is! 48. "And Allah will teach him the Book
and Wisdom, the Law and the Gospel. 49. "And (appoint him) a Messenger
to the Children of Israel…

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The fifth birth announcement is to the shepherds outside of Bethlehem, and
it is in the Gospel of Luke (2:8-18):
2:8 And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field,
keeping watch over their flock by night.  2:9 And, lo, the angel of the Lord
came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them: and
they were sore afraid.  2:10 And the  angel said unto them,  Fear not: for,
behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people.  2:11
For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ
the Lord.  2:12 And this shall be a sign unto you; Ye shall find the babe
wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger.  2:13 And suddenly there was
with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying, 2:14
Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men.  2:15
And it came to pass, as the angels were gone away from them into heaven, the
shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem, and see
this thing which is come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us.
2:16 And they came with haste, and found Mary, and Joseph, and the babe
lying in a manger.  2:17 And when they had seen it, they made known abroad
the saying which was told them concerning this child.  2:18 And all they that
heard it wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds.
The angel of the Lord had spoken to Joachim, to Zachariah, to Joseph,
to Mary, and now to the common people, the shepherds.  It is easy for us to
understand why the angel would have spoken to the principal players in
this story, but why to the shepherds?  Who but the shepherds were awake
and paying attention at that hour of night?  For the birth of Jesus took
place at night—during the daytime the wise men of the East could not have
tracked the star and discovered the King of the Jews.  During the daylight
hours the “glory of the Lord shone round about them” would not make
them “sore afraid”.  But in the night hours, with only the gentle light of the
stars and perhaps the moon to enable them to keep track of their flocks,
such a blast of God’s glory was shocking indeed.  These shepherds were
spoken to in Aramaic most likely, for they would not have understood
Greek or Roman and perhaps also not Hebrew.  Savior in Aramaic is
[eshu] and in Hebrew is [yeshu’a]; Christ in Aramaic is [meshicha] and in
Hebrew is [mashiach]; and the  Lord in Aramaic and Hebrew is [rabb].
Jesus was by name Eshu or Yeshu’a, he was meshicha/mashiach, and his
followers called him  rabb.  To the shepherds this meant that they were
being invited to meet a very singular and precious being, one whose advent
had been prayed for and longingly awaited for over a thousand years, and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
that  they  were  important  enough  in  God’s  eyes  to  be  invited  to  this
occasion,  to  be  present  at  his  first  appearance  in  this  world.   This
proclamation to the common folk was to continue to be a distinguishing
characteristic of Jesus’ ministry.
One of the unique features of the biography of Jesus, is that so many
annunciations occurred in association with his birth and with the birth of
his mother and cousin John.  In two of these birth announcements, both in
the Gospel of Luke, the angel is identified as Gabriel.  In the Hebrew Bible
there are two references to Gabriel, both in the Book of Daniel, and they
refer to a man, not an angel, but in a prophetic dream.  So, perhaps this is
Gabriel the angel…it isn’t clear.   But in the apocryphal Book of Enoch
there are eight references to Gabriel, and he is called one of the holy angels
(20:7-8) who is named (9:1, etc.), and who is “set over all the powers”
(40:9).  This Book of Enoch (71:12) is cited in the New Testament Epistle of
Jude (1:14), so it was familiar to some of the writers of the New Testament
canon.  We may surmise that it was also familiar to the author of the
Gospel of Luke.   Gabriel is also named, along with Michael (another of the
angels named in the Book of Daniel, the Book of Enoch and the Epistle of
Jude) in the Qur’an (2:98).   According to Islamic tradition, it was through
the angel Gabriel that Muhammad received the revelations which collected
and collated constitute the Qur’an as we know it.   Hence, one of the named
angels is found in the Book of Daniel, the Book of Enoch, the Epistle of
Jude and the Qur’an.  There must be a connection.  We’ll come back to this
theme later on.
There is a parallel between this annunciation of Jesus,and the chronicled
announcement  of  a  virtual  contemporary—the  Neo-Pythagorean21
philosopher and healer Apollonius of Tyana22.  In the first book of The Life
of Apollonius

23  , by Flavius Philostratus24 we find this reference which is
reminiscent of the Gospel account25:
To his mother, just before he was born, there came an apparition of
Proteus26, who changes his form so much in  Homer27, in the guise of an
Egyptian demon. She was in no way frightened, but asked him what sort of
child she would bear. And he answered: "Myself."
"And who are you?" she asked.
"Proteus," answered he, "the god of Egypt."
Well, I need hardly explain to readers of the poets the quality of Proteus
and his reputation as regards wisdom; how versatile he was, and for ever
changing his form, and defying capture, and how he had a reputation of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
knowing both past and future. And we must bear Proteus in mind all the
more, when my advancing story shows its hero to have been more of a
prophet than Proteus, and to have triumphed over many difficulties and
dangers in the moment when they beset him most closely.
The difference between these two is that Jesus of Nazareth appeared in a
monotheistic culture, one with few holy men over the course of centuries of
history (whether mythical or actual) who are reported to have had godlike
powers, the power to heal, the power to raise from the dead, the power to
ascend the heavens…men like Elijah and Elisha…while Apollonius of Tyana
was born into a polytheistic culture, one with many gods and demigods, heros
and other spirit beings, all of which had divine powers beyond anything
claimed  by  the  Biblical  prophets.   Jesus  was  well-nigh  unique,  whilst
Apollonius was merely one of many.
Prophecies fulfilled
Apart from the annunciations, we encounter some miraculous events that
precede and accompany the birth of Jesus.  Chronologically, the first (I) is
the prophecy that led the wise men from the East to seek the promised one
in the town of Bethlehem.  This story is told in the Gospel of Matthew (2:1-
12):
2:1 Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judaea in the days of Herod
the king, behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, 2:2
Saying, Where is he that is born King of the Jews? for we have seen his star
in the east, and are come to worship him.  2:3 When Herod the king had
heard these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him.  2:4 And
when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people
together, he demanded of them where Christ should be born.  2:5 And they
said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judaea: for thus it is written by the prophet28,
2:6 And thou Bethlehem, in the land of Juda, art not the least among the
princes of Juda: for out of thee shall come a Governor, that shall rule my
people Israel.  2:7 Then Herod, when he had privily called the wise men,
enquired of them diligently what time the star appeared.  2:8 And he sent
them to Bethlehem, and said, Go and search diligently for the young child;
and when ye have found him, bring me word again, that I may come and
worship him also.  2:9 When they had heard the king, they departed; and, lo,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the star, which they saw in the east, went before them, till it came and stood
over where the young child was.  2:10 When they saw the star, they rejoiced
with exceeding great joy.  2:11 And when they were come into the house, they
saw the young child with Mary his mother, and fell down, and worshipped
him: and when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him
gifts; gold, and frankincense and myrrh.  2:12 And being warned of God in a
dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed into their own
country another way.
At least two of the non-canonical gospels tell versions of this story.  One is
found in the Arabic Infancy Gospel of the Savior29:
7. And it came to pass, when the Lord Jesus was born at Bethlehem of
Judaea, in the time of King Herod, behold,  Magi came from the east to
Jerusalem, as Zeraduscht had predicted; and there were with them gifts,
gold, and frankincense, and myrrh. And they adored Him, and presented
to Him their gifts. Then the Lady Mary took one of the swaddling-bands,
and, on account of the smallness of her means, gave it to them; and they
received it from her with the greatest marks of honour. And in the same
hour there appeared to them an angel in the form of that star which had
before guided them on their journey; and they went away, following the
guidance of its light, until they arrived in their own country.  8. And their
kings and chief men came together to them, asking what they had seen or
done, how they had gone and come back, what they had brought with
them. And they showed them that swathing-cloth which the Lady Mary had
given them. Wherefore they celebrated a feast, and, according to their
custom, lighted a fire and worshipped it, and threw that swathing-cloth into
it; and the fire laid hold of it, and enveloped it. And when the fire had gone
out, they took out the swathing-cloth exactly as it had been before, just as
if the fire had not touched it. Wherefore they began to kiss it, and to put it
on their heads and their eyes, saying: This verily is the truth without doubt.
Assuredly it is a great thing that the fire was not able to burn or destroy it.
Then they took it, and with the greatest honour laid it up among their
treasures.  9. And when Herod saw that the Magi had left him, and not
come back to him, he summoned the priests and the wise men, and said to

JESUS † The Complete Biography
them: Show me where Christ is to be born. And when they answered, In
Bethlehem of Judaea, he began to think of putting the Lord Jesus Christ
to death.
There is another version found in the Protoevangelium of James30:
21. And, behold, Joseph was ready to go into Judaea. And there was a
great commotion in Bethlehem of Judaea, for Magi came, saying: Where is
he that is born king of the Jews? for we have seen his star in the east, and
have come to worship him. And when Herod heard, he was much disturbed,
and sent officers to the Magi. And he sent for the priests, and examined
them, saying: How is it written about the Christ? where is He to be born?
And they said: In Bethlehem of Judaea, for so it is written. And he sent
them away. And he examined the Magi, saying to them: What sign have you
seen in reference to the king that has been born? And the Magi said: We
have seen a star of great size shining among these stars, and obscuring
their light, so that the stars did not appear; and we thus knew that a king
has been born to Israel, and we have come to worship him. And Herod said:
Go and seek him; and if you find him, let me know, in order that I also may
go and worship him. And the Magi went out. And, behold, the star which
they had seen in the east went before them until they came to the cave,
and it stood over the top of the cave. And the Magi saw the infant with His
mother  Mary;  and  they  brought  forth  from  their  bag  gold,  and
frankincense, and myrrh. And having been warned by the angel not to go
into Judaea, they went into their own country by another road.
What star in the East?  Why would wise men [magi] come from the East
[Persia, Babylonia, Chaldea] to worship the King of the Jews?  Unless there
were prophecies in their Eastern tradition that pointed to the appearance of
a holy soul from among the Jewish people?  Unless those prophecies were
associated with the appearance of a specific celestial phenomenon?    What
sort of celestial phenomenon would be visible from the East, and could be
tracked so that its relationship with the planet earth could be triangulated
with such accuracy that it could lead its trackers to a specific town and a
specific place in that town?  This is the kind of calculation that has been
carried out by navigationists and cartographers for centuries, indeed, for
millennia.  But associated with the birth of the King of the Jews?

JESUS † The Complete Biography
We may find a clue in the Arabic Infancy Gospel of the Savior, cited
above.  This account is particularly significant for its clear identification of
the provenance of the Magi, the wise men from the East.  The author says
that in following the star from the East they were responding to a prophecy
of “Zeraduscht” – a rendering of the Middle Persian name of the Iranian
prophet whom we know (according to the Greek rendering) as “Zoroaster”.
In  modern  Persian  this  name  is  rendered  variously  as   “Zardusht”,
“Zardust”, “Zardajt”, “Zarátusht”, “Zarádusht”31.  The sect of his followers
is called “Zardániyyih” and a leader of that sect is called “Zardán”.  To
confuse  matters,  the  name  “Zardusht”  referred  in  some  instances  to
Abraham.  This is not as syncretistic or peculiar as it might first seem to
be…it turns out that “Zardusht” was the name given to Abraham because of
the original name for him of “Azardust” (meaning “friend of fire”), because
he was said to have recited verses from the Avesta, a Zoroastrian scripture,
when he was thrown into the furnace of fire…rather than fearing the fire,
he was its friend32.  The association of the Magi with Zoroastrians is then
potentially based on a reference in the non-canonical literature.
The prophecy of the coming of a messianic leader, announced by a star may
be found in some lost holy book of the East, possibly of the followers of
Zoroaster.  What did they bring to this King?  Gifts of gold, frankincense and
myrrh, the latter two being fragrant spices.  The Queen of Sheba, paying
homage to the widely reputed wisdom of King Solomon, another King of the
Jews, paid him a visit bearing gold, spices and precious stones (2 Chronicles
9:1,9; 3 Kings 10:1,10).  Frankincense and myrrh are cited fragrances in the
Song of Solomon no less than 7 times, more than in any other book included
in the canon, and the woman who adores King Solomon and speaks of these
along with the other sensory pleasures of his company, is dark in skin
pigment (1:5-6).  In Jewish legend, not surprisingly, the woman with dark
skin pigment who adores King Solomon is none other than the Queen of
Sheba.  Hence, the gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh were gifts to a
monarch, to demonstrate friendship, and the latter two were gifts fit for a
lover, to demonstrate passionate love.   Hence there is a natural association
for a Jewish reader between the wise men from the East and the people of
Sheba.  But Sheba is not in the East…it is in the South.  The Queen of Sheba
is called “queen of the south” in the Gospel of Matthew (12:42) and the
Gospel of Luke (11:31).
These wise men from the East did not just seek the King of the Jews
prophesied in their tradition; they did not just find him and give him gifts;
they were also warned by God in a dream to avoid Herod, the reigning
monarch of Judaea, and thereby preserved the life of Jesus.  These were wise
men inspired by God.  This is the first message of inclusive spirituality found
in the Gospels.  The promised King of the Jews, the mashiach ben David was
not sought out, worshipped and protected from persecution by fellow Jews,
but by wise men from the East…from a different race, a different country, a

JESUS † The Complete Biography
different religious tradition.  And yet here is a potent message—that the
Jewish monarch, Herod, builder of the great Temple and rebuilder of the
city of Jerusalem, wished to destroy the mashiach, the promised one of his
own people, while visitors from far away came to worship him and give him
gifts befitting a king.  These visitors doubtless concealed their gifts from
Herod, for there is no record of their giving him anything.  The king they
worshipped, the king they had come to honor was in a manger, born of poor
parents in the little town of Bethlehem.  They recall the words of Isaiah
(40:4):  “Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill made
low.”
What most students of the gospel accounts have not noted heretofore is that
the stellar announcement of the birth of Jesus was not unprecedented in
Jewish tradition.  In chapter 8 of the Sefer ha-Yashar33, it is stated that a
star from the East announced the birth of Abram:
.
1.And it was in the night that Abram was born, that all the servants of
Terah, and all the wise men of Nimrod, and his conjurors came and ate and
drank in the house of Terah, and they rejoiced with him on that night.  2.
And when all the wise men  and conjurors went out from the house of
Terah, they lifted up their  eyes toward heaven that night to
look at the stars, and they saw, and  behold one very large star came from
the east and ran in the heavens, and he swallowed up the four stars from
the four sides of the  heavens.  3. And all the wise men of the king and his
conjurors were astonished  at the sight, and the sages understood  this
matter, and they knew  its import.  4. And they said toeach other, this  only
betokens the child that has been born to Terah this night, who will grow up
and be fruitful, and multiply, and possess all the earth, he and his children
for ever, and he and his seed will slay great kings, and inherit their lands. 5.
And the wise men and conjurors went home that night, and in the morning
all these wise men and conjurors rose up early, and assembled in an
appointed house. 6. And they spoke and said to each other, behold the
sight that we saw last night is hidden from the king, it has not been made
known to him. 7. And should this thing get known to the king in the latter
days, he will say to us, why have you concealed this matter from me, and
then we shall all suffer death ; therefore, now let us go and tell the king the
sight which we saw, and the interpretation thereof, and we shall then
remain clear. 8. And they did so, and they all went to the king and bowed

JESUS † The Complete Biography
down to him to the ground, and they said,  may the king live, may the king
live.  9. We heard that a son was born to Terah the son of Nahor, the prince
of thy host, and we yesternight came to his house, and we ate and drank
and rejoiced with him that night. 10. And when thy servants went out from
the house of Terah, to go to our respective homes to abide there for the
night, we lifted up our eyes to heaven, and we saw a great star coming from
the cast, and the same star ran with great speed, and swallowed up four
great stars, from the four sides of the heavens. 11. And thy servants were
astonished at the sight which we saw, and were greatly terrified, and we
made our judgment upon the sight, and knew by our wisdom the proper
interpretation thereof, that that this thing applies to the child that is born
to Terah, who will grow up and multiply greatly, and become powerful, and
kill all the kings of the earth, and inherit all their lands, he and his seed
forever.  12. And now our lord and king, behold we have truly acquainted
thee with what we have seen concerning this child.  12. If it seemeth good to
the king to give his father value for this child, we will slay him before he
shall grow up and increase in the land, and his evil increase against us, that
we and our children perish through his evil. 14. And the king heard their
words and they seemed good in his sight, and he sent and called for Terah,
and Terah came before the king, 15. And the king said to Terah, I have
been told that a son was yesternight born to thee, and after this manner
was observed in the heavens at his birth.
16. And now therefore give me the child, that we may slay him before his evil
springs up against us, and I will give thee for his value, thy house full of
silver and gold.  17. And Terah answered the king and said to him; my Lord
and king, I have heard thy words, and thy servantshall do all that his king
desireth. 18. But my lord and king, I will tell thee what happened to me
yesternight,that I may see what advice the king will give his servant, and
then I will answer the king upon what he has just spoken; and the king said,
speak. 19. And Terah said to the king, Ayon, son of Mored, came to me
yesternight, saying, 20. Give unto me the great and
beautiful horse that the king gave thee, and I will give thee silver and gold,
and straw and provender for its value; and Isaid to him, wait till I see the
king concerning thy words, and behold whatever the king saith, that will I

JESUS † The Complete Biography
do. 21. And now my lord and king, behold I have made this thing known to
thee, and the advice which my king will give unto his servant, that will I
follow. 22. And the king heard the words of Terah, and his anger was
kindled and he considered him in the light of a fool. 23. And the king
answered Terah, and he said to him, art thou so silly, ignorant, or deficient
in understanding, to do this thing, to give thy beautiful horse for silver and
gold or even for straw and provender? 24. Art thou so short of silver and
gold, that thou shouldest do this thing, because thou canst not obtain
straw and provender to feed thy horse 7 and what is silver and gold to
thee, or straw and provender, that thou shouldst give away that fine horse
which I gave thee, like which there is none to be had on the whole earth? 25.
And the king left off speaking, and Terah answered the king, saying, like
unto this has the king spoken to his servant; 26. I beseech thee, my lord
and king, what is this which thou didst say unto me, saying, give thy son
that we may slay him, and I will give thee silver and gold for his value ; what
shall I do with silver and gold after the death of my son?  who shall inherit
me? surely then at my death, the silver and gold will return to my king who
gave it. 27. And when the king heard the words of Terah, and the parable
which he brought concerning the king, it grieved him greatly and he was
vexed at this thing, and his anger burned within him. 28. And Terah saw
that the anger of the king was kindled against nim, and he answered the
king, saying, all that I have is in the king's power ; whatever the king
desireth to do to his servant, that let him do, yea, even my son, he is in the
king's power, without value in exchange, he and his two brothers that are
older than he. 29. And the king said to Terah, no, but I will purchase thy
younger son for a price. 30. And Terah answered the king, saying, I
beseech thee my lord and king to let thy servant speak a word before thee,
and let the king hear the word of his servant, and Terah said, let my king
give me three days time till I consider this matter within myself, and consult
with my family concerning the words of my king; and he pressed the king
greatly to agree to this. 31. And the king hearkened to Terah, and he did so
and he gave him three days time, and Terah went out from the king's
presence, and he came home to his family and spoke to them all the words
of the king; and the people were greatly afraid. 32. And it was in the third

JESUS † The Complete Biography
day that the king sent to Terah, saying, send me thy son for a price as I
spoke to thee; and shouldst thou not do this, I will send and slay all thou
hast in thy house, so that thou shall not even have a dog remaining. 33. And
Terah hastened, (as the thing was urgent from the king), and he took a
child from one of his servants, which his handmaid had born to him that
day, and Terah brought the child to the king and received value fur him.
34. And the Lord was with Terah in this matter, that Nimrod might not
cause Abram's death, and the king took the child from Terah and with all
his might dashed his head to the ground, for he thought it had been
Abram;  and  this  was  concealed  from  him  from  that  day,  and  it  was
forgotten by the king, as it was the will of Providence not to suffer Abram’s
death. 35. And Terah took Abram his son secretly, together with his
mother and nurse, and he concealed them in a cave, and he brought them
their provisions monthly. 36. And the Lord  was with Abram in the cave and
he grew up, and Abram was in the cave ten years, and the king and his
princes, soothsayers and sages, thought that the king had killed Abram.
In the Gospel of Pseudo-Matthew, the tradition is told of there being an
effulgence of light attending the birth of Jesus:
And when he had thus said, the angel ordered the beast to stand, for the
time when she should bring forth was at hand; and he commanded the
blessed Mary to come down off the animal, and go into a recess under a
cavern, in which there never was light, but always darkness, because the
light of day could not reach it. And when the blessed Mary had gone into
it, it began to shine with as much brightness as if it were the sixth hour of
the day. The light from God so shone in the cave, that neither by day nor
night was light wanting as long as the blessed Mary was there. And there
she brought forth a son, and the angels surrounded Him when He was
being born.
A similar story is found in the Arabic Infancy Gospel of the Savior34:
3. Wherefore, after sunset, the old woman, and Joseph with her, came to
the cave, and they both went in. And, behold, it was filled with lights more
beautiful than the gleaming of lamps and candles, (4) and more splendid

JESUS † The Complete Biography
than the light of the sun. The child, enwrapped in swaddling clothes, was
sucking the breast of the Lady Mary His mother, being placed in a stall.
And when both were wondering at this light, the old woman asks the Lady
Mary: Art thou the mother of this Child? And when the Lady Mary gave
her assent, she says: Thou art not at all like the daughters of Eve. The
Lady Mary said: As my son has no equal among children, so his mother has
no equal among women. The old woman replied: My mistress, I came to get
payment; I have been for a long time affected with palsy. Our mistress the
Lady Mary said to her: Place thy hands upon the child. And the old woman
did  so,  and  was  immediately  cured.  Then  she  went  forth,  saying:
Henceforth I will be the attendant and servant of this child all the days of
my life.
This phenomenon is also associated in some surviving Jewish traditions of
the births of notables.  Perhaps  first among them is Noah, whose birth is
depicted in a fragment of the  Book of Noah, which is appended to the
Book of Enoch (chapter 106)35:
1. And after some days my son Methuselah took a wife for his son Lamech,
and she became pregnant by him and bore a son. 2. And his body was
white as snow and red as the blooming of a rose, and the hair of his head
and his long locks were white as wool, and his eyes beautiful. And when he
opened his eyes, he lighted up the whole house like the sun, and the whole
house was very bright. 3. And thereupon he arose in the hands of the
midwife, opened his mouth, and conversed with the Lord of righteousness.
4. And his father Lamech was afraid of him and fled, and came to his father
Methuselah. 5. And he said unto him: 'I have begotten a strange son,
diverse from and unlike man, and resembling the sons of the God of
heaven; and his nature is different and he is not like us, and his eyes are as
the rays of the sun, and his countenance is glorious. 6. And it seems to me
that he is not sprung from me but from the angels, and I fear that in his
days a wonder may be wrought on the earth. 7. And now, my father, I am
here to petition thee and implore thee that thou mayest go to Enoch, our
father, and learn from him the truth, for his dwelling-place is amongst the
angels.' 8. And when Methuselah heard the words of his son, he came to
me to the ends of the earth; for he had heard that I was there, and he cried

JESUS † The Complete Biography
aloud, and I heard his voice and I came to him. And 1 said unto him: 'Behold,
here am I, my son, wherefore hast thou come to me?' 9. And he answered
and said: 'Because of a great cause of anxiety have I come to thee, and
because of a disturbing vision have I approached. 10. And now, my father,
hear me: unto Lamech my son there hath been born a son, the like of whom
there is none, and his nature is not like man's nature, and the colour of his
body is whiter than snow and redder than the bloom of a rose, and the hair
of his head is whiter than white wool, and his eyes are like the rays of the
sun, and he opened his eyes and thereupon lighted up the whole house. 11.
And he arose in the hands of the midwife, and opened his mouth and
blessed the Lord of heaven. 12. And his father Lamech became afraid and
fled to me, and did not believe that he was sprung from him, but that he was
in the likeness of the angels of heaven; and behold I have come to thee
that thou mayest make known to me the truth.' 13. And I, Enoch, answered
and said unto him: 'The Lord will do a new thing on the earth, and this I
have  already  seen  in  a  vision,  and  make  known  to  thee  that  in  the
generation of my father Jared some of the angels of heaven transgressed
the word of the Lord. 14. And behold they commit sin and transgress the
law, and have united themselves with women and commit sin with them, and
have married some of them, and have begot children by them. 17. And they
shall produce on the earth giants not according to the spirit, but according
to the flesh, and there shall be a great punishment on the earth, and the
earth shall be cleansed from all impurity. 15. Yea, there shall come a great
destruction over the whole earth, and there shall be a deluge and a great
destruction for one year. 16. And this son who has been born unto you
shall be left on the earth, and his three children shall be saved with him:
when all mankind that are on the earth shall die [he and his sons shall be
saved]. 18. And now make known to thy son Lamech that he who has been
born is in truth his son, and call his name Noah; for he shall be left to you,
and he and his sons shall be saved from the destruction, which shall come
upon the earth on account of all the sin and all the unrighteousness, which
shall be consummated on the earth in his days. 19. And after that there
shall be still more unrighteousness than that which was first consummated
on the earth; for I know the mysteries of the holy ones; for He, the Lord,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
has showed me and informed me, and I have read (them) in the heavenly
tablets.
This association of heavenly light with the birth of Noah is also found in the
case of Moses, in various sources – the first is Tractate Sotah 12b-13a of the
Babylonian Talmud36:
And Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took etc.37  The 'sister of
Aaron' and not the sister of Moses! — R. Amram said in the name of Rab,
and according to others it was R. Nahman who said in the name of Rab: It
teaches that she prophesied while she yet was the sister of Aaron only 38
and said: 'My mother will bear a son who will be the saviour of Israel'. When
Moses was born, the whole house was filled with light; and her father
arose and kissed her upon her head, saying 'My daughter, thy prophecy
has been fulfilled'; but when they cast him into the river, her father arose
and smacked her upon her head, saying: 'Where, now, is thy prophecy!'
That is what is written: And his sister stood afar off to know what would
be done to him1  — what would be the fate of her prophecy.
The second source, a reiteration of the first, is found in Tractate Megillah
14a of the Babylonian Talmud37:
‘Miriam’, as it is written, And Miriam the prophetess the sister of  Aaron.20
Was she only the sister of Aaron and not the sister of Moses? — R.
Nahman  said  in  the  name  of  Rab:  [She  was  so  called]  because  she
prophesied when she was the sister of Aaron [only] and said, My mother is
destined to bear a son who will save Israel. When he
was born the whole house was filled with light, and her father arose and
kissed her on the head, saying, My daughter, thy prophecy has been
fulfilled.  But when they threw him into the river her father arose and
tapped her on the head, saying. Daughter, where is thy prophecy? So it is
written, And his sister stood afar off to know; to know, [that is,] what
would be with the latter part of her prophecy.
The second (II) miraculous event was that Elisabeth, the mother of John
(the Baptist) “was filled with the Holy Ghost” and she spoke to Mary in a
most arresting fashion, as recorded in the Gospel of Luke (1:41-45):

JESUS † The Complete Biography
1:41 And it came to pass, that, when Elisabeth heard the salutation of Mary,
the babe leaped in her womb; and Elisabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost:
1:42 And she spake out with a loud voice, and said, Blessed art thou among
women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb.  1:43 And whence is this to me,
that the mother of my Lord should come to me? 1:44 For, lo, as soon as the
voice of thy salutation sounded in mine ears, the babe leaped in my womb
for  joy.   1:45  And  blessed  is  she  that  believed:  for  there  shall  be  a
performance of those things which were told her from the Lord.
This inspired statement summarizes the adoration which millions of women
have borne for Mary, mother of Jesus: “blessed art thou among women, and
blessed is the fruit of thy womb” and, out of profound respect she asks
“Whence is this to me, that the mother of my Lord should come to me?”
Elisabeth is blessed with an awareness that the son of her cousin will be the
promised mashiach.  Elisabeth did not speak these words after Mary told
her about her vision of the angel, she spoke the very moment she “heard the
salutation of Mary”, when Mary arrived at her home.  Mary knew what was
coming, as she had held converse with the angel Gabriel.  He told her that
she could conceive without having relations with a man, and furthermore:
1:36 And, behold, thy cousin Elisabeth, she hath also conceived a son in her
old age: and this is the sixth month with her, who was called barren.  1:37 For
with God nothing shall be impossible.
Mary understood the power of God she was dealing with, and she replied:
1:38 And Mary said,  Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it unto me
according to thy word. And the angel departed from her.
Mary then proceeded to visit her cousin Elisabeth:
1:39 And Mary arose in those days, and went into the hill country with haste,
into a city of Juda; 1:40 And entered into the house of Zacharias, and
saluted Elisabeth.
Hence, Mary knew all about Elisabeth’s miraculous pregnancy, as well as
her own, and yet Elisabeth most likely had no knowledge of the divine
purpose of her own pregnancy, as her husband Zachariah had been muted
by the angel Gabriel.  No knowledge until Mary cried out her salutation, and
in that moment “the babe leaped in her womb”, for John knew even in the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
womb that his Lord approached, and “Elisabeth was filled with the Holy
Ghost”.  It was that inspiration that filled her soul with awareness of the
truth.
The third (III) miracle is that Mary replies in words that are not identified as
divinely  inspired,  but  which  have  inspired  more  beautiful  music  than
perhaps any other Biblical text, which constitute undoubtedly the most
compressed prayer from a woman to God, a prayer full of assurance and
rejoicing:
1:46 And Mary said,  My soul doth magnify the Lord, 1:47 And my
spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour.  1:48 For he hath regarded the
low  estate  of  his  handmaiden:  for,  behold,  from  henceforth  all
generations shall call me blessed.  1:49 For he that is mighty hath
done to me great things; and holy is his name.  1:50 And his mercy is
on them that fear him from generation to generation.  1:51 He hath
shewed strength with his arm; he hath scattered the proud in the
imagination of their hearts.  1:52 He hath put down the mighty from
their seats, and exalted them of low degree.  1:53 He hath filled the
hungry with good things; and the rich he hath sent empty away.  1:54
He hath holpen his servant Israel, in remembrance of his mercy; 1:55
As he spake to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed for ever.
This prayer of Mary might be compared to the prayer of Hannah, the mother
of Samuel, after he was weaned and she had delivered him to the priest Eli
in the House of the Lord at Shiloh:
2:1 My heart rejoiceth in the LORD, mine horn is exalted in the LORD: my
mouth is enlarged over mine enemies; because I rejoice in thy salvation. 2:2
There is none holy as the LORD: for there is none beside thee: neither is
there any rock like our God. 2:3 Talk no more so exceeding proudly; let not
arrogancy come out of your mouth: for the LORD is a God of knowledge,
and by him actions are weighed. 2:4 The bows of the mighty men are broken,
and they that stumbled are girded with strength. 2:5 They that were full have
hired out themselves for bread; and they that were hungry ceased: so that
the barren hath born seven; and she that hath many children is waxed
feeble. 2:6 The LORD killeth, and maketh alive: he bringeth down to the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
grave, and bringeth up. 2:7 The LORD maketh poor, and maketh rich: he
bringeth low, and lifteth up. 2:8 He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and
lifteth up the beggar from the dunghill, to set them among princes, and to
make them inherit the throne of glory: for the pillars of the earth are the
LORD's, and he hath set the world upon them. 2:9 He will keep the feet of
his saints, and the wicked shall be silent in darkness; for by strength shall no
man prevail. 2:10 The adversaries of the LORD shall be broken to pieces;
out of heaven shall he thunder upon them: the LORD shall judge the ends
of the earth; and he shall give strength unto his king, and exalt the horn of
his anointed.
The prophetess Deborah also prayed a special prayer (Judges):
5:2 Praise ye the LORD for the avenging of Israel, when the people willingly
offered themselves. 5:3 Hear, O ye kings; give ear, O ye princes; I, even I, will
sing unto the LORD; I will sing praise to the LORD God of Israel. 5:4
LORD, when thou wentest out of Seir, when thou marchedst out of the field
of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens dropped, the clouds also
dropped water. 5:5 The mountains melted from before the LORD, even that
Sinai from before the LORD God of Israel. 5:6 In the days of Shamgar the
son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the highways were unoccupied, and the
travellers walked through byways. 5:7 The inhabitants of the villages ceased,
they ceased in Israel, until that I Deborah arose, that I arose a mother in
Israel. 5:8 They chose new gods; then was war in the gates: was there a
shield or spear seen among forty thousand in Israel? 5:9 My heart is toward
the governors of Israel, that offered themselves willingly among the people.
Bless ye the LORD. 5:10 Speak, ye that ride on white asses, ye that sit in
judgment, and walk by the way. 5:11 They that are delivered from the noise of
archers  in  the  places  of  drawing  water,  there  shall  they  rehearse  the
righteous acts of the LORD, even the righteous acts toward the inhabitants
of his villages in Israel: then shall the people of the LORD go down to the
gates. 5:12 Awake, awake, Deborah: awake, awake, utter a song: arise,
Barak, and lead thy captivity captive, thou son of Abinoam. 5:13 Then he
made him that remaineth have dominion over the nobles among the people:
the LORD made me have dominion over the mighty. 5:14 Out of Ephraim was

JESUS † The Complete Biography
there a root of them against Amalek; after thee, Benjamin, among thy
people; out of Machir came down governors, and out of Zebulun they that
handle the pen of the writer. 5:15 And the princes of Issachar were with
Deborah; even Issachar, and also Barak: he was sent on foot into the valley.
For the divisions of Reuben there were great thoughts of heart. 5:16 Why
abodest thou among the sheepfolds, to hear the bleatings of the flocks?
For the divisions of Reuben there were great searchings of heart. 5:17 Gilead
abode beyond Jordan: and why did Dan remain in ships? Asher continued
on the sea shore, and abode in his breaches. 5:18 Zebulun and Naphtali were
a people that jeoparded their lives unto the death in the high places of the
field. 5:19 The kings came and fought, then fought the kings of Canaan in
Taanach by the waters of Megiddo; they took no gain of money. 5:20 They
fought from heaven; the stars in their courses fought against Sisera. 5:21
The river of Kishon swept them away, that ancient river, the river Kishon. O
my soul, thou hast trodden down strength. 5:22 Then were the horsehoofs
broken by the means of the pransings, the pransings of their mighty ones.
5:23 Curse ye Meroz, said the angel of the LORD, curse ye bitterly the
inhabitants thereof; because they came not to the help of the LORD, to the
help of the LORD against the mighty. 5:24 Blessed above women shall Jael
the wife of Heber the Kenite be, blessed shall she be above women in the
tent. 5:25 He asked water, and she gave him milk; she brought forth butter in
a lordly dish. 5:26 She put her hand to the nail, and her right hand to the
workmen's hammer; and with the hammer she smote Sisera, she smote off his
head, when she had pierced and stricken through his temples. 5:27 At her
feet he bowed, he fell, he lay down: at her feet he bowed, he fell: where he
bowed, there he fell down dead. 5:28 The mother of Sisera looked out at a
window, and cried through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long in coming?
why tarry the wheels of his chariots? 5:29 Her wise ladies answered her, yea,
she returned answer to herself, 5:30 Have they not sped? have they not
divided the prey; to every man a damsel or two; to Sisera a prey of divers
colours,  a prey of  divers colours of  needlework,  of  divers colours of
needlework on both sides, meet for the necks of them that take the spoil?
5:31 So let all thine enemies perish, O LORD: but let them that love him be as
the sun when he goeth forth in his might.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
As we can see, the prayer of Mary is of an entirely different nature than that
of Hannah or Deborah.  We are inclined to regard her prayer as one of the
miracles of the Gospels, as it soars and inspires, inclining us to greater
reverence for God and love for fellow man, in significant contrast to those of
the mother of a prophet and the prophetess.
There are, nevertheless, parallels between specific verses of her prayer and
verses in the Hebrew Bible.  Luke 1:47 recalls Habbakuk 3:18; Luke 1:48
recalls 1 Samuel 1:11 and Genesis 30:13; Luke 1:49 recalls Psalm 111:9; Luke
1:50 recalls Psalm 103:17; Luke 1:51 recalls Psalm 89:10; Luke 1:52 recalls
Ecclesiasticus 10:14, Ezekiel 21:31; Luke 1:53 recalls Psalm 107:9; Luke 1:54
recalls Isaiah 41:8, Psalm 98:3; Luke 1:55 recalls Micah 7:20, 2 Samuel
22:51.  There are some who claim that the Qur’an is a pasticcio of themes
and stories from the Bible…others may believe that the Gospels are a
recapitulation of what is already in the Hebrew Bible.  Let the reader return
to  this  prayer  of  Mary,  read  it  again,  and  come  to  an  independent
assessment.
The fourth (IV) miracle was the inspiration of Zachariah, the husband of
Elisabeth, who, upon once more being granted the capacity to speak, was,
like his wife, “filled with the Holy Ghost” and prophesied the future of his
son and his son’s Lord:
1:67  And  his  father  Zacharias  was  filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  and
prophesied, saying,  1:68 Blessed be the Lord God of Israel; for he hath
visited and redeemed his people, 1:69 And hath raised up an horn of
salvation for us in the house of his servant David; 1:70 As he spake by the
mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began: 1:71 That
we should be saved from our enemies, and from the hand of all that hate us;
1:72 To perform the mercy promised to our fathers, and to remember his
holy covenant; 1:73 The oath which he sware to our father Abraham, 1:74
That he would grant unto us, that we being delivered out of the hand of our
enemies might serve him without fear, 1:75 In holiness and righteousness
before him, all the days of our life.  1:76 And thou, child, shalt be called the
prophet of the Highest: for thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to
prepare his ways; 1:77 To give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the
remission of their sins, 1:78 Through the tender mercy of our God; whereby
the dayspring from on high hath visited us, 1:79 To give light to them that sit

JESUS † The Complete Biography
in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of
peace.
The Qur’an (Suratu’l-‘Imran) tells much the same story:
38. There did Zakariya pray to his Lord, saying: "O my Lord! grant
unto me from Thee a progeny that is pure; for Thou art He that
heareth prayer!"39. While he was standing in prayer in the chamber,
the angels called unto him:  "Allah doth give thee glad tidings of
Yahya, witnessing the truth of a Word from Allah, and (be besides)
noble, chaste, and a Prophet, of the (goodly) company of the
righteous." 40. He said: "O my Lord! how shall I have a son, seeing I
am very old, and my wife is barren?" "Thus," was the answer, "doth
Allah accomplish what He willeth." 41. He said: "O my Lord! give me a
sign!" "Thy Sign," was the answer, "shall be that thou shalt speak to
no man for three days but with signals. Then celebrate the praises
of thy Lord again and again, and glorify Him in the evening and in
the morning."
The fifth (V) miracle was the inspiration of Simeon, who realized that God’s
promise to him had been answered when he met Jesus shortly after his
birth, in Jerusalem, as told in the Gospel of Luke:
2:25 And, behold, there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon;
and the same man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of
Israel: and the Holy Ghost was upon him.  2:26 And it was revealed unto him
by the Holy Ghost, that he should not see death, before he had seen the
Lord's Christ.  2:27 And he came by the Spirit into the temple: and when
the parents brought in the child Jesus, to do for him after the custom of
the law, 2:28 Then took he him up in his arms, and blessed God, and said,
2:29 Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy
word: 2:30 For mine eyes have seen thy salvation, 2:31 Which thou hast
prepared before the face of all people; 2:32 A light to lighten the Gentiles,
and the glory of thy people Israel.  2:33 And Joseph and his mother

JESUS † The Complete Biography
marvelled at those things which were spoken of him.  2:34 And Simeon
blessed them, and said unto Mary his mother, Behold, this child is set for
the fall and rising again of many in Israel; and  for a sign which shall be
spoken against; 2:35 (Yea, a sword shall pierce through thy own soul also,)
that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed.
The  words  of  Simeon  are  replete  with  references  to  more  ancient
prophecies, those embedded in the Book of Isaiah the Hebrew prophet.
“A light to lighten the Gentiles, and the glory of thy people Israel”
recalls:
42:6 I the LORD have called thee in righteousness, and will hold thine
hand, and will keep thee, and give thee for a covenant of the people, for a
light  of  the  Gentiles; 42:7  To  open  the  blind  eyes,  to  bring  out  the
prisoners from the prison, and them that sit in darkness out of the prison
house. 42:8 I am the LORD: that is my name: and my glory will I not give to
another, neither my praise to graven images.
49:5 And now, saith the LORD that formed me from the womb to be his
servant, to bring Jacob again to him, Though Israel be not gathered, yet
shall I be glorious in the eyes of the LORD, and my God shall be my
strength. 49:6 And he said, It is a light thing that thou shouldest be my
servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and to restore the preserved of
Israel: I will also give thee for a light to the Gentiles, that thou mayest be my
salvation unto the end of the earth.
60:2 For, behold, the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness
the people: but the LORD shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall be
seen upon thee. 60:3 And the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to
the brightness of thy rising.
“Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in
Israel” recalls another passage from Isaiah:
2:12 For the day of the LORD of hosts shall be upon every one that is
proud and lofty,  and upon every one that is lifted up; and he shall be

JESUS † The Complete Biography
brought low: 2:13 And upon all the cedars of Lebanon, that are high and
lifted up, and upon all the oaks of Bashan, 2:14 And upon all the high
mountains, and upon all the hills that are lifted up, 2:15 And upon every
high tower, and upon every fenced wall, 2:16 And upon all the ships of
Tarshish, and upon all pleasant pictures. 2:17 And the loftiness of man shall
be bowed down, and the haughtiness of men shall be made low: and the
LORD alone shall be exalted in that day.
40:4  Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be
made low: and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough places
plain…
Another  possible  reference  to  the  Book  of  Isaiah  are  these  words,
“Behold,  this  child  is  set…for  a  sign  which  shall  be  spoken
against…”:
7:14 Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign; Behold, a virgin shall
conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.
As there were many who denied the virgin birth of Jesus (as will be
described shortly), and certainly this qualifies as “a sign which shall be
spoken against”.
The Gospel of Luke will refer to unambiguously to one of these above-cited
passages from the Book of Isaiah, and the Gospels of Matthew and Mark
will likewise make reference to an abbreviated version of that passage…we
will come to this prophetic reference when we consider the prophethood of
John the Baptist.
The sixth (VI) miracle was the inspiration of Anna, a prophetess, also
described in the Gospel of Luke:
2:36 And there was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of
the tribe of Aser: she was of a great age, and had lived with an husband
seven  years  from  her  virginity;  2:37  And  she  was  a  widow  of  about
fourscore and four years, which departed not from the temple, but served
God with fastings and prayers night and day.  2:38 And she coming in that

JESUS † The Complete Biography
instant gave thanks likewise unto the Lord, and spake of him to all them
that looked for redemption in Jerusalem.
There is no prophetess in the Hebrew Bible named Hannah…but there are
four prophetesses…the first is Miryam, the sister of Moses and Aaron
(Exodus 15:20); and the second is Deborah, the wife of Lapidoth (Judges
4:4); the third is Huldah, wife of Shallum (2 Chronicles 34:22; 4 Kings
22:14); the fourth is Noadiah (Nehemiah 6:14).  In the Book of Revelation,
it is written that Jezebel called herself a prophetess (2:20), and while
Jezebel “cut off the prophets” of God (18:3, 18:13) and fed the “prophets of
Baal” at her royal table (18:19), the Hebrew Bible does not designate her a
prophetess.  The prophetess was, evidently, a rare breed…it is all the more
significant that the prophetess Anna is mentioned in the Gospel of Luke,
along with the prophet Simeon.
Independent Attestations
In our scientific age, one that purports to insist upon empirical evidence,
or at least independent attestations of existence in order to corroborate the
accounts of those whose testimony is regarded as likely to be biased, it is
well worth our effort to search the records of antiquity to see if John the
Baptist and Jesus of Nazareth are mentioned there.
Epiphanius, Against Heresies, Book XXX, Chapter 13:
13.4,  citing  the  Gospel  of  the  Ebionites—“John  was  baptizing;  and
Pharisees went out to him and were baptized, and all Jerusalem.  Now John
wore a garment of camel’s hair, and a leather girdle around his waist; his
food was wild honey, tasting like manna, like a cake in olive oil”
13.6, citing the  Gospel of the Ebionites—“In the days of Herod, king of
Judea, when Caiaphas was high priest, acertain man named John came
baptizing with a baptism of repentence in the river Jordan.  He was said to
be of the family of Aaron the priest, son of Zechariah and Elizabeth, and
all went out to him.”
Titus Flavius Josephus, Antiquities of the Jews38, Book XVIII, Chapter
3:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Now there was about this time Jesus, a wise man, if it be lawful to call him a
man; for he was a doer of wonderful works, a teacher of such men as
receive the truth with pleasure. He drew over to him both many of the Jews
and many of the Gentiles. He was [the] Christ. And when Pilate, at the
suggestion of the principal men amongst us, had condemned him to the
cross,  those  that  loved  him  at  the  first  did  not  forsake  him;  for  he
appeared to them alive again the third day;  as the divine prophets had
foretold these and ten thousand other wonderful things concerning him.
And the tribe of Christians, so named from him, are not extinct at this day.
Titus Flavius Josephus, Antiquities of the Jews39, Book XVIII, Chapter
5:
2. Now some of the Jews thought that the destruction of Herod’s army
came from God, and that very justly, as a punishment of what he did
against John, that was called the Baptist: for Herod slew him, who was a
good  man,  and  commanded  the  Jews  to  exercise  virtue,  both  as  to
righteousness towards one another, and piety towards God, and so to
come to baptism; for that the washing [with water] would be acceptable to
him, if they made use of it, not in order to the putting away [or the
remission]  of  some  sins  [only],  but  for  the  purification  of  the  body;
supposing  still  that  the  soul  was  thoroughly  purified  beforehand  by
righteousness. Now when [many] others came in crowds about him, for
they were very greatly moved [or pleased] by hearing his words, Herod,
who feared lest the great influence John had over the people might put it
into his power and inclination to raise a rebellion, (for they seemed ready
to do any thing he should advise,) thought it best, by putting him to death,
to  prevent  any  mischief  he  might  cause,  and  not  bring  himself  into
difficulties, by sparing a man who might make him repent of it when it would
be too late. Accordingly he was sent a prisoner, out of Herod’s suspicious
temper, to Macherus, the castle I before mentioned, and was there put to
death. Now the Jews had an opinion that the destruction of this army was
sent as a punishment upon Herod, and a mark of God’s displeasure to him.


JESUS † The Complete Biography
Mary before the birth of Jesus
The Protevangelium of James40 contains mostly stories about Mary
prior to the birth of Jesus.  It begins with her birth, to Ioacim and Anna:
I. 1.  In the histories of the twelve tribes of Israel it is written that there was
one Ioacim, exceeding rich: and he offered his gifts twofold, saying: That
which is of my superfluity shall be for the whole people, and that which is
for my forgiveness shall be for tile Lord, for a propitiation unto me.  2. Now
the great day of the Lord drew nigh and the children of Israel offered their
gifts. And Reuben stood over against him saying: It is not lawful for thee to
offer thy gifts first,-forasmuch as thou hast gotten no seed in Israel. 3.
And Ioacim was sore grieved, and went unto the record of the twelve tribes
of the people, saying: I will look upon the record of the twelve tribes of
Israel, whether I only have not gotten seed in Israel. And he searched, and
found concerning all the righteous that they had raised up seed in Israel.
And he remembered the patriarch Abraham, how in the last days God gave
him a son, even Isaac. 4. And Ioacim was sore grieved, and showed not
himself to his wife, but betook himself into the wilderness, and pitched his
tent there, and fasted forty days and forty nights, saying within himself: I
will not go down either for meat or for drink until the Lord my God visit me,
and my prayer shall be unto me meat and drink.
II.1. Now his wife Anna lamented with two lamentations, and bewailed herself
with two bewailings, saying: I will bewail my widowhood, and I will bewail my
childlessness.  2. And the great day of the Lord drew nigh, and Judith her
handmaid said unto !;er: How long humblest thou thy soul? The great day
of the Lord hath come, and it is not lawful for thee to mourn: but take this
headband, which the mistress of my work gave me, and it is not lawful for
me to put it on, forasmuch as I am an handmaid, and it hath a mark of
royalty. And Anna said: Get thee from me. Lo! I have done nothing (or I will
not do so) and the Lord hath greatly humbled me: peradventure one gave
it to thee in subtilty, and thou art come to make me partaker in thy sin. And
Judith said: How shall I curse thee, seeing the Lord hath shut up thy womb,
to give thee no fruit in Israel ?  3. And Anna was sore grieved [and mourned

JESUS † The Complete Biography
with a great mourning because she was reproached by all the tribes of
Israel. And coming to herself she said: What shall I do ? I will pray with
weeping unto the Lord my God that he visit me]. And she put off her
mourning garments and cleansed (or adorned) her head and put on her
bridal garments: and about the ninth hour she went down into the garden
to walk there. And she saw a laurel-tree and sat down underneath it and
besought the Lord saying: O God of our fathers, bless me, and hearken
unto my prayer, as thou didst bless the womb of Sarah, and gavest her a
son, even Isaac.
III. 1. And looking up to the heaven she espied a nest of sparrows in the
laurel-tree, and made a lamentation within herself, saying: Woe unto me,
who begat me ? And what womb brought me forth for I am become a curse
before the children of Israel, and I am reproached, and they have mocked
me forth out of the temple of the Lord? 2. Woe unto me, unto what am I
likened ? I am not likened unto the fowls of the heaven, for even the fowls
of the heaven are fruitful before thee, O Lord. Woe unto me, unto what am
I likened ? I am not likened unto the beasts of the earth, for even the
beasts of the earth are fruitful before thee, O Lord. Woe unto me, unto
what am I likened ? I am not likened unto these waters, for even these
waters are fruitful before thee, O Lord. 3. Woe unto me, unto what am I
likened ? I am not likened unto this earth, for even this earth bringeth forth
her fruits in due season and blesseth thee, O Lord.
IV. 1. And behold an angel of the Lord appeared, saying unto her: Anna,
Anna, the Lord hath hearkened unto thy prayer, and thou shalt conceive
and bear, and thy seed shall be spoken of in the whole world. And Anna
said: As the Lord my God liveth, if I bring forth either male or female, I will
bring it for a gift unto the Lord my God, and it shall be ministering unto him
all the days of its life.  2. And behold there came two messengers saying
unto her: Behold Ioacim thy husband cometh with his flocks: for an angel
of the Lord came down unto him saying: Ioacim, Ioacim, the Lord God hath
hearkened unto thy prayer. Get thee down hence, for behold thy wife
Anna hath conceived. 3. And Ioacim sat him down and called his herdsmen
saying: Bring me hither ten lambs without blemish and without spot, and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
they shall be for the Lord my God; and bring me twelve tender calves, and
they shall be for the priests and for the assembly of the elders; and an
hundred kids for the whole people.  4. And behold Ioacim came with his
flocks, and Anna stood at the gate and saw Ioacim coming, and ran and
hung upon his neck, saying: Now know I that the Lord God hath greatly
blessed me: for behold the widow is no more a widow, and she that was
childless shall conceive. And Ioacim rested the first day in his house.
V. 1.  And on the morrow he offered his gifts, saying in himself: If the Lord
God be reconciled unto me, the plate that is upon the forehead of the
priest will make it manifest unto me. And Ioacim offered his gifts and
looked earnestly upon the plate of the priest when he went up unto the
altar of tile Lord, and he saw no sin in himself. And Ioacim said: Now know I
that the Lord is become propitious unto me and hath forgiven all my sins.
And he went down from the temple of the Lord justified, and went unto his
house.  2. And her months were fulfilled, and in the ninth month Anna
brought forth. And she said unto the midwife: what have I brought forth ?
And she said: A female. And Anna said: My soul is magnified this day, and
she laid herself down. And when the days were fulfilled, Anna purified
herself and gave suck to the child and called her name Mary.
VI. 1.  And day by day the child waxed strong, and when she was six months
old her mother stood her upon the ground to try if she would stand; and
she walked seven steps and returned unto her bosom. And she caught her
up, saying: As the Lord my God liveth, thou shalt walk no more upon this
ground, until I bring thee into the temple of the Lord. And she made a
sanctuary in her bed chamber and suffered nothing common or unclean to
pass through it. And she called for the daughters of the Hebrews that
were undefiled, and they carried her hither and thither.  2. And the first
year of the child was fulfilled, and Ioacim made a great feast and bade the
priests and the scribes and the assembly of the elders and the whole
people of Israel. And Ioacim brought the child to the priests, and they
blessed her, saying: 0 God of our fathers, bless this child and give her a
name renowned for ever among all generations. And all the people said: So
be it, so be it. Amen. And he brought her to the high priests, and they

JESUS † The Complete Biography
blessed her, saying: 0 God of the high places, look upon this child, and
bless her with the last blessing which hath no successor.  3. And her mother
caught her up into the sanctuary of her bed chamber and gave her suck.
And Anna made a song unto the Lord God, saying:
I will sing an hymn unto the Lord my God, because he hath visited me and
taken away from me the reproach of mine enemies, and the Lord hath given
me a fruit of his righteousness, single and manifold before him. Who shall
declare  unto  the  sons  of  Reuben  that  Anna  giveth  suck  ?  Hearken,
hearken, ye twelve tribes of Israel, that Anna giveth suck. And she laid the
child to rest in the bed chamber of her sanctuary, and went forth and
ministered unto them. And when the feast was ended, they gat them down
rejoicing, and glorifying the God of Israel.
VII. 1. And unto the child her months were added: and the child became two
years old. And Ioacim said: Let us bring her up to the temple of the Lord
that we may pay the promise which we promised; lest the Lord require it of
us (lit. send unto us), and our gift become unacceptable. And Anna said:
Let us wait until the third year, that the child may not long after her father
or mother. And Ioacim said: Let us wait.  2. And the child became three
years old, and Ioacim said: Call for the daughters of the Hebrews that are
undefiled, and let them take every one a lamp, and let them be burning, that
the child turn not backward and her heart be taken captive away from the
temple of the Lord. And they did so until they were gone up into the
temple of the Lord.  And the priest received her and kissed her and
blessed  her  and  said:  The  Lord  hath  magnified  thy  name  among  all
generations: in thee in the latter days shall the Lord make manifest his
redemption unto the children of Israel. And he made her to sit upon the
third step of the altar. And the Lord put grace upon her and she danced
with her feet and all tile house of Israel loved her.
VIII. 1. And her parents gat them down marveling, and praising the Lord God
because tile child was not turned away backward.  And Mary was in the
temple of the Lord as a dove that is nurtured: and she received food from
the hand of an angel.  2. And when she was twelve years old, there was a

JESUS † The Complete Biography
council of the priests, saying: Behold Mary is become twelve years old in
the temple of the Lord. What then shall we do with her lest she pollute the
sanctuary of the Lord. And they said unto the high priest: Thou standest
over  the  altar  of  the  Lord.  Enter  in  and  pray  concerning  her:  And
whatsoever the Lord shall reveal to thee, that let us do.  3. And the high
priest took the vestment with the twelve bells and went in unto the Holy of
Holies and prayed concerning her. And lo, an angel of tile Lord appeared
saying unto him: Zacharias, Zacharias~ go forth and assemble them that
are widowers of the people, and let them bring every man a rod, and to
whomsoever the Lord shall show a sign, his wife shall she be. And the
heralds went forth over all the country round about Judaea, and the
trumpet of the Lord sounded, and all men ran thereto.
IX. 1. And Joseph cast down his adze and ran to meet them, and when they
were gathered together they went to the high priest and took their rods
with them. And he took the rods of them all and went into the temple and
prayed. And when he had finished the prayer he took the rods and went
forth and gave them back to them: and there was no sign upon them. But
Joseph received the last rod: and 1o, a dove came forth of the rod and flew
upon the bead of Joseph. And the priest said unto Joseph: Unto thee
hath it fallen to take the virgin of the Lord and keep her for thyself. 2 And
Joseph refused, saying: I have sons, and I am an old man, but she is a girl:
lest I became a laughing-stock to the children of Israel. And the priest said
unto Joseph: Year the Lord thy God, and remember what things God did
unto Dathan and Abiram and Korah, how the earth clave and they were
swallowed up because of their gainsaying. And now fear thou, Joseph, lest
it be so in thine house. And Joseph was afraid, and took her to keep her
for himself. And Joseph said unto Mary: Lo, I have received thee out of
the temple of the Lord: and now do I leave thee in my house, and I go away
to build my buildings and I will come again unto thee. The Lord shall watch
over thee.
X. 1. Now there was a council of the priests, and they said: Let us make a
veil for the temple of the Lord. And the priest said: Call unto me pure
virgins of the tribe of David. And the officers departed and sought and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
found seven virgins. And the priests called to mind the child Mary, that she
was of the tribe of avid and was undefiled before God: and the officers
went and fetched her. And they brought them into the temple of the Lord,
and the priest said: Cast me lots, which of you shah weave the gold and the
undefiled (the white) and tile fine linen and the silk and the hyacinthine,
and the scarlet and the true purple. And the lot of the true purple and the
scarlet fell unto Mary, and she took them and went unto her house.  [And
at that season Zacharias became dumb, and Samuel was in his stead until
the time when Zacharias spake again.]But Mary took the scarlet and
began to spin it.
XL 1. And she took the pitcher and went forth to fill it with water: and lo a
voice saying: Hail, thou that art highly favoured; the Lord is with thee:
blessed art thou among women.  And she looked about her upon the right
hand and upon the left, to see whence this voice should be: and being filled
with trembling she~ went to her house and set down the pitcher, and took
the purple and sat down upon her seat and drew out the thread.  2. And
behold an angel of the Lord stood before her saying: Fear not, Mary, for
thou hast found grace before the Lord of  all  things,  and thou  shalt
conceive of his word. And she, when she heard it, questioned in herself,
saying: Shall I verily conceive of the living God, and bring forth after the
manner of all women ? And the angel of the Lord said: Not so, Mary, for a
power of the Lord shall overshadow thee: wherefore also that holy thing
which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of the Highest. And
thou shalt call his name Jesus: for he shall save his people from their sins.
And Mary said: Behold the handmaid of the Lord is before him: be it unto
me according to thy word.
XII 1. And she made the purple and the scarlet and brought them unto the
priest. And the priest blessed her and said: Mary, the Lord God hath
magnified thy name, and thou shalt be blessed among all generations of the
earth. 2. And Mary rejoiced and went away unto Elizabeth her kinswoman:
and she knocked at the door. And Elizabeth when she heard it cast down
the scarlet (al. the wool) and ran to the door and opened it, and when she
saw Mary she blessed her and said: Whence is this to me that the mother of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
my Lord should come unto me ? for behold that which is in me leaped and
blessed thee. And Mary forgat the mysteries which Gabriel the archangel
had told her, and she looked up unto the heaven and said: Who am I, Lord,
that all the generations of the earth do bless me ? 8 And she abode three
months with Elizabeth, and day by day her womb grew: and Mary was
afraid and departed unto her house and hid herself from the children of
Israel. Now she was sixteen years old when these mysteries came to pass.
XIII. 1. Now it was the sixth month with her, and behold Joseph came from
his building, and he entered into his house and found her great with child.
And  he  smote  his  face,  and  cast  himself  down  upon  the  ground  on
sackcloth and wept bitterly, saying: With what countenance shall I look
unto the Lord my God? and what prayer shall I make concerning this
maiden? for I received her out of the temple of the Lord my God a virgin,
and have not kept her safe. Who is he that hath ensnared me ? Who hath
done this evil in mine house and hath defiled the virgin ? Is not the story of
Adam repeated in me ? for as at the hour of his giving thanks the serpent
came and found Eve alone and deceived her, so hath it befallen me also. 2.
And Joseph arose from off the sackcloth and called Mary and said unto
her O thou that wast cared for by God, why hast thou done this ? thou
hast forgotten the Lord thy God. Why hast thou humbled thy soul, thou
that wast nourished up in the Holy of Holies and didst receive food at the
hand of an angel? 3. But she wept bitterly, saying: I am pure and I know not
a man. And Joseph said unto her: Whence then is that which is in thy
womb ? and she said: As the Lord my God liveth, I know not whence it is
come unto me.
XIV. 1. And Joseph was sore afraid and ceased from speaking unto her (or
left her alone), and pondered what he should do with her. And Joseph
said: If I hide her sin, I shall be found fighting against the law of the Lord:
and if I manifest her unto the children of Israel, I fear lest that which is in
her be the seed of an angel, and I shall be found delivering up innocent
blood to the judgement of death. What then shall I do? I will let her go from
me privily. And the night came upon him. 2. And behold an angel of the
Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying: Fear not this child, for that

JESUS † The Complete Biography
which is in her is of the Holy Ghost, and she shall bear a son and thou shalt
call his name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their sins. And
Joseph arose from sleep and glorified the God of Israel which had shown
this favour unto her: and he watched over her.
XV. 1. Now Annas the scribe came unto him and said to him: Wherefore
didst thou not appear in our assembly ? and Joseph said unto him: I was
weary with the journey, and I rested the first day. And Annas turned him
about and saw Mary great with child. 2 And he went hastily to the priest
and said unto him: Joseph, to whom thou bearest witness [that he is
righteous] hath sinned grievously. And the priest said: Wherein ? And he
said: The virgin whom he received out of the temple of the Lord, he hath
defiled her, and married her by stealth (lit. stolen her marriage), and hath
not declared it to the children of Israel. And the priest answered and said:
Hath Joseph done this ? And Annas the scribe said: Send officers, and
thou shalt find the virgin great with child. And the officers went and found
as he had said, and they brought her together with Joseph unto the place
of judgement. 3. And the priest said: Mary, wherefore hast thou done this,
and wherefore hast thou humbled thy soul and forgotten the Lord thy
God, thou that wast nurtured in the Holy of Holies and didst receive food
at the hand of an angel and didst hear the hymns and didst dance before
the Lord, wherefore hast thou done this?  But she wept bitterly, saying: As
the Lord my God liveth I am pure before him and I know not a man. 4. And
the priest said unto Joseph: Wherefore hast thou done this ? And Joseph
said: As the Lord my God liveth I am pure as concerning her. And the priest
said: Bear no false witness but speak the truth: thou hast married her by
stealth and hast not declared it unto the children of Israel, and hast not
bowed thine head under the mighty hand that thy seed should be blessed.
And Joseph held his peace.
XVI. 1. And the priest said: Restore the virgin whom thou didst receive out
of the temple of the Lord. And Joseph was full of weeping. And the priest
said: I will give you to drink of the water of the conviction of the Lord, and
it will make manifest your sins before your eyes. 2. And the priest took
thereof and made Joseph drink and sent him into the hill-country. And he

JESUS † The Complete Biography
returned whole.  He made Mary also drink and sent her into the hill-
country. And she returned whole. And all the people marvelled, because
sin appeared not in them. 3. And the priest said: If the Lord God hath not
made your sin manifest, neither do I condemn you. And he let them go. And
Joseph took Mary and departed unto his house rejoicing, and glorifying
the God of Israel.
XVII. 1. Now there went out a decree from Augustus the king that all that
were in Bethlehem of Judaea should be recorded. And Joseph said: I will
record my sons: but this child, what shall I do with her? how shall I record
her? as my wife? nay, I am ashamed. Or as my daughter? but all the
children of Israel know that she is not my daughter. This day of the Lord
shall do as the Lord willeth. 2. And he saddled the she-ass, and set her
upon it, and his son led it and Joseph followed after. And they drew near
(unto Bethlehem) within three miles: and Joseph turned himself about and
saw her of a sad countenance and said within himself: Peradventure that
which is within her paineth her. And again Joseph turned himself about and
saw her laughing, and said unto her: Mary, what aileth thee that I see thy
face at one time laughing and at another time sad? And Mary said unto
Joseph: It is because I behold two peoples with mine eyes, the one weeping
and lamenting and the other rejoicing and exulting.  3. And they came to
the midst of the way, and Mary said unto him: Take me down from the ass,
for that which is within me presseth me, to come forth. And he took her
down from the ass and said unto her: Whither shall I take thee to hide thy
shame? for the place is desert.
XVIII. 1. And he found a cave there and brought her into it, and set his sons
by her: and he went forth and sought for a midwife of the Hebrews in the
country of Bethlehem.  2. Now I Joseph was walking, and I walked not. And
I looked up to the air and saw the air in amazement. And I looked up unto
the pole of the heaven and saw it standing still, and the fowls of the heaven
without motion. And I looked upon the earth and saw a dish set, and
workmen lying by it, and their hands were in the dish: and they that were
chewing chewed not, and they that were lifting the food lifted it not, and
they that put it to their mouth put it not thereto, but the faces of all of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
them were looking upward. And behold there were sheep being driven, and
they went not forward but stood still; and the shepherd lifted his hand to
smite them with his staff, and his hand remained up. And I looked upon the
stream of the river and saw the mouths of the kids upon the water and they
drank not. And of a sudden all things moved onward in their course.
XIX. 1. And behold a woman coming down from the hill country, and she
said to me: Man, whither goest thou ? And I said: I seek a midwife of the
Hebrews. And she answered and said unto me: Art thou of Israel ? And I
said unto her: Yea. And she said: And who is she that bringeth forth in the
cave ? And I said: She that is betrothed unto me. And she said to me: Is she
not thy wife? And I said to her: It is Mary that was nurtured up in the
temple of the Lord: and I received her to wife by lot: and she is not my wife,
but she hath conception by the Holy Ghost.  And the midwife said unto
him: Is this the truth? And Joseph said unto her: Come hither and see. And
the midwife went with him.  2. And they stood in the place of the cave: and
behold a bright cloud overshadowing the cave. And the midwife said: My
soul is magnified this day, because mine eyes have seen marvellous things:
for salvation is born unto Israel. And immediately the cloud withdrew itself
out of the cave, and a great light appeared in the cave so that our eyes
could not endure it. And by little and little that light withdrew itself until the
young child appeared: and it went and took the breast of its mother Mary.
And the midwife cried aloud and said: Great unto me to-day is this day, in
that ! have seen this new sight. 3. And the midwife went forth of the cave
and Salome met her. And she said to her: Salome, Salome, a new sight have
I to tell thee. A virgin hath brought forth, which her nature alloweth not.
And Salome said: As the Lord my God liveth, if I make not trial and prove
her nature I will not believe that a virgin hath brought forth.
XX. 1. And the midwife went in and said unto Mary: Order thyself, for there
is no small contention arisen concerning thee. Arid Salome made trial and
cried out and said: Woe unto mine iniquity and mine unbelief, because I
have tempted the living God, and lo, my hand falleth away from me in fire.
And she bowed her knees unto the Lord, saying: O God of my fathers,
remember that I am the seed of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob: make me

JESUS † The Complete Biography
not a public example unto the children of Israel, but restore me unto the
poor, for thou knowest, Lord, that in thy name did I perform my cures, and
did receive my hire of thee. 3 And lo, an angel of the Lord appeared,
saying unto her: Salome, Salome, the Lord hath hearkened to thee: bring
thine hand near unto the young child and take him up, and there shall be
unto thee salvation and joy. 4 And Salome came near and took him up,
saying: I will do him worship, for a great king is born unto Israel. And
behold immediately Salome was healed: and she went forth of the cave
justified. And Io, a voice saying: Salome, Salome, tell none of the marvels
which thou hast seen, until the child enter into Jerusalem.
XXI 1. And behold, Joseph made him ready to go forth into Judaea. And
there came a great tumult in Bethlehem of Judaea; for there came wise
men, saying: Where is he that is born king of the Jews ? for we have seen
his star in the east and arc come to worship him. 2. And when Herod heard
it he was troubled and sent officers unto the wise men. And he sent for the
high priests and examined them, saying: How is it written concerning the
Christ, where he is born? They say unto him: In Bethlehem of Judaea: for
so it is written. And he let them go. And he examined the wise men, saying
unto them: What sign saw ye concerning the king that is born? And the wise
men said: We saw a very great star shining among those stars and dimming
them so that the stars appeared not: and thereby knew we that a king was
born unto Israel, and we came to worship him. And Herod said: Go and
seek for him, and if ye find him, tell me, that I also may come and worship
him. 3. And the wise men went forth. And lo, the star which they saw in the
east went before them until they entered into the cave: and it stood over
the head of the cave. And the wise men saw the young child with Mary, his
mother: and they brought out of their scrip gifts, gold, and frankincense
and myrrh. 4. And being warned by the angel that they should not enter
into Judaea, they went into their own country by another way.
XXII. 1. But when Herod perceived that he was mocked by the wise men, he
was wroth, and sent murderers, saying unto them: Slay the children from
two years old and under. 2. And when Mary heard that the children were
being slain, she was afraid, and took the young child and wrapped in

JESUS † The Complete Biography
swaddling clothes and laid him in an ox-manger.  3. But Elizabeth when she
heard that they sought for John, took him and went up into the hill-
country and looked about her where she should hide him: and there was
no hiding-place. And Elizabeth groaned and said with a loud voice: 0
mountain of God, receive thou a mother with a child. For Elizabeth was not
able to go up. And immediately the mountain clave asunder and took her
in. And there was a light shining alway for them: for an angel of the Lord
was with them, keeping watch over them.
XXIII. 1. Now Herod sought for John, and sent officers to Zacharias, saying:
Where hast thou hidden thy son? And he answered and said unto them: I
am a minister of God and attend continually upon the temple of the Lord: I
know not where my son is. 2. And the officers departed and told Herod all
these things. And Herod was wroth and said: His son is to be king over
Israel. And he sent unto him again, saying: Say the truth: where is thy son ?
for thou knowest that thy blood is under my hand. And the officers
departed and told him all these things. 3 And Zacharias said: I am a martyr
of God if thou sheddest my blood: for my spirit the Lord shah receive,
because thou sheddest innocent blood in the fore-court of the temple of
the Lord.  And about the dawning of the day Zacharias was slain. And the
children of Israel knew not that he was slain.
XXIV. 1. But the priests entered in at the hour of the salutation, and the
blessing of Zacharias met them not according to the manner. And the
priests stood waiting for Zacharias, to salute him with the prayer, and to
glorify the Most High. 2 But as he delayed to come, they were all afraid:
and one of them took courage and entered in: and he saw beside the altar
congealed blood: and a voice saying: Zacharias hath been slain, and his
blood shall not be wiped out until his avenger come. And when he heard
that word he was afraid, and went forth and told the priests. 3 And they
took courage and went in and saw that which was done: and the panels of
the temple did wail: and they rent their clothes from the top to the bottom.
And his body they found not, but his blood they found turned into stone.
And they feared, and went forth and told all the people that Zacharias was
slain. And all tile tribes of the people heard it, and they mourned for him

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and lamented him three days and three nights. And after the three days
the priests took counsel whom they should set in his stead: and the lot
came up upon Symeon. Now he it was which was warned by the Holy Ghost
that he should not see death until he should see the Christ in the flesh.
XXV. 1. Now I, James, which wrote this history in Jerusalem, when there
arose a tumult when Herod died, withdrew myself into the wilderness until
the tumult ceased in Jerusalem.  Glorifying the Lord God which gave me the
gift, and the wisdom to write this history.  2. And grace shall be with those
that fear our Lord Jesus Christ: to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.
The  Qur’an  tells  a  greatly  abbreviated  version  of  this  story  in
Suratu’l-‘Imran (III):
35. Behold! a woman of Imran said: "O my Lord! I do dedicate unto thee
what is in my womb for Thy special service, so accept this of me, for Thou
hearest and knowest all things."  36. When she was delivered, she said: "O
my Lord! behold! I am delivered of a female child!" And Allah knew best
what she brought forth -- "And nowise is the male like the female. I have
named her Mary, and I commend her and her offspring to Thy protection
from the Evil One, the Rejected."  37. Right graciously did her Lord accept
her: He made her grow in purity and beauty; to the care of Zakariya was
she assigned. Every time that he entered (her) chamber to see her, he
found her supplied with sustenance. He said: "O Mary! whence (comes)
this to you?" She said: "From Allah: for Allah provides sustenance to whom
He pleases, without measure."
The  Qur’an recounts some of this story of the early life of Mary,  the
Suratu Maryam (XIX):
16. Relate in the Book (the story of) Mary, when she withdrew from her
family to a place in the East. 17. She placed a screen (to screen herself)
from them: then We sent to her Our angel, and he appeared before her as
a man in all respects. 18. She said: "I seek refuge from thee to (Allah) Most
Gracious: (come not near) if thou dost fear Allah." 19. He said: "Nay, I am
only a messenger from thy Lord, (to announce) to thee the gift of a holy
son." 20. She said: "How shall I have a son, seeing that no man has touched

JESUS † The Complete Biography
me, and I am not unchaste?" 21. He said: "So (it will be): thy Lord saith,
'That is easy for Me: and (We wish) to appoint him as a Sign unto men and
a Mercy from Us': it is a matter (so) decreed." 22. So she conceived him,
and she retired with him to a remote place.
Joseph before the birth of Jesus
Joseph, the whom we may regard as the foster father, the adoptive father or
the stepfather of Jesus, was a descendant of King David through an illustrious
line of paternal forebears, according to the somewhat different genealogies
recorded in the Gospels of Matthew and Luke.  In addition to these two
genealogies, there are scattered references to Jesus being the “son of David”
in the Gospels of Mark, Matthew and Luke:
In the Gospel of Mark:
10:47 And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out,
and say, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. 10:48 And many
charged him that he should hold his peace: but he cried the more a great
deal, Thou son of David, have mercy on me.
In the Gospel of Matthew:
1:20 But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the LORD
appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to
take unto thee Mary thy wife: for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy
Ghost…
9:27 And when Jesus departed thence, two blind men followed him, crying,
and saying, Thou son of David, have mercy on us…
12:23 And all the people were amazed, and said, Is not this the son of David?...
15:22 And, behold, a woman of Canaan came out of the same coasts, and
cried unto him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, thou son of David; my
daughter is grievously vexed with a devil...
20:30 And, behold, two blind men sitting by the way side, when they heard
that Jesus passed by, cried out, saying, Have mercy on us, O Lord, thou son
of David...

JESUS † The Complete Biography
20:31 And the multitude rebuked them, because they should hold their peace:
but they cried the more, saying, Have mercy on us, O Lord, thou son of
David…
21:9 And the multitudes that went before, and that followed, cried, saying,
Hosanna to the son of David: Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the
Lord; Hosanna in the highest…
22:41 While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them, 22:42
Saying, What think ye of Christ? whose son is he? They say unto him, The
son of David.
In the Gospel of Luke:
1:27 To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of
David; and the virgin's name was Mary...
1:31 And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and
shalt call his name JESUS.  1:32 He shall be great, and shall be called the Son
of the Highest: and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father
David: 1:33 And he shall reign over the house of Jacob for ever; and of his
kingdom there shall be no end…
2:4 And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into
Judaea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem; (because he was
of the house and lineage of David…
18:38 And he cried, saying, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me.  18:39
And they which went before rebuked him, that he should hold his peace: but
he cried so much the more, Thou son of David, have mercy on me.
As for the two genealogies, the first is found in the Gospel of Matthew:
1:2 Abraham begat Isaac; and Isaac begat Jacob; and Jacob begat Judas and
his brethren; 1:3 And Judas begat Phares and Zara of Thamar; and Phares
begat Esrom; and Esrom begat Aram; 1:4 And Aram begat Aminadab; and
Aminadab begat Naasson; and Naasson begat Salmon; 1:5 And Salmon begat
Booz of Rachab; and Booz begat Obed of Ruth; and Obed begat Jesse; 1:6
And Jesse begat David the king; and David the king begat Solomon of her
that had been the wife of Urias; 1:7 And Solomon begat Roboam; and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Roboam begat Abia; and Abia begat Asa; 1:8 And Asa begat Josaphat; and
Josaphat  begat  Joram;  and  Joram  begat  Ozias;  1:9  And  Ozias  begat
Joatham; and Joatham begat Achaz; and Achaz begat Ezekias; 1:10 And
Ezekias begat Manasses; and Manasses begat Amon; and Amon begat
Josias; 1:11 And Josias begat Jechonias and his brethren, about the time they
were carried away to Babylon: 1:12 And after they were brought to Babylon,
Jechonias begat Salathiel; and Salathiel begat Zorobabel; 1:13 And Zorobabel
begat Abiud; and Abiud begat Eliakim; and Eliakim begat Azor; 1:14 And Azor
begat Sadoc; and Sadoc begat Achim; and Achim begat Eliud; 1:15 And Eliud
begat Eleazar; and Eleazar begat Matthan; and Matthan begat Jacob; 1:16
And Jacob begat Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus,
who is called Christ.
The second is recorded in the Gospel of Luke:
3:23 And Jesus himself began to be about thirty years of age41, being (as was
supposed) the son of Joseph, which was the son of Heli, 3:24 Which was the
son of Matthat, which was the son of Levi, which was the son of Melchi, which
was the son of Janna, which was the son of Joseph, 3:25 Which was the son
of Mattathias, which was the son of Amos, which was the son of Naum, which
was the son of Esli, which was the son of Nagge, 3:26 Which was the son of
Maath, which was the son of Mattathias, which was the son of Semei, which
was the son of Joseph, which was the son of Juda, 3:27 Which was the son of
Joanna, which was the son of Rhesa, which was the son of Zorobabel, which
was the son of Salathiel, which was the son of Neri, 3:28 Which was the son of
Melchi, which was the son of Addi, which was the son of Cosam, which was
the son of Elmodam, which was the son of Er, 3:29 Which was the son of Jose,
which was the son of Eliezer, which was the son of Jorim, which was the son
of Matthat, which was the son of Levi, 3:30 Which was the son of Simeon,
which was the son of Juda, which was the son of Joseph, which was the son
of Jonan, which was the son of Eliakim, 3:31 Which was the son of Melea,
which was the son of Menan, which was the son of Mattatha, which was the
son of Nathan, which was the son of David, 3:32 Which was the son of Jesse,
which was the son of Obed, which was the son of Booz, which was the son of
Salmon, which was the son of Naasson, 3:33 Which was the son of Aminadab,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
which was the son of Aram, which was the son of Esrom, which was the son of
Phares, which was the son of Juda, 3:34 Which was the son of Jacob, which
was the son of Isaac, which was the son of Abraham, which was the son of
Thara, which was the son of Nachor, 3:35 Which was the son of Saruch, which
was the son of Ragau, which was the son of Phalec, which was the son of
Heber, which was the son of Sala, 3:36 Which was the son of Cainan, which
was the son of Arphaxad, which was the son of Sem, which was the son of
Noe, which was the son of Lamech, 3:37 Which was the son of Mathusala,
which was the son of Enoch, which was the son of Jared, which was the son
of Maleleel, which was the son of Cainan, 3:38 Which was the son of Enos,
which was the son of Seth, which was the son of Adam, which was the son of
God.
These two genealogies do not match up…they do not diverge once or twice,
but all the way back to the progeny of King David.  The Gospel of Luke
indicates that Joseph was descended from Nathan, the son of David, while
the Gospel of Matthew indicates that Joseph was descended from Solomon,
the son of David.  The First Book of Chronicles refers to both sons of
David  as  having  been  born  in  Jerusalem  of  Bathshua  [Bathsheva]  the
daughter of Ammiel:
3:5 And these were born unto him in Jerusalem; Shimea, and Shobab, and
Nathan, and Solomon, four, of Bathshua the daughter of Ammiel: 3:6 Ibhar
also, and Elishama, and Eliphelet, 3:7 And Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,
3:8 And Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine…
14:4 Now these are the names of his children which he had in Jerusalem;
Shammua, and Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon, 14:5 And Ibhar, and Elishua,
and Elpalet, 14:6 And Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia, 14:7 And Elishama,
and Beeliada, and Eliphalet.
The two lineages indicate that genealogies at this time of Israel’s development
do not seem to have been particularly consistent or reliable.   Nor did
inconsistencies  seem  to  trouble  the  early  Christians,  for  had  they  been
troubling, there is no doubt that two conflicting genealogies would not have
been preserved in the canon.  Joseph was regarded, whether descended from
Nathan or from Solomon, to be from the house of David, and this is what
mattered to the authors of the Gospels.  While from Mishnaic period, circa
200 CE, Jews seem to have reckoned their Jewish heritage matrilinealy,
through the maternal line, nevertheless there does not seem to be any Biblical

JESUS † The Complete Biography
evidence  that  the  children  of  Boaz,  Judah,  Joseph,  Moses,  David  or
Solomon were not accounted as Jews, even though each of these noble
patriarchs  married  one  or  more  non-Jewish  women.   However,  the
genealogies in the Gospels of Matthew and Luke do not exist to establish
the  Jewishness  of  Jesus,  because  whether  by  Biblical  or  Mishnaic
standards he would be accounted as Jewish, as both his father and his
mother were described as Jews.  The genealogies are testimonies to an
attempt to establish Jesus as related by bloodline to the house of David, so
that it could be claimed without contest that he was the Mashiach ben
David, the Messiah from the sons of King David.  A literal, bodily, genetic
relationship was important to Jews,  and  would be important to non-
Jewish Christians as well as the interpretation of the Gospels became
increasingly literal as the generations ensued and the distance from the
events described in the Gospels seemed to require that they become more
acceptable, more convincing, more obvious.  The material has always and
invariably been more acceptable, more convincing, more obvious to the
generality of mankind, and so every trace of physicality was cherished.
This conversion of the spiritual into the material reflects the opposite
impulse as seems to have absorbed the immediate successors to the Gospel
accounts, who, in trying to make them more acceptable, more convincing,
more obvious to the Platonists and Pythagoreans of their time generated
spiritualistic interpretations of the Gospels which denied the physicality of
Jesus and the value of physicality in absolute terms.   So both extremes
were present during and immediately following the actual life of Jesus.
The History of Joseph the Carpenter42 tells the story of Joseph, the
foster father of Jesus in greater detail than any other text:
2. There was a man whose name was Joseph, sprung from a family of
Bethlehem, a town of Judah, and the city of King David. This same man,
being well furnished with wisdom and learning, was made a priest in the
temple of the Lord. He was, besides. skilful in his trade, which was that of a
carpenter; and after the manner of all men, he married a wife. Moreover, he
begot  for  himself  sons  and  daughters,  four  sons,  namely,  and  two
daughters. Now these are their names--Judas, Justus, James, and Simon.
The names of the two daughters were Assia and Lydia. At length the wife
of righteous Joseph, a woman intent on the divine glory in all her works,
departed this life. But Joseph, that righteous man, my father after the
flesh, and the spouse of my mother Mary, went away with his sons to his
trade, practicing the art of a carpenter.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
3.  Now  when  righteous  Joseph  became  a  widower,  my  mother  Mary,
blessed, holy, and pure, was already twelve years old. For her parents
offered her in the temple when she was three years of age, and she
remained in the temple of the Lord nine years. Then when the priests saw
that the virgin, holy and God-fearing, was growing up, they spoke to each
other, saying: Let us search out a man, righteous and pious, to whom Mary
may be entrusted until the time of her marriage; lest, if she remain in the
temple, it happen to her as is wont to happen to women, and lest on that
account we sin, and God be angry with us.
4. Therefore they immediately sent out, and assembled twelve old men of
the tribe of Judah. And they wrote down the names of the twelve tribes of
Israel. And the lot fell upon the pious old man, righteous Joseph. Then the
priests answered, and said to my blessed mother: Go with Joseph, and be
with him till the time of your marriage. Righteous Joseph therefore received
my mother, and led her away to his own house. And Mary found James the
Less in his father's house, broken-hearted and sad on account of the loss
of his mother, and she brought him up. Hence Mary was called the mother
of James.  Thereafter Joseph left her at home, and went away to the shop
where he wrought at his trade of a carpenter. And after the holy virgin had
spent two years in his house her age was exactly fourteen years, including
the time at which he received her.
5. And I chose her of my own will, with the concurrence of my Father, and
the counsel of the Holy Spirit. And I was made flesh of her, by a mystery
which transcends the grasp of created reason. And three months after her
conception the righteous man Joseph returned from the place where he
worked at his trade; and when he found my virgin mother pregnant, he was
greatly perplexed, and thought of sending her away secretly. But from
fear, and sorrow, and the anguish of his heart, he could endure neither to
eat nor drink that day.
6. But at mid-day there appeared to him in a dream the prince of the
angels, the holy Gabriel, furnished with a command from my Father; and he
said to him: Joseph, son of David, fear not to take Mary as thy wife: for

JESUS † The Complete Biography
she has conceived of the Holy Spirit; and she will bring forth a son, whose
name shall be called Jesus. He it is who shall rule all nations with a rod of
iron.  Having thus spoken, the angel departed from him. And Joseph rose
from his sleep, and did as the angel of the Lord had said to him; and Mary
abode with him.
The true father of Jesus was not Joseph, and his forefathers were not the
patriarch Abraham or the king David.  His true father, as he himself said so
often,was God, the Father of all.  Likewise, the father of Apollonius of
Tyana was, according to legend, none other than a god43:
His  father  was  of  the  same  name  [i.e.,  Apollonius],  and  the  family
descended from the first settlers. It excelled in wealth the surrounding
families, though the district is a rich one…Now there is near Tyana a well
sacred to Zeus, the god of paths, so they say, and they call it the well of
Asbama. Here a spring rises cold, but bubbles up like a boiling cauldron.
This water is favorable and sweet to those who keep their paths, but to
perjurers it brings hot-footed justice; for it attacks their eyes and hands
and feet, and they fall the prey of dropsy and wasting disease; and they
are not even able to go away, but are held on the spot and bemoan
themselves at the edge of the spring, acknowledging their perjuries.
The people of the country, then, say that Apollonius was the son of this
Zeus, but the sage called himself the son of Apollonius.
As this is our first encounter with Apollonius, a short biography will be
cited here44:
Apollonius of Tyana (Ancient Greek: Ἀπολλώνιος ὁ Τυανεύς; c. 15 – c. 100
AD[2]),  sometimes  also  called  Apollonios  of  Tyana,  was  a  Greek
Neopythagorean philosopher from  the  town  of  Tyana in  the  Roman
province of  Cappadocia in  Asia Minor. Being a 1st-century orator and
philosopher around the time of  Christ, he was compared with Jesus of
Nazareth by Christians in the 4th century[3] and by writers in modern
times…By far the most detailed source is the Life of Apollonius of Tyana, a
lengthy, novelistic biography written by the  sophist Philostratus at the
request of empress Julia Domna. She died in 217 AD,[8] and he completed it
after her death, probably in the 220s or 230s AD…Sossianus Hierocles

JESUS † The Complete Biography
argued in the 3rd century that the doctrines and the life of Apollonius were
more valuable than those of Christ, a viewpoint reportedly held by both
Voltaire and  Charles Blount during the  Age of Enlightenment.[19] …As
James Francis put it, "the most that can be said ... is that Apollonius
appears to have been a wandering ascetic/philosopher/wonderworker of a
type common to the eastern part of the early empire."[23] What we can
safely  assume  is  that  he  was  indeed  a  Pythagorean  and  as  such,  in
conformity with the Pythagorean tradition, opposed animal sacrifice, and
lived on a frugal, strictly vegetarian diet.[24]…As for his philosophical
convictions, we have an interesting, probably authentic fragment of one of
his writings (On sacrifices) where he expresses his view that God, who is
the most beautiful being, cannot be influenced by prayers or sacrifices and
has no wish to be worshipped by humans, but can be reached by a spiritual
procedure involving nous (intellect), because he himself is pure nous and
nous is also the greatest faculty of humankind.[26]…Philostratus implies
on one occasion that Apollonius had extra-sensory perception (Book VIII,
Chapter XXVI). When emperor Domitian was murdered on September 18,
96 AD, Apollonius was said to have witnessed the event in Ephesus "about
midday" on the day it happened in Rome, and told those present "Take
heart,  gentlemen,  for  the  tyrant  has  been  slain  this  day...".  Both
Philostratus  and  renowned  historian  Cassius  Dio report  this  incident,
probably on the basis of an oral tradition.  Both state that the philosopher
welcomed the deed as a praiseworthy tyrannicide.[27]
Virgin Birth
Was Mary a virgin when she became pregnant with Jesus?   Yes, according
to the Gospel of Matthew:
1:18 Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise: When as his mother Mary
was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with
child of the Holy Ghost.
Yes, according to the Gospel of Luke:
1:34 Then said Mary unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a
man? 1:35 And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall
come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee:
therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the
Son of God.
While  the  virgin  birth  of  Jesus  was  only  important  enough  to  early
Christians that two out of four  of the  canonical  Gospels  refer  to  that

JESUS † The Complete Biography
occurrence, there are in fact three references to the virgin birth in three
separate Surihs of the Qur’an (19:19-22; 21:91; 66:12):
19. He said: "Nay, I am only a messenger from thy Lord, (to announce) to
thee the gift of a holy son."  20. She said: "How shall I have a son, seeing
that no man has touched me, and I am not unchaste?" 21. He said: "So (it will
be): thy Lord saith, 'That is easy for Me: and (We wish) to appoint him as a
Sign unto men and a Mercy from Us': it is a matter (so) decreed." 22. So
she conceived him, and she retired with him to a remote place…
91. And (remember) her who guarded her chastity: We breathed into her of
Our Spirit, and We made her and her son a Sign for all peoples…
12. And Mary the daughter of 'Imran, who guarded her chastity; and We
breathed into her (body) of Our spirit; and she testified to the truth of the
words of her Lord and of His Revelations, and was one of the devout
(Servants).
This indicates that the Christians who informed Muhammad about Jesus
were fully informed on this question, and it was important both to them and
apparently  to  Muhammad  to  have  been  cited  multiple  times  in  his
adaptation of the Judeo-Christian heritage for the Arab people.
Let us consider this question in the context of Biblical literature as a whole.
Adam had neither father nor mother45.  He was the creation of God alone.
Melchizedek was also “Without father, without mother, without genealogy,
having neither beginning of days nor end of life, but made like the Son of
God, he remains a priest perpetually.”46   Lest we be unsure of his meaning,
the author writes, “For this Melchizedek, king of Salem, priest of the Most
High, who met Abraham as he was returning from the slaughter of the kings
and blessed him, to whom also Abraham apportioned a tenth part of all the
spoils, was first of all, by the translation of his name, king of righteousness,
and then also king of Salem, which is king of peace.”47
Isaac was born to his mother and father when the former was 90 and the
latter was 100 years of age.48  While the Biblical text does not indicate
whether or not there were sexual relations involved, Abraham was plainly
incredulous that his wife Sarah, barren for so long, could give birth to any
child.  He was assured by God that nothing is too difficult for Him.49
Rebecca, wife of Isaac was barren and her husband prayed to God for a
child, and his prayer was answered with twins, whom they named Esau and
Jacob.50  Rachel, the wife of Jacob, was also barren and prayed for a child,
and God hearkened to her and she bore Joseph.51  Consider then that this

JESUS † The Complete Biography
entire sequence of births was miraculous – that of Isaac, that of his son
Jacob, that of his grandson Joseph.
Manoah’s wife, from Zorah, of the tribe of Dan, was barren and she was
promised a child by an angel – he was named Samson and the Holy Spirit
moved upon him.52   Hannah, the wife of Elkanah son of Jeroham, from
Ramathaim, a Zuphite from the hill country of Ephraim, was barren and she
prayed for a child and was blessed by Eli the priest and then she conceived
Samuel  the  prophet.53  It  is  specifically  written  that  she  lay  with  her
husband54,  but  nonetheless  this  was  a  miraculous  birth.   All  of  these
miraculous births were recounted in the Tanakh, in the Hebrew Scriptures.
The Book of Isaiah (7:14) is therefore not stating anything that Jews were
unacquainted with when it reads, “Behold a virgin55 shall conceive, and bear
a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel”—there had already been virgins or
barren women who had borne sons, like Isaac, Jacob, Samson and Samuel—
all holy men of God.
In the Protoevangelium of James we read an account of Mary, the mother of
Jesus being born to the aged and barren Anna, wife of Joachim, by virtue of
divine intervention.  In the Gospel of Luke we encounter John (called the
Baptist), who was born to the aged and barren Elizabeth (Elisheva) and her
aged husband Zechariah after they prayed to God for a child and were
visited by an angel announcing his birth.  Hence, immediately preceding the
miraculous birth of Jesus there is the miraculous birth of his relation, John.
So much for Biblical births of miraculous nature.  It has been discovered by
numerous students of comparative religion, that the myths and legends of
numerous cultures are replete with references to miraculous, to virgin
births.  Closest  geographically  and  historically  to  Israel  and  to  Jewish
tradition are Egypt and Greece.  In ancient Egyptian myth, Horus was said
to be the offspring of the virgin Isis, and Osiris of the virgin Ceres.   The
Egyptian Bacchus is said to have been born of a virgin named Semele, and
the Greek Bacchus is reported to have born of the virgin Minerva.  Other
virgin births reported in Greek myth include Adonis, Alcides, Dionysus,
Hercules,  Hermes,  Horace,  Jason,  Perseus,  Theseus,  Zunis,  and  a
contemporary of Jesus, Apollonius of Tyana.  Plato and Pythagoras were
both reported to have been born of virgin mothers.  In the Middle East,
Attis, Mithras, Mot-Aleyin, Tammuz and Zoroaster were accounted the
issue of virgins, and in the Far East there are accounts of Bali, Buddha,
Chang-Ti, Indra, Joa, Krishna, Mahavira, Sakia, Salivahana, Tien, Yu
being likewise conceived.  In the myths of cultures far distant from the
land of Israel, and which were most likely unknown to Jews at the time of
Jesus, there are also favorite sons who are counted as the issue of virgin
mothers,  including  Crite,  Deganawidah,  Hesus/Hu,  Huitzilopochtli,
Hunahpu, Merlin the magician, Montezuma (the Pueblo not the Aztec),
Odin,  Quetzalcoatl,  Taut,  Wittoba,  Xamolxis,  Xbalanque,  and  Zoar.
Certainly all of the cultures associated with these accounts regarded virgin
birth as miraculous and as a sign of divine favor.  While those familiar

JESUS † The Complete Biography
with one but not any other of these accounts may well have assumed that
virgin birth was peculiar to one person in all of history, certainly this was
neither the assumption of the Jew, well schooled in the stories of the
Bible, nor the assumption of the Greek, brought up in the legends of his
ancient people.
That Jesus did not regard his own conception and birth as unique is
indicated by his pointing to something altogether different from this event
as the “one sign” that would be given of his divine authority.  In the Gospel
of Matthew (12:38-12:40): “Then certain of the scribes and of the Pharisees
answered, saying, Master, we would see a sign from thee.  But he answered
and said unto them, An evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign;
and there shall no sign be given to it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas:
For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale's belly; so shall
the Son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.”
This same sign is cited in the Gospel of John (2:18-20), and the Gospel of
Luke (11:29-30).   In the Gospel of Mark (8:11-12), Jesus refuses to give a
sign, saying “Why doth this generation seek after a sign? verily I say unto
you,  There  shall  no  sign  be  given  unto  this  generation.”   This  is  an
important avowal, because it cancels out the marshalling of multiple signs
from the Gospels which has preoccupied Christian apologists seeking to
demonstrate and prove the truth of the mission of Jesus.  It specifically
cancels out the virgin birth as a sign of his divine election, setting him
apart from all other sons of God.   Nonetheless, the Gospels of Mark and
Matthew attest to the virgin birth of Jesus, and the Qur’an also refers to
the chastity of Mary  (3:47, 19:20, 21:90) and to her becoming pregnant
through the Holy Spirit (21:91, 66:12) and the Will of God (3:47, 19:21).
We take this aspect of the life of Jesus to be a matter of fact, not of myth or
dogma.  And hence the circumstances of this miraculous birth are worthy
of being studied.   Chilton (pp. 3-22) devotes an entire chapter to what he
supposes to have been the consequences for Jesus’ emotional and social
development of his mother having conceived him out of wedlock.  He
indicates that Jesus was a “mamzer” (in effect, a bastard) and that he
would have been treated as an outsider by the Jewish community as a
whole as a result.  Vermes  (pp. 226-229) has a much more nuanced
understanding of the accounts of Mary’s virgin birth.  He points out that
Philo  of  Alexandria,  a  contemporary  of  Jesus,  described  “the
postmenopausal wife of Abraham as a woman who had become a virgin for
the second time (De posteritate Caini, 134)…he characterized Isaac, the
miraculously born child of Sarah and Abraham, as the ‘son of God’ (De
mutatione  nominum,  131)…Philo  ascribes  Sarah’s  pregnancy  to  her
encounter with God…(De cherubim, 45).” (p. 228)   Unlike both Chilton
and Vermes, we regard the virgin birth as an historical occurrence and not
a cover up for an unintentional and out of wedlock insemination or a
metaphorical spiritualization of a special birth.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Not everyone was convinced of the virginity of Mary.   We will begin with
the non-canonical Christian accounts, for they probably had the most
influence upon later stories, be they Jewish or Muslim.  The Gospel of
Pseudo-Matthew56 tells of this suspicion in great detail, and particularly
paints the anguish of both Joseph and Mary in vivid color:
CHAP. 10.--While these things were doing, Joseph was occupied with his
work,  house-building,  in  the districts  by the sea-shore; for he was  a
carpenter. And after nine months he came back to his house, and found
Mary pregnant. Wherefore, being in the utmost distress, he trembled and
cried out, saying: O Lord God, receive my spirit; for it is better for me to
die than to live any longer. And the virgins who were with Mary said to him:
Joseph, what art thou saying? We know that no man has touched her; we
can testify that she is still a virgin, and untouched. We have watched over
her; always has she continued with us in prayer; daily do the angels of God
speak with her; daily does she receive food from the hand of the Lord. We
know not how it is possible that there can be any sin in her. But if thou
wishest us to tell thee what we suspect, nobody but the angel of the Lord
[2] has made her pregnant. Then said Joseph: Why do you mislead me, to
believe that an angel of the Lord has made her pregnant? But it is possible
that some one has pretended to be an angel of the Lord, and has beguiled
her. And thus speaking, he wept, and said:  With what face shall I look at
the temple of the Lord, or with what face shall I see the priests of God?
What am I to do? And thus saying, he thought that he would flee, and send
her away.  CHAP. 11.-- And when he was thinking of rising up and hiding
himself, and dwelling in secret, behold, on that very night, the angel of the
Lord appeared to him in sleep, saying: Joseph, thou son of David, fear
not; receive Mary as thy wife: for that which is in her womb is of the Holy
Spirit. And she shall bring forth a son, and His name shall be called Jesus,
for He will save His people from their sins. And Joseph, rising from his
sleep, gave thanks to God, and spoke to Mary and the virgins who were
with her, and told them his vision. And he was comforted about Mary,
saying: I have sinned, in that I suspected thee at all.  CHAP. 12.--After
these things there arose a great report that Mary was with child. And
Joseph was seized by the officers of the temple, and brought along with

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Mary to the high priest. And he with the priests began to reproach him,
and to say: Why hast thou beguiled so great and so glorious a virgin, who
was fed like a dove in the temple by the angels of God, who never wished
either to see or to have a man, who had the most excellent knowledge of
the law of God? If thou hadst not done violence to her, she would still have
remained in her virginity. And Joseph vowed, and swore that he had never
touched her at all. And Abiathar the high priest answered him: As the Lord
liveth, I will give thee to drink of the water of drinking of the Lord, and
immediately thy sin will appear.  Then was assembled a multitude of people
which could not be numbered, and Mary was brought to the temple. And
the priests, and her relatives, and her parents wept, and said to Mary:
Confess to the priests thy sin, thou that wast like a dove in the temple of
God, and didst receive food from the hands of an angel. And again Joseph
was summoned to the altar, and the water of drinking of the Lord was given
him to drink. And when any one that had lied drank this water, and walked
seven times round the altar, God used to show some sign in his face. When,
therefore, Joseph had drunk in safety, and had walked round the altar
seven times, no sign of sin appeared in him. Then all the priests, and the
officers, and the people justified him, saying: Blessed art thou, seeing that
no charge has been found good against thee. And they summoned Mary,
and said: And what excuse canst thou have? or what greater sign can
appear in thee than the conception of thy womb, which betrays thee? This
only we require of thee, that since Joseph is pure regarding thee, thou
confess who it is that has beguiled thee. For it is better that thy confession
should betray thee, than that the wrath of God should set a mark on thy
face,  and  expose  thee  in  the  midst  of  the  people.  Then  Mary  said,
stedfastly and without trembling: O Lord God, King over all, who knowest
all secrets, if there be any pollution in me, or any sin, or any evil desires, or
unchastity, expose me in the sight of all the people, and make me an
example of punishment to all. Thus saying, she went up to the altar of the
Lord boldly, and drank the water of drinking, and walked round the altar
seven times, and no spot was found in her.  And when all the people were in
the utmost astonishment, seeing that she was with child, and that no sign
had appeared in her face, they began to be disturbed among themselves

JESUS † The Complete Biography
by conflicting statements: some said that she was holy and unspotted,
others that she was wicked and defiled. Then Mary, seeing that she was
still suspected by the people, and that on that account she did not seem to
them to be wholly cleared, said in the hearing of all, with a loud voice, As
the Lord Adonai liveth, the Lord of Hosts before whom I stand, I have not
known man; but I am known by Him to whom from my earliest years I have
devoted myself. And this vow I made to my God from my infancy, that I
should remain unspotted in Him who created me, and I trust that I shall so
live to Him alone, and serve Him alone; and in Him, as long as I shall live, will I
remain unpolluted. Then they all began to kiss her feet and to embrace her
knees, asking her to pardon them for their wicked suspicions. And she was
led down to her house with exultation and joy by the people, and the
priests, and all the virgins. And they cried out, and said: Blessed be the
name of the Lord for ever, because He hath manifested thy holiness to all
His people Israel.
Later Jewish accounts are far from straightforward in their imputations of
unchastity to the mother of the founder of Christianity.  Perhaps this was
to protect the Jewish community; or perhaps the references in the Talmud
weren’t actually directed towards Jesus and his mother at all.  “There is no
Talmudic text that directly associates Jesus with Mary (Miriam), instead
the  association  is  indirect:  Jesus  is  associated  with  a  father  ("son  of
Pandera"), and in other passages, Pandera is associated with Mary (as her
lover)…The  Babylonian  Talmud  contains  narratives  that  discuss  an
anonymous person who brought witchcraft out of Egypt, and the person is
identified as "son of Pandera" or "son of Stada". The Talmud discusses
whether the individual (the name Jesus is not present in these passages) is
the son of Stada, or Pandera, and a suggestion is made that the mother
Mary ("Miriam" in Hebrew) committed adultery:
Babylonian Shabbat 104b "Was he the son of Stara (and not) the son of
Pandera?" (Editions or MSs: Oxford 23, Soncino)
Babylonian Sanhedrin 67a "Was he the son of Stara (and not) the son of
Pandera?" (Editions or MSs: Herzog 1, Karlsruhe 2, ... )
Babylonian Shabbat 104b "husband Stada, lover Pandera" (Editions or
MSs: Vatican 108, Munich 95, Vilna )

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Babylonian Sanhedrin 67a "husband Stara, lover Pandera" (Editions or
MSs: Herzog 1, Barco)
Babylonian Shabbat 104b "husband Pappos, mother Stada" (Editions or
MSs: Vilna, Munich 95 )
Babylonian Sanhedrin 67a "husband Pappos, mother Stada" (Editions or
MSs: Vilna, Munich 95)
Babylonian Shabbat 104b "his mother Miriam who let grow (her) women's
hair" (Editions or MSs: Vilna, Oxford 23, Soncino)
Babylonian Sanhedrin 67a "his mother Miriam who let grow (her) women's
hair" (Editions or MSs: Karlsruhe 2, Munich 95)
Suratu’l-Nisa’  (IV)  in  the  Qur’an,  frequently  critical  of  Jews,  while
generally more approving of Christians, alludes to this:
155 And [We cursed them] for their breaking of the covenant and their
disbelief in the signs of Allah and their killing of the prophets without right
and their saying, "Our hearts are wrapped". Rather, Allah has sealed them
because of their disbelief, so they believe not, except for a few.  156 And
[We cursed them] for their disbelief and their saying against Mary a great
slander…
Suratu Maryam (XIX) in the Qur’an gives more details, not only of the
suspicions about Mary but also about the miracle of Jesus speaking as a
newborn babe:
27 Then she brought him to her people, carrying him. They said, "O Mary,
you have certainly done a thing unprecedented.  28 O sister of Aaron,
your father was not a man of evil, nor was your mother unchaste."  29 So
she pointed to him. They said, "How can we speak to one who is in the
cradle a child?"  30 [Jesus] said, "Indeed, I am the servant of Allah . He has
given me the Scripture and made me a prophet.  31 And He has made me
blessed wherever I am and has enjoined upon me prayer and zakah as long
as I remain alive  32 And [made me] dutiful to my mother, and He has not
made me a wretched tyrant.  33 And peace is on me the day I was born and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the day I will die and the day I am raised alive."  34 That is Jesus, the son of
Mary - the word of truth about which they are in dispute.
Bethlehem
Where was Mary when Jesus was conceived of the Holy Spirit?  In the
Gospel of Matthew, no place is designated for this event:
1:18 Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise: When as his mother Mary
was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with
child of the Holy Ghost. 1:19 Then Joseph her husband, being a just man, and
not willing to make her a publick example, was minded to put her away privily.
1:20 But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the LORD
appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to
take unto thee Mary thy wife: for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy
Ghost.
The other Gospel which mentions the conception of Jesus is the Gospel of
Luke, and it indicates that the annunciation of the pregnancy of Mary took
place in Nazareth:
1:26 And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of
Galilee, named Nazareth, 1:27 To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was
Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin's name was Mary.
The Qur’an (19:22-28) also refers to Mary’s pregnancy, but does not identify
the  place  where  this  began.   It indicates  that after  she  discovered  her
pregnancy she retired “to a remote place”, and it describes the circumstances
of the birth which were altogether dissimilar to any account found in the
canonical or non-canonical Gospels:
22. So she conceived him, and she retired with him to a remote place. 23. And
the pains of childbirth drove her to the trunk of a palm-tree: she cried (in her
anguish): "Ah! would that I had died before this! Would that I had been a thing
forgotten and out of sight!" 24. But (a voice) cried to her from beneath the
(palm-free): "Grieve not! for thy Lord hath provided a rivulet beneath thee;
25. "And shake towards thyself the trunk of the palm-tree: it will let fall fresh
ripe dates upon thee. 26. "So eat and drink and cool (thine) eye. And if thou

JESUS † The Complete Biography
dost see any man, say, 'I have vowed a fast to (Allah) Most Gracious, and this
day will I enter into no talk with any human being.' " 27. At length she brought
the (babe) to her people, carrying him (in her arms). They said: "O Mary!
truly an amazing thing hast thou brought! 28. "O sister of Aaron! thy father
was not a man of evil, nor thy mother a woman unchaste!"
Where was Jesus born?  Was it in the desert, apart from all people, or in the
city of David?  Was Jesus born in Bethlehem, out in “a remote place” and did
she bring him afterwards with her “to her people”?  According to the Gospel
of Matthew and the  Gospel of Luke, Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judaea,
only six miles from Jerusalem.  The passages identifying this as his birthplace
are altogether unambiguous:
In the Gospel of Matthew:
2:1 Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judaea in the days of Herod
the king, behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, 2:2 Saying,
Where is he that is born King of the Jews? for we have seen his star in the
east, and are come to worship him.  2:3 When Herod the king had heard these
things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him.  2:4 And when he had
gathered  all  the  chief  priests  and  scribes  of  the  people  together,  he
demanded of them where Christ should be born.  2:5 And they said unto him,
In Bethlehem of Judaea: for thus it is written by the prophet, 2:6 And thou
Bethlehem, in the land of Juda, art not the least among the princes of Juda:
for out of thee shall come a Governor, that shall rule my people Israel.
What Hebrew prophet has written this prophetic verse?  It is the prophet
Micah, and as he lived many centuries after the death of King David, it
clearly refers to his descendant, Mashiach ben David:
5:2  But thou, Bethlehem Ephratah,  though  thou  be little  among the
thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to
be  ruler  in  Israel;  whose  goings  forth  have  been  from  of  old,  from
everlasting.
In the Gospel of Luke:
2:4 And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth,
into Juda, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem; (because

JESUS † The Complete Biography
he was of the house and lineage of David:) 2:5 To be taxed with Mary
his espoused wife, being great with child.
Why  is  this  important  to  the  authors  of  two  of  the  Gospels,  and  to
countless commentators through the centuries for the precise reason that,
as indicated in the Gospel of Matthew, Mashiach ben David was to be born
in Bethlehem.  Why is Bethlehem called the “city of David”?  As recorded
in the First Book of the Prophet Samuel, King David was born in this
city:
17:12. Now David was the son of that Ephrathite, of Bethlehem Judaea,
before mentioned, whose name was Jesse, who had eight sons, and was an
old man in the days of Saul, and of great age among men.
The Gospel of Luke refers to Bethlehem as the city of David, from the
annunciation to the shepherds:
2:11  For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is
Christ the Lord.
Nearly every one of the references to the city of David in the Bible are to
Jerusalem, five in the First Book of Chronicles,  fourteen in the Second
Book of Chronicles, five in the Second Book of Kings, ten in the Third Book
of Kings, seven in the Fourth Book of Kings, one in the Book of Isaiah, two
in  the  Book  of  Nehemiah,  and  four  in  the  First  Book  of  Maccabees.
However, there is two references which stand out, and which confirm that
Bethlehem was also called the city of David.  In the First Book of Kings
we find the story of David,  prior  to  being proclaimed  King of Israel,
absented himself from the court of King Saul in order to participate in a
family ceremony:
20:5 And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, to morrow is the new moon,
and I should not fail to sit with the king at meat: but let me go, that I may
hide myself in the field unto the third day at even.  20:6 If thy father at all
miss me, then say, David earnestly asked leave of me that he might run to
Bethlehem his city: for there is a yearly sacrifice there for all the family…
20:27 And it came to pass on the morrow, which was the second day of the
month, that David's place was empty: and Saul said unto Jonathan his son,
Wherefore cometh not the son of Jesse to meat, neither yesterday, nor to
day? 20:28 And Jonathan answered Saul, David earnestly asked leave of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
me to go to Bethlehem: 20:29 And he said, Let me go, I pray thee; for our
family hath a sacrifice in the city; and my brother, he hath commanded me
to be there: and now, if I have found favour in thine eyes, let me get away, I
pray thee, and see my brethren. Therefore he cometh not unto the king's
table.
According to the genealogies of Jesus, in the Gospels of Matthew (1:6) and
Luke (3:31), his foster father, Joseph was a descendant of King David.   The
Gospel of Luke indicates that Joseph was obliged to return to Bethlehem
from Nazareth where he was residing, in order to pay a tax to the Roman
colonial government:
2:1 And it came to pass in those days, that there went out a decree from
Caesar Augustus that all the world should be taxed.  2:2 (And this taxing
was first made when Cyrenius was governor of Syria.) 2:3 And all went to
be taxed, every one into his own city.  2:4 And Joseph also went up from
Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judaea, unto the city of David,
which is called Bethlehem; (because he was of the house and lineage of
David:) 2:5 To be taxed with Mary his espoused wife, being great with
child.
Bruce Chilton has argued, based on geographical proximity, and not any
textual evidence, that Jesus was born in the Bethlehem of Galilee, a town
mentioned in the Book of Joshua (19:15), and located some seven miles
from Nazareth (Chilton, p. 9).   The Gospel of Luke puts this theory to
rest because of the details it gives of the days immediately following the
birth of Jesus:
2:21 And when eight days were accomplished for the circumcising of the
child, his name was called JESUS, which was so named of the angel before
he was conceived in the womb. 2:22 And when the days of her purification
according to the law of Moses were accomplished, they brought him to
Jerusalem, to present him to the Lord; 2:23 (As it is written in the law of the
LORD, Every male that openeth the womb shall be called holy to the
Lord;) 2:24 And to offer a sacrifice according to that which is said in the
law of the Lord, A pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons.  2:25 And,
behold, there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon; and the
same man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel: and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the Holy Ghost was upon him.  2:26 And it was revealed unto him by the
Holy Ghost, that he should not see death, before he had seen the Lord's
Christ.  2:27 And he came by the Spirit into the temple: and when the
parents brought in the child Jesus, to do for him after the custom of the
law, 2:28 Then took he him up in his arms, and blessed God, and said, 2:29
Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy word:
2:30 For mine eyes have seen thy salvation, 2:31 Which thou hast prepared
before the face of all people; 2:32 A light to lighten the Gentiles, and the
glory of thy people Israel.  2:33 And Joseph and his mother marvelled at
those things which were spoken of him.  2:34 And Simeon blessed them,
and said unto Mary his mother, Behold, this child is set for the fall and
rising again of many in Israel; and for a sign which shall be spoken against;
2:35 (Yea,  a  sword  shall  pierce  through  thy  own  soul also,)  that  the
thoughts of many hearts may be revealed.  2:36 And there was one Anna, a
prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Aser: she was of a
great age, and had lived with an husband seven years from her virginity;
2:37 And she was a widow of about fourscore and four years, which
departed not from the temple, but served God with fastings and prayers
night and day.  2:38 And she coming in that instant gave thanks likewise
unto the Lord, and spake of him to all them that looked for redemption in
Jerusalem.
All of these events took place, according to the Gospel of Luke, six miles
from the birthplace of Jesus.  While Bethlehem in Galilee is only seven
miles from Nazareth, it is sixty-five miles from Jerusalem.  Joseph and
Mary made the journey from Nazareth for the census, and after their visit
to Jerusalem they returned to Nazareth.  But this was not the only family
visit to Jerusalem…they returned every year for the feast of Passover.   In
the words of the Gospel of Luke:
2:39 And when they had performed all things according to the law of the
Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own city Nazareth.  2:40 And the
child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom: and the grace of
God was upon him.  2:41 Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at
the feast of the passover.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
There are, despite the testimony in the Gospels of Matthew and Luke, a
strange lack of references to Jesus coming from Bethlehem in the Gospel
of John, and the indication in that Gospel seems to be that he was born
instead in Nazareth:
1:45 Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith unto him, We have found him, of
whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, did write, Jesus of Nazareth, the
son of Joseph.  1:46 And Nathanael said unto him, Can there any good
thing come out of Nazareth? Philip saith unto him, Come and see…
7:41 Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, Shall Christ come out of
Galilee? 7:42 Hath not the scripture said, That Christ cometh of the seed
of David, and out of the town of Bethlehem, where David was? 7:43 So
there was a division among the people because of him…
18:7 Then asked he them again, Whom seek ye? And they said, Jesus of
Nazareth…
19:19 And Pilate wrote a title, and put it on the cross. And the writing was
JESUS OF NAZARETH THE KING OF THE JEWS.
It is not just the Gospel of John that indicates that Jesus came from
Nazareth…the synoptic Gospels and the Book of Acts also refer to him as
Jesus of Nazareth, not as Jesus of Bethlehem:
The Gospel of Mark:
1:9 And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of
Galilee, and was baptized of John in Jordan…
1:23 And there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit; and he
cried out, 1:24 Saying, Let us alone; what have we to do with thee, thou
Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art,
the Holy One of God…
10:47 And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry
out, and say, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me…
14:66 And as Peter was beneath in the palace, there cometh one of the
maids of the high priest: 14:67 And when she saw Peter warming himself,
she looked upon him, and said, And thou also wast with Jesus of Nazareth.
The Gospel of Matthew:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
21:10 And when he was come into Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying,
Who is this? 21:11 And the multitude said, This is Jesus the prophet of
Nazareth of Galilee…
26:71 And when he was gone out into the porch, another maid saw him, and
said  unto  them  that  were  there,  This  fellow  was  also  with  Jesus  of
Nazareth.
The Gospel of Luke:
4:33 And in the synagogue there was a man, which had a spirit of an
unclean devil, and cried out with a loud voice, 4:34 Saying, Let us alone;
what have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to
destroy us? I know thee who thou art; the Holy One of God…
18:37 And they told him, that Jesus of Nazareth passeth by……..
24:19  And  he  said  unto  them,  What  things?  And  they  said  unto  him,
Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty in deed and
word before God and all the people: 24:20 And how the chief priests and
our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and have crucified him.
Book of the Acts of the Apostles:
2:22  Ye  men  of  Israel,  hear  these  words;  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  a  man
approved of God among you by miracles and wonders and signs, which
God did by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also know…
3:6 Then Peter said, Silver and gold have I none; but such as I have give I
thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and walk…
4:10 Be it known unto you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the
name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised
from the dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you whole…
6:14 For we have heard him say, that this Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy
this place, and shall change the customs which Moses delivered us…
10:38 How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with
power: who went about doing good, and healing all that were oppressed of
the devil; for God was with him…

JESUS † The Complete Biography
22:7 And I fell unto the ground, and heard a voice saying unto me, Saul,
Saul, why persecutest thou me? 22:8 And I answered, Who art thou, Lord?
And he said unto me, I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom thou persecutest…
26:8 Why should it be thought a thing incredible with you, that God should
raise the dead? 26:9 I verily thought with myself, that I ought to do many
things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth.
The traditional explanation appears to be the only one that makes sense
today, namely, that while Jesus was born in Bethlehem, he was raised and
grew to adulthood in Nazareth, and hence that it was with Nazareth that he
was associated by all who knew him.  As we have seen in the case of David,
while he was born in Bethlehem, inasmuch he established his kingdom in
the city of Jerusalem, it was this latter city that came to be known as the
city of David57.
The  Gospel of Matthew explains how Jesus came to be residing in
Nazareth rather than Bethlehem.  It says that King Herod discovered from
the wise men from the East who had come to honor the newborn King of
the Jews that Bethlehem was where this babe was to be born, and to
protect Jesus and his wife Mary, Joseph took his family and fled to Egypt.
After this flight, he did not return to Bethlehem because he was warned in
a dream not to do so:
2:22 But when he heard that Archelaus did reign in Judaea in the room of
his  father Herod,  he  was  afraid  to  go  thither:  notwithstanding,  being
warned of God in a dream, he turned aside into the parts of Galilee: 2:23
And he came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth [Ναζαρέτ·]: that it might
be  fulfilled  which  was  spoken  by  the  prophets,  He  shall  be  called  a
Nazarene [Ναζωραῖος].
What  is  the  prophecy  that  indicates  that  the  promised  messiah,  the
redeemer  of  Israel  “shall  be  called  a  Nazarene”?   It  seems  to  be  a
connection between the Hebrew word for “branch” [netser] and the name
of the town where Jesus grew up.  A relationship between [netser] and
Nazareth was proposed in the Onomasticon of Eusebius (260-341 CE),
and in Jerome's (345-420 CE) Ad Marcellam, Epist. 46:13.  The prophetic
verse which are invoked in this passage from the Gospel of Matthew is
from the Book of Isaiah:
11:1 And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and a Branch
[netser in Hebrew] shall grow out of his roots:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Similar  references  to  a  Branch employ  other  words  in  the  original
Hebrew text; it is quite evident that the reference in the Gospel of Matthew
is  to  a  Hebrew  word,  as  there  is  no  equivalent  word  in  the  Greek
Septuagint.  Hence, the following references, while referring to Messiah
son of David are not fulfilled in a literal manner by Jesus:
The Book of Jeremiah:
23:5 Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will raise unto David a
righteous  Branch [ֶ֣צֶ֣צַמַמח], and a King shall reign and prosper, and shall
execute judgment and justice in the earth.  23:6 In his days Judah shall be
saved, and Israel shall dwell safely: and this is his name whereby he shall be
called, THE LORD OUR RIGHTEOUSNESS…
33:15 In those days, and at that time, will I cause the  Branch [ֶ֣צֶ֣צַמַמח] of
righteousness to grow up unto David; and he shall execute judgment and
righteousness in the land.  33:16 In those days shall Judah be saved, and
Jerusalem shall dwell safely: and this is the name wherewith she shall be
called, The LORD our righteousness.
The Book of Zechariah:
3:8 Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, thou, and thy fellows that sit
before thee: for they are men wondered at: for, behold, I will bring forth
my servant the BRANCH[ֶ֣צֶ֣צַמַמח]…
6:12 And speak unto him, saying, Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts,
saying, Behold the man whose name is The BRANCH [ֶ֣צֶ֣צַמַמח]; and he shall
grow up out of his place, and he shall build the temple of the LORD:
Whether or not those associated with Jesus during his lifetime recognized
the double entendre involved in calling him Jesus of Nazareth, it was
certainly not lost on later generations of Christians.  Perhaps we should
accord them the benefit of the doubt, and regard it as likely that those who
saw in him the anointed one of the house of David, born in the city of
David’s  birth,  having  as  his  foster  father  a  descendant  of  David,  and
regarded by his followers as the messiah of Davidic line, was the “branch…
out of his roots” predicted by Isaiah…hence it was not accidental that Jesus
referred so often to verses in the Book of Isaiah.
Only begotten son of the Father

JESUS † The Complete Biography
In the gospels there are indications that while Jesus claimed not to have
had a human father, and his mother claimed to have been miraculously
impregnated by the Holy Spirit, that there were lots of contemporaries who
did not believe this to be the case.  Not that there is any record of them
accusing him of being a “mamzer” (bastard), that is, of his father being
someone other than the man to whom she was betrothed, that is, Joseph.
There are allegedly such doubts preserved in the Talmud, as we have
already seen in the foregoing article on “Virgin Birth”.  But the people
around Jesus assumed that Joseph was his father, and this is clearly
demonstrated in all of the canonical gospels, as will be cited:
The Gospel of Matthew:
13:54 And when he was come into his own country, he taught them in their
synagogue, insomuch that they were astonished, and said, Whence hath
this  man  this  wisdom,  and  these  mighty  works?   13:55 Is  not  this  the
carpenter's son? is not his mother called Mary? and his brethren, James,
and Joses, and Simon, and Judas?  13:13:56 And his sisters, are they not all
with us? Whence then hath this man all these things?  13:57 And they were
offended in him. But Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without
honour, save in his own country, and in his own house.
The  Gospel of Mark:
6:2 And  when  the  sabbath  day  was  come,  he  began  to  teach  in  the
synagogue: and many hearing him were astonished, saying, From whence
hath this man these things? and what wisdom is this which is given unto him,
that even such mighty works are wrought by his hands?  6:3 Is not this the
carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James, and Joses, and of Juda,
and Simon? and are not his sisters here with us? And they were offended
at him.  6:4 But Jesus, said unto them, A prophet is not without honour,
but in his own country, and among his own kin, and in his own house.
The people who heard Jesus preach in his hometown, in Nazareth and
vicinity, they knew him to be the son of Joseph and Mary, with brothers
Yakov (James), Yosef (Joses), Shim’on (Simon) and Yehudah (Judas), and
unnamed sisters.  They were offended that he would act so superior to
them, as if he didn’t know his lowly place, as the son of a carpenter.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The Gospel of Luke:
4:21 And he began to say unto them, This day is this scripture fulfilled in
your ears.  4:22 And all bare him witness, and wondered at the gracious
words  which  proceeded out  of  his mouth.  And  they said,  Is  not  this
Joseph's son?  4:23 And he said unto them, Ye will surely say unto me this
proverb,  Physician,  heal  thyself:  whatsoever  we  have  heard  done  in
Capernaum, do also here in thy country.  4:24 And he said, Verily I say
unto you, No prophet is accepted in his own country.
This version of the same story drops the names of the brothers and sisters
of Jesus, keeps the question from those who witnessed his wisdom, and
added a proverb, which he is sure that they will say to him, to encourage
him to perform healings in Nazareth as he has already done in Capernaum.
Here he is depicted as a man of wisdom, as a healer, and he calls himself a
prophet, for if he were not a prophet, why would he speak of not being
“accepted in his own land”?

The Gospel of John:
6:41 The Jews then murmured at him, because he said, I am the bread which
came down from heaven.  6:42 And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of
Joseph, whose father and mother we know? how is it then that he saith, I
came down from heaven?  6:43 Jesus therefore answered and said unto
them, Murmur not among yourselves.  6:44 No man can come to me, except
the Father which hath sent me draw him: and I will raise him up at the last
day.
This seems to be an account also set in Nazareth but not the same as is told
in the synoptic gospels.  There is no account of him preaching in the
synagogue that inspired this question about his family origins; and his
reply is different as well – here challenging the Nazarene Jews not to hide
their doubts but to speak openly, and telling them that only those will
come to and follow him if they are attracted to him by his heavenly Father
– hence, only if they are inspired by God, by the Holy Spirit to do so.  That
one who is so attracted will be raised up “at the last day”.  If we explain
these teachings we get far ahead of ourselves.
Those who knew him and his family believed that he had a natural, a
biological father and mother, like all other children.  That Jesus had a
miraculous birth does not seem to have been known to them…and it is

JESUS † The Complete Biography
even more unlikely that it would have been known to those who did not
live in his hometown.  In fact, we may well suppose that only the few who
witnessed the events connected with his birth were truly informed about
it…and they don’t seem to have talked about it much during his lifetime, or
surely it would have become an issue discussed among his followers and
his detractors.
We come now to the description of Jesus as the “only begotten son” of the
“Father”.   We are  already familiar  with the Biblical  references to  the
“firstborn son” of God, referring to Israel (Exodus 4:22), to Ephrayim
(Jeremiah 31:9) and to David (89:27).  In Bereshit/Genesis (22:2,12,16),
there are identical references to Yitzhak (Isaac) being the “only son” of
Abraham.  The phrase in Hebrew is “et bincha et yechiydecha” ְנָך ֶאתביְדָך ִּחְיְיִ
ֶאת meaning “thy son thine only son”.  This is confirmed in the Epistle to the
Hebrews (11:17), “17 By faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac: and
he that had received the promises offered up his only begotten son”, and the Greek
wording of “only begotten” is “monogene μονογενῆ -- while the Greek Septuagint
does not translate the Hebrew at all, the equivalent in the Masoretic text of
Genesis was “yechiydecha”.  The first son of Abraham, with his wife’s slave
Hagar, was Ishmael.  For the fourteen years he lived before the birth of Isaac,
Ishmael was the only son of Abraham.  And it was doubtful that there would be a
second son, inasmuch as Sarah banished Hagar and Sarah was barren.  How then
could Isaac be called not just the firstborn son of Abraham but the only son of
Abraham?  The meaning of these verses, in Genesis and in Hebrews is not literal,
for the literal meaning would be erroneous.  It refers to the spiritual status, the
rank, the standing of this son, of Isaac in the eyes of God and in the eyes of his
father Abraham.  He was the “only begotten son” of Abraham because he was
chosen to inherit the property of his father and the promise given to his father by
YHWH.  Of the two, clearly the second was by far the most important.  It is
integral to the covenant of YHWH with Abraham that Isaac, the son of Sarah who
was barren and ninety years of age, should succeed him.  This son was miraculous
in his birth and he was chosen prior to his birth to inherit the promise of God.  It is
in this context that we are meant, by the Jewish writers of the New Testament, to
interpret the three references to Jesus as the “only begotten son of the Father” –
John 1:18; 3:16,18; and 1 John 4:9.  We know already that to be denominated a
“son” of the “Father” was a distinction and an honor and also entailed a great
responsibility, to live according to the commandments, to be holy and consecrated
to God.  We see then that to be the “only begotten son” of God is to be accorded
the heritage destined for the “firstborn” and to inherit the covenant of God.  The
images of the Davidic and Solomonic king, and of the Abrahamic son are both
invoked, not to suggest a direct biological tie between Jesus and his heavenly
“Father” but rather to depict a uniqueness of spiritual bond.  These appear to
coaslesce  the  imagery  of  Mashiach  ben  David,  clearly  in  the  Davidic  and
Solomonic line of “sons” of God, with that of Mashiach ben Joseph, offered as a
sacrifice to God, a suffering servant as depicted by Isaiah, and hence “Ephrayim”
the “firstborn son”.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Year of his birth
The traditional year of the birth of Jesus is the starting point of the
Gregorian calendar, used for all business and governmental transactions of
a global nature worldwide and the default calendar in most countries and
daily referred to by most people.  However, the calculation of the birth of
Jesus has been disputed on many grounds, including the following:
1)According to the Gospels of Matthew and Luke, King Herod the Great
was the reigning monarch over Bethlehem when Jesus was born.  In the
Gospel of Matthew, it is related that Joseph took Mary and Jesus to Egypt
to flee the wrath of King Herod, and that King Herod died before Jesus was
brought back to Israel from Egypt.  Upon their return, Herod Archelaus
reigned in Jerusalem.  King Herod died in 4 BCE according to Titus Flavius
Josephus,  Antiquities  of  the  Jews  (XVII,  viii,  1).  Apparently,  Herod
Antipas,  the  eldest  son,  expected  to  inherit  the  throne  of  his  father.
However, in the last will of King Herod he bequeathed the rule of Judea
and Samaria to his youngest son Archelaus, and Galilee and Pereia were
bequeathed to Herod Antipas while Ituraea and Trachonitis (east of the
Jordan River, now in Syria and Jordan) were bequeathed to Philip.  In
Judea, Herod Archelaus was affirmed as king by the army, but he would
not assume the title of tetrarch bestowed upon him and his two brothers
until his father’s will was confirmed by Caesar Augustus in Rome.  When
King  Herod  the  Great  had  fallen  ill,  two  Jewish  leaders  among  the
populace, Judas and Matthias, had incited their pupils to remove the
golden eagle from the entrance of the Temple.  Their wish was to purify the
Temple of the abomination of desolation of Roman polytheism.  According
to the Ten Commandments, it was a sin to make and worship idols.  King
Herod had these two teachers and their pupils burned alive (March 13, in 4
BCE).   Herod  Archelaus  had  to  face  an  angry  crowd  that  demanded
rehabilitation  of  these  martyrs;  some  three  thousand  Jews,  usually
described as Pharisees, were killed during the celebration of Passover.
After the slaughter, all seemed quiet, and Herod Archelaus traveled to
Rome. In his absence, there were fresh riots. The leaders were a robber
named Judas, a royal slave called Simon, a shepherd named Athronges and
his brothers.  All may have been messianic claimants. Archelaus' troops
were unable to put down their revolts, and the Roman governor of Syria,
Publius Quinctilius Varus, had to intervene. It was a major operation,
which probably involved three of the four Syrian legions (III Gallica, VI
Ferrata, X Fretensis and XII Fulminata).   Two thousand people were
crucified, but not all the leaders were caught.  In Rome his father’s will was
opposed  by  his  brother  Herod  Antipas  and  by  many  of  the  Jewish
population, who, after his behavior towards their brethren in Jerusalem,
greatly feared his cruelty.  Nevertheless, Caesar Augustus allotted to him
the greater part of the kingdom (Samaria, Judea, and Idumea) with the
title of ethnarch, and he retained this title and governing role until 6 AD

JESUS † The Complete Biography
when Hyrcanus II succeeded him.  Ultimately, Archelaus came to terms
with one of Athronges' brothers,  something that could  not have been
popular among the Jewish population.  The Gospel of Matthew implies
that Joseph and Mary were afraid to go to the territories ruled by Herod
Archelaus, and therefore settled in Galilee (Matthew 2.22).
If King Herod the Great was alive when Jesus was born, either Jesus was
born before 4 BCE or the chronology of Josephus is unreliable.  Historians
have preferred to vest their confidence in Josephus’ dating of events, and
so they have been critical of the traditional dating of the birth of Jesus.
2)There is another reason to revise the birth date of Jesus.  In the Gospel
of Luke it is indicated that Jesus was born at the time when a Roman
census was conducted throughout the Roman Empire:  “There went out a
decree  from  Caesar  Augustus,  that  all  the  [Roman]  world  should  be
registered” (Luke 2:1).   The issuing of this decree is confirmed in various
non-canonical  texts,  including
The  History  of  Joseph  the
Carpenter58:
7. Some time after that, there came forth an order from Augustus Caesar
the king, that all the habitable world should be enrolled, each man in his
own city. The old man therefore, righteous Joseph, rose up and took the
virgin Mary and came to Bethlehem, because the time of her bringing forth
was at hand. Joseph then inscribed his name in the list; for Joseph the son
of David, whose spouse Mary was, was of the tribe of Judah. And indeed
Mary, my mother, brought me forth in Bethlehem, in a cave near the tomb
of Rachel the wife of the patriarch Jacob, the mother of Joseph and
Benjamin.
Martin writes59, “There is  a reference to such a registration of all the
Roman  people  not  long  before  5  February  2  B.C.  written  by  Caesar
Augustus himself: "While I was administering my thirteenth consulship [2
B.C.] the senate and the equestrian order and the entire Roman people
gave me the title Father of my Country" (Res Gestae 35). This award was
given to Caesar Augustus on 5 February 2 B.C., therefore the registration of
citizen approval must have taken place in 3 B.C. Orosius, in the fifth
century, also said that Roman records of his time revealed that a census
was indeed held when Augustus was made "the first of men"--an apt
description of his award "Father of the Country"--at a time when all the
great nations gave an oath of obedience to Augustus (6:22, 7:2). Orosius
dated the census to 3 B.C.  And besides that, Josephus substantiates that
an oath of obedience to Augustus was required in Judea not long before

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the  death  of Herod  (Antiquities XVII:41-45).   This agrees nicely in a
chronological sense with what Luke records.  But more than that, an
inscription found in Paphlagonia (eastern Turkey), also dated to 3 B.C.,
mentions an  "oath sworn by all the people in the land at the altars of
Augustus  in  the  temples  of  Augustus  in  the  various  districts." And
dovetailing  precisely  with  this  inscription,  the  early  (fifth  century)
Armenian historian, Moses of Khoren, said the census that brought Joseph
and Mary to Bethlehem was conducted by Roman agents in Armenia
where they set up "the image of Augustus Caesar in every temple.'. The
similarity  of  this  language  is  strikingly  akin  to  the  wording  on  the
Paphlagonian  inscription  describing  the  oath  taken  in  3  B.C.  These
indications can allow us to reasonably conclude that the oath (of Josephus,
the Paphlagonian inscription, and Orosius) and the census (mentioned by
Luke, Orosius, and Moses of Khoren) were one and the same. All of these
things happened in 3 B.C.”
This does not resolve the problems of chronology however.  If the decree of
Caesar Augustus was issued in 3 BCE, and if King Herod the Great died in
4 BCE then he would not have been alive when the decree was issued and
he could not have met the wise men from the East and issued an order to
kill all firstborn sons in the town of Bethlehem.   As there are several
attestations to the dating of the census of Caesar Augustus and only one (in
Josephus) to the dating of the death of Herod and the accession of Herod
Archelaus and his brothers, one possibility we should consider is that
Jesus may have been born shortly after the decree of Caesar Augustus, in
2/3 BCE, and King Herod may have died a few months to a year later, in
1/2 BCE.   If Joseph did not respond immediately to the census of 2/3 BCE,
and if the reference to the census was a general marker cited by Luke and
not a precise indication of the time of Jesus’ birth, then it may be supposed
that Josephus’ chronology was off by as much as four years.  We may well
wonder why centuries of Church historians would have failed to correct the
chronology of the birth of Jesus if there were compelling evidence that it
took place at a considerable distance, possibly as much as four or five years
prior to what was calculated by the originators of the Gregorian calendar.
Could it be that those who established this calendar themselves calculated
wrongly?  Could they have begun their calendar a few years later than the
events cited for its origination?  When we consider the great calendar wars
that have occurred across the centuries, between the Julianites and the
Gregorianites, the Karaites and the Rabbanites, and many others, it seems
plausible that a few years could have disappeared here or there.
Birth of Jesus
The second chapter of the  Gospel of Matthew recounts the birth of
Jesus:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
2:11And when they [the Magi] were come into the house, they saw the
young child with Mary his mother, and fell down, and worshipped him: and
when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts;
gold, and frankincense, and myrrh. 2:12And being warned of God in a
dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed into their own
country another way.
The second chapter of the  Gospel of Luke gives the other canonical
account of this birth:
2:6And so it was, that, while they [Mary and Joseph] were there [in
Bethlehem], the days were accomplished that she should be delivered.
2:7And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling
clothes, and laid him in a manger; because there was no room for them in
the inn…
2:16And they [the shepherds who had heard of Jesus’ birth from angels]
came with haste, and found Mary, and Joseph, and the babe lying in a
manger. 17And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying
which was told them concerning this child. 2:18And all they that heard it
wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds. 2:19But
Mary kept all these things, and pondered them in her heart. 2:20And the
shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they
had heard and seen, as it was told unto them.
Another account is found in the non-canonical  Protoevangelium of
James60:
17.  And  there  was  an  order  from  the  Emperor  Augustus,  that  all  in
Bethlehem of Judaea should be enrolled. And Joseph said: I shall enrol my
sons, but what shall I do with this maiden? How shall I enrol her? As my
wife? I am ashamed. As my daughter then? But all the sons of Israel know
that she is not my daughter. The day of the Lord shall itself bring it to pass
as the Lord will. And he saddled the ass, and set her upon it; and his son
led it, and Joseph followed. And when they had come within three miles,
Joseph turned and saw her sorrowful; and he said to himself: Likely that

JESUS † The Complete Biography
which is in her distresses her. And again Joseph turned and saw her
laughing. And he said to her: Mary, how is it that I see in thy face at one
time laughter, at another sorrow? And Mary said to Joseph: Because I see
two peoples with my eyes; the one weeping and lamenting, and the other
rejoicing and exulting. And they came into the middle of the road, and
Mary said to him: Take me down from off the ass, for that which is in me
presses to come forth. And he took her down from off the ass, and said to
her: Whither shall I lead thee, and cover thy disgrace?  for the place is
desert. 18. And he [Joseph] found a cave there, and led her into it; and
leaving his two sons beside her, he went out to seek a widwife in the district
of Bethlehem. And I Joseph was walking, and was not walking; and I looked
up into the sky, and saw the sky astonished; and I looked up to the pole of
the heavens, and saw it standing, and the birds of the air keeping still. And
I looked down upon the earth, and saw a trough lying, and work-people
reclining: and their hands were in the trough. And those that were eating
did not eat, and those that were rising did not carry it up, and those that
were conveying anything to their mouths did not convey it; but the faces of
all were looking upwards. And I saw the sheep walking, and the sheep
stood still; and the shepherd raised his hand to strike them, and his hand
remained up. And I looked upon the current of the river, and I saw the
mouths of the kids resting on the water and not drinking, and all things in a
moment were driven from their course.  19. And I saw a woman coming down
from the hill-country, and she said to me: O man, whither art thou going?
And I said: I am seeking an Hebrew midwife. And she answered and said
unto me: Art thou of Israel? And I said to her: Yes. And she said: And who
is it that is bringing forth in the cave? And I said: A woman betrothed to me.
And she said to me: Is she not thy wife? And I said to her: It is Mary that
was reared in the temple of the Lord, and I obtained her by lot as my wife.
And yet she is not my wife, but has conceived of the Holy Spirit. And the
widwife said to him: Is this true? And Joseph said to her: Come and see.
And the midwife went away with him. And they stood in the place of the
cave,  and  behold  a  luminous  cloud  overshadowed  the  cave.  And  the
midwife said: My soul has been magnified this day, because mine eyes have
seen strange things -- because salvation has been brought forth to Israel.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
And immediately the cloud disappeared out of the cave, and a great light
shone in the cave, so that the eyes could not bear it. And in a little that
light gradually decreased, until the infant appeared, and went and took
the breast from His mother Mary. And the midwife cried out, and said: This
is a great day to me, because I have seen this strange sight. And the
midwife went forth out of the cave, and Salome met her. And she said to
her: Salome, Salome, I have a strange sight to relate to thee: a virgin has
brought forth -- a thing which her nature admits not of. Then said Salome:
As the Lord my God liveth, unless I thrust in my finger, and search the
parts, I will not believe that a virgin has brought forth.   20. And the midwife
went in, and said to Mary: Show thyself; for no small controversy has
arisen about thee. And Salome put in her finger, and cried out, and said:
Woe is me for mine iniquity and mine unbelief, because I have tempted the
living God; and, behold, my hand is dropping off as if burned with fire. And
she  bent  her  knees  before  the  Lord,  saying:  O  God  of  my  fathers,
remember that I am the seed of Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob; do not
make a show of me to the sons of Israel, but restore me to the poor; for
Thou knowest, O Lord, that in Thy name I have performed my services,
and that I have received my reward at Thy hand. And, behold, an angel of
the Lord stood by her, saying to her: Salome, Salome, the Lord hath heard
thee. Put thy hand to the infant, and carry it, and thou wilt have safety and
joy. And Salome went and carried it, saying: I will worship Him, because a
great King has been born to Israel. And, behold, Salome was immediately
cured, and she went forth out of the cave justified. And behold a voice
saying: Salome, Salome, tell not the strange things thou hast seen, until the
child has come into Jerusalem.
Another account we find in the Gospel of Pseudo-Matthew, which, like
the Protoevangelium of James, has Mary giving birth to Jesus in a cave61:
And when he had thus said, the angel ordered the beast to stand, for the
time when she should bring forth was at hand; and he commanded the
blessed Mary to come down off the animal, and go into a recess under a
cavern, in which there never was light, but always darkness, because the
light of day could not reach it. And when the blessed Mary had gone into

JESUS † The Complete Biography
it, it began to shine with as much brightness as if it were the sixth hour of
the day. The light from God so shone in the cave, that neither by day nor
night was light wanting as long as the blessed Mary was there. And there
she brought forth a son, and the angels surrounded Him when He was
being born. And as soon as He was born, He stood upon His feet, and the
angels adored Him, saying:  Glory to God in the highest, and on earth
peace to men of good pleasure. [3] Now, when the birth of the Lord was at
hand, Joseph had gone away to seek midwives. And when he had found
them, he returned to the cave, and found with Mary the infant which she
had brought forth. And Joseph said to the blessed Mary: I have brought
thee two midwives--Zelomi [4] and Salome; and they are standing outside
before the entrance to the cave, not daring to come in hither, because of
the exceeding brightness. And when the blessed Mary heard this, she
smiled; and Joseph said to her: Do not smile; but prudently allow them to
visit thee, in case thou shouldst require them for thy cure. Then she
ordered them to enter. And when Zelomi had come in, Salome having
stayed without, Zelomi said to Mary: Allow me to touch thee. And when she
had permitted her to make an examination, the midwife cried out with a
loud voice, and said: Lord, Lord Almighty, mercy on us! It has never been
heard or thought of, that any one should have her breasts full of milk, and
that the birth of a son should show his mother to be a virgin. But there has
been no spilling of blood in his birth, no pain in bringing him forth. A virgin
has conceived, a virgin has brought forth, and a virgin she remains. And
hearing these words, Salome said: Allow me to handle thee, and prove
whether Zelomi have spoken the truth. And the blessed Mary allowed her
to handle her. And when she had withdrawn her hand from handling her, it
dried up, and through excess of pain she began to weep bitterly, and to be
in great distress, crying out, and saying: O Lord God, Thou knowest that I
have always feared Thee, and that without recompense I have cared for all
the poor; I have taken nothing from the widow and the orphan, and the
needy have I not sent empty away. And, behold, I am made wretched
because of mine unbelief, since without a cause I wished to try Thy virgin.
And while she was thus speaking, there stood by her a young man in
shining garments, saying: Go to the child, and adore Him, and touch Him

JESUS † The Complete Biography
with thy hand, and He will heal thee, because He is the Saviour of the
world, and of all that hope in Him. And she went to the child with haste,
and adored Him, and touched the fringe of the cloths in which He was
wrapped, and instantly her hand was cured. And going forth, she began to
cry aloud, and to tell the wonderful things which she had seen, and which
she had suffered, and how she had been cured; so that many through her
statements believed.
A third non-canonical account, in the  Arabic Infancy Gospel of the
Savior,  also refers to the birth taking place in a cave62:
2. In the three hundred and ninth year of the era of Alexander, Augustus
put forth an edict, that every man should be enrolled in his native place.
Joseph therefore arose, and taking Mary his spouse, went away to (3)
Jerusalem, and came to Bethlehem, to be enrolled along with his family in
his native city. And having come to a cave, Mary told Joseph that the time
of the birth was at hand, and that she could not go into the city; but, said
she, let us go into this cave. This took place at sunset. And Joseph went
out in haste to go for a woman to be near her. When, therefore, he was
busy about that, he saw an Hebrew old woman belonging to Jerusalem,
and said: Come hither, my good woman, and go into this cave, in which
there is a woman near her time.  3. Wherefore, after sunset, the old woman,
and Joseph with her, came to the cave, and they both went in. And,
behold, it was filled with lights more beautiful than the gleaming of lamps
and candles, (4) and more splendid than the light of the sun. The child,
enwrapped in swaddling clothes, was sucking the breast of the Lady Mary
His mother, being placed in a stall. And when both were wondering at this
light, the old woman asks the Lady Mary: Art thou the mother of this
Child? And when the Lady Mary gave her assent, she says: Thou art not at
all like the daughters of Eve. The Lady Mary said: As my son has no equal
among children, so his mother has no equal among women. The old woman
replied: My mistress, I came to get payment; I have been for a long time
affected with palsy. Our mistress the Lady Mary said to her: Place thy
hands upon the child. And the old woman did so, and was immediately
cured. Then she went forth, saying: Henceforth I will be the attendant and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
servant of this child all the days of my life.  4. Then came shepherds; and
when they had lighted a fire, and were rejoicing greatly, there appeared to
them the hosts of heaven praising and celebrating God Most High. And
while the shepherds were doing the same, the cave was at that time made
like a temple of the upper world, since both heavenly and earthly voices
glorified and magnified God on account of the birth of the Lord Christ.
And when that old Hebrew woman saw the manifestation of those miracles,
she thanked God, saying: I give Thee thanks, O God, the God of Israel,
because mine eyes have seen the birth of the Saviour of the world.
The single account of the birth of Jesus in the Qur’an is found in Suratu
Maryam:
19:22 So she conceived him, and she withdrew with him to a remote place.
10:23 And the pains of childbirth drove her to the trunk of a palm tree. She
said, "Oh, I wish I had died before this and was in oblivion, forgotten." 19:24
But he called her from below her, "Do not grieve; your Lord has provided
beneath you a stream. 19:25 And shake toward you the trunk of the palm
tree; it will drop upon you ripe, fresh dates. 19:26 So eat and drink and be
contented. And if you see from among humanity anyone, say, 'Indeed, I
have vowed to the Most Merciful abstention, so I will not speak today to
man.' "
The story in the Qur’an contains parallels found in both the canonical and
non-canonical gospels.  What it has in common with that found in the
Gospel of Matthew is that Mary is depicted as being with her newborn
baby upon his birth with no mention of Joseph until it is time for them to
flee to Egypt.  In the Qur’an, Mary gives birth to Jesus alone and in “a
remote place” and doesn’t even know how she will survive there.  The
Protoevangelium of James spoke of Mary being led to the desert.  Then
there is the story of a voice from below that told her how she would be able
to derive nourishment from the date palms.  It is not clear whether this
voice is of an angel or of Jesus, her newborn son.  However, a comparison
of this story with the Gospel of Pseudo-Matthew, cited here, indicates
that Muhammad did not invent this story but it was conveyed to him by his
Christian informants.  Nevertheless, either the informants mixed up the
sequence of events, or Muhammad did so.  Jesus speaks to the date tree
and asks for the dates to be provided for food not immediately after his
birth, but three days into their journey from Bethlehem to Egypt63:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
CHAP. 20.-- And it came to pass on the third day of their journey, while
they were walking, that the blessed Mary was fatigued by the excessive
heat of the sun in the desert; and seeing a palm tree, she said to Joseph:
Let me rest a little under the shade of this tree. Joseph therefore made
haste, and led her to the palm, and made her come down from her beast.
And as the blessed Mary was sitting there, she looked up to the foliage of
the palm, and saw it full of fruit, and said to Joseph: I wish it were possible
to get some of the fruit of this palm. And Joseph said to her: I wonder that
thou sayest this, when thou seest how high the palm tree is; and that thou
thinkest of eating of its fruit. I am thinking more of the want of water,
because the skins are now empty, and we have none wherewith to refresh
ourselves and our cattle. Then the child Jesus, with a joyful countenance,
reposing in the bosom of His mother, said to the palm: O tree, bend thy
branches, and refresh my mother with thy fruit. And immediately at these
words the palm bent its top down to the very feet of the blessed Mary; and
they gathered from it fruit, with which they were all refreshed. And after
they had gathered all its fruit, it remained bent down, waiting the order to
rise from Him who bad commanded it to stoop. Then Jesus said to it: Raise
thyself, O palm tree, and be strong, and be the companion of my trees,
which are in the paradise of my Father; and open from thy roots a vein of
water which has been hid in the earth, and let the waters flow, so that we
may be satisfied from thee. And it rose up immediately, and at its root
there began to come forth a spring of water exceedingly clear and cool
and sparkling. And when they saw the spring of water, they rejoiced with
great joy, and were satisfied, themselves and all their cattle and their
beasts. Wherefore they gave thanks to God.   CHAP. 21. -- And on the day
after, when they were setting out thence, and in the hour in which they
began their journey, Jesus turned to the palm, and said:  This privilege I
give thee, O palm tree, that one of thy branches be carried away by my
angels, and planted in the paradise of my Father. And this blessing I will
confer upon thee, that it shall be said of all who conquer in any contest,
You have attained the palm of victory. And while He was thus speaking,
behold, an angel of the Lord appeared, and stood upon the palm tree; and
taking off one of its branches, flew to heaven with the branch in his hand.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
And when they saw this, they fell on their faces, and became as it were
dead. And Jesus said to them: Why are your hearts possessed with fear?
Do you not know that this palm, which I have caused to be transferred to
paradise, shall be prepared for all the saints in the place of delights, as it
has been prepared for us in this place of the wilderness? And they were
filled with joy; and being strengthened, they all rose up.
Where are the wonderful details of the birth of Jesus – the birth in a
manger, surrounded by domesticated farm animals?  In the  Gospel of
Pseudo-Matthew:
CHAP. 14.--And on the third day after the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ,
the most blessed Mary went forth out of the cave, and entering a stable,
placed the child in the stall, and the ox and the ass adored Him. Then was
fulfilled that which was said by Isaiah the prophet, saying: The ox knoweth
his owner, and the ass his master's crib. The very animals, therefore, the ox
and the ass, having Him in their midst, incessantly adored Him. Then was
fulfilled that which was said by Abacuc the prophet, saying64: Between two
animals thou art made manifest.  In the same place Joseph remained with
Mary three days.
This non-canonical account of Jesus speaking at birth is echoed also in the
Arabic Infancy Gospel of the Savior65:
1. We find (1) what follows in the book of Joseph the high priest, who lived
in the time of Christ. Some say that he is Caiaphas. (2) He has said that
Jesus spoke, and, indeed, when He was lying in His cradle said to Mary His
mother: I am Jesus, the Son of God, the Logos, whom thou hast brought
forth, as the Angel Gabriel announced to thee; and my Father has sent me
for the salvation of the world.
This account is found with some editing in Suratu Maryam of the Qur’an,
where Jesus speaks from the cradle:
19:29 19:30[Jesus] said, "Indeed, I am the servant of Allah . He has
given me the Scripture and made me a prophet. 19:31 And He has

JESUS † The Complete Biography
made me blessed wherever I am and has enjoined upon me prayer
and zakah as long as I remain alive…”
That Jesus spoke from the cradle is also confirmed in Suratu’l-‘Imran and
Suratu’l-Ma’idah of the Qur’an, the former of which also states that this
was part of the angelic annunciation to Mary:
3:45[And mention] when the angels said, "O Mary, indeed Allah gives you
good tidings of a word from Him, whose name will be the Messiah, Jesus,
the son of Mary - distinguished in this world and the Hereafter and among
those brought near [to Allah ].  3:46 He will speak to the people in the
cradle and in maturity and will be of the righteous."
5:110 [The Day] when Allah will say, "O Jesus, Son of Mary, remember My
favor upon you and upon your mother when I supported you with the Pure
Spirit and you spoke to the people in the cradle and in maturity;
The birth of Apollonius of Tyana furnishes an apt comparison with that of
Jesus66:
Now he is said to have been born in a meadow, hard by which there has
been now erected a sumptuous temple to him; and let us not pass by the
manner of his birth. For just as the hour of his birth was approaching, his
mother was warned in a dream to walk out into the meadow and pluck the
flowers; and in due course she came there and her maids attended to the
flowers, scattering themselves over the meadow, while she fell asleep lying
on the grass.
Thereupon the swans who fed in the meadow set up a dance around her as
she slept, and lifting their wings, as they are wont to do, cried out aloud all
at once, for there was somewhat of a breeze blowing in the meadow. She
then leaped up at the sound of their song and bore her child, for any
sudden fright is apt to bring on a premature delivery.
But the people of the country say that just at the moment of the birth, a
thunderbolt seemed about to fall to earth and then rose up into the air and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
disappeared aloft; and the gods thereby indicated,  I think, the great
distinction to which the sage was to attain, and hinted in advance how he
should  transcend  all  things  upon  earth  and  approach  the  gods,  and
signified all the things that he would achieve.
Much has been made of Jesus’ relationship with his mother Mary.  Every
child has a special relationship with mother, and so did he.  She was not a
single mother, so he did not grow up feeling the lack of a father.  By all
accounts Joseph was a good man and a good father.  But Mary did not dote on
Jesus, although the annunciations of the angels in Matthew and Luke might
suggest that she would have treated him with kid gloves.  Mary had other
children to attend to as well as Jesus, and Jesus would have spent most of his
day with his father after he was old enough to follow him around and make
himself useful.  What Jesus displayed from the earliest accounts of his life, is a
sensitivity to women’s feelings that may well have been uncommon at that
time.  That is not to say that Joseph did not go out of his way to care for his
wife Mary – again, the canonical and especially the non-canonical gospels
indicate that he did.
Flight to Egypt
According to the Arabic Infancy Gospel of the Savior (paragraph 5)67
and  the  Gospel  of  Pseudo-Matthew  (chapter  15)68,  Jesus  and  his
parents did not immediately leave Bethlehem for Egypt.  His version of the
story is considerably more leisurely…after three days, they left the cave and
entered a stall, which they shared with the animals, cited above…after
another three days they entered Bethlehem, where they spent the seventh
day, and then, on the eighth day, they circumcised Jesus:
5. And the time of circumcision, that is, the eighth day, being at hand, the
child  was  to  be  circumcised  according  to  the  law.  Wherefore  they
circumcised Him in the cave. And the old Hebrew woman took the piece of
skin; but some say that she took the navel-string, and laid it past in a jar of
old oil of nard. And she had a son, a dealer in unguents, and she gave it to
him, saying: See that thou do not sell this jar of unguent of nard, even
although three hundred denarii (5) should be offered thee for it. And this
is that jar which Mary the sinner bought and poured upon the head and
feet of our Lord Jesus Christ, which thereafter she wiped with the hair of
her head. (1) Ten days after, they took Him to Jerusalem; and on the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
fortieth day (2) after His birth they carried Him into the temple, and set
Him before the Lord, and offered sacrifices for Him, according to the
command-meet of the law of Moses, which is: Every male that openeth the
womb shall be called the holy of God. (3)
CHAP. 15.--And on the sixth day they entered Bethlehem, where they
spent the seventh day. And on the eighth day they circumcised the child,
and called His name Jesus; for so He was called by the angel before He
was conceived in the womb.  Now, after the days of the purifiation of Mary
were fulfilled according to the law of Moses, then Joseph took the infant
to the temple of the Lord. And when the infant had received parhithomus,
--parhithomus, that is, circumcision--they offered for Him a pair of turtle-
doves, or two young pigeons.
The  second  chapter  of  the  Gospel  of  Luke corroborates  the  latter
account, virtually word for word:
21And when eight days were accomplished for the circumcising of the child,
his name was called JESUS, which was so named of the angel before he
was conceived in the womb.  22And when the days of her purification
according to the law of Moses were accomplished, they brought him to
Jerusalem, to present him to the Lord; 23(As it is written in the law of the
Lord, Every male that openeth the womb shall be called holy to the Lord;)
24And to offer a sacrifice according to that which is said in the law of the
Lord, A pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons.
According to the Torah (Vayikra/Leviticus 12:1-4), the mother is unclean
for a total of 40 days, so even though the circumcision at the temple in
Jerusalem would have occurred on the 8th day after the birth, Mary would
not have entered the temple at all, because the time of her purification was
not yet fulfilled.  Hence, the non-canonical gospel was more precise in
indicating that Joseph brought Jesus to the temple for circumcision.  As
Mary and Joseph were poor, the Torah (Vayikra/Leviticus 12:8) permitted
them to bring as an offering either a pair of turtledoves or or young
pigeons.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
While they were still in Jerusalem, Mary and Joseph met two prophetic
Jews  –  a  man,  Simeon,  and  a  woman,  Anna.   Both  of  them  made
extraordinary predictions about their newborn son.  These stories are told
in the  Gospel of Luke, chapter 2 and also  in the  Arabic Infancy
Gospel  of  the  Savior,  number  6, and  the  Gospel  of  Pseudo-
Matthew, chapter 15:
25 And, behold, there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon; and
the same man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel:
and the Holy Ghost was upon him.  26 And it was revealed unto him by the
Holy Ghost, that he should not see death, before he had seen the Lord's
Christ.  27 And he came by the Spirit into the temple: and when the parents
brought in the child Jesus, to do for him after the custom of the law,
28 Then took he him up in his arms, and blessed God, and said,  29 Lord, now
lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy word:  30 For
mine eyes have seen thy salvation, 31 Which thou hast prepared before the
face of all people;  32 A light to lighten the Gentiles, and the glory of thy
people Israel.  33 And Joseph and his mother marvelled at those things
which were spoken of him.  34 And Simeon blessed them, and said unto
Mary his mother, Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again of
many in Israel; and for a sign which shall be spoken against;  35 (Yea, a
sword shall pierce through thy own soul also,) that the thoughts of many
hearts may be revealed.
36 And there was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the
tribe of Aser: she was of a great age, and had lived with an husband seven
years from her virginity;  37 And she was a widow of about fourscore and
four years, which departed not from the temple, but served God with
fastings and prayers night and day.  38 And she coming in that instant gave
thanks likewise unto the Lord, and spake of him to all them that looked for
redemption in Jerusalem.
//
6. Then old Simeon saw Him shining like a pillar of light, when the Lady
Mary, His virgin mother, rejoicing over Him, was carrying Him in her arms.
And angels, praising Him, stood round Him in a circle, like life guards
standing by a king. Simeon therefore went up in haste to the Lady Mary,
and, with hands stretched out before her, said to the Lord Christ: Now, O

JESUS † The Complete Biography
my Lord, let Thy servant depart in peace, according to Thy word; for mine
eyes  have  seen  Thy  compassion,  which  Thou  hast  prepared  for  the
salvation of all peoples, a light to all nations, and glory to Thy people
Israel. Hanna also, a prophetess, was present, and came up, giving thanks
to God, and calling the Lady Mary blessed. (4)
//
Now there was in the temple a man of God, perfect and just, whose name
was Symeon, a hundred and twelve years old. He had received the answer
from the Lord, that he should not taste of death till he had seen Christ,
the Son of God, living in the flesh. And having seen the child, he cried out
with a loud voice, saying: God hath visited His people, and the Lord hath
fulfilled His promise. And he made haste, and adored Him. And after this
he took Him up into his cloak and kissed His feet, and said: Lord, now
lettest Thou Thy servant depart in peace, according to Thy word: for mine
eyes have seen Thy salvation, which Thou hast prepared before the face
of all peoples, to be a light to lighten the Gentiles, and the glory of Thy
people  Israel.   There  was  also  in  the  temple  of  the  Lord,  Anna,  a
prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher, who had lived
with her husband seven years from her virginity; and she had now been a
widow eighty-four years. And she never left the temple of the Lord, but
spent her time in fasting and prayer. She also likewise adored the child,
saying: In Him is the redemption of the world.
At this point, the second chapter of the Gospel of Luke has Mary and
Joseph and their baby Jesus returning to Nazareth:
2:39 And when they had performed all things according to the law of the
Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own city Nazareth.
The Gospel of Pseudo-Matthew did not place the visit of the Magi at
the time of Jesus’ birth…it says it occurred two years after the birth:
CHAP. 16.--And when the second year was past,  Magi came from the east
to Jerusalem, bringing great gifts. And they made strict inquiry of the
Jews, saying: Where is the king who has been born to you? for we have

JESUS † The Complete Biography
seen his star in the east, and have come to worship him. And word of this
came to King Herod, and so alarmed him that he called together the
scribes and the Pharisees, and the teachers of the people, asking of them
where the prophets had foretold that Christ should be born. And they
said: In Bethlehem of Judah. For it is written: And thou Bethelehem, in the
land of Judah, art by no means the least among the princes of Judah; for
out of thee shall come forth a Leader who shall rule my people Israel.
Then King Herod summoned the magi to him, and strictly inquired of them
when the star appeared to them. Then, sending them to Bethlehem, he
said: Go and make strict inquiry about the child; and when ye have found
him, bring me word again, that I may come and worship him also. And while
the magi were going on their way, there appeared to them the star, which
was, as it were, a guide to them, going before them until they came to where
the child was. And when the magi saw the star, they rejoiced with great joy;
and going into the house, they saw the child Jesus sitting in His mother's
lap. Then they opened their treasures, and presented great gifts to the
blessed Mary and Joseph. And to the child Himself they offered each of
them a piece of gold.  And likewise one gave gold, another frankincense,
and the third myrrh.  And when they were going to return to King Herod,
they were warned by an angel in their sleep not to go back to Herod; and
they returned to their own country by another road.  CHAP. 17--And when
Herod  saw that he had been made sport of by the magi, his heart swelled
with rage, and he sent through all the roads, wishing to seize them and put
them to death. But when he could not find them at all; he sent anew to
Bethlehem and all its borders, and slew all the male children whom he
found of two years old and under, according to the time that he had
ascertained from the magi.
Perhaps this non-canonical gospel dates the visit of the Magi and the
subsequent flight into Egypt to two years after the birth of Jesus because of
the command of King Herod to kill all infant boys two years old and
younger, as found both in chapter 17 of the Gospel of Pseudo-Matthew
and in chapter 2 of Gospel of Matthew:
CHAP. 17--And when Herod [5] saw that he had been made sport of by
the magi, his heart swelled with rage, and he sent through all the roads,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
wishing to seize them and put them to death. But when he could not find
them at all; he sent anew to Bethlehem and all its borders, and slew all the
male children whom he found of two years old and under, according to the
time that he had ascertained from the magi. [6]  Now the day before this
was done Joseph was warned in his sleep by the angel of the Lord, who
said to him: Take Mary and the child, and go into Egypt by the way of the
desert. And joseph went according to the saying of the angel. [7]
2:16 Then Herod, when he saw that he was mocked of the wise men, was
exceeding wroth, and sent forth, and slew all the children that were in
Bethlehem, and in all the coasts thereof, from two years old and under,
according to the time which he had diligently inquired of the wise men.
In chapters 22 through 24 of the Protoevangelium of James, the father
of John the Baptist fell victim to King Herod’s purge, because he hid his
son John even as Joseph had taken Mary and Jesus to Egypt69:
22. And when Herod knew that he had been mocked by the Magi, in a rage
he sent murderers, saying to them: Slay the children from two years old
and under. And Mary, having heard that the children were being killed, was
afraid, and took the infant and swaddled Him, and put Him into an ox-stall.
And Elizabeth, having heard that they were searching for John, took him
and went up into the hill-country, and kept looking where to conceal him.
And there was no place of concealment. And Elizabeth, groaning with a
loud  voice,  says:  O mountain  of  God,  receive  mother  and  child. And
immediately the mountain was cleft, and received her. And a light shone
about them, for an angel of the Lord was with them, watching over them.
23. And Herod searched for John, and sent officers to Zacharias, saying:
Where have you hid your son? And he, answering, said to them: I am the
servant of God in holy things, and I sit constantly in the temple of the Lord:
I do not know where my son is. And the officers went away, and reported
all these things to Herod. And Herod was enraged, and said: His son is
destined to be king over Israel. And he sent to him again, saying: Tell the
truth; where is your son? for you know that your life is in my hand. And

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Zacharias said: I am God's martyr, if you shed my blood; for the Lord will
receive my spirit, because you shed innocent blood at the vestibule of the
temple of the Lord.  And Zacharias was murdered about daybreak. And
the sons of Israel did not know that he had been murdered.
24. But at the hour of the salutation the priests went away, and Zacharias
did not come forth to meet them with a blessing, according to his custom.
And the priests stood waiting for Zacharias to salute him at the prayer,
and to glorify the Most High. And he still delaying, they were all afraid. But
one of them ventured to go in, and he saw clotted blood beside the altar;
and he heard a voice saying: Zacharias has been murdered, and his blood
shall not be wiped up until his avenger come. And hearing this saying, he
was afraid, and went out and told it to the priests. And they ventured in,
and saw what had happened; and the fretwork of the temple made a
wailing noise, and they rent their clothes from the top even to the bottom.
And they found not his body, but they found his blood turned into stone.
And they were afraid, and went out and reported to the people that
Zacharias had been murdered. And all the tribes of the people heard, and
mourned, and lamented for him three days and three nights. And after the
three days, the priests consulted as to whom they should put in his place;
and the lot fell upon Simeon. For it was he who had been warned by the
Holy Spirit that he should not see death until he should see the Christ in
the flesh.
While the Arabic Infancy Gospel of the Savior refers to this slaughter
of the innocents by King Herod, it does not mention the time frame:
9. And when Herod saw that the magi had left him, and not come back to
him, he summoned the priests and the wise men, and said to them: Show me
where Christ is to be born. And when they answered, In Bethlehem of
Judaea, he began to think of putting the Lord Jesus Christ to death. Then
appeared an angel of the Lord to Joseph in his sleep, and said: Rise, take
the boy and His mother, and go away into Egypt. (7) He rose, therefore,
towards cockcrow, and set out.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Only one of the canonical Gospels reports the flight of Mary, Joseph and
Jesus to Egypt, chapter two of the Gospel of Matthew:
2:13  And  when  they  were  departed,  behold,  the  angel  of  the  Lord
appeareth to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise, and take the young child
and his mother, and flee into Egypt, and be thou there until I bring thee
word: for Herod will seek the young child to destroy him.  2:14 When he
arose, he took the young child and his mother by night, and departed into
Egypt: 2:15 And was there until the death of Herod: that it might be fulfilled
which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, Out of Egypt have I
called my son.  2:16 Then Herod, when he saw that he was mocked of the
wise men, was exceeding wroth, and sent forth, and slew all the children
that were in Bethlehem, and in all the coasts thereof, from two years old
and under, according to the time which he had diligently enquired of the
wise men.  2:17 Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremy the
prophet, saying, 2:18  In Rama was there a voice heard, lamentation, and
weeping, and great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children, and would
not be comforted, because they are not.  2:19 But when Herod was dead,
behold, an angel of the Lord appeareth in a dream to Joseph in Egypt,
2:20 Saying, Arise, and take the young child and his mother, and go into
the land of Israel: for they are dead which sought the young child's life.
2:21 And he arose, and took the young child and his mother, and came into
the land of Israel.
In The History of Joseph the Carpenter70 we find a short account of
the flight into and return from Egypt:
8.  But  Satan  went  and  told  this  to  Herod  the  Great,  the  father  of
Archelaus. And it was this same Herod who ordered my friend and relative
John to be beheaded. Accordingly he searched for me diligently, thinking
that my kingdom was to be of this world.  But Joseph, that pious old man,
was warned of this by a dream. Therefore he rose and took Mary my
mother, and I lay in her bosom. Salome also was their fellow-traveller.
Having therefore set out from home, he retired into Egypt, and remained
there the space of one whole year, until the hatred of Herod passed away.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
9. Now Herod died by the worst form of death, atoning for the shedding of
the blood of the children whom he wickedly cut off, though there was no
sin in them. And that impious tyrant Herod being dead, they returned into
the land of Israel, and lived in a city of Galilee which is called Nazareth. And
Joseph, going back to his trade of a carpenter, earned his living by the
work of his hands; for, as the law of Moses had commanded, he never
sought to live for nothing by another's labour.
In  another  of  the  non-canonical  gospels,  the  Gospel  of  Barnabas
(Chapters 8-9) 71 there is a short account of the sojourn in Egypt and return
to Nazareth:
Chapter VIII - Herod seeing that the Magi did not return, believed himself
mocked of them; whereupon he determined to put to death the child that
was born. But behold while Joseph was sleeping there appeared to him the
angel of the Lord, saying: 'Arise up quickly, and take the child with his
mother and go into Egypt for Herod willeth to slay him'. Joseph arose with
great fear, and took Mary with the child, and they went into Egypt, and
there they abode until the death of Herod: who, believing himself derided
of  the  magi,  sent  his  soldiers  to  slay  all  the  new-born  children  in
Bethlehem. The soldiers therefore came and slew all the children that were
there,

as

Herod

had

com-
manded them. Whereby were fulfilled the words of the prophet, saying:
'Lamentation and great weeping are there in Ramah; Rachel lamenteth for
her sons, but consolation is not given her because they are not.'
Chapter  IX  -  When  Herod  was  dead,  behold  the  angel  of  the  Lord
appeared in a dream to Joseph, saying: 'Return into Judaea, for they are
dead that willed the death of the child.' Joseph therefore took the child
with Mary (he having come to the age of seven years), and came to
Judaea; whence, hearing that Archelaus, son of Herod, was reigning in
Judaea, he went into Galilee, fearing to remain in Judaea; and they went to
dwell at Nazareth. The child grew in grace and wisdom before God and
before men.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
There are a few other non-canonical gospels which contain accounts of
Jesus’ infancy in Egypt, and they are  cited in full here for the purposes of
our study.
The second such source is the  Latin version of the  Infancy Gospel of
Thomas (Chapters 1-3)72:
1. When a commotion took place in consequence of the search made by
Herod for our Lord Jesus Christ to kill Him, then an angel said to Joseph:
Take Mary and her boy, and flee into Egypt from the face of those who
seek to kill Him. And Jesus was two years old when He went into Egypt.
And as He was walking through a field of corn, He stretched forth His
hand, and took of the ears, and put them over the fire, and rubbed them,
and began to eat.  And when they had come into Egypt, they received
hospitality in the house of a certain widow, and they remained in the same
place one year.  And Jesus was in His third year. And seeing boys playing,
He began to play with them. And He took a dried fish, and put it into a
basin, and ordered it to move about.  And it began to move about. And He
said again to the fish: Throw out thy salt which thou hast, and walk into the
water. And it so came to pass. And the neighbours, seeing what had been
done, told it to the widow woman in whose house Mary His mother lived.
And as soon as she heard it, she thrust them out of her house with great
haste.
2.  And as Jesus was walking with Mary His mother through the middle of
the city market-place, He looked and saw a schoolmaster teaching his
scholars.   And behold twelve sparrows that were quarrelling fell over the
wall into the bosom of that schoolmaster, who was teaching the boys. And
seeing this, Jesus was very much amused, and stood still. And when that
teacher, saw Him making merry, he said to his scholars with great fury: Go
and bring him to me. And when they  had carried Him to the master, he
seized Him by the ear, and said: What didst thou see, to amuse thee so
much? And He said to him: Master, see my hand full of wheat. I showed it
to them, and scattered the wheat among them, and they carry it out of the
middle of the street where they are in danger; and on this account they
fought among themselves to divide the wheat. And Jesus did not pass from

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the place until it was accomplished. And this being done, the master began
to thrust Him out of the city, along with His mother.
3.  And, lo, the angel of the Lord met Mary, and said to her: Take up the
boy, and return into the land of the Jews, for they who sought His life are
dead. And Mary rose up with Jesus; and they proceeded into the city of
Nazareth, which is among the possessions of her father. And when Joseph
went out of Egypt after the death of Herod, he kept Him in the desert until
there should be quietness in Jerusalem on the part of those who were
seeking the boy's life. And he gave thanks to God because He had given
him understanding, and because he had found favour in the presence of
the Lord God. Amen.
The Gospel  of  Pseudo-Matthew (Chapters  17-25)73 contains  many
details about this period:
CHAP. 17.--And when Herod saw that he had been made sport of by the
Magi, his heart swelled with rage, and he sent through all the roads, wishing
to seize them and put them to death. But when he could not find them at
all; he sent anew to Bethlehem and all its borders, and slew all the male
children whom he found of two years old and under, according to the time
that he had ascertained from the Magi.
Now the day before this was done Joseph was warned in his sleep by the
angel of the Lord, who said to him: Take Mary and the child, and go into
Egypt by the way of the desert. And Joseph went according to the saying
of the angel.
CHAP. 18.--And having come to a certain cave, and wishing to rest in it, the
blessed Mary dismounted from her beast, and sat down with the child
Jesus in her bosom. And there were with Joseph three boys, and with
Mary a girl, going on the journey along with them. And, lo, suddenly there
came forth from the cave many dragons; and when the children saw them,
they cried out in great terror. Then Jesus went down from the bosom of
His mother, and stood on His feet before the dragons; and they adored
Jesus, and thereafter retired. Then was fulfilled that which was said by

JESUS † The Complete Biography
David the prophet, saying: Praise the Lord from the earth, ye dragons; ye
dragons, and all ye deeps [9] And the young child Jesus, walking before
them, commanded them to hurt no man. But Mary and Joseph were very
much afraid lest the child should be hurt by the dragons. And Jesus said
to them: Do not be afraid, and do not consider me to be a little child; for I
am and always have been perfect; and all the beasts of the forest must
needs be tame before me.
CHAP. 19.--Lions and panthers adored Him likewise, and accompanied
them in the desert. Wherever Joseph and the blessed Mary went, they
went before them showing them the way, and bowing their heads; and
showing their submission by wagging their tails, they adored Him with great
reverence. Now at first, when Mary saw the lions and the panthers, and
various kinds of wild beasts, coming about them, she was very much afraid.
But the infant Jesus looked into her face with a joyful countenance, and
said: Be not afraid, mother; for they come not to do thee harm, but they
make haste to serve both thee and me. With these words He drove all fear
from her heart. And the lions kept walking with them, and with the oxen,
and the asses, and the beasts of burden which carried their baggage, and
did not hurt a single one of them, though they kept beside them; but they
were tame among the sheep and the rams which they had brought with
them from Judaea, and which they had with them. They walked among
wolves, and feared nothing; and no one of them was hurt by another. Then
was fulfilled that which was spoken by the prophet: Wolves shall feed with
lambs;  the  lion  and  the  ox  shall  eat  straw  together.  [10]  There  were
together two oxen drawing a wagon with provision for the journey, and the
lions directed them in their path.
CHAP. 20.-- And it came to pass on the third day of their journey, while
they were walking, that the blessed Mary was fatigued by the excessive
heat of the sun in the desert; and seeing a palm tree, she said to Joseph:
Let me rest a little under the shade of this tree. Joseph therefore made
haste, and led her to the palm, and made her come down from her beast.
And as the blessed Mary was sitting there, she looked up to the foliage of
the palm, and saw it full of fruit, and said to Joseph: I wish it were possible

JESUS † The Complete Biography
to get some of the fruit of this palm. And Joseph said to her: I wonder that
thou sayest this, when thou seest how high the palm tree is; and that thou
thinkest of eating of its fruit. I am thinking more of the want of water,
because the skins are now empty, and we have none wherewith to refresh
ourselves and our cattle. Then the child Jesus, with a joyful countenance,
reposing in the bosom of His mother, said to the palm: O tree, bend thy
branches, and refresh my mother with thy fruit. And immediately at these
words the palm bent its top down to the very feet of the blessed Mary; and
they gathered from it fruit, with which they were all refreshed. And after
they had gathered all its fruit, it remained bent down, waiting the order to
rise from Him who bad commanded it to stoop. Then Jesus said to it: Raise
thyself, O palm tree, and be strong, and be the companion of my trees,
which are in the paradise of my Father; and open from thy roots a vein of
water which has been hid in the earth, and let the waters flow, so that we
may be satisfied from thee. And it rose up immediately, and at its root
there began to come forth a spring of water exceedingly clear and cool
and sparkling. And when they saw the spring of water, they rejoiced with
great joy, and were satisfied, themselves and all their cattle and their
beasts. Wherefore they gave thanks to God.
CHAP. 21. -- And on the day after, when they were setting out thence, and
in the hour in which they began their journey, Jesus turned to the palm,
and said: This privilege I give thee, O palm tree, that one of thy branches
be carried away by my angels, and planted in the paradise of my Father.
And this blessing I will confer upon thee, that it shall be said of all who
conquer in any contest, You have attained the palm of victory. And while
He was thus speaking, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared, and stood
upon the palm tree; and taking off one of its branches, flew to heaven with
the branch in his hand. And when they saw this, they fell on their faces,
and became as it were dead. And Jesus said to them: Why are your hearts
possessed with fear? Do you not know that this palm, which I have caused
to be transferred to paradise, shall be prepared for all the saints in the
place of delights, as it has been prepared for us in this place of the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
wilderness? And they were filled with joy; and being strengthened, they all
rose up.
CHAP. 22.--After this, while they were going on their journey, Joseph said
to Jesus: Lord, it is a boiling heat; if it please Thee, let us go by the sea-
shore, that we may be able to rest in the cities on the coast. Jesus said to
him: Fear not, Joseph; I will shorten the way for you, so that what you
would have taken thirty days to go over, you shall accomplish in this one
day. And while they were thus speaking, behold, they looked forward, and
began to see the mountains and cities of Egypt.
And rejoicing and exulting, they came into the regions of Hermopolis, and
entered into a certain city of Egypt which is called Sotinen; and because
they knew no one there from whom they could ask hospitality, they went
into a temple which was called the Capitol of Egypt. And in this temple
there had been set up three hundred and fifty-five idols, to each of which
on  its  own  day  divine  honours  and  sacred  rites  were  paid.  For  the
Egyptians belonging to the same city entered the Capitol, in which the
priests told them how many sacrifices were offered each day, according to
the honour in which the god was held.
CHAP. 23.--And it came to pass, when the most blessed Mary went into
the temple with the little child, that all the idols prostrated themselves on
the ground, so that all of them were lying on their faces shattered and
broken to pieces; [3] and thus they plainly showed that they were nothing.
Then was fulfilled that which was said by the prophet Isaiah: Behold, the
Lord  will  come  upon  a  swift  cloud,  and  will  enter  Egypt,  and  all  the
handiwork of the Egyptians shall be moved at His presence.
CHAP. 24.--Then Affrodosius, that governor of the city, when news of
this was brought to him, went to the temple with all his army. And the
priests of the temple, when they saw Affrodosius with all his army coming
into the temple, thought that he was making haste only to see vengeance
taken on those on whose account the gods had fallen down. But when he
came into the temple, and saw all the gods lying prostrate on their faces,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
he went up to the blessed Mary, who was carrying the Lord in her bosom,
and adored Him, and said to all his army and all his friends: Unless this
were the God of our gods, our gods would not have fallen on their faces
before Him; nor would they be lying prostrate in His presence: wherefore
they silently confess that He is their Lord. Unless we, therefore, take care
to do what we have seen our gods doing, we may run the risk of His anger,
and all come to destruction, even as it happened to Pharaoh king of the
Egyptians, who, not believing in powers so mighty, was drowned in the sea,
with all his army.  Then all the people of that same city believed in the Lord
God through Jesus Christ.
CHAP. 25.--After no long time the angel said to Joseph: Return to the
land of Judah, for they are dead who sought the child's life.
The last and longest of those to be cited is the The Arabic Gospel of The
Infancy of The Saviour (Chapters 9-25)74, in a translation by Alexander
Roberts and James Donaldson, The Ante-Nicene Fathers (vol. VIII, pp.
404-415):
9. And when Herod saw that the magi had left him, and not come back to
him, he summoned the priests and the wise men, and said to them: Show me
where Christ is to be born. And when they answered, In Bethlehem of
Judaea, he began to think of putting the Lord Jesus Christ to death. Then
appeared an angel of the Lord to Joseph in his sleep, and said: Rise, take
the boy and His mother, and go away into Egypt. (7) He rose, therefore,
towards cockcrow, and set out.
10. While he is reflecting how be is to set about his journey, morning came
upon him after he had gone a very little way. And now he was approaching
a great city, in which there was an idol, to which the other idols and gods of
the Egyptians offered gifts and vows. And there stood before this idol a
priest ministering to him, who, as often as Satan spoke from that idol,
reported it to the inhabitants of Egypt and its territories. This priest had a
son,  three  years  old,  beset  by  several  demons;  and  he  made  many
speeches and utterances; and when the demons seized him, he tore his

JESUS † The Complete Biography
clothes, and remained naked, and threw stones at the people. And there
was a hospital in that city dedicated to that idol. And when Joseph and the
Lady Mary had come to the city, and had turned aside into that hospital,
the citizens were very much afraid; and all the chief men and the priests of
the idols came together to that idol, and said to it: What agitation and
commotion is this that has arisen in our land? The idol answered them: A
God has come here in secret, who is God indeed; nor is any god besides
Him worthy of divine worship, because He is truly the Son of God. And
when this land became aware of His presence, it trembled at His arrival,
and  was  moved  and  shaken;  and  we  are  exceedingly  afraid  from  the
greatness of His power. And in the same hour that idol fell down, and at its
fall all, inhabitants of Egypt and others, ran together.
11. And the son of the priest, his usual disease having come upon him,
entered the hospital, and there came upon Joseph and the Lady Mary,
from whom all others had fled. The Lady Mary had washed the cloths of
the Lord Christ, and had spread them over some wood. That demoniac
boy, therefore, came and took one of the cloths, and put it on his head.
Then the demons, fleeing in the shape of ravens and serpents, began to go
forth out of his mouth. The boy, being immediately healed at the command
of the Lord Christ, began to praise God, and then to give thanks to the
Lord who had healed him. And when his father saw him restored to health,
My son, said he, what has happened to thee? and by what means hast thou
been healed? The son answered: When the demons had thrown me on the
ground, I went into the hospital, and there I found an august woman with a
boy, whose newly-washed cloths she had thrown upon some wood: one of
these I took up and put upon my head, and the demons left me and fled. At
this the father rejoiced greatly, and said: My son, it is possible that this
boy is the Son of the living God who created the heavens and the earth:
for when he came over to us, the idol was broken, and all the gods fell, and
perished by the power of his magnificence.
12. Here was fulfilled the prophecy which says, Out of Egypt have I called
my son. (1) Joseph indeed, and Mary, when they heard that that idol had
fallen down and perished, trembled, and were afraid. Then they said: When

JESUS † The Complete Biography
we were in the land of Israel, Herod thought to put Jesus to death, and on
that account slew all the children of Bethlehem and its confines; and there
is no doubt that the Egyptians, as soon as they have heard that this idol
has been broken, will burn us with fire. (2)
13. Going out thence, they came to a place where there were robbers who
had plundered several men of their baggage and clothes, and had bound
them. Then the robbers heard a great noise, like the noise of a magnificent
king going out of his city with his army, and his chariots and his drums; and
at this the robbers were terrified, and left all their plunder. And their
captives rose up, loosed each other's bonds, recovered their baggage, and
went away. And when they saw Joseph and Mary coming up to the place,
they said to them: Where is that king, at the hearing of the magnificent
sound of whose approach the robbers have left us, so that we have
escaped safe? Joseph answered them: He will come behind us.
14. Thereafter they came into another city, where there was a demoniac
woman whom Satan, accursed and rebellious, had beset, when on one
occasion she had gone out by night for water. She could neither bear
clothes, nor live in a house; and as often as they tied her up with chains
and  thongs,  she  broke them,  and  fled  naked  into  waste  places;  and,
standing  in  cross-roads  and  cemeteries,  she  kept  throwing  stones  at
people, and brought very heavy calamities upon her friends. And when the
Lady Mary saw her, she pitied her; and upon this Satan immediately left
her, and fled away in the form of a young man, saying: Woe to me from
thee, Mary, and from thy son. So that woman was cured of her torment,
and  being  restored  to  her  senses,  she  blushed  on  account  of  her
nakedness; and shunning the sight of men, went home to her friends. And
after she put on her clothes, she gave an account of the matter to her
father and her friends; and as they were the chief men of the city, they
received  the  Lady  Mary  and  Joseph  with  the  greatest  honour  and
hospitality.
15. On the day after, being supplied by them with provision for their
journey, they went away, and on the evening of that day arrived at another

JESUS † The Complete Biography
town,  in  which  they  were  celebrating  a  marriage;  but,  by  the  arts  of
accursed Satan and the work of enchanters, the bride had become dumb,
and could not speak a word. And after the Lady Mary entered the town,
carrying her son the Lord Christ, that dumb bride saw her, and stretched
out her hands towards the Lord Christ, and drew Him to her, and took Him
into her arms, and held Him close and kissed Him, and leaned over Him,
moving His body back and forwards. Immediately the knot of her tongue
was loosened, and her ears were opened; and she gave thanks and praise
to  God,  because He  had restored  her  to  health.  And that  night  the
inhabitants of that town exulted with joy, and thought that God and His
angels had come down to them.
16. There they remained three days, being held in great honour, and living
splendidly. Thereafter, being supplied by them with provision for their
journey, they went away and came to another city, in which, because it was
very populous, they thought of passing the night. And there was in that
city an excellent woman: and once, when she had gone to the river to
bathe, lo, accursed Satan, in the form of a serpent, had leapt upon her,
and twisted himself round her belly; and as often as night came on, he
tyrannically tormented her. This woman, seeing the mistress the Lady
Mary, and the child, the Lord Christ, in her bosom, was struck with a
longing for Him, and said to the mistress the Lady Mary: O mistress, give
me this child, that I may carry him, and kiss him. She therefore gave Him to
the woman; and when He was brought to her, Satan let her go, and fled and
left her, nor did the woman ever see him after that day. Wherefore all who
were present praised God Most High, and that woman bestowed on them
liberal gifts
17. On the day after, the same woman took scented water to wash the Lord
Jesus; and after she had washed Him, she took the water with which she
had done it, and poured part of it upon a girl who was living there, whose
body was white with leprosy, and washed her with it. And as soon as this
was done, the girl was cleansed from her leprosy. And the towns- people
said: There is no doubt that Joseph and Mary and that boy are gods, not
men. And when they were getting ready to go away from them, the girl who

JESUS † The Complete Biography
had laboured under the leprosy came up to them, and asked them to let
her go with them.
18.  When  they  had  given  her  permission,  she  went  with  them.  And
afterwards they came to a city, in which was the castle of a most illustrious
prince, who kept a house for the entertainment of strangers. They turned
into this place; and the girl went away to the prince's wife; and she found
her weeping and sorrowful, and she asked why she was weeping. Do not
be surprised, said she, at my tears; for I am overwhelmed by a great
affliction, which as yet I have not endured to tell to any one. Perhaps, said
the girl, if you reveal it and disclose it to me, I may have a remedy for it.
Hide this secret, then, replied the princess, and tell it to no one. I was
married to this prince, who is a king and ruler over many cities, and I lived
long with him, but by me he had no son. And when at length I produced him
a son, he was leprous; and as soon as he saw him, he turned away with
loathing, and said to me: Either kill him, or give him to the nurse to be
brought up in some place from which we shall never hear of him more. After
this I can have nothing to do with thee, and I will never see thee more. On
this account I know not what to do, and I am overwhelmed with grief. Alas!
my son. Alas! my husband. Did I not say so? said the girl. I have found a
cure for thy disease, and I shall tell it thee. For I too was a leper; but I was
cleansed by God, who is Jesus, the son of the Lady Mary. And the woman
asking her where this God was whom she had spoken of, Here, with thee,
said the girl; He is living in the same house. But how is this possible? said
she. Where is he? There, said the girl, are Joseph and Mary; and the child
who is with them is called Jesus; and He it is who cured me of my disease
and my torment. But by what means, said she, wast thou cured of thy
leprosy? Wilt thou not tell me that? Why not? said the girl. I got from His
mother the water in which He had been washed, and poured it over myself;
and so I was cleansed from my leprosy. Then the princess rose up, and
invited them to avail themselves of her hospitality. And she prepared a
splendid banquet for Joseph in a great assembly of the men of the place.
And on the following day she took scented water with which to wash the
Lord Jesus, and thereafter poured the same water over her son, whom she

JESUS † The Complete Biography
had taken with her; and immediately her son was cleansed from his leprosy.
Therefore, singing thanks and praises to God, she said: Blessed is the
mother who bore thee, O Jesus; dost thou so cleanse those who share the
same nature with thee with the water in which thy body has been washed?
Besides, she bestowed great gifts upon the mistress the Lady Mary, and
sent her away with great honour.
19. Coming thereafter to another city, they wished to spend the night in it.
They turned aside, therefore, to the house of a man newly married, but
who, under the influence of witchcraft, was not able to enjoy his wife; and
when they had spent that night with him, his bond was loosed. And at
daybreak,  when  they  were  girding  themselves  for  their  journey,  the
bridegroom would not let them go, and prepared for them a great banquet.
20. They set out, therefore, on the following day; and as they came near
another  city,  they  saw  three  women  weeping  as  they  came  out  of  a
cemetery. And when the Lady Mary beheld them, she said to the girl who
accompanied her: Ask them what is the matter with them, or what calamity
has befallen them. And to the girl's questions they made no reply, but
asked in their turn: Whence are you, and whither are you going? for the
day is already past, and night is coming on apace. We are travellers, said
the girl, and are seeking a house of entertainment in which we may pass the
night. They said: Go with us, and spend the night with us. They followed
them,  therefore,  and  were  brought  into  a  new  house  with  splendid
decorations and furniture. Now it was winter; and the girl, going into the
chamber of these women, found them again weeping and lamenting. There
stood beside them a mule, covered with housings of cloth of gold, and
sesame was put before him; and the women were kissing him, and giving him
food. And the gift said: What is all the ado, my ladies, about this mule?
They answered her with tears, and said: This mule, which thou seest, was
our brother, born of the same mother with ourselves. And when our father
died, and left us great wealth, and this only brother, we did our best to get
him married, and were preparing his nuptials for him, after the manner of
men. But some women, moved by mutual jealousy, bewitched him unknown
to us; and one night, a little before daybreak, when the door of our house

JESUS † The Complete Biography
was shut, we saw that this our brother had been turned into a mule, as thou
now beholdest him. And we are sorrowful, as thou seest, having no father
to comfort us: there is no wise man, or magician, or enchanter in the world
that we have omitted to send for; but nothing has done us any good. And
as often as our hearts are overwhelmed with grief, we rise and go away with
our mother here, and weep at our father's grave, and come back again.
21. And when the girl heard these things, Be of good courage, said she,
and weep not: for the cure of your calamity is near; yea, it is beside you,
and in the middle of your own house. For I also was a leper; but when I saw
that woman, and along with her that young child, whose name is Jesus, I
sprinkled my body with the water with which His mother had washed Him,
and I was cured. And I know that He can cure your affliction also. But rise,
go to Mary my mistress; bring her into your house, and tell her your secret;
and entreat and supplicate her to have pity upon yon. After the woman
had heard the girl's words, they went in haste to the Lady Mary, and
brought her into their chamber, and sat down before her weeping, and
saying: O our mistress, Lady Mary, have pity on thy hand-maidens; for no
one older than ourselves, and no head of the family, is left- -neither father
nor  brother--to  live  with  us;  but  this  mule  which  thou  seest  was  our
brother, and women have made him such as thou seest by witchcraft. We
beseech thee, therefore, to have pity upon us. Then, grieving at their lot,
the Lady Mary took up the Lord Jesus, and put Him on the mule's back;
and she wept as well as the women, and said to Jesus Christ: Alas! my son,
heal this mule by Thy mighty power, and make him a man endowed with
reason as he was before. And when these words were uttered by the Lady
Mary, his form was changed, and the mule became a young man, free from
every defect. Then he and his mother and his sisters adored the Lady
Mary, and lifted the boy above their heads, and began to kiss Him, saying:
Blessed is she that bore Thee, O Jesus, O Saviour of the world; blessed
are the eyes which enjoy the felicity of seeing Thee.
22. Moreover, both the sisters said to their mother: Our brother indeed,
by the aid of the Lord Jesus Christ, and by the salutary intervention of
this girl, who pointed out to us Mary and her son, has been raised to

JESUS † The Complete Biography
human form. Now, indeed, since our brother is unmarried, it would do very
well for us to give him as his wife this girl, their servant. And having asked
the Lady Mary, and obtained her consent, they made a splendid wedding
for the girl; and their sorrow being changed into joy, and the beating of
their breasts into dancing, they began to be glad, to rejoice, to exult, and
sing--adorned,  on  account  of  their  great  joy,  in  most  splendid  and
gorgeous attire. Then they began to recite songs and praises, and to say:
O  Jesus,  son  of  David,  who  turnest  sorrow  into  gladness,  and
lamentations into joy! And Joseph and Mary remained there ten clays.
Thereafter they set out, treated with great honours by these people, who
bade them farewell, and from bidding them farewell returned weeping,
especially the girl.
23. And turning away from this place, they came to a desert; and hearing
that it was infested by robbers, Joseph and the Lady Mary resolved to
cross this region by night. But as they go along, behold, they see two
robbers lying in the way, and along with them a great number of robbers,
who were their associates, sleeping. Now those two robbers, into whose
hands they had fallen, were Titus and Dumachus. Titus therefore said to
Dumachus: I beseech thee to let these persons go freely, and so that our
comrades may not see them. And as Dumachus refused, Titus said to him
again: Take to thyself forty drachmas from me, and hold this as a pledge.
At the same time he held out to him the belt which he had about his waist,
to keep him from opening his mouth or speaking. And the Lady Mary,
seeing that the robber had done them a kindness, said to him: The Lord
God will sustain thee by His right hand, and will grant thee remission of thy
sins. And the Lord Jesus answered, and said to His mother: Thirty years
hence, O my mother, the Jews will crucify me at Jerusalem, and these two
robbers will be raised upon the cross along with me, Titus on my right hand
and Dumachus on my left; and after that day Titus shall go before me into
Paradise. And she said: God keep this from thee, my son. And they went
thence towards a city of idols, which, as they came near it, was changed
into sand-hills.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
24. Hence they turned aside to that sycamore which is now called Matarea,
and the Lord Jesus brought forth in Matarea a fountain in which the Lady
Mary washed His shirt. And from the sweat of the Lord Jesus which she
sprinkled there, balsam was produced in that region.
25. Thence they came down to Memphis, and saw Pharaoh, and remained
three years in Egypt; and the Lord Jesus did in Egypt very many miracles
which are recorded neither in the Gospel of the Infancy nor in the perfect
Gospel.
In contrast to the story of Jesus, Apollonius of Tyana sojourned in Egypt as
an  adult,  according  to  chapters  1-10  of  book  VI  of  his  biography  by
Philostratus.   Philo Judaeus,  another  contemporary of Jesus lived his
whole life, with the exception of a visit to Rome, in Alexandria, Egypt, from
25 BCE to 50 CE75.  Titus Flavius Josephus, born in 37 CE and deceased
circa 100 CE, was of a later but overlapping generation, and he spent his
youth in Judaea and from 71 CE onwards mostly in Rome, first as a slave
and then as a freed servant of the Emperor.  He is not reported to have
spent any time in Egypt…but his third wife was an Alexandrian Jew.  He
wrote about both Jesus and Philo Judaeus but not Apollonius of Tyana, as
he is known only to have written about Jews.  He was also regarded by the
Roman Emperor of the time and a number of others as a sort of prophet:
“It was while being confined at Yodfat (Jotapata) that Josephus claimed to
have experienced a divine revelation, that later led to his speech predicting
Vespasian would become emperor. After the prediction came true, he was
released by Vespasian, who considered his gift of prophecy to be divine.
Josephus wrote that his revelation had taught him three things: that God,
the creator of the Jewish people, had decided to "punish" them, that
"fortune" had been given to the Romans, and that God had chosen him "to
announce the things that are to come"76
Jesus of Nazareth, son of Joseph
As  we  read  previously,  the  second  chapter  of  the  Gospel  of  Luke
continues with the story of Jesus when he returns from Jerusalem to
Nazareth:
2:39 And when they had performed all things according to the law of the
Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own city Nazareth. 2:40 And the
child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom: and the grace of
God was upon him.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Without any indication of how long the family spent in Egypt, the second
chapter of the Gospel of Matthew also reports their return to Nazareth:
2:17Then  was  fulfilled  that  which  was  spoken  by  Jeremy the  prophet,
saying, 2:18 In Rama was there a voice heard, lamentation, and weeping, and
great  mourning,  Rachel  weeping for her  children,  and  would  not  be
comforted, because they are not. 2:19 But when Herod was dead, behold,
an angel of the Lord appeareth in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, 2:20
Saying, Arise, and take the young child and his mother, and go into the
land of Israel: for they are dead which sought the young child's life. 2:21
And he arose, and took the young child and his mother, and came into the
land of Israel. 2:22 But when he heard that Archelaus did reign in Judaea in
the room of his father Herod, he was afraid to go thither: notwithstanding,
being  warned  of  God  in  a  dream,  he  turned  aside  into  the  parts  of
Galilee: 2:23 And he came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth: that it might
be  fulfilled  which  was  spoken  by  the  prophets,  He  shall  be  called  a
Nazarene.
Jesus  grew  up  in  Nazareth,  this  is  agreed  upon  by  all  the  Gospels.
However, the synoptic Gospels do not call him the “son of Joseph”.  For
example,  consider  the  way  in  which  the  Gospel  of  Luke begins  its
genealogy of Jesus:
3:23 And Jesus himself began to be about thirty years of age, being (as
was supposed) the son of Joseph…
The only case in which a follower of Jesus is reported to have referred to
him  as  the  “son  of  Joseph”  is  a  single  discourse  in  which  Philip  of
Bethsaida (the hometown of Peter and his brother Andrew), describes
Jesus to Nathaniel, as described in the Gospel of John:
1:45 Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith unto him, We have found him, of
whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, did write, Jesus of Nazareth, the
son of Joseph.
There is also one case in which a group of Jews who are not followers of
Jesus, refer to him as the “son of Joseph”.  The incident takes place on the
eastern shore of the sea of Galilee (called Lake Kinneret in Israel) , and it is
reported in the Gospel of Luke:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
4:22  And they said, Is not this Joseph's son?
The same is found in the Gospel of John:
6:42 And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and
mother we know? how is it then that he saith, I came down from heaven?
In the same context,  the Gospel of Mark first and the  Gospel of
Matthew second have Jews referring to Jesus as the “son of Mary”:
6:3  Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James, and
Joses, and of Juda, and Simon? and are not his sisters here with us?...
13:55  Is not this the carpenter's son? is not his mother called Mary? and his
brethren, James, and Joses, and Simon, and Judas? 13:56 And his sisters,
are they not all with us?
The  significance  of  the  father  of  Jesus  being  named  Joseph  may  be
embedded in Jewish history and eschatology.  The name Jesus in Hebrew
is  “Yeshu’a”,  meaning  “Yah  saves”.   “Yah”  is  short  for  “YHWH”,  the
virtually  unpronounced  name  of  God  referred  to  by  many  modern
observant Jews as “HaShem”, meaning “the Name”.  Hence, the meaning
of naming this particular son of Israel “Yah saves” is that he will be a savior
to the sons of Israel, even as Joshua, “Yehoshu’a” in Hebrew, meaning
“YHWH saves” was the one who lead the fractious descendants of the
twelve sons of Yakov back into their “promised land”.   Joseph, “Yosef” in
Hebrew, was the chosen son of Yakov who saved them and their father
from  starvation,  who  provided  for  the  protection  of  his  brothers  by
arranging for their emigration from the land of Israel to a particularly
fecund region in Egypt.  He also pardoned his brothers for their former
murderous treachery towards him.  He was in effect the “father” of the
Israelites living outside of Israel.
But  the  Jewish  resonance  goes  deeper…in  the  prophets  there  are
references to a “suffering Messiah”, chiefly in chapters 52 and 53 of the
Book of Isaiah.  These references seem to have led to the development of a
parallel messianic tradition, recorded  in the Talmud and later Jewish
literature,  to  the  standard  Davidic  Messiah.   This  tradition  came  to
describe their expected leader as “Mashiach ben Yosef”, the Messiah son of
Joseph, descended from the lineage perhaps and the character definitely of
the Biblical son of Yakov.  It is a very robust tradition, finding development
not  only  in  the  Talmud  but  in  the  Targum,  the  Midrash,  the  Sefer
Zerubbabel,  Testaments  of  the  Twelve  Patriarchs,  Otot  ha-Mashiach,
Nistarot Rav Shim’on ben Yohai, the Zohar, and Kol ha-Tor, among others.
Indeed, the less likely it seemed for the sons of Israel to reclaim possession

JESUS † The Complete Biography
of their land and revive their national community, the more this messianic
tradition caught on and penetrated into the souls of the Jewish people.
While most of the literature cited here postdated the gospels and the
advent of Christianity, its roots were definitely in the Book of Isaiah, which
predated the modern era by several centuries.  Furthermore, some of the
literature found in the Qumran caves was written in this tradition.  “The
poly-messianic Testimonia text 4Q175 presents a prophet similar to Moses,
a messianic figure and a priestly teacher.[8]:  89 The Testamonia contains
four  testimonium.[9] The  fourth  testimonium  is  about  Joshua and  is
generally viewed as non-messianic. However Alan Avery-Peck suggests
that given its placement in the text concerning Joshua should be read as
referencing a war messiah from Ephraim. It is dated to the early 1st
century BCE.[8]:   1QS lists a Messiah of Israel, a prophet and a priestly
Messiah of Aaron.[10] 1QS dates from around 100 BCE.77
For those Jews who were particularly attracted to this messianic tradition,
Jesus may well have appeared to be a promising contender.  Much as been
made of the references to Mashiach ben David in the canonical gospels, but
perhaps more attention should be paid to the Mashiach ben Yosef tradition
and the signs, some of the subtle and indirect, in the texts that may point
in that direction.  While there was definitely disappointment articulated by
Jewish contemporaries of Jesus, even by some of his followers, such as
Simon Peter, Boanerges (sons of Zebedee) and Simon the Zealot, that
Jesus did not fulfill their expectations of Mashiach ben David – he was not
a warrior king leading his followers to conquer all of Judaea and beyond
that to restore the united kingdom of David and Solomon.  He was not the
miraculous messiah king who would conquer the world, so that all nations
would stream to Mount Zion to pay tribute to him and to his God.  But
surely there were also contemporaries, including some of his disciples,
such as the disciple who loved him, such as Mary Magdalene, such as Mary
and Martha and Lazarus, who understood him in a different way and were
not at all disappointed.  For them perhaps he was every bit the fulfillment
of the Mashiach ben Yosef that they expected, and the dearer to their
hearts because of his gentle ways, and his emphasis on love rather than
ferocity, on persuasion rather than coercion.
Growing up in Galilee
Apart from this identification of Jesus as the “son of Joseph” and the “son
of Mary”, there are no details in the canonical Gospels about Jesus growing
up in Nazareth.   On the other hand, there are numerous non-canonical
Gospel accounts of incidents occurring during those years.
The  Infancy Gospel  of  Thomas  (Greek  text  A)78 contains  many
stories about his childhood in the Galilee:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The stories of Thomas the Israelite, the Philosopher, concerning the works
of the Childhood of the Lord.
I. I, Thomas the Israelite, tell unto you, even all the brethren that are of the
Gentiles, to make known unto you the works of the childhood of our Lord
Jesus Christ and his mighty deeds, even all that he did when he was born in
our land: whereof the beginning is thus:
II. 1 This little child Jesus when he was five years old was playing at the ford
of a brook: and he gathered together the waters that flowed there into
pools, and made them straightway clean, and commanded them by his word
alone. 2 And having made soft clay, he fashioned thereof twelve sparrows.
And it was the Sabbath when he did these things (or made them). And
there were also many other little children playing with him. 3 And a certain
Jew when he saw what Jesus did, playing upon the Sabbath day, departed
straightway and told his father Joseph: Lo, thy child is at the brook, and
he hath taken clay and fashioned twelve little birds, and hath polluted the
Sabbath day. 4 And Joseph came to the place and saw: and cried out to
him, saying: Wherefore doest thou these things on the Sabbath, which it is
not lawful to do? But Jesus clapped his hands together and cried out to
the sparrows and said to them: Go! and the sparrows took their flight and
went away chirping. 5 And when the Jews saw it they were amazed, and
departed and told their chief men that which they had seen Jesus do.
III. 1 But the son of Annas the scribe was standing there with Joseph; and
he took a branch of a willow and dispersed the waters which Jesus had
gathered together. 2 And when Jesus saw what was done, he was wroth
and said unto him: O evil, ungodly, and foolish one, what hurt did the pools
and the waters do thee? behold, now also thou shalt be withered like a
tree, and shalt not bear leaves, neither root, nor fruit. 3 And straightway
that lad withered up wholly, but Jesus departed and went unto Joseph's
house. But the parents of him that was withered took him up, bewailing his
youth, and brought him to Joseph, and accused him 'for that thou hast
such a child which doeth such deeds.'

JESUS † The Complete Biography
IV. 1 After that again he went through the village, and a child ran and
dashed against his shoulder. And Jesus was provoked and said unto him:
Thou shalt not finish thy course (lit. go all thy way). And immediately he fell
down and died. But certain when they saw what was done said: Whence
was this young child born, for that every word of his is an accomplished
work? And the parents of him that was dead came unto Joseph, and
blamed him, saying: Thou that hast such a child canst not dwell with us in
the village: or do thou teach him to bless and not to curse: for he slayeth
our children.
V. 1 And Joseph called the young child apart and admonished him, saying:
Wherefore doest thou such things, that these suffer and hate us and
persecute us? But Jesus said: I know that these thy words are not thine:
nevertheless for thy sake I will hold my peace: but they shall bear their
punishment. And straightway they that accused him were smitten with
blindness. 2 And they that saw it were sore afraid and perplexed, and said
concerning him that every word which he spake whether it were good or
bad, was a deed, and became a marvel. And when they (he ?) saw that
Jesus had so done, Joseph arose and took hold upon his ear and wrung it
sore. 3 And the young child was wroth and said unto him: It sufficeth thee
(or them) to seek and not to find, and verily thou hast done unwisely:
knowest thou not that I am thine? vex me not.
VI. 1 Now a certain teacher, Zacchaeus by name, stood there and he heard
in part when Jesus said these things to his father and he marvelled greatly
that being a young child he spake such matters. 2 And after a few days he
came near unto Joseph and said unto him: Thou hast a wise child, and he
hath understanding. Come, deliver him to me that he may learn letters. And
I will teach him with the letters all knowledge and that he salute all the
elders and honour them as grandfathers and fathers, and love them of his
own years. 3 And he told him all the letters from Alpha even to Omega
clearly, with much questioning. But Jesus looked upon Zacchaeus the
teacher and saith unto him: Thou that knowest not the Alpha according to
its nature, how canst thou teach others the Beta? thou hypocrite, first, if
thou knowest it, teach the Alpha, and then will we believe thee concerning

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the  Beta.  Then  began  he  to  confound  the  mouth  of  the  teacher
concerning the first letter, and he could not prevail to answer him. 4 And in
the hearing of many the young child saith to Zacchaeus: Hear, O teacher,
the ordinance of the first letter and pay heed to this, how that it hath
[what follows is really unintelligible in this and in all the parallel texts: a
literal version would run something like this: how that it hath lines, and a
middle mark, which thou  seest,  common  to  both,  going apart;  coming
together, raised up on high, dancing (a corrupt word), of three signs, like
in kind (a corrupt word), balanced, equal in measure]: thou hast the rules
of the Alpha.
VII. 1 Now when Zacchaeus the teacher heard such and so many allegories
of the first letter spoken by the young child, he was perplexed at his
answer and his instruction being so great, and said to them that were there:
Woe is me, wretch that I am, I am confounded: I have brought shame to
myself by drawing to me this young child. 2 Take him away, therefore I
beseech thee, my brother Joseph: I cannot endure the severity of his look,
I cannot once make clear my (or his) word. This young child is not earthly
born: this is one that can tame even fire: be like this is one begotten before
the making of the world. What belly bare this, what womb nurtured it? I
know not. Woe is me, O my friend, he putteth me from my sense, I cannot
follow his understanding. I have deceived myself, thrice wretched man that I
am: I strove to get me a disciple and I am found to have a master. 3 I think,
O my friends, upon my shame, for that being old I have been overcome by
a young child;- and I am even ready to faint and to die because of the boy,
for I am not able at this present hour to look him in the face. And when all
men say that I have been overcome by a little child, what have I to say? and
what can I tell concerning the lines of the first letter whereof he spake to
me? I am ignorant, O my friends, for neither beginning nor end of it (or him)
do I know. 4 Wherefore I beseech thee, my brother Joseph, take him away
unto thine house: for he is somewhat great, whether god or angel or what I
should call him, I know not.
VIII.  1  And  as  the  Jews  were  counselling  Zacchaeus,  the  young  child
laughed greatly and said: Now let those bear fruit that were barren (Gr.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
that are thine) and let them see that were blind in heart. I am come from
above that I may curse them, and call them to the things that are above,
even as he commanded which hath sent me for your sakes. 2 And when the
young child ceased speaking, immediately all they were made whole which
had come under his curse. And no man after that durst provoke him, lest
he should curse him, and he should be maimed.
IX. 1 Now after certain days Jesus was playing in the upper story of a
certain house, and one of the young children that played with him fell down
from the house and died. And the other children when they saw it fled, and
Jesus remained alone. 2 And the parents of him that was dead came and
accused him that he had cast him down. (And Jesus said: I did not cast him
down) but they reviled him still. 3 Then Jesus leaped down from the roof
and stood by the body of the child and cried with a loud voice and said:
Zeno (for so was his name called), arise and tell me, did I cast thee down?
And straightway he arose and said: Nay, Lord, thou didst not cast me
down, but didst raise me up. And when they saw it they were amazed: and
the parents of the child glorified God for the sign which had come to pass,
and worshipped Jesus.
X. 1 After a few days, a certain young man was cleaving wood in the
neighbourhood (MSS. corner), and the axe fell and cut in sunder the sole
of his foot, and losing much blood he was at the point to die. 2 And when
there was a tumult and concourse, the young child Jesus also ran thither,
and by force passed through the multitude, and took hold upon the foot
of the young man that was smitten, and straightway it was healed. And he
said unto the young man: Arise now and cleave the wood and remember
me. But when the multitude saw what was done they worshipped the young
child, saying: Verily the spirit of God dwelleth in this young child.
XI. 1 Now when he was six years old, his mother sendeth him to draw water
and bear it into the house, and gave him a pitcher: but in the press he
struck it against another and the pitcher was broken. 2 But Jesus spread
out the garment which was upon him and filled it with water and brought it

JESUS † The Complete Biography
to his mother. And when his mother saw what was done she kissed him; and
she kept within herself the mysteries which she saw him do.
XII. 1 Again, in the time of sowing the young child went forth with his father
to sow wheat in their land: and as his father sowed, the young child Jesus
sowed also one corn of wheat. 2 And he reaped it and threshed it and
made thereof an hundred measures (cors): and he called all the poor of
the village unto the threshing floor and gave them the wheat. And Joseph
took the residue of the wheat. And he was eight years old when he
wrought this sign.
XIII. 1 Now his father was a carpenter and made at that time ploughs and
yokes. And there was required of him a bed by a certain rich man, that he
should make it for him. And whereas one beam, that which is called the
shifting one was too short and Joseph knew not what to do, the young
child Jesus said to his father Joseph: Lay down the two pieces of wood
and make them even at the end next unto thee (MSS. at the middle part).
And Joseph did as the young child said unto him. And Jesus stood at the
other end and took hold upon the shorter beam and stretched it and made
it equal with the other. And his father Joseph saw it and marvelled: and he
embraced the young child and kissed him, saying: Happy am I for that God
hath given me this young child.
XIV. 1 But when Joseph saw the understanding of the child, and his age,
that it was coming to the full, he thought with himself again that he should
not be ignorant of letters; and he took him and delivered him to another
teacher. And the teacher said unto Joseph: First will I teach him the Greek
letters, and after that the Hebrew. For the teacher knew the skill of the
child and was afraid of him: notwithstanding he wrote the alphabet and
Jesus pondered thereon a long time and answered him not. 2 And Jesus
said to him: If thou be indeed a teacher and if thou knowest letters well, tell
me the power of the Alpha and then will I tell thee the power of the Beta.
And the teacher was provoked and smote him on the head. And the young
child was hurt and cursed him, and straightway he fainted and fell to the
ground on his face. 3 And the child returned unto the house of Joseph:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and Joseph was grieved and commanded his mother, saying: Let him not
forth without the door, for all they die that provoke him to wrath.
XV. 1 And after some time yet another teacher which was a faithful friend of
Joseph  said  to  him:  Bring  the  young  child  unto  me  to  the  school,
peradventure I may be able by cockering him to teach him the letters. And
Joseph said: If thou hast no fear, my brother, take him with thee. And he
took him with him, in fear and much trouble of spirit, but the young child
followed him gladly. 2 And going with boldness into the school he found a
book lying upon the pulpit and he took it, and read not the letters that
were therein, but opened his mouth and spake by the Holy Spirit, and
taught the law to them that stood by. And a great multitude came together
and stood there hearkening, and marvelled at the beauty of his teaching
and the readiness of his words, in that being an infant he uttered such
things. 3 But when Joseph heard it, he was afraid, and ran unto the school
thinking  whether  this  teacher  also  were  without  skill  (or  smitten  with
infirmity): but the teacher said unto Joseph: Know, my brother, that I
received this child for a disciple, but he is full of grace and wisdom; and
now I beseech thee, brother, take him unto thine house. 4 And when the
young child heard that, he smiled upon him and said: Forasmuch as thou
hast said well and hast borne right witness, for thy sake shall he also that
was smitten be healed. And forthwith the other teacher was healed. And
Joseph took the young child and departed unto his house.
XVI. 1 And Joseph sent his son James to bind fuel and carry it into his
house. And the young child Jesus also followed him. And as James was
gathering of faggots, a viper bit the hand of James. 2 And as he was sore
afflicted and ready to perish, Jesus came near and breathed upon the bite,
and straightway the pain ceased, and the serpent burst, and forthwith
James continued whole.
XVII. 1 And after these things, in the neighbourhood of Joseph, a little child
fell sick and died, and his mother wept sore. And Jesus heard that there w
as great mourning and trouble and he ran quickly and found the child
dead: and he touched his breast and said: I say unto thee, Child, die not,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
but live and be with thy mother. And straightway it looked up and laughed.
And he said to the woman: Take him up and give him milk, and remember
me. 2 And the multitude that stood by saw it and marvelled, and said: Of a
truth this young child is either a god or an angel of God; for every word of
his is a perfect work. And Jesus departed thence, and was playing with
other children.
XVIII. 1 And after some time there was work of building. And there came a
great tumult, and Jesus arose and went thither: and he saw a man lying
dead, and took hold of his hand and said: Man, I say unto thee, arise and
do thy work. And immediately he arose and worshipped him. 2 And when
the multitude saw it, they were astonished, and said: This young child is
from heaven: for he hath saved many souls from death, and hath power to
save them all his life long.
In chapter II of the foregoing gospel account, Jesus asa child fashioned
birds out of clay and then gave them life.  The same story is found in
Suratu’l-‘Imran and Suratu’l-Ma’idah of the Qur’an:
3:49 And [make him] a messenger to the Children of Israel, [who will say],
'Indeed I have come to you with a sign from your Lord in that I design for
you from clay [that which is] like the form of a bird, then I breathe into it
and it becomes a bird by permission of Allah .  And I cure the blind and the
leper, and I give life to the dead - by permission of Allah . And I inform you
of what you eat and what you store in your houses. Indeed in that is a sign
for you, if you are believers…”
5:110 [The Day] when Allah will say, "O Jesus, Son of Mary, remember My
favor upon you and upon your mother when I supported you with the Pure
Spirit and you spoke to the people in the cradle and in maturity; and
[remember] when I taught you writing and wisdom and the Torah and the
Gospel; and when you designed from clay [what was] like the form of a
bird with My permission, then you breathed into it, and it became a bird
with My permission; and you healed the blind and the leper with My
permission; and when you brought forth the dead with My permission; and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
when I restrained the Children of Israel from [killing] you when you came to
them with clear proofs and those who disbelieved among them said, "This is
not but obvious magic."
The Infancy Gospel of Thomas (Greek text B)79 contains nothing
apart from stories about his childhood in the Galilee:
The Writing of the holy Apostle Thomas concerning the conversation of
the Lord in his childhood.
I. I, Thomas the Israelite, have thought it needful to make known unto all
the brethren that are of the Gentiles the mighty works of childhood which
our Lord Jesus Christ wrought when he was conversant in the body, and
came unto the city of Nazareth in the fifth year of his age.
II. 1 On a certain day when there had fallen a shower of rain he went forth
of the house where his mother was and played upon the ground where the
waters were running: and he made pools, and the waters flowed down, and
the pools were filled with water. Then saith he: I will that ye become clean
and wholesome waters. And straightway they did so. 2 But a certain son of
Annas the scribe passed by bearing a branch of willow, and he overthrew
the pools with the branch, and the waters were poured out. And Jesus
turned about and said unto him: O ungodly and disobedient one, what
hurt have the pools done thee that thou hast emptied them? Thou shalt
not finish thy course, and thou shalt be withered up even as the branch
which thou hast in hand. 3 And he went on, and after a little he fell and
gave up the ghost. And when the young children that played with him saw
it, they marvelled and departed and told the father of him that was dead.
And he ran and found the child dead, and went and accused Joseph.
III. 1 Now Jesus made of that clay twelve sparrows: and it was the Sabbath
day. And a child ran and told Joseph, saying: Behold, thy child playeth
about the brook, and hath made sparrows of the clay, which is not lawful. 2
And he when he heard it went and said to the child: Wherefore doest thou
so and profaneth the Sabbath? But Jesus answered him not, but looked

JESUS † The Complete Biography
upon the sparrows and said: Go ye, take your flight, and remember me in
your life. And at the word they took flight and went up into the air. And
when Joseph saw it he was astonished.
IV. 1 And after certain days, as Jesus passed through the midst of the city,
a certain child cast a stone at him and smote his shoulder. And Jesus said
unto him: Thou shalt not finish thy course. And straightway he also fell
down and died. And they that were there were amazed, saying: From
whence  is  this  child,  that  every  word  which  he  speaketh  becometh  a
perfect work? 2 But they also departed and accused Joseph, saying:
Thou wilt not be able to dwell with us in this city: but if thou wilt, teach thy
child to bless and not to curse: for verily he slayeth our children: and every
thing that he saith becometh a perfect work.
V. And as Joseph sat upon his seat, the child stood before him; and he
took hold upon his ear and pinched it sore. But Jesus looked upon him
earnestly and said: It sufficeth thee.
VI. 1 And on the morrow he took him by the hand and led him to a certain
teacher, Zacchaeus by name, and said unto him: Take this child, O master,
and teach him letters. And the other said: Deliver him unto me, my brother,
and I will teach him the scripture, and I will persuade him to bless all men
and not to curse them. 2 And when Jesus heard that he laughed and said
unto them: Ye speak that ye know, but I have knowledge more than you,
for I am before the worlds. And I know when the fathers of your fathers
were begotten, and I know how many are the years of your life. And every
one that heard it was amazed. 3 And again saith Jesus unto them: Marvel
ye because I said unto you that I know how many are the years of your life?
Of a truth I know when the world was created. Behold, now ye believe me
not: when ye shall see my cross then will ye believe that I speak truth. And
they were astonished when they heard all these things.
VII. 1 Now Zacchaeus wrote the alphabet in Hebrew, and saith unto him:
Alpha. And the young child said: Alpha. And again the master said: Alpha,
and the young child likewise. Then again the third time the master said:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Alpha. Then Jesus looked upon the teacher and said: Thou that knowest
not the Alpha, how canst thou teach another the Beta? And the child
beginning at the Alpha said of his own accord the two and twenty letters. 2
And thereafter saith he: Hear, O master the ordinance of the first letter,
and know how many incomings and lines it hath, and marks, common, going
apart, and coming together. And when Zacchaeus heard such designations
of the one letter he was amazed and had nothing to answer; and turning
about he said unto Joseph: My brother, this child is of a truth not earthly
born: take him away therefore from me.
VIII. 1 And after these things one day Jesus was playing with other boys
upon the top of an house of two stories. And one child was pushed down
by another and thrown down to the ground and died. And the boys which
were playing with him, when they saw it, fled, and Jesus was left alone
standing upon the roof whence the boy was thrown down. 2 And when the
parents of the boy that was dead heard of it they ran weeping, and when
they found the boy lying dead upon the earth and Jesus standing alone,
they supposed that the boy had been thrown down by him, and they
looked upon him and reviled him. 3 But Jesus, seeing that, leaped down
straightway from the upper story and stood at the head of him that was
dead and saith to him: Zeno, did I cast thee down? Arise and tell. For so
was the boy called. And with the word the boy rose up and worshipped
Jesus and said: Lord, thou didst not cast me down, but when I was dead
thou didst make me alive.
IX. 1 And a few days after one of the neighbours was cleaving wood and did
cut off the sole of his foot with the axe, and by loss of blood was at the
point to die. 2 And much people ran together and Jesus came thither with
them. 3 And he took hold on the foot of the young man that was smitten,
and healed him forthwith, and saith unto him: Arise, cleave thy wood. And
he arose and worshipped him, giving thanks, and cleft the wood. Likewise
also all they that were there marvelled and gave thanks unto him.
X. Now when he was six years old, Mary his mother sent him to fetch water
from the spring: and as he went his pitcher was broken. And he went to the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
spring and spread out his upper garment and drew water out of the spring
and filled it and took it and brought back the water to his mother. And
when she saw it, was amazed and embraced him and kissed him.
XI. 1 And when he came to the eighth year of his age Joseph was required
by a certain rich man to build him a bed, for he was a carpenter. And he
went forth into the field to gather wood, and Jesus also went with him. And
he cut two beams of wood and wrought them with the axe, and set one
beside the other and measured and found it too short; and when he saw
that he was vexed and sought to find another. 2 But Jesus seeing it saith
unto him: Set these two together so that the ends of both be even. And
Joseph, though he was perplexed concerning this, what the child should
mean, did that which was commanded. And he saith again unto him: Take
firm hold of the short beam. And Joseph took hold on it, marvelling. Then
Jesus also took hold of the other end and pulled the [other] end thereof
and made it also equal to the other beam, and saith unto Joseph: Be no
more vexed, but do thy work without hindrance. And he when he saw it was
exceedingly amazed and said within himself: Blessed am I for that God hath
given me such a son. 3 And when they departed into the city Joseph told it
to Mary, and she when she heard and saw the wonderful mighty works of
her son rejoiced, glorifying him with the Father and the Holy Spirit now and
for ever and world without end. Amen.
The Infancy Gospel of Thomas (Latin text)80 contains mostly stories
about his childhood in the Galilee81:
III. How Jesus came out of Egypt.
1 And behold, an angel of the Lord met with Mary and said unto her: Take
the child and return into the land of the Jews: for they are dead which
sought his life. So Mary arose with Jesus, and they went into the city
Nazareth, which is in the inheritance of his (her?) father. 2 But when
Joseph departed out of Egypt after the death of Herod, he took Jesus
into the wilderness until there was quiet in Jerusalem from them that sought

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the life of the child. And he gave thanks to God for that he had given him
understanding, and because he had found grace before the Lord God.
Amen.
or, And Mary arose with Jesus, and they went unto the city of Capernaum
which is of Tiberias, unto the inheritance of her father. 2 But when Joseph
heard that Jesus was come out of Egypt after the death of Herod, he took
him, &c.
or, After these things an angel of the Lord came unto Joseph and unto
Mary the mother of Jesus and said unto them: Taketh he child, return into
the land of Israel, for they are dead that sought the life of the child. And
they arose and went to Nazareth where Joseph possessed the goods of
his father. 2 And when Jesus was seven years old, there was quiet in the
realm of Herod from all them that sought the life of the child. And they
returned unto Bethlehem and abode there.
IV. What Jesus did in the city of Nazareth.
It is a glorious work for Thomas the Israelite (Ismaelite) the apostle of the
Lord to tell of the works of Jesus after he came out of Egypt unto
Nazareth. Hear (understand) therefore all of you beloved brethren, the
signs which the Lord Jesus did when he was in the city of Nazareth: as it is
said in the first chapter.
1 Now when Jesus was five years old there was a great rain upon the earth,
and the child Jesus walked about therein. And the rain was very terrible:
and he gathered the water together into a pool and commanded with a
word that it should become clear: and forthwith it did so.
2 Again, he took of the clay which came of that pool and made thereof to
the number of twelve sparrows. Now it was the Sabbath day when Jesus
did this among the children  of the Hebrews: and the children  of the
Hebrews went and said unto Joseph his father: Lo, thy son was playing
with us and he took clay and made sparrows which it was not right to do
upon the Sabbath, and he hath broken it. And Joseph went to the child

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Jesus, and said unto him: Wherefore hast thou done this which it was not
right to do on the Sabbath? But Jesus spread forth (opened) his hands
and commanded the sparrows, saying: Go forth into the height and fly: ye
shall not meet death at any man's hands. And they flew and began to cry
out and praise almighty God. But when the Jews saw what was done they
marvelled and departed, proclaiming the signs which Jesus did.
3 But a Pharisee which was with Jesus took a branch of an olive tree and
began to empty the pool which Jesus had made. And when Jesus saw it he
was vexed and said to him: O thou of Sodom, ungodly and ignorant, what
hurt did the fountain of water do thee, which I made? Lo, thou shalt
become like a dry tree which hath neither roots nor leaf nor fruit. And
straightway he was dried up and fell to the earth and died: but his parents
carried him away dead and reviled Joseph, saying: Behold what thy son
hath done: teach thou him to pray and not to blaspheme.
V. How the people of the city were grieved against Joseph because of that
which Jesus did.
1 And after some days as Jesus walked with Joseph through the city, there
ran one of the children and smote Jesus on the arms: but Jesus said unto
him: So finish thou thy course. And immediately he fell to the earth and
died. But they when they saw this wonder, cried out saying: From whence
cometh this child? And they said unto Joseph: It is not right that such a
child should be among us. And he departed and took him with him. And
they said to him: Depart out of this place; and if thou must be with us,
teach him to pray and not to blaspheme: for our sons are put to death by
him (lit. lose their senses). 2 And Joseph called Jesus and began to
admonish him, saying: Wherefore blasphemest thou? They that dwell in this
place conceive hatred against us. But Jesus said: I know that these words
are not mine but thine: yet for thy sake I will hold my peace: But let them
see  (?  bear)  their  own  foolishness.  And  straightway  they  that  spake
against Jesus were made blind, and as they walked to and fro they said:
Every word that cometh out of his mouth hath fulfillment. 3 And when
Joseph saw what Jesus had done he took hold on him by his ear in anger:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
but Jesus was vexed and said unto Joseph: It sufficeth thee to see me and
not to touch me. For thou knowest not who I am, which if thou knewest,
thou wouldest not grieve me. And albeit I am with thee now, yet was I made
before thee.
VI. How Jesus was treated by the Master.
1 There was therefore a man named Zacheus who heard all that Jesus said
unto Joseph, and he marvelled in himself and said: I have never beheld
such a child that spake so. And he came near unto Joseph and said to him:
Thou hast a wise child: deliver him to me to learn letters, and when he is
learned in the study of the letters, I will teach him reverently that he
become not foolish. Joseph answered and said unto him: No man is able to
teach  him  but  God  only.  Think  you  that  this  young  child  will  be  the
occasion unto us of little torment, my brother? [There should be mention
of a cross in this sentence. Syriac has, Thinkest thou that he is worthy to
receive a little cross? See below.]
2 But when Jesus heard Joseph saying these things, he said unto Zacheus:
Verily, O master, all things that proceed out of my mouth are true. And I am
before all men, and I am Lord, but ye are the children of strangers: for
unto me is given the glory of them (or of the worlds) but unto you nothing
is given: for I am before all worlds. And I know how many are the years of
thy life, and when thou shalt raise that standard (i. e. the cross) whereof
my father spake, then shalt thou understand that all things that proceed
out of my mouth are true.
3 But the Jews which stood by and heard the words which Jesus spake,
marvelled and said: Now have we seen such wonders and heard such words
from this child, as we have never heard neither shall hear from any other
man, neither from the chief priests nor the doctors nor the Pharisees. 4
Jesus answered and said unto them: Wherefore marvel ye? Do ye think it a
thing incredible that I have told you the truth? I know when ye were born,
and your fathers: and if I should say more unto you, I know when the world
was created, and who sent me unto you.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
When the Jews heard the word which the child spake, they were wroth
because they were not able to answer him. And the child turned himself
about and rejoiced and said: I spake unto you a proverb; but I know that
ye are weak and know not anything.
5 Now that master said unto Joseph: Bring him unto me and I will teach him
letters. And Joseph took the child Jesus and brought him to the house [of
a certain master] where other children also were taught. But the master
began to teach him the letters with sweet speech, and wrote for him the
first line which goeth from A unto T, and began to flatter him and to teach
him (and commanded him to say the letters:) but the child held his peace. 6
Then that teacher smote the child on the head and when the child received
the blow, he said unto him: I ought to teach thee and not thou to teach me.
I know the letters which thou wouldest teach me, and I know that ye are
unto me as vessels out of which cometh nought but sound, and neither
wisdom nor salvation of the soul. And beginning the line he spake all the
letters from A even unto T fully with much quickness: and he looked upon
the master and said: But thou knowest not how to interpret A and B: how
wouldest thou teach others? Thou hypocrite, if thou knowest and canst
tell me concerning A, then will I tell thee concerning B. But when the
teacher began to expound concerning the first letter, he was not able to
give any answer.
7  Then  said  Jesus  unto  Zacheus:  Hearken  unto  me,  O  master  and
understand the first letter. Give ear unto me, how that it hath two lines
(eight quite unintelligible descriptive phrases follow).
8  Now  when  Zacheus  saw  that  he  so  divided  the  first  letter  he  was
confounded at such names, and at his teaching, and cried out and said:
Woe is me, for I am confounded: I have hired shame unto myself by means
of this child. And he said unto Joseph: I beseech thee earnestly, my
brother, take him away from me: for I cannot look upon his face nor hear
his mighty words. For this child is able to subdue the fire and to restrain
the sea, for he was born before the worlds. What womb bare him or what
manner of mother brought him up I know not. 10 O my friends, I am astray

JESUS † The Complete Biography
in my wits, I am mocked, wretched man that I am. I said that I had a disciple,
but he is found to be my master. I cannot overcome my shame, for I am old,
and I cannot find wherewithal to answer him, so that I am like to fall into
heavy sickness and depart out of the world or go away from this city, for
all men have seen my shame, that a child hath ensnared me. What can I
answer any man, or what words can I speak, for he hath overcome me at
the first letter! I am confounded, O ye my friends and acquaintances, and I
can find neither first nor last to answer him. 11 And now I beseech thee
brother Joseph, remove him from me and take him unto thine house, for
either he is a sorcerer or a god (Lord) or an angel, and what to say I know
not.
12 And Jesus turned himself unto the Jews that were with Zacheus and said
unto them: Now let all them that see not see and let them understand which
understand not, and let the deaf hear, and let them arise which have died
by my means, and let me call them that are high unto that which is higher,
even as he that sent me unto you hath commanded me. And when the child
Jesus ceased speaking, all the afflicted were made whole, as many as had
been afflicted at his word. And they durst not speak unto him.
VII. How Jesus raised up a boy.
1 Now on a day, when Jesus climbed up upon an house with the children, he
began to play with them: but one of the boys fell down through the door
out of the upper chamber and died straightway. And when the children
saw it they fled all of them, but Jesus remained alone in the house. 2 And
when the parents of the child which had died came they spake against
Jesus saying: Of a truth thou madest him fall. But Jesus said: I never made
him fall: nevertheless they accused him still. Jesus therefore came down
from the house and stood over the dead child and cried with a loud voice,
calling him by his name: Zeno, Zeno, arise and say if I made thee fall. And
on a sudden he arose and said: Nay, Lord. And when his parents saw this
great miracle which Jesus did, they glorified God, and worshipped Jesus.
VIII. How Jesus healed the foot of a boy.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
1 And after a few days a certain boy of that village was cleaving wood, and
smote his foot. 2 And when much people came unto him, Jesus also came
with them. And he touched the foot which was hurt, and forthwith it was
made whole. And Jesus said unto him: Arise and cleave the wood and
remember me. But when the multitude that were with him saw the signs
which were done they worshipped Jesus and said: of a truth we believe
surely that thou art God.
IX. How Jesus bare water in his cloak.
1 And when Jesus was six years old, his mother sent him to draw water. And
when Jesus was come unto the well there was much people there and they
brake his pitcher. 2 But he took the cloak which he had upon him and filled
it with water and brought it to Mary his mother. And when his mother saw
the miracle that Jesus did she kissed him and said: Lord, hearken unto me
and save my son.
X. How Jesus sowed wheat.
1 Now when it was seed time, Joseph went forth to sow corn, and Jesus
followed after him. And when Joseph began to sow, Jesus put forth his
hand and took of the corn so much as he could hold in his hand, and
scattered it. 2 Joseph therefore came at the time of harvest to reap his
harvest. And Jesus also came and gathered the ears which he had sown,
and they made an hundred measures of good corn: and he called the poor
and the widows and fatherless and gave them the corn which he had
gained, save that Joseph took a little thereof unto his house for a blessing
[of Jesus].
XI. How Jesus made a short beam even with a long one.
1 And Jesus came to be eight years old. Now Joseph was a builder and
wrought ploughs and yokes for oxen. And on a day a certain rich man said
unto Joseph: Sir, make me a bed serviceable and comely. But Joseph was
troubled because the beam which he had made ready for the work was
short. 2 Jesus said unto him: Be not troubled, but take thou hold of this

JESUS † The Complete Biography
beam by the one end and I by the other, and let us draw it out. And so it
came to pass, and forthwith Joseph found it serviceable for that which he
desired. And he said unto Joseph: Behold, fashion that thou wilt. But
Joseph when he saw what was done embraced him and said: Blessed am I
for that God hath given me such a son.
XII. How Jesus was delivered over to learn letters.
1 And when Joseph saw that he had so great grace and that he increased in
stature, he thought to deliver him over to learn letters. And he delivered
him to another doctor that he should teach him. Then said that doctor
unto  Joseph:  What manner  of  letters wouldest  thou  teach  this child?
Joseph answered and said: Teach him first the letters of the Gentiles and
after that the Hebrew. Now the doctor knew that he was of an excellent
understanding, and received him gladly. And when he had written for him
the first line, that is to say A and B, he taught him for the space of some
hours: but Jesus held his peace and answered nothing. 2 At the last Jesus
said unto the master: If thou be verily a master and indeed knowest the
letters, tell me the power of A and I will tell thee the power of B. Then was
the master filled with indignation and smote him on the head. But Jesus was
wroth and cursed him, and on a sudden he fell down and died. 3 But Jesus
returned unto his own home. And Joseph enjoined Mary his mother that
she should not let him go out of the court of the house.
XIII. How he was delivered unto another master.
1 After many days there came another doctor which was a friend of Joseph
and said unto him: Deliver him to me and I will teach him letters with much
gentleness. And Joseph said unto him: If thou art able, take him and teach
him, and it shall be done gladly. And when the doctor received Jesus, he
went with fear and great boldness and took him rejoicing. 2 And when he
was come unto the house of the doctor, he found a book lying in that
place and took it and opened it, and read not those things which were
written therein, but opened his mouth and spake by the Holy Ghost and
taught  the  law:  and  all  that  stood  by  hearkened  attentively,  and  the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
teacher sat by him and heard him gladly and entreated him to continue
teaching. And much people gathered together and heard all the holy
doctrine which he taught and the beloved words which proceeded out of
his mouth marvelling that he being a little child spake such things.
3 But when Joseph heard, he was afraid and ran unto the place where
Jesus was; and the master said unto Joseph: Know my brother, that I
received thy child to teach him and instruct him, but he is filled with great
grace and wisdom. Therefore behold now, take him unto thy house with
joy, because the grace which he hath is given him of the Lord. 4 And when
Jesus heard the master speak thus he was joyful and said: Lo, now thou
hast well said, O master: for thy sake shall he rise again who was dead.
And Joseph took him unto his own home.
XIV. How Jesus made James whole of the bite of a serpent.
Now Joseph sent James to gather straw, and Jesus followed after him.
And as James gathered straw, a viper bit him and he fell to the earth as
dead by means of the venom. But when Jesus saw that, he breathed upon
his wound and forthwith James was made whole, and the viper died.
XV. How Jesus raised up a boy.
After a few days a child that was his neighbour died, and his mother
mourned for him sore; and when Jesus heard, he went and stood over the
child, and smote him on the breast and said: Child, I say unto thee, die not,
but live. And immediately the child arose: and Jesus said unto the mother
of the child: Take up thy son and give him suck, and remember me. 2 But
the multitudes when they saw that miracle said: Of a truth this child is from
heaven, for now hath he set free many souls from death and hath saved all
them that hoped in him.
[A gap in all the Latin MSS. filled by the Greek text A, cap. 19,1-3 Jesus and
the doctors in the Temple.]
3 The Scribes and Pharisees said unto Mary: Art thou the mother of this
child? and Mary said: Of a truth I am. And they said unto her: Blessed art

JESUS † The Complete Biography
thou among women, because God hath blessed the fruit of thy womb in
that he hath given thee a child so glorious: for so great gifts of wisdom we
have never seen nor heard in any.
4 And Jesus arose and followed his mother. But Mary kept in her heart all
the great signs which Jesus wrought among the people, in healing many
that were sick. And Jesus increased in stature and wisdom, and all that saw
him glorified God the Father Almighty: Who is blessed for ever and ever.
Amen.
All  these  things  have  I,  Thomas  the  Israelite  (Ismaelite),  written  and
recorded for the Gentiles and for our brethren, and likewise many other
things which Jesus did, which was born in the land of Juda. Behold, the
house of Israel hath seen all these from the first even unto the last, even
how great signs and wonders Jesus did among them, which were good
exceedingly. And this is he which shall judge the world according to the will
of his Father, immortal and invisible, as the holy Scripture declareth and as
the prophets have testified of his works among all the peoples of Israel: for
he is the Son of God throughout all the World. And unto him belongeth all
glory and honour everlastingly, who liveth and reigneth God, world without
end. Amen.
The  Gospel  of  Pseudo-Matthew (Chapters  26-31)  82 also  contains
many details about this period:
CHAP. 26.--And it came to pass, after Jesus had returned out of Egypt,
when He was in Galilee, and entering on the fourth year of His age, that on
a Sabbath-day He was playing with some children at the bed of the
Jordan. And as He sat there, Jesus made to Himself seven pools of clay,
and to each of them He made passages, through which at His command He
brought water from the torrent into the pool, and took it back again. Then
one of those children, a son of the devil, moved with envy, shut the
passages which supplied the pools with water, and overthrew what Jesus
had built up. Then said Jesus to him: Woe unto thee, thou son of death,
thou son of Satan! Dost thou destroy the works which I have wrought?
And immediately he who had done this died. Then with great uproar the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
parents of the dead boy cried out against Mary and Joseph, saying to
them: Your son has cursed our son, and he is dead. And when Joseph and
Mary heard this, they came forthwith to Jesus, on account of the outcry of
the parents of the boy, and the gathering together of the Jews. But
Joseph said privately to Mary: I dare not speak to Him; but do thou
admonish Him, and say: Why hast Thou raised against us the hatred of the
people; and why must the troublesome hatred of men be borne by us? And
His mother having come to Him, asked Him, saying: My Lord, what was it
that he did to bring about his death? And He said: He deserved death,
because he scattered the works that I had made. Then His mother asked
Him, saying: Do not so, my Lord, because all men rise up against us. But
He, not wishing to grieve His mother, with His right foot kicked the hinder
parts of the dead boy, and said to him: Rise, thou son of iniquity for thou
art not worthy to enter into the rest of my Father, because thou didst
destroy the works which I had made. Then he who had been dead rose up,
and went away. And Jesus, by the word of His power, brought water into
the pools by the aqueduct.
CHAP. 27.--And it came to pass, after these things, that in the sight of all
Jesus took clay froth the pools which He had made, and of it made twelve
sparrows. And it was the Sabbath when Jesus did this, and there were very
many children with Him. When, therefore, one of the Jews had seen Him
doing this, he said to Joseph: Joseph, dost thou not see the child
Jesus working on the Sabbath at what it is not lawful for him to do? for he
has  made  twelve  sparrows  of  clay.  And  when  Joseph  heard  this,  he
reproved him, saying: Wherefore doest thou on the Sabbath such things as
are not lawful for us to do? And when Jesus heard Joseph, He struck His
hands together, and said to His sparrows: Fly! And at the voice of His
command they began to fly. And in the sight and hearing of all that stood
by, He said to the birds: Go and fly through the earth, and through all the
world, and live. And when those that were there saw such miracles, they
were filled with great astonishment. And some praised and admired Him,
but others reviled Him. And certain of them went away to the chief priests
and the heads of the Pharisees, and reported to them that Jesus the son

JESUS † The Complete Biography
of Joseph had done great signs and miracles in the sight of all the people
of Israel. And this was reported in the twelve tribes of Israel.
CHAP. 28.--And again the son of Annas, a priest of the temple, who had
come with Joseph, holding his rod in his hand in the sight of all, with great
fury broke down the dams which Jesus had made with His own hands, and
let  out  the  water  which  He  had  collected  in  them  from  the  torrent.
Moreover, he shut the aqueduct by which the water came in, and then
broke it down. And when Jesus saw this, He said to that boy who had
destroyed His dams: O most wicked seed of iniquity! O son of death! O
workshop of Satan! verily the fruit of thy seed shall be without strength,
and thy roots without moisture, and thy branches withered, bearing no
fruit. And immediately, in the sight of all, the boy withered away, and died.
CHAP. 29.--Then Joseph trembled, and took hold of Jesus, and went with
Him to his own house, and His mother with Him. And, behold, suddenly
from the opposite direction a boy, also a worker of iniquity, ran up and
came against the shoulder of Jesus, wishing to make sport of Him, or to
hurt Him, if he could. And Jesus said to him: Thou shall not go back safe
and sound from the way that thou goest. And immediately he fell down,
and died. And the parents of the dead boy, who had seen what happened,
cried out, saying: Where does this child come from? It is manifest that every
word that he says is true; and it is often accomplished before he speaks.
And the parents of the dead boy came to Joseph, and said to him: Take
away that Jesus from this place, for he cannot live with us in this town; or
at least teach him to bless, and not to curse. And Joseph came up to
Jesus, and admonished Him, saying: Why doest thou such things? For
already many are in grief and against thee, and hate us on thy account,
and  we  endure  the  reproaches  of  men  because  of  thee.  And  Jesus
answered and said unto Joseph: No one is a wise son but he whom his
father hath taught, according to the knowledge of this time; and a father's
curse can hurt none but evil-doers. Then they came together against
Jesus, and accused him to Joseph. When Joseph saw this, he was in great
terror, fearing the violence and uproar of the people of Israel. And the
same hour Jesus seized the dead boy by the ear, and lifted him up from

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the earth in the sight of all: and they saw Jesus speaking to him like a
father to his son. And his spirit came back to him, and he revived. And all
of them wondered.
CHAP. 30.--Now a certain Jewish schoolmaster named Zachyas heard
Jesus thus speaking; and seeing that He could not be overcome, from
knowing the power that was in Him,[2] he became angry, and began rudely
and foolishly, and without fear, to speak against Joseph. And he said:
Dost thou not wish to entrust me with thy son, that he may be instructed in
human learning and in reverence? But I see that Mary and thyself have
more regard for your son than for what the elders of the people of Israel
say against him. You should have given more honour to us, the elders of
the whole church of Israel, both that he might be on terms of mutual
affection with the children, and that among us he might be instructed in
Jewish learning. Joseph, on the other hand, said to him: And is there any
one who can keep this child, and teach him? But if thou canst keep him and
teach him, we by no means hinder him from being taught by thee those
things which are learned by all. And Jesus, having heard what Zachyas had
said, answered and said unto him: The precepts of the law which thou hast
just spoken of, and all the things that thou hast named, must be kept by
those who are instructed in human learning; but I am a stranger to your
law-courts, because I have no father after the flesh. Thou who readest the
law, and art learned in it, abidest in the law; but I was before the law, But
since thou thinkest that no one is equal to thee in learning, thou shalt be
taught by me, that no other can teach anything but those things which
thou hast named. But he alone can who is worthy. For when I shall be
exalted on earth, I will cause to cease all mention of your genealogy. For
thou knowest not when thou wast born: I alone know when you were born,
and how long your life on earth will be. Then all who heard these words
were struck with astonishment, and cried out: Oh! oh! oh! this marvellously
great and wonderful mystery. Never have we heard the like! Never has it
been heard from any one else, nor has it been said or at any time heard by
the prophets, or the Pharisees, or the scribes. We know whence he is
sprung, and he is scarcely five years old; and whence does he speak these

JESUS † The Complete Biography
words? The Pharisees answered: We have never heard such words spoken
by any other child so young. And Jesus answered and said unto them: At
this do ye wonder, that such things are said by a child? Why, then, do ye
not believe me in those things which I have said to you? And you all wonder
because I said to you that I know when you were born. I will tell you greater
things, that you may wonder more. I have seen Abraham, whom you call
your father, and have spoken with him; and he has seen me.[4] And when
they heard this they held their tongues, nor did any of them dare to speak.
And Jesus said to them: I have been among you with children, and you
have not known me; I have spoken to you as to wise men, and you have not
understood my words; because you are younger than I am,[5] and of little
faith.
CHAP. 31--A second time the master Zachyas, doctor of the law, said to
Joseph and Mary: Give me the boy, and I shall hand him over to master
Levi, who shall teach him his letters and instruct him. Then Joseph and
Mary, soothing Jesus, took Him to the schools, that He might be taught
His letters by old Levi. And as soon as He went in He held His tongue. And
the master Levi said one letter to Jesus, and, beginning from the first letter
Aleph, said to Him: Answer. But Jesus was silent, and answered nothing.
Wherefore the preceptor Levi was angry, and seized his storax-tree rod,
and struck Him on the head. And Jesus said to the teacher Levi: Why dost
thou strike me? Thou shall know in truth, that He who is struck can teach
him who strikes Him more than He can be taught by him. For I can teach
you those very things that yon are saying. But all these are blind who
speak and hear, like sounding brass or tinkling cymbal, in which there is no
perception of those things which are meant by their sound. And Jesus in
addition said to Zachyas: Every letter from Aleph even to Thet is known
by its arrangement. Say thou first, therefore, what Thet is, and I will tell
thee what Aleph is. And again Jesus said to them: Those who do not know
Aleph, how can they say Thet, the hypocrites? Tell me what the first one,
Aleph, is; and I shall then believe you when you have said Beth. And Jesus
began to ask the names of the letters one by one, and said: Let the master
of the law tell us what the first letter is, or why it has many triangles,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
gradate,  subacute,  mediate,  obduced,  produced,  erect,  prostrate,
curvistrate. And when Levi heard this, he was thunderstruck at such an
arrangement of the names of the letters. Then he began in the heating of
all to cry out, and say: Ought such a one to live on the earth? Yea, he
ought to be hung on the great cross. For he can put out fire, and make
sport of other modes of punishment. I think that he lived before the flood,
and was born before the deluge. For what womb bore him? or what mother
brought him forth? or what breasts gave him suck? I flee before him; I am
not able to withstand the words from his mouth, but my heart is astounded
to hear such words. I do not think that any man can understand what he
says, except God were with him. Now I, unfortunate wretch, have given
myself up to be a laughing- stock to him. For when I thought I had a
scholar, I, not knowing him, have found my master. What shall I say? I
cannot withstand the words of this child: I shall now flee from this town,
because I cannot understand them. An old man like me has been beaten by
a boy, because I can find neither beginning nor end of what he says. For it
is no easy matter to find a beginning of himself. I tell you of a certainty, I am
not lying, that to my eyes the proceedings of this boy, the commencement
of his conversation, and the upshot of his intention, seem to have nothing
in common with mortal man. Here then I do not know whether he be a
wizard or a god; or at least an angel of God speaks in him. Whence he is, or
where he comes from, or who he will turn out to be, I know not. Then Jesus,
smiling at him with a joyful countenance, said in a commanding voice to all
the sons of Israel standing by and hearing: Let the unfruitful bring forth
fruit, and the blind see, and the lame walk right, and the poor enjoy the
good things of this life, and the dead live, that each may return to his
original state, and abide in Him who is the root of life and of perpetual
sweetness. And when the child Jesus had said this, forthwith all who had
fallen under malignant diseases were restored. And they did not dare to
say anything more to Him, or to hear anything from Him.
The last and longest of those to be cited is the The Arabic Gospel of The
Infancy of The Saviour,  in a translation by Alexander Roberts and
James  Donaldson,  vol.  VIII,  pp.  404-415,  The  Ante-Nicene  Fathers,
chapters 26-55:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
26. And at the end of the three years He came back out of Egypt, and
returned. And when they had arrived at Judaea, Joseph was afraid to
enter it; but hearing that Herod was dead, and that Archelaus his son had
succeeded him, he was afraid indeed, but he went into Judaea. And an
angel of the Lord appeared to him, and said: O Joseph, go into the city of
Nazareth, and there abide. Wonderful indeed, that the Lord of the world
should be thus borne and carried about through the world!
27. Thereafter, going into the city of Bethlehem, they saw there many and
grievous diseases infesting the eyes of the children, who were dying in
consequence. And a woman was there with a sick son, whom, now very near
death, she brought to the Lady Mary, who saw him as she was washing
Jesus Christ. Then said the woman to her: O my Lady Mary, look upon this
son of mine, who is labouring under a grievous disease. And the Lady Mary
listened to her, and said: Take a little of that water in which I have washed
my son, and sprinkle him with it. She therefore took a little of the water, as
the Lady Mary had told her, and sprinkled it over her son. And when this
was done his illness abated; and after sleeping a little, he rose up from
sleep safe and sound. His mother rejoicing at this, again took him to the
Lady Mary. And she said to her: Give thanks to God, because He hath
healed this thy son.
28. There was in the same place another woman, a neighbour of her whose
son had lately been restored to health. And as her son was labouring
under the same disease, and his eyes were now almost blinded, she wept
night and day. And the mother of the child that had been cured said to
her: Why dost thou not take thy son to the Lady Mary, as I did with mine
when he was nearly dead? And he got well with that water with which the
body of her son Jesus had been washed. And when the woman heard this
from her, she too went and got some of the same water, and washed her
son with it, and his body and his eyes were instantly made well. Her also,
when she had brought her son to her, and disclosed to her all that had
happened, the Lady Mary ordered to give thanks to God for her son's
restoration to health, and to tell nobody of this matter.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
29. There were in the same city two women, wives of one man, each having a
son ill with fever. The one was called Mary, and her son's name was
Cleopas. She rose and took up her son, and went to the Lady Mary, the
mother of Jesus, and offering her a beautiful mantle, said: O my Lady
Mary, accept this mantle, and for it give me one small bandage. Mary did
so, and the mother of Cleopas went away, and made a shirt of it, and put it
on her son. So he was cured of his disease; but the son of her rival died.
Hence there sprung up hatred between them; and as they did the house-
work week about, and as it was the turn of Mary the mother of Cleopas,
she heated the oven to bake bread; and going away to bring the lump that
she had kneaded, she left her son Cleopas beside the oven. Her rival
seeing him alone--and the oven was very hot with the fire blazing under it--
seized him and threw him into the oven, and took herself off. Mary coming
back, and seeing her son Cleopas lying in the oven laughing, and the oven
quite cold, as if no fire had ever come near it, knew that her rival had
thrown him into the fire. She drew him out, therefore, and took him to the
Lady Mary, and told her of what had happened to him. And she said: Keep
silence, and tell nobody of the affair; for I am afraid for you if you divulge
it. After this her rival went to the well to draw water; and seeing Cleopas
playing beside the well, and nobody near, she seized him and threw him
into the well, and went home herself. And some men who had gone to the
well for water saw the boy sitting on the surface of the water; and so they
went down and drew him out. And they were seized with a great admiration
of that boy, and praised God. Then came his mother, and took him up, and
went weeping to the Lady Mary, and said: O my lady, see what my rival has
done to my son, and how she has thrown him into the well; she will be sure
to destroy him some day or other. The Lady Mary said to her: God will
avenge thee upon her. Thereafter, when her rival went to the well to draw
water, her feet got entangled in the rope, and she fell into the well. Some
men came to draw her out, but they found her skull fractured and her
bones broken. Thus she died a miserable death, and in her came to pass
that saying: They have digged a well deep, but have fallen into the pit
which they had prepared.[1]

JESUS † The Complete Biography
30. Another woman there had twin sons who had fallen into disease, and
one of them died, and the other was at his last breath. And his mother,
weeping, lifted him up, and took him to the Lady Mary, and said: O my
lady, aid me and succour me. For I had two sons, and I have just buried the
one, and the other is at the point of death. See how I am going to entreat
and pray to God. And she began to say: O Lord, Thou art compassionate,
and merciful, and full of affection. Thou gavest me two sons, of whom
Thou hast taken away the one: this one at least leave to me. Wherefore the
Lady Mary, seeing the fervour of her weeping, had compassion on her,
and said: Put thy son in my son's bed, and cover him with his clothes. And
when she had put him in the bed in which Christ was lying, he had already
closed his eyes in death; but as soon as the smell of the clothes of the
Lord Jesus Christ reached the boy, he opened his eyes, and, calling upon
his mother with a loud voice, he asked for bread, and took it and sucked it.
Then his mother said: O Lady Mary, now I know that the power of God
dwelleth in thee, so that thy son heals those that partake of the same
nature with himself, as soon as they have touched his clothes. This boy
that was healed is he who in the Gospel is called Bartholomew.
31. Moreover, there was there a leprous woman, and she went to the Lady
Mary, the mother of Jesus, and said: My lady, help me. And the Lady Mary
answered: What help dost thou seek? Is it gold or silver? or is it that thy
body be made clean from the leprosy? And that woman asked: Who can
grant me this? And the Lady Mary said to her: Wait a little, until I shall have
washed my son Jesus, and put him to bed. The woman waited, as Mary had
told her; and when she had put Jesus to bed, she held out to the woman
the water in which she had washed His body, and said: Take a little of this
water, and pour it over thy body. And as soon as she had done so, she was
cleansed, and gave praise and thanks to God.
32. Therefore, after staying with her three days, she went away; and
coming to a city, saw there one of the chief men, who had married the
daughter of another of the chief men. But when he saw the woman, he
beheld between her eyes the mark of leprosy in the shape of a star; and so
the marriage was dissolved, and became null and void. And when that

JESUS † The Complete Biography
woman saw them in this condition, weeping and overwhelmed with sorrow,
she asked the cause of their grief. But they said: Inquired not into our
condition, for to no one living can we tell our grief, and to none but
ourselves can we disclose it. She urged them, however, and entreated them
to entrust it to her, saying that she would perhaps be able to tell them of a
remedy. And when they showed her the girl, and the sign of leprosy which
appeared between her eyes, as soon as she saw it, the woman said: I also,
whom you see here, laboured under the same disease, when, upon some
business which happened to come in my way, I went to Bethlehem. There
going into a cave, I saw a woman named Mary, whose son was he who was
named Jesus; and when she saw that I was a leper. she took pity on me,
and handed me the water with which she had washed her son's body. With
it I sprinkled my body, and came out clean. Then the woman said to her:
Wilt thou not, O lady, rise and go with us, and show us the Lady Mary?
And she assented; and they rose and went to the Lady Mary, carrying with
them splendid gifts. And when they had gone in, and presented to her the
gifts, they showed her the leprous girl whom they had brought. The Lady
Mary  therefore  said:  May  the  compassion  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ
descend upon you; and handling to them also a little of the water in which
she had washed the body of Jesus Christ, she ordered the wretched
woman  to  be  bathed  in  it.  And  when  this  had  been  done,  she  was
immediately cured; and they, and all standing by, praised God. Joyfully
therefore they returned to their own city, praising the Lord for what He
had done. And when the chief heard that his wife had been cured, he took
her home, and made a second marriage, and gave thanks to God for the
recovery of his wife's health.
33. There was there also a young woman afflicted by Satan; for that
accursed wretch repeatedly appeared to her in the form of a huge dragon,
and prepared to swallow her. He also sucked out all her blood, so that she
was left like a corpse. As often as he came near her, she, with her hands
clasped over her head, cried out, and said: Woe, woe's me, for nobody is
near to free me from that accursed dragon. And her father and mother,
and all who were about her or saw her, bewailed her lot; and men stood

JESUS † The Complete Biography
round her in a crowd, and all wept and lamented, especially when she wept,
and said: Oh, my brethren and friends, is there no one to free me from that
murderer? And the daughter of the chief who had been healed of her
leprosy, hearing the girl's voice, went up to the roof of her castle, and saw
her with her hands clasped over her head weeping, and all the crowds
standing round her weeping as wall. She therefore asked the demoniac's
husband whether his wife's mother were alive. And when he answered that
both her parents were living, she said: Send for her mother to come to me.
And when she saw that he had sent for her, and she had come, she said: Is
that distracted girl thy daughter? Yes, O lady, said that sorrowful and
weeping woman, she is my daughter. The chiefs daughter answered: Keep
my secret, for I confess to thee that I was formerly a leper; but now the
Lady Mary, the mother of Jesus Christ, has healed me. But if thou wishest
thy daughter to be healed, take her to Bethlehem, and seek Mary the
mother of Jesus, and believe that thy daughter will be healed; I indeed
believe that thou wilt come back with joy, with thy daughter healed. As
soon as the woman heard the words of the chief's daughter, she led away
her daughter in haste; and going to the place indicated, she went to the
Lady Mary, and revealed to her the state of her daughter. And the Lady
Mary hearing her words, gave her a little of the water in which she had
washed the body of her son Jesus, and ordered her to pour it on the body
of her daughter. She gave her also from the clothes of the Lord Jesus a
swathing-cloth, saying: Take this cloth, and show it to thine enemy as
often as thou shalt see him. And she saluted them, and sent them away.
34. When, therefore, they had gone away from her, and returned to their
own district, and the time was at hand at which Satan was wont to attack
her, at this very time that accursed one appeared to her in the shape of a
huge dragon, and the girl was afraid at the sight of him. And her mother
said to her: Fear not, my daughter; allow him to come near thee, and then
show him the cloth which the Lady Mary hath given us, and let us see what
will happen. Satan, therefore, having come near in the likeness of a terrible
dragon, the body of the girl shuddered for fear of him; but as soon as she
took out the cloth, and placed it on her head, and covered her eyes with it,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
flames and live coals began to dart forth from it, and to be cast upon the
dragon. O the great miracle which was done as soon as the dragon saw the
cloth of the Lord Jesus, from which the fire darted, and was cast upon his
head and eyes! He cried out with a loud voice: What have I to do with thee,
O Jesus, son of Mary? Whither shall I fly from thee? And with great fear he
turned  his  back  and  departed  from  the  girl,  and  never  afterwards
appeared to her. And the girl now had rest from him, and gave praise and
thanks to God, and along with her all who were present at that miracle.
35. Another woman was living in the same place, whose son was tormented
by Satan. He, Judas by name, as often as Satan seized him, used to bite all
who came near him; and if he found no one near him, he used to bite his
own hands and other limbs. The mother of this wretched creature, then,
hearing the fame of the Lady Mary and her son Jesus, rose up and
brought her son Judas with her to the Lady Mary. In the meantime, James
and Joses had taken the child the Lord Jesus with them to play with the
other children; and they had gone out of the house and sat down, and the
Lord Jesus with them. And the demoniac Judas came up, and sat down at
Jesus' right hand: then, being attacked by Satan in the same manner as
usual, he wished to bite the Lord Jesus, but was not able; nevertheless he
struck  Jesus  on  the  right  side,  whereupon  He  began  to  weep.  And
immediately Satan went forth out of that boy, fleeing like a mad dog. And
this boy who struck Jesus, and out of whom Satan went forth in the shape
of a dog, was Judas Iscariot, who betrayed Him to the Jews; and that same
side on which Judas struck Him, the Jews transfixed with a lance.(1)
36. Now, when the Lord Jesus had completed seven years from His birth,
on a certain day He was occupied with boys of His own age. For they were
playing among clay, from which they were making images of asses, oxen,
birds, and other animals; and each one boasting of his skill, was praising
his own work. Then the Lord Jesus said to the boys: The images that I
have made I will order to walk. The boys asked Him whether then he were
the son of the Creator; and the Lord Jesus bade them walk. And they
immediately began to leap; and then, when He had given them leave, they
again stood still. And He had made figures of birds and sparrows, which

JESUS † The Complete Biography
flew when He told them to fly, and stood still when He told them to stand,
and ate and drank when He handed them food and drink. After the boys
had gone away and told this to their parents, their fathers said to them:
My sons, take care not to keep company with him again, for he is a wizard:
flee from him, therefore, and avoid him, and do not play with him again
after this.
37. On a certain day the Lord Jesus, running about and playing with the
boys, passed the shop of a dyer, whose name was Salem; and he had in his
shop many pieces of cloth which he was to dye. The Lord Jesus then,
going into his shop, took up all the pieces of cloth, and threw them into a
tub full of indigo. And when Salem came and saw his cloths destroyed, he
began to cry out with a loud voice, and to reproach Jesus, saying: Why
hast thou done this to me, O son of Mary? Thou hast disgraced me before
all my townsmen: for, seeing that every one wished the colour that suited
himself, thou indeed hast come and destroyed them all. The Lord Jesus
answered: I shall change for thee the colour of any piece of cloth which
thou shalt wish to be changed. And immediately He began to take the
pieces of cloth out of the tub, each of them of that colour which the dyer
wished, until He had taken them all out. When the Jews saw this miracle and
prodigy, they praised God.
38. And Joseph used to go about through the whole city, and take the
Lord Jesus with him, when people sent for him in the way of his trade to
make for them doors, and milk-pails, and beds, and chests; and the Lord
Jesus was with him wherever he went. As often, therefore, as Joseph had
to make anything a cubit or a span longer or shorter, wider or narrower,
the Lord Jesus stretched His hand towards it; and as soon as He did so, it
became such as Joseph wished. Nor was it necessary for him to make
anything with his own hand, for Joseph was not very skilful in carpentry.
39. Now, on a certain day, the king of Jerusalem sent for him, and said: I
wish thee, Joseph, to make for me a throne to fit that place in which I
usually sit. Joseph obeyed, and began the work immediately, and remained
in the palace two years, until he finished the work of that throne. And when

JESUS † The Complete Biography
he had it carried to its place, he perceived that each side wanted two spans
of the prescribed measure. And the king, seeing this, was angry with
Joseph; and Joseph, being in great fear of the king, spent the night
without supper, nor did he taste anything at all. Then, being asked by the
Lord Jesus why he was afraid, Joseph said: Because I have spoiled all the
work that I have been two years at. And the Lord Jesus said to him: Fear
not, and do not lose heart; but do thou take hold of one side of the
throne; I shall take the other; and we shall put that to rights. And Joseph,
having done as the Lord Jesus had said and each having drawn by his own
side, the throne was put to rights, and brought to the exact measure of the
place. And those that stood by and saw this miracle were struck with
astonishment, and praised God. And the woods used in that throne were
of those which are celebrated in the time of Solomon the son of David;
that is, woods of many and various kinds.
40. On another day the Lord Jesus went out into the road, and saw the
boys that had come together to play, and followed them; but the boys hid
themselves from Him. The Lord Jesus, therefore, having come to the door
of a certain house, and seen some women standing there, asked them
where the boys had gone; and when they answered that there was no one
there, He said again: Who are these whom you see in the furnace?' They
replied that they were kids of three years old. And the Lord Jesus cried
out, and said: Come out hither, O kids, to your Shepherd. Then the boys,
in the form of kids, came out, and began to dance round Him; and the
women, seeing this, were very much astonished, and were seized with
trembling, and speedily, supplicated and adored the Lord Jesus, saying: O
our Lord Jesus, son of Mary, Thou art of a truth that good Shepherd of
Israel; have mercy on Thy handmaidens who stand before Thee, and who
have never doubted: for Thou hast come, O our Lord, to heal, and not to
destroy. And when the Lord Jesus answered that the sons of Israel were
like the Ethiopians among the nations, the women said: Thou, O Lord,
knowest all things, nor is anything hid from Thee; now, indeed, we beseech
Thee, and ask Thee of Thy affection to restore these boys Thy servants
to their former condition. The Lord Jesus therefore said: Come, boys, let

JESUS † The Complete Biography
us go and play. And immediately, while these women were standing by, the
kids were changed into boys.
41. Now in the month Adar, Jesus, after the manner of a king, assembled
the boys together. They spread their clothes on the ground, and He sat
down upon them. Then they put on His head a crown made of flowers, and,
like chamber-servants, stood in His presence, on the right and on the left,
as if  He  were a king.  And whoever  passed by that way was forcibly
dragged by the boys, saying: Come hither, and adore the king; then go thy
way.
42. In the meantime, while these things were going on, some men came up
carrying a boy. For this boy had gone into the mountain with those of his
own age to seek wood, and there he found a partridge's nest; and when he
stretched out his hand to take the eggs from it, a venomous serpent bit him
from the middle of the nest, so that he called out for help. His comrades
accordingly went to him with haste, and found him lying on the ground like
one dead. Then his relations came and took hun up to carry him back to
the city. And after they had come to that place where the Lord Jesus was
sitting like a king, and the rest of the boys standing round Him like His
servants, the boys went hastily forward to meet him who had been bitten
by the serpent, and said to his relations: Come and salute the king. Bat
when they were unwilling to go, on account of the sorrow in I which they
were, the boys dragged them by force against their will. And when they
had come up to the Lord Jesus, He asked them why they were carrying the
boy. And when they answered that a serpent had bitten him, the Lord
Jesus said to the boys: Let us go and kill that serpent. And the parents of
the boy asked leave to go away, because their son was in the agony of
death; but the boys answered them, saying: Did you not hear the king
saying: Let us go kill the serpent? and will yon not obey him? And so,
against their will the could was carried back. And when they came to the
nest, the Lord Jesus said to the boys: Is this the serpent's place? They
saint that it was; and the serpent, at the call of the Lord, came forth
without delay, and submitted itself to Him. And He said to it: Go away, and
suck out all the poison which thou hast infused into this boy. And so the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
serpent crawled to the boy, and sucked out all its poison. Then the Lord
Jesus cursed it, and immediately on this being done it burst asunder; and
the Lord Jesus stroked the boy with his hand, and he was healed. And he
began to weep; but Jesus said: Do not weep, for by and by thou shalt be
my disciple. And this is Simon the Cananite,(2) of whom mention is made in
the Gospel.(3)
43. On another day, Joseph sent his son James to gather wood, and the
Lord Jesus went with him as his companion. And when they had come to
the place where the wood was, and James had begun to gather it, behold,
a venomous viper bit his band, so that he began to cry out and weep. The
Lord Jesus then, seeing him in this condition, went up to him, and blew
upon the place where the viper had bitten him; and this being done, he was
healed immediately.
44. One day, when the Lord Jesus was again with the boys playing on the
roof of a house, one of the boys fell down from above, and immediately
expired. And the rest of the boys fled in all directions, and the Lord Jesus
was left alone on the roof. And the relations of the boy came up and said
to the Lord Jesus: It was thou who didst throw our son headlong from the
roof. And when He denied it, they cried out, saying: Our son is dead, and
here is he who has killed him. And the Lord Jesus said to them: Do not
bring an evil report against me; but if you do not believe me, come and let
us ask the boy himself, that be may bring the truth to light. Then the Lord
Jesus went down, and standing over the dead body, said, with a loud voice:
Zeno, Zeno, who threw thee down from the roof? Then the dead boy
answered and said: My lord, it was not thou who didst throw me down, but
such a one cast me down from it. And when the Lord commanded those
who were standing by to attend to His words, all who were present praised
God for this miracle.
45. Once upon a time the Lady Mary had ordered the Lord Jesus to go
and bring her water from the well. And when He had gone to get the water,
the pitcher already full was knocked against something, and broken. And
the Lord Jesus stretched out His handkerchief, and collected the water,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and carried it to His mother; and she was astonished at it. And she hid and
preserved in her heart all that she saw.
46. Again, on another day, the Lord Jesus was with the boys at a stream of
water, and they had again made little fish-ponds. And the Lord Jesus had
made twelve sparrows, and had arranged them round His fish-pond, three
on each side. And it was the Sabbath-day. Wherefore a Jew, the son of
Hanan, coming up, and seeing them thus engaged, said in anger and great
indignation: Do you make figures of clay on the Sabbath-day? And he ran
quickly, and destroyed their fish-ponds. But when the Lord Jesus clapped
His hands over the sparrows which He had made, they flew away chirping.
Then the son of Hanan came up to the fish-pond of Jesus also, and kicked
it with his shoes, and the water of it vanished away. And the Lord Jesus
said to him: As that water has vanished away, so thy life shall likewise
vanish away. And immediately that boy dried up.
47. At another time, when the Lord Jesus was returning home with Joseph
in the evening. He met a boy, who ran up against Him with so much force
that He fell. And the Lord Jesus said to him: As thou hast thrown me down,
so thou shall fall and not rise again. And the same hour the boy fell down,
and expired.
48. There was, moreover, at Jerusalem, a certain man named Zacchaeus,
who taught boys. He said to Joseph: Why, O Joseph, dost thou not bring
Jesus to the to learn his letters? Joseph agreed to do so, and reported the
matter to the Lady Mary. They therefore took Him to the master; and he,
as soon as he saw Him, wrote out the alphabet for Him, and told Him to say
Aleph.  And  when  He  had  said  Aleph,  the  master  ordered  Him  to
pronounce Beth. And the Lord Jesus said to him: Tell me first the meaning
of the letter Aleph, and then I shall pronounce Beth. And when the master
threatened to flog Him, the Lord Jesus explained to him the meanings of
the letters Aleph and Beth; also which figures of the letter were straight,
which crooked, which drawn round into a spiral, which marked with points,
which without them, why one letter went before another; and many other
things He began to recount and to elucidate which the master himself had

JESUS † The Complete Biography
never either heard or read in any book. The Lord Jesus, moreover, said to
the master: Listen, and I shall say them to thee. And He began clearly and
distinctly to repeat Aleph, Beth, Gimel, Daleth, on to Tau. And the master
was astonished, and said: I think that this boy was born before Noah. And
turning to Joseph, be said: Thou hast brought to me to be taught a boy
more learned than all the masters. To the Lady Mary also be said: This son
of thine has no need of instruction.
49. Thereafter they took Him to another and a more learned master, who,
when be saw Him, said: Say Aleph. And when He had said Aleph, the
master ordered him to pronounce Beth. And the Lord Jesus answered him,
and said: First tell me the meaning of the letter Aleph, and then I shall
pronounce Beth. And when the master hereupon raised his hand and
flogged  Him,  immediately  his  hand  dried  up,  and  he  died.  Then  said
Joseph, to the Lady Mary: From this time we shall not let him go out of the
house, since every one who opposes him is struck dead.
In The History of Joseph the Carpenter83 we find another account of
Jesus growing up in Galilee:
9. Now Herod died by the worst form of death, atoning for the shedding of
the blood of the children whom he wickedly cut off, though there was no
sin in them. And that impious tyrant Herod being dead, they returned into
the land of Israel, and lived in a city of Galilee which is called Nazareth. And
Joseph, going back to his trade of a carpenter, earned his living by the
work of his hands; for, as the law of Moses had commanded, he never
sought to live for nothing by another's labour.
10. At length, by increasing years, the old man arrived at a very advanced
age. He did not, however, labour under any bodily weakness, nor had his
sight failed, nor had any tooth perished from his mouth. In mind also, for
the whole time of his life, he never wandered; but like a boy he always in his
business displayed youthful vigour, and his limbs remained unimpaired,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and free from all pain. His life, then, in all, amounted to one hundred and
eleven years, his old age being prolonged to the utmost limit.
11. Now Justus and Simeon, the eider sons of Joseph, were married, and
had families of their own. Both the daughters were likewise married, and
lived in their own houses. So there remained in Joseph's house, Judas and
James the Less, and my virgin mother. I moreover dwelt along with them,
not otherwise than if I had been one of his sons. But I passed all my life
without fault. Mary I called my mother, and Joseph father, and I obeyed
them in all that they said; nor did I ever contend against them, but complied
with their commands, as other men whom earth produces are wont to do;
nor did I at any time arouse their anger, or give any word or answer in
opposition to them. On the contrary, I cherished them with great love, like
the pupil of my eye.
12. It came to pass, after these things, that the death of that old man, the
pious Joseph, and his departure from this world, were approaching, as
happens to other men who owe their origin to this earth. And as his body
was verging on dissolution, an angel of the Lord informed him that his
death was now close at hand. Therefore fear and great perplexity came
upon him. So he rose up and went to Jerusalem; and going into the temple
of the Lord, he poured out his prayers there before the sanctuary, and
said:
13. O God! author of all consolation, God of all compassion, and Lord of
the whole human race; God of my soul, body, and spirit; with supplications
I reverence thee, O Lord and my God. If now my days are ended, and the
time draws near when I must leave this world, send me, I beseech Thee, the
great Michael, the prince of Thy holy angels: let him remain with me, that
my wretched soul may depart from this afflicted body without trouble,
without terror and impatience. For great fear and intense sadness take
hold of all bodies on the day of their death, whether it be man or woman,
beast wild or tame, or whatever creeps on the ground or flies in the air. At
the last all creatures under heaven in whom is the breath of life are struck
with horror, and their souls depart from their bodies with strong fear and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
great depression. Now therefore, O Lord and my God, let Thy holy angel
be present with his help to my soul and body, until they shall be dissevered
from each other. And let not the face of the angel, appointed my guardian
from the day of my birth, be turned away from me; but may he be the
companion  of  my  journey  even  until  he  bring  me  to  Thee:  let  his
countenance be pleasant and gladsome to me, and let him accompany me
in peace. And let not demons of frightful aspect come near me in the way in
which I am to go, until I come to Thee in bliss. And let not the doorkeepers
hinder my soul from entering paradise. And do not uncover my sins, and
expose me to condemnation before Thy terrible tribunal. Let not the lions
rush in upon me; nor let the waves of the sea of fire overwhelm my soul--
for this must every soul pass through --before I have seen the glory of
Thy Godhead. O God, most righteous Judge, who in justice and equity wilt
judge mankind, and wilt render unto each one according to his works, O
Lord and my God, I beseech Thee, be present to me in Thy compassion,
and enlighten my path that I may come to Thee; for Thou art a fountain
overflowing with all good things, and with glory for evermore.  Amen.
14. It came to pass thereafter, when he returned to his own house in the
city of Nazareth, that he was seized by disease, and had to keep his bed.
And it was at this time that he died, according to the destiny of all mankind.
For this disease was very heavy upon him, and he had never been ill, as he
now was, from the day of his birth. And thus assuredly it pleased Christ to
order the destiny of righteous Joseph. He lived forty years unmarried;
thereafter his wife remained under his care forty-nine years, and then
died. And a year after her death, my mother, the blessed Mary, was
entrusted to him by the priests, that he should keep her until the time of
her marriage. She spent two years in his house; and in the third year of her
stay with Joseph, in the fifteenth year of her age, she brought me forth on
earth by a mystery which no creature can penetrate or understand, except
myself, and my Father and the Holy Spirit, constituting one essence with
myself.
15. The whole age of my father, therefore, that righteous old man, was one
hundred and eleven years, my Father in heaven having so decreed. And

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the day on which his soul left his body was the twenty-sixth of the month
Abib. For now the fine gold began to lose its splendour, and the silver to be
worn down by use--I mean his understanding and his wisdom. He also
loathed food and drink, and lost all his skill in his trade of carpentry, nor
did he any more pay attention to it. It came to pass, then, in the early dawn
of the twenty-sixth day of Abib, that Joseph, that righteous old man, lying
in his bed, was giving up his unquiet soul. Wherefore he opened his mouth
with many sighs, and struck his hands one against the other, and with a
loud voice cried out, and spoke after the following manner:--
16. Woe to the day on which I was born into the world! Woe to the womb
which bare me! Woe to the bowels which admitted me! Woe to the breasts
which suckled me! Woe to the feet upon which I sat and rested! Woe to the
hands which carried me and reared me until I grew up! (1) For I was
conceived in iniquity, and in sins did my mother desire me. (2) Woe to my
tongue  and  my  lips,  which  have  brought  forth  and  spoken  vanity,
detraction, falsehood, ignorance, derision, idle tales, craft, and hypocrisy!
Woe to mine eyes, which have looked upon scandalous things! Woe to mine
ears, which have delighted in the words of slanderers! Woe to my hands,
which have seized what did not of right belong to them! Woe to my belly
and my bowels, which have lusted after food unlawful to be eaten! Woe to
my throat, which like a fire has consumed all that it found! Woe to my feet,
which have too often walked in ways displeasing to God! Woe to my body;
and woe to my miserable soul, which has already turned aside from God its
Maker! What shall I do when I arrive at that place where I must stand before
the most righteous Judge, and when He shall call me to account for the
works which I have heaped up in my youth? Woe to every man dying in his
sins! Assuredly that same dreadful hour, which came upon my father
Jacob, (3) when his soul was flying forth from his body, is now, behold,
near at hand for me. Oh! how wretched I am this day, and worthy of
lamentation! But God alone is the disposer of my soul and body; He also
will deal with them after His own good pleasure.
17. These are the words spoken by Joseph, that righteous old man. And I,
going in beside him, found his soul exceedingly troubled, for he was placed

JESUS † The Complete Biography
in  great  perplexity.  And  I  said  to  him:  Hail!  my  father  Joseph,  thou
righteous man; how is it with thee? And he answered me: All hail! my well-
beloved son. Indeed, the agony and fear of death have already environed
me; but as soon as I heard Thy voice, my soul was at rest. O Jesus of
Nazareth! Jesus, my Saviour! Jesus, the deliverer of my soul! Jesus, my
protector! Jesus! O sweetest name in my mouth, and in the mouth of all
those that love it! O eye which seest, and ear which hearest, hear me! I am
Thy servant; this day I most humbly reverence Thee, and before Thy face I
pour out my tears. Thou art altogether my God; Thou art my Lord, as the
angel has told me times without number, and especially on that day when
my soul was driven about with perverse thoughts about the pure and
blessed Mary, who was carrying Thee in her womb, and whom I was thinking
of secretly sending away. And while I was thus meditating, behold, there
appeared to me in my rest angels of the Lord, saying to me in a wonderful
mystery: O Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take Mary as thy wife;
and  do  not  grieve  thy  soul,  nor  speak  unbecoming  words  of  her
conception, because she is with child of the Holy Spirit, and shall bring
forth a son, whose name shall be called Jesus, for He shall save His people
from their sins. Do not for this cause wish me evil, O Lord! for I was
ignorant of the mystery of Thy birth. I call to mind also, my Lord, that day
when the boy died of the bite of the serpent. And his relations wished to
deliver Thee to Herod, saying that Thou hadst killed him; but Thou didst
raise him from the dead, and restore him to them. Then I went up to Thee,
and took hold of Thy hand, saying: My son, take care of thyself. But Thou
didst say to me in reply: Art thou not my father after the flesh? I shall teach
thee who I am. (4) Now therefore, O Lord and my God, do not be angry
with me, or condemn me on account of that hour. I am Thy servant, and the
son of Thine handmaiden; (5) but Thou art my Lord, my God and Saviour,
most surely the Son of God.
18. When my father Joseph had thus spoken, he was unable to weep more.
And I saw that death now had dominion over him. And my mother, virgin
undefiled, rose and came to me, saying: O my beloved son, this pious old
man  Joseph  is  now  dying.  And  I  answered:  Oh  my  dearest  mother,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
assuredly upon all creatures produced in this world the same necessity of
death lies; for death holds sway over the whole human race. Even thou, O
my virgin mother, must look for the same end of life as other mortals. And
yet thy death, as also the death of this pious man, is not death, but life
enduring to eternity. Nay more, even I must die, as concerns the body
which I have received from thee. But rise, O my venerable mother, and go in
to Joseph, that blessed old man, in order that thou mayst see what will
happen as his soul ascends from his body.
19. My undefiled mother Mary, therefore, went and entered the place
where Joseph was. And I was sitting at his feet looking at him, for the signs
of death already appeared in his countenance. And that blessed old man
raised his head, and kept his eyes fixed on my face; but he had no power
of speaking to me, on account of the agonies of death, which held him in
their grasp. But he kept fetching many sighs. And I held his hands for a
whole hour; and he turned his face to me, and made signs for me not to
leave him. Thereafter I put my hand upon his breast, and perceived his soul
now near his throat, preparing to depart from its receptacle.
20. And when my virgin mother saw me touching his body, she also touched
his feet. And finding them already dead and destitute of heat, she said to
me: O my beloved son, assuredly his feet are already beginning to stiffen,
and they are as cold as snow. Accordingly she summoned his sons and
daughters, and said to them: Come, as many as there are of you, and go to
your father; for assuredly he is now at the very point of death. And Assia,
his daughter, answered and said: Woe's me, O my brothers, this is certainly
the same disease that my beloved mother died of. And she lamented and
shed tears; and all Joseph's other children mourned along with her. I also,
and my mother Mary, wept along with them. (1)
21. And turning my eyes towards the region of the south, I saw Death
already approaching, and all Gehenna with him, closely attended by his
army and his satellites; and their clothes, their faces, and their mouths
poured forth flames. And when my father Joseph saw them coming straight
to him, his eyes dissolved in tears, and at the same time he groaned after a

JESUS † The Complete Biography
strange manner. Accordingly, when I saw the vehemence of his sighs, I
drove back Death and all the host of servants which accompanied him.
And I called upon my good Father, saying:--
22. O Father of all mercy, eye which seest, and ear which hearest, hearken
to my prayers and supplications in behalf of the old man Joseph; and send
Michael, the prince of Thine angels, and Gabriel, the herald of light, and all
the light of Thine angels, and let their whole array walk with the soul of my
father Joseph, until they shall have conducted it to Thee. This is the hour
in which my father has need of compassion. And I say unto you, that all the
saints, yea, as many men as are born in the world, whether they be just or
whether they be perverse, must of necessity taste of death.
23. Therefore Michael and Gabriel came to the soul of my father Joseph,
and took it, and wrapped it in a shining wrapper. Thus he committed his
spirit into the hands of my good Father, and He bestowed upon him peace.
But as yet none of his children knew that he had fallen asleep. And the
angels preserved his soul from the demons of darkness which were in the
way, and praised God even until they conducted it into the dwelling-place
of the pious.
24. Now his body was lying prostrate and bloodless; wherefore I reached
forth my hand, and put right his eyes and shut his mouth, and said to the
virgin Mary: O my mother, where is the skill which he showed in all the time
that he lived in this world? Lo! it has perished, as if it had never existed.
And when his children heard me speaking with my mother, the pure virgin,
they knew that he had already breathed his last, and they shed tears, and
lamented. But I said to them: Assuredly the death of your father is not
death, but life everlasting: for he has been freed from the troubles of this
life, and has passed to perpetual and everlasting rest. When they heard
these words, they rent their clothes, and wept.
25. And, indeed, the inhabitants of Nazareth and of Galilee, having heard
of their lamentation, flocked to them, and wept from the third hour even to
the ninth. And at the ninth hour they all went together to Joseph's bed.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
And they lifted his body, after they had anointed it with costly unguents.
But I entreated my Father in the prayer of the celestials--that same prayer
which with any own hand I made before I was carried in the womb of the
virgin Mary, my mother. And as soon as I had finished it, and pronounced
the amen, a great multitude of angels came up; and I ordered two of them
to stretch out their shining garments, and to wrap in them the body of
Joseph, the blessed old man.
26. And I spoke to Joseph, and said: The smell or corruption of death shall
not have dominion over thee, nor shall a worm ever come forth from thy
body. Not a single limb of it shall be broken, nor shall any hair on thy head
be changed. Nothing of thy body shall perish, O my father Joseph, but it
will remain entire and uncorrupted even until the banquet of the thousand
years.  (2)  And  whosoever  shall  make  an  offering  on  the  day  of  thy
remembrance, him will I bless and recompense in the congregation of the
virgins; and whosoever shall give food to the wretched, the poor, the
widows, and orphans from the work of his hands, on the day on which thy
memory shall be celebrated, and in thy name, shall not be in want of good
things all the days of his life. And whosoever shall have given a cup of
water, or of wine, to drink to the widow or orphan in thy name, I will give him
to thee, that thou mayst go in with him to the banquet of the thousand
years. And every man who shall present an offering on the day of thy
commemoration will I bless and recompense in the church of the virgins: for
one I will render unto him thirty, sixty, and a hundred. And whosover shall
write the history of thy life, of thy labour, and thy departure from this
world, and this narrative that has issued from my mouth, him shall I commit
to thy keeping as long as he shall have to do with this life. And when his
soul departs from the body, and when he must leave this world, I will bum
the book of his sins, nor will I torment him with any punishment in the day
of judgment; but he shall cross the sea of flames, and shall go through it
without trouble or pain. (1) And upon every poor man who can give none of
those things which I have mentioned this is incumbent: viz., if a son is born
to him, he shall call his name Joseph. So there shall not take place in that
house either poverty or any sudden death for ever.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
27. Thereafter the chief men of the city came together to the place where
the body of the blessed old man Joseph had been laid, bringing with them
burial-clothes; and they wished to wrap it up in them after the manner in
which the Jews are wont to arrange their dead bodies. And they perceived
that he kept his shroud fast; for it adhered to the body in such a way, that
when they wished to take it off, it was found to be like iron--impossible to
be moved or loosened. Nor could they find any ends in that piece of linen,
which struck them with the greatest astonishment. At length they carried
him out to a place where there was a cave, and opened the gate, that they
might bury his body beside the bodies of his fathers. Then there came into
my mind the day on which he walked with me into Egypt, and that extreme
trouble which he endured on my account. Accordingly, I bewailed his death
for a long time; and lying upon his body, I said:--
28. O Death! who makest all knowledge to vanish away, and raisest so
many tears and lamentations, surely it is God my Father Himself who hath
granted thee this power. For men die for the transgression of Adam and
his wife Eve, and Death spares not so much as one. Nevertheless, nothing
happens to any one, or is brought upon him, without the command of my
Father. There have certainly been men who have prolonged their life even
to nine hundred years; but they died. Yea, though some of them have lived
longer, they have, notwithstanding, succumbed to the same fate; nor has
any one of them ever said: I have not tasted death. For the Lord never
sends the same punishment more than once, since it hath pleased my
Father to bring it upon men. And at the very moment when it, going forth,
beholds the command descending to it from heaven, it says: I will go forth
against that man, and will greatly move him. Then, without delay, it makes
an onset on the soul, and obtains the mastery of it, doing with it whatever it
will. For, because Adam did not the will of my Father, but transgressed His
commandment, the wrath of my Father was kindled against him, and He
doomed him to death; and thus it was that death came into the world. But if
Adam had observed my Father's precepts, death would never have fallen
to his lot. Think you that I can ask my good Father to send me a chariot of
fire, (2) which may take up the body of my father Joseph, and convey it to

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the place of rest, in order that it may dwell with the spirits? But on account
of the transgression of Adam, that trouble and violence of death has
descended upon all the human race. And it is for this cause that I must die
according to the flesh, for my work which I have created, that they may
obtain grace.
29. Having thus spoken, I embraced the body of my father Joseph, and
wept over it; and they opened the door of the tomb, and placed his body
in it, near the body of his father Jacob. And at the time when he fell asleep
he had fulfilled a hundred and eleven years. Never did a tooth in his mouth
hurt him, nor was his eyesight rendered less sharp, nor his body bent, nor
his strength impaired; but he worked at his trade of a carpenter to the very
last day of his life; and that was the six-and-twentieth of the month Abib.
The History of Joseph the Carpenter continues with an exchange
between the apostles and Jesus which indicates the honor in which he held
his foster father:
30. And we apostles, when we heard these things from our Saviour, rose
up joyfully, and prostrated ourselves in honour of Him, and said: O our
Saviour, show us Thy grace. Now indeed we have heard the word of life:
nevertheless we wonder, O our Saviour, at the fate of Enoch and Elias,
inasmuch as they had not to undergo death. For truly they dwell in the
habitation of the righteous even to the present day, nor have their bodies
seen corruption. Yet that old man Joseph the carpenter was, nevertheless,
Thy father after the flesh. And Thou hast ordered us to go into all the
world and preach the holy Gospel; and Thou hast said: Relate to them the
death of my father Joseph, and celebrate to him with annual solemnity a
festival and sacred day. And whosoever shall take anything away from this
narrative, or add anything to it, commits sin. (3) We wonder especially that
Joseph, even from that day on which Thou wast born in Bethlehem, called
Thee his son after the flesh. Wherefore, then, didst Thou not make him
immortal as well as them, and Thou sayest that he was righteous and
chosen?

JESUS † The Complete Biography
31. And our Saviour answered and said: Indeed, the prophecy of my Father
upon Adam, for his disobedience, has now been fulfilled. And all things are
arranged according to the will and pleasure of my Father. For if a man
rejects the commandment of God, and follows the works of the devil by
committing sin, his life is prolonged; for be is preserved in order that he
may perhaps repent, and reflect that he must be delivered into the hands
of death. But if any one has been zealous of good works, his life also is
prolonged, that, as the fame of his old age increases, upright men may
imitate him.  But  when  you  see  a man  whose  mind  is  prone to  anger,
assuredly his days are shortened; for it is these that are taken away in the
flower  of  their  age.  Every  prophecy,  therefore,  which  my  Father  has
pronounced  concerning  the  sons  of  men,  must  be  fulfilled  in  every
particular. But with reference to Enoch and Elias, and how they remain
alive to this day, keeping the same bodies with which they were born; and
as to what concerns my father Joseph, who has not been allowed as well as
they to remain in the body: indeed, though a man live in the world many
myriads of years, nevertheless at some time or other he is compelled to
exchange life for death.
And I say to you, O my brethren, that they also, Enoch and Elias, (1) must
towards the end of time return into the world and die--in the day, namely,
of commotion, of terror, of perplexity, and affliction. For Antichrist will slay
four bodies, and will pour out their blood like water, because of the
reproach to which they shall expose him, and the ignominy with which they,
in their lifetime, shall brand him when they reveal his impiety.
32. And we said: O our Lord, our God and Saviour, who are those four
whom Thou hast said Antichrist will cut off from the reproach they bring
upon  him?  The  Lord  answered:  They  are  Enoch,  Elias,  Schila,  and
Tabitha. (2) When we heard this from our Saviour, we rejoiced and exulted;
and we offered all glory and thanksgiving to the Lord God, and our
Saviour Jesus Christ.  He it is  to  whom is due glory,  honour,  dignity,
dominion, power, and praise, as well as to the good Father with Him, and to
the Holy Spirit that giveth life, henceforth and in all time for evermore.
Amen.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Again,  we  will  compare  these  accounts  of  the  youth  of  Jesus  with
depictions of the youth of Apollonius84:
On reaching the age when children are taught their letters, he showed
great  strength  of  memory  and  power  of  application;  and  his  tongue
affected the Attic dialect, nor was his accent corrupted by the race he
lived  among.  All  eyes  were  turned  upon  him,  for  he  was,  moreover,
conspicuous for his beauty. When he reached his fourteenth year, his
father brought him to Tarsus, to Euthydemus the teacher from Phoenicia.
Now Euthydemus was a good rhetor, and began his education; but, though
he was attached to his teacher, he found the atmosphere of the city harsh
and strange and little conducive to the philosophic life, for nowhere are
men more addicted than here to luxury; jesters and full of insolence are
they all; and they attend more to their fine linen than the Athenians did to
wisdom; and a stream called the Cydnus runs through their city, along the
banks of which they sit like so many water-fowl. Hence the words which
Apollonius addresses to them in his letter:
"Be done with getting drunk upon your water."
He therefore transferred his teacher, with his father's consent, to the town
of Aegae, which was close by, where he found a peace congenial to one
who would be a philosopher, and a more serious school of study and a
temple of Asclepius, where that god reveals himself in person to men.
There he had as his companions in philosophy followers of Plato and
Chrysippus and peripatetic philosophers85.  And he diligently attended
also to the discourses of Epicurus, for he did not despise these either,
although  it  was  to  those  of  Pythagoras  that  he  applied  himself  with
unspeakable wisdom and ardor. However, his teacher of the Pythagorean
system  was  not  a  very  serious  person,  nor  one  who  practiced  in  his
conduct the philosophy he taught; for he was the slave of his belly and
appetites, and modeled himself upon Epicurus. And this man was Euxenus
from  the  town  of  Heraclea  in  Pontus,  and  he knew the  principles  of
Pythagoras just as birds know what they learn from men; for the birds will
wish you "farewell," and say "Good day" or "Zeus help you," and such like,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
without understanding what they say and without any real sympathy for
mankind, merely because they have been trained to move their tongue in a
certain manner.
Apollonius, however, was like the young eagles who, as long as they are
not fully fledged, fly alongside of their parents and are trained by them in
flight, but who, as soon as they are able to rise in the air, outsoar the
parent birds, especially when they perceive the latter to be greedy and to
be  flying  along  the  ground  in  order  to  snuff  the  quarry;  like  them
Apollonius attended Euxenus as long as he was a child and was guided by
him in the path of argument, but when he reached his sixteenth year he
indulged his impulse towards the life of Pythagoras, being fledged and
winged thereto by some higher power.
Annual Passover visits to Jerusalem
We know from the Gospel of Luke that Jesus and his family made the
sixty-five mile journey to Jerusalem every Passover, but we know little
even about those visits to the Temple and its environs.    There is one
passage though in the Gospel of Luke that tells us something about his
childhood and youth and about his visit to Jerusalem the year before his
bar mitzvah:
2:40 And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom: and
the grace of God was upon him.  2:41 Now his parents went to Jerusalem
every year at the feast of the passover.  2:42 And when he was twelve
years old, they went up to Jerusalem after the custom of the feast.  2:43
And when they had fulfilled the days, as they returned, the child Jesus
tarried behind in Jerusalem; and Joseph and his mother knew not of it.
2:44 But they, supposing him to have been in the company, went a day's
journey; and they sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance.  2:45
And when they found him not, they turned back again to Jerusalem,
seeking him.  2:46 And it came to pass, that after three days they found
him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, both hearing them,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and asking them questions.  2:47 And all that heard him were astonished at
his understanding and answers. 2:48 And when they saw him, they were
amazed: and his mother said unto him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with
us? behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing.  2:49 And he said
unto them, How is it that ye sought me? wist ye not that I must be about my
Father's business? 2:50 And they understood not the saying which he
spake unto them.  2:51 And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth,
and was subject unto them: but his mother kept all these sayings in her
heart.  2:52 And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with
God and man.
In the non-canonical Infancy Gospel of Thomas we read86:
Chapter XV - 1 And when Jesus was twelve years old his parents went as
usual to Jerusalem for the festival of the Passover. But as they started to
turn back, Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem. His parents did not know,
assuming him to be in the group of travelers.  2 They went a day’s journey
and they looked for him among their relatives and friends. When they did
not find him, they returned to Jerusalem to search for him. After three
days they found him in the temple sitting among the teachers, listening to
them and asking them questions. And those listening to him were amazed
how he questioned the elders and explained the main points of the law and
the riddles and the parables of the prophets.  3 And his mother said to
him, “Child, why did you do this to us? Look, we have been searching for
you in great anxiety and distress.” Jesus said to them, “Why were you
searching for me? Did you not know that I must be in my Father’s house?”
4 And the scribes and the Pharisees said to Mary, “Are you the mother of
this child?” And she said, “I am.” And they said to her, “Blessed are you,
because the Lord God has blessed the fruit of your womb. For such
present wisdom and glory of virtue we have never seen nor heard.”  5 And
Jesus rose from there and followed his mother and was obedient to his
parents. And she treasured all these things, pondering them in her heart.
And Jesus increased in wisdom and in years and in grace before God and
men. To whom be the glory forever, amen.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
In  another  of  the  non-canonical  gospels,  the  Gospel  of  Barnabas
(Chapter 9) 87 there is an account of this visit during the twelfth year:
Jesus, having come to the age of twelve years, went up with Mary and
Joseph to Jerusalem, to worship there according to the law of the Lord
written  in  the  book  of  Moses.  When  their  prayers  were  ended  they
departed, having lost Jesus, because they thought that he was returned
home  with  their  kinsfolk.  Mary  therefore  returned  with  Joseph  to
Jerusalem, seeking Jesus among kinsfolk and neighbours. The third day
they found the child in the temple, in the midst of the doctors, disputing
with them concerning the law. And every one was amazed at his questions
and answers, saying: 'How can there be such doctrine in him, seeing he is
so small and hath not learned to read?'   Mary reproved him, saying: 'Son,
what hast thou done to us? Behold I and thy father have sought thee for
three days sorrowing.' Jesus answered: 'Know ye not that the service of
God ought to come before father and mother?' Jesus then went down with
his mother and Joseph to Nazareth, and was subject to them with humility
and reverence.
Similar stories are told of Jesus in Jerusalem at age twelve in the non-
canonical Gospel of Pseudo-Matthew88:
50. And when He was twelve years old, they took Him to Jerusalem to the
feast. And when the feast was finished, they indeed returned; but the Lord
Jesus remained in the temple among the teachers and elders and learned
men of the sons of Israel, to whom He put various questions upon the
sciences, and gave answers in His turn.(1) For He said to them: Whose son
is the Messias? They answered Him: The son of David. Wherefore then,
said He, does he in the Spirit call him his lord, when he says, The Lord said
to my lord, Sit at my right hand, that I may put thine enemies under thy
footsteps?(1) Again the chief of the teachers said to Him: Hast thou read
the books? Both the books, said the Lord Jesus, and the things contained
in the books. And He explained the books, and the law, and the precepts,
and the statutes, and the mysteries, which are contained in the books of
the prophets--things which the understanding of no creature attains to.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
That teacher therefore said: I hitherto have neither attained to nor heard
of such knowledge: Who, pray, do you think that boy will be?
51. And a philosopher who was there present, a skilful astronomer, asked
the Lord Jesus whether He had studied astronomy. And the Lord Jesus
answered him,  and  explained the  number of  the  spheres,  and  of  the
heavenly  bodies,  their  natures  and  operations;  their  opposition;  their
aspect, triangular, square, and sextile; their course, direct and retrograde;
the twenty-fourths,(2) and sixtieths of twenty-fourths; and other things
beyond the reach of reason.
52. There was also among those philosophers one very skilled in treating of
natural science, and he asked the Lord Jesus whether He had studied
medicine. And He, in reply, explained to him physics and metaphysics,
hyperphysics and hypophysics, the powers likewise and humours of the
body, and the effects of the same; also the number of members and
bones, of veins, arteries, and nerves; also the effect of heat and dryness,
of cold and moisture, and what these give rise to; what was the operation
of the soul upon the body, and its perceptions and powers; what was the
operation  of  the  faculty  of  speech,  of  anger,  of  desire;  lastly,  their
conjunction and disjunction, and other things beyond the reach of any
created intellect. Then that philosopher rose up, and adored the Lord
Jesus, and said: O Lord, from this time I will be thy disciple and slave.
53. While they were speaking to each other of these and other things, the
Lady Mary came, after having gone about seeking Him for three days
along with Joseph. She therefore, seeing Him sitting among the teachers
asking them questions, and answering in His turn, said to Him: My son, why
hast thou treated us thus? Behold, thy father and I have sought thee with
great trouble. But He said: Why do you seek me? Do you not know that I
ought to occupy myself in my Father's house? But they did not understand
the  words  that  He  spoke  to  them.  Then  those teachers  asked  Mary
whether He were her son; and when she signified that He was, they said:
Blessed art thou, O Mary, who hast brought forth such a son.  And
returning with them to Nazareth, He obeyed them in all things. And His

JESUS † The Complete Biography
mother kept all these words of His in her heart. And the Lord Jesus
advanced in stature, and in wisdom, and in favour with God and man.(3)
54. And from this day He began to hide His miracles and mysteries and
secrets, and to give attention to the law, until He completed His thirtieth
year, when His Father publicly declared Him at the Jordan by this voice
sent down from heaven: This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased;
the Holy Spirit being present in the form of a white dove.(4)
55. This is He whom we adore with supplications, who hath given us being
and life, and who hath brought us from our mothers' wombs; who for our
sakes assumed a human body, and redeemed us, that He might embrace us
in  eternal  compassion,  and  show  to  us  His  mercy  according  to  His
liberality, and beneficence, and generosity, and benevolence. To Him is
glory, and beneficence, and power, and dominion from this time forth for
evermore. Amen. Here endeth the whole Gospel of the Infancy, with the aid
of God Most High, according to what we have found in the original.
Apollonius also spoke to the priests in a temple, and he seems also to have
been  young  at  the  time.   If  we  admit  the  chronological  order  of
Philastratus’ Biography, then he was scarcely 20 when this occurred [S13].
Here are his purported words to the priests89:
[§9] Now it is well that I should not pass over what happened in the Temple,
while relating the life of a man who was held in esteem even by the gods.
For an Assyrian stripling came to Asclepius, and though he was sick, yet he
lived the life of luxury, and being continually drunk, I will not say he lived,
rather he was ever dying. He suffered then from dropsy, and finding his
pleasure in drunkenness took no care to dry up his malady. On this
account then Asclepius took no care of him, and did not visit him even in a
dream.[3]
The youth grumbled at this, and thereupon the god, standing over him,
said, "If you were to consult Apollonius you would be easier."
He therefore went to Apollonius, and said: "What is there in your wisdom
that I can profit by? for Asclepius bids me consult you."

JESUS † The Complete Biography
And he replied: "I can advise you of what, under the circumstances, will be
most valuable to you; for I suppose you want to get well."
"Yes, by Zeus," answered the other, "I want the health which Asclepius
promises, but never gives."
"Hush," said the other, "for he gives to those who desire it, but you do
things that irritate and aggravate your disease, for you give yourself up to
luxury, and you accumulate delicate viands upon your water-logged and
worn-out stomach, and as it were, choke water with a flood of mud."
This was a clearer response, in my opinion, than Heraclitus, in his wisdom,
gave. For he said when he was visited by this affection that what he needed
was  someone  to  substitute  a  drought  for  a  rainy  weather,  a  very
unintelligible remark, it appears to me, and by no means clear; but the sage
restored the youth to health by a clear interpretation of the wise saw.
[§10] One day he saw a flood of blood upon the altar, and there were
victims laid out upon it, Egyptian bulls that had been sacrificed and great
hogs, and some of them were being flayed and others were being cut up;
and two gold vases had been dedicated set with jewels, the rarest and most
beautiful that India can provide. So he went to the priest and said: "What is
all this; for someone is making a very handsome gift to the god?"
And the priest replied: "You may rather be surprised at a man's offering all
this without having first put up a prayer in our fane, and without having
stayed with us as long as other people do, and without having gained his
health from the god, and without obtaining all the things he came to ask
for. For he appears to have come only yesterday, yet he is sacrificing on
this lavish scale. And he declares that he will sacrifice more victims, and
dedicate more gifts, if Asclepius will hearken to him. And he is one of the
richest men in existence; at any rate he owns in Cilicia an estate bigger than
all the Cilicians together possess. And he is supplicating the god to restore
to him one of his eyes that has fallen out."

JESUS † The Complete Biography
But Apollonius fixed his eyes upon the ground, as he was accustomed to
do in later life, and asked: "What is his name?"
And when he heard it, he said: "It seems to me, O Priest, that we ought not
to welcome this fellow in the Temple: for he is some ruffian who has come
here, and that he is afflicted in this way is due to some sinister reason: nay,
his very conduct in sacrificing on such a magnificent scale before he has
gained anything from the god is not that of a genuine votary, but rather of
a man who is begging himself off for the penalty of some horrible and cruel
deed."
This was what Apollonius said: and Asclepius appeared to the priest by
night, and said: "Send away so and so at once with all his possessions, and
let him keep them, for he deserves to lose the other eye as well."
The priest accordingly made inquiries about the Cilician and learned that
his wife by a former marriage borne a daughter, and he had fallen in love
with the maiden and had seduced her, and was living with her in open sin.
For the mother had surprised the two in bed, and had put out both her
eyes and one of his by stabbing them with her brooch-pin.
[§11] Again he inculcated the wise rule that in our sacrifices or dedications
we should no go beyond the just mean, in the following way. On one
occasion several people had flocked to the Temple, not long after the
expulsion of the Cilician, and he took the occasion to ask the priest the
following questions: "Are then," he said, "the gods just?"
"Why, of course, most just," answered the priest.
"Well, and are they wise?"
"And what," said the other, "can be wiser than the godhead?"
"But do they know the affairs of men, or are they without experience of
them?"
"Why,"  said  the  other,  "this  is  just  the  point  in  which  the  gods  excel
mankind, for the latter, because of their frailty, do not understand their

JESUS † The Complete Biography
own concerns, whereas the gods have the privilege of understanding the
affairs both of men and of themselves."
"All your answers," said Apollonius, "are excellent, O Priest, and very true.
Since then, they know everything, it appears to me that a person who
comes to the house of God and has a good conscience, should put up the
following prayer:
'O ye gods, grant unto me that which I deserve.'
For," he went on, "the holy, O Priest, surely deserve to receive blessings,
and the wicked the contrary. Therefore the gods, as they are beneficent, if
they find anyone who is healthy and whole and unscarred by vice, will send
him on his way, surely, after crowning him, not with golden crowns, but with
all sorts of blessings; but if they find a man branded with sin and utterly
corrupt, they will hand him over and leave him to justice, after inflicting their
wrath upon him all the more, because he dared to invade their Temple
without being pure."
And at the same moment he looked towards Asclepius, and said: "O
Asclepius, the philosophy you teach is secret and congenial to yourself, in
that you suffer not the wicked to come hither, not even if they pour into
your lap all the wealth of India and Sardes. For it is not out of reverence
for  the  divinity  that  they  sacrifice  these  victims  and  suspend  these
offerings, but in order to purchase a verdict, which you will not concede to
them in your perfect justice."
And much similar wisdom he delivered himself of in this Temple, while he
was still a youth.
Jesus as an adult – the missing years
After Jesus impresses the men gathered at the Temple, at age twelve, and
before he reappears in the gospel narrative, at age thirty (Luke 3:23) or
nearly fifty  (John 8:57), there is a gap.  We know nothing at all about his
whereabouts  and  his  doings  and  his  associations…nothing.    Various
authors impatient with this gap have sought to fill it, but their efforts are
speculative at best and often stray far from what we do know about the
man and his character.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
In the biography of Apollonius of Tyana by Philostratus, there is also a gap,
for the better part of twenty or twenty-five years90:
So far, apparently, Philostratus has been dependent upon the account of
Maximus of Ægæ, or perhaps only up to the time of Apollonius’ quitting
Ægæ. There is now a considerable gap in the narrative, and two short
chapters  of  vague  generalities  (i  16,  17)  are  all  that  Philostratus  can
produce as the record of some fifteen or twenty [I am inclined to think,
however, that Apollonius was still a youngish man when he set out on his
Indian  travels,  instead  of  being  forty-six,  as  some  suppose.  But  the
difficulties of most of the chronology are insurmountable.] years, until
Damis’ notes begin.
After the five years of silence, we find Apollonius at Antioch, but this
seems to be only an incident in a long round of travel and work, and it is
probable that Philostratus brings Antioch into prominence merely because
what little he had learnt of this period of Apollonius’ life, he picked up in
this  much-frequented  city.  Even  from  Philostratus  himself  we  learn
incidentally later on (i 20; iv 38) that Apollonius had spent some time
among the Arabians, and had been instructed by them.
In comparison with the gospels on Jesus, the biography of Philostratus is
far more detailed in its account of the adult life of Apollonius.  Hence there
is much more material, either to fill out the legend or to detail the actual
life of the Pythagorean.  Whereas apart from one journey to Egypt as an
infant, the only places Jesus is recorded to have visited were in Judaea,
Samaria,  the  Galilee  and  possibly  Idumaea  (when  he  repairs  to  the
wilderness, as it is just east of Jerusalem and other towns in eastern
Judaea), Apollonius travels a great deal.  In Book One he journeys to
Pamphylia, Lycia and Antioch, to Mesopotamia, Iran, Cissia, Babylonia
and Ecbatana.  In Book Two he journeys through the Caucasus to India.  In
Book Three he visits the Hindu sages in India.  In Book Four he visits
Greek cities, then Italy for the first time, and departs for Spain.  IN Book
Five he visits Spain, the travels to Sicily, Athens and Rhodes and reaches
Alexandria, Egypt.  In Book Six he sojours in Ethiopia, in Book Seven he
visits Rome, and in Book Eight he visits Greece, Ionia, including Smyrna
and Ephesus, and soon after he disappears.  Clearly a jet setter for his time.
Whereas Apollonius went to many of these places to learn from the wise
men reputed to live there and to oppose oppressive rulers twice in Rome –
Nero and then Domitian – Jesus claims to receive his wisdom directly
from God, and he does not challenge the rule of any earthly ruler.  A

JESUS † The Complete Biography
summary  of  his  attitude  towards  such  temporal  administration  is
epitomized in the famous saying, regarding taxation – “Render therefore
unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's; and unto God the things that
are God's.”91
Though virtually all Jewish men of the time – even of our time – are
married by the age of twenty, Jesus was not.  How can I assert that so
definitely, without any doubt?  For many reasons…let’s look at them one by
one.  Jesus did not marry because he was aware that at some time he was
going to engage in a lifestyle that would be hazardous to a family, deeply
hurtful to a spouse, and neglectful of children.  He knew that the outcome
of the teachings he would utter would be death.  That death in fact could
have come at any time after he began to teach.  He knew this from Jewish
history, from the stories of the Biblical prophets, several of whom were
killed because of what they said – Isaiah, Joel, Amos, Habbakuk, Ezekiel,
Zechariah  among  them.   He  knew  this  from  the  stories  told  of  the
Hassidim under Alexander Jannaeus, who, though a Jewish monarch,
hated and killed as many of the observant Jews as he could get his hands
on...rather like the Herodians of Jesus’ time.   He knew this from the
killing  of  those  they  considered  to  be  competitors  to  the  absolute
sovereignty and autocratic control of the Romans and their proxies over
Judaea, Galilee and Samaria, including Simon of Paraea and Ahtronges.
He knew that, like so many other men who have died martyrs, their
families would be slaughtered as well, for that was considered to be the
best way root out a problem – kill everyone.
Jesus didn’t marry because he knew that if he were to marry, and if he
were not to be martyred or if his family was spared, it would bring about
favoritism.  To be blunt, he didn’t want his blood relatives to be his
inheritors…he wanted his followers to be his family.  He made that very
clear when he said, in the Gospel of Matthew (19:29; also see Mark 10:29-
30, Luke 14:26): “And every one that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or
sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's
sake, shall receive an hundredfold, and shall inherit everlasting life.”  And
he made the point even more emphatically when he related it to his own
relations, in the Gospel of Matthew (12:47-50; also see Mark 3:33-35, Luke
8:21): “47 Then one said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren
stand without, desiring to speak with thee.  48 But he answered and said
unto him that told him, Who is my mother? and who are my brethren?
49 And he stretched forth his hand toward his disciples, and said, Behold
my mother and my brethren!  50For whosoever shall do the will of  my
Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother.”
What woman would want to marry a man with that attitude?  What son
would want his father to feel that way about him?  Jesus understood the
personal, proprietary, possessive love of family…and avoided it like the
plague.  If he had allowed that kind of love to assume its rightful priority in

JESUS † The Complete Biography
his life, it would have been impossible for him to have devoted himself
entirely to such a radical mission as he felt called to by God.
Jesus didn’t marry because his studies as a young man, and later his
itinerant preaching and healing as a mature adult did not allow him to
think of his own pleasure, of his own benefit.  They required his complete
dedication and nothing less.  Hence, in the Gospel of Matthew (8:20; and
Luke 9:58), he says:  “And Jesus saith unto him, The foxes have holes, and
the birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his
head.”  Nor could he pledge himself wholly to one woman, when the nature
of his ministry was to be available to all women who crossed his path, not
sexually, but emotionally, and in a most intimate manner.  This intimacy
would make virtually any wife feel anxious and jealous, lest she were to be
as saintly as he.  St. Francis and St. Claire figured out a way to remain in
love and still devoted entirely to God – it was with both of them opting out
of marriage, into lifelong celibacy, and a vigorous monastic life.  While it is
certainly possible that Jesus had feelings for a particular woman, but if
they were not purely spiritual, he knew he had to keep them to himself, a
secret in his own heart, known only to him and God; anything less would
wreck havoc on the community of his followers.  Anything else would
unleash  a  miasma  of  hurt  feelings,  misunderstandings,  hopeless
aspirations…a  thousand  times  worse  than  anything  an  adolescent  has
experienced.
And how do we know that Jesus didn’t marry?  Because we have not only
the canonical gospels but many non-canonical gospels as well, and none of
them say that he married.  A few scholars have recently argued that this or
that word in this or that gnostic gospel might be interpreted to mean that
Jesus had an exclusive relationship with Mary Magdalene, one that might
well have had an erotic dimension, and could have been formalized and
presumably sacralized in marriage.  Poppycock!  If that were the case, his
relationship would not have remained secret for two millennia…it would
have been the model for all Christian marriages.  Millons of Christians
celibates would not have embraced celibacy if matrimony was the pattern
of life embraced by Jesus and enjoined by him through his actions and not
just his words.  If he had been married, his spouse and his children would
have  assumed  positions  of  great  importance  in  the  early  Christian
community.  If they followed him in their holiness they would be considerd
saints and entreated in prayer every day by Christians seeking empathetic
intermediaries to approach the throne of God.  And finally, if he had been
married, and if he had children, for sure the Jewish memory would have
preserved traces of this lineage.  Jews keep track of their families, even
when they consider members of them to be heretics.
We pause for a moment to compare Jesus once more with Apollonius of
Tyana,  who,  following  his  master  Pythagoras,  and  exceeding  him  in
virtuous self-sacrifice and chastity, never had a lover and never married92:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
And as Pythagoras was commended for his saying that "a man should have
no  intercourse  except  with  his  own  wife,"  he  declared  that  this  was
intended by Pythagoras for others than himself, for that he was resolved
never to wed nor have any connexion whatever with women. In laying such
restraint  on  himself  he  surpassed  Sophocles,  who  only  said  that  in
reaching  old  age  he  had  escaped  from  a  mad  and  cruel  master;  but
Apollonius by dint of virtue and temperance never even in his youth was so
overcome. While still a mere stripling, in full enjoyment of his bodily vigor,
he mastered and gained control of the maddening passion.[the editor
notes: “Sexual abstinence is almost unheard-off in ancient philosophy.”]
And yet there are those who accuse him falsely of an addiction to venery,
alleging that he fell a victim of such sins and spent a whole year in their
indulgence among the Scythians, the facts being that he never once visited
Scythia nor was ever carried away by such passions. Not even [his rival]
Euphrates ever accused the sage of venery, though he traduced him
otherwise and composed lying treatises against him, as we shall show when
we come to speak of him below. And his quarrel with Apollonius was that
the latter rallied him for doing anything for money and tried to wean him of
his love of filthy lucre and of huckstering his wisdom. But these matters I
must defer to the times to which they belong.
What else do we know that Jesus did not do?  He didn’t sit around at home
and watch TV for the first few decades of his life.  He was active, and we
can surmise in what way that activity took shape.  He was clearly very
familiar with the Torah, the Ketuvim and Neviim, as he quotes from these
texts in his talks, and his quotes demonstrate a grasp of the inner message
of scripture and not just the literal outward meaning.  This means that he
would have been fluent in whatever languages were required of a talmid
Torah…while  he  sometimes  quotes  from  the  Septuagint,  there  are
instances when he seems to have quoted from a Syriac translation of the
Bible (see my essay on the Last Words of Jesus), and in a synagogue in
Galilee he read from the sefer Torah, which was probably in Hebrew.  I will
propose that he was fluent in Greek, Syriac, Hebrew and probably Aramaic
as well.  Since he held converse with Romans – a centurion in Galilee, and
Pontius Pilate in Jerusalem – he may well have been fluent in Latin as
well.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
There are lots of books that assert that Jesus spent his early manhood with
the Essenes, either adjacent to the Dead Sea, or in Jerusalem or some
other location.  That is possible, but by no means is it evident that he
adopted Essene views.  Hence, in order to become well informed about this
important group of Jewish believers of his day, he may well have lived with
Essenes and read their literature for a period.  That would make him
intellectually curious, not a devoted sectarian at odd with the status quo.
He certainly had ample opportunity to associate with Sadducees, scribes
and Pharisees, who are spoken of separately in the canonical gospels, and
are members of three distinct groups within the Jewish community of his
time.   It is unlikely, given his family’s poverty and his predilection for a
simple  and  unadorned  lifestyle,  that  he  would  have  been  closely
acquainted with Sadducees, but nevertheless they crossed paths, he was
familiar with their theological peculiarities and with their legal positions.
And he was critical of them.  His knowledge of the Pharisees (perisim) and
scribes (sofrim) was much deeper and presumably he had more contact
with them, both in Galilee and in Jerusalem.  We may suppose that he
spent a fair amount of his time as a young man in the synagogue, praying
and reading and studying Torah and haftorah, and in discussion with those
who enjoy discourse about religious teachings and law.  The gospels speak
of  him  addressing  multiple  congregations...in  fact  synagogues  are
mentioned  5 times in the Gospel of John, 9 times in the Gospel of
Matthew, 12 times in the Gospel of Mark, 17 times in the Gospel of Luke!
To cite just the Gospel of Matthew: “And Jesus went about all Galilee,
teaching in their synagogues” (4:23), “And Jesus went about all the cities
and villages, teaching in their  synagogues” (9:35), “And when he was
departed thence, he went into their synagogue” (12:9), “And when he was
come into his own country, he taught them in their  synagogue” (13:54).
The anti-Semitic and idiotic aversion of Christians to entering and praying
in synagogues is without foundation in the actions of Jesus.  On the
contrary, he probably spent most of his adult life in synagogues, because
that was where the sefarim were kept, and it was the Word of God that
particularly interested him.
From his disagreements with Sadducees, scribes and Pharisees on various
legal and doctrinal issues, and in particular his familiarity with those
practices that had no basis in the written Torah, but were either part of the
oral Torah or of the minhag (custom) of the community, we know that
Jesus knew the literature backwards and forwards.  While he is reported to
have been gifted with quite remarkable intuition, as in his divining that the
Samaritan woman he met at Yakov’s well had been married multiple times
and was currently with a man she was not married to (see John 4:18), this
does not suggest that Jesus had no knowledge acquired from reading, from
study, from the normal human process of learning.  He never claimed to
have omniscience, and often demonstrated his humanity, and even his

JESUS † The Complete Biography
vulnerability.  Consider, for example, his cry to God in the Gospel of
Matthew, not once but twice: “And he went a little farther, and fell on his
face, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass
from me: nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt” (26:39) and “He went
away again the second time, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if this cup
may not pass away from me, except I drink it, thy will be done.” (26:42)
Consider also his tears when he sees the suffering of his friends Mary and
Martha at the death of their brother Lazarus, in the Gospel of John (11:34-
36): “34 And said, Where have ye laid him? They said unto him, Lord, come
and see. 35 Jesus wept. 36 Then said the Jews, Behold how he loved him!”
For a final example, consider the tender humanity of this plea from the
cross, in the Gospel of Luke (23:34): “Father, forgive them; for they know
not what they do.”
Jesus was very comfortable with women and children.  We know that there
were several women followers who were closely associated with him, once
he began his real work.  It must be assumed, without evidence to the
contrary, that he had long association with women apart from his mother
and sisters prior to this.  In his relations with Mary and Martha there is no
trace of preference for either one, nor of formality or disapproval.  He
freely permits a woman with whom he has no family tie and whose touch
would presumably be taboo, considering the Jewish concerns about ritual
purity and the requirements of niddah, as well as the spiritual pollution
connected with fornication and adultery and prostitution – to anoint him
with expensive ointment, not with a brush but with her hair.  This is the
sort of intimacy one would imagine between happily married couples, not
between a profligate and a holy man.  The women who followed him on his
itinerant preaching, caring for him and his disciples –some of them were
married, others were not.  They prepared his body for burial as if they were
close  relations.   With  women  he  is  forgiving  and  direct.   And  he
emphasizes the love for God and love for one’s neighbor, and these words
are understood by women.  The intellectuals who quizzed him on his
teachings  may  compartmentalize  them  and  effectively  insultate  their
hearts  from  putting  the  Word  into  practice,  but  the  women  in  his
community,  like  women  everywhere,  were  impressed  with  action,  not
words.
Nor is he haughty or imperious with children.   In the Gospel of Mark
(9:36-37), Jesus speaks to his disciples in candid terms, after they have
asked him about their pecking order:  “36 And he took a child, and set him
in the midst of them: and when he had taken him in his arms, he said unto
them,  37 Whosoever  shall  receive  one  of  such  children  in  my  name,
receiveth me: and whosoever shall receive me, receiveth not me, but him
that sent me.”  Let me get that straight – whoever brings one child to
Jesus, he is accounted as a true believer, not just in Jesus but in God.  It is
through this action of spiritually adopting a child, one child, that one

JESUS † The Complete Biography
receives the kingdom of God.  In the Gospel of Matthew (19:13-15; 10:13-
15), we read: “13 Then were there brought unto him little children, that he
should put his hands on them, and pray: and the disciples rebuked them.
14 But Jesus said, Suffer little children, and forbid them not, to come unto
me: for of such is the kingdom of heaven. 15 And he laid his hands on them,
and departed thence.”  The Gospel of Luke (18:15-17) 15 And they brought
unto him also infants, that he would touch them: but when his disciples
saw it, they rebuked them.  16 But Jesus called them unto him, and said,
Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is
the kingdom of God. 17 Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive
the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein.”  Like
most adults, his disciples were going to shew the children away.   They had
important, adult business to attend to, and had no time for children.
Besides, the children that were drawn to Jesus were probably not the
offspring of the rich folks, but the riffraff off the street, the poor kids…
dirty, noisy, some of them diseased and deformed.  They wanted to protect
their master from these good for nothing kids…and themselves.  They
believed implicitly that association with their inferiors would rub off and
make them inferior.  They were out of touch with the reality Jesus sought
to inculcate.  Not only did he love children, but he said that anyone who
wanted entry into the kingdom of heaven, of God, the whole purpose of his
teaching, of his sacrifice of a normal life to preach and heal his fellow Jews,
anyone at all must become like little children, like infants…what are these
little ones like?  Pure in heart, honest, spontaneous.
He demonstrated to his disciples this principle in another way, in the
Gospel of Matthew (18:1-6), in another interaction with a child: “18 At the
same time came the disciples unto Jesus, saying, Who is the greatest in the
kingdom of heaven?  2 And Jesus called a little child unto him, and set him
in the midst of them,  3 And said, Verily I say unto you, Except ye be
converted,  and  become  as  little  children,  ye  shall  not  enter  into  the
kingdom of heaven.  4 Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this
little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven.  5 And whoso
shall receive one such little child in my name receiveth me.  6 But whoso
shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were better for
him  that  a  millstone  were  hanged  about  his  neck,  and  that  he  were
drowned in the depth of the sea.”  This is at the very heart of his teaching,
so radical as to upend all of human civilization.  There is no society, apart
from the society of some women perhaps, in which children have been
treated consistently as Jesus describes here.  A kindergarten, a nursery
school, a daycare center is where the kingdom of heaven begins and ends.
To humble oneself so as to be able to care for these little ones who are
entrusted to us, this is the most important task of all.  But Jesus does not
stop here.  The rest of his sermon reinforces this teaching with power and
without compromise: “7 Woe unto the world because of offences! for it
must needs be that offences come; but woe to that man by whom the
offence cometh!”  Surely he is speaking here of offences against children,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
for they are more egregious than any towards adults.  Later on in the same
sermon  he  will  speak  of  how  two  adults  can  reconcile  after  one  has
wronged the other – but if an adult wrongs a child, this is a much graver
offence, for the child is innocent.  “8 Wherefore if thy hand or thy foot
offend thee, cut them off, and cast them from thee: it is better for thee to
enter into life halt or maimed, rather than having two hands or two feet to
be cast into everlasting fire.”  This is graphic language to get across an
essential teaching – it would be better to cut off the hand that strikes or the
foot that kicks a child than go to hell for having hurt a child. “ 9 And if thine
eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee: it is better for thee to
enter into life with one eye, rather than having two eyes to be cast into hell
fire.”  Yes, if you look upon a child with lust, it is better to take out your eye
than to go to hell for continuing to have such thoughts.  For the sexual
exploitation of children did not begin yesterday – it was going on in Jesus’
time and he disapproved of it more than any other crime.  Offences against
a fellow adult could be forgiven, but towards children, only if drastic
measures were taken to prevent reoccurrence.  His use of this explicit
language here is not to shock or to allegorize – it is to state that there must
be  no  reoccurrence  of  such  acts  against  children.   There  must  be
restitution,  but  there  must  also  be  renunciation  and  repentence.
Otherwise, the offender is going to the fire, to be burnt as if he were a dry
tree without fruit. “10 Take heed that ye despise not one of these little ones;
for I say unto you, That in heaven their angels do always behold the face of
my Father which is in heaven.” The angels of the little children, they are
the perpetual consorts of God Himself.  The disciples wanted to know who
would have the honor of sitting at the right hand of Jesus in heaven (we’ll
come back to that), and here Jesus tells them that the little children are
reserved that place closest to God. “11 For the Son of man is come to save
that which was lost.  12 How think ye? if a man have an hundred sheep, and
one of them be gone astray, doth he not leave the ninety and nine, and
goeth into the mountains, and seeketh that which is gone astray?  13 And if
so be that he find it, verily I say unto you, he rejoiceth more of that sheep,
than of the ninety and nine which went not astray.  14 Even so it is not the
will of your Father which is in heaven, that one of these little ones should
perish.”  These little children are the sheep who are lost and will perish if
they are not brought to their true shepherd, who alone can protect them
from the snake, the wolf, and particularly the wolf disguised as a lamb.
Jesus makes it his highest priority to save children.  That translates into
making education, from birth, in the family and the synagogue and the
village and the town, the focus of Christian dedication.  Not education to
become famous and rich but education to become angels which “do always
behold the face of my Father which is in heaven.”
Jesus does not neglect men.  He must have spent a great deal of his time
with men during his adult years, because he is a very effective leader.  He
leads through his wisdom and through his actions.  Rich and powerful men

JESUS † The Complete Biography
do not like him, do not see his value.  That much we can be sure of.  He
obviously did not spend much time learning how to placate or manipulate
the rich and powerful.  We already know that his focus was on the very
opposite of the spectrum – the little children, the poor, the lost and the
diseased and possessed.  We have already considered the children, but in
many of his addresses he speaks of the poor. “Blessed are the  poor in
spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.” (Gospel of Matthew 5:3)
“Blessed be ye  poor: for yours is the kingdom of God.” (Gospel of Luke
6:20)  “The blind receive their sight, and the lame walk, the lepers are
cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the
gospel preached to them.” (Gospel of Matthew 11:5; see Gospel of Luke
4:18, 7:22)  “Then Jesus beholding him loved him, and said unto him, One
thing thou lackest: go thy way, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the
poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, take up the cross,
and follow me.” (Gospel of Mark 10:21; see Gospel of Matthew 19:21)
There are many other references to the love Jesus bore for the poor, and
his insistence that all those who sought to enter the kingdom of God
demonstrate their complete severance from the grip of materialism and
their generosity with those in need.  But we should also pay close attention
to the other signs of this kingdom of God: “The blind receive their sight,
and the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are
raised up” and the crazy folk are released from the possession of their
demons.  Mary Magadalene, freed from seven demons.  Legion, from one
hundred demons.  The wholescale healing and liberation is what his gospel
is all about.  While he didn’t have any followers and didn’t make known his
teachings until after his baptism by John, his cousin, he must have been
thinking these thoughts and living by these principles from his early years.
Towards his fellow men, working men like himself, the sons and fathers of
carpenters and masons, of fishermen and farmers, or shopkeepers and tax
collectors, Jesus is honest and affectionate, and he does not rebuff genuine
affection.  Think of the disciple who loved him, leaning on his breast at his
last supper.  This disciple did not know that his beloved teacher would
never sup with him again, that he would soon be torn from their midst,
crucified, and then resurrected.  But in that intimate moment of a shared
inner, Jesus does not stiffen and reject the love of his disciple.  He is not so
unsure of himself and of his manhood that he would reject the love of
another  man.   He  would  not  assume  that  such  love  was  sexual…for
sexuality is selfish if it is not dedicated to new life, and that new life are the
little children Jesus loved and sought to protect.  Jesus inspires the very
same love in his true disciples after his death as he did while he was alive.
That is one of the lessons of the resurrection.  He demonstrated that he is
deathless, and they demonstrated that their love for him was deathless.
That link is precisely what the Gospel of John teaches page after page.
“God so loved the world that He gave His only-begotten son…”  “I give you
a new commandment, that ye love one another as I have loved you…”  “If

JESUS † The Complete Biography
ye love me, ye must follow my commandments…”  And if this sounds fuzzy
and  comforting  but  not  operational,  consider  what  Jesus  says  about
leadership: “25 And he said unto them, The kings of the Gentiles exercise
lordship over them; and they that exercise authority upon them are called
benefactors. 26 But ye shall not be so: but he that is greatest among you, let
him be as the younger; and he that is chief, as he that doth serve. 27 For
whether is greater, he that sitteth at meat, or he that serveth? is not he that
sitteth at meat? but I am among you as he that serveth.” (Gospel of Luke
22:25-27)  “34 But they held their peace: for by the way they had disputed
among themselves, who should be the greatest.  35 And he sat down, and
called the twelve, and saith unto them, If any man desire to be first, the
same shall be last of all, and servant of all.”  This is difficult for the rich and
famous, the powerful and comfortable to understand.  But it is easy for
women and children to grasp, for they have no access to such material
advantages, they derived all of their sustenance from men, and so they
know that serving others is how to show one’s humanity and that this
humanity is the true sign of spiritual stature.
If the writers of the gospels are correct, in identifying Jesus as a savior
designated before the creation of the worlds, the incarnation of the Word
that created all things, and known as such to some from his conception and
many more from his birth, then we can be sure that his adulthood was full
of incidents that manifested these supernal gifts.  Why then is there no
record of these manifestations, from age twelve to thirty or fifty?  The
answer to this question is not that obscure…countless persons have lived
over  the  course  of  centuries  and  millennia,  and  which  of  them  are
described  in  the  chronicles,  the  epic  poetry,  the  other  traces  of  our
ancestors?  It is the kings and the prophets, the wars and the conversions…
the  children,  the  women,  the  poor,  the  diseased,  the  deformed,  the
possessed,  they  are  forgotten.   Their  names  are  mostly  missing  from
history.   The Israelites are a peculiar people, because they have chronicled
their prophets for many hundreds of years.  Most civilizations preserved
only fragments of the lives of their spiritual directors, but then wrote
volumes about their kings, and more of those volumes have been lost than
the many that has survived.  We don’t know what Jesus was doing as an
adult  because  nobody  wrote  down  that  story  or  the  document  that
preserved that story was lost or destroyed.  But Josephus wrote plenty
about the kings of his time, as did Suetonius and Caesar and Tacitus and
we could continue to drop the names of many other chroniclers, but to no
avail.  None of the contemporaries of Jesus bothered to write about any of
the ordinary people living in the land of Israel, except got for the authors of
the gospels.
We know quite a bit about Jesus from the first part of his life told here.  We
know  he  was  exceptionally  intelligent,  intuitive,  a  healer,  a  miracle
worker…poor, residing in Nazareth, probably working as a carpenter like

JESUS † The Complete Biography
his father, with his father.  Jewish, a student of scripture and halacha,
friend  to  men,  women,  children.   Living  a  largely  unremarkable  life
probably focused on the moment, even as children, women, the poor, the
diseased, the deformed, the possessed tend to be.  Building his character,
he tarried for the right moment to make his mark.
BOOK THE SECOND
Jesus joins his cousin John
Elizabeth was the cousin of Mary (Luke 1:36), so their two sons were
second  cousins.   They  do  not  seem  to  have  had  a  close  personal
relationship however.   Perhaps this was in part because Elizabeth and her
husband Zacharias raised their son John in Jerusalem, where Zacharias
was a priest [kohen] serving in the Temple [beit Knesset ha-gadol] (Luke
1:8-9), whereas Mary and her husband Joseph lived in Nazareth, in the
Galilee.  Nevertheless, Jesus and his family visited Jerusalem at least once
a year, for the festival of Pesach, as already discussed.  Surely during those
visits  they  stayed  with  Elizabeth  and  Zacharias  and  met  with  other
relatives as well.
Inasmuch  as  Jesus  accompanied  his  parents  on  an  annual  visit  to
Jerusalem and in particular the Temple during the feast of Passover, it may
be surmised that the two second cousins came into contact every year,
possibly into their adult years.   There are, however, no stories that have
survived the centuries about their relations during those visits.   It is likely
that Jesus would have been aware of the preaching of John, as he was
famous and infamous throughout Judaea.  In the Gospel of Matthew,
the preaching of John is pointed out as a fulfillment of prophecy from the
Book of Isaiah:
3:1 In those days came John the Baptist, preaching in the wilderness
of Judaea, 3:2 And saying, Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven is
at hand.  3:3 For this is he that was spoken of by the prophet
Esaias, saying, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare
ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.  3:4 And the same

JESUS † The Complete Biography
John had his raiment of camel's hair, and a leathern girdle about his
loins; and his meat was locusts and wild honey.  3:5 Then went out to
him  Jerusalem, and all  Judaea,  and  all  the  region  round about
Jordan, 3:6 And were baptized of him in Jordan, confessing their
sins.
Likewise in the Gospel of Mark:
1:2 As it is written in the prophets,  Behold, I send my messenger
before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.  1:3 The
voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the
Lord,  make  his  paths  straight.  1:4  John  did  baptize  in  the
wilderness, and preach the baptism of repentance for the remission
of sins.  1:5 And there went out unto him all the land of Judaea, and
they of Jerusalem, and were all baptized of him in the river of
Jordan, confessing their sins.
And also in the Gospel of Luke:
3:2 Annas and Caiaphas being the high priests, the word of God came unto
John the son of Zacharias in the wilderness.  3:3 And he came into all the
country  about  Jordan,  preaching  the  baptism  of  repentance  for  the
remission of sins; 3:4 As it is written in the book of the words of Esaias the
prophet, saying, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the
way of the Lord, make his paths straight.  3:5 Every valley shall be filled,
and every mountain and hill shall be brought low; and the crooked shall be
made straight, and the rough ways shall be made smooth; 3:6 And all flesh
shall see the salvation of God.
Finally, in the Gospel of John:
1:19 And this is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites
from Jerusalem to ask him,  Who art thou? 1:20 And he confessed, and
denied not; but confessed, I am not the Christ.  1:21 And they asked him,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
What then? Art thou Elias [Elijah]? And he saith, I am not. Art thou that
prophet? And he answered,  No.  1:22 Then said they unto him,  Who art
thou? that we may give an answer to them that sent us. What sayest thou of
thyself? 1:23 He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make
straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Esaias [Isaiah].
What all four of the canonical Gospels cite are from among these verses
from the Book of Isaiah:
40:3 The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the
way of the LORD, make straight in the desert a highway for our
God.  40:4 Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and
hill shall be made low: and the crooked shall be made straight, and
the rough places plain: 40:5 And the glory of the LORD shall be
revealed, and  all flesh shall see it together: for the mouth of the
LORD hath spoken it.
What precedes this quotation in the  Gospel of Mark is the following
citation from the Book of Malachi:
3:1 Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way
before me: and the LORD, whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to
his temple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom ye delight in:
behold, he shall come, saith the LORD of hosts.
This verse is also found cited elsewhere in the  Gospel of Luke, where
Jesus is speaking of John the Baptist and of the prophecy about him in the
Tanakh:
7:26 But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you, and
much more than a prophet.  7:27 This is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I
send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before
thee. 7:28 For I say unto you, Among those that are born of women there is
not a greater prophet than John the Baptist…
What was the substance of John’s sermons?  We find snippets of them in
the canonical Gospels, beginning with the Gospel of Matthew:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
3:7 But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees93 come to his
baptism, he said unto them, O generation of vipers, who hath warned you
to flee from the wrath to come? 3:8 Bring forth therefore fruits meet for
repentance: 3:9 And think not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham
to our father: for I say unto you, that God is able of these stones to raise
up children unto Abraham.  3:10 And now also the axe is laid unto the root
of the trees: therefore every tree which bringeth not forth good fruit is
hewn down, and cast into the fire.
The Gospel of Luke tells the same story, but in much greater detail:
3:7 Then said he to the multitude that came forth to be baptized of him, O
generation of vipers, who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come?
3:8 Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance, and begin not to say
within yourselves, We have Abraham to our father: for I say unto you, That
God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham.  3:9 And
now also the axe is laid unto the root of the trees: every tree therefore
which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire.
3:10 And the people asked him, saying,  What shall we do then? 3:11 He
answereth and saith unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impart to
him that hath none; and he that hath meat, let him do likewise.  3:12 Then
came also publicans to be baptized, and said unto him, Master, what shall
we do? 3:13 And he said unto them,  Exact no more than that which is
appointed you.  3:14 And the soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying,
And what shall we do? And he said unto them,  Do violence to no man,
neither accuse any falsely; and be content with your wages.
Why would John call the people of his time a “generation of vipers”, which
was reiterated by Jesus (Gospel of Matthew 12:34 and 23:33) in at least
two  of  his  discourses?  The  Greek  word  translated  in  the  KJV  as
“generation” implies illegitimacy, and the word translated as “vipers” most
like refers to the first serpent himself, the snake in the Garden of Eden.
Hence, the “children of Satan” is most likely what he had in mind.   The
First  Epistle  of  John  indeed  refers  to  “the  children  of  God”  and  the
“children of the devil” (3:10), and in the Gospel of Matthew (13:38), Jesus
calls them “the children of the kingdom” and the “children of the wicked
one”.  In the Gospel of John, Jesus answers his critics as follows:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
8:44 Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do.
He  was  a  murderer  from  the  beginning,  and  abode  not  in  the  truth,
because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his
own: for he is a liar, and the father of it.
The first time we hear of any contact between Jesus and John is in the
baptism of Jesus by John, which we may presume, from the account cited
above, to have occurred after the death of Joseph.   The Gospel of Mark
tells the story of the baptism of Jesus, and indicates that as he emerged
from the Jordan River “he saw the heavens opened, and the Spirit like a
dove descending upon him…And there came a voice from heaven”:
1:9 And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of
Galilee, and was baptized of John in Jordan.  1:10 And straightway coming
up out of the water, he saw the heavens opened, and the Spirit like a dove
descending upon him: 1:11 And there came a voice from heaven, saying,
Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.
The  Gospel of Matthew tells the same story, but elaborates…in this
version, John does not want to baptize Jesus because he discerns the
superior spiritual station of his second cousin:
3:13 Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jordan unto John, to be baptized
of him.  3:14 But John forbad him, saying, I have need to be baptized of
thee, and comest thou to me? 3:15 And Jesus answering said unto him,
Suffer it to be so now: for thus it becometh us to fulfil all righteousness.
Then he suffered him. 3:16 And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up
straightway out of the water: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him,
and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him:
3:17 And lo a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I
am well pleased.
The Gospel according to the Hebrews94 reports that Mary the mother
of Jesus and his brothers recommend that they go together to be baptized
by John, and Jesus’ reply reminds one of John’s reluctance to do so:
The mother of the Lord and his brothers said to him, “John the Baptist
baptizes for the forgiveness of sins; let us go and be baptized by him.”  But

JESUS † The Complete Biography
he said to them, “In what haveI sinned that I should go and be baptized by
him?  Unless, perhaps, what I have just said is a sin of ignorance.”
The  Gospel of Luke tells this same story, but without reporting the
presence of John at the baptism of Jesus:
3:21 Now when all the people were baptized, it came to pass, that Jesus also
being baptized, and praying, the heaven was opened, 3:22 And the Holy
Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him, and a voice came
from heaven, which said,  Thou art my beloved Son; in thee I am well
pleased.
While the references to the baptism of Jesus and his divine designation are
not  so  descriptive,  they  nevertheless  confirm that  the  event occurred.
First, the Gospel of John reports a conversation in which John tells two
of his disciples after the fact about these events:
1:19 And this is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites
from Jerusalem to ask him,  Who art thou? 1:20 And he confessed, and
denied not; but confessed, I am not the Christ.  1:21 And they asked him,
What then? Art thou Elias? And he saith, I am not. Art thou that prophet?
And he answered, No.  1:22 Then said they unto him, Who art thou? that we
may give an answer to them that sent us. What sayest thou of thyself? 1:23
He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the
way of the Lord, as said the prophet Esaias.  1:24 And they which were
sent were of the Pharisees. 1:25 And they asked him, and said unto him,
Why baptizest thou then, if thou be not that Christ, nor Elias, neither that
prophet? 1:26 John answered them, saying, I baptize with water: but there
standeth one among you, whom ye know not; 1:27 He it is, who coming after
me  is  preferred  before  me,  whose  shoe's  latchet  I  am  not  worthy  to
unloose. 1:28 These things were done in Bethabara beyond Jordan, where
John was baptizing. 1:29 The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him,
and saith,  Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the
world.  1:30 This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man which is
preferred before me: for he was before me.  1:31 And I knew him not: but
that he should be made manifest to Israel, therefore am I come baptizing
with water.  1:32 And John bare record, saying, I saw the Spirit descending

JESUS † The Complete Biography
from heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him.  1:33 And I knew him not:
but he that sent me to baptize with water, the same said unto me, Upon
whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same
is he which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost.  1:34 And I saw, and bare record
that this is the Son of God.
Later in the Gospel of John, some of his followers ask John the Baptist
about “he that was with thee beyond Jordan” who was by then baptizing
himself:
3:26 And they came unto John, and said unto him, Rabbi, he that was with
thee beyond Jordan, to whom thou barest witness, behold, the same
baptizeth, and all men come to him.
At least two of the non-canonical Gospels likewise relate stories of the
baptism of Jesus, first in two quotes from the Gospel of the Ebionites:
After the people were baptized, Jesus also came and was baptized by
John. And as he came up from the water, the heavens were opened, and he
saw the Holy Spirit descending in the form of a dove and entering into him.
And a voice from heaven said, “Thou art my beloved Son; with thee I am
well pleased.”  And again, “Today I have begotten thee.”  And immediately
a great light shone around the place; and John, seeing it, said to him, “Who
are you, Lord?”  And again, a voice from heaven said to him, “This is my
beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased.”   Then John, falling down
before him, said, “I beseech you, Lord, baptize me!”  But he forbade him,
saying, “Let it be so; for thus it is fitting to fulfil all things.””95
When Jesus went down to the water, fire was kindled in the Jordan; and
when he was rising from the water, the Holy Spirit came upon him like a
dove, as the apostles of our Christ have written.96
A  third  story  from  a  non-canonical  Gospel  is  fond  in  the  Gospel
according to the Hebrews:
When the Lord ascended from the water, the whole fount of the Holy
Spirit descended and rested upon him, and said to him, “My son, in all the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
prophets I was waiting for you, that you might come, and that I might rest in
you.  For you are my rest; and you are my firstborn son, who reigns
forever.”97
Another source attests to John baptizing, that is, Titus Flavius Josephus
Judaeus  (that  is  his  Roman  name,  assumed  upon  being  conferred
citizenship; his original name in Hebrew was Yosef ben Matityahu98), in
The Antiquities of the Jews, 18. 116–117:
…John, that was called the Baptist….was a good man, and commanded
the Jews to exercise virtue, both as to righteousness towards one another,
and piety towards God, and so to come to baptism; for that the washing
[with water] would be acceptable to him, if they made use of it, not in order
to the putting away [or the remission] of some sins [only], but for the
purification of the body; supposing still that the soul was thoroughly
purified beforehand by righteousness.99
The “voice from heaven” in these canonical and non-canonical Gospel
accounts has traditionally been said by Christian theologians to refer to
these verses from a psalm attributed to David:
2:6 Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion.  2:7 I will declare the
decree: the LORD hath said unto me, Thou art my Son; this day have I
begotten thee.
The identification of this psalm with the words spoken by the “voice of
heaven” is by virtue of two features…first of all, in the psalm God is
addressing David, and the name David means “beloved”; secondly, the
ministry of Jesus begins with his baptism by John, and in that sense he is
begotten in that moment.  As we will soon discover, at the core of the
message of Jesus was that every soul must be reborn in the spirit, and
hence it is fitting that his rebirth should occur at the moment of his
baptism,  perpetually  associating  baptism  with  spiritual  nascence.   It
appears, then, that it was the moment of his baptism that signaled the
commencement of the ministry of Jesus, and that this was experienced by
Jesus, and perhaps also by John and others, in the form of a vision and a
voice from heaven.
This private announcement of his Davidic messianic station is reported at
a later juncture in the life of Jesus in the Gospel of Matthew, when the
“voice out of the cloud” makes the same statement to Jesus in the company
of Peter, James and John the brother of James:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
17:1 And after six days Jesus taketh Peter, James, and John his brother,
and  bringeth  them  up  into  an  high  mountain  apart,  17:2  And  was
transfigured before them: and his face did shine as the sun, and his raiment
was white as the light.  17:3 And, behold, there appeared unto them Moses
and Elias talking with him.  17:4 Then answered Peter, and said unto Jesus,
Lord, it is good for us to be here: if thou wilt, let us make here three
tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.  17:5 While
he yet spake, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them: and behold a
voice out of the cloud, which said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well
pleased; hear ye him.
This latter visitation is recalled in the Second Epistle of Peter:
1:16 For we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made
known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were
eyewitnesses of his majesty.  1:17 For he received from God the Father
honour and glory, when there came such a voice to him from the excellent
glory, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.  1:18 And this voice
which came from heaven we heard, when we were with him in the holy
mount.
The canonical Gospels indicate that John was aware of the superlative
character of his successor.  In the  Gospel of Matthew quotes John as
designating his successor in superlative terms:
3:11 I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance. but he that cometh
after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear: he shall
baptize you with the Holy Ghost, and with fire: 3:12 Whose fan is in his hand,
and he will throughly purge his floor, and gather his wheat into the garner;
but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.
The Gospel of Mark quotes John likewise but more concisely:
1:7 And preached, saying, There cometh one mightier than I after me, the
latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose.  1:8 I
indeed have baptized you with water: but he shall baptize you with the
Holy Ghost.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The  Gospel  of  Luke quotes  John  in  somewhat  greater  detail  than
Matthew:
3:15 And as the people were in expectation, and all men mused in
their hearts of John, whether he were the Christ, or not; 3:16 John
answered, saying unto them all, I indeed baptize you with water; but
one mightier than I cometh, the latchet of whose shoes I am not
worthy to unloose: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and
with fire: 3:17 Whose fan is in his hand, and he will throughly purge his
floor, and will gather the wheat into his garner; but the chaff he will
burn with fire unquenchable.
The Gospel of John refers to the same distinction in virtually the same
words:
1:15 John bare witness of him, and cried, saying,  This was he of whom I
spake, He that cometh after me is preferred before me: for he was before
me.  1:16 And of his fulness have all we received, and grace for grace.  1:17
For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ.
1:18 No man hath seen God at any time, the only begotten Son, which is in
the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him.  1:19 And this is the record
of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him,
Who art thou? 1:20 And he confessed, and denied not; but confessed, I am
not the Christ.  1:21 And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elias [Elijah]?
And he saith, I am not. Art thou that prophet? And he answered, No.  1:22
Then said they unto him, Who art thou? that we may give an answer to them
that sent us. What sayest thou of thyself? 1:23 He said, I am the voice of
one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the way of the Lord, as said the
prophet Esaias [Isaiah].  1:24 And they which were sent were of the
Pharisees.1:25 And they asked him, and said unto him, Why baptizest thou
then, if thou be not that Christ, nor Elias [Elijah], neither that prophet?
1:26 John answered them, saying, I baptize with water: but there standeth
one among you, whom ye know not; 1:27 He it is, who coming after me is
preferred before me, whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose.  1:28

JESUS † The Complete Biography
These things were done in Bethabara beyond Jordan, where John was
baptizing.
Jesus commented on the rank and function of his cousin John, confirming
that he was the one designated by John as “coming after me” who “is
preferred before me, whose shoe’s latchet I am not worthy to unloose”, in
the Gospel of Matthew:
11:2 Now when John had heard in the prison the works of Christ, he sent
two of his disciples, 11:3 And said unto him, Art thou he that should come,
or do we look for another? 11:4 Jesus answered and said unto them, Go
and shew John again those things which ye do hear and see: 11:5 The blind
receive their sight, and the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf
hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached to
them.100 11:6 And blessed is he, whosoever shall not be offended in me.
The Gospel of Luke adds a few details to the account:
7:18 And the disciples of John shewed him of all these things. 7:19 And John
calling unto him two of his disciples sent them to Jesus, saying, Art thou he
that should come? or look we for another? 7:20 When the men were come
unto him, they said, John Baptist hath sent us unto thee, saying, Art thou
he that should come? or look we for another? 7:21 And in that same hour he
cured many of their infirmities and plagues, and of evil spirits; and unto
many that were blind he gave sight. 7:22 Then Jesus answering said unto
them, Go your way, and tell John what things ye have seen and heard; how
that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear,
the dead are raised, to the poor the gospel is preached. 7:23 And blessed
is he, whosoever shall not be offended in me.
The Gospel of Matthew continues, with Jesus’ words to the multitudes
after the emissaries of John had departed:
11:7  And  as  they  departed,  Jesus  began  to  say  unto  the  multitudes
concerning John,  What went ye out into the wilderness to see? A reed
shaken with the wind? 11:8 But what went ye out for to see? A man clothed
in soft raiment? behold, they that wear soft clothing are in kings' houses.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
11:9 But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? yea, I say unto you, and
more than a prophet.  11:10 For this is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I
send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before
thee.101  11:11 Verily I say unto you, Among them that are born of women there
hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist: notwithstanding he that is
least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he.102
Once again, the Gospel of Luke adds on a few details:
7:24 And when the messengers of John were departed, he began to
speak unto the people concerning John, What went ye out into the
wilderness for to see? A reed shaken with the wind? 7:25 But what
went ye out for to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, they
which are gorgeously apparelled, and live delicately, are in kings'
courts.  7:26 But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? Yea, I say
unto you, and much more than a prophet.  7:27 This is he, of whom it
is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall
prepare thy way before thee.  7:28 For I say unto you, Among those
that are born of women there is not a greater prophet than John
the Baptist: but he that is least in the kingdom of God is greater
than he.  7:29 And all the people that heard him, and the publicans,
justified God, being baptized with the baptism of John. 7:30 But the
Pharisees  and  lawyers  rejected  the  counsel  of  God  against
themselves, being not baptized of him.103
We find a brief articulation of the same principle in the non-canonical
Gospel of Thomas:
46) Jesus said, "Among those born of women, from Adam until John the
Baptist, there is no one so superior to John the Baptist that his eyes
should not be lowered (before him). Yet I have said whichever one of you
comes to be a child will be acquainted with the Kingdom and will become
superior to John."

JESUS † The Complete Biography
In the Acts of the Apostles, the apostle Paul likewise confirms that the
baptism of John was to make way for the appearance of his successor, that
is, the messiah Jesus:
19:3 And he said unto them, Unto what then were ye baptized? And they
said, Unto John's baptism.  19:4 Then said Paul, John verily baptized with
the baptism of repentance, saying unto the people, that they should
believe on him which should come after him, that is, on Christ Jesus.
The Gospel of Matthew continues with Jesus’ words to the multitudes:
11:12 And from the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of
heaven suffereth violence, and the violent take it by force.  11:13 For all the
prophets and the law prophesied until John.  11:14 And if ye will receive it,
this is Elias [Elijah], which was for to come. 104 11:15 He that hath ears to
hear, let him hear.
This time, there is a gap in the narrative of the Gospel of Luke, which is
partially filled by this verse:
16:16 The law and the prophets were until John: since that time the kingdom
of God is preached, and every man presseth into it.
The Gospel of Matthew continues with Jesus’ words to the multitudes:
11:16 But whereunto shall I liken this generation? It is like unto children
sitting in the markets, and calling unto their fellows, 11:17 And saying, We
have piped unto you, and ye have not danced; we have mourned unto you,
and ye have not lamented. 11:18 For John came neither eating nor drinking,
and they say, He hath a devil. 11:19 The Son of man came eating and
drinking, and they say, Behold a man gluttonous, and a winebibber, a
friend of publicans and sinners. But wisdom is justified of her children.
The passage is virtually identical as found in the Gospel of Luke:
7:31  And the  Lord  said, Whereunto  then  shall  I liken  the men  of  this
generation? and to what are they like? 7:32 They are like unto children
sitting in the marketplace, and calling one to another, and saying, We have

JESUS † The Complete Biography
piped unto you, and ye have not danced; we have mourned to you, and ye
have not wept. 7:33 For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor
drinking wine; and ye say, He hath a devil. 7:34 The Son of man is come
eating  and  drinking;  and  ye  say,  Behold  a  gluttonous  man,  and  a
winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners! 7:35 But wisdom is justified
of all her children.
The Gospel of Matthew continues with Jesus’ words to the multitudes:
11:20 Then began he to upbraid the cities wherein most of his mighty works
were done, because they repented not: 11:21 Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe
unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the mighty works, which were done in you, had
been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in
sackcloth and ashes. 11:22 But I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for
Tyre and Sidon at the day of judgment, than for you. 11:23 And thou,
Capernaum, which art exalted unto heaven, shalt be brought down to
hell:105 for if the mighty works, which have been done in thee, had been
done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day. 11:24 But I say unto
you, That it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of
judgment, than for thee.
Now the parallel verses in the  Gospel of Luke  are found in the tenth
chapter:
10:13 Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the mighty
works had been done in Tyre and Sidon, which have been done in you,
they had a great while ago repented, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.
10:14 But it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the judgment,
than for you. 10:15 And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted to heaven,
shalt be thrust down to hell.
Continuing with the Gospel of Matthew, now iterating a prayer uttered
by Jesus, followed by remarks to the multitudes:
11:25 At that time Jesus answered and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of
heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes. 11:26 Even so, Father: for so
it seemed good in thy sight. 11:27 All things are delivered unto me of my
Father: and no man knoweth the Son, but the Father; neither knoweth any
man the Father, save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal
him.
Now the parallel verses in the Gospel of Luke are also found in the tenth
chapter:
10:21 In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit, and said, I thank thee, O
Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hid these things
from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes:
even so, Father; for so it seemed good in thy sight. 10:22 All things
are delivered to me of my Father: and no man knoweth who the Son
is, but the Father; and who the Father is, but the Son, and he to
whom the Son will reveal him.106
In verses found only in the Gospel of Matthew, and with parallels in the
Hebrew Scriptures, Jesus addresses the multitudes:
11:28 Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give
you rest. 11:29 Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and
lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. 11:30 For my yoke is
easy, and my burden is light.107
In contrast to the behavior of John the Baptist, who is reported to have
lived in the wilderness, out in the open, to have subsisted on locusts and
honey,  with  camel’s  hair  and  a  belt  of  leather  as  his  raiment,  Jesus
characterizes himself as “a man gluttonous, and a winebibber, a friend of
publicans  and  sinners”.   He  goes  much  further  though,  and,  in
contradiction to the elaborate laws regulating kashrut108 (which foods may
be eaten), niddah109 (when a woman is untouchable) and ceremonial purity
(pertaining  to  the  kohanim110 and  the  leviim111,  the  priests  and  their
assistants in the Temple) set forth in the Torah and elaborated in the
Talmud, he says, as recorded in the Gospel of Mark:
7:18 And he saith unto them, Are ye so without understanding also? Do ye
not perceive, that whatsoever thing from without entereth into the man, it
cannot defile him; 7:19 Because it entereth not into his heart, but into the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
belly, and goeth out into the draught, purging all meats? 7:20 And he said,
That which cometh out of the man, that defileth the man. 7:21 For from
within,  out  of  the  heart  of  men,  proceed  evil  thoughts,  adulteries,
fornications,  murders,  7:22  Thefts,  covetousness,  wickedness,  deceit,
lasciviousness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness: 7:23 All these evil
things come from within, and defile the man.
In  contrast  to  this  teaching  is  the  practice  and  instruction  of  his
contemporary, Apollonius of Tyana, who was meticulous about his diet and
about his dietary prescriptions for others112:
Notwithstanding he [Apollonius of Tyana] did not cease to love Euxenus,
nay, he persuaded his father to present him with a villa outside the town,
where there were tender groves and fountains, and he said to him: "Now
you live there your own life, but I will live that of Pythagoras."113
[§8] Now Euxenus realized that he was attached to a lofty ideal, and asked
him at what point he would begin it. Apollonius answered: "At the point at
which physicians begin, for they, by purging the bowels of their patients
prevent some from being ill at all, and heal others."
And having said this he declined to live upon a flesh diet, on the ground
that it was unclean, and also that it made the mind gross; so he partook
only of dried fruits and vegetables, for he said that all the fruits of the
earth are clean. And of wine he said that it was a clean drink because it is
yielded to men by so well-domesticated a plant as the vine; but he declared
that it endangered the mental balance and system and darkened, as with
mud, the ether which is in the soul.
After then having thus purged his interior, he took to walking without
shoes by way of adornment and clad himself in linen raiment, declining to
wear any animal product; and he let his hair grow long and lived in the
Temple.  And  the  people  round  about  the  Temple  were  struck  with
admiration for him, and the god Asclepius114 one day said to the priest that
he was delighted to have Apollonius as witness of his cures of the sick; and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
such was his reputation that the Cilicians115 themselves and the people all
around flocked to Aegae116 to visit him. Hence the Cilician proverb: "Whither
runnest thou? Is it to see the stripling?"
Such was the saying that arose about him, and it gained the distinction of
becoming a proverb.
[§9] Now it is well that I should not pass over what happened in the Temple,
while relating the life of a man who was held in esteem even by the gods.
For an Assyrian117 stripling came to Asclepius, and though he was sick, yet
he lived the life of luxury, and being continually drunk, I will not say he
lived, rather he was ever dying. He suffered then from dropsy, and finding
his pleasure in drunkenness took no care to dry up his malady. On this
account then Asclepius took no care of him, and did not visit him even in a
dream118.
The youth grumbled at this, and thereupon the god, standing over him,
said, "If you were to consult Apollonius you would be easier."
He therefore went to Apollonius, and said: "What is there in your wisdom
that I can profit by? for Asclepius bids me consult you."
And he replied: "I can advise you of what, under the circumstances, will be
most valuable to you; for I suppose you want to get well."
"Yes, by Zeus," answered the other, "I want the health which Asclepius
promises, but never gives."
"Hush," said the other, "for he gives to those who desire it, but you do
things that irritate and aggravate your disease, for you give yourself up to
luxury, and you accumulate delicate viands upon your water-logged and
worn-out stomach, and as it were, choke water with a flood of mud."
This was a clearer response, in my opinion, than Heraclitus119, in his wisdom,
gave. For he said when he was visited by this affection that what he needed
was  someone  to  substitute  a  drought  for  a  rainy  weather,  a  very

JESUS † The Complete Biography
unintelligible remark, it appears to me, and by no means clear; but the sage
restored the youth to health by a clear interpretation of the wise saw.
[§10] One day he saw a flood of blood upon the altar, and there were
victims laid out upon it, Egyptian bulls that had been sacrificed and great
hogs, and some of them were being flayed and others were being cut up;
and two gold vases had been dedicated set with jewels, the rarest and most
beautiful that India can provide. So he went to the priest and said: "What is
all this; for someone is making a very handsome gift to the god?"
And the priest replied: "You may rather be surprised at a man's offering all
this without having first put up a prayer in our fane, and without having
stayed with us as long as other people do, and without having gained his
health from the god, and without obtaining all the things he came to ask
for. For he appears to have come only yesterday, yet he is sacrificing on
this lavish scale. And he declares that he will sacrifice more victims, and
dedicate more gifts, if Asclepius will hearken to him. And he is one of the
richest men in existence; at any rate he owns in Cilicia an estate bigger than
all the Cilicians together possess. And he is supplicating the god to restore
to him one of his eyes that has fallen out."
But Apollonius fixed his eyes upon the ground, as he was accustomed to
do in later life, and asked: "What is his name?"
And when he heard it, he said: "It seems to me, O Priest, that we ought not
to welcome this fellow in the Temple: for he is some ruffian who has come
here, and that he is afflicted in this way is due to some sinister reason: nay,
his very conduct in sacrificing on such a magnificent scale before he has
gained anything from the god is not that of a genuine votary, but rather of
a man who is begging himself off for the penalty of some horrible and cruel
deed."
This was what Apollonius said: and Asclepius appeared to the priest by
night, and said: "Send away so and so at once with all his possessions, and
let him keep them, for he deserves to lose the other eye as well."

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The priest accordingly made inquiries about the Cilician and learned that
his wife by a former marriage borne a daughter, and he had fallen in love
with the maiden and had seduced her, and was living with her in open sin.
For the mother had surprised the two in bed, and had put out both her
eyes and one of his by stabbing them with her brooch-pin.
Jesus goes into the desert
Jesus rises up from his baptism, from the purification of the mikvah and
the next scene according to the synoptic Gospels, Matthew, Mark and
Luke, is his solo sojourn in the wilderness:
4:1 Then was Jesus led up of the spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of
the devil.  4:2 And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was
afterward an hungred.
1:12 And immediately the spirit driveth him into the wilderness.  1:13 And he
was there in the wilderness forty days, tempted of Satan; and was with the
wild beasts; and the angels ministered unto him.
4:1 And Jesus being full of the Holy Ghost returned from Jordan, and was
led by the Spirit into the wilderness,  4:2 Being forty days tempted of the
devil. And in those days he did eat nothing: and when they were ended, he
afterward hungered.
The story of his sojourn in the wilderness reminds the reader immediately
of the 40 years Moses and the Israelites spent wandering in the wilderness
of Sinai, according to the principle of scripture, stated in The  Book of
Numbers:
14:34 After the number of the days in which ye searched the land, even
forty days, each day for a year, shall ye bear your iniquities, even forty
years, and ye shall know my breach of promise.
It is also reminiscent of the story of Noah, and the rain that endured 40
days and 40 nights (Genesis 7:4, 12; 8:6).  Noah was set apart from the
world of humanity, and took only what was needed with him.  This setting
apart was the prelude to his re-establishment of God’s covenant on earth.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Above all this sojourn recalls the story of Elijah in the wilderness, as told in
the Third Book of Kings:
19:4 But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness, and came and
sat down under a juniper tree: and he requested for himself that he might
die; and said, It is enough; now, O LORD, take away my life; for I am not
better than my fathers.  19:5 And as he lay and slept under a juniper tree,
behold, then an angel touched him, and said unto him, Arise and eat.  19:6
And he looked, and, behold, there was a cake baken on the coals, and a
cruse of water at his head. And he did eat and drink, and laid him down
again.  19:7 And the angel of the LORD came again the second time, and
touched him, and said, Arise and eat; because the journey is too great for
thee.  19:8 And he arose, and did eat and drink, and went in the strength of
that meat forty days and forty nights unto Horeb the mount of God.  19:9
And he came thither unto a cave, and lodged there; and, behold, the word
of the LORD came to him, and he said unto him, What doest thou here,
Elijah? 19:10 And he said, I have been very jealous for the LORD God of
hosts: for the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, thrown down
thine altars, and slain thy prophets with the sword; and I, even I only, am
left; and they seek my life, to take it away.  19:11 And he said, Go forth, and
stand upon the mount before the LORD. And, behold, the LORD passed
by, and a great and strong wind rent the mountains, and brake in pieces
the rocks before the LORD; but the LORD was not in the wind: and after
the wind an earthquake; but the LORD was not in the earthquake: 19:12
And after the earthquake a fire; but the LORD was not in the fire: and
after the fire a still small voice.  19:13 And it was so, when Elijah heard it, that
he wrapped his face in his mantle, and went out, and stood in the entering
in of the cave. And, behold, there came a voice unto him, and said, What
doest thou here, Elijah? 19:14 And he said, I have been very jealous for the
LORD God of hosts: because the children of Israel have forsaken thy
covenant, thrown down thine altars, and slain thy prophets with the sword;
and I, even I only, am left; and they seek my life, to take it away.  19:15 And
the LORD said unto him, Go, return on thy way to the wilderness of
Damascus: and when thou comest, anoint Hazael to be king over Syria:
19:16 And Jehu the son of Nimshi shalt thou anoint to be king over Israel:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and Elisha the son of Shaphat of Abelmeholah shalt thou anoint to be
prophet in thy room.  19:17 And it shall come to pass, that him that escapeth
the sword of Hazael shall Jehu slay: and him that escapeth from the sword
of Jehu shall Elisha slay.  19:18 Yet I have left me seven thousand in Israel,
all the knees which have not bowed unto Baal, and every mouth which hath
not kissed him.
Moses had come to the wilderness of Judaea, to the Jordan River, and he
did not cross over.  Whether with the memory of the 40 years of Moses or
the 40 days and nights of Elijah, Jesus set forth into the wilderness, the
dwelling place of the outcasts of society and the wildbeasts and evil spirits
eschewed by the faithful.  It  was in the wilderness that he would be
fortified, prepared for the ministry that he was thenceforth to pursue.  It
was in the wilderness that his first dialogue occurs, between the self and
the soul, between satan and the angel of the Lord.
The Gospel of Matthew tells the story of this dialogue, which recalls the
dialogues in the Book of Job:
4:3 And when the tempter came to him, he said, If thou be the Son of God,
command that these stones be made bread.  4:4 But he answered and
said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that
proceedeth out of the mouth of God.  4:5 Then the devil taketh him up
into the holy city, and setteth him on a pinnacle of the temple, 4:6 And
saith unto him,  If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down: for it is
written, He shall give his angels charge concerning thee: and in their hands
they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone.
4:7 Jesus said unto him, It is written again, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord
thy  God.  4:8 Again,  the  devil  taketh  him  up  into  an  exceeding high
mountain, and sheweth him all the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of
them; 4:9 And saith unto him, All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall
down and worship me.  4:10 Then saith Jesus unto him, Get thee hence,
Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only
shalt thou serve.  4:11 Then the devil leaveth him, and, behold, angels came
and ministered unto him.
The Gospel of Luke tells the story in virtually identical terms:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
4:3 And the devil said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, command this
stone that it be made bread.  4:4 And Jesus answered him, saying, It is
written, That man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God.
4:5 And the devil, taking him up into an high mountain, shewed unto him all
the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time.  4:6 And the devil said unto
him,  All this power will I give thee, and the glory of them: for that is
delivered unto me; and to whomsoever I will I give it.  4:7 If thou therefore
wilt worship me, all shall be thine.  4:8 And Jesus answered and said unto
him, Get thee behind me, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the
Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve.  4:9 And he brought him to
Jerusalem, and set him on a pinnacle of the temple, and said unto him, If
thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down from hence: 4:10 For it is
written, He shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee: 4:11 And in
their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot
against a stone.  4:12 And Jesus answering said unto him, It is said, Thou
shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.  4:13 And when the devil had ended all
the temptation, he departed from him for a season.
Fragments of this story are also found in the Gospel according to the
Hebrews, cited by Jerome and by Origen:
The Jewish copy has not “to the holy city”, but “to Jerusalem”.120
Then my mother, the Holy Spirit, took me by oe of my hairs, and carried me
to Mount Tabor.121
What is the purpose of this story?  Who could have witnessed it?   The only
witness to this story was Jesus.  It was Jesus who sojourned alone in the
wilderness.  Even as the story of his baptism was, according to two of the
accounts,  witnessed  in  its  spiritual  dimensions  by  Jesus  alone,  and,
according to the third account by John as well as Jesus, and not by anyone
else, so also this dialogue between the devil and the Son of God was his
experience alone.  And in this story are found the hidden words wherein
his  teachings  are  enshrined.   In  dialogue  form  they  constitute  the
contrasted  teachings  of  the  world  and  its  powers  and  principalities,
represented here by the devil, with the teachings of the divine prophets
and angels of the Lord.  The one side sees only the material dimension, and
calls upon the Son of God to exercise physical powers to satisfy his physical
hunger, to do magic in order to demonstrate his control over the elements

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and to satisfy his appetites.  He answers that with the teaching he would
reiterate throughout his ministry, that “man shall not live by bread alone,
but by every word of God”.   This is a direct quote from the  Book of
Devarim (Deuteronomy), wherein Moses is speaking to the Israelites
near Horeb (5:2), the very Horeb where Elijah dwelt for 40 days:
8:3 And he humbled thee, and suffered thee to hunger, and fed thee with
manna, which thou knewest not, neither did thy fathers know; that he might
make thee know that man doth not live by bread only, but by every word
that proceedeth out of the mouth of the LORD doth man live.
The second temptation reported above in the  Gospel of Matthew and
the third temptation in the  Gospel of Luke, is not to rely upon the
miraculous intervention of God, and to act as if one is invulnerable, rather
than in need of His help.  It is to believe oneself to be physically impervious
to damage or death, and to value such physical prowess as was related of
the heroes and gods of many nations.
While there is indeed a promise found in the Psalms that God:
91:9 Because thou hast made the LORD, which is my refuge, even the most
High, thy habitation; 91:10 There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any
plague come nigh thy dwelling. 91:11 For he shall give his angels charge over
thee, to keep thee in all thy ways. 91:12 They shall bear thee up in their
hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone.
Notwithstanding, Jesus is firm in noting that it is for God to test His
servants  and  not the  converse,  as  he  invoked  by  citing  the  Book  of
Deuteronomy/Devarim:
6:16 Ye shall not tempt the LORD your God, as ye tempted him in Massah.
The third temptation in the Gospel of Matthew and the second in the
Gospel of Luke is to possess everything, to have all the kingdoms of the
earth, and in exchange to worship the opponent of God, to worship what
Jesus would later call Mammon, when he taught, “Ye cannot serve God
and mammon” (Matthew 6:24; Luke 16:13).  To this Jesus replies with
what  classical  Judaism  calls  the  Shemah122,  “Shema  Yisrael,  adonai
eloheinu, adonai echad.”  (Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is
one) is immediately followed by this commandment (and its reiterations),
which is to be found in the Book of Deuteronomy/Devarim:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
6:5 And thou shalt love the LORD thy God with all thine heart, and with all
thy soul, and with all thy might.
6:13 Thou shalt fear the LORD thy God, and serve him, and shalt swear by
his name.
11:1 Therefore thou shalt love the LORD thy God, and keep his charge, and
his statutes, and his judgments, and his commandments, alway.
As Jesus would later explain, as recorded in the Gospels of Matthew,
Mark and Luke, this was the first and greatest commandment:
22:37 Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy
heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.  22:38 This is the first and
great commandment.
12:29 And Jesus answered him, The first of all the commandments is, Hear,
O Israel; The Lord our God is one Lord: 12:30 And thou shalt love the Lord
thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and
with all thy strength: this is the first commandment.
10:27 And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy
heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind;
The second commandment cited by Jesus is also referred to in the Book
of Deuteronomy/Devarim:
5:20 Neither shalt thou bear false witness against thy neighbour.  5:21
Neither shalt thou desire thy neighbour's wife, neither shalt thou covet thy
neighbour's house, his field, or his manservant, or his maidservant, his ox,
or his ass, or any thing that is thy neighbour's.
19:14 Thou shalt not remove thy neighbour's landmark, which they of old
time have set in thine inheritance, which thou shalt inherit in the land that
the LORD thy God giveth thee to possess it.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
23:24 When thou comest into thy neighbour's vineyard, then thou mayest
eat grapes thy fill at thine own pleasure; but thou shalt not put any in thy
vessel.  23:25 When thou comest into the standing corn of thy neighbour,
then thou mayest pluck the ears with thine hand; but thou shalt not move a
sickle unto thy neighbour's standing corn.
10:19 Love ye therefore the stranger: for ye were strangers in the land of
Egypt.
It is also found in the Book of Leviticus/Vayikra:
19:17 Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thine heart: thou shalt in any wise
rebuke thy neighbour, and not suffer sin upon him. 19:18 Thou shalt not
avenge, nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people, but thou
shalt love thy neighbour as thyself: I am the LORD.
Jesus cites this second commandment along with the first in all three of
the synoptic gospels, Matthew, Mark and Luke:
22:39 And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as
thyself.
12:31 And the second is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as
thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these.
10:27 And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy
heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind;
and thy neighbour as thyself.
As in the Book of Job, where Satan dialogues with the Lord, and then the
Lord dialogues with Job, and Job with his friends, the dialogue of Satan
with Jesus is a story that contrasts evil and good, a morality play.  Jesus
must have related this dialogue many times to his followers, each time
aligning it with the powerful symbolism of a sojourn in the wilderness for
40 days and 40 nights.  Like the confrontations of Elijah with the prophets
of Baal, Jesus meets every challenge from the devil with truth.  He is
inflexible, unwavering, unswayed.  These are the qualities he encouraged
in his true followers. Only such determination could establish the kingdom
of God, on earth, as it is in heaven.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
After these temptations are completed, it is written in the Gospels of
Matthew and Mark:
4:11 Then the devil leaveth him, and, behold, angels came and ministered
unto him.
1:13 And he was there in the wilderness forty days, tempted of Satan; and
was with the wild beasts; and the angels ministered unto him.
In the  Gospel of John, Jesus tells Nathaniel that he will witness the
ministration of the angels:
1:49 Nathanael answered and saith unto him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of
God; thou art the King of Israel.  1:50 Jesus answered and said unto him,
Because I said unto thee, I saw thee under the fig tree, believest thou? thou
shalt see greater things than these. 1:51 And he saith unto him, Verily, verily,
I say unto you, Hereafter ye shall see heaven open, and the angels of God
ascending and descending upon the Son of man.
As there is no account in the Gospels or elsewhere of Nathaniel, or anyone
else witnessing “the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son
of man” in the person of Jesus, this may be a reference to the prophetic
words in the  Gospel of Matthew which seem to refer to His return
appearance:
13:41 The Son of man shall send forth his angels…
16:27 For the Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his
angels…
24:30 And then shall appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven: and
then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of
man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.  24:31 And
he shall send his angels…
25:31 When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels
with him…

JESUS † The Complete Biography
26:53 Thinkest thou that I cannot now pray to my Father, and he shall
presently give me more than twelve legions of angels?
There are also two passages in the Gospel of Mark that refer to the same
phenomenon:
8:38 Whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of me and of my words in this
adulterous and sinful generation; of him also shall the Son of man be
ashamed, when he cometh in the glory of his Father with the holy angels.
13:26 And then shall they see the Son of man coming in the clouds with
great power and glory. 13:27 And then shall he send his angels…
It is noteworthy that Jesus makes this assurance  to  Nathaniel not in
reference to some distant age, but to his own time, his own experience.
Disciples of John become disciples of Jesus
The chronology of events in the Gospels is not consistent from one to the
other, and there are gaps in every account.  The Gospel of John does not
describe the baptism of Jesus by John, but it relates his telling his disciples
about that baptism…this could only have occurred after the baptism.  I
suggest this took place after Jesus returned from the Judaean desert.
In the Gospel of John, it is recorded that John was preaching one day in
Judaea:
1:19 And this is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites
from Jerusalem to ask him,  Who art thou? 1:20 And he confessed, and
denied not; but confessed, I am not the Christ. 1:21 And they asked him,
What then? Art thou Elias [Elijah]? And he saith, I am not. Art thou that
prophet [Deut 18:15,18]?  And he answered,  No. 1:22 Then said they unto
him, Who art thou? that we may give an answer to them that sent us. What
sayest thou of thyself? 1:23 He said,  I am the voice of one crying in the
wilderness, Make straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Esaias
[Elijah]. 1:24 And they which were sent were of the Pharisees. 1:25 And
they asked him, and said unto him, Why baptizest thou then, if thou be not
that Christ [Mashiach ben David], nor Elias [Elijah], neither that prophet
[Deut 18:15,18]? 1:26 John answered them, saying, I baptize with water: but

JESUS † The Complete Biography
there standeth one among you, whom ye know not; 1:27 He it is, who coming
after me is preferred before me, whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to
unloose.  1:28 These things were done in Bethabara beyond Jordan, where
John was baptizing.
The  Gospel of  John continues the  story,  and  John tells  two  of his
followers that Jesus is the one to which his prophecies refer, and the
circumstances of his baptism:
1:29 The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold the
Lamb of God123, which taketh away the sin of the world. 1:30 This is he of
whom I said, After me cometh a man which is preferred before me: for he
was before me. 1:31 And I knew him not: but that he should be made
manifest to Israel, therefore am I come baptizing with water. 1:32 And John
bare record, saying, I saw the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove,
and it abode upon him. 1:33 And I knew him not: but he that sent me to
baptize with water, the same said unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see the
Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same is he which baptizeth
with the Holy Ghost. 1:34 And I saw, and bare record that this is the Son of
God.
Whereas the other Gospels tell the story of the baptism of Jesus as it was
happening, John tells this story to an unidentified company of his disciples
*after* it happens.  Hence, he could have told them about it well after the
fact.  The Gospel of John continues:
1:35 Again the next day after John stood, and two of his disciples; 1:36 And
looking upon Jesus as he walked, he saith, Behold the Lamb of God! 1:37
And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus.
The second time that John designates Jesus as “the Lamb of God” to a
group of his disciples, they do what he evidently wanted them to do—they
followed Jesus.  The Gospel of John goes on to say:
1:38 Then Jesus turned, and saw them following, and saith unto them, What
seek ye? They said unto him, Rabbi, (which is to say, being interpreted,
Master,) where dwellest thou? 1:39 He saith unto them,  Come and see.
They came and saw where he dwelt, and abode with him that day: for it was

JESUS † The Complete Biography
about the tenth hour. 1:40 One of the two which heard John speak, and
followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. 1:41 He first findeth his
own  brother  Simon,  and  saith  unto  him,  We  have  found  the  Messias
[Mashiach ben David], which is, being interpreted, the Christ. 1:42 And he
brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld him, he said, Thou art Simon
[Shim’on] the son of Jona [Yona]: thou shalt be called Cephas [Greek for
Rock], which is by interpretation, A stone.
Jesus sojourns in the Galilee
The Gospel of John, as pointed out earlier, depicts Andrew as a disciple of
John  who  seeks  out  Jesus  when  John  calls  him  “the  Lamb  of  God”.
Andrew becomes convinced that Jesus is the Messiah and so he finds his
brother Peter and brings him to meet the Messiah.  The Gospel of John
does not say that Andrew and Peter began from that moment to follow
Jesus, nor that Jesus invited them to follow him.  It states that this was
their first meeting with him.  If this were the case, the *subsequent*
encounter of Jesus with Andrew and Peter on the shore of the Sea of
Galilee and their immediate abandonment of their vocation in order to
follow him makes much more sense.    After his first meeting with Andrew
and Simon Peter, the Gospel of John records:
1:43 The day following Jesus would go forth into Galilee, and findeth Philip,
and saith unto him, Follow me. 1:44 Now Philip was of Bethsaida, the city of
Andrew and Peter.
The Gospel of John does not record the election of Andrew and Peter…it
states that they came to him, not that he summoned them to follow him.
The Gospel of Matthew describes his summons to the two brothers:
4:18 And Jesus, walking by the sea of Galilee, saw two brethren, Simon
called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea: for they
were fishers.  4:19 And he saith unto them, Follow me, and I will make you
fishers of men.  4:20 And they straightway left their nets, and followed him.
4:21 And going on from thence, he saw other two brethren, James the son
of Zebedee, and John his brother, in a ship with Zebedee their father,
mending their nets; and he called them.  4:22 And they immediately left the
ship and their father, and followed him.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The Gospel of Mark tells the same story in its own fashion:
1:16 Now as he walked by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew his
brother casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers.  1:17 And Jesus
said unto them, Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of
men.  1:18 And straightway they forsook their nets, and followed him.  1:19
And when he had gone a little farther thence, he saw James the son of
Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were in the ship mending their
nets.  1:20 And straightway he called them: and they left their father
Zebedee in the ship with the hired servants, and went after him.
The Gospel of Luke does not refer to the election of the disciples, but it
does name the disciples:
6:13 And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples: and of them he
chose twelve, whom also he named apostles; 6:14 Simon, (whom he also
named  Peter,)  and  Andrew  his  brother,  James  and  John,  Philip  and
Bartholomew, 6:15 Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus, and
Simon called Zelotes, 6:16 And Judas the brother of James, and Judas
Iscariot, which also was the traitor.
Likewise, the Gospel of the Ebionites124 refers to the election of these
disciples:
Coming to Capernaum, he entered the house of Simon, who is called Peter,
and said, “As I passed by the lake of Tiberias, I chose John and James,
sons of Zebedee, and Simon, Andrew, Thaddaeus, Simon the Zealot,
Judas Iscariot; and you, Matthew, sitting at the tax office, I called and you
followed me.  You, therefore, I desire to be twelve apostles, as a witness to
Israel.”
While the Gospels of Matthew and Mark tell only the of the election of
Andrew and Simon Peter followed by that of James and John, the Gospel
of John refers to the election of Philip, and after him Nathanael:
1:43 The day following Jesus would go forth into Galilee, and findeth Philip,
and saith unto him, Follow me. 1:44 Now Philip was of Bethsaida, the city of
Andrew and Peter. 1:45 Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith unto him,  We

JESUS † The Complete Biography
have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, did write,
Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. 1:46 And Nathanael said unto him,
Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth? Philip saith unto him,
Come and see. 1:47 Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and saith of him,
Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile! 1:48 Nathanael saith unto
him, Whence knowest thou me? Jesus answered and said unto him, Before
that Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee. 1:49
Nathanael answered and saith unto him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God;
thou  art  the  King  of  Israel. 1:50  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him,
Because I said unto thee, I saw thee under the fig tree, believest thou? thou
shalt see greater things than these. 1:51 And he saith unto him, Verily, verily,
I say unto you, Hereafter ye shall see heaven open, and the angels of God
ascending and descending upon the Son of man.
While Philip is mentioned as one of the twelve disciples in the synoptic
Gospels (Matthew 10:3; Mark 3:18; Luke 6:14), this is the only reference in
any of them to him.  Nathanael is only referred to in the Gospel of John,
where he is counted among the disciples (John 21:1-2).  The Gospel of
John continues with another story not found in the synoptic Gospels:
2:1 And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee; and the
mother  of  Jesus  was  there:  2:2  And  both  Jesus  was  called,  and  his
disciples, to the marriage. 2:3 And when they wanted wine, the mother of
Jesus saith unto him, They have no wine. 2:4 Jesus saith unto her, Woman,
what have I to do with thee? mine hour is not yet come. 2:5 His mother saith
unto the servants, Whatsoever he saith unto you, do it. 2:6 And there were
set there six waterpots of stone, after the manner of the purifying of the
Jews, containing two or three firkins apiece. 2:7 Jesus saith unto them, Fill
the waterpots with water. And they filled them up to the brim. 2:8 And he
saith unto them, Draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the feast.
And they bare it. 2:9 When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that
was made wine, and knew not whence it was: (but the servants which drew
the water knew;) the governor of the feast called the bridegroom, 2:10 And
saith unto him, Every man at the beginning doth set forth good wine; and
when men have well drunk, then that which is worse: but thou hast kept the
good wine until now. 2:11 This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Galilee, and manifested forth his glory; and his disciples believed on him.
2:12 After this he went down to Capernaum, he, and his mother, and his
brethren, and his disciples: and they continued there not many days.
How did the “beloved disciple”, who purports to be the source of the
Gospel of  John know about this miracle, while  the sources  for  the
synoptic Gospels apparently knew nothing of it, as it is found nowhere
else?   If the “beloved disciple” was the caretaker of Mary, mother of Jesus
after his death, then she could very well have told him the story.  While his
disciples were invited to the wedding along with Jesus, it seems that those
who attended did not tell this story to their colleagues.
The Gospel of Mark takes up the story at that point, telling us about the
first preaching of Jesus in a synagogue, on the Sabbath following his
recruitment of Simon Peter and Andrew, James and John:
1:21 And they went into Capernaum; and straightway on the sabbath day he
entered into the synagogue, and taught.  1:22 And they were astonished at
his doctrine: for he taught them as one that had authority, and not as the
scribes.  1:23 And there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit;
and he cried out, 1:24 Saying, Let us alone; what have we to do with thee,
thou Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who
thou art, the Holy One of God.  1:25 And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold
thy peace, and come out of him.  1:26 And when the unclean spirit had torn
him, and cried with a loud voice, he came out of him.  1:27 And they were all
amazed, insomuch that they questioned among themselves, saying, What
thing is this? what new doctrine is this? for with authority commandeth he
even the unclean spirits, and they do obey him.  1:28 And immediately his
fame spread abroad throughout all the region round about Galilee.
The Gospel of Luke tells the story in almost identical words:
4:30 But he passing through the midst of them went his way, 4:31 And came
down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and taught them on the sabbath
days. 4:32 And they were astonished at his doctrine: for his word was with
power. 4:33 And in the synagogue there was a man, which had a spirit of an
unclean devil, and cried out with a loud voice, 4:34 Saying, Let us alone;
what have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to

JESUS † The Complete Biography
destroy us? I know thee who thou art; the Holy One of God.  4:35 And
Jesus rebuked him, saying,  Hold thy peace, and come out of him. And
when the devil had thrown him in the midst, he came out of him, and hurt
him not. 4:36 And they were all amazed, and spake among themselves,
saying, What a word is this! for with authority and power he commandeth
the unclean spirits, and they come out. 4:37 And the fame of him went out
into every place of the country round about.
The Gospel of Marcion125 likewise records:
1:1 In the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, 1:2 [Pontius Pilatus
being the Governor of Judaea,] Jesus came down to Capernaum, a city in
Galilee,  and  was  1:3  teaching  on  the  sabbath  days  :  and  they  were
astonished at his doctrine : for his word was in authority.  1:4 And in the
synagogue there was a man which had a spirit of an unclean demon, and he
cried out with a loud 1:5 voice, Saying, "let us alone ; what have we to do
with thee, Jesus art thou come to destroy us I know thee 1: 6 who thou art :
the Holy One of God." And Jesus rebuked him, saying ; "Hold thy peace,
and come out of him." And when the demon had thrown him into the midst,
1:7 he came out of him, having done no hurt. And amazement came upon all,
and they spake together saying to one another, what is this word For in
authority and power he commandeth the unclean spirits, 1:8 and they come
out. And a rumour of him went out into every place of the country round
about…
After he preached and healed in the synagogue in Capernaum, according to
the Gospel of Mark, Jesus healed the wife of Simon Peter:
1:29 And forthwith, when they were come out of the synagogue, they
entered into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.  1:30
But Simon's wife's mother lay sick of a fever, and anon they tell him of her.
1:31  And  he  came  and  took  her  by  the  hand,  and  lifted  her  up;  and
immediately the fever left her, and she ministered unto them.  1:32 And at
even, when the sun did set, they brought unto him all that were diseased,
and  them  that  were possessed with  devils.   1:33 And  all the  city  was
gathered together at the door.  1:34 And he healed many that were sick of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
divers diseases, and cast out many devils; and suffered not the devils to
speak, because they knew him.
The Gospel of Matthew likewise reports this healing of the mother of
Peter’s wife, and the subsequent healing of those who came to him that
evening:
8:14 And when Jesus was come into Peter's house, he saw his wife's mother
laid, and sick of a fever.  8:15 And he touched her hand, and the fever left
her: and she arose, and ministered unto them.  8:16 When the even was
come, they brought unto him many that were possessed with devils: and he
cast out the spirits with his word, and healed all that were sick: 8:17 That it
might  be  fulfilled  which  was  spoken  by  Esaias  the  prophet126,  saying,
Himself took our infirmities, and bare our sicknesses.
The Gospel of Luke tells this story as well:
4:38 And he arose out of the synagogue, and entered into Simon's house.
And Simon's wife's mother was taken with a great fever; and they besought
him for her. 4:39 And he stood over her, and rebuked the fever; and it left
her: and immediately she arose and ministered unto them. 4:40 Now when
the sun was setting, all they that had any sick with divers diseases brought
them unto him; and he laid his hands on every one of them, and healed
them. 4:41 And devils also came out of many, crying out, and saying, Thou
art Christ the Son of God.  And he rebuking them suffered them not to
speak: for they knew that he was Christ.
As does the Gospel of Marcion127:
1:9 And he arose out of the synagogue, and entered into the house of
Simon. And Simon`s mother in law was taken with a great fever : and they
besought him for her. 1:10 And he stood over her, and rebuked the fever :
and it left her : and immidately she arose and ministered unto them.
1:22 And when the sun was setting, all as many as had any sick with divers
diseases brought them unto him; and he laid his hands on every one of
them, and healed them. 1:23 And demons also came out of many, crying
out, saying, "Thou art Son of God" and he rebuked them suffered them

JESUS † The Complete Biography
not to speak; for they knew that he was the Christ.
Now, having preached and healed aplenty in Capernaum, according to the
Gospel of Mark, Jesus sought a few hours of renewal:
1:35 And in the morning, rising up a great while before day, he went out, and
departed into a solitary place, and there prayed.  1:36 And Simon and they
that were with him followed after him.  1:37 And when they had found him,
they said unto him, All men seek for thee.  1:38 And he said unto them, Let
us go into the next towns, that I may preach there also: for therefore came
I forth.
The Gospel of Luke recapitulates this story:
4:42 And when it was day, he departed and went into a desert place: and
the people sought him, and came unto him, and stayed him, that he should
not depart from them. 4:43 And he said unto them,  I must preach the
kingdom of God to other cities also: for therefore am I sent.
The Gospel of Marcion likewise reports:
1:24 And when it was day, he departed and went into a desert place: and
the multitudes sought him, and came unto him, and stayed him, that he
should not depart from 1:25 them. And he said unto them, "I must announce
as good tidings the kingdom of God to the other cities also: for therefore
am I sent.
All three synoptic Gospels.  Matthew, Mark and Luke, describe Jesus
preaching throughout the Galilee, first Matthew:
4:23 And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and
preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all manner of sickness
and all manner of disease among the people. 4:24 And his fame went
throughout all Syria: and they brought unto him all sick people that were
taken with divers diseases and torments, and those which were possessed
with devils, and those which were lunatick, and those that had the palsy;
and he healed them. 4:25 And there followed him great multitudes of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
people from Galilee, and from Tetrarchy of Philip, and from Jerusalem,
and from Judaea, and from beyond Jordan.
Second the Gospel of Mark:
1:39 And he preached in their synagogues throughout all Galilee, and cast
out devils.
3:10 For he had healed many; insomuch that they pressed upon him for to
touch him, as many as had plagues. 3:11 And unclean spirits, when they saw
him, fell down before him, and cried, saying, Thou art the Son of God. 3:12
And he straitly charged them that they should not make him known.
3:7 But Jesus withdrew himself with his disciples to the sea: and a great
multitude  from  Galilee  followed  him,  and  from  Judaea,  3:8  And  from
Jerusalem, and from Idumaea, and from beyond Jordan; and they about
Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, when they had heard what great things
he did, came unto him.
Third, the Gospel of Luke:
4:44 And he preached in the synagogues of Galilee.
Also we find this attested in the Gospel of Marcion:
1:26 And he was preaching in the synagogues of Galilee.
There are several stories of cures that Jesus delivered to the people of
Galilee.   The Gospel of Matthew tells us:
8:2 And, behold, there came a leper and worshipped him, saying, Lord, if
thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. 8:3 And Jesus put forth his hand, and
touched him, saying, I will; be thou clean. And immediately his leprosy was
cleansed. 8:4 And Jesus saith unto him, See thou tell no man; but go thy
way, shew thyself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded,
for  a  testimony  unto  them.  8:5  And  when  Jesus  was  entered  into
Capernaum, there came unto him a centurion, beseeching him, 8:6 And

JESUS † The Complete Biography
saying,  Lord,  my  servant  lieth  at  home  sick  of  the  palsy,  grievously
tormented. 8:7 And Jesus saith unto him, I will come and heal him. 8:8 The
centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that thou shouldest
come under my roof: but speak the word only, and my servant shall be
healed. 8:9 For I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me: and I
say to this man, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh;
and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it. 8:10 When Jesus heard it, he
marvelled, and said to them that followed, Verily I say unto you, I have not
found so great faith, no, not in Israel. 8:11 And I say unto you, That many
shall come from the east and west, and shall sit down with Abraham, and
Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of heaven. 8:12 But the children of the
kingdom shall be cast out into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and
gnashing of teeth. 8:13 And Jesus said unto the centurion, Go thy way; and
as thou hast believed, so be it done unto thee. And his servant was healed
in the selfsame hour. 8:14 And when Jesus was come into Peter's house, he
saw his wife's mother laid, and sick of a fever. 8:15 And he touched her
hand, and the fever left her: and she arose, and ministered unto them. 8:16
When the even was come, they brought unto him many that were possessed
with devils: and he cast out the spirits with his word, and healed all that
were sick: 8:17 That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the
prophet, saying, Himself took our infirmities, and bare our sicknesses. 8:18
Now when Jesus saw great multitudes about him, he gave commandment to
depart unto the other side. 8:19 And a certain scribe came, and said unto
him,  Master, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. 8:20 And Jesus
saith unto him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests;
but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head. 8:21 And another of his
disciples said unto him, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father. 8:22
But Jesus said unto him, Follow me; and let the dead bury their dead.
The Gospel of Mark tells this story:
1:40 And there came a leper to him, beseeching him, and kneeling down to
him, and saying unto him, If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. 1:41 And
Jesus, moved with compassion, put forth his hand, and touched him, and
saith unto him, I will; be thou clean. 1:42 And as soon as he had spoken,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was cleansed. 1:43 And
he straitly charged him, and forthwith sent him away; 1:44 And saith unto
him, See thou say nothing to any man: but go thy way, shew thyself to the
priest, and offer for thy cleansing those things which Moses commanded,
for a testimony unto them. 1:45 But he went out, and began to publish it
much, and to blaze abroad the matter, insomuch that Jesus could no more
openly enter into the city, but was without in desert places: and they came
to him from every quarter. 2:1 And again he entered into Capernaum after
some days; and it was noised that he was in the house. 2:2 And straightway
many were gathered together, insomuch that there was no room to receive
them, no, not so much as about the door: and he preached the word unto
them. 2:3 And they come unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy, which
was borne of four. 2:4 And when they could not come nigh unto him for
the press, they uncovered the roof where he was: and when they had
broken it up, they let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay. 2:5
When Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins
be forgiven thee. 2:6 But there was certain of the scribes sitting there, and
reasoning in their hearts, 2:7 Why doth this man thus speak blasphemies?
who  can  forgive  sins  but  God  only?  2:8  And  immediately when  Jesus
perceived in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said unto
them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts? 2:9 Whether is it easier to
say to the sick of the palsy, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say, Arise, and
take up thy bed, and walk? 2:10 But that ye may know that the Son of man
hath power on earth to forgive sins, (he saith to the sick of the palsy,) 2:11 I
say unto thee,  Arise, and take up thy bed, and go thy way into thine
house.  2:12 And immediately he arose, took up the bed, and went forth
before them all; insomuch that they were all amazed, and glorified God,
saying, We never saw it on this fashion.
The Gospel of Luke refers to the curing of the centurion’s servant:
7:1  Now when he had ended all his sayings in the audience of the people,
he entered into Capernaum. 7:2  And a certain centurion's servant, who
was dear unto him, was sick, and ready to die. 7:3  And when he heard of
Jesus, he sent unto him the elders of the Jews, beseeching him that he

JESUS † The Complete Biography
would come and heal his servant. 7:4  And when they came to Jesus, they
besought him instantly, saying, That he was worthy for whom he should do
this: 7:5  For he loveth our nation, and he hath built us a synagogue.
7:6  Then Jesus went with them. And when he was now not far from the
house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying unto him,  Lord, trouble
not thyself: for I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter under my roof:
7:7  Wherefore neither thought I myself worthy to come unto thee: but say
in a word, and my servant shall be healed. 7:8  For I also am a man set under
authority, having under me soldiers, and I say unto one, Go, and he goeth;
and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he
doeth it. 7:9  When Jesus heard these things, he marvelled at him, and
turned him about, and said unto the people that followed him, I say unto
you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel. 7:10  And they that
were sent, returning to the house, found the servant whole that had been
sick.
The Gospel of John indicates that at this juncture, Jesus left the Galilee
and went to Jerusalem to celebrate Passover:
2:13 And the Jews' passover was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.
2:14 And found in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep and doves,
and the changers of money sitting: 2:15 And when he had made a scourge
of small cords, he drove them all out of the temple, and the sheep, and the
oxen; and poured out the changers' money, and overthrew the tables; 2:16
And said unto them that sold doves, Take these things hence; make not my
Father's  house  an  house  of  merchandise. 2:17  And  his  disciples
remembered that it was written, The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up.
2:18 Then answered the Jews and said unto him, What sign shewest thou
unto us, seeing that thou doest these things? 2:19 Jesus answered and said
unto them,  Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. 2:20
Then said the Jews, Forty and six years was this temple in building, and wilt
thou rear it up in three days? 2:21 But he spake of the temple of his body.
2:22 When therefore he was risen from the dead, his disciples remembered
that he had said this unto them; and they believed the scripture, and the
word which Jesus had said. 2:23 Now when he was in Jerusalem at the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
passover, in the feast day, many believed in his name, when they saw the
miracles which he did. 2:24 But Jesus did not commit himself unto them,
because he knew all men, 2:25 And needed not that any should testify of
man: for he knew what was in man. 3:1 There was a man of the Pharisees,
named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews: 3:2 The same came to Jesus by
night, and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from
God: for no man can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be
with him.  3:3 Jesus answered and said unto him,  Verily, verily, I say unto
thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. 3:4
Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? can he
enter the second time into his mother's womb, and be born?  3:5 Jesus
answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water
and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. 3:6 That which
is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. 3:7
Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again. 3:8 The wind
bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not
tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of
the Spirit. 3:9 Nicodemus answered and said unto him,  How can these
things be? 3:10 Jesus answered and said unto him, Art thou a master of
Israel, and knowest not these things? 3:11 Verily, verily, I say unto thee, We
speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen; and ye receive not
our witness. 3:12 If I have told you earthly things, and ye believe not, how
shall ye believe, if I tell you of heavenly things? 3:13 And no man hath
ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven, even the Son
of man which is in heaven. 3:14 And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the
wilderness, even so must the Son of man be lifted up: 3:15 That whosoever
believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. 3:16 For God so
loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever
believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. 3:17 For God
sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world
through  him  might  be  saved.  3:18  He  that  believeth  on  him  is  not
condemned: but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he
hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. 3:19 And
this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men loved

JESUS † The Complete Biography
darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil. 3:20 For every
one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his
deeds should be reproved. 3:21 But he that doeth truth cometh to the light,
that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are wrought in God. 3:22
After these things came Jesus and his disciples into the land of Judaea;
and there he tarried with them, and baptized.
Jesus returns to Judaea and baptizes
The  Gospel of John attests that after his sojourn in the Galilee, Jesus
returned to Judaea and did baptize there:
3:22 After these things came Jesus and his disciples into the land of
Judaea; and there he tarried with them, and baptized.  3:23 And John also
was baptizing in Aenon near to Salim, because there was much water there:
and they came, and were baptized.  3:24 For John was not yet cast into
prison.  3:25 Then there arose a question between some of John's disciples
and the Jews about purifying.  3:26 And they came unto John, and said
unto him,  Rabbi, he that was with thee beyond Jordan, to whom thou
barest witness, behold, the same baptizeth, and all men come to him.  3:27
John answered and said, A man can receive nothing, except it be given him
from heaven.  3:28 Ye yourselves bear me witness, that I said, I am not the
Christ, but that I am sent before him.  3:29 He that hath the bride is the
bridegroom: but the friend of the bridegroom, which standeth and heareth
him,  rejoiceth  greatly  because  of  the  bridegroom's  voice:  this  my  joy
therefore is fulfilled.  3:30 He must increase, but I must decrease.  3:31 He
that cometh from above is above all: he that is of the earth is earthly, and
speaketh of the earth: he that cometh from heaven is above all.  3:32 And
what he hath seen and heard, that he testifieth; and no man receiveth his
testimony.  3:33 He that hath received his testimony hath set to his seal
that God is true.  3:34 For he whom God hath sent speaketh the words of
God: for God giveth not the Spirit by measure unto him.  3:35 The Father
loveth the Son,  and hath given all things into his hand. 3:36 He that
believeth on the Son hath everlasting life: and he that believeth not the
Son shall not see life; but the wrath of God abideth on him.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The  Gospel of John also reports that ultimately the disciples of Jesus
baptized more disciples than John:
4:1 When therefore the LORD knew how the Pharisees had heard that
Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John, 4:2 (Though Jesus
himself baptized not, but his disciples,) 4:3 He left Judaea, and departed
again into Galilee.
John is imprisoned by Herod Antipas
Even though John attested to the superior station of Jesus after the latter’s
baptism, he nonetheless continued to pursue his own mission.  As he called
all to repentance and righteousness, he could not fail to note the violation
of divine law by no less than Herod Antipas, the tetrarch or ethnarch of
Galilee.   Herod  Antipas  imprisoned  John  when  this  prophet  in  the
wilderness condemned his immorality in marrying the wife of his brother
Herod Phillip.  Apparently Herod Philip had not divorced his wife, so she
would be committing polyandry.  While polygamy, that is, plurality of
wives  was  permitted  to  men,  multiple  husbands  were  not  allowed  to
women…apart from those women whose harlotry was allowed to continue,
notwithstanding official disapproval.  Josephus describes the situation,
briefly in “Antiquities of the Jews” (18.5.1 109-115):
“About this time Aretas, the king of  Petra, and Herod the Tetrarch had a
quarrel on account of the following. Herod the tetrarch had married the
daughter of Aretas and had lived with her a great while; but once when he
was on his way to Rome he lodged with  his half-brother, also named
Herod [Philip] but who had a different mother,  the high priest Simon's
daughter.  There he fell in love with Herodias, this latter Herod's wife, who
was the daughter of their brother Aristobulus and the sister of Agrippa
the Great.  This man ventured to talk to her about a marriage between
them; she accepted, and an agreement was made for her to come to him as
soon as he should return from Rome, one condition of this marriage being
that he should divorce Aretas's daughter. So when he had made this
agreement,  he  sailed  to  Rome;  but  when  he  had  finished  there  and
returned again, his wife, having discovered the agreement he had made
with Herodias, and before he knew that she knew of the plan, asked him to

JESUS † The Complete Biography
send her to Machaerus, a place on the border between the territories of
Aretas  and  Herod,  without  informing  him  of  any  of  her  intentions.
Accordingly Herod sent her there, thinking his wife had not perceived
anything. But she had sent messages a good while before to Machaerus,
which  had  been  under  the  control  of  her  father,  and  so  all  things
necessary for her escape were made ready for her by the general of
Aretas's army.  By that means she soon came into Arabia, under the
conduct of the several generals, who carried her from one to another
successively; and soon she came to her father and told him of Herod's
intentions.  Aretas made this the start of his enmity toward Herod. He also
had a quarrel with him about their boundaries in the area of Gabalis. So
they raised armies on both sides and prepared for war, sending their
generals to fight instead of themselves. And when they had joined battle,
all Herod's army was destroyed by the treachery of some fugitives who,
though they were of the tetrarchy of Philip and joined the army, betrayed
him.  So Herod wrote about these affairs to Emperor Tiberius, who was
very angry at the attempt made by Aretas and wrote to Vitellius to make
war upon him and either to take him alive, and bring him in chains, or to kill
him, and send him his head. This was the command that Tiberius gave to
the governor of Syria.”
Later in the “Antiquities” (18.5.3 136), Josephus continues the tale of
Herod Antipas and John the Baptist:
“Herodias was married to Herod, the son of Herod the Great by Mariamme
the daughter of Simon the high priest. They had a daughter Salome, after
whose birth Herodias, taking it into her head to flout the way of our
fathers, married Herod the Tetrarch, her husband's brother by the same
father, who was tetrarch of Galilee; to do this she parted from a living
husband.”
It further details, in the “Antiquities” (18.7.1-2), the character of Herodias,
and the end she came to as a direct result of her political machinations
gone awry:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
But  Herodias,  Agrippa's  sister,  who  now  lived  as  wife  to  that  Herod
[Anipas] who was tetrarch of Galilee and Peres, took this authority of her
brother in an envious manner, particularly when she saw that he had a
greater dignity bestowed on him than her husband had; since, when he ran
away, it was because he was not able to pay his debts; and now he was
come back, he was in a way of dignity, and of great good fortune. She was
therefore grieved and much displeased at so great a mutation of his
affairs; and chiefly when she saw him marching among the multitude with
the usual ensigns of royal authority, she was not able to conceal how
miserable she was, by reason of the envy she had towards him; but she
excited her husband, and desired him that he would sail to Rome, to court
honors equal to his; for she said that she could not bear to live any longer,
while Agrippa, the son of that Aristobulus who was condemned to die by
his father [King Herod the Great], one that came to her husband in such
extreme poverty, that the necessaries of life were forced to be entirely
supplied him day by day; and when he fled away from his creditors by sea,
he now returned a king; while he was himself the son of a king, and while
the near relation he bare to royal authority called upon him to gain the like
dignity, he sat still, and was contented with a privater life. "But then, Herod
[Antipas], although thou wast formerly not concerned to be in a lower
condition than thy father [King Herod the Great] from whom thou wast
derived  had  been,  yet  do  thou  now seek  after  the  dignity  which  thy
kinsman hath attained to; and do not thou bear this contempt, that a man
who admired thy riches should he in greater honor than thyself, nor suffer
his  poverty  to  show  itself  able  to  purchase  greater  things  than  our
abundance; nor do thou esteem it other than a shameful thing to be
inferior to one who, the other day, lived upon thy charity. But let us go to
Rome, and let us spare no pains nor expenses, either of silver or gold,
since they cannot be kept for any better use than for the obtaining of a
kingdom."
But for Herod [Antipas], he opposed her request at this time, out of the
love of ease, and having a suspicion of the trouble he should have at
Rome; so he tried to instruct her better. But the more she saw him draw

JESUS † The Complete Biography
back, the more she pressed him to it, and desired him to leave no stone
unturned in order to be king; and at last she left not off till she engaged
him, whether he would or not, to be of her sentiments, because he could no
otherwise  avoid  her  importunity.  So  he  got  all  things  ready,  after  as
sumptuous a manner as he was able, and spared for nothing, and went up
to Rome, and took Herodias along with him. But Agrippa, when he was
made sensible of their intentions and preparations, he also prepared to go
thither; and as soon as he heard they set sail, he sent Fortunatus, one of
his freed-men, to Rome, to carry presents to the emperor, and letters
against Herod [Antipas], and to give Caius a particular account of those
matters, if he should have any opportunity. This man followed Herod so
quick, and had so prosperous a voyage, and came so little after Herod,
that while Herod was with Caius, he came himself, and delivered his letters;
for they both sailed to Dicearchia, and found Caius at Bairn, which is itself
a little city of  Campania,  at  the distance of  about  five furlongs from
Dicearchia.  There  are  in  that  place  royal  palaces,  with  sumptuous
apartments, every emperor still endeavoring to outdo his predecessor's
magnificence; the place ,also affords warm baths, that spring out of the
ground of their own accord, which are of advantage for the recovery of
the health of those that make use of them; and, besides, they minister to
men's luxury also. Now Caius saluted Herod, for he first met with him, and
then looked upon the letters which Agrippa had sent him, and which were
written in order to accuse Herod; wherein he accused him, that he had
been in confederacy with Sejanus against Tiberius's and that he was now
confederate with Artabanus, the king of Parthia, in opposition to the
government of Caius; as a demonstration of which he alleged, that he had
armor sufficient for seventy thousand men ready in his armory. Caius was
moved at this information, and asked Herod whether what was said about
the armor was true; and when he confessed there was such armor there,
for he could not deny the same, the truth of it being too notorious, Caius
took that to be a sufficient proof of the accusation, that he intended to
revolt. So he took away from him his tetrarchy, and gave it by way of
addition to Agrippa's kingdom; he also gave Herod's money to Agrippa,
and, by way of punishment, awarded him a perpetual banishment, and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
appointed Lyons, a city of Gaul, to be his place of habitation. But when he
was informed that Herodias was Agrippa's sister, he made her a present of
what  money  was  her  own,  and  told  her  that  it  was  her  brother  who
prevented her being put under the same calamity with her husband. But
she made this reply: "Thou, indeed, O emperor! actest after a magnificent
manner, and as becomes thyself in what thou offerest me; but the kindness
which I have for my husband hinders me from partaking of the favor of thy
gift; for it is not just that I, who have been made a partner in his prosperity,
should forsake him in his misfortunes." Hereupon Caius was angry at her,
and sent her with Herod into banishment, and gave her estate to Agrippa.
And thus did God punish Herodias for her envy at her brother, and Herod
also for giving ear to the vain discourses of a woman. Now Caius managed
public affairs with great magnanimity during the first and second year of
his reign, and behaved himself with such moderation, that he gained the
good-will of the Romans themselves, and of his other subjects. But, in
process of time, he went beyond the bounds of human nature in his
conceit of himself, and by reason of the vastness of his dominions made
himself a god, and took upon himself to act in all things to the reproach of
the Deity itself.
While Josephus tells the stories of kings and queens and rarely refers to
plain folk, nonetheless, hopefully these ancillary anecdotes will shed some
light on the Roman lives being lived parallel to the principally Jewish lives
depicted in the Gospels and the Talmud.  The synoptic Gospels contain
accounts of John’s imprisonment as a punishment for his speaking out
publicly against this breech of the divine law.  In the Gospel of Matthew
the story is told that when John is imprisoned by Herod Antipas:
14:3 For Herod had laid hold on John, and bound him, and put him in
prison for Herodias' sake, his brother Philip's wife.  14:4 For John said
unto him, It is not lawful for thee to have her.  14:5 And when he would have
put him to death, he feared the multitude, because they counted him as a
prophet.
The Gospel of Mark confirms the imprisonment of John:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
6:17 For Herod himself had sent forth and laid hold upon John, and bound
him in prison for Herodias' sake, his brother Philip's wife: for he had
married her.  6:18 For John had said unto Herod, It is not lawful for thee to
have thy brother's wife.
The Gospel of Luke likewise refers to the imprisonment of John:
3:19 But  Herod the tetrarch,  being  reproved  by him  for Herodias his
brother Philip's wife, and for all the evils which Herod had done, 3:20
Added yet this above all, that he shut up John in prison.
Jesus visits Samaria on his way to Galilee
Furthermore, according to the Gospel of John, Jesus did not go directly
to the Galilee—he traveled through Samaria.
4:4 And he must needs go through Samaria.  4:5 Then cometh he to
a city of Samaria, which is called Sychar, near to the parcel of
ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. 4:6 Now Jacob's well
was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied with his journey, sat thus
on the well: and it was about the sixth hour. 4:7 There cometh a
woman of Samaria to draw water: Jesus saith unto her, Give me to
drink. 4:8 (For his disciples were gone away unto the city to buy
meat.) 4:9 Then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that
thou,  being  a  Jew,  askest  drink  of  me,  which  am  a  woman  of
Samaria? for the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans. 4:10
Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God,
and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink; thou wouldest have
asked of him, and he would have given thee living water. 4:11 The
woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the
well is deep: from whence then hast thou that living water? 4:12 Art
thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well, and
drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle? 4:13 Jesus
answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall

JESUS † The Complete Biography
thirst again: 4:14 But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall
give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be
in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life. 4:15 The
woman saith unto him,  Sir, give me this water, that I thirst not,
neither come hither to draw. 4:16 Jesus saith unto her, Go, call thy
husband, and come hither. 4:17 The woman answered and said,  I
have no husband. Jesus said unto her, Thou hast well said, I have
no husband: 4:18 For thou hast had five husbands; and he whom
thou now hast is not thy husband: in that saidst thou truly. 4:19 The
woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet. 4:20
Our  fathers  worshipped  in  this  mountain;  and  ye  say,  that  in
Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. 4:21 Jesus saith
unto her, Woman, believe me, the hour cometh, when ye shall neither
in this mountain, nor yet at Jerusalem, worship the Father. 4:22 Ye
worship ye know not what: we know what we worship: for salvation is
of the Jews. 4:23 But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true
worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for the
Father seeketh such to worship him. 4:24 God is a Spirit: and they
that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. 4:25 The
woman saith unto him, I know that Messias cometh, which is called
Christ: when he is come, he will tell us all things. 4:26 Jesus saith
unto her, I that speak unto thee am he. 4:27 And upon this came his
disciples, and marvelled that he talked with the woman: yet no man
said, What seekest thou? or, Why talkest thou with her? 4:28 The
woman then left her waterpot, and went her way into the city, and
saith to the men, 4:29 Come, see a man, which told me all things that
ever I did: is not this the Christ? 4:30 Then they went out of the city,
and came unto him.
There is a pause in the story to take a meal provides Jesus with another
opportunity to preach:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
4:31 In the mean while his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat.
4:32 But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that ye know not of.
4:33 Therefore said the disciples one to another,  Hath any man
brought him ought to eat? 4:34 Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to
do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work. 4:35 Say not
ye, There are yet four months, and then cometh harvest? behold, I
say unto you, Lift up your eyes, and look on the fields; for they are
white already to harvest. 4:36 And he that reapeth receiveth wages,
and gathereth fruit unto life eternal: that both he that soweth and
he that reapeth may rejoice together. 4:37 And herein is that saying
true, One soweth, and another reapeth. 4:38 I sent you to reap that
whereon ye bestowed no labour: other men laboured, and ye are
entered into their labours.
At this point the Samaritan woman has returned to her city and has told
many of the residents about Jesus, and the story continues:
4:39 And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the
saying of the woman, which testified, He told me all that ever I did.
4:40 So when the Samaritans were come unto him, they besought
him that he would tarry with them: and he abode there two days.
4:41 And many more believed because of his own word; 4:42 And
said unto the woman, Now we believe, not because of thy saying: for
we have heard him ourselves, and know that this is indeed the
Christ, the Saviour of the world.
Jesus proceeds to Nazareth
The Gospel of John then says that after spending two days in Samaria,
Jesus traveled on to his hometown, Nazareth:
4:43 Now after two days he departed thence, and went into Galilee.  4:44
For Jesus himself testified,  that a prophet hath no honour in his own
country.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The  synoptic  gospels  were  more  detailed  in  their  description  of  the
rejection of Jesus in his home city.
The Gospel of Matthew tells the reader:
13:54 And when he was come into his own country, he taught them in
their synagogue, insomuch that they were astonished, and said,
Whence hath this man this wisdom, and these mighty works? 13:55 Is
not this the carpenter's son? is not his mother called Mary? and his
brethren, James, and Joses, and Simon, and Judas? 13:56 And his
sisters, are they not all with us? Whence then hath this man all these
things?  13:57 And they were offended in him. But Jesus said unto
them, A prophet is not without honour, save in his own country, and
in his own house.  13:58 And he did not many mighty works there
because of their unbelief.
Gospel of Mark tells these same story:
6:1 And he went out from thence, and came into his own country; and his
disciples follow him. 6:2 And when the sabbath day was come, he began to
teach in the synagogue: and many hearing him were astonished, saying,
From whence hath this man these things? and what wisdom is this which is
given unto him, that even such mighty works are wrought by his hands? 6:3
Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James, and
Joses, and of Juda, and Simon? and are not his sisters here with us? And
they were offended at him. 6:4 But Jesus, said unto them, A prophet is not
without honour, but in his own country, and among his own kin, and in his
own house. 6:5 And he could there do no mighty work, save that he laid his
hands  upon  a  few  sick  folk,  and  healed  them.  6:6  And  he  marvelled
because of their unbelief. And he went round about the villages, teaching.
The Gospel of Luke tells of his visit to Nazareth in greatest detail:
4:16 And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up: and,
as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the sabbath day,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and stood up for to read. 4:17 And there was delivered unto him the
book of the prophet Esaias. And when he had opened the book, he
found the place where it was written, 4:18 The Spirit of the Lord is
upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the
poor;  he  hath  sent  me  to  heal  the  brokenhearted,  to  preach
deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to
set at liberty them that are bruised, 4:19 To preach the acceptable
year of the Lord. 4:20 And he closed the book, and he gave it again
to the minister, and sat down. And the eyes of all them that were in
the synagogue were fastened on him. 4:21 And he began to say unto
them,  This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears. 4:22 And all
bare  him  witness,  and  wondered  at  the  gracious  words  which
proceeded out of his mouth. And they said,  Is not this Joseph's
son? 4:23 And he said unto them,  Ye will surely say unto me this
proverb, Physician, heal thyself: whatsoever we have heard done in
Capernaum, do also here in thy country. 4:24 And he said, Verily I
say unto you, No prophet is accepted in his own country. 4:25 But I
tell you of a truth, many widows were in Israel in the days of Elias,
when the heaven was shut up three years and six months, when
great famine was throughout all the land; 4:26 But unto none of
them was Elias sent, save unto Sarepta, a city of Sidon, unto a
woman that was a widow. 4:27 And many lepers were in Israel in the
time of Eliseus the prophet; and none of them was cleansed, saving
Naaman the Syrian. 4:28 And all they in the synagogue, when they
heard these things, were filled with wrath, 4:29 And rose up, and
thrust him out of the city, and led him unto the brow of the hill
whereon  their  city  was  built,  that  they  might  cast  him  down
headlong.
The Gospel of Marcion cites the expression “Physician, heal thyself” in a
different context, immediately after the healing of Simon’s mother:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
1:11 And he came to Nazareth, and went into the 1:12 synagogue [on
the  Sabbath  day]  and  sat  down.  And  the  eyes  of  all  in  the
synagogue fastened on him, 1:13-14 And he began to speak to them;
and all wondered 1:15 at the words which proceedeth from his mouth.
And he said unto them, "Ye will surely say unto me this parable,
Physician,  heal  thyself;  whatsoever  we  have  1:16  heard  done  at
Capernaum, do also here. But I tell you of a truth, many widows
were in Israel in the days of Elijah , when the heaven was shut up
three  years  and  six  months,  1:17  when  great  famine  occured
throughout all the land: and unto none of them was Elijah sent, but
only to Sarepta , 1:18 a city of Sidon, unto a woman that was a widow.
And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Elisha the prophet :
and none of them was cleansed, but only 1:19 Naaman the Syrian".
And they were all filled with wrath 1:20 in the synagogue, when they
heard these things, and rose up, and thrust him out of the city, and
led him unto the brow of the hill whereon their city was built, to cast
1:21 him down headlong. But he passing through the midst of them
went his way.
The expression “Physician, heal thyself” may well have derived from an
ancient source, but it is not found in the published writings of Galen,
Hippocrates or Pythagoras.  It may have been known to and therefore cited
in the Gospel of Luke (4:23) because he is described as being a physician
(Paul’s Epistle to the Colossians 4:14) and author of the Gospel of Luke and
Book of Acts (Luke 1:3; Acts 1:1).   He is also accounted a company of Paul
(Acts 16:10, Second Epistle of Paul to Timothy 4:11).
The reference to the innate wisdom of Jesus in these two Gospels recall
similar words in the Gospel of John, albeit in the Temple in Jerusalem
rather than in a synagogue in Nazareth:
7:15 And the Jews marvelled, saying, How knoweth this man letters,
having never learned?
As the Gospel of John stated succinctly, Jesus was not well received in
his hometown:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
4:44 For Jesus himself testified, that a prophet hath no honour in his own
country.
The various articulations of “No prophet is accepted in his own country”
seems to have originated with Jesus, and it is also reported in the Gospel
of Thomas:
“A prophet is not acceptable in his own country, neither does a
physician cure those who know him.”128
In the Gospel of Luke and the Gospel of Marcion, cited above, Jesus
recounts a story of a miracle by Elijah the prophet, that is derived from the
Third Book of Kings, although it contains some details not found there:
17:7 And it came to pass after a while, that the brook dried up, because
there had been no rain in the land. 17:8 And the word of the LORD came
unto him, saying, 17:9  Arise, get thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to
Zidon, and dwell there: behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to
sustain thee. 17:10 So he arose and went to Zarephath. And when he came
to the gate of the city, behold, the widow woman was there gathering of
sticks: and he called to her, and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in
a vessel, that I may drink. 17:11 And as she was going to fetch it, he called to
her, and said, Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thine hand. 17:12
And she said,  As the LORD thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but an
handful of meal in a barrel, and a little oil in a cruse: and, behold, I am
gathering two sticks, that I may go in and dress it for me and my son, that
we may eat it, and die. 17:13 And Elijah said unto her, Fear not; go and do as
thou hast said: but make me thereof a little cake first, and bring it unto me,
and after make for thee and for thy son. 17:14 For thus saith the LORD
God of Israel, The barrel of meal shall not waste, neither shall the cruse of
oil fail, until the day that the LORD sendeth rain upon the earth. 17:15 And
she went and did according to the saying of Elijah: and she, and he, and
her house, did eat many days. 17:16 And the barrel of meal wasted not,
neither did the cruse of oil fail, according to the word of the LORD, which
he spake by Elijah. 17:17 And it came to pass after these things, that the
son of the woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick; and his sickness was

JESUS † The Complete Biography
so sore, that there was no breath left in him. 17:18 And she said unto Elijah,
What have I to do with thee, O thou man of God? art thou come unto me to
call my sin to remembrance, and to slay my son? 17:19 And he said unto her,
Give me thy son. And he took him out of her bosom, and carried him up
into a loft, where he abode, and laid him upon his own bed. 17:20 And he
cried unto the LORD, and said, O LORD my God, hast thou also brought
evil upon the widow with whom I sojourn, by slaying her son? 17:21 And he
stretched himself upon the child three times, and cried unto the LORD,
and said, O LORD my God, I pray thee, let this child's soul come into him
again. 17:22 And the LORD heard the voice of Elijah; and the soul of the
child came into him again, and he revived. 17:23 And Elijah took the child,
and brought him down out of the chamber into the house, and delivered
him unto his mother: and Elijah said,  See, thy son liveth. 17:24 And the
woman said to Elijah, Now by this I know that thou art a man of God, and
that the word of the LORD in thy mouth is truth.
The second story, that of the cleansing of the leper Naaman the Syrian, by
Elisha is found in the Fourth Book of Kings:
5:1 Now Naaman, captain of the host of the king of Syria, was a great man
with his master, and honourable, because by him the LORD had given
deliverance unto Syria: he was also a mighty man in valour, but he was a
leper. 5:2 And the Syrians had gone out by companies, and had brought
away captive out of the land of Israel a little maid; and she waited on
Naaman's wife. 5:3 And she said unto her mistress, Would God my lord were
with the prophet that is in Samaria! for he would recover him of his leprosy.
5:4 And one went in, and told his lord, saying, Thus and thus said the maid
that is of the land of Israel. 5:5 And the king of Syria said, Go to, go, and I
will send a letter unto the king of Israel. And he departed, and took with
him ten talents of silver, and six thousand pieces of gold, and ten changes
of raiment. 5:6 And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, saying, Now
when this letter is come unto thee, behold, I have therewith sent Naaman
my servant to thee, that thou mayest recover him of his leprosy. 5:7 And it
came to pass, when the king of Israel had read the letter, that he rent his
clothes, and said, Am I God, to kill and to make alive, that this man doth

JESUS † The Complete Biography
send unto me to recover a man of his leprosy? wherefore consider, I pray
you, and see how he seeketh a quarrel against me. 5:8 And it was so, when
Elisha the man of God had heard that the king of Israel had rent his
clothes, that he sent to the king, saying,  Wherefore hast thou rent thy
clothes? let him come now to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet
in Israel. 5:9 So Naaman came with his horses and with his chariot, and
stood at the door of the house of Elisha. 5:10 And Elisha sent a messenger
unto him, saying, Go and wash in Jordan seven times, and thy flesh shall
come again to thee, and thou shalt be clean. 5:11 But Naaman was wroth,
and went away, and said, Behold, I thought, He will surely come out to me,
and stand, and call on the name of the LORD his God, and strike his hand
over the place, and recover the leper. 5:12 Are not Abana and Pharpar,
rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? may I not wash in
them, and be clean? So he turned and went away in a rage. 5:13 And his
servants came near,  and spake unto him, and said, My father, if  the
prophet had bid thee do some great thing, wouldest thou not have done it?
how much rather then, when he saith to thee, Wash, and be clean? 5:14
Then went he down, and dipped himself seven times in Jordan, according
to the saying of the man of God: and his flesh came again like unto the
flesh of a little child, and he was clean. 5:15 And he returned to the man of
God, he and all his company, and came, and stood before him: and he said,
Behold, now I know that there is no God in all the earth, but in Israel: now
therefore, I pray thee, take a blessing of thy servant. 5:16 But he said, As
the LORD liveth, before whom I stand, I will receive none. And he urged
him to take it; but he refused. 5:17 And Naaman said, Shall there not then, I
pray thee, be given to thy servant two mules' burden of earth? for thy
servant will henceforth offer neither burnt offering nor sacrifice unto other
gods, but unto the LORD. 5:18 In this thing the LORD pardon thy servant,
that when my master goeth into the house of Rimmon to worship there, and
he leaneth on my hand, and I bow myself in the house of Rimmon: when I
bow down myself in the house of Rimmon, the LORD pardon thy servant in
this thing. 5:19 And he said unto him, Go in peace. So he departed from him
a little way. 5:20 But Gehazi, the servant of Elisha the man of God, said,
Behold, my master hath spared Naaman this Syrian, in not receiving at his

JESUS † The Complete Biography
hands that which he brought: but, as the LORD liveth, I will run after him,
and take somewhat of him. 5:21 So Gehazi followed after Naaman. And
when Naaman saw him running after him, he lighted down from the chariot
to meet him, and said, Is all well? 5:22 And he said, All is well. My master
hath sent me, saying, Behold, even now there be come to me from mount
Ephraim two young men of the sons of the prophets: give them, I pray
thee, a talent of silver, and two changes of garments. 5:23 And Naaman
said, Be content, take two talents. And he urged him, and bound two
talents of silver in two bags, with two changes of garments, and laid them
upon two of his servants; and they bare them before him. 5:24 And when
he came to the tower, he took them from their hand, and bestowed them in
the house: and he let the men go, and they departed. 5:25 But he went in,
and stood before his master. And Elisha said unto him,  Whence comest
thou, Gehazi? And he said, Thy servant went no whither. 5:26 And he said
unto him, Went not mine heart with thee, when the man turned again from
his chariot to meet thee? Is it a time to receive money, and to receive
garments,  and  oliveyards,  and  vineyards,  and  sheep,  and  oxen,  and
menservants, and maidservants? 5:27 The leprosy therefore of Naaman
shall cleave unto thee, and unto thy seed for ever.  And he went out from
his presence a leper as white as snow.
While the Fourth Book of Kings does not speak of “…many lepers…in
Israel in the time of Eliseus [Elisha] the prophet” (Gospel of Luke 4:27), it
does refer to four lepers, who are not cleansed of their ailment by Elisha:
7:3 And there were four leprous men at the entering in of the gate:
and they said one to another, Why sit we here until we die? 7:4 If we
say, We will enter into the city, then the famine is in the city, and we
shall die there: and if we sit still here, we die also. Now therefore
come, and let us fall unto the host of the Syrians: if they save us
alive, we shall live; and if they kill us, we shall but die. 7:5 And they
rose up in the twilight, to go unto the camp of the Syrians: and when
they were come to the uttermost part of the camp of Syria, behold,
there was no man there. 7:6 For the LORD had made the host of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the Syrians to hear a noise of chariots, and a noise of horses, even
the noise of a great host: and they said one to another, Lo, the king
of Israel hath hired against us the kings of the Hittites, and the
kings of the Egyptians, to come upon us. 7:7 Wherefore they arose
and fled in the twilight, and left their tents, and their horses, and
their asses, even the camp as it was, and fled for their life. 7:8 And
when these lepers came to the uttermost part of the camp, they
went into one tent, and did eat and drink, and carried thence silver,
and gold, and raiment, and went and hid it; and came again, and
entered into another tent, and carried thence also, and went and
hid it.
This is a telling story, as told by Jesus in the  Gospel of Luke and the
Gospel of Marcion, inasmuch as it provides a comparison between the
healings of Elijah, regarded by Jews as a uniquely gifted prophet in that
regard, and those of Jesus, and points out that Jesus healed many more
than Elijah.  This has the ring of truth about it, inasmuch as it would help
to explain why there was such widespread and profound hostility to Jesus
in the Jewish community, particularly among its leadership.  It would be
one thing to perform healings, but to suggest that one has superior divine
gifts than those of Elijah, would be, for many Jews, beyond the pale.
Jesus leaves Nazareth and journeys into the Galilee
The Gospel of John likewise indicates the departure of Jesus into Galilee
was because of his growing notoriety, not related to the imprisonment of
John:
4:1 When therefore the LORD knew how the Pharisees had heard that
Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John, 4:2 (Though Jesus
himself baptized not, but his disciples,) 4:3 He left Judaea, and departed
again into Galilee.
His return to Capernaum in to the Galilee is also attested in the Gospel of
Matthew:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
4:12  Now  when  Jesus  had  heard  that  John  was  cast  into  prison,  he
departed into Galilee; 4:13 And leaving Nazareth, he came and dwelt in
Capernaum, which is upon the sea coast, in the borders of Zabulon and
Nephthalim: 4:14 That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the
prophet, saying, 4:15 The land of Zabulon, and the land of Nephthalim, by
the way of the sea, beyond Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles; 4:16 The
people which sat in darkness saw great light; and to them which sat in the
region and shadow of death light is sprung up.  4:17 From that time Jesus
began to preach, and to say,  Repent: for the kingdom of heaven is at
hand.
This return to Galilee was linked to the fulfillment of a prophecy in the
Book of Isaiah:
9:1 Nevertheless the dimness shall not be such as was in her vexation, when
at the first he lightly afflicted the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali,
and  afterward  did more grievously afflict her  by the way of  the sea,
beyond Jordan, in Galilee of the nations.  9:2 The people that walked in
darkness have seen a great light: they that dwell in the land of the shadow
of death, upon them hath the light shined.
The  Gospel of Mark gives a brief account of the same, omitting the
fulfillment of the specific prophecy but alluding to it with “the time is
fulfilled”:
1:14  Now  after  that  John  was  put  in  prison,  Jesus  came  into  Galilee,
preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God, 1:15 And saying, The time is
fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand: repent ye, and believe the
gospel.
The Gospel of Luke tells the same story, but with a different prophetic
fulfillment  cited,  and  with  a  much  more  detailed  depiction  of  his
preaching:
4:14 And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee: and there
went out a fame of him through all the region round about. 4:15 And he
taught in their synagogues, being glorified of all. 4:16 And he came to
Nazareth, where he had been brought up: and, as his custom was, he went

JESUS † The Complete Biography
into the synagogue on the sabbath day, and stood up for to read. 4:17
And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Esaias. And
when he had opened the book, he found the place where it was written,
4:18 The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to
preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted,
to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind,
to set at liberty them that are bruised, 4:19 To preach the acceptable year
of the Lord. 4:20 And he closed the book, and he gave it again to the
minister,  and  sat  down.  And  the  eyes  of  all  them  that  were  in  the
synagogue were fastened on him. 4:21 And he began to say unto them,
This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears.
The verses that these passages referred to as “fulfilled in your ears” are also
from the Book of Isaiah:
61:1 The Spirit of the Lord GOD is upon me; because the LORD hath
anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek; he hath sent me to bind
up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening
of the prison to them that are bound; 61:2 To proclaim the acceptable year
of the LORD.
Also alluded to may be these related verses from the same prophet:
29:18 And in that day shall the deaf hear the words of the book, and the
eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity, and out of darkness.
35:5 Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf
shall be unstopped. 35:6 Then shall the lame man leap as an hart, and the
tongue of the dumb sing: for in the wilderness shall waters break out, and
streams in the desert.
42:5  Thus  saith  God  the  LORD,  he  that  created  the  heavens,  and
stretched them out; he that spread forth the earth, and that which cometh
out of it; he that giveth breath unto the people upon it, and spirit to them
that walk therein: 42:6 I the LORD have called thee in righteousness, and
will hold thine hand, and will keep thee, and give thee for a covenant of the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
people, for a light of the Gentiles; 42:7 To open the blind eyes, to bring
out the prisoners from the prison, and them that sit in darkness out of the
prison house.
58:5 Is it such a fast that I have chosen? a day for a man to afflict his soul?
is it to bow down his head as a bulrush, and to spread sackcloth and ashes
under him? wilt thou call this a fast, and an acceptable day to the LORD?
58:6  Is  not  this  the  fast  that  I  have  chosen?  to  loose  the  bands  of
wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free,
and that ye break every yoke? 58:7 Is it not to deal thy bread to the
hungry, and that thou bring the poor that are cast out to thy house? when
thou seest the naked, that thou cover him; and that thou hide not thyself
from thine own flesh? 58:8 Then shall thy light break forth as the morning,
and thine health shall spring forth speedily: and thy righteousness shall go
before thee; the glory of the LORD shall be thy reward.
According to the synoptic Gospels, the theme of Jesus’ preaching was
repentance.  The Gospel of Luke documents several other instances in
which Jesus laid stress on the importance of repentance:
13:2  And  Jesus  answering  said  unto  them,  Suppose  ye  that  these
Galilaeans were sinners above all the Galilaeans, because they suffered
such things? 13:3 I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise
perish.  13:4 Or those eighteen, upon whom the tower in Siloam fell, and
slew them, think ye that they were sinners above all men that dwelt in
Jerusalem? 13:5 I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise
perish.
15:7 I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that
repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons, which need no
repentance.  15:8 Either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose
one  piece,  doth  not  light  a  candle,  and  sweep  the  house,  and  seek
diligently till she find it? 15:9 And when she hath found it, she calleth her
friends and her neighbours together, saying, Rejoice with me; for I have
found the piece which I had lost.  15:10 Likewise, I say unto you, there is joy

JESUS † The Complete Biography
in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth.  15:10
Likewise, I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God
over one sinner that repenteth.
17:3 Take heed to yourselves: If thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke
him; and if he repent, forgive him.  17:4 And if he trespass against thee
seven times in a day, and seven times in a day turn again to thee, saying, I
repent; thou shalt forgive him.
Repentance is a theme encountered in the Torah, Neviim and Ketuvim,
and not all of these references are relevant to the calls to repentance from
John and Jesus.  In one verse of the Torah and one in the Ketuvim,
repentance is described as a distinctive attribute of man.  In the Torah,
YHWH tells Balaam to say to Balak (Bemidbar/Numbers 23:19): “God is
not a man, that He should lie; neither the son of man, that He should
repent: when He hath said, will He not do it? or when He hath spoken, will
He not make it good?”   And in the Ketuvim, the First Book of Shmuel (1
Samuel 15:29) this distinction is likewise set forth by the prophet Shmuel:
“And also the Glory of Israel will not lie nor repent; for He is not a man,
that He should repent.”
The Book of Job (Iyov) speaks of the repentance of the individual man:
42:1 Then Job answered the LORD, and said:  42:2 I know that Thou canst
do every thing, and that no purpose can be withholden from Thee. 42:3
Who is this that hideth counsel without knowledge?  Therefore have I
uttered that which I understood not, things too wonderful for me, which I
knew not.  42:4 Hear, I beseech Thee, and I will speak; I will demand of
Thee, and declare Thou unto me.  42:5 I had heard of Thee by the hearing
of the ear; but now mine eye seeth Thee;  42:6 Wherefore I abhor my
words, and repent, seeing I am dust and ashes.
The prophet Yirmiyahu (Jeremiah) calls for the Israelites of his time to
repent:
8:4 Moreover thou shalt say unto them: Thus saith the LORD: do men fall,
and not rise up again? Doth one turn away, and not return? 8:5 Why then is
this people of Jerusalem slidden back by a perpetual backsliding? They
hold fast deceit, they refuse to return. 8:6 I attended and listened, but

JESUS † The Complete Biography
they spoke not aright;  no man repenteth him of his wickedness, saying:
'What have I done?' Every one turneth away in his course, as a horse that
rusheth headlong in the battle. 8:7 Yea, the stork in the heaven knoweth
her appointed times; and the turtle and the swallow and the crane observe
the time of their coming; but My people know not the ordinance of the
LORD. 8:8 How do ye say: 'We are wise, and the Law of the LORD is with
us'? Lo, certainly in vain hath wrought the vain pen of the scribes. 8:9 The
wise men are ashamed, they are dismayed and taken; lo, they have rejected
the word of the LORD; and what wisdom is in them?
The Gospel of John continues to describe his travels in the Galilee:
4:45 Then when he was come into Galilee, the Galilaeans received him,
having seen all the things that he did at Jerusalem at the feast: for they
also went unto the feast. 4:46 So Jesus came again into Cana of Galilee,
where he made the water wine. And there was a certain nobleman, whose
son was sick at Capernaum. 4:47 When he heard that Jesus was come out
of Judaea into Galilee, he went unto him, and besought him that he would
come down, and heal his son: for he was at the point of death. 4:48 Then
said Jesus unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will not believe.
4:49 The nobleman saith unto him, Sir, come down ere my child die. 4:50
Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way; thy son liveth. And the man believed the
word that Jesus had spoken unto him, and he went his way. 4:51 And as he
was now going down, his servants met him, and told him, saying, Thy son
liveth. 4:52 Then enquired he of them the hour when he began to amend.
And they said unto him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.
4:53 So the father knew that it was at the same hour, in the which Jesus
said unto him, Thy son liveth: and himself believed, and his whole house.
4:54 This is again the second miracle that Jesus did, when he was come out
of Judaea into Galilee.
The Gospel of Matthew indicates that having collected a few disciples,
Jesus straight away “went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues”:
4:23 And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and
preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all manner of sickness

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and all manner of disease among the people.  4:24 And his fame went
throughout all Syria: and they brought unto him all sick people that were
taken with divers diseases and torments, and those which were possessed
with devils, and those which were lunatick, and those that had the palsy;
and he healed them.  4:25 And there followed him great multitudes of
people from Galilee, and from Tetrarchy of Philip, and from Jerusalem,
and from Judaea, and from beyond Jordan.
The  Gospel of Mark indicates that Jesus taught in other synagogues
besides the one in Capernaum throughout the region:
1:39 And he preached in their synagogues throughout all Galilee, and cast
out devils.
The Gospel of Luke indicates the same:
4:14 And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee: and there
went out a fame of him through all the region round about.  4:15 And he
taught in their synagogues, being glorified of all.
The Gospel of Matthew describes the healing of a leper:
8:2 And, behold, there came a leper and worshipped him, saying, Lord, if
thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.  8:3 And Jesus put forth his hand, and
touched him, saying, I will; be thou clean. And immediately his leprosy was
cleansed.  8:4 And Jesus saith unto him, See thou tell no man; but go thy
way, shew thyself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded,
for a testimony unto them.
The Gospel of Mark tells the same story:
1:40 And there came a leper to him, beseeching him, and kneeling down to
him, and saying unto him, If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.  1:41 And
Jesus, moved with compassion, put forth his hand, and touched him, and
saith unto him, I will; be thou clean.  1:42 And as soon as he had spoken,
immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was cleansed.  1:43 And
he straitly charged him, and forthwith sent him away; 1:44 And saith unto

JESUS † The Complete Biography
him, See thou say nothing to any man: but go thy way, shew thyself to the
priest, and offer for thy cleansing those things which Moses commanded,
for a testimony unto them. 1:45 But he went out, and began to publish it
much, and to blaze abroad the matter, insomuch that Jesus could no more
openly enter into the city, but was without in desert places: and they came
to him from every quarter.
The Gospel of Matthew refers to the healing of a servant of a Roman
centurion by Jesus in Capernaum:
8:5 And when Jesus was entered into Capernaum, there came unto him a
centurion, beseeching him, 8:6 And saying, Lord, my servant lieth at home
sick of the palsy, grievously tormented.  8:7 And Jesus saith unto him, I will
come and heal him.  8:8 The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not
worthy that thou shouldest come under my roof: but speak the word only,
and my servant shall be healed.  8:9 For I am a man under authority, having
soldiers under me: and I say to this man, Go, and he goeth; and to another,
Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.  8:10
When Jesus heard it, he marvelled, and said to them that followed, Verily I
say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel.  8:11 And I
say unto you, That many shall come from the east and west, and shall sit
down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of heaven.  8:12
But the children of the kingdom shall be cast out into outer darkness:
there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.  8:13 And Jesus said unto the
centurion, Go thy way; and as thou hast believed, so be it done unto thee.
And his servant was healed in the selfsame hour.
The Gospel of Mark records the healing of one sick with palsy but does
not identify the beneficiary of this healing:
2:1 And again he entered into Capernaum after some days; and it was
noised that he was in the house.  2:2 And straightway many were gathered
together, insomuch that there was no room to receive them, no, not so
much as about the door: and he preached the word unto them.  2:3 And
they come unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy, which was borne of
four.  2:4 And when they could not come nigh unto him for the press, they

JESUS † The Complete Biography
uncovered the roof where he was: and when they had broken it up, they let
down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay.  2:5 When Jesus saw their
faith, he said unto the sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee.
According to this account, there were hostile witnesses to this healing, and
they did not approve of his healing by faith:
2:6 But there was certain of the scribes sitting there, and reasoning
in their hearts, 2:7 Why doth this man thus speak blasphemies? who
can forgive sins but God only? 2:8 And immediately when Jesus
perceived in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he
said unto them,  Why reason ye these things in your hearts? 2:9
Whether is it easier to say to the sick of the palsy, Thy sins be
forgiven thee; or to say, Arise, and take up thy bed, and walk? 2:10
But that ye may know that the Son of man hath power on earth to
forgive sins, (he saith to the sick of the palsy,) 2:11 I say unto thee,
Arise, and take up thy bed, and go thy way into thine house.  2:12
And immediately he arose, took up the bed, and went forth before
them all; insomuch that they were all amazed, and glorified God,
saying, We never saw it on this fashion.
Apparently Jesus and his disciples visited the east side of the Lake of
Galilee early on, but there are no accounts of this visit, whereas the latter
two visits are described in detail.  After preaching this long sermon, Jesus
spoke to the multitudes on the shore of the Sea of Galilee, according to the
Gospel of Matthew:
8:18  Now  when  Jesus  saw  great  multitudes  about  him,  he  gave
commandment to depart unto the other side.
Likewise the Gospel of Mark:
2:13 And he went forth again by the sea side; and all the multitude resorted
unto him, and he taught them.
Still in the Galilee, Jesus continues to teach.  We cite the  Gospel of
Matthew:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
17:22 And while they abode in Galilee, Jesus said unto them, The Son of
man shall be betrayed into the hands of men: 17:23 And they shall kill him,
and the third day he shall be raised again. And they were exceeding sorry.
17:24 And when they were come to Capernaum, they that received tribute
money came to Peter, and said, Doth not your master pay tribute? 17:25 He
saith, Yes. And when he was come into the house, Jesus prevented him,
saying, What thinkest thou, Simon? of whom do the kings of the earth take
custom or tribute? of their own children, or of strangers? 17:26 Peter saith
unto him, Of strangers. Jesus saith unto him, Then are the children free.
17:27 Notwithstanding, lest we should offend them, go thou to the sea, and
cast an hook, and take up the fish that first cometh up; and when thou hast
opened his mouth, thou shalt find a piece of money: that take, and give
unto them for me and thee. 18:1 At the same time came the disciples unto
Jesus, saying,  Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? 18:2 And
Jesus called a little child unto him, and set him in the midst of them, 18:3
And said, Verily I say unto you, Except ye be converted, and become as
little  children,  ye  shall  not  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  18:4
Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is
greatest in the kingdom of heaven. 18:5 And whoso shall receive one such
little child in my name receiveth me. 18:6 But whoso shall offend one of
these little ones which believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone
were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the
sea. 18:7 Woe unto the world because of offences! for it must needs be that
offences come; but woe to that man by whom the offence cometh! 18:8
Wherefore if thy hand or thy foot offend thee, cut them off, and cast them
from thee: it is better for thee to enter into life halt or maimed, rather than
having two hands or two feet to be cast into everlasting fire. 18:9 And if
thine eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee: it is better for
thee to enter into life with one eye, rather than having two eyes to be cast
into hell fire. 18:10 Take heed that ye despise not one of these little ones;
for I say unto you, That in heaven their angels do always behold the face
of my Father which is in heaven. 18:11 For the Son of man is come to save
that which was lost. 18:12 How think ye? if a man have an hundred sheep,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and one of them be gone astray, doth he not leave the ninety and nine, and
goeth into the mountains, and seeketh that which is gone astray? 18:13 And
if so be that he find it, verily I say unto you, he rejoiceth more of that
sheep, than of the ninety and nine which went not astray. 18:14 Even so it is
not the will of your Father which is in heaven, that one of these little ones
should perish. 18:15 Moreover if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go
and tell him his fault between thee and him alone: if he shall hear thee, thou
hast gained thy brother. 18:16 But if he will not hear thee, then take with
thee one or two more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every
word may be established. 18:17 And if he shall neglect to hear them, tell it
unto the church: but if he neglect to hear the church, let him be unto thee
as an heathen man and a publican. 18:18 Verily I say unto you, Whatsoever
ye shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever ye shall
loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. 18:19 Again I say unto you, That if
two of you shall agree on earth as touching any thing that they shall ask, it
shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven. 18:20 For where two
or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them.
18:21 Then came Peter to him, and said, Lord, how oft shall my brother sin
against me, and I forgive him? till seven times? 18:22 Jesus saith unto him, I
say not unto thee, Until seven times: but, Until seventy times seven. 18:23
Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain king, which
would take account of his servants. 18:24 And when he had begun to
reckon, one was brought unto him, which owed him ten thousand talents.
18:25 But forasmuch as he had not to pay, his lord commanded him to be
sold, and his wife, and children, and all that he had, and payment to be
made. 18:26 The servant therefore fell down, and worshipped him, saying,
Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. 18:27 Then the lord of
that servant was moved with compassion, and loosed him, and forgave him
the debt. 18:28 But the same servant went out, and found one of his
fellowservants, which owed him an hundred pence: and he laid hands on
him, and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest. 18:29 And
his fellowservant fell down at his feet, and besought him, saying, Have
patience with me, and I will pay thee all. 18:30 And he would not: but went
and cast him into prison, till he should pay the debt. 18:31 So when his

JESUS † The Complete Biography
fellowservants saw what was done, they were very sorry, and came and
told unto their lord all that was done. 18:32 Then his lord, after that he had
called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that
debt, because thou desiredst me: 18:33 Shouldest not thou also have had
compassion on thy fellowservant, even as I had pity on thee? 18:34 And his
lord was wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all
that was due unto him. 18:35 So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also
unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not every one his brother their
trespasses.
The Gospel of Mark has his account of the same teachings:
9:30 And they departed thence, and passed through Galilee; and he would
not that any man should know it. 9:31 For he taught his disciples, and said
unto them, The Son of man is delivered into the hands of men, and they
shall kill him; and after that he is killed, he shall rise the third day. 9:32 But
they understood not that saying, and were afraid to ask him. 9:33 And he
came to Capernaum: and being in the house he asked them, What was it
that ye disputed among yourselves by the way? 9:34 But they held their
peace: for by the way they had disputed among themselves, who should be
the greatest. 9:35 And he sat down, and called the twelve, and saith unto
them, If any man desire to be first, the same shall be last of all, and servant
of all. 9:36 And he took a child, and set him in the midst of them: and when
he had taken him in his arms, he said unto them,  9:37 Whosoever shall
receive one of such children in my name, receiveth me: and whosoever shall
receive  me,  receiveth  not  me,  but  him  that  sent  me. 9:38  And  John
answered him, saying, Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy name,
and he followeth not us: and we forbad him, because he followeth not us.
9:39 But Jesus said, Forbid him not: for there is no man which shall do a
miracle in my name, that can lightly speak evil of me. 9:40 For he that is not
against us is on our part. 9:41 For whosoever shall give you a cup of water
to drink in my name, because ye belong to Christ, verily I say unto you, he
shall not lose his reward. 9:42 And whosoever shall offend one of these
little ones that believe in me, it is better for him that a millstone were
hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea. 9:43 And if thy hand
offend thee, cut it off: it is better for thee to enter into life maimed, than

JESUS † The Complete Biography
having two hands to go into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched:
9:44 Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. 9:45 And if
thy foot offend thee, cut it off: it is better for thee to enter halt into life,
than having two feet to be cast into hell, into the fire that never shall be
quenched: 9:46 Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.
9:47 And if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out: it is better for thee to enter
into the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes to be cast into
hell fire: 9:48 Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. 9:49
For every one shall be salted with fire, and every sacrifice shall be salted
with salt. 9:50 Salt is good: but if the salt have lost his saltness, wherewith
will ye season it? Have salt in yourselves, and have peace one with another.
The  Gospel  of  Luke cites  some  of  these  teachings,  albeit  without
indicating that they were given in the Galilee:
9:46 Then there arose a reasoning among them, which of them should be
greatest. 9:47 And Jesus, perceiving the thought of their heart, took a
child, and set him by him, 9:48 And said unto them, Whosoever shall receive
this  child  in  my  name  receiveth  me:  and  whosoever  shall  receive  me
receiveth him that sent me: for he that is least among you all, the same shall
be great. 9:49 And John answered and said, Master, we saw one casting
out devils in thy name; and we forbad him, because he followeth not with
us. 9:50 And Jesus said unto him, Forbid him not: for he that is not against
us is for us.
The  Gospel  of  John conveys  the  same  teachings,  albeit  with  great
brevity:
13:20  Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that receiveth whomsoever I send
receiveth me; and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me…
13:33 Little children, yet a little while I am with you.
Annointing of the Disciples to be Missionaries
Most likely it is prior to the execution of John, that there comes an event of
great significance, reported in the three synoptic Gospels—Jesus anoints
his followers to carry out his mission on his behalf: first the  Gospel of
Matthew, which is the most detailed on this account:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
9:37 Then saith he unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous, but
the labourers are few; 9:38 Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that
he will send forth labourers into his harvest.  10:1 And when he had called
unto him his twelve disciples, he gave them power against unclean spirits, to
cast them out, and to heal all manner of sickness and all manner of disease.
10:2 Now the names of the twelve apostles are these; The first, Simon, who
is called Peter, and Andrew his brother; James the son of Zebedee, and
John his brother; 10:3 Philip, and Bartholomew; Thomas, and Matthew the
publican; James the son of Alphaeus, and Lebbaeus, whose surname was
Thaddaeus;  10:4  Simon  the  Canaanite,  and  Judas  Iscariot,  who  also
betrayed him.
The Gospel of Mark tells the same story:
6:7 And he called unto him the twelve, and began to send them forth by two
and two; and gave them power over unclean spirits; 6:8 And commanded
them that they should take nothing for their journey, save a staff only; no
scrip, no bread, no money in their purse: 6:9 But be shod with sandals; and
not put on two coats.  6:10 And he said unto them, In what place soever ye
enter into an house, there abide till ye depart from that place.  6:11 And
whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear you, when ye depart thence,
shake off the dust under your feet for a testimony against them. Verily I
say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrha in the
day of judgment, than for that city.
The Gospel of Luke is the most parsimonious in detail in this case:
9:1 Then he called his twelve disciples together, and gave them power and
authority over all devils, and to cure diseases.  9:2 And he sent them to
preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick.  9:3 And he said unto
them,  Take nothing for your journey, neither staves, nor scrip, neither
bread, neither money; neither have two coats apiece.  9:4 And whatsoever
house ye enter into, there abide, and thence depart.  9:5 And whosoever
will not receive you, when ye go out of that city, shake off the very dust
from your feet for a testimony against them.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The discourse of Jesus as he sent off his twelve disciples to preach and heal
is recorded in the Gospel of Matthew:
10:5 These twelve Jesus sent forth, and commanded them, saying, Go not
into the way of the Gentiles, and into any city of the Samaritans enter ye
not: 10:6 But go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.  10:7 And as
ye go, preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand.  10:8 Heal the
sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out devils: freely ye have
received, freely give.  10:9 Provide neither gold, nor silver, nor brass in your
purses, 10:10 Nor scrip for your journey, neither two coats, neither shoes,
nor yet staves: for the workman is worthy of his meat.  10:11 And into
whatsoever city or town ye shall enter, enquire who in it is worthy; and
there abide till ye go thence.  10:12 And when ye come into an house, salute
it.  10:13 And if the house be worthy, let your peace come upon it: but if it
be not worthy, let your peace return to you.  10:14 And whosoever shall not
receive you, nor hear your words, when ye depart out of that house or
city, shake off the dust of your feet.  10:15 Verily I say unto you, It shall be
more  tolerable  for  the  land  of  Sodom  and  Gomorrha  in  the  day  of
judgment, than for that city.  10:16 Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the
midst of wolves: be ye therefore wise as serpents, and harmless as doves.
10:17 But beware of men: for they will deliver you up to the councils, and
they will scourge you in their synagogues; 10:18 And ye shall be brought
before governors and kings for my sake, for a testimony against them and
the Gentiles.  10:19 But when they deliver you up, take no thought how or
what ye shall speak: for it shall be given you in that same hour what ye shall
speak.  10:20 For it is not ye that speak, but the Spirit of your Father
which speaketh in you.  10:21 And the brother shall deliver up the brother
to death, and the father the child: and the children shall rise up against
their parents, and cause them to be put to death.  10:22 And ye shall be
hated of all men for my name's sake: but he that endureth to the end shall
be saved.  10:23 But when they persecute you in this city, flee ye into
another: for verily I say unto you, Ye shall not have gone over the cities of
Israel, till the Son of man be come.  10:24 The disciple is not above his
master, nor the servant above his lord.  10:25 It is enough for the disciple

JESUS † The Complete Biography
that he be as his master, and the servant as his lord. If they have called the
master of the house Beelzebub, how much more shall they call them of his
household? 10:26 Fear them not therefore: for there is nothing covered,
that shall not be revealed; and hid, that shall not be known.  10:27 What I
tell you in darkness, that speak ye in light: and what ye hear in the ear, that
preach ye upon the housetops.  10:28 And fear not them which kill the
body, but are not able to kill the soul: but rather fear him which is able to
destroy both soul and body in hell.  10:29 Are not two sparrows sold for a
farthing? and one of them shall not fall on the ground without your Father.
10:30 But the very hairs of your head are all numbered.  10:31 Fear ye not
therefore, ye are of more value than many sparrows.  10:32 Whosoever
therefore shall confess me before men, him will I confess also before my
Father which is in heaven.  10:33 But whosoever shall deny me before men,
him will I also deny before my Father which is in heaven.  10:34 Think not
that I am come to send peace on earth: I came not to send peace, but a
sword.  10:35 For I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and
the daughter against her mother, and the daughter in law against her
mother in law.  10:36 And a man's foes shall be they of his own household.
10:37 He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me:
and he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.  10:38
And he that taketh not his cross, and followeth after me, is not worthy of
me.  10:39 He that findeth his life shall lose it: and he that loseth his life for
my sake shall find it.  10:40 He that receiveth you receiveth me, and he that
receiveth me receiveth him that sent me.  10:41 He that receiveth a prophet
in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward; and he that
receiveth a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a
righteous man's reward.  10:42 And whosoever shall give to drink unto one
of these little ones a cup of cold water only in the name of a disciple, verily
I say unto you, he shall in no wise lose his reward.  11:1 And it came to pass,
when Jesus had made an end of commanding his twelve disciples, he
departed thence to teach and to preach in their cities.
Jesus sends out disciples

JESUS † The Complete Biography
According to the synoptic gospels, Jesus sent out 12 disciples, and the
question is when did he do that.  He could have done so before his journey
to Caesaria Philippi, and before he attended a festival in Jerusalem for the
first time.  But we are going to surmise that they accompanied him on
various journeys before he sent them as envoys with his message.  We have
positioned this act just prior to him receiving an envoy from John the
Baptist in prison, as this is the sequence in the Gospel of Matthew, which
preserves the most complete discourse of Jesus delivered to the disciples
prior to their depature.  Hence, we begin with the Gospel of Matthew:
5:1 And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain: and when he was
set, his disciples came unto him…
9:35 And Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their
synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every
sickness and every disease among the people. 9:36 But when he saw the
multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them, because they fainted,
and were scattered abroad, as sheep having no shepherd. 9:37 Then saith
he unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous, but the labourers are
few; 9:38 Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth
labourers into his harvest. 10:1 And when he had called unto him his twelve
disciples, he gave them power against unclean spirits, to cast them out, and
to heal all manner of sickness and all manner of disease. 10:2 Now the
names of the twelve apostles are these; The first, Simon, who is called
Peter, and Andrew his brother; James the son of Zebedee, and John his
brother; 10:3 Philip, and Bartholomew; Thomas, and Matthew the publican;
James  the  son  of  Alphaeus,  and  Lebbaeus,  whose  surname  was
Thaddaeus;  10:4  Simon  the  Canaanite,  and  Judas  Iscariot,  who  also
betrayed him. 10:5 These twelve Jesus sent forth, and commanded them,
saying,  Go not into the way of the Gentiles, and into any city of the
Samaritans enter ye not: 10:6 But go rather to the lost sheep of the house
of Israel. 10:7 And as ye go, preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at
hand. 10:8 Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out devils:
freely ye have received, freely give.  10:9 Provide neither gold, nor silver,
nor brass in your purses, 10:10 Nor scrip for your journey, neither two
coats, neither shoes, nor yet staves: for the workman is worthy of his meat.
10:11 And into whatsoever city or town ye shall enter,

enquire who in it is


worthy; and there abide till ye go thence. 10:12 And when ye come into an

JESUS † The Complete Biography
house, salute it. 10:13 And if the house be worthy, let your peace come
upon it: but if it be not worthy, let your peace return to you. 10:14 And
whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear your words, when ye depart out
of that house or city, shake off the dust of your feet. 10:15 Verily I say unto
you, It shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrha in the
day of judgment, than for that city.  10:16 Behold, I send you forth as
sheep in the midst of wolves129: be ye therefore wise as serpents, and
harmless as doves.
10:17 But beware of men: for they will deliver you up to the councils, and
they will scourge you in their synagogues; 10:18 And ye shall be brought
before governors and kings for my sake, for a testimony against them and
the Gentiles.130 10:19 But when they deliver you up, take no thought how or
what ye shall speak: for it shall be given you in that same hour what ye shall
speak. 10:20 For it is not ye that speak, but the Spirit of your Father which
speaketh in you. 10:21 And the brother shall deliver up the brother to
death, and the father the child: and the children shall rise up against their
parents, and cause them to be put to death. 10:22 And ye shall be hated of
all men for my name's sake: but he that endureth to the end shall be
saved.131 10:23 But when they persecute you in this city, flee ye into another:
for verily I say unto you, Ye shall not have gone over the cities of Israel, till
the Son of man be come. 10:24 The disciple is not above his master, nor
the servant above his lord. 10:25 It is enough for the disciple that he be as
his master, and the servant as his lord. If they have called the master of the
house Beelzebub, how much more shall they call them of his household?
The parallels to this account in the Gospel of Mark are fragmentary and
scattered all over and they will be cited according to where they match,
rather than in the order in which they appear:
3:13 And he goeth up into a mountain, and calleth unto him whom he would:
and they came unto him. 3:14 And he ordained twelve, that they should be
with him, and that he might send them forth to preach, 3:15 And to have
power  to  heal  sicknesses,  and  to  cast  out  devils:  3:16  And  Simon  he
surnamed  Peter;  3:17  And  James  the  son  of  Zebedee,  and  John  the
brother of James; and he surnamed them Boanerges, which is, The sons of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
thunder: 3:18 And Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and
Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the
Canaanite, 3:19 And Judas Iscariot, which also betrayed him: and they went
into an house…
6:6 And he marvelled because of their unbelief. And he went round about
the villages, teaching.  6:7 And he called unto him the twelve, and began to
send them forth by two and two; and gave them power over unclean spirits;
6:8 And commanded them that they should take nothing for their journey,
save a staff only; no scrip, no bread, no money in their purse: 6:9 But be
shod with sandals; and not put on two coats. 6:10 And he said unto them,
In what place soever ye enter into an house, there abide till ye depart from
that place. 6:11 And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear you, when ye
depart thence, shake off the dust under your feet for a testimony against
them. Verily I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for Sodom and
Gomorrha in the day of judgment, than for that city. 6:12 And they went
out, and preached that men should repent. 6:13 And they cast out many
devils, and anointed with oil many that were sick, and healed them…
6:30  And the apostles gathered themselves together unto Jesus, and told
him all things, both what they had done, and what they had taught.
6:31  And he said unto them, Come ye yourselves apart into a desert place,
and rest a while: for there were many coming and going, and they had no
leisure so much as to eat. 6:32  And they departed into a desert place by
ship privately. 6:33  And the people saw them departing, and many knew
him, and ran afoot thither out of all cities, and outwent them, and came
together unto him…
13:9 But take heed to yourselves: for they shall deliver you up to councils;
and in the synagogues ye shall be beaten: and ye shall be brought before
rulers and kings for my sake, for a testimony against them. 13:10 And the
gospel must first be published among all nations. 13:11 But when they shall
lead you, and deliver you up, take no thought beforehand what ye shall
speak, neither do ye premeditate: but whatsoever shall be given you in that
hour, that speak ye: for it is not ye that speak, but the Holy Ghost. 13:12
Now the brother shall betray the brother to death, and the father the son;
and children shall rise up against their parents, and shall cause them to be

JESUS † The Complete Biography
put to death. 13:13 And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake: but
he that shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved.
The passages in the Gospel of Luke which refer to the sending out of the
disciples are just as fragmented and scattered:
6:12 And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a mountain to
pray, and continued all night in prayer to God. 6:13 And when it was day, he
called unto him his disciples: and of them he chose twelve, whom also he
named apostles; 6:14 Simon132, (whom he also named Peter,) and Andrew
his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew, 6:15 Matthew and
Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon called Zelotes, 6:16 And
Judas  the  brother  of  James,  and  Judas  Iscariot,  which  also  was  the
traitor…
8:1 And it came to pass afterward, that he went throughout every city and
village, preaching and shewing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God: and
the twelve were with him…
9:1 Then he called his twelve disciples together, and gave them power and
authority over all devils, and to cure diseases. 9:2 And he sent them to
preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick. 9:3 And he said unto
them,  Take nothing for your journey, neither staves, nor scrip, neither
bread, neither money; neither have two coats apiece. 9:4 And whatsoever
house ye enter into, there abide, and thence depart. 9:5 And whosoever
will not receive you, when ye go out of that city, shake off the very dust
from your feet for a testimony against them. 9:6 And they departed, and
went through the towns, preaching the gospel, and healing every where…
12:11 And when they bring you unto the synagogues, and unto magistrates,
and powers, take ye no thought how or what thing ye shall answer, or what
ye shall say: 12:12 For the Holy Ghost shall teach you in the same hour what
ye ought to say…
21:12 But before all these, they shall lay their hands on you, and persecute
you, delivering you up to the synagogues, and into prisons, being brought
before kings and rulers for my name's sake. 21:13 And it shall turn to you
for a testimony. 21:14 Settle it therefore in your hearts, not to meditate
before what ye shall answer: 21:15 For I will give you a mouth and wisdom,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist. 21:16 And
ye shall be betrayed both by parents, and brethren, and kinsfolks, and
friends; and some of you shall they cause to be put to death. 21:17 And ye
shall be hated of all men for my name's sake. 21:18 But there shall not an
hair of your head perish.133 21:19 In your patience possess ye your souls.
The last section of this discourse of Jesus to his disciples upon sending
them forth is found in the Gospel of Matthew and the Gospel of Luke,
but there are only scattered quotes from it in the Gospel of Mark.  We
will begin again with the Gospel of Matthew:
10:26 Fear them not therefore: for there is nothing covered, that shall not
be revealed; and hid, that shall not be known. 10:27 What I tell you in
darkness, that speak ye in light: and what ye hear in the ear, that preach
ye upon the housetops. 10:28 And fear not them which kill the body, but
are not able to kill the soul: but rather fear him which is able to destroy
both soul and body in hell. 10:29 Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing?
and one of them shall not fall on the ground without your Father. 10:30 But
the very hairs of your head are all numbered. 10:31 Fear ye not therefore,
ye are of more value than many sparrows. 10:32 Whosoever therefore shall
confess me before men, him will I confess also before my Father which is in
heaven. 10:33 But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny
before my Father which is in heaven. 10:34 Think not that I am come to
send peace on earth: I came not to send peace, but a sword. 10:35 For I am
come to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against
her mother, and the daughter in law against her mother in law. 10:36 And a
man's foes shall be they of his own household. 10:37 He that loveth father
or mother more than me is not worthy of me: and he that loveth son or
daughter more than me is not worthy of me. 10:38 And he that taketh not
his cross, and followeth after me, is not worthy of me. 10:39 He that findeth
his life shall lose it: and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it.
13410:40 He that receiveth you receiveth me, and he that receiveth me
receiveth him that sent me.135 10:41 He that receiveth a prophet in the name
of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward; and he that receiveth a
righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous

JESUS † The Complete Biography
man's reward. 10:42 And whosoever shall give to drink unto one of these
little ones a cup of cold water only in the name of a disciple, verily I say
unto you, he shall in no wise lose his reward.136 11:1 And it came to pass, when
Jesus had made an end of commanding his twelve disciples, he departed
thence to teach and to preach in their cities.
The  Gospel of Luke continues in similar fashion, but begins with a
reverse image of the statement in the Gospel of Matthew:
10:16 He that heareth you heareth me; and he that despiseth you despiseth
me; and he that despiseth me despiseth him that sent me…
12:2 For there is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed; neither hid,
that shall not be known. 12:3 Therefore whatsoever ye have spoken in
darkness shall be heard in the light; and that which ye have spoken in the
ear in closets shall be proclaimed upon the housetops. 12:4 And I say unto
you my friends, Be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after that
have no more that they can do. 12:5 But I will forewarn you whom ye shall
fear: Fear him, which after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell; yea, I
say unto you, Fear him. 12:6 Are not five sparrows sold for two farthings,
and not one of them is forgotten before God? 12:7 But even the very hairs
of your head are all numbered. Fear not therefore: ye are of more value
than many sparrows. 12:8 Also I say unto you, Whosoever shall confess me
before men, him shall the Son of man also confess before the angels of
God: 12:9 But he that denieth me before men shall be denied before the
angels of God. 13712:10 And whosoever shall speak a word against the Son
of man, it shall be forgiven him: but unto him that blasphemeth against the
Holy Ghost it shall not be forgiven…
12:51 Suppose ye that I am come to give peace on earth? I tell you, Nay; but
rather division: 12:52 For from henceforth there shall be five in one house
divided, three against two, and two against three. 12:53 The father shall be
divided against the son, and the son against the father; the mother against
the daughter, and the daughter against the mother; the mother in law
against her daughter in law, and the daughter in law against her mother in
law…

JESUS † The Complete Biography
14:26 If any man come to me, and hate not his father, and mother, and wife,
and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he
cannot be my disciple. 14:27 And whosoever doth not bear his cross, and
come after me, cannot be my disciple…
17:33 Whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it; and whosoever shall
lose his life shall preserve it.138
The  Gospel  of  Luke also  records  that  Jesus  sent  out  seventy  other
disciples:
10:1 After these things the LORD appointed other seventy also, and sent
them two and two before his face into every city and place, whither he
himself would come. 10:2 Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is
great,  but the labourers  are few:  pray ye therefore the Lord of  the
harvest, that he would send forth labourers into his harvest. 10:3 Go your
ways: behold, I send you forth as lambs among wolves. 10:4 Carry neither
purse, nor scrip, nor shoes: and salute no man by the way. 10:5 And into
whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace be to this house. 10:6 And if
the son of peace be there, your peace shall rest upon it: if not, it shall turn
to you again.10:7 And in the same house remain, eating and drinking such
things as they give: for the labourer is worthy of his hire. Go not from
house to house. 10:8 And into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive
you, eat such things as are set before you: 10:9 And heal the sick that are
therein, and say unto them, The kingdom of God is come nigh unto you.
10:10 But into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you not, go your
ways out into the streets of the same, and say, 10:11 Even the very dust of
your  city,  which  cleaveth  on  us,  we  do  wipe  off  against  you:
notwithstanding be ye sure of this, that the kingdom of God is come nigh
unto you. 10:12 But I say unto you, that it shall be more tolerable in that
day for Sodom, than for that city. 10:13 Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto
thee, Bethsaida! for if the mighty works had been done in Tyre and Sidon,
which have been done in you, they had a great while ago repented, sitting
in sackcloth and ashes. 10:14 But it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and
Sidon at the judgment, than for you. 10:15 And thou, Capernaum, which art
exalted to heaven, shalt be thrust down to hell. 10:16 He that heareth you

JESUS † The Complete Biography
heareth  me;  and  he  that  despiseth  you  despiseth  me;  and  he  that
despiseth me despiseth him that sent me. 10:17 And the seventy returned
again with joy, saying, Lord, even the devils are subject unto us through
thy name. 10:18 And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from
heaven. 10:19 Behold, I give unto you power to tread on serpents and
scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy: and nothing shall by any
means hurt you. 10:20 Notwithstanding in this rejoice not, that the spirits
are subject unto you; but rather rejoice, because your names are written in
heaven. 10:21 In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit, and said, I thank thee, O
Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hid these things from the
wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes: even so, Father; for
so it seemed good in thy sight. 10:22 All things are delivered to me of my
Father: and no man knoweth who the Son is, but the Father; and who the
Father is, but the Son, and he to whom the Son will reveal him.139 10:23 And
he turned him unto his disciples, and said privately, Blessed are the eyes
which see the things that ye see: 10:24 For I tell you, that many prophets
and kings have desired to see those things which ye see, and have not seen
them; and to hear those things which ye hear, and have not heard them.
The envoys from John in prison
While John is in prison, he hears from his followers that Jesus is baptizing,
and, beyond that, he is healing and preaching the coming of the kingdom
of God.  This is recorded in the Gospel of Matthew:
11:2 Now when John had heard in the prison the works of Christ, he sent
two of his disciples, 11:3 And said unto him, Art thou he that should come,
or do we look for another? 11:4 Jesus answered and said unto them, Go
and shew John again those things which ye do hear and see: 11:5 The blind
receive their sight, and the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf
hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached to
them.  11:6 And blessed is he, whosoever shall not be offended in me.
This story is found also in the Gospel of Luke:
7:16 And there came a fear on all: and they glorified God, saying, That a
great prophet is risen up among us; and, That God hath visited his people.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
7:17  And  this  rumour  of  him  went  forth  throughout  all  Judaea,  and
throughout all the region round about. 7:18 And the disciples of John
shewed him of all these things. 7:19 And John calling unto him two of his
disciples sent them to Jesus, saying, Art thou he that should come? or look
we for another? 7:20 When the men were come unto him, they said, John
Baptist hath sent us unto thee, saying, Art thou he that should come? or
look we for another? 7:21 And in that same hour he cured many of their
infirmities and plagues, and of evil spirits; and unto many that were blind he
gave sight. 7:22 Then Jesus answering said unto them, Go your way, and
tell John what things ye have seen and heard; how that the blind see, the
lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, to
the poor the gospel is preached. 7:23 And blessed is he, whosoever shall
not be offended in me.
This may appear to be an odd story, considering the many attestations to
John being aware of the spiritual station of Jesus, including those found
both in the Gospel of Matthew and the Gospel of John.  Was John unsure
of the station of Jesus, after having affirmed that station at the time of his
baptism?  It is likely that John sent his followers to Jesus so that they
might hear from his lips what John already knew to be the truth—that
Jesus was the Davidic messiah, “he that should come”.  They were, after
all, followers of John, loyal to him, and only by hearing directly from Jesus
could they recognize him as the one prophesied by John, and thereby
become the disciples of the messiah himself.
The  Gospel of Matthew reports a discourse given by Jesus about his
cousin John immediately upon the departure of John’s envoys:
11:7  And  as  they  departed,  Jesus  began  to  say  unto  the  multitudes
concerning John,  What went ye out into the wilderness to see? A reed
shaken with the wind? 11:8 But what went ye out for to see? A man clothed
in soft raiment? behold, they that wear soft clothing are in kings' houses.
11:9 But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? yea, I say unto you, and
more than a prophet. 11:10 For this is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I
send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before
thee. 11:11 Verily I say unto you, Among them that are born of women there
hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist: notwithstanding he that is
least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. 11:12 And from the days of
John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven suffereth violence, and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the  violent  take  it  by  force.  11:13  For  all  the  prophets  and  the  law
prophesied until John. 11:14 And if ye will receive it, this is Elias [Elijah],
which was for to come. 11:15 He that hath ears to hear, let him hear. 11:16 But
whereunto shall I liken this generation? It is like unto children sitting in the
markets, and calling unto their fellows, 11:17 And saying, We have piped unto
you, and ye have not danced; we have mourned unto you, and ye have not
lamented.
The same story is told in the Gospel of Luke:
7:24 And when the messengers of John were departed, he began to speak
unto the people concerning John, What went ye out into the wilderness for
to see? A reed shaken with the wind? 7:25 But what went ye out for to see?
A  man  clothed  in  soft  raiment?  Behold,  they  which  are  gorgeously
apparelled, and live delicately, are in kings' courts. 7:26 But what went ye
out for to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you, and much more than a
prophet. 7:27 This is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger
before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee. 7:28 For I say
unto you, Among those that are born of women there is not a greater
prophet than John the Baptist: but he that is least in the kingdom of God
is  greater  than  he. 7:29  And  all  the  people  that  heard  him,  and  the
publicans, justified God, being baptized with the baptism of John.
In the Gospel of Matthew, the discourse continues:
11:18 For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He hath a
devil.  11:19 The Son of man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold
a man gluttonous, and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners. But
wisdom is justified of her children.  11:20 Then began he to upbraid the
cities wherein most of his mighty works were done, because they repented
not: 11:21 Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the
mighty works, which were done in you, had been done in Tyre and Sidon,
they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.  11:22 But I say
unto you, It shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the day of
judgment, than for you.  11:23 And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted unto
heaven, shalt be brought down to hell: for if the mighty works, which have

JESUS † The Complete Biography
been done in thee, had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until
this day.  11:24 But I say unto you, That it shall be more tolerable for the
land of Sodom in the day of judgment, than for thee.  11:25 At that time
Jesus answered and said,  I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and
earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and
hast revealed them unto babes.  11:26 Even so, Father: for so it seemed
good in thy sight.  11:27 All things are delivered unto me of my Father: and
no man knoweth the Son, but the Father; neither knoweth any man the
Father, save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal him.  11:28
Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you
rest.  11:29 Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and
lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.  11:30 For my yoke is
easy, and my burden is light.
The execution of John the Baptist
While there are no particular indications in the Gospels that will enable us
to date the beheading of John, we will see shortly that there are good
reasons to believe that it occurred during the early period of his ministry.
Herod Antipas wanted to silence John permanently, but he was afraid of
executing him because the people considered John to be a prophet and
Herod  didn’t  want  trouble.   Josephus  describes  this  situation  in
“Antiquities of the Jews” (18.5.2 116-119):
“Now some of the Jews thought that the destruction of Herod's army came
from God, and was a very just punishment for what he did against John
called the baptist  [the dipper]. For Herod had him killed, although he was
a good man and had urged the Jews to exert themselves to virtue, both as
to justice toward one another and reverence towards God, and having
done so join together in washing. For immersion in water, it was clear to him,
could not be used for the forgiveness of sins, but as a sanctification of the
body, and only if the soul was already thoroughly purified by right actions.
And when others massed about him, for they were very greatly moved by
his words, Herod, who feared that such strong influence over the people
might carry to a revolt -- for they seemed ready to do any thing he should

JESUS † The Complete Biography
advise -- believed it much better to move now than later have it raise a
rebellion and engage him in actions he would regret.
And  so  John,  out  of  Herod's  suspiciousness,  was  sent  in  chains  to
Machaerus, the fort previously mentioned, and there put to death; but it
was the opinion of the Jews that out of retribution for John God willed the
destruction of the army so as to afflict Herod.”
The shortest report of the execution of John among the canonical Gospels
is found in the Gospel of Luke:
9:9 And Herod said, John have I beheaded...
The Gospel of Matthew tells the story of how John came to be martyred
with some details:
14:6  But  when  Herod's  birthday  was  kept,  the  daughter  of  Herodias
danced before them, and pleased Herod.  14:7 Whereupon he promised
with an oath to give her whatsoever she would ask.  14:8 And she, being
before instructed of her mother, said, Give me here John Baptist's head in
a charger.  14:9 And the king was sorry: nevertheless for the oath's sake,
and them which sat with him at meat, he commanded it to be given her.
14:10 And he sent, and beheaded John in the prison.  14:11 And his head
was brought in a charger, and given to the damsel: and she brought it to
her mother.  14:12 And his disciples came, and took up the body, and
buried it, and went and told Jesus.
The Gospel of Mark tells this story as well, but with more rather than
less detail:
6:19 Therefore Herodias had a quarrel against him, and would have killed
him; but she could not: 6:20 For Herod feared John, knowing that he was a
just man and an holy, and observed him; and when he heard him, he did
many things, and heard him gladly.  6:21 And when a convenient day was
come,  that  Herod  on  his  birthday  made  a  supper  to  his  lords,  high
captains, and chief estates of Galilee; 6:22 And when the daughter of the
said Herodias came in, and danced, and pleased Herod and them that sat
with him, the king said unto the damsel, Ask of me whatsoever thou wilt,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and I will give it thee.  6:23 And he sware unto her, Whatsoever thou shalt
ask of me, I will give it thee, unto the half of my kingdom.  6:24 And she
went forth, and said unto her mother, What shall I ask? And she said, The
head of John the Baptist.  6:25 And she came in straightway with haste
unto the king, and asked, saying, I will that thou give me by and by in a
charger the head of John the Baptist.  6:26 And the king was exceeding
sorry; yet for his oath's sake, and for their sakes which sat with him, he
would not reject her.  6:27 And immediately the king sent an executioner,
and commanded his head to be brought: and he went and beheaded him in
the prison, 6:28 And brought his head in a charger, and gave it to the
damsel: and the damsel gave it to her mother.  6:29 And when his disciples
heard of it, they came and took up his corpse, and laid it in a tomb.  6:30
And the apostles gathered themselves together unto Jesus, and told him
all things, both what they had done, and what they had taught.  6:31 And he
said unto them, Come ye yourselves apart into a desert place, and rest a
while: for there were many coming and going, and they had no leisure so
much as to eat.  6:32 And they departed into a desert place by ship
privately.
It was then that the inevitable occurred…John was beheaded.  We will
begin with the account in the Gospel of Matthew:
14:3 For Herod had laid hold on John, and bound him, and put him in
prison for Herodias' sake, his brother Philip's wife. 14:4 For John said unto
him, It is not lawful for thee to have her. 14:5 And when he would have put
him to death, he feared the multitude, because they counted him as a
prophet.  14:6  But  when  Herod's  birthday  was  kept,  the  daughter  of
Herodias danced before them, and pleased Herod. 14:7 Whereupon he
promised with an oath140 to give her whatsoever she would ask. 14:8 And
she, being before instructed of  her mother,  said,  Give me here  John
Baptist's head in a charger. 14:9 And the king was sorry: nevertheless for
the oath's sake, and them which sat with him at meat, he commanded it to
be given her. 14:10 And he sent, and beheaded John in the prison. 14:11 And
his head was brought in a charger, and given to the damsel: and she

JESUS † The Complete Biography
brought it to her mother. 14:12 And his disciples came, and took up the
body, and buried it, and went and told Jesus.
The Gospel of Mark tells the same story, but again in more detail:
6:19 Therefore Herodias had a quarrel against him141, and would have killed
him; but she could not: 6:20 For Herod feared John, knowing that he was a
just man and an holy, and observed him; and when he heard him, he did
many things, and heard him gladly. 6:21 And when a convenient day was
come,  that  Herod  on  his  birthday  made  a  supper  to  his  lords,  high
captains, and chief estates of Galilee; 6:22 And when the daughter of the
said Herodias came in, and danced, and pleased Herod and them that sat
with him, the king said unto the damsel, Ask of me whatsoever thou wilt,
and I will give it thee. 6:23 And he sware unto her, Whatsoever thou shalt
ask of me, I will give it thee, unto the half of my kingdom. 6:24 And she went
forth, and said unto her mother, What shall I ask? And she said, The head
of John the Baptist. 6:25 And she came in straightway with haste unto the
king, and asked, saying, I will that thou give me by and by in a charger the
head of John the Baptist. 6:26 And the king was exceeding sorry; yet for
his oath's sake, and for their sakes which sat with him, he would not reject
her. 6:27 And immediately the king sent an executioner, and commanded
his head to be brought: and he went and beheaded him in the prison, 6:28
And brought his head in a charger, and gave it to the damsel: and the
damsel gave it to her mother. 6:29 And when his disciples heard of it, they
came and took up his corpse, and laid it in a tomb. 6:30 And the apostles
gathered themselves together unto Jesus, and told him all things, both
what they had done, and what they had taught.
The  Gospel of Luke  refers very briefly to the beheading of John, the
Gospel of John not at all:
9:9 And Herod said, John have I beheaded: but who is this, of whom I hear
such things? And he desired to see him. 9:10 And the apostles, when they
were returned, told him all that they had done. And he took them, and went
aside privately into a desert place belonging to the city called Bethsaida.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Jesus after the execution of John the Baptist
Jesus responded to the execution of John by leaving the city and returning
to the wilderness.  He apparently sojourned somewhere on the east coast
of the Sea of Galilee, perhaps near to Genessaret, which is some 20 miles
from Caesaria Philippi, which he was to visit later on.   The Gospel of
Matthew tells this part of the story:
14:12 And his disciples came, and took up the body, and buried it, and went
and told Jesus.  14:13 When Jesus heard of it, he departed thence by ship
into a desert place apart: and when the people had heard thereof, they
followed him on foot out of the cities.  14:14 And Jesus went forth, and saw
a great multitude, and was moved with compassion toward them, and he
healed their sick.  14:15 And when it was evening, his disciples came to him,
saying, This is a desert place, and the time is now past; send the multitude
away, that they may go into the villages, and buy themselves victuals.  14:16
But Jesus said unto them, They need not depart; give ye them to eat.  14:17
And they say unto him, We have here but five loaves, and two fishes.  14:18
He said, Bring them hither to me.  14:19 And he commanded the multitude to
sit down on the grass, and took the five loaves, and the two fishes, and
looking up to heaven, he blessed, and brake, and gave the loaves to his
disciples, and the disciples to the multitude.  14:20 And they did all eat,
and were filled: and they took up of the fragments that remained twelve
baskets full.  14:21 And they that had eaten were about five thousand men,
beside women and children.  14:22 And straightway Jesus constrained his
disciples to get into a ship, and to go before him unto the other side, while
he sent the multitudes away.  14:23 And when he had sent the multitudes
away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray: and when the evening was
come, he was there alone.  14:24 But the ship was now in the midst of the
sea, tossed with waves: for the wind was contrary.  14:25 And in the fourth
watch of the night Jesus went unto them, walking on the sea.  14:26 And
when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying,
It is a spirit; and they cried out for fear.  14:27 But straightway Jesus spake
unto them, saying, Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid.  14:28 And Peter
answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the
water.  14:29 And he said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the ship, he walked on the water, to go to Jesus.  14:30 But when he saw
the wind boisterous, he was afraid; and beginning to sink, he cried, saying,
Lord, save me.  14:31 And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand, and
caught him, and said unto him, O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou
doubt?  14:32 And when they were come into the ship, the wind ceased.
14:33 Then they that were in the ship came and worshipped him, saying, Of
a truth thou art the Son of God.  14:34 And when they were gone over,
they came into the land of Gennesaret.
The  Gospel  of  Mark likewise  tells  the  story  of  this  sojourn  in  the
wilderness and away from the cities:
6:29 And when his disciples heard of it, they came and took up his corpse,
and laid it in a tomb.  6:30 And the apostles gathered themselves together
unto Jesus, and told him all things, both what they had done, and what
they had taught.  6:31 And he said unto them, Come ye yourselves apart
into a desert place, and rest a while: for there were many coming and going,
and they had no leisure so much as to eat.  6:32 And they departed into a
desert place by ship privately.  6:33 And the people saw them departing,
and many knew him, and ran afoot thither out of all cities, and outwent
them, and came together unto him.  6:34 And Jesus, when he came out, saw
much people, and was moved with compassion toward them, because they
were as sheep not having a shepherd: and he began to teach them many
things.  6:35 And when the day was now far spent, his disciples came unto
him, and said, This is a desert place, and now the time is far passed: 6:36
Send them away, that they may go into the country round about, and into
the villages, and buy themselves bread: for they have nothing to eat.  6:37
He answered and said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they say unto
him, Shall we go and buy two hundred pennyworth of bread, and give them
to eat? 6:38 He saith unto them, How many loaves have ye? go and see.
And  when  they  knew,  they  say,  Five,  and  two  fishes.  6:39  And  he
commanded them to make all sit down by companies upon the green grass.
6:40 And they sat down in ranks, by hundreds, and by fifties. 6:41 And
when he had taken the five loaves and the two fishes, he looked up to
heaven, and blessed, and brake the loaves, and gave them to his disciples

JESUS † The Complete Biography
to set before them; and the two fishes divided he among them all.  6:42 And
they did all eat, and were filled.  6:43 And they took up twelve baskets full
of the fragments, and of the fishes.  6:44 And they that did eat of the
loaves  were  about  five  thousand  men.   6:45  And  straightway  he
constrained his disciples to get into the ship, and to go to the other side
before unto Bethsaida, while he sent away the people.  6:46 And when he
had sent them away, he departed into a mountain to pray.  6:47 And when
even was come, the ship was in the midst of the sea, and he alone on the
land.  6:48 And he saw them toiling in rowing; for the wind was contrary
unto them: and about the fourth watch of the night he cometh unto them,
walking upon the sea, and would have passed by them.  6:49 But when
they saw him walking upon the sea, they supposed it had been a spirit, and
cried out: 6:50 For they all saw him, and were troubled. And immediately he
talked with them, and saith unto them,  Be of good cheer: it is I; be not
afraid.  6:51 And he went up unto them into the ship; and the wind ceased:
and they were sore amazed in themselves beyond measure, and wondered.
6:52 For they considered not the miracle of the loaves: for their heart was
hardened.  6:53 And when they had passed over, they came into the land
of Gennesaret, and drew to the shore.
While the Gospels of Matthew and Mark date this retreat to the wilderness
right after the execution of John, the Gospel of Luke seems to have placed
it in the wrong chronological order.  It indicates that Herod Antipas, after
the beheading of John, asked who he might be, who was preaching and
calling to repentance and healing, if he was the return of John, or someone
else…and  this  the  Gospel  of  Luke places  before  the  sojourn  in  the
wilderness:
9:7 Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done by him: and he was
perplexed, because that it was said of some, that John was risen from the
dead; 9:8 And of some, that Elias had appeared; and of others, that one
of the old prophets was risen again. 9:9 And Herod said,  John have I
beheaded: but who is this, of whom I hear such things? And he desired to
see him.  9:10 And the apostles, when they were returned, told him all that
they had done. And he took them, and went aside privately into a desert
place belonging to the city called Bethsaida.  9:11 And the people, when

JESUS † The Complete Biography
they knew it, followed him: and he received them, and spake unto them of
the kingdom of God, and healed them that had need of healing.
Up until this point it looks like Luke is telling a different story, one that
would take place weeks or months after the execution of John.  However,
the Gospel of Luke then continues:
9:12 And when the day began to wear away, then came the twelve, and said
unto him, Send the multitude away, that they may go into the towns and
country round about, and lodge, and get victuals: for we are here in a
desert place.  9:13 But he said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they
said, We have no more but five loaves and two fishes; except we should go
and buy meat for all this people.  9:14 For they were about five thousand
men. And he said to his disciples,  Make them sit down by fifties in a
company.  9:15 And they did so, and made them all sit down.  9:16 Then he
took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he
blessed them, and brake, and gave to the disciples to set before the
multitude.  9:17 And they did eat, and were all filled: and there was taken up
of fragments that remained to them twelve baskets.
Although the  Gospel of John  does not indicate that this took place
shortly after the execution of John, his account is virtually identical in
most details with that of the Gospels of Matthew and Mark:
6:1 After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee, which is the sea of
Tiberias.  6:2 And a great multitude followed him, because they saw his
miracles which he did on them that were diseased.  6:3 And Jesus went up
into a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples.  6:4 And the passover,
a feast of the Jews, was nigh.  6:5 When Jesus then lifted up his eyes, and
saw a great company come unto him, he saith unto Philip, Whence shall we
buy bread, that these may eat? 6:6 And this he said to prove him: for he
himself knew what he would do.  6:7 Philip answered him,  Two hundred
pennyworth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one of them may
take a little.  6:8 One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, saith
unto him, 6:9 There is a lad here, which hath five barley loaves, and two
small fishes: but what are they among so many? 6:10 And Jesus said, Make
the men sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat

JESUS † The Complete Biography
down, in number about five thousand.  6:11 And Jesus took the loaves; and
when he had given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples
to them that were set down; and likewise of the fishes as much as they
would. 6:12 When they were filled, he said unto his disciples, Gather up the
fragments that remain, that nothing be lost. 6:13 Therefore they gathered
them together, and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five
barley loaves, which remained over and above unto them that had eaten.
6:14 Then those men, when they had seen the miracle that Jesus did, said,
This is of a truth that prophet that should come into the world. 6:15 When
Jesus therefore perceived that they would come and take him by force, to
make him a king, he departed again into a mountain himself alone. 6:16 And
when even was now come, his disciples went down unto the sea, 6:17 And
entered into a ship, and went over the sea toward Capernaum. And it was
now dark, and Jesus was not come to them. 6:18 And the sea arose by
reason of a great wind that blew. 6:19 So when they had rowed about five
and twenty or thirty furlongs, they see Jesus walking on the sea, and
drawing nigh unto the ship: and they were afraid. 6:20 But he saith unto
them, It is I; be not afraid. 6:21 Then they willingly received him into the ship:
and immediately the ship was at the land whither they went. 6:22 The day
following, when the people which stood on the other side of the sea saw
that there was none other boat there, save that one whereinto his disciples
were entered, and that Jesus went not with his disciples into the boat, but
that his disciples were gone away alone; 6:23 (Howbeit there came other
boats from Tiberias nigh unto the place where they did eat bread, after
that the Lord had given thanks:) 6:24 When the people therefore saw that
Jesus was not there, neither his disciples, they also took shipping, and
came to Capernaum, seeking for Jesus.  6:25 And when they had found him
on the other side of the sea, they said unto him, Rabbi, when camest thou
hither?
All of the canonical Gospels indicate that at this juncture, Jesus left the
Galilee, journeyed across the Kinneret and abode awhile in the Tetrarchy
of Philip, referred to as “a desert place” in the Gospels of Matthew and
Mark, and more specifically as “a desert place belonging to the city called
Bethsaida” in the  Gospel of Luke.  We begin with the account in the
Gospel of Matthew:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
14:10 And he sent, and beheaded John in the prison. 14:11 And his head was
brought in a charger, and given to the damsel: and she brought it to her
mother. 14:12 And his disciples came, and took up the body, and buried it,
and went and told Jesus.14:13 When Jesus heard of it, he departed thence
by ship into a desert place apart: and when the people had heard thereof,
they followed him on foot out of the cities. 14:14 And Jesus went forth, and
saw a great multitude, and was moved with compassion toward them, and
he healed their sick. 14:15 And when it was evening, his disciples came to
him, saying,  This is a desert place, and the time is now past; send the
multitude away, that they may go into the villages, and buy themselves
victuals.  14:16 But Jesus said unto them,  They need not depart; give ye
them to eat. 14:17 And they say unto him, We have here but five loaves, and
two fishes. 14:18 He said, Bring them hither to me. 14:19 And he commanded
the multitude to sit down on the grass, and took the five loaves, and the
two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed, and brake, and gave the
loaves to his disciples, and the disciples to the multitude. 14:20 And they
did  all  eat,  and  were  filled:  and  they  took  up  of  the  fragments  that
remained twelve baskets full. 14:21 And they that had eaten were about five
thousand men, beside women and children.
The Gospel of Mark tells this same story, with some important details
missing but otherwise virtually word for word the same as Matthew:
6:25 And she came in straightway with haste unto the king, and asked,
saying, I will that thou give me by and by in a charger the head of John the
Baptist. 6:26 And the king was exceeding sorry; yet for his oath's sake,
and for their sakes which sat with him, he would not reject her. 6:27 And
immediately the king sent an executioner, and commanded his head to be
brought: and he went and beheaded him in the prison, 6:28 And brought
his head in a charger, and gave it to the damsel: and the damsel gave it to
her mother. 6:29 And when his disciples heard of it, they came and took up
his  corpse,  and  laid  it  in  a  tomb.  6:30  And  the  apostles  gathered
themselves together unto Jesus, and told him all things, both what they
had done, and what they had taught. 6:31 And he said unto them, Come ye
yourselves apart into a desert place, and rest a while: for there were many

JESUS † The Complete Biography
coming and going, and they had no leisure so much as to eat. 6:32 And
they departed into a desert place by ship privately. 6:33 And the people
saw them departing, and many knew him, and ran afoot thither out of all
cities, and outwent them, and came together unto him. 6:34 And Jesus,
when he came out, saw much people, and was moved with compassion
toward them, because they were as sheep not having a shepherd: and he
began to teach them many things. 6:35 And when the day was now far
spent, his disciples came unto him, and said,  This is a desert place, and
now the time is far passed: 6:36 Send them away, that they may go into the
country round about, and into the villages, and buy themselves bread: for
they have nothing to eat. 6:37 He answered and said unto them, Give ye
them to eat.  And they say unto him,  Shall we go and buy two hundred
pennyworth of bread, and give them to eat? 6:38 He saith unto them, How
many loaves have ye? go and see. And when they knew, they say, Five, and
two  fishes. 6:39  And  he  commanded  them  to  make  all  sit  down  by
companies upon the green grass. 6:40 And they sat down in ranks, by
hundreds, and by fifties. 6:41 And when he had taken the five loaves and
the two fishes, he looked up to heaven, and blessed, and brake the loaves,
and gave them to his disciples to set before them; and the two fishes
divided he among them all. 6:42 And they did all eat, and were filled. 6:43
And they took up twelve baskets full of the fragments, and of the fishes.
6:44  And  they  that  did  eat  of  the  loaves  were  about  five  thousand
men.6:45
The  Gospel  of  Luke refers  to  Jesus  and  the  apostles  journeying  to
Bethsaida, which is a city on the east coast of the Sea of Galilee which is the
most mentioned city in the Gospels, and also referred to by Josephus:
9:9 And Herod said, John have I beheaded: but who is this, of whom I hear
such things? And he desired to see him. 9:10 And the apostles, when they
were returned, told him all that they had done. And he took them, and went
aside privately into a desert place belonging to the city called Bethsaida.
9:11 And the people, when they knew it, followed him: and he received them,
and spake unto them of the kingdom of God, and healed them that had
need of healing. 9:12 And when the day began to wear away, then came the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
twelve, and said unto him, Send the multitude away, that they may go into
the towns and country round about, and lodge, and get victuals: for we are
here in a desert place. 9:13 But he said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And
they said,  We have no more but five loaves and two fishes; except we
should go and buy meat for all this people. 9:14 For they were about five
thousand men. And he said to his disciples, Make them sit down by fifties in
a company. 9:15 And they did so, and made them all sit down. 9:16 Then he
took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he
blessed them, and brake, and gave to the disciples to set before the
multitude. 9:17 And they did eat, and were all filled: and there was taken up
of fragments that remained to them twelve baskets.
The  Gospel of John likewise tells the story of this journey to the east
coast of the Sea of Galilee without stipulating its location:
6:1 After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee, which is the sea of
Tiberias. 6:2 And a great multitude followed him, because they saw his
miracles which he did on them that were diseased. 6:3 And Jesus went up
into a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples. 6:4 And the passover,
a feast of the Jews, was nigh. 6:5 When Jesus then lifted up his eyes, and
saw a great company come unto him, he saith unto Philip, Whence shall we
buy bread, that these may eat? 6:6 And this he said to prove him: for he
himself knew what he would do. 6:7 Philip answered him,  Two hundred
pennyworth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one of them may
take a little. 6:8 One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, saith
unto him, 6:9 There is a lad here, which hath five barley loaves, and two
small fishes: but what are they among so many? 6:10 And Jesus said, Make
the men sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat
down, in number about five thousand. 6:11 And Jesus took the loaves; and
when he had given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples
to them that were set down; and likewise of the fishes as much as they
would.
6:12  When  they  were  filled,  he  said  unto  his  disciples,  Gather  up  the
fragments that remain, that nothing be lost. 6:13 Therefore they gathered
them together, and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five

JESUS † The Complete Biography
barley loaves, which remained over and above unto them that had eaten.
6:14 Then those men, when they had seen the miracle that Jesus did, said,
This is of a truth that prophet that should come into the world. 6:15 When
Jesus therefore perceived that they would come and take him by force, to
make him a king, he departed again into a mountain himself alone.
Jesus travels to Caesarea Philippi
We have read of two times that Jesus and his apostles crossed over to the
east coast of the Sea of Galilee.  Here is a third time, wherein a visit to
Caesaria Philippi is specifically identified.  It speaks of his sojourn “into
the coasts of Caesarea Philippi”, which is twenty-five miles north of the
Kinneret and in the tetrarchy of Philip.  While we might suppose that Jesus
actually went as far north as to Caesarea Philippi (formerly called Paneas)
itself, reference to “the coasts” and “the towns” may be to the realms under
the jurisdiction of the tetrarch Philip (who reigned circa 4 BCE to 34 CE),
whose capital city was Caesaria Philippi.  There is no reference to Jesus
being in the capital city and so no reason to believe that such reference
would have been omitted by all of the canonical gospel authors.  We will
begin with the story as told in the Gospel of Matthew:
16:13 When Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his
disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I the Son of man am? 16:14 And
they said,  Some say that thou art John the Baptist: some, Elias; and
others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets. 16:15 He saith unto them,  But
whom say ye that I am? 16:16 And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art
the Christ, the Son of the living God. 16:17 And Jesus answered and said
unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood hath not
revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. 16:18 And I say also
unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church;
and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. 16:19 And I will give unto
thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt bind
on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt loose on
earth shall be loosed in heaven. 16:20 Then charged he his disciples that
they should tell no man that he was Jesus the Christ. 16:21 From that time
forth began Jesus to shew unto his disciples, how that he must go unto
Jerusalem, and suffer many things of the elders and chief priests and
scribes, and be killed, and be raised again the third day. 16:22 Then Peter

JESUS † The Complete Biography
took him, and began to rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord: this
shall not be unto thee. 16:23 But he turned, and said unto Peter, Get thee
behind me, Satan: thou art an offence unto me: for thou savourest not the
things that be of God, but those that be of men. 16:24 Then said Jesus
unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and
take up his cross, and follow me. 16:25 For whosoever will save his life shall
lose it: and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it.16:26 For
what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own
soul? or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? 16:27 For the Son of
man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels; and then he shall
reward every man according to his works. 16:28 Verily I say unto you, There
be some standing here, which shall not taste of death, till they see the Son
of man coming in his kingdom. 17:1 And after six days Jesus taketh Peter,
James, and John his brother, and bringeth them up into an high mountain
apart, 17:2 And was transfigured before them: and his face did shine as the
sun,  and  his  raiment  was  white  as  the  light.  17:3  And,  behold,  there
appeared unto them Moses and Elias talking with him. 17:4 Then answered
Peter, and said unto Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here: if thou wilt,
let us make here three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and
one  for  Elias. 17:5  While  he  yet  spake,  behold,  a  bright  cloud
overshadowed them: and behold a voice out of the cloud, which said, This
is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him. 17:6 And when
the disciples heard it, they fell on their face, and were sore afraid. 17:7 And
Jesus came and touched them, and said, Arise, and be not afraid. 17:8 And
when they had lifted up their eyes, they saw no man, save Jesus only. 17:9
And as they came down from the mountain, Jesus charged them, saying,
Tell the vision to no man, until the Son of man be risen again from the dead.
17:10 And his disciples asked him, saying,  Why then say the scribes that
Elias must first come? 17:11 And Jesus answered and said unto them, Elias
truly shall first come, and restore all things. 17:12 But I say unto you, That
Elias is come already, and they knew him not, but have done unto him
whatsoever they listed. Likewise shall also the Son of man suffer of them.
17:13 Then the disciples understood that he spake unto them of John the
Baptist. 17:14 And when they were come to the multitude, there came to him

JESUS † The Complete Biography
a certain man, kneeling down to him, and saying, 17:15 Lord, have mercy on
my son: for he is lunatick, and sore vexed: for ofttimes he falleth into the
fire, and oft into the water. 17:16 And I brought him to thy disciples, and
they could not cure him. 17:17 Then Jesus answered and said, O faithless
and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? how long shall I
suffer you? bring him hither to me. 17:18 And Jesus rebuked the devil; and
he departed out of him: and the child was cured from that very hour. 17:19
Then came the disciples to Jesus apart, and said, Why could not we cast
him out? 17:20 And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief: for
verily I say unto you, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall
say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove;
and nothing shall be impossible unto you. 17:21 Howbeit this kind goeth not
out but by prayer and fasting.
The Gospel of Mark tells this same story, in somewhat different words:
8:27 And Jesus went out, and his disciples, into the towns of Caesarea
Philippi: and by the way he asked his disciples, saying unto them, Whom do
men say that I am? 8:28 And they answered, John the Baptist; but some
say, Elias; and others, One of the prophets. 8:29 And he saith unto them,
But whom say ye that I am? And Peter answereth and saith unto him, Thou
art the Christ. 8:30 And he charged them that they should tell no man of
him. 8:31 And he began to teach them, that the Son of man must suffer
many things, and be rejected of the elders, and of the chief priests, and
scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again. 8:32 And he spake
that saying openly. And Peter took him, and began to rebuke him. 8:33 But
when he had turned about and looked on his disciples, he rebuked Peter,
saying, Get thee behind me, Satan: for thou savourest not the things that
be of God, but the things that be of men. 8:34 And when he had called the
people unto him with his disciples also, he said unto them, Whosoever will
come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross142, and follow me.
8:35 For whosoever will save his life shall lose it; but whosoever shall lose
his life for my sake and the gospel's, the same shall save it. 8:36 For what
shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?
8:37 Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? 8:38 Whosoever

JESUS † The Complete Biography
therefore shall be ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and
sinful generation; of him also shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he
cometh in the glory of his Father with the holy angels. 9:1 And he said unto
them, Verily I say unto you, That there be some of them that stand here,
which shall not taste of death, till they have seen the kingdom of God come
with power. 9:2 And after six days Jesus taketh with him Peter, and James,
and John, and leadeth them up into an high mountain apart by themselves:
and he was transfigured before them. 9:3 And his raiment became shining,
exceeding white as snow; so as no fuller on earth can white them. 9:4 And
there appeared unto them Elias with Moses: and they were talking with
Jesus. 9:5 And Peter answered and said to Jesus, Master, it is good for us
to be here: and let us make three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for
Moses, and one for Elias. 9:6 For he wist not what to say; for they were
sore afraid. 9:7 And there was a cloud that overshadowed them: and a
voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved son: hear him. 9:8
And suddenly, when they had looked round about, they saw no man any
more, save Jesus only with themselves. 9:9 And as they came down from
the mountain, he charged them that they should tell no man what things
they had seen, till the Son of man were risen from the dead. 9:10 And they
kept that saying with themselves, questioning one with another what the
rising from the dead should mean. 9:11 And they asked him, saying, Why say
the scribes that Elias must first come? 9:12 And he answered and told them,
Elias verily cometh first, and restoreth all things; and how it is written of the
Son of man, that he must suffer many things, and be set at nought. 9:13 But
I say unto you, That Elias is indeed come, and they have done unto him
whatsoever they listed, as it is written of him. 9:14 And when he came to his
disciples, he saw a great multitude about them, and the scribes questioning
with them. 9:15 And straightway all the people, when they beheld him, were
greatly amazed, and running to him saluted him. 9:16 And he asked the
scribes,  What  question  ye  with  them?  9:17  And  one  of  the  multitude
answered and said, Master, I have brought unto thee my son, which hath a
dumb spirit; 9:18 And wheresoever he taketh him, he teareth him: and he
foameth, and gnasheth with his teeth, and pineth away: and I spake to thy
disciples  that  they  should  cast  him  out;  and  they  could  not. 9:19  He

JESUS † The Complete Biography
answereth him, and saith, O faithless generation, how long shall I be with
you? how long shall I suffer you? bring him unto me. 9:20 And they brought
him unto him: and when he saw him, straightway the spirit tare him; and he
fell on the ground, and wallowed foaming. 9:21 And he asked his father,
How long is it ago since this came unto him? And he said, Of a child. 9:22
And ofttimes it hath cast him into the fire, and into the waters, to destroy
him: but if thou canst do any thing, have compassion on us, and help us.
9:23 Jesus said unto him, If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him
that believeth. 9:24 And straightway the father of the child cried out, and
said with tears, Lord, I believe; help thou mine unbelief. 9:25 When Jesus
saw that the people came running together, he rebuked the foul spirit,
saying unto him, Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I charge thee, come out of
him, and enter no more into him.  9:26 And the spirit cried, and rent him
sore, and came out of him: and he was as one dead; insomuch that many
said, He is dead. 9:27 But Jesus took him by the hand, and lifted him up;
and he arose. 9:28 And when he was come into the house, his disciples
asked him privately, Why could not we cast him out? 9:29 And he said unto
them, This kind can come forth by nothing, but by prayer and fasting.
The Gospel of Luke places the conversation of Jesus with his disciples
about his station and ministry and the subsequent appearance of Moses
and Elijah immediately following the “five loaves”…and considering that
the other synoptic Gospels locate this conversation on that side of the
Kinneret, this is not surprising…it may be indicative of there being a gap in
the text, a gap which is filled by the other Gospels:
9:18 And it came to pass, as he was alone praying, his disciples were with
him: and he asked them, saying, Whom say the people that I am? 9:19 They
answering said, John the Baptist; but some say, Elias; and others say, that
one of the old prophets is risen again. 9:20 He said unto them, But whom
say ye that I am?  Peter answering said, The Christ of God. 9:21 And he
straitly charged them, and commanded them to tell no man that thing; 9:22
Saying, The Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the
elders and chief priests and scribes, and be slain, and be raised the third
day. 9:23 And he said to them all, If any man will come after me, let him deny
himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me. 9:24 For whosoever will

JESUS † The Complete Biography
save his life shall lose it: but whosoever will lose his life for my sake, the
same shall save it. 9:25 For what is a man advantaged, if he gain the whole
world, and lose himself, or be cast away? 9:26 For whosoever shall be
ashamed of me and of my words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed,
when he shall come in his own glory, and in his Father's, and of the holy
angels. 9:27 But I tell you of a truth, there be some standing here, which
shall not taste of death, till they see the kingdom of God. 9:28 And it came
to pass about an eight days after these sayings, he took Peter and John
and James, and went up into a mountain to pray. 9:29 And as he prayed,
the fashion of his countenance was altered, and his raiment was white and
glistering. 9:30 And, behold, there talked with him two men, which were
Moses and Elias: 9:31 Who appeared in glory, and spake of his decease
which he should accomplish at Jerusalem. 9:32 But Peter and they that
were with him were heavy with sleep: and when they were awake, they saw
his glory, and the two men that stood with him. 9:33 And it came to pass, as
they departed from him, Peter said unto Jesus, Master, it is good for us to
be here: and let us make three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for
Moses, and one for Elias: not knowing what he said.  9:34 While he thus
spake, there came a cloud, and overshadowed them: and they feared as
they entered into the cloud. 9:35 And there came a voice out of the cloud,
saying, This is my beloved son: hear him. 9:36 And when the voice was past,
Jesus was found alone. And they kept it close, and told no man in those
days any of those things which they had seen. 9:37 And it came to pass,
that on the next day, when they were come down from the hill, much people
met him. 9:38 And, behold, a man of the company cried out, saying, Master,
I beseech thee, look upon my son: for he is mine only child. 9:39 And, lo, a
spirit taketh him, and he suddenly crieth out; and it teareth him that he
foameth again, and bruising him hardly departeth from him. 9:40 And I
besought thy disciples to cast him out; and they could not. 9:41 And Jesus
answering said,  O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be
with you, and suffer you? Bring thy son hither. 9:42 And as he was yet a
coming, the devil threw him down, and tare him. And Jesus rebuked the
unclean spirit, and healed the child, and delivered him again to his father.
9:43 And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God. But while they

JESUS † The Complete Biography
wondered  every  one  at  all  things  which  Jesus  did,  he  said  unto  his
disciples, 9:44 Let these sayings sink down into your ears: for the Son of
man shall be delivered into the hands of men. 9:45 But they understood
not this saying, and it was hid from them, that they perceived it not: and
they feared to ask him of that saying.
It should be noted  that,  in  each  of these  accounts from the  synoptic
Gospels, three disciples, being Peter, James and his brother John, all
fishermen living on the coast of the sea of Galilee, did accompany Jesus
and were witnesses to the “voice out of the cloud saying,  This is my
beloved son, in whom I am well pleased, hear him.”  That Peter was a
witness to this event is further confirmed in the Second Epistle of Peter:
1:16 For we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made
known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were
eyewitnesses of his majesty.  1:17 For he received from God the Father
honour and glory, when there came such a voice to him from the excellent
glory, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased.  1:18 And this voice
which came from heaven we heard, when we were with him in the holy
mount.
While the Gospel of John is attributed to the disciple John, this is the only
Gospel which does not contain this story.  Obviously, if the disciple John
was an eye-witness to this cosmic pronouncement, he would have reported
it in his Gospel.  One possibility is that John did not accompany Jesus on
his visit to Caesaria Philippi.  Other explanations have been suggested, but
this one seems to be the simplest, and therefore the most likely to be
accurate.

Jesus crosses over into Judaea
The Gospels of Matthew and Mark then say that Jesus crossed over
the Jordan, presumably from Caesaria Philippi, into Judaea…we start with
the Gospel of Matthew:
19:1 And it came to pass, that when Jesus had finished these sayings, he
departed  from  Galilee,  and  came  into  the  coasts  of  Judaea  beyond
Jordan; 19:2 And great multitudes followed him; and he healed them there.
19:3 The Pharisees also came unto him, tempting him, and saying unto him,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause?  19:4 And he
answered and said unto them, Have ye not read, that he which made them
at the beginning made them male and female, 19:5 And said, For this cause
shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife: and they
twain shall be one flesh? 19:6 Wherefore they are no more twain, but one
flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder.
19:7 They say unto him, Why did Moses then command to give a writing of
divorcement, and to put her away? 19:8 He saith unto them, Moses because
of the hardness of your hearts suffered you to put away your wives: but
from the beginning it was not so. 19:9 And I say unto you, Whosoever shall
put away his wife, except it be for fornication, and shall marry another,
committeth  adultery:  and  whoso  marrieth  her  which  is  put  away  doth
commit adultery. 19:10 His disciples say unto him, If the case of the man be
so with his wife, it is not good to marry. 19:11 But he said unto them, All men
cannot receive this saying, save they to whom it is given. 19:12 For there are
some eunuchs143, which were so born from their mother's womb: and there
are  some  eunuchs,  which  were  made  eunuchs  of  men:  and  there  be
eunuchs,  which  have  made  themselves  eunuchs  for  the  kingdom  of
heaven's sake. He that is able to receive it, let him receive it. 19:13 Then were
there brought unto him little children, that he should put his hands on
them, and pray: and the disciples rebuked them. 19:14 But Jesus said,
Suffer little children, and forbid them not, to come unto me: for of such is
the kingdom of heaven. 19:15 And he laid his hands on them, and departed
thence. 19:16 And, behold, one came and said unto him, Good Master, what
good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life? 19:17 And he said unto
him, Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, that is, God:
but if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments. 19:18 He saith unto
him, Which? Jesus said, Thou shalt do no murder, Thou shalt not commit
adultery, Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness, 19:19
Honour thy father and thy mother: and, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as
thyself. 19:20 The young man saith unto him, All these things have I kept
from my youth up: what lack I yet? 19:21 Jesus said unto him, If thou wilt be
perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt
have treasure in heaven: and come and follow me.  19:22 But when the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful: for he had great
possessions. 19:23 Then said Jesus unto his disciples, Verily I say unto you,
That a rich man shall hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven. 19:24 And
again I say unto you, It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a
needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. 19:25 When
his disciples heard it, they were exceedingly amazed, saying, Who then can
be saved? 19:26 But Jesus beheld them, and said unto them, With men this
is impossible; but with God all things are possible. 19:27 Then answered
Peter and said unto him, Behold, we have forsaken all, and followed thee;
what shall we have therefore? 19:28 And Jesus said unto them, Verily I say
unto you, That ye which have followed me, in the regeneration when the
Son of man shall sit in the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve
thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. 19:29 And every one that hath
forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or
children, or lands, for my name's sake, shall receive an hundredfold, and
shall inherit everlasting life. 19:30 But many that are first shall be last; and
the last shall be first. 20:1 For the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that
is an householder, which went out early in the morning to hire labourers
into his vineyard. 20:2 And when he had agreed with the labourers for a
penny a day, he sent them into his vineyard. 20:3 And he went out about
the third hour, and saw others standing idle in the marketplace, 20:4 And
said unto them; Go ye also into the vineyard, and whatsoever is right I will
give you. And they went their way. 20:5 Again he went out about the sixth
and ninth hour, and did likewise. 20:6 And about the eleventh hour he went
out, and found others standing idle, and saith unto them, Why stand ye
here all the day idle? 20:7 They say unto him, Because no man hath hired
us. He saith unto them, Go ye also into the vineyard; and whatsoever is
right, that shall ye receive. 20:8 So when even was come, the lord of the
vineyard saith unto his steward, Call the labourers, and give them their
hire, beginning from the last unto the first. 20:9 And when they came that
were hired about the eleventh hour, they received every man a penny.
20:10 But when the first came, they supposed that they should have
received more; and they likewise received every man a penny. 20:11 And
when they had received it, they murmured against the goodman of the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
house, 20:12 Saying, These last have wrought but one hour, and thou hast
made them equal unto us, which have borne the burden and heat of the
day. 20:13 But he answered one of them, and said, Friend, I do thee no
wrong: didst not thou agree with me for a penny? 20:14 Take that thine is,
and go thy way: I will give unto this last, even as unto thee. 20:15 Is it not
lawful for me to do what I will with mine own? Is thine eye evil, because I am
good? 20:16 So the last shall be first, and the first last: for many be called,
but few chosen.
And now the same account fom the Gospel of Mark:
10:1 And he arose from thence, and cometh into the coasts of Judaea by
the farther side of Jordan: and the people resort unto him again; and, as
he was wont, he taught them again. 10:2 And the Pharisees came to him,
and asked him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife? tempting him. 10:3
And he answered and said unto them, What did Moses command you? 10:4
And they said, Moses suffered to write a bill of divorcement, and to put
her away. 10:5 And Jesus answered and said unto them, For the hardness
of your heart he wrote you this precept. 10:6 But from the beginning of the
creation God made them male and female. 10:7 For this cause shall a man
leave his father and mother, and cleave to his wife; 10:8 And they twain
shall be one flesh: so then they are no more twain, but one flesh. 10:9 What
therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder. 10:10 And in
the house his disciples asked him again of the same matter. 10:11 And he
saith unto them,  Whosoever shall put away his wife, and marry another,
committeth adultery against her. 10:12 And if a woman shall put away her
husband, and be married to another, she committeth adultery. 10:13 And
they brought young children to him, that he should touch them: and his
disciples rebuked those that brought them. 10:14 But when Jesus saw it, he
was much displeased, and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come
unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God. 10:15
Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a
little child, he shall not enter therein. 10:16 And he took them up in his arms,
put his hands upon them, and blessed them. 10:17 And when he was gone
forth into the way, there came one running, and kneeled to him, and asked

JESUS † The Complete Biography
him, Good Master, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life? 10:18 And
Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? there is none good but
one, that is, God. 10:19 Thou knowest the commandments, Do not commit
adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Defraud not,
Honour thy father and mother. 10:20 And he answered and said unto him,
Master,  all  these  have  I  observed  from  my  youth.  10:21  Then  Jesus
beholding him loved him, and said unto him, One thing thou lackest: go thy
way, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have
treasure in heaven: and come, take up the cross, and follow me. 10:22 And
he was sad at that saying,  and went away grieved: for he had great
possessions. 10:23 And Jesus looked round about, and saith unto his
disciples, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of
God! 10:24 And the disciples were astonished at his words. But Jesus
answereth again, and saith unto them,  Children, how hard is it for them
that trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God! 10:25 It is easier for a
camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into
the kingdom of God.  10:26 And they were astonished out of measure,
saying among themselves, Who then can be saved? 10:27 And Jesus looking
upon them saith, With men it is impossible, but not with God: for with God
all things are possible. 10:28 Then Peter began to say unto him,  Lo, we
have left all, and have followed thee. 10:29 And Jesus answered and said,
Verily I say unto you, There is no man that hath left house, or brethren, or
sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my sake, and
the gospel's, 10:30 But he shall receive an hundredfold now in this time,
houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands,
with persecutions; and in the world to come eternal life. 10:31 But many that
are first shall be last; and the last first.
In  much  abbreviated  form,  the  Gospel  of  Luke  describes  the  same
journey:
13:22 And he went through the cities and villages, teaching, and journeying
toward Jerusalem. 13:23Then said one unto him, Lord, are there few that be
saved? And he said unto them, 13:24 Strive to enter in at the strait gate: for
many, I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able. 13:25 When

JESUS † The Complete Biography
once the master of the house is risen up, and hath shut to the door, and ye
begin to stand without, and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord, open
unto us; and he shall answer and say unto you, I know you not whence ye
are: 13:26 Then shall ye begin to say, We have eaten and drunk in thy
presence, and thou hast taught in our streets. 13:27 But he shall say, I tell
you, I know you not whence ye are; depart from me, all ye workers of
iniquity. 13:28 There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when ye shall
see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom
of God, and you yourselves thrust out. 13:29 And they shall come from the
east, and from the west, and from the north, and from the south, and shall
sit down in the kingdom of God. 13:30 And, behold, there are last which
shall be first, and there are first which shall be last.
Jesus visits Jerusalem for a feast
Jesus  and  his  traveling  companions  reach  Jerusalem  and  celebrate  a
Jewish festival, as recorded in the Gospel of John:
5:1  After  this  there  was  a  feast  of  the  Jews;  and  Jesus  went  up  to
Jerusalem. 5:2 Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep market a pool, which
is called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda, having five porches. 5:3 In these
lay a great multitude of impotent folk, of blind, halt, withered, waiting for
the moving of the water. 5:4 For an angel went down at a certain season
into the pool, and troubled the water: whosoever then first after the
troubling of the water stepped in was made whole of whatsoever disease
he had. 5:5 And a certain man was there, which had an infirmity thirty and
eight years. 5:6 When Jesus saw him lie, and knew that he had been now a
long time in that case, he saith unto him, Wilt thou be made whole? 5:7 The
impotent man answered him, Sir, I have no man, when the water is troubled,
to put me into the pool: but while I am coming, another steppeth down
before me. 5:8 Jesus saith unto him, Rise, take up thy bed, and walk. 5:9
And immediately the man was made whole, and took up his bed, and
walked: and on the same day was the sabbath. 5:10 The Jews therefore
said unto him that was cured, It is the sabbath day: it is not lawful for thee
to carry thy bed. 5:11 He answered them, He that made me whole, the same

JESUS † The Complete Biography
said unto me, Take up thy bed, and walk. 5:12 Then asked they him, What
man is that which said unto thee, Take up thy bed, and walk? 5:13 And he
that was healed wist not who it was: for Jesus had conveyed himself away,
a multitude being in that place. 5:14 Afterward Jesus findeth him in the
temple, and said unto him, Behold, thou art made whole: sin no more, lest a
worse thing come unto thee. 5:15 The man departed, and told the Jews that
it was Jesus, which had made him whole. 5:16 And therefore did the Jews
persecute Jesus, and sought to slay him, because he had done these
things on the sabbath day. 5:17 But Jesus answered them,  My Father
worketh hitherto, and I work. 5:18 Therefore the Jews sought the more to
kill him, because he not only had broken the sabbath, but said also that
God was his Father, making himself equal with God. 5:19 Then answered
Jesus and said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, The Son can do
nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do: for what things soever
he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise. 5:20 For the Father loveth the
Son, and sheweth him all things that himself doeth: and he will shew him
greater works than these, that ye may marvel. 5:21 For as the Father raiseth
up the dead, and quickeneth them; even so the Son quickeneth whom he
will. 5:22 For the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment
unto the Son: 5:23 That all men should honour the Son, even as they
honour the Father. He that honoureth not the Son honoureth not the
Father which hath sent him. 5:24 Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that
heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life,
and shall not come into condemnation; but is passed from death unto life.
5:25 Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour is coming, and now is, when the
dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God: and they that hear shall live.
5:26 For as the Father hath life in himself; so hath he given to the Son to
have life in himself; 5:27 And hath given him authority to execute judgment
also, because he is the Son of man. 5:28 Marvel not at this: for the hour is
coming, in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice, 5:29 And
shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life;
and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation. 5:30 I
can of mine own self do nothing: as I hear, I judge: and my judgment is just;
because I seek not mine own will, but the will of the Father which hath sent

JESUS † The Complete Biography
me. 5:31 If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true. 5:32 There is
another that beareth witness of me; and I know that the witness which he
witnesseth of me is true. 5:33 Ye sent unto John, and he bare witness unto
the truth. 5:34 But I receive not testimony from man: but these things I say,
that ye might be saved. 5:35 He was a burning and a shining light: and ye
were willing for a season to rejoice in his light. 5:36 But I have greater
witness than that of John: for the works which the Father hath given me to
finish, the same works that I do, bear witness of me, that the Father hath
sent me. 5:37 And the Father himself, which hath sent me, hath borne
witness of me. Ye have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his
shape. 5:38 And ye have not his word abiding in you: for whom he hath
sent, him ye believe not. 5:39 Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye
have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me. 5:40 And ye will not
come to me, that ye might have life.  5:41 I receive not honour from men.
5:42 But I know you, that ye have not the love of God in you.  5:43 I am
come in my Father's name, and ye receive me not: if another shall come in
his own name, him ye will receive. 5:44 How can ye believe, which receive
honour one of another, and seek not the honour that cometh from God
only? 5:45 Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father: there is one
that accuseth you, even Moses, in whom ye trust. 5:46 For had ye believed
Moses, ye would have believed me; for he wrote of me. 5:47 But if ye
believe not his writings, how shall ye believe my words?
This festival spent in Jerusalem is not identified in any way.  Nor are a
number of other visits ot festivals found in the gospels.  Rather than
attempt to identify when each one might have occurred, it has seemed to
be of greater value to look at them side by side, with three exceptions – the
first being his visit with his parents, possibly for his circumcision, and
previous to their flight to Egypt.  The second was when he was left behind
in the Beit ha-Mikdash at the age of twelve.  Both of these have been
described earlier in this text.  We will now look at the other festivals he
attended without attempting to determine when they occurred in his life.
Jesus visits Jerusalem for the feast of Sukkot
The second visit, after the unidentified festival just described, is for the
festival of tabernacles, which we know to have been Sukkot, and which is
described in the Gospel of John:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
7:2 Now the Jew's feast of tabernacles was at hand. 7:3 His brethren
therefore said unto him,  depart hence, and go into Judaea,  that thy
disciples also may see the works that thou doest.  7:4 For there is no man
that doeth any thing in secret, and he himself seeketh to be known openly.
If thou do these things, shew thyself to the world. 7:5 For neither did his
brethren believe in him. 7:6 Then Jesus said unto them, My time is not yet
come: but your time is alway ready. 7:7 The world cannot hate you; but me
it hateth, because I testify of it, that the works thereof are evil. 7:8 Go ye
up unto this feast: I go not up yet unto this feast: for my time is not yet full
come. 7:9 When he had said these words unto them, he abode still in
Galilee.
But Jesus did not tarry long in Galilee…he elected to journey to the feast of
tabernacles but in secret, and not in the company of his family:
7:10 But when his brethren were gone up, then went he also up unto the
feast, not openly, but as it were in secret. 7:11 Then the Jews sought him at
the feast, and said, Where is he? 7:12 And there was much murmuring among
the people concerning him: for some said, He is a good man: others said,
Nay; but he deceiveth the people. 7:13 Howbeit no man spake openly of him
for fear of the Jews.
The  Gospel of John indicates that Jesus taught in the temple in the
midst of Sukkot.  Inasmuch as Sukkot is seven days in length, this would
have been a few days after the start of the feast:
7:14 Now about the midst of the feast Jesus went up into the temple, and
taught. 7:15 And the Jews marvelled, saying, How knoweth this man letters,
having never learned? 7:16 Jesus answered them, and said, My doctrine is
not mine, but his that sent me. 7:17 If any man will do his will, he shall know
of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself. 7:18 He
that speaketh of himself seeketh his own glory: but he that seeketh his
glory that sent him, the same is true, and no unrighteousness is in him. 7:19
Did not Moses give you the law, and yet none of you keepeth the law? Why
go ye about to kill me? 7:20 The people answered and said, Thou hast a
devil: who goeth about to kill thee?  7:21 Jesus answered and said unto

JESUS † The Complete Biography
them, I have done one work, and ye all marvel. 7:22 Moses therefore gave
unto you circumcision; (not because it is of Moses, but of the fathers;)
and ye on the sabbath day circumcise a man. 7:23 If a man on the sabbath
day receive circumcision, that the law of Moses should not be broken; are
ye angry at me, because I have made a man every whit whole on the
sabbath day? 7:24 Judge not according to the appearance, but judge
righteous judgment.  7:25 Then said some of them of Jerusalem, Is not this
he, whom they seek to kill? 7:26 But, lo, he speaketh boldly, and they say
nothing unto him. Do the rulers know indeed that this is the very Christ
[Mashiach ben David]? 7:27 Howbeit we know this man whence he is: but
when Christ cometh, no man knoweth whence he is. 7:28 Then cried Jesus
in the temple as he taught, saying, Ye both know me, and ye know whence I
am: and I am not come of myself, but he that sent me is true, whom ye know
not. 7:29 But I know him: for I am from him, and he hath sent me.
The Gospel of John registers the reaction of the people to the teaching of
Jesus:
7:30 Then they sought to take him: but no man laid hands on him, because
his hour was not yet come. 7:31 And many of the people believed on him,
and said,  When Christ [Mashiach ben David] cometh, will he do more
miracles than these which this man hath done? 7:32 The Pharisees heard
that the people murmured such things concerning him; and the Pharisees
and the chief priests sent officers to take him. 7:33 Then said Jesus unto
them, Yet a little while am I with you, and then I go unto him that sent me.
7:34 Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me: and where I am, thither ye
cannot come. 7:35 Then said the Jews among themselves, Whither will he
go, that we shall not find him? will he go unto the dispersed among the
Gentiles, and teach the Gentiles? 7:36 What manner of saying is this that he
said, Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me: and where I am, thither ye
cannot come?
The Gospel of John reports the open proclamation of Jesus at the last
day of Sukkot, which may be a reference to Shemini Atzeret, on the 22nd
day of Tishrei:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
7:37 In the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried,
saying,  If any man thirst, let him come unto me, and drink. 7:38 He that
believeth on me, as the scripture hath said, out of his belly shall flow rivers
of living water. 7:39 (But this spake he of the Spirit, which they that believe
on him should receive: for the Holy Ghost was not yet given; because that
Jesus was not yet glorified.)
Once more, the Gospel of John registers the reaction of the people to his
teaching:
7:40 Many of the people therefore, when they heard this saying, said, Of
a truth this is the Prophet [Deut 18:15,18]. 7:41 Others said, This is the
Christ [Mashiach ben David]. But some said, Shall Christ [Mashiach ben
David] come out of Galilee? 7:42 Hath not the scripture said, That Christ
cometh of the seed of David, and out of the town of Bethlehem, where
David was?   7:43 So there was a division among the people because of
him. 7:44 And some of them would have taken him; but no man laid hands
on him. 7:45Then came the officers to the chief priests and Pharisees; and
they said unto them, Why have ye not brought him?  7:46 The officers
answered, Never man spake like this man.  7:47 Then answered them the
Pharisees, Are ye also deceived?  7:48 Have any of the rulers or of the
Pharisees believed on him?  7:49 But this people who knoweth not the law
are cursed. 7:50 Nicodemus saith unto them, (he that came to Jesus by
night, being one of them,)  7:51 Doth our law judge any man, before it hear
him, and know what he doeth?  7:52They answered and said unto him, Art
thou also of Galilee? Search, and look: for out of Galilee ariseth no
prophet. 7:53 And every man went unto his own house.
This assumption that the Messiah would not come from Galilee but from
Bethlehem, the birthplace of King David, is reiterated in a statement made
by Nathaniel, which we encountered when he first made contact with
Jesus, also described in the Gospel of John:
1:46 And Nathanael said unto him, Can there any good thing come out of
Nazareth? Philip saith unto him, Come and see.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
On this occasion, of Sukkot, Jesus returned to preach in the temple, and to
judge a case of adultery:
8:2 And early in the morning he came again into the temple, and all the
people came unto him; and he sat down, and taught them. 8:3 And the
scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery; and
when they had set her in the midst, 8:4 They say unto him, Master, this
woman was taken in adultery, in the very act. 8:5 Now Moses in the law
commanded us, that such should be stoned: but what sayest thou? 8:6
This they said, tempting him, that they might have to accuse him. But Jesus
stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground, as though he
heard them not. 8:7 So when they continued asking him, he lifted up
himself, and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first
cast a stone at her. 8:8 And again he stooped down, and wrote on the
ground.  8:9  And  they  which  heard  it,  being  convicted  by  their  own
conscience, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the
last: and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst. 8:10
When Jesus had lifted up himself, and saw none but the woman, he said
unto  her,  Woman,  where  are  those  thine  accusers?  hath  no  man
condemned thee? 8:11 She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her,
Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more.
While Jesus preaches on adultery in the synoptic Gospels, it is only in the
Gospel of John that this story is told of his forgiveness of the adulterous
woman.   Also  unique  to  the  Gospel of  John is  this sermon,  which
presumably took place in the same place and on the same occasion:
8:12 Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world:
he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of
life. 8:13 The Pharisees therefore said unto him, Thou bearest record of
thyself; thy record is not true. 8:14 Jesus answered and said unto them,
Though I bear record of myself, yet my record is true: for I know whence I
came, and whither I go; but ye cannot tell whence I come, and whither I go.
8:15 Ye judge after the flesh; I judge no man. 8:16 And yet if I judge, my
judgment is true: for I am not alone, but I and the Father that sent me. 8:17 It
is also written in your law, that the testimony of two men is true. 8:18 I am
one that bear witness of myself, and the Father that sent me beareth

JESUS † The Complete Biography
witness of me. 8:19 Then said they unto him, Where is thy Father? Jesus
answered,  Ye neither know me, nor my Father: if ye had known me, ye
should have known my Father also.  8:20 These words spake Jesus in
the treasury, as he taught in the temple: and no man laid hands on
him; for his hour was not yet come. 8:21 Then said Jesus again unto
them, I go my way, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sins:
whither I go, ye cannot come. 8:22 Then said the Jews, Will he kill
himself? because he saith, Whither I go, ye cannot come.  8:23 And
he said unto them, Ye are from beneath; I am from above: ye are of
this world; I am not of this world. 8:24 I said therefore unto you, that
ye shall die in your sins: for if ye believe not that I am he, ye shall die
in your sins. 8:25 Then said they unto him, Who art thou? And Jesus
saith unto them,  Even  the same that I said unto you from the
beginning. 8:26 I have many things to say and to judge of you: but he
that sent me is true; and I speak to the world those things which I
have heard of him. 8:27 They understood not that he spake to them
of the Father. 8:28 Then said Jesus unto them, When ye have lifted
up the Son of man, then shall ye know that I am he, and that I do
nothing of myself; but as my Father hath taught me, I speak these
things. 8:29 And he that sent me is with me: the Father hath not left
me alone; for I do always those things that please him. 8:30 As he
spake these words, many believed on him. 8:31 Then said Jesus to
those Jews which believed on him, If ye continue in my word, then
are ye my disciples indeed; 8:32 And ye shall know the truth, and the
truth  shall  make  you  free. 8:33  They  answered  him,  We  be
Abraham's seed, and were never in bondage to any man: how sayest
thou, Ye shall be made free? 8:34 Jesus answered them,  Verily,
verily, I say unto you, Whosoever committeth sin is the servant of
sin. 8:35 And the servant abideth not in the house for ever: but the
Son abideth ever. 8:36 If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye
shall be free indeed. 8:37 I know that ye are Abraham's seed; but ye

JESUS † The Complete Biography
seek to kill me, because my word hath no place in you. 8:38 I speak
that which I have seen with my Father: and ye do that which ye have
seen  with  your  father. 8:39  They  answered  and  said  unto  him,
Abraham is our father. Jesus saith unto them, If ye were Abraham's
children, ye would do the works of Abraham. 8:40 But now ye seek
to kill me, a man that hath told you the truth, which I have heard of
God: this did not Abraham. 8:41 Ye do the deeds of your father.
Then said they to him, We be not born of fornication; we have one
Father, even God. 8:42 Jesus said unto them,  If God were your
Father, ye would love me: for I proceeded forth and came from God;
neither came I of myself, but he sent me. 8:43 Why do ye not
understand my speech? even because ye cannot hear my word.
8:44 Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye
will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the
truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he
speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father of it. 8:45 And
because I tell you the truth, ye believe me not. 8:46 Which of you
convinceth me of sin? And if I say the truth, why do ye not believe
me? 8:47 He that is of God heareth God's words: ye therefore hear
them not, because ye are not of God. 8:48 Then answered the Jews,
and said unto him, Say we not well that thou art a Samaritan, and
hast a devil? 8:49 Jesus answered, I have not a devil; but I honour
my Father, and ye do dishonour me. 8:50 And I seek not mine own
glory: there is one that seeketh and judgeth. 8:51 Verily, verily, I say
unto you, If a man keep my saying, he shall never see death. 8:52
Then said the Jews unto him, Now we know that thou hast a devil.
Abraham is dead, and the prophets; and thou sayest, If a man keep
my saying, he shall never taste of death. 8:53 Art thou greater than
our father Abraham, which is dead? and the prophets are dead:
whom makest thou thyself? 8:54 Jesus answered, If I honour myself,
my honour is nothing: it is my Father that honoureth me; of whom ye

JESUS † The Complete Biography
say, that he is your God: 8:55 Yet ye have not known him; but I know
him: and if I should say, I know him not, I shall be a liar like unto you:
but I know him, and keep his saying. 8:56 Your father Abraham
rejoiced to see my day: and he saw it, and was glad. 8:57 Then said
the Jews unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years old, and hast thou
seen Abraham?144 8:58 Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto
you, Before Abraham was, I am.
At this juncture in the sermon, Jesus is attacked when he says these words,
as a party of his listeners sincerely believed them to be blasphemous.  He
exited the temple and then proceeded to heal a man blind from birth:
8:59 Then took they up stones to cast at him: but Jesus hid himself, and
went out of the temple, going through the midst of them, and so passed
by.  9:1 And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his
birth. 9:2 And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin, this man,
or his parents, that he was born blind? 9:3 Jesus answered, Neither hath
this man sinned, nor his parents: but that the works of God should be
made manifest in him. 9:4 I must work the works of him that sent me, while it
is day: the night cometh, when no man can work. 9:5 As long as I am in the
world, I am the light of the world. 9:6 When he had thus spoken, he spat on
the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and he anointed the eyes of the
blind man with the clay, 9:7 And said unto him,  Go, wash in the pool of
Siloam, (which is by interpretation, Sent.) He went his way therefore, and
washed, and came seeing. 9:8 The neighbours therefore, and they which
before had seen him that he was blind, said,  Is not this he that sat and
begged? 9:9 Some said, This is he: others said, He is like him: but he said, I
am he. 9:10 Therefore said they unto him, How were thine eyes opened?
9:11 He answered and said, A man that is called Jesus made clay, and
anointed mine eyes, and said unto me, Go to the pool of Siloam, and wash:
and I went and washed, and I received sight.  9:12 Then said they unto him,
Where is he? He said, I know not. 9:13 They brought to the Pharisees him
that aforetime was blind. 9:14 And it was the sabbath day when Jesus made
the clay, and opened his eyes.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
This seems to have occurred on a shabbat following Sukkot, for the days of
Sukkot, apart from the first and second day, are not shabbatot, they do not
require the cessation of work.  This was the reaction of the Pharisees,
masters of the Jewish law, to Jesus healing a man on this shabbat, in
Jerusalem, shortly after the end of Sukkot:
9:15 Then again the Pharisees also asked him how he had received his sight.
He said unto them, He put clay upon mine eyes, and I washed, and do see.
9:16  Therefore  said  some  of  the  Pharisees,  This  man  is  not  of  God,
because he keepeth not the sabbath day. Others said, How can a man
that is a sinner do such miracles? And there was a division among them. 9:17
They say unto the blind man again, What sayest thou of him, that he hath
opened thine eyes? He said, He is a prophet. 9:18 But the Jews did not
believe concerning him, that he had been blind, and received his sight, until
they called the parents of him that had received his sight. 9:19 And they
asked them, saying, Is this your son, who ye say was born blind? how then
doth he now see? 9:20 His parents answered them and said, We know that
this is our son, and that he was born blind: 9:21 But by what means he now
seeth, we know not; or who hath opened his eyes, we know not: he is of
age; ask him: he shall speak for himself. 9:22 These words spake his
parents, because they feared the Jews: for the Jews had agreed already,
that if any man did confess that he was Christ, he should be put out of the
synagogue. 9:23 Therefore said his parents, He is of age; ask him. 9:24
Then again called they the man that was blind, and said unto him, Give God
the praise: we know that this man is a sinner. 9:25 He answered and said,
Whether he be a sinner or no, I know not: one thing I know, that, whereas I
was blind, now I see. 9:26 Then said they to him again, What did he to thee?
how  opened  he  thine  eyes?  9:27  He  answered  them,  I  have  told  you
already, and ye did not hear: wherefore would ye hear it again? will ye also
be his disciples? 9:28 Then they reviled him, and said, Thou art his disciple;
but we are Moses' disciples. 9:29 We know that God spake unto Moses: as
for this fellow, we know not from whence he is. 9:30 The man answered and
said unto them, Why herein is a marvellous thing, that ye know not from
whence he is, and yet he hath opened mine eyes. 9:31 Now we know that
God heareth not sinners: but if any man be a worshipper of God, and
doeth his will, him he heareth. 9:32 Since the world began was it not heard

JESUS † The Complete Biography
that any man opened the eyes of one that was born blind. 9:33 If this man
were not of God, he could do nothing. 9:34 They answered and said unto
him, Thou wast altogether born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And they
cast him out.
The man who was blind and who could now see was ostracized because he
had the courage to speak the truth—to affirm without equivocation that
“whereas I was blind, now I see.”
9:35 Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and when he had found him,
he said unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God? 9:36 He answered
and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him? 9:37 And Jesus said
unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and it is he that talketh with thee. 9:38
And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him. 9:39 And Jesus said,
For judgment I am come into this world, that they which see not might see;
and that they which see might be made blind. 9:40 And some of the
Pharisees which were with him heard these words, and said unto him, Are
we blind also? 9:41 Jesus said unto them, If ye were blind, ye should have
no sin: but now ye say, We see; therefore your sin remaineth. 10:1 Verily,
verily, I say unto you, He that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold,
but climbeth up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber. 10:2 But
he that entereth in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. 10:3 To him
the porter openeth; and the sheep hear his voice: and he calleth his own
sheep by name, and leadeth them out. 10:4 And when he putteth forth his
own sheep, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him: for they know
his voice. 10:5 And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him: for
they know not the voice of strangers. 10:6 This parable spake Jesus unto
them: but they understood not what things they were which he spake unto
them. 10:7 Then said Jesus unto them again, Verily, verily, I say unto you, I
am the door of the sheep. 10:8 All that ever came before me are thieves
and robbers: but the sheep did not hear them. 10:9 I am the door: by me if
any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, and find
pasture. 10:10 The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to
destroy: I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it
more abundantly. 10:11 I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd giveth

JESUS † The Complete Biography
his life for the sheep. 10:12 But he that is an hireling, and not the shepherd,
whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the
sheep, and fleeth: and the wolf catcheth them, and scattereth the sheep.
10:13 The hireling fleeth, because he is an hireling, and careth not for the
sheep. 10:14 I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known
of mine. 10:15 As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father: and I
lay down my life for the sheep. 10:16 And other sheep I have, which are not
of this fold: them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there
shall be one fold, and one shepherd. 10:17 Therefore doth my Father love
me, because I lay down my life, that I might take it again. 10:18 No man
taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down,
and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my
Father.  10:19 There was a division therefore again among the Jews
for these sayings. 10:20 And many of them said, He hath a devil, and
is mad; why hear ye him? 10:21 Others said, These are not the words
of him that hath a devil. Can a devil open the eyes of the blind?
Jesus visits Jerusalem for the feast of Channukah
While Sukkot takes place years on different days according to the lunar
Jewish calendar corresponding to the period between late September to
late October in the Gregorian calendar, Jesus and his disciples were in
Jerusalem between two and three months prior to the next festival he is
described as attending in Jerusalem.  That is the “feast of the dedication”,
later called Channukah, which the text of the Gospel of John describes
immediately after its depiction of Sukkot.  It does not seem likely that
Jesus and his apostles remained in Jerusalem for this entire period, and
rather that the Gospel of John did what has been done here, which is to
present multiple festival visits into one narrative:
10:22 And it was at Jerusalem the feast of the dedication, and it was winter.
10:23 And Jesus walked in the temple in Solomon's porch. 10:24 Then came
the Jews round about him, and said unto him, How long dost thou make us
to doubt? If thou be the Christ, tell us plainly. 10:25 Jesus answered them, I
told you, and ye believed not: the works that I do in my Father's name, they
bear witness of me. 10:26 But ye believe not, because ye are not of my
sheep, as I said unto you. 10:27 My sheep hear my voice, and I know them,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and they follow me: 10:28 And I give unto them eternal life; and they shall
never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. 10:29 My
Father, which gave them me, is greater than all; and no man is able to pluck
them out of my Father's hand. 10:30 I and my Father are one. 10:31 Then
the Jews took up stones again to stone him. 10:32 Jesus answered them,
Many good works have I shewed you from my Father; for which of those
works do ye stone me? 10:33 The Jews answered him, saying, For a good
work we stone thee not; but for blasphemy; and because that thou, being
a man, makest thyself God. 10:34 Jesus answered them, Is it not written in
your law, I said, Ye are gods? 10:35 If he called them gods, unto whom the
word of God came, and the scripture cannot be broken; 10:36 Say ye of
him,  whom  the  Father  hath  sanctified,  and  sent  into  the  world,  Thou
blasphemest; because I said, I am the Son of God? 10:37 If I do not the
works of my Father, believe me not. 10:38 But if I do, though ye believe not
me, believe the works: that ye may know, and believe, that the Father is in
me, and I in him.
Jesus in the wilderness where John first baptized
Jesus was attacked again and this time he left Jerusalem, alone, returning
to the wilderness where John the Baptist had begun his calling of baptizing
souls for the repentance of sins and preparation for the coming of the
kingdom of God.  This is once more found in the Gospel of John:
10:39 Therefore they sought again to take him: but he escaped out of their
hand, 10:40 And went away again beyond Jordan into the place where
John at first baptized; and there he abode.  10:41 And many resorted unto
him, and said, John did no miracle: but all things that John spake of this
man were true. 10:42 And many believed on him there.
It was in the wilderness his disciples that his disciples joined him, and
where he received word from Mary and Martha, who resided in nearby
Bethany, that his friend Lazarus had died.  He resolved to visit Bethany
and to revive Lazarus:
11:1 Now a certain man was sick, named Lazarus, of Bethany, the town of
Mary and her sister Martha. 11:2 (It was that Mary which anointed the Lord

JESUS † The Complete Biography
with ointment, and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was
sick.) 11:3 Therefore his sisters sent unto him, saying,  Lord, behold, he
whom thou lovest is sick. 11:4 When Jesus heard that, he said, This sickness
is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God might be
glorified thereby. 11:5 Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus.
11:6 When he had heard therefore that he was sick, he abode two days still
in  the  same  place  where  he  was.  11:7  Then  after  that  saith  he  to  his
disciples,  Let us go into Judaea again. 11:8 His disciples say unto him,
Master, the Jews of late sought to stone thee; and goest thou thither
again? 11:9 Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If any
man walk in the day, he stumbleth not, because he seeth the light of this
world. 11:10 But if a man walk in the night, he stumbleth, because there is no
light in him. 11:11 These things said he: and after that he saith unto them,
Our friend Lazarus sleepeth; but I go, that I may awake him out of sleep.
11:12 Then said his disciples, Lord, if he sleep, he shall do well. 11:13 Howbeit
Jesus spake of his death: but they thought that he had spoken of taking
of rest in sleep. 11:14 Then said Jesus unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead.
11:15 And I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, to the intent ye may
believe; nevertheless let us go unto him. 11:16 Then said Thomas, which is
called Didymus, unto his fellow disciples, Let us also go, that we may die
with him.
Jesus goes to Bethany to revive Lazarus
11:17 Then when Jesus came, he found that he had lain in the grave four
days already. 11:18 Now Bethany was nigh unto Jerusalem, about fifteen
furlongs off: 11:19 And many of the Jews came to Martha and Mary, to
comfort them concerning their brother. 11:20 Then Martha, as soon as she
heard that Jesus was coming, went and met him: but Mary sat still in the
house. 11:21 Then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hadst been here,
my brother had not died. 11:22 But I know, that even now, whatsoever thou
wilt ask of God, God will give it thee. 11:23 Jesus saith unto her, Thy brother
shall rise again. 11:24 Martha saith unto him, I know that he shall rise again in
the  resurrection  at  the  last  day.  11:25  Jesus  said  unto  her,  I  am  the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet
shall he live: 11:26 And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.
Believest thou this? 11:27 She saith unto him, Yea, Lord: I believe that thou
art the Christ, the Son of God, which should come into the world. 11:28 And
when she had so said, she went her way, and called Mary her sister
secretly, saying, The Master is come, and calleth for thee. 11:29 As soon as
she heard that, she arose quickly, and came unto him. 11:30 Now Jesus was
not yet come into the town, but was in that place where Martha met him.
11:31 The Jews then which were with her in the house, and comforted her,
when they saw Mary, that she rose up hastily and went out, followed her,
saying, She goeth unto the grave to weep there. 11:32 Then when Mary was
come where Jesus was, and saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying unto
him, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died. 11:33 When
Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping which came
with her, he groaned in the spirit, and was troubled. 11:34 And said, Where
have ye laid him? They said unto him,  Lord, come and see.  11:35 Jesus
wept. 11:36 Then said the Jews, Behold how he loved him!  11:37 And some of
them said, Could not this man, which opened the eyes of the blind, have
caused that even this man should not have died? 11:38 Jesus therefore
again groaning in himself cometh to the grave. It was a cave, and a stone lay
upon it. 11:39 Jesus said, Take ye away the stone. Martha, the sister of him
that was dead, saith unto him, Lord, by this time he stinketh: for he hath
been dead four days. 11:40 Jesus saith unto her, Said I not unto thee, that,
if thou wouldest believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God? 11:41 Then
they took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid. And
Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said,  Father, I thank thee that thou hast
heard me. 11:42 And I knew that thou hearest me always: but because of
the people which stand by I said it, that they may believe that thou hast
sent me. 11:43 And when he thus had spoken, he cried with a loud voice,
Lazarus, come forth. 11:44 And he that was dead came forth, bound hand
and foot with graveclothes: and his face was bound about with a napkin.
Jesus saith unto them, Loose him, and let him go.
As previously encountered, the Gospel of John reports the response of
the people to these events:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
11:45 Then many of the Jews which came to Mary, and had seen the things
which Jesus did, believed on him. 11:46 But some of them went their ways to
the Pharisees, and told them what things Jesus had done. 11:47 Then
gathered the chief priests and the Pharisees a council, and said, What do
we? for this man doeth many miracles. 11:48 If we let him thus alone, all men
will believe on him: and the Romans shall come and take away both our
place and nation. 11:49 And one of them, named Caiaphas, being the high
priest that same year, said unto them, Ye know nothing at all, 11:50 Nor
consider that it is expedient for us, that one man should die for the people,
and that the whole nation perish not. 11:51 And this spake he not of himself:
but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for
that nation; 11:52 And not for that nation only, but that also he should
gather together in one the children of God that were scattered abroad.
11:53 Then from that day forth they took counsel together for to put him to
death. 11:54 Jesus therefore walked no more openly among the Jews; but
went thence unto a country near to the wilderness, into a city called
Ephraim, and there continued with his disciples.
The conclusion of this series of events would have occurred in the midst of
winter, while the final Pesacn (Passover) festival during which pilgrimage
to Jerusalem Jesus was apprehended, condemned and crucified would
have occurred no earlier than March.  It is very unlikely that they occurred
during this visit.  Hence, we will examine the fiinal festival and its related
events much later in this study of the life of Jesus.  While it was clear from
the  narrative  that  there  were  already  members  of  the  Sanhedrin  and
among the kohanim who were very concerned about the teachings of
Jesus, they were not yet ready to engineer his elimination.
Jesus sends out disciples
According to the synoptic gospels, Jesus sent out 12 disciples, and the
question is when did he do that.  He could have done so before his journey
to Caesaria Philippi, and before he attended a festival in Jerusalem for the
first time.  But we are going to surmise that they accompanied him on
various journeys before he sent them as envoys with his message.  We have
positioned this act just prior to him receiving an envoy from John the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Baptist in prison, as this is the sequence in the Gospel of Matthew, which
preserves the most complete discourse of Jesus delivered to the disciples
prior to their depature.  Hence, we begin with the Gospel of Matthew:
5:1 And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain: and when he was
set, his disciples came unto him…
9:35 And Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their
synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every
sickness and every disease among the people. 9:36 But when he saw the
multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them, because they fainted,
and were scattered abroad, as sheep having no shepherd. 9:37 Then saith
he unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous, but the labourers are
few; 9:38 Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth
labourers into his harvest. 10:1 And when he had called unto him his twelve
disciples, he gave them power against unclean spirits, to cast them out, and
to heal all manner of sickness and all manner of disease. 10:2 Now the
names of the twelve apostles are these; The first, Simon, who is called
Peter, and Andrew his brother; James the son of Zebedee, and John his
brother; 10:3 Philip, and Bartholomew; Thomas, and Matthew the publican;
James  the  son  of  Alphaeus,  and  Lebbaeus,  whose  surname  was
Thaddaeus;  10:4  Simon  the  Canaanite,  and  Judas  Iscariot,  who  also
betrayed him. 10:5 These twelve Jesus sent forth, and commanded them,
saying,  Go not into the way of the Gentiles, and into any city of the
Samaritans enter ye not: 10:6 But go rather to the lost sheep of the house
of Israel. 10:7 And as ye go, preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at
hand. 10:8 Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out devils:
freely ye have received, freely give.  10:9 Provide neither gold, nor silver,
nor brass in your purses, 10:10 Nor scrip for your journey, neither two
coats, neither shoes, nor yet staves: for the workman is worthy of his meat.
10:11 And into whatsoever city or town ye shall enter,

enquire who in it is


worthy; and there abide till ye go thence. 10:12 And when ye come into an
house, salute it. 10:13 And if the house be worthy, let your peace come
upon it: but if it be not worthy, let your peace return to you. 10:14 And
whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear your words, when ye depart out
of that house or city, shake off the dust of your feet. 10:15 Verily I say unto

JESUS † The Complete Biography
you, It shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrha in the
day of judgment, than for that city.  10:16 Behold, I send you forth as
sheep in the midst of wolves145: be ye therefore wise as serpents, and
harmless as doves.
10:17 But beware of men: for they will deliver you up to the councils, and
they will scourge you in their synagogues; 10:18 And ye shall be brought
before governors and kings for my sake, for a testimony against them and
the Gentiles.146 10:19 But when they deliver you up, take no thought how or
what ye shall speak: for it shall be given you in that same hour what ye shall
speak. 10:20 For it is not ye that speak, but the Spirit of your Father which
speaketh in you. 10:21 And the brother shall deliver up the brother to
death, and the father the child: and the children shall rise up against their
parents, and cause them to be put to death. 10:22 And ye shall be hated of
all men for my name's sake: but he that endureth to the end shall be
saved.147 10:23  But  when  they  persecute  you  in  this  city,  flee  ye  into
another: for verily I say unto you, Ye shall not have gone over the cities of
Israel, till the Son of man be come. 10:24 The disciple is not above his
master, nor the servant above his lord. 10:25 It is enough for the disciple
that he be as his master, and the servant as his lord. If they have called the
master of the house Beelzebub, how much more shall they call them of his
household?
The parallels to this account in the Gospel of Mark are fragmentary and
scattered all over and they will be cited according to where they match,
rather than in the order in which they appear:
3:13 And he goeth up into a mountain, and calleth unto him whom he would:
and they came unto him. 3:14 And he ordained twelve, that they should be
with him, and that he might send them forth to preach, 3:15 And to have
power  to  heal  sicknesses,  and  to  cast  out  devils:  3:16  And  Simon  he
surnamed  Peter;  3:17  And  James  the  son  of  Zebedee,  and  John  the
brother of James; and he surnamed them Boanerges, which is, The sons of
thunder: 3:18 And Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and
Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Canaanite, 3:19 And Judas Iscariot, which also betrayed him: and they went
into an house…
6:6 And he marvelled because of their unbelief. And he went round about
the villages, teaching.  6:7 And he called unto him the twelve, and began to
send them forth by two and two; and gave them power over unclean spirits;
6:8 And commanded them that they should take nothing for their journey,
save a staff only; no scrip, no bread, no money in their purse: 6:9 But be
shod with sandals; and not put on two coats. 6:10 And he said unto them,
In what place soever ye enter into an house, there abide till ye depart from
that place. 6:11 And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear you, when ye
depart thence, shake off the dust under your feet for a testimony against
them. Verily I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for Sodom and
Gomorrha in the day of judgment, than for that city. 6:12 And they went
out, and preached that men should repent. 6:13 And they cast out many
devils, and anointed with oil many that were sick, and healed them…
6:30  And the apostles gathered themselves together unto Jesus, and told
him all things, both what they had done, and what they had taught.
6:31  And he said unto them, Come ye yourselves apart into a desert place,
and rest a while: for there were many coming and going, and they had no
leisure so much as to eat. 6:32  And they departed into a desert place by
ship privately. 6:33  And the people saw them departing, and many knew
him, and ran afoot thither out of all cities, and outwent them, and came
together unto him…
13:9 But take heed to yourselves: for they shall deliver you up to councils;
and in the synagogues ye shall be beaten: and ye shall be brought before
rulers and kings for my sake, for a testimony against them. 13:10 And the
gospel must first be published among all nations. 13:11 But when they shall
lead you, and deliver you up, take no thought beforehand what ye shall
speak, neither do ye premeditate: but whatsoever shall be given you in that
hour, that speak ye: for it is not ye that speak, but the Holy Ghost. 13:12
Now the brother shall betray the brother to death, and the father the son;
and children shall rise up against their parents, and shall cause them to be
put to death. 13:13 And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake: but
he that shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The passages in the Gospel of Luke which refer to the sending out of the
disciples are just as fragmented and scattered:
6:12 And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a mountain to
pray, and continued all night in prayer to God. 6:13 And when it was day, he
called unto him his disciples: and of them he chose twelve, whom also he
named apostles; 6:14 Simon148, (whom he also named Peter,) and Andrew
his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew, 6:15 Matthew and
Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon called Zelotes, 6:16 And
Judas  the  brother  of  James,  and  Judas  Iscariot,  which  also  was  the
traitor…
8:1 And it came to pass afterward, that he went throughout every city and
village, preaching and shewing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God: and
the twelve were with him…
9:1 Then he called his twelve disciples together, and gave them power and
authority over all devils, and to cure diseases. 9:2 And he sent them to
preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick. 9:3 And he said unto
them,  Take nothing for your journey, neither staves, nor scrip, neither
bread, neither money; neither have two coats apiece. 9:4 And whatsoever
house ye enter into, there abide, and thence depart. 9:5 And whosoever
will not receive you, when ye go out of that city, shake off the very dust
from your feet for a testimony against them. 9:6 And they departed, and
went through the towns, preaching the gospel, and healing every where…
12:11 And when they bring you unto the synagogues, and unto magistrates,
and powers, take ye no thought how or what thing ye shall answer, or what
ye shall say: 12:12 For the Holy Ghost shall teach you in the same hour what
ye ought to say…
21:12 But before all these, they shall lay their hands on you, and persecute
you, delivering you up to the synagogues, and into prisons, being brought
before kings and rulers for my name's sake. 21:13 And it shall turn to you
for a testimony. 21:14 Settle it therefore in your hearts, not to meditate
before what ye shall answer: 21:15 For I will give you a mouth and wisdom,
which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist. 21:16 And
ye shall be betrayed both by parents, and brethren, and kinsfolks, and
friends; and some of you shall they cause to be put to death. 21:17 And ye

JESUS † The Complete Biography
shall be hated of all men for my name's sake. 21:18 But there shall not an
hair of your head perish.149 21:19 In your patience possess ye your souls.
The last section of this discourse of Jesus to his disciples upon sending
them forth is found in the Gospel of Matthew and the Gospel of Luke,
but there are only scattered quotes from it in the Gospel of Mark.  We
will begin again with the Gospel of Matthew:
10:26 Fear them not therefore: for there is nothing covered, that shall not
be revealed; and hid, that shall not be known. 10:27 What I tell you in
darkness, that speak ye in light: and what ye hear in the ear, that preach
ye upon the housetops. 10:28 And fear not them which kill the body, but
are not able to kill the soul: but rather fear him which is able to destroy
both soul and body in hell. 10:29 Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing?
and one of them shall not fall on the ground without your Father. 10:30 But
the very hairs of your head are all numbered. 10:31 Fear ye not therefore,
ye are of more value than many sparrows. 10:32 Whosoever therefore shall
confess me before men, him will I confess also before my Father which is in
heaven. 10:33 But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny
before my Father which is in heaven. 10:34 Think not that I am come to
send peace on earth: I came not to send peace, but a sword. 10:35 For I am
come to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against
her mother, and the daughter in law against her mother in law. 10:36 And a
man's foes shall be they of his own household. 10:37 He that loveth father
or mother more than me is not worthy of me: and he that loveth son or
daughter more than me is not worthy of me. 10:38 And he that taketh not
his cross, and followeth after me, is not worthy of me. 10:39 He that findeth
his life shall lose it: and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it.
15010:40 He that receiveth you receiveth me, and he that receiveth me
receiveth him that sent me.151 10:41 He that receiveth a prophet in the name
of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward; and he that receiveth a
righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous
man's reward. 10:42 And whosoever shall give to drink unto one of these
little ones a cup of cold water only in the name of a disciple, verily I say
unto you, he shall in no wise lose his reward.152 11:1 And it came to pass, when

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Jesus had made an end of commanding his twelve disciples, he departed
thence to teach and to preach in their cities.
The  Gospel of Luke continues in similar fashion, but begins with a
reverse image of the statement in the Gospel of Matthew:
10:16 He that heareth you heareth me; and he that despiseth you despiseth
me; and he that despiseth me despiseth him that sent me…
12:2 For there is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed; neither hid,
that shall not be known. 12:3 Therefore whatsoever ye have spoken in
darkness shall be heard in the light; and that which ye have spoken in the
ear in closets shall be proclaimed upon the housetops. 12:4 And I say unto
you my friends, Be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after that
have no more that they can do. 12:5 But I will forewarn you whom ye shall
fear: Fear him, which after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell; yea, I
say unto you, Fear him. 12:6 Are not five sparrows sold for two farthings,
and not one of them is forgotten before God? 12:7 But even the very hairs
of your head are all numbered. Fear not therefore: ye are of more value
than many sparrows. 12:8 Also I say unto you, Whosoever shall confess me
before men, him shall the Son of man also confess before the angels of
God: 12:9 But he that denieth me before men shall be denied before the
angels of God. 15312:10 And whosoever shall speak a word against the Son
of man, it shall be forgiven him: but unto him that blasphemeth against the
Holy Ghost it shall not be forgiven…
12:51 Suppose ye that I am come to give peace on earth? I tell you, Nay; but
rather division: 12:52 For from henceforth there shall be five in one house
divided, three against two, and two against three. 12:53 The father shall be
divided against the son, and the son against the father; the mother against
the daughter, and the daughter against the mother; the mother in law
against her daughter in law, and the daughter in law against her mother in
law…
14:26 If any man come to me, and hate not his father, and mother, and wife,
and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he
cannot be my disciple. 14:27 And whosoever doth not bear his cross, and
come after me, cannot be my disciple.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
17:33 Whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it; and whosoever shall
lose his life shall preserve it.154
The  Gospel  of  Luke also  records  that  Jesus  sent  out  seventy  other
disciples:
10:1 After these things the LORD appointed other seventy also, and sent
them two and two before his face into every city and place, whither he
himself would come. 10:2 Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is
great,  but the labourers  are few:  pray ye therefore the Lord of  the
harvest, that he would send forth labourers into his harvest. 10:3 Go your
ways: behold, I send you forth as lambs among wolves. 10:4 Carry neither
purse, nor scrip, nor shoes: and salute no man by the way. 10:5 And into
whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace be to this house. 10:6 And if
the son of peace be there, your peace shall rest upon it: if not, it shall turn
to you again.10:7 And in the same house remain, eating and drinking such
things as they give: for the labourer is worthy of his hire. Go not from
house to house. 10:8 And into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive
you, eat such things as are set before you: 10:9 And heal the sick that are
therein, and say unto them, The kingdom of God is come nigh unto you.
10:10 But into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you not, go your
ways out into the streets of the same, and say, 10:11 Even the very dust of
your  city,  which  cleaveth  on  us,  we  do  wipe  off  against  you:
notwithstanding be ye sure of this, that the kingdom of God is come nigh
unto you. 10:12 But I say unto you, that it shall be more tolerable in that
day for Sodom, than for that city. 10:13 Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto
thee, Bethsaida! for if the mighty works had been done in Tyre and Sidon,
which have been done in you, they had a great while ago repented, sitting
in sackcloth and ashes. 10:14 But it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and
Sidon at the judgment, than for you. 10:15 And thou, Capernaum, which art
exalted to heaven, shalt be thrust down to hell. 10:16 He that heareth you
heareth  me;  and  he  that  despiseth  you  despiseth  me;  and  he  that
despiseth me despiseth him that sent me. 10:17 And the seventy returned
again with joy, saying, Lord, even the devils are subject unto us through

JESUS † The Complete Biography
thy name. 10:18 And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from
heaven. 10:19 Behold, I give unto you power to tread on serpents and
scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy: and nothing shall by any
means hurt you. 10:20 Notwithstanding in this rejoice not, that the spirits
are subject unto you; but rather rejoice, because your names are written in
heaven. 10:21 In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit, and said, I thank thee, O
Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hid these things from the
wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes: even so, Father; for
so it seemed good in thy sight. 10:22 All things are delivered to me of my
Father: and no man knoweth who the Son is, but the Father; and who the
Father is, but the Son, and he to whom the Son will reveal him.155 10:23 And
he turned him unto his disciples, and said privately, Blessed are the eyes
which see the things that ye see: 10:24 For I tell you, that many prophets
and kings have desired to see those things which ye see, and have not seen
them; and to hear those things which ye hear, and have not heard them.
Annointing of the Disciples to be Missionaries
Most likely it is prior to the execution of John, that there comes an event of
great significance, reported in the three synoptic Gospels—Jesus anoints
his followers to carry out his mission on his behalf: first the  Gospel of
Matthew, which is the most detailed on this account:
9:37 Then saith he unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous, but
the labourers are few; 9:38 Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that
he will send forth labourers into his harvest.  10:1 And when he had called
unto him his twelve disciples, he gave them power against unclean spirits, to
cast them out, and to heal all manner of sickness and all manner of disease.
10:2 Now the names of the twelve apostles are these; The first, Simon, who
is called Peter, and Andrew his brother; James the son of Zebedee, and
John his brother; 10:3 Philip, and Bartholomew; Thomas, and Matthew the
publican; James the son of Alphaeus, and Lebbaeus, whose surname was
Thaddaeus;  10:4  Simon  the  Canaanite,  and  Judas  Iscariot,  who  also
betrayed him.
The Gospel of Mark tells the same story:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
6:7 And he called unto him the twelve, and began to send them forth by two
and two; and gave them power over unclean spirits; 6:8 And commanded
them that they should take nothing for their journey, save a staff only; no
scrip, no bread, no money in their purse: 6:9 But be shod with sandals; and
not put on two coats.  6:10 And he said unto them, In what place soever ye
enter into an house, there abide till ye depart from that place.  6:11 And
whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear you, when ye depart thence,
shake off the dust under your feet for a testimony against them. Verily I
say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrha in the
day of judgment, than for that city.
The Gospel of Luke is the most parsimonious in detail in this case:
9:1 Then he called his twelve disciples together, and gave them power and
authority over all devils, and to cure diseases.  9:2 And he sent them to
preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick.  9:3 And he said unto
them,  Take nothing for your journey, neither staves, nor scrip, neither
bread, neither money; neither have two coats apiece.  9:4 And whatsoever
house ye enter into, there abide, and thence depart.  9:5 And whosoever
will not receive you, when ye go out of that city, shake off the very dust
from your feet for a testimony against them.
The discourse of Jesus as he sent off his twelve disciples to preach and heal
is recorded in the Gospel of Matthew:
10:5 These twelve Jesus sent forth, and commanded them, saying,
Go  not  into  the  way of  the  Gentiles, and into  any  city  of  the
Samaritans enter ye not: 10:6 But go rather to the lost sheep of the
house of Israel.  10:7 And as ye go, preach, saying, The kingdom of
heaven is at hand.  10:8 Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the
dead, cast out devils: freely ye have received, freely give.  10:9
Provide neither gold, nor silver, nor brass in your purses, 10:10 Nor
scrip for your journey, neither two coats, neither shoes, nor yet
staves:  for  the  workman  is  worthy  of  his  meat.   10:11  And  into

JESUS † The Complete Biography
whatsoever city or town ye shall enter, enquire who in it is worthy;
and there abide till ye go thence.  10:12 And when ye come into an
house, salute it.  10:13 And if the house be worthy, let your peace
come upon it: but if it be not worthy, let your peace return to you.
10:14 And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear your words,
when ye depart out of that house or city, shake off the dust of your
feet.  10:15 Verily I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for the
land of Sodom and Gomorrha in the day of judgment, than for that
city.  10:16 Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves:
be ye therefore wise as serpents, and harmless as doves.  10:17 But
beware of men: for they will deliver you up to the councils, and they
will scourge you in their synagogues; 10:18 And ye shall be brought
before governors and kings for my sake, for a testimony against
them and the Gentiles.  10:19 But when they deliver you up, take no
thought how or what ye shall speak: for it shall be given you in that
same hour what ye shall speak.  10:20 For it is not ye that speak, but
the Spirit of your Father which speaketh in you.  10:21 And the
brother shall deliver up the brother to death, and the father the
child: and the children shall rise up against their parents, and cause
them to be put to death.  10:22 And ye shall be hated of all men for
my name's sake: but he that endureth to the end shall be saved.
10:23 But when they persecute you in this city, flee ye into another:
for verily I say unto you, Ye shall not have gone over the cities of
Israel, till the Son of man be come.  10:24 The disciple is not above
his master, nor the servant above his lord.  10:25 It is enough for the
disciple that he be as his master, and the servant as his lord. If they
have called the master of the house Beelzebub, how much more
shall  they  call  them  of  his  household?  10:26  Fear  them  not
therefore: for there is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed;
and hid, that shall not be known.  10:27 What I tell you in darkness,
that speak ye in light: and what ye hear in the ear, that preach ye

JESUS † The Complete Biography
upon the housetops.  10:28 And fear not them which kill the body,
but are not able to kill the soul: but rather fear him which is able to
destroy both soul and body in hell.  10:29 Are not two sparrows sold
for a farthing? and one of them shall not fall on the ground without
your  Father.   10:30  But  the  very  hairs  of  your  head  are  all
numbered.  10:31 Fear ye not therefore, ye are of more value than
many sparrows.  10:32 Whosoever therefore shall confess me before
men, him will I confess also before my Father which is in heaven.
10:33 But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny
before my Father which is in heaven.  10:34 Think not that I am come
to send peace on earth: I came not to send peace, but a sword.
10:35 For I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and
the daughter against her mother, and the daughter in law against
her mother in law.  10:36 And a man's foes shall be they of his own
household.  10:37 He that loveth father or mother more than me is
not worthy of me: and he that loveth son or daughter more than me
is not worthy of me.  10:38 And he that taketh not his cross, and
followeth after me, is not worthy of me.  10:39 He that findeth his life
shall lose it: and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it.  10:40
He  that  receiveth  you  receiveth  me,  and  he  that  receiveth  me
receiveth him that sent me.  10:41 He that receiveth a prophet in the
name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward; and he that
receiveth a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall
receive a righteous man's reward.  10:42 And whosoever shall give to
drink unto one of these little ones a cup of cold water only in the
name of a disciple, verily I say unto you, he shall in no wise lose his
reward.  11:1 And it came to pass, when Jesus had made an end of
commanding his twelve disciples, he departed thence to teach and
to preach in their cities.
The envoys from John in prison

JESUS † The Complete Biography
While John is in prison, he hears from his followers that Jesus is baptizing,
and, beyond that, he is healing and preaching the coming of the kingdom
of God.  This is recorded in the Gospel of Matthew:
11:2 Now when John had heard in the prison the works of Christ, he sent
two of his disciples, 11:3 And said unto him, Art thou he that should come,
or do we look for another? 11:4 Jesus answered and said unto them, Go
and shew John again those things which ye do hear and see: 11:5 The blind
receive their sight, and the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf
hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached to
them.  11:6 And blessed is he, whosoever shall not be offended in me.
This story is found also in the Gospel of Luke:
7:16 And there came a fear on all: and they glorified God, saying, That a
great prophet is risen up among us; and, That God hath visited his people.
7:17  And  this  rumour  of  him  went  forth  throughout  all  Judaea,  and
throughout all the region round about. 7:18 And the disciples of John
shewed him of all these things. 7:19 And John calling unto him two of his
disciples sent them to Jesus, saying, Art thou he that should come? or look
we for another? 7:20 When the men were come unto him, they said, John
Baptist hath sent us unto thee, saying, Art thou he that should come? or
look we for another? 7:21 And in that same hour he cured many of their
infirmities and plagues, and of evil spirits; and unto many that were blind he
gave sight. 7:22 Then Jesus answering said unto them, Go your way, and
tell John what things ye have seen and heard; how that the blind see, the
lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, to
the poor the gospel is preached. 7:23 And blessed is he, whosoever shall
not be offended in me.
This may appear to be an odd story, considering the many attestations to
John being aware of the spiritual station of Jesus, including those found
both in the Gospel of Matthew and the Gospel of John.  Was John unsure
of the station of Jesus, after having affirmed that station at the time of his
baptism?  It is likely that John sent his followers to Jesus so that they
might hear from his lips what John already knew to be the truth—that

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Jesus was the Davidic messiah, “he that should come”.  They were, after
all, followers of John, loyal to him, and only by hearing directly from Jesus
could they recognize him as the one prophesied by John, and thereby
become the disciples of the messiah himself.
The  Gospel of Matthew reports a discourse given by Jesus about his
cousin John immediately upon the departure of John’s envoys:
11:7 And as they departed, Jesus began to say unto the multitudes
concerning John,  What went ye out into the wilderness to see? A
reed shaken with the wind? 11:8 But what went ye out for to see? A
man clothed in soft raiment? behold, they that wear soft clothing
are  in  kings'  houses.  11:9  But  what  went  ye  out  for  to  see?  A
prophet? yea, I say unto you, and more than a prophet. 11:10 For
this is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before
thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee. 11:11 Verily I say
unto you, Among them that are born of women there hath not risen
a greater than John the Baptist: notwithstanding he that is least in
the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. 11:12 And from the days of
John  the  Baptist  until  now  the  kingdom  of  heaven  suffereth
violence, and the violent take it by force. 11:13 For all the prophets
and the law prophesied until John. 11:14 And if ye will receive it, this is
Elias [Elijah], which was for to come. 11:15 He that hath ears to hear,
let him hear. 11:16 But whereunto shall I liken this generation? It is like
unto children sitting in the markets, and calling unto their fellows,
11:17 And saying, We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced;
we have mourned unto you, and ye have not lamented.
The same story is told in the Gospel of Luke:
7:24 And when the messengers of John were departed, he began to speak
unto the people concerning John, What went ye out into the wilderness for
to see? A reed shaken with the wind? 7:25 But what went ye out for to see?
A  man  clothed  in  soft  raiment?  Behold,  they  which  are  gorgeously
apparelled, and live delicately, are in kings' courts. 7:26 But what went ye

JESUS † The Complete Biography
out for to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you, and much more than a
prophet. 7:27 This is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger
before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee. 7:28 For I say
unto you, Among those that are born of women there is not a greater
prophet than John the Baptist: but he that is least in the kingdom of God
is  greater  than  he. 7:29  And  all  the  people  that  heard  him,  and  the
publicans, justified God, being baptized with the baptism of John.
In the Gospel of Matthew, the discourse continues:
11:18 For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He hath a
devil.  11:19 The Son of man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold
a man gluttonous, and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners. But
wisdom is justified of her children.  11:20 Then began he to upbraid the
cities wherein most of his mighty works were done, because they repented
not: 11:21 Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the
mighty works, which were done in you, had been done in Tyre and Sidon,
they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.  11:22 But I say
unto you, It shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the day of
judgment, than for you.  11:23 And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted unto
heaven, shalt be brought down to hell: for if the mighty works, which have
been done in thee, had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until
this day.  11:24 But I say unto you, That it shall be more tolerable for the
land of Sodom in the day of judgment, than for thee.  11:25 At that time
Jesus answered and said,  I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and
earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and
hast revealed them unto babes.  11:26 Even so, Father: for so it seemed
good in thy sight.  11:27 All things are delivered unto me of my Father: and
no man knoweth the Son, but the Father; neither knoweth any man the
Father, save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal him.  11:28
Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you
rest.  11:29 Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and
lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.  11:30 For my yoke is
easy, and my burden is light.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The execution of John the Baptist
While there are no particular indications in the Gospels that will enable us
to date the beheading of John, we will see shortly that there are good
reasons to believe that it occurred during the early period of his ministry.
Herod Antipas wanted to silence John permanently, but he was afraid of
executing him because the people considered John to be a prophet and
Herod  didn’t  want  trouble.   Josephus  describes  this  situation  in
“Antiquities of the Jews” (18.5.2 116-119):
“Now some of the Jews thought that the destruction of Herod's army came
from God, and was a very just punishment for what he did against John
called the baptist  [the dipper]. For Herod had him killed, although he was
a good man and had urged the Jews to exert themselves to virtue, both as
to justice toward one another and reverence towards God, and having
done so join together in washing. For immersion in water, it was clear to him,
could not be used for the forgiveness of sins, but as a sanctification of the
body, and only if the soul was already thoroughly purified by right actions.
And when others massed about him, for they were very greatly moved by
his words, Herod, who feared that such strong influence over the people
might carry to a revolt -- for they seemed ready to do any thing he should
advise -- believed it much better to move now than later have it raise a
rebellion and engage him in actions he would regret.
And  so  John,  out  of  Herod's  suspiciousness,  was  sent  in  chains  to
Machaerus, the fort previously mentioned, and there put to death; but it
was the opinion of the Jews that out of retribution for John God willed the
destruction of the army so as to afflict Herod.”
The shortest report of the execution of John among the canonical Gospels
is found in the Gospel of Luke:
9:9 And Herod said, John have I beheaded...
The Gospel of Matthew tells the story of how John came to be martyred
with some details:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
14:6  But  when  Herod's  birthday  was  kept,  the  daughter  of  Herodias
danced before them, and pleased Herod.  14:7 Whereupon he promised
with an oath to give her whatsoever she would ask.  14:8 And she, being
before instructed of her mother, said, Give me here John Baptist's head in
a charger.  14:9 And the king was sorry: nevertheless for the oath's sake,
and them which sat with him at meat, he commanded it to be given her.
14:10 And he sent, and beheaded John in the prison.  14:11 And his head
was brought in a charger, and given to the damsel: and she brought it to
her mother.  14:12 And his disciples came, and took up the body, and
buried it, and went and told Jesus.
The Gospel of Mark tells this story as well, but with more rather than
less detail:
6:19 Therefore Herodias had a quarrel against him, and would have
killed him; but she could not: 6:20 For Herod feared John, knowing
that he was a just man and an holy, and observed him; and when he
heard him, he did many things, and heard him gladly.  6:21 And when
a convenient day was come, that Herod on his birthday made a
supper to his lords, high captains, and chief estates of Galilee; 6:22
And when the daughter of the said Herodias came in, and danced,
and pleased Herod and them that sat with him, the king said unto
the damsel, Ask of me whatsoever thou wilt, and I will give it thee.
6:23 And he sware unto her, Whatsoever thou shalt ask of me, I will
give it thee, unto the half of my kingdom.  6:24 And she went forth,
and said unto her mother, What shall I ask? And she said, The head
of John the Baptist.  6:25 And she came in straightway with haste
unto the king, and asked, saying, I will that thou give me by and by in
a charger the head of John the Baptist.  6:26 And the king was
exceeding sorry; yet for his oath's sake, and for their sakes which
sat with him, he would not reject her.  6:27 And immediately the king
sent an executioner, and commanded his head to be brought: and
he went and beheaded him in the prison, 6:28 And brought his head

JESUS † The Complete Biography
in a charger, and gave it to the damsel: and the damsel gave it to her
mother.  6:29 And when his disciples heard of it, they came and took
up his corpse, and laid it in a tomb.  6:30 And the apostles gathered
themselves together unto Jesus, and told him all things, both what
they had done, and what they had taught.  6:31 And he said unto
them,  Come ye yourselves apart into a desert place, and rest a
while: for there were many coming and going, and they had no
leisure so much as to eat.  6:32 And they departed into a desert
place by ship privately.
It was then that the inevitable occurred…John was beheaded.  We will
begin with the account in the Gospel of Matthew:
14:3 For Herod had laid hold on John, and bound him, and put him in
prison for Herodias' sake, his brother Philip's wife. 14:4 For John said unto
him, It is not lawful for thee to have her. 14:5 And when he would have put
him to death, he feared the multitude, because they counted him as a
prophet.  14:6  But  when  Herod's  birthday  was  kept,  the  daughter  of
Herodias danced before them, and pleased Herod. 14:7 Whereupon he
promised with an oath156 to give her whatsoever she would ask. 14:8 And
she, being before instructed of  her mother,  said,  Give me here  John
Baptist's head in a charger. 14:9 And the king was sorry: nevertheless for
the oath's sake, and them which sat with him at meat, he commanded it to
be given her. 14:10 And he sent, and beheaded John in the prison. 14:11 And
his head was brought in a charger, and given to the damsel: and she
brought it to her mother. 14:12 And his disciples came, and took up the
body, and buried it, and went and told Jesus.
The Gospel of Mark tells the same story, but again in more detail:
6:19 Therefore Herodias had a quarrel against him157, and would have
killed him; but she could not: 6:20 For Herod feared John, knowing
that he was a just man and an holy, and observed him; and when he
heard him, he did many things, and heard him gladly. 6:21 And when

JESUS † The Complete Biography
a convenient day was come, that Herod on his birthday made a
supper to his lords, high captains, and chief estates of Galilee; 6:22
And when the daughter of the said Herodias came in, and danced,
and pleased Herod and them that sat with him, the king said unto
the damsel, Ask of me whatsoever thou wilt, and I will give it thee.
6:23 And he sware unto her, Whatsoever thou shalt ask of me, I will
give it thee, unto the half of my kingdom. 6:24 And she went forth,
and said unto her mother, What shall I ask? And she said, The head
of John the Baptist. 6:25 And she came in straightway with haste
unto the king, and asked, saying, I will that thou give me by and by in
a charger the head of John the Baptist.  6:26 And the king was
exceeding sorry; yet for his oath's sake, and for their sakes which
sat with him, he would not reject her. 6:27 And immediately the king
sent an executioner, and commanded his head to be brought: and
he went and beheaded him in the prison, 6:28 And brought his head
in a charger, and gave it to the damsel: and the damsel gave it to her
mother. 6:29 And when his disciples heard of it, they came and took
up his corpse, and laid it in a tomb. 6:30 And the apostles gathered
themselves together unto Jesus, and told him all things, both what
they had done, and what they had taught.
The  Gospel of Luke  refers very briefly to the beheading of John, the
Gospel of John not at all:
9:9 And Herod said, John have I beheaded: but who is this, of whom I hear
such things? And he desired to see him. 9:10 And the apostles, when they
were returned, told him all that they had done. And he took them, and went
aside privately into a desert place belonging to the city called Bethsaida.
Jesus visits the Tetrarchy of Philip

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Jesus responded to the execution of John by leaving the city and returning
to the wilderness.    The Gospel of Matthew tells this part of the story:
14:12 And his disciples came, and took up the body, and buried it,
and went and told Jesus.  14:13 When Jesus heard of it, he departed
thence by ship into a desert place apart: and when the people had
heard thereof, they followed him on foot out of the cities.  14:14
And Jesus went forth, and saw a great multitude, and was moved
with compassion toward them, and he healed their sick.  14:15 And
when it was evening, his disciples came to him, saying,  This is a
desert place, and the time is now past; send the multitude away, that
they may go into the villages, and buy themselves victuals.  14:16 But
Jesus said unto them, They need not depart; give ye them to eat.
14:17 And they say unto him, We have here but five loaves, and two
fishes.   14:18  He  said,  Bring  them  hither  to  me.   14:19  And  he
commanded the multitude to sit down on the grass, and took the five
loaves, and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed,
and brake, and gave the loaves to his disciples, and the disciples to
the multitude.  14:20 And they did all eat, and were filled: and they
took up of the fragments that remained twelve baskets full.  14:21
And they that had eaten were about five thousand men, beside
women and children.  14:22 And straightway Jesus constrained his
disciples to get into a ship, and to go before him unto the other
side, while he sent the multitudes away.  14:23 And when he had sent
the multitudes away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray: and
when the evening was come, he was there alone.  14:24 But the ship
was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves: for the wind was
contrary.  14:25 And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went
unto them, walking on the sea.  14:26 And when the disciples saw him
walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a spirit; and they
cried out for fear.  14:27 But straightway Jesus spake unto them,
saying,  Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid.  14:28 And Peter

JESUS † The Complete Biography
answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on
the water.   14:29 And he said,  Come. And when Peter was come
down out of the ship, he walked on the water, to go to Jesus.  14:30
But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid; and beginning
to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me.  14:31 And immediately Jesus
stretched forth his hand, and caught him, and said unto him, O thou
of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt? 14:32 And when they
were come into the ship, the wind ceased.  14:33 Then they that were
in the ship came and worshipped him, saying, Of a truth thou art the
Son of God.  14:34 And when they were gone over, they came into
the land of Gennesaret.
The  Gospel  of  Mark likewise  tells  the  story  of  this  sojourn  in  the
wilderness and away from the cities:
6:29 And when his disciples heard of it, they came and took up his
corpse, and laid it in a tomb.  6:30 And the apostles gathered
themselves together unto Jesus, and told him all things, both what
they had done, and what they had taught.  6:31 And he said unto
them,  Come ye yourselves apart into a desert place, and rest a
while: for there were many coming and going, and they had no
leisure so much as to eat.  6:32 And they departed into a desert
place by ship privately.  6:33 And the people saw them departing,
and many knew him, and ran afoot thither out of all cities, and
outwent them, and came together unto him.  6:34 And Jesus, when
he came out, saw much people, and was moved with compassion
toward them, because they were as sheep not having a shepherd:
and he began to teach them many things.  6:35 And when the day
was now far spent, his disciples came unto him, and said, This is a
desert place, and now the time is far passed: 6:36 Send them away,
that they may go into the country round about, and into the villages,
and buy themselves bread: for they have nothing to eat.  6:37 He

JESUS † The Complete Biography
answered and said unto them,  Give ye them to eat. And they say
unto him, Shall we go and buy two hundred pennyworth of bread,
and give them to eat?  6:38 He saith unto them,  How many loaves
have ye? go and see. And when they knew, they say, Five, and two
fishes.  6:39 And he commanded them to make all sit down by
companies upon the green grass.  6:40 And they sat down in ranks,
by hundreds, and by fifties. 6:41 And when he had taken the five
loaves and the two fishes, he looked up to heaven, and blessed, and
brake the loaves, and gave them to his disciples to set before them;
and the two fishes divided he among them all.  6:42 And they did all
eat, and were filled.  6:43 And they took up twelve baskets full of
the fragments, and of the fishes.  6:44 And they that did eat of the
loaves were about five thousand men.  6:45 And straightway he
constrained his disciples to get into the ship, and to go to the other
side before unto Bethsaida, while he sent away the people.  6:46
And when he had sent them away, he departed into a mountain to
pray.  6:47 And when even was come, the ship was in the midst of
the sea, and he alone on the land.  6:48 And he saw them toiling in
rowing; for the wind was contrary unto them: and about the fourth
watch of the night he cometh unto them, walking upon the sea, and
would have passed by them.  6:49 But when they saw him walking
upon the sea, they supposed it had been a spirit, and cried out:
6:50 For they all saw him, and were troubled. And immediately he
talked with them, and saith unto them, Be of good cheer: it is I; be
not afraid.  6:51 And he went up unto them into the ship; and the
wind ceased: and they were sore amazed in themselves beyond
measure, and wondered.  6:52 For they considered not the miracle
of the loaves: for their heart was hardened.  6:53 And when they
had passed over, they came into the land of Gennesaret, and drew
to the shore.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
While the Gospels of Matthew and Mark date this retreat to the wilderness
right after the execution of John, the Gospel of Luke seems to have placed
it in the wrong chronological order.  It indicates that Herod Antipas, after
the beheading of John, asked who he might be, who was preaching and
calling to repentance and healing, if he was the return of John, or someone
else…and  this  the  Gospel  of  Luke places  before  the  sojourn  in  the
wilderness:
9:7 Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done by him: and
he was perplexed, because that it was said of some, that John was
risen from the dead; 9:8 And of some, that Elias had appeared; and
of others, that one of the old prophets was risen again. 9:9 And
Herod said, John have I beheaded: but who is this, of whom I hear
such things?  And he desired to see him.  9:10 And the apostles,
when they were returned, told him all that they had done. And he
took them, and went aside privately into a desert place belonging to
the city called Bethsaida.  9:11 And the people, when they knew it,
followed him: and he received them, and spake unto them of the
kingdom of God, and healed them that had need of healing.
Up until this point it looks like Luke is telling a different story, one that
would take place weeks or months after the execution of John.  However,
the Gospel of Luke then continues:
9:12 And when the day began to wear away, then came the
twelve, and said unto him, Send the multitude away, that they
may go into the towns and country round about, and lodge,
and get victuals: for we are here in a desert place.  9:13 But he
said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they said, We have
no more but five loaves and two fishes; except we should go
and buy meat for all this people.  9:14 For they were about five
thousand men. And he said to his disciples,  Make them sit
down by fifties in a company.  9:15 And they did so, and made
them all sit down.  9:16 Then he took the five loaves and the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed them, and
brake, and gave to the disciples to set before the multitude.
9:17 And they did eat, and were all filled: and there was taken
up of fragments that remained to them twelve baskets.
Although the  Gospel of John  does not indicate that this took place
shortly after the execution of John, his account is virtually identical in
most details with that of the Gospels of Matthew and Mark:
6:1 After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee, which is the
sea of Tiberias.  6:2 And a great multitude followed him, because
they saw his miracles which he did on them that were diseased.  6:3
And Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he sat with his
disciples.  6:4 And the passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh.  6:5
When Jesus then lifted up his eyes, and saw a great company come
unto him, he saith unto Philip,  Whence shall we buy bread, that
these may eat? 6:6 And this he said to prove him: for he himself
knew what he would do.  6:7 Philip answered him,  Two hundred
pennyworth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one of
them may take a little.  6:8 One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon
Peter's brother, saith unto him, 6:9 There is a lad here, which hath
five barley loaves, and two small fishes: but what are they among so
many? 6:10 And Jesus said, Make the men sit down. Now there was
much grass in the place. So the men sat down, in number about five
thousand.  6:11 And Jesus took the loaves; and when he had given
thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them
that were set down; and likewise of the fishes as much as they
would. 6:12 When they were filled, he said unto his disciples, Gather
up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost. 6:13 Therefore
they gathered them together, and filled twelve baskets with the
fragments of the five barley loaves, which remained over and above
unto them that had eaten. 6:14 Then those men, when they had seen

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the miracle that Jesus did, said, This is of a truth that prophet that
should come into the world. 6:15 When Jesus therefore perceived
that they would come and take him by force, to make him a king, he
departed again into a mountain himself alone. 6:16 And when even
was now come, his disciples went down unto the  sea, 6:17 And
entered into a ship, and went over the sea toward Capernaum. And
it was now dark, and Jesus was not come to them. 6:18 And the sea
arose by reason of a great wind that blew. 6:19 So when they had
rowed about five and twenty or thirty furlongs, they see Jesus
walking on the sea, and drawing nigh unto the ship: and they were
afraid. 6:20 But he saith unto them, It is I; be not afraid. 6:21 Then
they willingly received him into the ship: and immediately the ship
was at the land whither they went. 6:22 The day following, when the
people which stood on the other side of the sea saw that there was
none other boat there, save that one whereinto his disciples were
entered, and that Jesus went not with his disciples into the boat,
but that his disciples were gone away alone; 6:23 (Howbeit there
came other boats from Tiberias nigh unto the place where they did
eat bread, after that the Lord had given thanks:) 6:24 When the
people therefore saw that Jesus was not there, neither his disciples,
they  also  took  shipping,  and  came  to  Capernaum,  seeking  for
Jesus.  6:25 And when they had found him on the other side of the
sea, they said unto him, Rabbi, when camest thou hither?
All of the canonical Gospels indicate that at this juncture, Jesus left the
Galilee, journeyed across the Kinneret and abode awhile in the Tetrarchy
of Philip, referred to as “a desert place” in the Gospels of Matthew and
Mark, and more specifically as “a desert place belonging to the city called
Bethsaida” in the  Gospel of Luke.  We begin with the account in the
Gospel of Matthew:
14:10 And he sent, and beheaded John in the prison. 14:11 And his
head was brought in a charger, and given to the damsel: and she

JESUS † The Complete Biography
brought it to her mother. 14:12 And his disciples came, and took up
the body, and buried it, and went and told Jesus.14:13 When Jesus
heard of it, he departed thence by ship into a desert place apart:
and when the people had heard thereof, they followed him on foot
out of the cities. 14:14 And Jesus went forth, and saw a great
multitude, and was moved with compassion toward them, and he
healed their sick. 14:15 And when it was evening, his disciples came to
him, saying, This is a desert place, and the time is now past; send the
multitude  away,  that  they  may  go  into  the  villages,  and  buy
themselves victuals. 14:16 But Jesus said unto them, They need not
depart; give ye them to eat. 14:17 And they say unto him, We have
here but five loaves, and two fishes. 14:18 He said, Bring them hither
to me.  14:19 And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the
grass, and took the five loaves, and the two fishes, and looking up to
heaven, he blessed, and brake, and gave the loaves to his disciples,
and the disciples to the multitude. 14:20 And they did all eat, and
were filled: and they took up of the fragments that remained twelve
baskets full. 14:21 And they that had eaten were about five thousand
men, beside women and children.
The Gospel of Mark tells this same story, with some important details
missing but otherwise virtually word for word the same as Matthew:
6:25 And she came in straightway with haste unto the king, and
asked, saying, I will that thou give me by and by in a charger the
head of John the Baptist. 6:26 And the king was exceeding sorry;
yet for his oath's sake, and for their sakes which sat with him, he
would  not  reject  her.  6:27  And  immediately  the  king  sent  an
executioner, and commanded his head to be brought: and he went
and beheaded him in the prison, 6:28 And brought his head in a
charger, and gave it to the damsel: and the damsel gave it to her
mother. 6:29 And when his disciples heard of it, they came and took

JESUS † The Complete Biography
up his corpse, and laid it in a tomb. 6:30 And the apostles gathered
themselves together unto Jesus, and told him all things, both what
they had done, and what they had taught. 6:31 And he said unto
them,  Come ye yourselves apart into a desert place, and rest a
while: for there were many coming and going, and they had no
leisure so much as to eat. 6:32 And they departed into a desert
place by ship privately. 6:33 And the people saw them departing,
and many knew him, and ran afoot thither out of all cities, and
outwent them, and came together unto him. 6:34 And Jesus, when
he came out, saw much people, and was moved with compassion
toward them, because they were as sheep not having a shepherd:
and he began to teach them many things. 6:35 And when the day
was now far spent, his disciples came unto him, and said, This is a
desert place, and now the time is far passed: 6:36 Send them away,
that they may go into the country round about, and into the villages,
and buy themselves bread: for they have nothing to eat.  6:37 He
answered and said unto them,  Give ye them to eat.  And they say
unto him, Shall we go and buy two hundred pennyworth of bread,
and give them to eat?  6:38 He saith unto them,  How many loaves
have ye? go and see. And when they knew, they say, Five, and two
fishes. 6:39  And  he  commanded  them  to  make  all  sit  down  by
companies upon the green grass. 6:40 And they sat down in ranks,
by hundreds, and by fifties. 6:41 And when he had taken the five
loaves and the two fishes, he looked up to heaven, and blessed, and
brake the loaves, and gave them to his disciples to set before them;
and the two fishes divided he among them all. 6:42 And they did all
eat, and were filled. 6:43 And they took up twelve baskets full of the
fragments, and of the fishes. 6:44 And they that did eat of the
loaves were about five thousand men.6:45

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The  Gospel  of  Luke refers  to  Jesus  and  the  apostles  journeying  to
Bethsaida, which is a city on the east coast of the Sea of Galilee which is the
most mentioned city in the Gospels, and also referred to by Josephus:
9:9 And Herod said, John have I beheaded: but who is this, of whom
I  hear  such  things?  And  he  desired  to  see  him.  9:10  And  the
apostles, when they were returned, told him all that they had done.
And he took them, and went aside privately into a desert place
belonging to the city called Bethsaida. 9:11 And the people, when
they knew it, followed him: and he received them, and spake unto
them of the kingdom of God, and healed them that had need of
healing. 9:12 And when the day began to wear away, then came the
twelve, and said unto him, Send the multitude away, that they may
go into the towns and country round about, and lodge, and get
victuals: for we are here in a desert place. 9:13 But he said unto
them, Give ye them to eat. And they said, We have no more but five
loaves and two fishes; except we should go and buy meat for all this
people. 9:14 For they were about five thousand men. And he said to
his disciples, Make them sit down by fifties in a company. 9:15 And
they did so, and made them all sit down. 9:16 Then he took the five
loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed
them,  and  brake,  and  gave  to  the  disciples  to  set  before  the
multitude. 9:17 And they did eat, and were all filled: and there was
taken up of fragments that remained to them twelve baskets.
The  Gospel  of  John likewise  tells  the  story  of  this  journey  to  the
Tetrarchy of Philip:
6:1 After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee, which is the
sea of Tiberias. 6:2 And a great multitude followed him, because
they saw his miracles which he did on them that were diseased. 6:3
And Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he sat with his
disciples. 6:4 And the passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh. 6:5

JESUS † The Complete Biography
When Jesus then lifted up his eyes, and saw a great company come
unto him, he saith unto Philip,  Whence shall we buy bread, that
these may eat?  6:6 And this he said to prove him: for he himself
knew what he would do. 6:7 Philip answered him,  Two hundred
pennyworth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one of
them may take a little. 6:8 One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon
Peter's brother, saith unto him, 6:9 There is a lad here, which hath
five barley loaves, and two small fishes: but what are they among so
many? 6:10 And Jesus said, Make the men sit down. Now there was
much grass in the place. So the men sat down, in number about five
thousand. 6:11 And Jesus took the loaves; and when he had given
thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them
that were set down; and likewise of the fishes as much as they
would.
6:12 When they were filled, he said unto his disciples, Gather up the
fragments that remain, that nothing be lost.  6:13 Therefore they
gathered  them  together,  and  filled  twelve  baskets  with  the
fragments of the five barley loaves, which remained over and above
unto them that had eaten. 6:14 Then those men, when they had seen
the miracle that Jesus did, said, This is of a truth that prophet that
should come into the world.  6:15 When Jesus therefore perceived
that they would come and take him by force, to make him a king, he
departed again into a mountain himself alone.
Jesus and disciples return to Galilee
The  Gospel of Matthew describes the return from the Tetrarchy of
Philip  to  the  Galilee,  to  the  city  called  Genezareth,  Genezar  and
Gennesaret, which was situated on the northwest corner of the Kinneret:
14:22 And straightway Jesus constrained his disciples to get into a
ship, and to go before him unto the other side, while he sent the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
multitudes away. 14:23 And when he had sent the multitudes away,
he went up into a mountain apart to pray: and when the evening was
come, he was there alone. 14:24 But the ship was now in the midst of
the sea, tossed with waves: for the wind was contrary. 14:25 And in
the fourth watch of the night Jesus went unto them, walking on the
sea. 14:26 And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they
were troubled, saying, It is a spirit; and they cried out for fear. 14:27
But straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer;
it is I; be not afraid. 14:28 And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if
it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water. 14:29 And he said,
Come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked
on the water, to go to Jesus. 14:30 But when he saw the wind
boisterous, he was afraid; and beginning to sink, he cried, saying,
Lord, save me. 14:31 And immediately Jesus stretched forth his
hand, and caught him, and said unto him,  O thou of little faith,
wherefore didst thou doubt? 14:32 And when they were come into
the ship, the wind ceased. 14:33 Then they that were in the ship
came and worshipped him, saying, Of a truth thou art the Son of
God. 14:34 And when they were gone over, they came into the land
of Gennesaret.
The Gospel of Mark likewise describes this return:
6:45 And straightway he constrained his disciples to get into the
ship, and to go to the other side before unto Bethsaida, while he
sent away the people. 6:46 And when he had sent them away, he
departed into a mountain to pray. 6:47 And when even was come,
the ship was in the midst of the sea, and he alone on the land. 6:48
And he saw them toiling in rowing; for the wind was contrary unto
them: and about the fourth watch of the night he cometh unto them,
walking upon the sea, and would have passed by them. 6:49 But
when they saw him walking upon the sea, they supposed it had been

JESUS † The Complete Biography
a spirit, and cried out: 6:50 For they all saw him, and were troubled.
And immediately he talked with them, and saith unto them,  Be of
good cheer: it is I; be not afraid. 6:51 And he went up unto them into
the  ship;  and  the  wind  ceased:  and  they  were  sore  amazed  in
themselves  beyond  measure,  and  wondered.  6:52  For  they
considered  not  the  miracle  of  the  loaves:  for  their  heart  was
hardened. 6:53 And when they had passed over, they came into the
land of Gennesaret, and drew to the shore.
The Gospel of John likewise describes this return to the Galilee:
6:16 And when even was now come, his disciples went down unto the
sea, 6:17 And entered into a ship, and went over the sea toward
Capernaum. And it was now dark, and Jesus was not come to them.
6:18 And the sea arose by reason of a great wind that blew. 6:19 So
when they had rowed about five and twenty or thirty furlongs, they
see Jesus walking on the sea, and drawing nigh unto the ship: and
they were afraid. 6:20 But he saith unto them, It is I; be not afraid.
6:21 Then they willingly received him into the ship: and immediately
the ship was at the land whither they went. 6:22 The day following,
when the people which stood on the other side of the sea saw that
there  was  none  other  boat  there,  save  that  one  whereinto  his
disciples were entered, and that Jesus went not with his disciples
into the boat, but that his disciples were gone away alone; 6:23
(Howbeit there came other boats from Tiberias nigh unto the place
where they did eat bread, after that the Lord had given thanks:)
6:24 When the people therefore saw that Jesus was not there,
neither  his  disciples,  they  also  took  shipping,  and  came  to
Capernaum, seeking for Jesus. 6:25 And when they had found him
on the other side of the sea, they said unto him, Rabbi, when camest
thou hither? 6:26 Jesus answered them and said, Verily, verily, I say
unto you, Ye seek me, not because ye saw the miracles, but because

JESUS † The Complete Biography
ye did eat of the loaves, and were filled. 6:27 Labour not for the
meat  which  perisheth,  but  for  that  meat  which  endureth  unto
everlasting life, which the Son of man shall give unto you: for him
hath God the Father sealed.  6:28 Then said they unto him,  What
shall we do, that we might work the works of God? 6:29 Jesus
answered and said unto them,  This is the work of God, that ye
believe on him whom he hath sent. 6:30 They said therefore unto
him,  What sign shewest thou then, that we may see, and believe
thee? what dost thou work? 6:31 Our fathers did eat manna in the
desert; as it is written, He gave them bread from heaven to eat. 6:32
Then Jesus said unto them,  Verily, verily, I say unto you, Moses
gave you not that bread from heaven; but my Father giveth you the
true bread from heaven. 6:33 For the bread of God is he which
cometh down from heaven, and giveth life unto the world. 6:34 Then
said they unto him,  Lord, evermore give us this bread. 6:35 And
Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life: he that cometh to me
shall never hunger; and he that believeth on me shall never thirst.
6:36 But I said unto you, That ye also have seen me, and believe not.
6:37 All that the Father giveth me shall come to me; and him that
cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. 6:38 For I came down from
heaven, not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me. 6:39
And this is the Father's will which hath sent me, that of all which he
hath given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at
the last day. 6:40 And this is the will of him that sent me, that every
one which seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may have everlasting
life: and I will raise him up at the last day.  6:41 The Jews then
murmured at him, because he said, I am the bread which came down
from heaven.  6:42 And they said,  Is not this Jesus, the son of
Joseph, whose father and mother we know? how is it then that he
saith, I came down from heaven? 6:43 Jesus therefore answered and
said unto them,  Murmur not among yourselves. 6:44 No man can

JESUS † The Complete Biography
come to me, except the Father which hath sent me draw him: and I
will raise him up at the last day. 6:45 It is written in the prophets,
And they shall be all taught of God. Every man therefore that hath
heard, and hath learned of the Father, cometh unto me. 6:46 Not
that any man hath seen the Father, save he which is of God, he hath
seen the Father. 6:47 Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth
on me hath everlasting life. 6:48 I am that bread of life. 6:49 Your
fathers did eat manna in the wilderness, and are dead. 6:50 This is
the bread which cometh down from heaven, that a man may eat
thereof, and not die. 6:51 I am the living bread which came down from
heaven: if any man eat of this bread, he shall live for ever: and the
bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the
world. 6:52 The Jews therefore strove among themselves, saying,
How can this man give us his flesh to eat? 6:53 Then Jesus said unto
them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except ye eat the flesh of the
Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you. 6:54 Whoso
eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life; and I will
raise him up at the last day. 6:55 For my flesh is meat indeed, and my
blood is drink indeed. 6:56 He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my
blood, dwelleth in me, and I in him. 6:57 As the living Father hath sent
me, and I live by the Father: so he that eateth me, even he shall live
by me. 6:58 This is that bread which came down from heaven: not as
your fathers did eat manna, and are dead: he that eateth of this
bread shall live for ever. 6:59 These things said he in the synagogue,
as he taught in Capernaum. 6:60 Many therefore of his disciples,
when they had heard this, said, This is an hard saying; who can hear
it? 6:61 When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples murmured at it,
he said unto them, Doth this offend you? 6:62 What and if ye shall
see the Son of man ascend up where he was before? 6:63 It is the
spirit that quickeneth; the flesh profiteth nothing: the words that I
speak unto you, they are spirit, and they are life. 6:64 But there are

JESUS † The Complete Biography
some of you that believe not. For Jesus knew from the beginning
who they were that believed not, and who should betray him. 6:65
And he said, Therefore said I unto you, that no man can come unto
me, except it were given unto him of my Father. 6:66 From that time
many of his disciples went back, and walked no more with him. 6:67
Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will ye also go away? 6:68 Then
Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast
the words of eternal life. 6:69 And we believe and are sure that thou
art that Christ, the Son of the living God. 6:70 Jesus answered
them, Have not I chosen you twelve, and one of you is a devil? 6:71
He spake of Judas Iscariot the son of Simon: for he it was that
should betray him, being one of the twelve. 7:1 After these things
Jesus walked in Galilee: for he would not walk in Jewry, because the
Jews sought to kill him.
Jesus returns to Capernaum
After his sojourn on the east side of the Sea of Galilee, Jesus returned to
Capernaum, and again he spoke in the synagogue.  John does not explain
that the people first sought Jesus in Capernaum, then on the other side of
the sea, and that he subsequently returned to Capernaum…but after citing
this discourse, the  Gospel of John states that it was delivered in the
synagogue in Capernaum.  Some things were no doubt left out, but that
was not left out:
6:26 Jesus answered them and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Ye
seek me, not because ye saw the miracles, but because ye did eat of
the loaves, and were filled.  6:27 Labour not for the meat which
perisheth, but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life,
which the Son of man shall give unto you: for him hath God the
Father sealed.  6:28 Then said they unto him, What shall we do, that
we might work the works of God? 6:29 Jesus answered and said
unto them, This is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he

JESUS † The Complete Biography
hath sent.  6:30 They said therefore unto him, What sign shewest
thou then, that we may see, and believe thee? what dost thou work?
6:31 Our fathers did eat manna in the desert; as it is written, He gave
them bread from heaven to eat.  6:32 Then Jesus said unto them,
Verily, verily, I say unto you, Moses gave you not that bread from
heaven; but my Father giveth you the true bread from heaven.  6:33
For the bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven, and
giveth life unto the world.  6:34 Then said they unto him,  Lord,
evermore give us this bread.  6:35 And Jesus said unto them, I am
the bread of life: he that cometh to me shall never hunger; and he
that believeth on me shall never thirst.  6:36 But I said unto you,
That ye also have seen me, and believe not.  6:37 All that the Father
giveth me shall come to me; and him that cometh to me I will in no wise
cast out.  6:38 For I came down from heaven, not to do mine own will,
but the will of him that sent me.  6:39 And this is the Father's will
which hath sent me, that of all which he hath given me I should lose
nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day.  6:40 And this is
the will of him that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son, and
believeth on him, may have everlasting life: and I will raise him up at
the last day.  6:41 The Jews then murmured at him, because he said,
I am the bread which came down from heaven.  6:42 And they said,
Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we
know? how is it then that he saith, I came down from heaven? 6:43
Jesus therefore answered and said unto them, Murmur not among
yourselves.  6:44 No man can come to me, except the Father which
hath sent me draw him: and I will raise him up at the last day.  6:45 It
is written in the prophets, And they shall be all taught of God. Every
man therefore that hath heard, and hath learned of the Father,
cometh unto me.  6:46 Not that any man hath seen the Father, save
he which is of God, he hath seen the Father.  6:47 Verily, verily, I say
unto you, He that believeth on me hath everlasting life.  6:48 I am

JESUS † The Complete Biography
that  bread  of  life.   6:49  Your  fathers  did  eat  manna  in  the
wilderness, and are dead.  6:50 This is the bread which cometh
down from heaven, that a man may eat thereof, and not die.  6:51 I
am the living bread which came down from heaven: if any man eat of
this bread, he shall live for ever: and the bread that I will give is my
flesh, which I will give for the life of the world.  6:52 The Jews
therefore strove among themselves, saying, How can this man give
us his flesh to eat? 6:53 Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I
say unto you, Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink
his blood, ye have no life in you.  6:54 Whoso eateth my flesh, and
drinketh my blood, hath eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last
day.  6:55 For my flesh is meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed.
6:56 He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me,
and I in him.  6:57 As the living Father hath sent me, and I live by the
Father: so he that eateth me, even he shall live by me.  6:58 This is
that bread which came down from heaven: not as your fathers did
eat manna, and are dead: he that eateth of this bread shall live for
ever.  6:59 These things said he in the synagogue, as he taught in
Capernaum.
The  Gospel of John reports that once the crowd had dispersed his
followers spoke with him about what he had said in the synagogue:
6:60 Many therefore of his disciples, when they had heard this,
said, This is an hard saying; who can hear it? 6:61 When Jesus knew
in himself that his disciples murmured at it, he said unto them, Doth
this offend you? 6:62 What and if ye shall see the Son of man
ascend up where he was before? 6:63 It is the spirit that quickeneth;
the flesh profiteth nothing: the words that I speak unto you, they
are spirit, and they are life.  6:64 But there are some of you that
believe not. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that
believed  not,  and  who  should  betray  him.   6:65  And  he  said,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Therefore said I unto you, that no man can come unto me, except it
were given unto him of my Father.  6:66 From that time many of his
disciples went back, and walked no more with him.  6:67 Then said
Jesus unto the twelve, Will ye also go away? 6:68 Then Simon Peter
answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast the words of
eternal life.  6:69 And we believe and are sure that thou art that
Christ, the Son of the living God.  6:70 Jesus answered them, Have
not I chosen you twelve, and one of you is a devil? 6:71 He spake of
Judas Iscariot the son of Simon: for he it was that should betray
him, being one of the twelve.
Prior to the departure of his disciples, Jesus had an encounter with the
Pharisees which defined his relationship to them and to Jewish tradition.
It is a story told in the Gospel of Matthew:
12:1 At that time Jesus went on the sabbath day through the corn;
and his disciples were an hungred, and began to pluck the ears of
corn and to eat.  12:2 But when the Pharisees saw it, they said unto
him, Behold, thy disciples do that which is not lawful to do upon the
sabbath day.  12:3 But he said unto them, Have ye not read what
David did, when he was an hungred, and they that were with him;
12:4  How  he  entered  into  the  house  of  God,  and  did  eat  the
shewbread, which was not lawful for him to eat, neither for them
which were with him, but only for the priests? 12:5 Or have ye not
read in the law, how that on the sabbath days the priests in the
temple profane the sabbath, and are blameless? 12:6 But I say unto
you, That in this place is one greater than the temple.  12:7 But if ye
had known what this meaneth, I will have mercy, and not sacrifice, ye
would not have condemned the guiltless.  12:8 For the Son of man is
Lord even of the sabbath day.
This story is also told in the Gospel of Mark:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
2:23 And it came to pass, that he went through the corn fields on the
sabbath day; and his disciples began, as they went, to pluck the
ears of corn.  2:24 And the Pharisees said unto him, Behold, why do
they on the sabbath day that which is not lawful? 2:25 And he said
unto them, Have ye never read what David did, when he had need,
and was an hungred, he, and they that were with him? 2:26 How he
went into the house of God in the days of Abiathar the high priest,
and did eat the shewbread, which is not lawful to eat but for the
priests, and gave also to them which were with him? 2:27 And he said
unto them,  The sabbath was made for man, and not man for the
sabbath:  2:28  Therefore  the  Son  of  man  is  Lord  also  of  the
sabbath.
The Gospel of Matthew continues with another healing, in a synagogue.
First he plucked corn on the Sabbath, and then he healed on the Sabbath:
12:9  And  when  he  was  departed  thence,  he  went  into  their
synagogue: 12:10 And, behold, there was a man which had his hand
withered. And they asked him, saying,  Is it lawful to heal on the
sabbath days? that they might accuse him.  12:11 And he said unto
them,  What man shall there be among you, that shall have one
sheep, and if it fall into a pit on the sabbath day, will he not lay hold
on it, and lift it out? 12:12 How much then is a man better than a
sheep? Wherefore it is lawful to do well on the sabbath days.  12:13
Then  saith  he  to  the  man,  Stretch  forth  thine  hand. And  he
stretched it forth; and it was restored whole, like as the other.  12:14
Then the Pharisees went out, and held a council against him, how
they might destroy him.
The Gospel of Mark tells the same story in substantially the same terms:
3:1 And he entered again into the synagogue; and there was a man
there  which  had  a  withered  hand.   3:2  And  they  watched  him,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
whether he would heal him on the sabbath day; that they might
accuse him.  3:3 And he saith unto the man which had the withered
hand, Stand forth.  3:4 And he saith unto them, Is it lawful to do
good on the sabbath days, or to do evil? to save life, or to kill? But
they held their peace.  3:5 And when he had looked round about on
them with anger, being grieved for the hardness of their hearts, he
saith unto the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched it
out: and his hand was restored whole as the other.  3:6 And the
Pharisees  went  forth,  and  straightway  took  counsel  with  the
Herodians158 against him, how they might destroy him.
The Gospel of Luke also confirms this story:
6:6 And it came to pass also on another sabbath, that he entered
into the synagogue and taught: and there was a man whose right
hand was withered.  6:7 And the scribes and Pharisees watched him,
whether he would heal on the sabbath day; that they might find an
accusation against him.  6:8 But he knew their thoughts, and said to
the man which had the withered hand, Rise up, and stand forth in
the midst. And he arose and stood forth.  6:9 Then said Jesus unto
them, I will ask you one thing; Is it lawful on the sabbath days to do
good, or to do evil? to save life, or to destroy it? 6:10 And looking
round about upon them all, he said unto the man, Stretch forth thy
hand. And he did so: and his hand was restored whole as the other.
6:11 And they were filled with madness; and communed one with
another what they might do to Jesus.
The Gospel of Luke continues with a brief account of the sequel to this
event:
6:12 And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a
mountain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God.  6:13 And
when it was day, he called unto him his disciples: and of them he

JESUS † The Complete Biography
chose twelve, whom also he named apostles; 6:14 Simon, (whom he
also named Peter,) and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip
and Bartholomew, 6:15 Matthew and Thomas, James the son of
Alphaeus, and Simon called Zelotes, 6:16 And Judas the brother of
James, and Judas Iscariot, which also was the traitor.  6:17 And he
came down with them, and stood in the plain, and the company of
his disciples, and a great multitude of people out of all Judaea and
Jerusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, which came
to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases; 6:18 And they that
were vexed with unclean spirits: and they were healed.  6:19 And the
whole multitude sought to touch him: for there went virtue out of
him, and healed them all.
And the Gospel of Mark continues, in a somewhat different account:
3:7 But Jesus withdrew himself with his disciples to the sea: and a
great multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judaea, 3:8 And
from Jerusalem, and from Idumaea, and from beyond Jordan; and
they about Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, when they had heard
what great things he did, came unto him.  3:9 And he spake to his
disciples,  that  a  small  ship  should  wait  on  him  because  of  the
multitude, lest they should throng him.  3:10 For he had healed
many; insomuch that they pressed upon him for to touch him, as
many as had plagues.  3:11 And unclean spirits, when they saw him,
fell down before him, and cried, saying, Thou art the Son of God.
3:12 And he straitly charged them that they should not make him
known.
The Gospel of Matthew continues much in the same vein as the Gospel
of Mark:
12:15 But when Jesus knew it, he withdrew himself from thence: and
great multitudes followed him, and he healed them all; 12:16 And

JESUS † The Complete Biography
charged them that they should not make him known: 12:17 That it
might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the prophet, saying,
12:18 Behold my servant, whom I have chosen; my beloved, in whom
my soul is well pleased: I will put my spirit upon him, and he shall
shew judgment to the Gentiles.  12:19 He shall not strive, nor cry;
neither shall any man hear his voice in the streets.  12:20 A bruised
reed shall he not break, and smoking flax shall he not quench, till he
send forth judgment unto victory.  12:21 And in his name shall the
Gentiles trust.  12:22 Then was brought unto him one possessed with
a devil, blind, and dumb: and he healed him, insomuch that the blind
and dumb both spake and saw.  12:23 And all the people were
amazed, and said, Is not this the son of David?
After he had ministered to the multitudes, the Gospel of Mark indicates
that Jesus took his disciples with him up into a mountain:
3:13 And he goeth up into a mountain, and calleth unto him whom he
would: and they came unto him.  3:14 And he ordained twelve, that
they should be with him, and that he might send them forth to
preach, 3:15 And to have power to heal sicknesses, and to cast out
devils: 3:16 And Simon he surnamed Peter; 3:17 And James the son of
Zebedee, and John the brother of James; and he surnamed them
Boanerges, which is, The sons of thunder: 3:18 And Andrew, and
Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the
son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Canaanite, 3:19
And Judas Iscariot, which also betrayed him: and they went into an
house.
The Gospel of Matthew likewise indicates that he took his disciples up
into a mountain to speak to them in private, away from the multitudes:
5:1 And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain: and when
he was set,  his disciples came unto him: 5:2 And he opened his

JESUS † The Complete Biography
mouth, and taught them, saying, 5:3 Blessed are the poor in spirit159:
for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.160  5:4 Blessed are they that
mourn: for they shall be comforted.161 5:5 Blessed are the meek: for
they shall inherit the earth. 5:6 Blessed are they which do hunger
and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled.162 5:7 Blessed
are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy.163 5:8 Blessed are the
pure  in  heart:  for  they  shall  see  God.  5:9  Blessed  are  the
peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God. 5:10
Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for
theirs is the kingdom of heaven. 5:11 Blessed are ye, when men shall
revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil
against you falsely, for my sake.164 5:12 Rejoice, and be exceeding
glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the
prophets which were before you.165  5:13 Ye are the salt of the earth:
but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? it is
thenceforth  good  for  nothing,  but  to  be  cast  out,  and  to  be
trodden under foot of men.166  5:14 Ye are the light of the world.

A
city that is set on an hill cannot be hid

. 167  5:15 Neither do men light a
candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth
light unto all that are in the house.168  5:16 Let your light so shine
before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your
Father which is in heaven.  5:17 Think not that I am come to destroy
the law, or the prophets: I am not come to destroy169, but to fulfil.
5:18 For verily I say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or
one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled.170  5:19
Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments,
and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of
heaven: but whosoever shall do and teach them, the same shall be
called great in the kingdom of heaven.  5:20 For I say unto you, That
except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the
scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
heaven.  5:21 Ye have heard that it was said of them of old time,
Thou shalt not kill171; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of
the judgment: 5:22 But I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with
his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment172: and
whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the
council: but whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of
hell fire.  5:23 Therefore if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there
rememberest that thy brother hath ought against thee; 5:24 Leave
there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to
thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift.  5:25 Agree with thine
adversary quickly, whiles thou art in the way with him; lest at any
time the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver
thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison.

5:26 Verily I say


unto thee, Thou shalt by no means come out thence, till thou hast
paid the uttermost farthing.173  5:27 Ye have heard that it was said by
them of old time, Thou shalt not commit adultery174: 5:28 But I say
unto you, That whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her
hath committed adultery with her already in his heart.  5:29 And if
thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee: for it is
profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not
that thy whole body should be cast into hell.175  5:30 And if thy right
hand offend thee, cut it off, and cast it from thee: for it is profitable
for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy
whole  body  should  be  cast  into  hell.176  5:31  It  hath  been  said,
Whosoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing of
divorcement177:  5:32 But I say unto you, That whosoever shall put
away his wife, saving for the cause of fornication, causeth her to
commit adultery: and whosoever shall marry her that is divorced
committeth adultery.178  5:33 Again, ye have heard that it hath been
said by them of old time, Thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shalt
perform unto the Lord thine oaths179: 5:34 But I say unto you, Swear

JESUS † The Complete Biography
not at all; neither by heaven; for it is God's throne: 5:35 Nor by the
earth; for it is his footstool: neither by Jerusalem; for it is the city of
the great King.  5:36 Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because
thou canst not make one hair white or black.  5:37 But let your
communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for whatsoever is more than
these cometh of evil.180  5:38 Ye have heard that it hath been said, An
eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth

: 181 5:39 But I say unto you,
That ye resist not evil: but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right
cheek, turn to him the other also.182  5:40 And if any man will sue
thee at the law, and  take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak
also.183  5:41 And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with
him twain.  5:42 Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that
would borrow of thee turn not thou away.184  5:43 Ye have heard
that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbour, and hate thine
enemy.185  5:44 But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them
that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them
which despitefully use you, and persecute you186; 5:45 That ye may
be the children of your Father which is in heaven: for he maketh his
sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just
and on the unjust.  5:46 For if ye love them which love you, what
reward have ye? do not even the publicans the same? 5:47 And if ye
salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? do not
even the publicans so?187 5:48 Be ye therefore perfect, even as your
Father which is in heaven is perfect.188  6:1 Take heed that ye do not
your alms before men, to be seen of them: otherwise ye have no
reward of your Father which is in heaven.  6:2 Therefore when thou
doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the
hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may
have glory of men. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward.  6:3
But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right
hand doeth: 6:4 That thine alms may be in secret: and thy Father

JESUS † The Complete Biography
which seeth in secret himself shall reward thee openly.  6:5 And
when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are: for they
love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the
streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, They
have their reward.  6:6 But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy
closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which
is in secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee
openly.189  6:7 But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the
heathen do: for they think that they shall be heard for their much
speaking.  6:8 Be not ye therefore like unto them: for your Father
knoweth what things ye have need of, before ye ask him.  6:9 After
this manner therefore pray ye:190 Our Father which art in heaven,
Hallowed be thy name.  6:10 Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done in
earth, as it is in heaven.  6:11 Give us this day our daily bread.  6:12
And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.

6:13 And lead


us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil

: 191  For thine is the
kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Amen.  6:14 For if
ye  forgive  men  their  trespasses,  your  heavenly  Father  will  also
forgive you

:   6:15 But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither


will your Father forgive your trespasses. 192  6:16 Moreover when ye
fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance: for they
disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I
say unto you, They have their reward.  6:17 But thou, when thou
fastest, anoint thine head, and wash thy face; 6:18 That thou appear
not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret: and thy
Father, which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly.  6:19 Lay not
up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth
corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: 6:20 But lay up
for yourselves treasures in heaven,  where neither moth nor rust
doth corrupt,193 and where thieves do not break through nor steal:
6:21 For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.194  6:22

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The light of the body is the eye: if therefore thine eye be single, thy
whole body shall be full of light.  6:23 But if thine eye be evil, thy
whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in
thee be darkness, how great is that darkness!195 6:24 No man can
serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other;
or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot
serve God and mammon. 196 6:25 Therefore I say unto you, Take no
thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor
yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than
meat, and the body than raiment? 6:26 Behold the fowls of the air:
for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet
your heavenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than
they? 6:27 Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto
his stature? 6:28 And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider
the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they
spin: 6:29 And yet I say unto you, That even Solomon in all his glory
was not arrayed like one of these.  6:30 Wherefore, if God so clothe
the grass of the field, which to day is, and to morrow is cast into the
oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith? 6:31
Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall
we drink? or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed? 6:32 (For after all
these  things  do  the  Gentiles  seek:)  for  your  heavenly  Father
knoweth that ye have need of all these things.  6:33 But seek ye first
the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things
shall be added unto you.197  6:34 Take therefore no thought for the
morrow: for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself.
Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.  7:1 Judge not, that ye be
not judged.  7:2 For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged:
and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again.
7:3 And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye,
but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye? 7:4 Or how

JESUS † The Complete Biography
wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the mote out of thine
eye; and, behold, a beam is in thine own eye? 7:5 Thou hypocrite,
first cast out the beam out of thine own eye; and then shalt thou see
clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye.198 7:6 Give not
that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before
swine, lest they trample them under their feet, and turn again and
rend you.199 7:7 Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find;
knock, and it shall be opened unto you: 7:8 For every one that
asketh  receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that
knocketh it shall be opened. 7:9 Or what man is there of you, whom
if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone? 7:10 Or if he ask a fish,
will he give him a serpent? 7:11 If ye then, being evil, know how to give
good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father
which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him?200 7:12
Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to
you, do ye even so to them201: for this is the law and the prophets.
7:13 Enter ye in at the strait gate: for wide is the gate, and broad is
the way, that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in
thereat: 7:14 Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which
leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it.202 7:15 Beware of false
prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they
are ravening wolves.203 7:16 Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do
men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? 7:17 Even so every
good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth
forth evil fruit. 7:18 A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither
can  a corrupt  tree  bring forth  good  fruit.  7:19  Every  tree  that
bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire.
7:20 Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them.204 7:21 Not every
one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of
heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven.205
7:22 Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not

JESUS † The Complete Biography
prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils? and
in  thy  name  done  many  wonderful  works?  7:23  And  then  will  I
profess unto them, I never knew you: depart from me, ye that work
iniquity.206 7:24 Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine,
and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house
upon a rock: 7:25 And the rain descended, and the floods came, and
the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was
founded  upon  a  rock.  7:26  And  every  one  that  heareth  these
sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish
man,  which  built  his  house  upon  the  sand:  7:27  And  the  rain
descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat
upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall of it.207 7:28 And it
came to pass, when Jesus had ended these sayings,  the people
were astonished at his doctrine: 7:29 For he taught them as one
having authority, and not as the scribes.208 8:1 When he was come
down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him.
The  Gospel of Luke indicates that Jesus went up into the mountain
alone, and that he descended in the morning, and then addressed his
remarks to the disciples and not to the multitudes.   We will discover that
while the location of and the actual contents of this discourse vary in the
two  Gospel  accounts,  there  is  evidence  from  what  followed  the  two
discourses that they were one and the same.  As in the account found in the
Gospel of Matthew, these were teachings for the few who are chosen
rather than for the many who are called:
6:12 And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a
mountain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God. 6:13 And
when it was day, he called unto him his disciples: and of them he
chose twelve, whom also he named apostles; 6:14 Simon, (whom he
also named Peter,) and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip
and Bartholomew, 6:15 Matthew and Thomas, James the son of
Alphaeus, and Simon called Zelotes, 6:16 And Judas the brother of
James, and Judas Iscariot, which also was the traitor. 6:17 And he

JESUS † The Complete Biography
came down with them, and stood in the plain, and the company of
his disciples, and a great multitude of people out of all Judaea and
Jerusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, which came
to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases; 6:18 And they that
were vexed with unclean spirits: and they were healed. 6:19 And the
whole multitude sought to touch him: for there went virtue out of
him, and healed them all.6:20 And he lifted up his eyes on his
disciples, and said, Blessed be ye poor: for yours is the kingdom of
God. 6:21 Blessed are ye that hunger now: for ye shall be filled.
Blessed are ye that weep now: for ye shall laugh. 6:22 Blessed are
ye, when men shall hate you, and when they shall separate you from
their company, and shall reproach you, and cast out your name as
evil, for the Son of man's sake. 6:23 Rejoice ye in that day, and leap
for joy: for, behold, your reward is great in heaven: for in the like
manner did their fathers unto the prophets.209 6:24 But woe unto
you that are rich! for ye have received your consolation. 6:25 Woe
unto you that are full! for ye shall hunger. Woe unto you that laugh
now! for ye shall mourn and weep. 6:26 Woe unto you, when all men
shall  speak  well  of  you!  for  so  did  their  fathers  to  the  false
prophets. 6:27 But I say unto you which hear, Love your enemies,
do good to them which hate you, 6:28 Bless them that curse you,
and pray for them which despitefully use you. 6:29 And unto him
that smiteth thee on the one cheek offer also the other; and him
that taketh away thy cloak forbid not to take thy coat also. 6:30
Give to every man that asketh of thee; and of him that taketh away
thy goods ask them not again.

210 6:31 And as ye would that men
should do to you, do ye also to them likewise.211 6:32 For if ye love
them which love you, what thank have ye? for sinners also love
those that love them. 6:33 And if ye do good to them which do good
to you, what thank have ye? for sinners also do even the same.212
6:34 And if ye lend to them of whom ye hope to receive, what thank

JESUS † The Complete Biography
have ye? for sinners also lend to sinners, to receive as much again.
6:35 But love ye your enemies, and do good, and lend, hoping for
nothing again; and your reward shall be great, and ye shall be the
children of the Highest: for he is kind unto the unthankful and to
the  evil.  6:36  Be  ye  therefore  merciful,  as  your  Father  also  is
merciful.213 6:37 Judge not, and ye shall not be judged: condemn not,
and ye shall not be condemned: forgive, and ye shall be forgiven:
6:38 Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed
down, and shaken together, and running over, shall men give into
your bosom. For with the same measure that ye mete withal it shall
be measured to you again. 6:39 And he spake a parable unto them,
Can the blind lead the blind? shall they not both fall into the ditch?
6:40 The disciple is not above his master: but every one that is
perfect shall be as his master. 6:41 And why beholdest thou the
mote that is in thy brother's eye, but perceivest not the beam that is
in thine own eye? 6:42 Either how canst thou say to thy brother,
Brother, let me pull out the mote that is in thine eye, when thou
thyself beholdest not the beam that is in thine own eye? Thou
hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of thine own eye, and then
shalt thou see clearly to pull out the mote that is in thy brother's
eye. 6:43 For a good tree bringeth not forth corrupt fruit; neither
doth a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. 6:44 For every tree is
known by his own fruit. For of thorns men do not gather figs, nor of
a bramble bush gather they grapes. 6:45 A good man out of the
good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good; and an
evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth that
which is evil: for of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaketh.
6:46 And why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I
say? 6:47 Whosoever cometh to me, and heareth my sayings, and
doeth them, I will shew you to whom he is like: 6:48 He is like a man
which built an house, and digged deep, and laid the foundation on a

JESUS † The Complete Biography
rock: and when the flood arose, the stream beat vehemently upon
that house, and could not shake it: for it was founded upon a rock.
6:49 But he that heareth, and doeth not, is like a man that without a
foundation built an house upon the earth; against which the stream
did beat vehemently, and immediately it fell; and the ruin of that
house was great. 7:1 Now when he had ended all his sayings in the
audience of the people, he entered into Capernaum.
According to the  Gospel of Matthew, when Jesus descended from the
mountain where he had given the famous discourse to his disciples, he
healed a leper214:
8:1 When he was come down from the mountain, great multitudes
followed him. 8:2 And, behold, there came a leper and worshipped
him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. 8:3 And
Jesus put forth his hand, and touched him, saying,  I will; be thou
clean. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. 8:4 And Jesus
saith unto him, See thou tell no man; but go thy way, shew thyself to
the  priest,  and  offer  the  gift  that  Moses  commanded,  for  a
testimony unto them.
The  Gospel of Luke is somewhat longer and more detailed, omitting
where and when this occurred:
5:12 And it came to pass, when he was in a certain city, behold a man
full of leprosy: who seeing Jesus fell on his face, and besought him,
saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. 5:13 And he put
forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will: be thou clean. And
immediately the leprosy departed from him. 5:14 And he charged him
to tell no man: but go, and shew thyself to the priest, and offer for
thy cleansing, according as Moses commanded, for a testimony
unto them. 5:15 But so much the more went there a fame abroad of
him: and great multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed

JESUS † The Complete Biography
by him of their infirmities. 5:16 And he withdrew himself into the
wilderness, and prayed.
The Gospel of Mark is the longest of the three synoptic, but it also does
not identify the context for this event in the life and ministry of Jesus:
1:39 And he preached in their synagogues throughout all Galilee,
and cast out devils. 1:40 And there came a leper to him, beseeching
him, and kneeling down to him, and saying unto him, If thou wilt, thou
canst make me clean. 1:41 And Jesus, moved with compassion, put
forth his hand, and touched him, and saith unto him, I will; be thou
clean. 1:42 And as soon as he had spoken, immediately the leprosy
departed  from  him,  and  he  was  cleansed.  1:43  And  he  straitly
charged him, and forthwith sent him away; 1:44 And saith unto him,
See thou say nothing to any man: but go thy way, shew thyself to
the priest, and offer for thy cleansing those things which Moses
commanded, for a testimony unto them. 1:45 But he went out, and
began to publish it much, and to blaze abroad the matter, insomuch
that Jesus could no more openly enter into the city, but was without
in desert places: and they came to him from every quarter.
The Gospel of Matthew tells us that the disciples of Jesus were called
upon to heal lepers, even as he had done so:
10:5 These twelve Jesus sent forth, and commanded them, saying,
Go  not  into  the  way of  the  Gentiles, and into  any  city  of  the
Samaritans enter ye not: 10:6 But go rather to the lost sheep of the
house of Israel. 10:7 And as ye go, preach, saying, The kingdom of
heaven is at hand. 10:8 Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the
dead, cast out devils: freely ye have received, freely give.
In the Gospel of Matthew, when the followers of John the Baptist came
to check his credentials, Jesus said to them:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
11:2 Now when John had heard in the prison the works of Christ, he
sent two of his disciples, 11:3 And said unto him,  Art thou he that
should come, or do we look for another? 11:4 Jesus answered and
said unto them, Go and shew John again those things which ye do
hear and see: 11:5 The blind receive their sight, and the lame walk,
the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up,
and the poor have the gospel preached to them.
In the Gospel of Luke, the same story is found:
7:22 Then Jesus answering said unto them,  Go your way, and tell
John what things ye have seen and heard; how that the blind see,
the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are
raised, to the poor the gospel is preached.
The Gospel of Matthew then has Jesus entering Capernaum, and raising
the servant215 of the Roman centurion216 from the dead:
8:5 And when Jesus was entered into Capernaum, there came unto
him a centurion, beseeching him, 8:6 And saying, Lord, my servant
lieth at home sick of the palsy, grievously tormented. 8:7 And Jesus
saith unto him, I will come and heal him. 8:8 The centurion answered
and said, Lord, I am not worthy that thou shouldest come under my
roof: but speak the word only, and my servant shall be healed. 8:9
For I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me: and I say
to this man, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he
cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.  8:10 When
Jesus heard it, he marvelled, and said to them that followed, Verily I
say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel. 8:11
And I say unto you, That many shall come from the east and west,
and shall sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the
kingdom of heaven. 8:12 But the children of the kingdom shall be
cast out into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing

JESUS † The Complete Biography
of teeth. 8:13 And Jesus said unto the centurion, Go thy way; and as
thou hast believed, so be it done unto thee. And his servant was
healed in the selfsame hour.
A confirmation that the discourse reported in Matthew and in Luke were
one and the same, is that the Gospel of Luke likewise reports that Jesus
entered  Capernaum  and  performed  this  miraculous  resurrection
immediately afterwards:
7:1 Now when he had ended all his sayings in the audience of the
people, he entered into Capernaum. 7:2 And a certain centurion's
servant, who was dear unto him, was sick, and ready to die. 7:3 And
when he heard of Jesus, he sent unto him the elders of the Jews,
beseeching him that he would come and heal his servant. 7:4 And
when they came to Jesus, they besought him instantly, saying, That
he was worthy for whom he should do this: 7:5 For he loveth our
nation, and he hath built us a synagogue. 7:6 Then Jesus went with
them. And when he was now not far from the house, the centurion
sent friends to him, saying unto him, Lord, trouble not thyself: for I
am  not  worthy  that  thou  shouldest  enter  under  my  roof:  7:7
Wherefore neither thought I myself worthy to come unto thee: but
say in a word, and my servant shall be healed. 7:8 For I also am a man
set under authority, having under me soldiers, and I say unto one,
Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my
servant, Do this, and he doeth it. 7:9 When Jesus heard these
things, he marvelled at him, and turned him about, and said unto the
people that followed him, I say unto you, I have not found so great
faith, no, not in Israel. 7:10 And they that were sent, returning to the
house, found the servant whole that had been sick.
The  Gospel of Mark does not tell of this miraculous deliverance from
death, but it does indicate that immediately following his healing of the
leper, Jesus entered Capernaum:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
2:1 And again he entered into Capernaum after some days; and it
was noised that he was in the house.
The Gospel of Matthew indicates that Jesus then visited the home of his
disciple Peter, and healed Peter’s mother-in-law::
8:14 And when Jesus was come into Peter's house, he saw his wife's
mother laid, and sick of a fever. 8:15 And he touched her hand, and
the fever left her: and she arose, and ministered unto them.
The Gospel of Mark also speaks of the healing of Peter’s mother-in-law:
1:29 And forthwith, when they were come out of the synagogue,
they entered into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and
John. 1:30 But Simon's wife's mother lay sick of a fever, and anon
they tell him of her. 1:31 And he came and took her by the hand, and
lifted her up; and immediately the fever left her, and she ministered
unto them.
The Gospel of Luke also speaks of this healing:
4:38 And he arose out of the synagogue, and entered into Simon's
house. And Simon's wife's mother was taken with a great fever; and
they  besought  him  for  her.  4:39  And  he  stood  over  her,  and
rebuked the fever; and it left her: and immediately she arose and
ministered unto them.
In the Gospel of Matthew account, after healing Peter’s mother in law
Jesus ministered to others:
8:16 When the even was come, they brought unto him many that were
possessed with devils: and he cast out the spirits with his word, and
healed all that were sick: 8:17 That it might be fulfilled which was
spoken by Esaias the prophet, saying, Himself took our infirmities,
and bare our sicknesses.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Likewise, in the Gospel of Mark:
1:32 And at even, when the sun did set, they brought unto him all
that were diseased, and them that were possessed with devils. 1:33
And all the city was gathered together at the door. 1:34 And he
healed many that were sick of divers diseases, and cast out many
devils; and suffered not the devils to speak, because they knew him.
1:35 And in the morning, rising up a great while before day, he went
out, and departed into a solitary place, and there prayed. 1:36 And
Simon and they that were with him followed after him. 1:37 And when
they had found him, they said unto him, All men seek for thee. 1:38
And he said unto them, Let us go into the next towns, that I may
preach there also: for therefore came I forth. 1:39 And he preached
in their synagogues throughout all Galilee, and cast out devils.
There is another passage in the  Gospel of Mark which immediately
follows this account and his account of the healing of the leper.  This seems
seems to match up with the Gospel of Matthew in its account of what
happened after the healing of Peter’s mother:
2:1 And again he entered into Capernaum after some days; and it
was noised that he was in the house. 2:2 And straightway many were
gathered together, insomuch that there was no room to receive
them, no, not so much as about the door: and he preached the word
unto them. 2:3 And they come unto him, bringing one sick of the
palsy, which was borne of four. 2:4 And when they could not come
nigh unto him for the press, they uncovered the roof where he was:
and when they had broken it up, they let down the bed wherein the
sick of the palsy lay. 2:5 When Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the
sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. 2:6 But there was
certain of the scribes sitting there, and reasoning in their hearts, 2:7
Why doth this man thus speak blasphemies? who can forgive sins
but God only? 2:8 And immediately when Jesus perceived in his

JESUS † The Complete Biography
spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said unto them,
Why reason ye these things in your hearts? 2:9 Whether is it easier
to say to the sick of the palsy, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say,
Arise, and take up thy bed, and walk? 2:10 But that ye may know
that the Son of man hath power on earth to forgive sins, (he saith to
the sick of the palsy,) 2:11 I say unto thee, Arise, and take up thy
bed, and go thy way into thine house. 2:12 And immediately he
arose, took up the bed, and went forth before them all; insomuch
that they were all amazed, and glorified God, saying, We never saw it
on this fashion.
The Gospel of Luke likewise speaks of these healings:
4:40 Now when the sun was setting, all they that had any sick with
divers diseases brought them unto him; and he laid his hands on
every one of them, and healed them. 4:41 And devils also came out
of many, crying out, and saying, Thou art Christ the Son of God.
And he rebuking them suffered them not to speak: for they knew
that he was Christ. 4:42 And when it was day, he departed and went
into a desert place: and the people sought him, and came unto him,
and stayed him, that he should not depart from them. 4:43 And he
said unto them, I must preach the kingdom of God to other cities
also:  for  therefore  am  I  sent.  4:44  And  he  preached  in  the
synagogues of Galilee.
The Gospel of Matthew tells a brief story just before Jesus takes a trip:
8:19 And a certain scribe came, and said unto him,  Master, I will
follow thee whithersoever thou goest. 8:20 And Jesus saith unto
him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests; but
the Son of man hath not where to lay his head. 8:21 And another of
his disciples said unto him, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my

JESUS † The Complete Biography
father. 8:22 But Jesus said unto him, Follow me; and let the dead
bury their dead.
The Gospel of Mark elaborates upon the events that transpired after his
healing:
2:14 And as he passed by, he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at
the receipt of custom, and said unto him, Follow me. And he arose
and followed him. 2:15 And it came to pass, that, as Jesus sat at
meat in his house, many publicans and sinners sat also together with
Jesus and his disciples: for there were many, and they followed
him.2:16  And  when  the  scribes  and  Pharisees  saw  him  eat  with
publicans and sinners, they said unto his disciples, How is it that he
eateth and drinketh with publicans and sinners? 2:17 When Jesus
heard it, he saith unto them, They that are whole have no need of
the  physician,  but  they  that  are  sick:  I  came  not  to  call  the
righteous, but sinners to repentance. 2:18 And the disciples of John
and of the Pharisees used to fast: and they come and say unto him,
Why do the disciples of John and of the Pharisees fast, but thy
disciples fast not? 2:19 And Jesus said unto them, Can the children
of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them? as long
as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast. 2:20 But
the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from
them, and then shall they fast in those days. 2:21 No man also
seweth a piece of new cloth on an old garment: else the new piece
that filled it up taketh away from the old, and the rent is made
worse. 2:22 And no man putteth new wine into old bottles: else the
new wine doth burst the bottles, and the wine is spilled, and the
bottles will be marred: but new wine must be put into new bottles.
2:23 And it came to pass, that he went through the corn fields on the
sabbath day; and his disciples began, as they went, to pluck the
ears of corn. 2:24 And the Pharisees said unto him, Behold, why do

JESUS † The Complete Biography
they on the sabbath day that which is not lawful? 2:25 And he said
unto them, Have ye never read what David did, when he had need,
and was an hungred, he, and they that were with him? 2:26 How he
went into the house of God in the days of Abiathar the high priest,
and did eat the shewbread, which is not lawful to eat but for the
priests, and gave also to them which were with him? 2:27 And he said
unto them, The sabbath was made for man, and not man for the
sabbath:  2:28  Therefore  the  Son  of  man  is  Lord  also  of  the
sabbath. 3:1 And he entered again into the synagogue; and there
was a man there which had a withered hand. 3:2 And they watched
him, whether he would heal him on the sabbath day; that they might
accuse him. 3:3 And he saith unto the man which had the withered
hand,  Stand forth.  3:4 And he saith unto them, Is it lawful to do
good on the sabbath days, or to do evil? to save life, or to kill? But
they held their peace. 3:5 And when he had looked round about on
them with anger, being grieved for the hardness of their hearts, he
saith unto the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched it
out: and his hand was restored whole as the other. 3:6 And the
Pharisees  went  forth,  and  straightway  took  counsel  with  the
Herodians against him, how they might destroy him.
The Gospel of Luke also tells this story, with additional anecdotes not
found in any of the other gospels:
9:57 And it came to pass, that, as they went in the way, a certain man
said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest. 9:58
And Jesus said unto him,  Foxes have holes, and birds of the air
have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head. 9:59
And he said unto another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, suffer me
first to go and bury my father. 9:60 Jesus said unto him,  Let the
dead bury their dead: but go thou and preach the kingdom of God.
9:61 And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee; but let me first go

JESUS † The Complete Biography
bid them farewell, which are at home at my house. 9:62 And Jesus
said unto him,  No man, having put his hand to the plough, and
looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God.
A quick trip to the Gadarenes
The Gospel of Matthew reports the arrival of Jesus at the lake side:
8:18  Now  when  Jesus  saw  great  multitudes  about  him,  he  gave
commandment to depart unto the other side.
The Gospel of Mark likewise:
2:13 And he went forth again by the sea side; and all the multitude
resorted unto him, and he taught them.
The Gospel of Luke:
5:1 And it came to pass, that, as the people pressed upon him to
hear the word of God, he stood by the lake of Gennesaret…
The synoptic gospels refer to Jesus arriving at the shore of the Sea of
Galilee,  also  called  the  Lake  of  Gennesaret,  and  they  follow  with  his
journey to the other side…we will start with the Gospel of Matthew:
8:23 And when he was entered into a ship, his disciples followed him.
8:24 And, behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea, insomuch
that the ship was covered with the waves: but he was asleep. 8:25
And his disciples came to him, and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us:
we perish. 8:26 And he saith unto them, Why are ye fearful, O ye of
little faith? Then he arose, and rebuked the winds and the sea; and
there was a great calm. 8:27 But the men marvelled, saying,  What
manner of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him!
The Gospel of Mark:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
4:35 And the same day, when the even was come, he saith unto
them, Let us pass over unto the other side.4:36 And when they had
sent away the multitude, they took him even as he was in the ship.
And there were also with him other little ships. 4:37 And there arose
a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the ship, so that it
was now full. 4:38 And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep
on a pillow: and they awake him, and say unto him, Master, carest
thou not that we perish? 4:39 And he arose, and rebuked the wind,
and said unto the sea,  Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and
there was a great calm. 4:40 And he said unto them, Why are ye so
fearful? how is it that ye have no faith?  4:41 And they feared
exceedingly, and said one to another, What manner of man is this,
that even the wind and the sea obey him?
The Gospel of Luke:
8:22 Now it came to pass on a certain day, that he went into a ship
with his disciples: and he said unto them, Let us go over unto the
other side of the lake. And they launched forth. 8:23 But as they
sailed he fell asleep: and there came down a storm of wind on the
lake; and they were filled with water, and were in jeopardy. 8:24 And
they came to him, and awoke him, saying, Master, master, we perish.
Then he arose, and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water:
and they ceased, and there was a calm. 8:25 And he said unto them,
Where is your faith? And they being afraid wondered, saying one to
another, What manner of man is this! for he commandeth even the
winds and water, and they obey him.
When Jesus arrived on the other side of the lake, to the country of the
Gadarenes217, he was met by two possessed men, as depicted in the Gospel
of Matthew:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
8:28 And when he was come to the other side into the country of the
Gergesenes, there met him two possessed with devils, coming out of
the tombs, exceeding fierce, so that no man might pass by that way.
8:29 And, behold, they cried out, saying, What have we to do with
thee, Jesus, thou Son of God? art thou come hither to torment us
before the time? 8:30 And there was a good way off from them an
herd of many swine feeding. 8:31 So the devils besought him, saying,
If thou cast us out, suffer us to go away into the herd of swine. 8:32
And he said unto them,  Go. And when they were come out, they
went into the herd of swine: and, behold, the whole herd of swine
ran violently down a steep place into the sea, and perished in the
waters. 8:33 And they that kept them fled, and went their ways into
the  city,  and  told  every  thing,  and  what  was  befallen  to  the
possessed of the devils. 8:34 And, behold, the whole city came out
to meet Jesus: and when they saw him, they besought him that he
would depart out of their coasts. 9:1 And he entered into a ship, and
passed over, and came into his own city.
The Gospel of Mark tells this story:
5:1 And they came over unto the other side of the sea, into the
country of the Gadarenes. 5:2 And when he was come out of the
ship, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an
unclean spirit, 5:3 Who had his dwelling among the tombs; and no
man could bind him, no, not with chains: 5:4 Because that he had
been often bound with fetters and chains, and the chains had been
plucked asunder by him, and the fetters broken in pieces: neither
could any man tame him. 5:5 And always, night and day, he was in
the mountains, and in the tombs, crying, and cutting himself with
stones. 5:6 But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped
him, 5:7 And cried with a loud voice, and said, What have I to do with
thee, Jesus, thou Son of the most high God? I adjure thee by God,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
that thou torment me not. 5:8 For he said unto him, Come out of the
man, thou unclean spirit. 5:9 And he asked him, What is thy name?
And he answered, saying, My name is Legion: for we are many. 5:10
And he besought him much that he would not send them away out
of the country. 5:11 Now there was there nigh unto the mountains a
great herd of swine feeding. 5:12 And all the devils besought him,
saying, Send us into the swine, that we may enter into them. 5:13 And
forthwith Jesus gave them leave. And the unclean spirits went out,
and entered into the swine: and the herd ran violently down a steep
place into the sea, (they were about two thousand;) and were
choked in the sea. 5:14 And they that fed the swine fled, and told it
in the city, and in the country. And they went out to see what it was
that was done. 5:15 And they come to Jesus, and see him that was
possessed with the devil, and had the legion, sitting, and clothed,
and in his right mind: and they were afraid. 5:16 And they that saw it
told them how it befell to him that was possessed with the devil, and
also concerning the swine. 5:17 And they began to pray him to
depart out of their coasts. 5:18 And when he was come into the ship,
he that had been possessed with the devil prayed him that he might
be with him. 5:19 Howbeit Jesus suffered him not, but saith unto him,
Go home to thy friends, and tell them how great things the Lord
hath done for thee, and hath had compassion on thee. 5:20 And he
departed, and began to publish in Decapolis how great things Jesus
had done for him: and all men did marvel.
The Gospel of Luke likewise:
8:26 And they arrived at the country of the Gadarenes, which is over
against Galilee. 8:27 And when he went forth to land, there met him
out of the city a certain man, which had devils long time, and ware no
clothes, neither abode in any house, but in the tombs. 8:28 When he
saw Jesus, he cried out, and fell down before him, and with a loud

JESUS † The Complete Biography
voice said,  What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of God
most  high?  I  beseech  thee,  torment  me  not.  8:29  (For  he  had
commanded  the  unclean  spirit  to  come  out  of  the  man.  For
oftentimes it had caught him: and he was kept bound with chains
and in fetters; and he brake the bands, and was driven of the devil
into the wilderness.) 8:30 And Jesus asked him, saying, What is thy
name? And he said, Legion: because many devils were entered into
him. 8:31 And they besought him that he would not command them to
go out into the deep. 8:32 And there was there an herd of many
swine feeding on the mountain: and they besought him that he
would suffer them to enter into them. And he suffered them. 8:33
Then went the devils out of the man, and entered into the swine: and
the herd ran violently down a steep place into the lake, and were
choked. 8:34 When they that fed them saw what was done, they fled,
and went and told it in the city and in the country. 8:35 Then they
went out to see what was done; and came to Jesus, and found the
man, out of whom the devils were departed, sitting at the feet of
Jesus, clothed, and in his right mind: and they were afraid. 8:36
They  also  which  saw  it  told  them  by  what  means  he  that  was
possessed of the devils was healed. 8:37 Then the whole multitude
of the country of the Gadarenes round about besought him to
depart from them; for they were taken with great fear: and he went
up into the ship, and returned back again.
Returns to Capernaum
The  Gospel of Matthew then says that Jesus returned to Capernaum,
whch he calls “his own city”:
9:1 And he entered into a ship, and passed over, and came into his
own city. 9:2 And, behold, they brought to him a man sick of the
palsy, lying on a bed: and Jesus seeing their faith said unto the sick
of the palsy; Son, be of good cheer; thy sins be forgiven thee. 9:3

JESUS † The Complete Biography
And, behold, certain of the scribes said within themselves, This man
blasphemeth.  9:4  And  Jesus  knowing  their  thoughts  said,
Wherefore think ye evil in your hearts? 9:5 For whether is easier, to
say, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say, Arise, and walk? 9:6 But
that ye may know that the Son of man hath power on earth to
forgive sins, (then saith he to the sick of the palsy,) Arise, take up
thy bed, and go unto thine house. 9:7 And he arose, and departed
to his house. 9:8 But when the multitudes saw it, they marvelled, and
glorified God, which had given such power unto men. 9:9 And as
Jesus passed forth from thence, he saw a man, named Matthew,
sitting at the receipt of custom: and he saith unto him, Follow me.
And he arose, and followed him. 9:10 And it came to pass, as Jesus
sat at meat in the house, behold, many publicans and sinners came
and sat down with him and his disciples. 9:11 And when the Pharisees
saw it, they said unto his disciples,  Why eateth your Master with
publicans and sinners? 9:12 But when Jesus heard that, he said unto
them, They that be whole need not a physician, but they that are
sick. 9:13 But go ye and learn what that meaneth, I will have mercy,
and not sacrifice: for I am not come to call the righteous, but sinners
to repentance. 9:14 Then came to him the disciples of John, saying,
Why do we and the Pharisees fast oft, but thy disciples fast not?
9:15  And  Jesus  said  unto  them,  Can  the  children  of  the
bridechamber mourn, as long as the bridegroom is with them? but
the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken from them,
and then shall they fast. 9:16 No man putteth a piece of new cloth
unto an old garment, for that which is put in to fill it up taketh from
the garment, and the rent is made worse. 9:17 Neither do men put
new wine into old bottles: else the bottles break, and the wine
runneth out, and the bottles perish: but they put new wine into new
bottles, and both are preserved.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The Gospel of Mark is more detailed but follows much the same lines:
2:1 And again he entered into Capernaum after some days; and it
was noised that he was in the house. 2:2 And straightway many were
gathered together, insomuch that there was no room to receive
them, no, not so much as about the door: and he preached the word
unto them. 2:3 And they come unto him, bringing one sick of the
palsy, which was borne of four. 2:4 And when they could not come
nigh unto him for the press, they uncovered the roof where he was:
and when they had broken it up, they let down the bed wherein the
sick of the palsy lay. 2:5 When Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the
sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. 2:6 But there was
certain of the scribes sitting there, and reasoning in their hearts, 2:7
Why doth this man thus speak blasphemies? who can forgive sins
but God only? 2:8 And immediately when Jesus perceived in his
spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said unto them,
Why reason ye these things in your hearts? 2:9 Whether is it easier
to say to the sick of the palsy, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say,
Arise, and take up thy bed, and walk? 2:10 But that ye may know
that the Son of man hath power on earth to forgive sins, (he saith to
the sick of the palsy,) 2:11 I say unto thee, Arise, and take up thy
bed, and go thy way into thine house.  2:12 And immediately he
arose, took up the bed, and went forth before them all; insomuch
that they were all amazed, and glorified God, saying, We never saw it
on this fashion. 2:13 And he went forth again by the sea side; and all
the multitude resorted unto him, and he taught them. 2:14 And as he
passed by, he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the receipt of
custom, and said unto him, Follow me. And he arose and followed
him. 2:15 And it came to pass, that, as Jesus sat at meat in his house,
many publicans and sinners sat also together with Jesus and his
disciples: for there were many, and they followed him. 2:16 And when
the scribes and Pharisees saw him eat with publicans and sinners,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
they said unto his disciples, How is it that he eateth and drinketh
with publicans and sinners? 2:17 When Jesus heard it, he saith unto
them, They that are whole have no need of the physician, but they
that  are  sick:  I  came  not  to  call  the  righteous,  but  sinners  to
repentance.  2:18 And the disciples of John and of the Pharisees
used to fast: and they come and say unto him, Why do the disciples
of John and of the Pharisees fast, but thy disciples fast not? 2:19
And Jesus said unto them,  Can the children of the bridechamber
fast, while the bridegroom is with them? as long as they have the
bridegroom with them, they cannot fast. 2:20 But the days will
come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and
then shall they fast in those days. 2:21 No man also seweth a piece
of new cloth on an old garment: else the new piece that filled it up
taketh away from the old, and the rent is made worse. 2:22 And no
man putteth new wine into old bottles: else the new wine doth burst
the bottles, and the wine is spilled, and the bottles will be marred:
but new wine must be put into new bottles.
The Gospel of Luke is virually identical to that of Mark:
5:17 And it came to pass on a certain day, as he was teaching, that
there were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by, which were
come out of every town of Galilee, and Judaea, and Jerusalem: and
the power of the Lord was present to heal them. 5:18 And, behold,
men brought in a bed a man which was taken with a palsy: and they
sought means to bring him in, and to lay him before him. 5:19 And
when they  could not find by what  way they might bring him in
because of the multitude, they went upon the housetop, and let him
down through the tiling with his couch into the midst before Jesus.
5:20 And when he saw their faith, he said unto him, Man, thy sins are
forgiven thee. 5:21 And the scribes and the Pharisees began to
reason, saying, Who is this which speaketh blasphemies? Who can

JESUS † The Complete Biography
forgive sins, but God alone? 5:22 But when Jesus perceived their
thoughts, he answering said unto them,  What reason ye in your
hearts? 5:23 Whether is easier, to say, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or
to say, Rise up and walk? 5:24 But that ye may know that the Son of
man hath power upon earth to forgive sins, (he said unto the sick of
the palsy,) I say unto thee, Arise, and take up thy couch, and go
into thine house. 5:25 And immediately he rose up before them, and
took up that whereon he lay, and departed to his own house,
glorifying God. 5:26 And they were all amazed, and they glorified
God, and were filled with fear, saying, We have seen strange things
to  day. 5:27  And  after  these  things  he  went  forth,  and  saw  a
publican, named Levi, sitting at the receipt of custom: and he said
unto him, Follow me. 5:28 And he left all, rose up, and followed him.
5:29 And Levi made him a great feast in his own house: and there
was a great company of publicans and of others that sat down with
them. 5:30 But their scribes and Pharisees murmured against his
disciples,  saying,  Why  do  ye  eat  and  drink  with  publicans  and
sinners? 5:31 And Jesus answering said unto them,  They that are
whole need not a physician; but they that are sick. 5:32 I came not to
call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. 5:33 And they said
unto  him,  Why  do  the  disciples  of  John  fast  often,  and  make
prayers, and likewise the disciples of the Pharisees; but thine eat
and drink? 5:34 And he said unto them, Can ye make the children of
the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them? 5:35 But
the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from
them, and then shall they fast in those days. 5:36 And he spake also
a parable unto them; No man putteth a piece of a new garment upon
an old; if otherwise, then both the new maketh a rent, and the piece
that was taken out of the new agreeth not with the old. 5:37 And no
man putteth new wine into old bottles; else the new wine will burst
the bottles, and be spilled, and the bottles shall perish. 5:38 But new

JESUS † The Complete Biography
wine must be put into new bottles; and both are preserved. 5:39 No
man also having drunk old wine straightway desireth new: for he
saith, The old is better.
The story is also told in the  Gospel of John, with a very important
reference to a principled breaking of the Sabbath, which was to have
consequences for Jesus:
5:2 Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep market a pool, which is
called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda, having five porches. 5:3 In
these lay a great multitude of impotent folk, of blind, halt, withered,
waiting for the moving of the water. 5:4 For an angel went down at a
certain season into the pool, and troubled the water: whosoever
then first after the troubling of the water stepped in was made
whole of whatsoever disease he had.5:5 And a certain man was
there, which had an infirmity thirty and eight years. 5:6 When Jesus
saw him lie, and knew that he had been now a long time in that case,
he saith unto him, Wilt thou be made whole? 5:7 The impotent man
answered him, Sir, I have no man, when the water is troubled, to put
me into the pool: but while I am coming, another steppeth down
before me. 5:8 Jesus saith unto him, Rise, take up thy bed, and walk.
5:9 And immediately the man was made whole, and took up his bed,
and walked: and on the same day was the sabbath. 5:10 The Jews
therefore said unto him that was cured, It is the sabbath day: it is
not lawful for thee to carry thy bed. 5:11 He answered them, He that
made me whole, the same said unto me, Take up thy bed, and walk.
5:12 Then asked they him,  What man is that which said unto thee,
Take up thy bed, and walk? 5:13 And he that was healed wist not
who it was: for Jesus had conveyed himself away, a multitude being
in that place. 5:14 Afterward Jesus findeth him in the temple, and
said unto him,  Behold, thou art made whole: sin no more, lest a
worse thing come unto thee. 5:15 The man departed, and told the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Jews  that  it  was  Jesus,  which  had  made  him  whole.  5:16  And
therefore did the Jews persecute Jesus, and sought to slay him,
because he had done these things on the sabbath day. 5:17 But
Jesus answered them, My Father worketh hitherto, and I work. 5:18
Therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he not only
had broken the sabbath, but said also that God was his Father,
making himself equal with God.
The Gospel of Matthew tells the story of a “ruler” named Jairus and a
woman with a hemorrhage, both of whom having demonstrated their faith.
In the Gospels of Mark and Luke, we learn that Jairus was a “ruler of the
synagogue” [arxisynágōgos  in the original Greek218], and in its Hebrew
form Ya’ir means “he will illuminate”219.  That is all we know about this
man, apart from the report that he had complete confidence that Jesus
could raise his daughter from death itself:
9:18 While he spake these things unto them, behold, there came a
certain ruler, and worshipped him, saying, My daughter is even now
dead: but come and lay thy hand upon her, and she shall live. 9:19
And Jesus arose, and followed him, and so did his disciples. 9:20
And, behold, a woman, which was diseased with an issue of blood
twelve years, came behind him, and touched the hem of his garment:
9:21 For she said within herself, If I may but touch his garment, I shall
be whole. 9:22 But Jesus turned him about, and when he saw her, he
said,  Daughter, be of good comfort; thy faith hath made thee
whole. And the woman was made whole from that hour.  9:23 And
when Jesus came into the ruler's house, and saw the minstrels and
the people making a noise, 9:24 He said unto them, Give place: for
the maid is not dead, but sleepeth. And they laughed him to scorn.
9:25 But when the people were put forth, he went in, and took her
by the hand, and the maid arose. 9:26 And the fame hereof went
abroad into all that land.
The Gospel of Mark contains a parallel account:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
5:21 And when Jesus was passed over again by ship unto the other
side, much people gathered unto him: and he was nigh unto the sea.
5:22 And, behold, there cometh one of the rulers of the synagogue,
Jairus by name; and when he saw him, he fell at his feet, 5:23 And
besought him greatly, saying, My little daughter lieth at the point of
death: I pray thee, come and lay thy hands on her, that she may be
healed; and she shall live. 5:24 And Jesus went with him; and much
people followed him, and thronged him. 5:25 And a certain woman,
which had an issue of blood twelve years, 5:26 And had suffered
many things of many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and
was nothing bettered, but rather grew worse, 5:27 When she had
heard of Jesus, came in the press behind, and touched his garment.
5:28 For she said, If I may touch but his clothes, I shall be whole. 5:29
And straightway the fountain of her blood was dried up; and she
felt in her body that she was healed of that plague. 5:30 And Jesus,
immediately knowing in himself that virtue had gone out of him,
turned him about in the press, and said, Who touched my clothes?
5:31  And  his  disciples  said  unto  him,  Thou  seest  the  multitude
thronging thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me? 5:32 And he
looked round about to see her that had done this thing. 5:33 But
the woman fearing and trembling, knowing what was done in her,
came and fell down before him, and told him all the truth. 5:34 And
he said unto her, Daughter, thy faith hath made thee whole; go in
peace, and be whole of thy plague. 5:35 While he yet spake, there
came from the ruler of the synagogue's house certain which said,
Thy daughter is dead: why troublest thou the Master any further?
5:36 As soon as Jesus heard the word that was spoken, he saith
unto the ruler of the synagogue,  Be not afraid, only believe. 5:37
And he suffered no man to follow him, save Peter, and James, and
John the brother of James. 5:38 And he cometh to the house of the
ruler of the synagogue, and seeth the tumult, and them that wept

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and wailed greatly. 5:39 And when he was come in, he saith unto
them, Why make ye this ado, and weep? the damsel is not dead, but
sleepeth. 5:40 And they laughed him to scorn. But when he had put
them all out, he taketh the father and the mother of the damsel, and
them that were with him, and entereth in where the damsel was lying.
5:41 And he took the damsel by the hand, and said unto her, Talitha
cumi; which is, being interpreted, Damsel, I say unto thee, arise. 5:42
And straightway the damsel arose, and walked; for she was of the
age  of  twelve  years.  And  they  were  astonished  with  a  great
astonishment. 5:43 And he charged them straitly that no man should
know it; and commanded that something should be given her to eat.
6:1 And he went out from thence, and came into his own country;
and his disciples follow him.
The Gospel of Luke tells the same story:
8:40 And it came to pass, that, when Jesus was returned, the
people gladly received him: for they were all waiting for him.8:41
And, behold, there came a man named Jairus, and he was a ruler of
the synagogue: and he fell down at Jesus' feet, and besought him
that he  would come  into  his house: 8:42 For he had one  only
daughter, about twelve years of age, and she lay a dying. But as he
went the people thronged him. 8:43 And a woman having an issue of
blood twelve years, which had spent all her living upon physicians,
neither could be healed of any, 8:44 Came behind him, and touched
the border of his garment: and immediately her issue of blood
stanched. 8:45 And Jesus said, Who touched me? When all denied,
Peter and they that were with him said, Master, the multitude throng
thee and press thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me? 8:46 And
Jesus said, Somebody hath touched me: for I perceive that virtue is
gone out of me. 8:47 And when the woman saw that she was not hid,
she came trembling, and falling down before him, she declared unto

JESUS † The Complete Biography
him before all the people for what cause she had touched him, and
how  she  was  healed  immediately.  8:48  And  he  said  unto  her,
Daughter, be of good comfort: thy faith hath made thee whole; go
in peace. 8:49 While he yet spake, there cometh one from the ruler
of the synagogue's house, saying to him,  Thy daughter is dead;
trouble not the Master. 8:50 But when Jesus heard it, he answered
him, saying, Fear not: believe only, and she shall be made whole. 8:51
And when he came into the house, he suffered no man to go in, save
Peter, and James, and John, and the father and the mother of the
maiden. 8:52 And all wept, and bewailed her: but he said, Weep not;
she is not dead, but sleepeth. 8:53 And they laughed him to scorn,
knowing that she was dead. 8:54 And he put them all out, and took
her by the hand, and called, saying, Maid, arise. 8:55 And her spirit
came again, and she arose straightway: and he commanded to give
her meat. 8:56 And her parents were astonished: but he charged
them that they should tell no man what was done.
The Gospel of Luke tells of another raising from the dead, reported in
the text preceding the raising of Ya’ir’s daughter…this time the son of a
widow from Nain.  “Nain was a small village about 6 miles SE of Nazareth,
Eusebius (Onom 140:3) referred to it as Naeim, 12 miles S of Mount Tabor
near Endor.”220
7:11 And it came to pass the day after, that he went into a city called
Nain; and many of his disciples went with him, and much people.  7:12
Now when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was a
deas man carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a
widow: and much people of the city was with her.  7:13 And when the
Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said unto her, Weep
not.  7:14 And he came and touched the bier: and they that bare him
stood still.  And he said, Young man, I say unto thee, Arise.  7:15 And
he that was dead sat up, and began to speak.  And he delivered him

JESUS † The Complete Biography
to his mother.  7:16 And there came a fear on all: and they glorified
God, saying, That a great prophet is risen up among us: and, That
God hath visited his people.  7:17 And this rumour of him went forth
throughout all Judaea, and throughout all the region round about.

When we encounter the raising of Lazarus in the Gospel of John, we would
be wise to recall that the three synoptic Gospels told of the raising of the
daughter of Ya’ir from death, and that the Gospel of Luke told this story of
the raising of the son of the widow from Nain from death…so the raising of
Lazarus was not an isolated incident in the New Testament.  Furthermore,
there were precedents for the resurrection of the dead associated with holy
men in the Old Testament.  Elijah, in the First Book of Kings (17:17-24):
17:17  And it came to pass after these things, that the son of the
woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick; and his sickness was so
sore, that there was no breath left in him. 17:18  And she said unto
Elijah, What have I to do with thee, O thou man of God? art thou
come unto me to call my sin to remembrance, and to slay my son?
17:19  And he said unto her, Give me thy son. And he took him out of
her bosom, and carried him up into a loft, where he abode, and laid
him upon his own bed. 17:20  And he cried unto the LORD, and said,
O LORD my God, hast thou also brought evil upon the widow with
whom I sojourn, by slaying her son? 17:21  And he stretched himself
upon the child three times, and cried unto the LORD, and said, O
LORD my God, I pray thee, let this child's soul come into him again.
17:22  And the LORD heard the voice of Elijah; and the soul of the
child came into him again, and he revived. 17:23  And Elijah took the
child, and brought him down out of the chamber into the house, and
delivered him unto his mother: and Elijah said, See, thy son liveth.
17:24  And the woman said to Elijah, Now by this I know that thou art
a man of God, and that the word of the LORD in thy mouth is truth.
Elisha was with Elijah when he was on his death bed, and he asked a
crucial question:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
2:9  And it came to pass, when they were gone over, that Elijah said
unto Elisha, Ask what I shall do for thee, before I be taken away
from thee. And Elisha said, I pray thee, let a double portion of thy
spirit be upon me. 2:10  And he said, Thou hast asked a hard thing:
nevertheless, if thou see me when I am taken from thee, it shall be so
unto thee; but if not, it shall not be so. 2:11  And it came to pass, as
they  still  went  on,  and  talked,  that,  behold,  there  appeared  a
chariot of fire, and horses of fire, and parted them both asunder;
and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven. 2:12  And Elisha saw it,
and he cried,  My father, my father, the chariot of Israel, and the
horsemen thereof. And he saw him no more: and he took hold of his
own clothes, and rent them in two pieces. 2:13  He took up also the
mantle of Elijah that fell from him, and went back, and stood by the
bank of Jordan; 2:14  And he took the mantle of Elijah that fell from
him, and smote the waters, and said,  Where is the LORD God of
Elijah? and when he also had smitten the waters, they parted hither
and thither: and Elisha went over. 2:15  And when the sons of the
prophets which were to view at Jericho saw him, they said, The spirit
of Elijah doth rest on Elisha.  And they came to meet him, and
bowed themselves to the ground before him.
This spirit empowered Elisha also to raise from the dead, as told in Second
Book of Kings (4:17-37):
4:17  And the woman conceived, and bare a son at that season that
Elisha had said unto her, according to the time of life. 4:18  And
when the child was grown, it fell on a day, that he went out to his
father to the reapers. 4:19  And he said unto his father, My head,
my head. And he said to a lad, Carry him to his mother. 4:20  And
when he had taken him, and brought him to his mother, he sat on her
knees till noon, and then died. 4:21  And she went up, and laid him
on the bed of the man of God, and shut the door upon him, and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
went out. 4:22  And she called unto her husband, and said,  Send
me, I pray thee, one of the young men, and one of the asses, that I
may run to the man of God, and come again. 4:23  And he said,
Wherefore wilt thou go to him to day? it is neither new moon, nor
sabbath. And she said, It shall be well. 4:24  Then she saddled an
ass, and said to her servant, Drive, and go forward; slack not thy
riding for me, except I bid thee. 4:25  So she went and came unto the
man of God to mount Carmel. And it came to pass, when the man of
God saw her afar off, that he said to Gehazi his servant, Behold,
yonder is that Shunammite: 4:26  Run now, I pray thee, to meet her,
and say unto her, Is it well with thee? is it well with thy husband? is it
well with the child? And she answered, It is well. 4:27  And when she
came to the man of God to the hill, she caught him by the feet: but
Gehazi came near to thrust her away. And the man of God said, Let
her alone; for her soul is vexed within her: and the LORD hath hid it
from me, and hath not told me. 4:28  Then she said, Did I desire a
son of my lord? did I not say, Do not deceive me? 4:29  Then he said
to Gehazi, Gird up thy loins, and take my staff in thine hand, and go
thy way: if thou meet any man, salute him not; and if any salute thee,
answer him not again: and lay my staff upon the face of the child.
4:30  And the mother of the child said, As the LORD liveth, and as
thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. And he arose, and followed her.
4:31  And Gehazi passed on before them, and laid the staff upon the
face  of  the  child;  but  there  was  neither  voice,  nor  hearing.
Wherefore he went again to meet him, and told him, saying, The child
is not awaked.  4:32  And when Elisha was come into the house,
behold, the child was dead, and laid upon his bed. 4:33  He went in
therefore, and shut the door upon them twain, and prayed unto the
LORD. 4:34  And he went up, and lay upon the child, and put his
mouth upon his mouth, and his eyes upon his eyes, and his hands
upon his hands: and he stretched himself upon the child; and the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
flesh of the child waxed warm. 4:35  Then he returned, and walked in
the house to and fro; and went up, and stretched himself upon him:
and the child sneezed seven times, and the child opened his eyes.
4:36  And he called Gehazi, and said, Call this Shunammite. So he
called her. And when she was come in unto him, he said, Take up thy
son. 4:37  Then she went in, and fell at his feet, and bowed herself
to the ground, and took up her son, and went out.
So powerful was the resurrecting spirit of Elisha, that contact with his very
bones resulted in the raising of another man from death, as told in Second
Kings 13:20-21:
13:20  And Elisha died, and they buried him. And the bands of the
Moabites invaded the land at the coming in of the year. 13:21  And it
came to pass, as they were burying a man, that, behold, they spied
a band of men; and they cast the man into the sepulchre of Elisha:
and when the man was let down, and touched the bones of Elisha,
he revived, and stood up on his feet.
Now to continue with the healings reported by the Gospels.  The Gospel
of Matthew tells of the healing of two blind men:
9:27 And when Jesus departed thence, two blind men followed him,
crying, and saying, Thou son of David, have mercy on us.  9:28 And
when he was come into the house, the blind men came to him: and
Jesus saith unto them, Believe ye that I am able to do this? They
said unto him, Yea, Lord. 9:29 Then touched he their eyes, saying,
According to your faith be it unto you.  9:30 And their eyes were
opened; and Jesus straitly charged them, saying, See that no man
know it. 9:31 But they, when they were departed, spread abroad his
fame in all that country.
Later on in the same  Gospel of Matthew, the same story seems to be
repeated:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
20:30 And, behold, two blind men sitting by the way side, when they
heard that Jesus passed by, cried out, saying, Have mercy on us, O
Lord, thou son of David. 20:31 And the multitude rebuked them,
because they should hold their peace: but they cried the more,
saying, Have mercy on us, O Lord, thou son of David. 20:32 And
Jesus stood still, and called them, and said, What will ye that I shall
do unto you? 20:33 They say unto him, Lord, that our eyes may be
opened. 20:34 So Jesus had compassion on them, and touched
their  eyes:  and  immediately  their  eyes  received  sight,  and  they
followed him.
A very similar story is told in the Gospel of Mark, but of one man instead
of two, Bar Timaeus, that is, the son of Timaeus (an ancient Greek name):
10:46 And they came to Jericho: and as he went out of Jericho with
his disciples and a great number of people, blind Bartimaeus, the
son of Timaeus, sat by the highway side begging. 10:47 And when he
heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out, and say,
Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. 10:48 And many
charged him that he should hold his peace: but he cried the more a
great deal, Thou son of David, have mercy on me. 10:49 And Jesus
stood still, and commanded him to be called. And they call the blind
man, saying unto him,  Be of good comfort, rise; he calleth thee.
10:50 And he, casting away his garment, rose, and came to Jesus.
10:51 And Jesus answered and said unto him, What wilt thou that I
should do unto thee? The blind man said unto him, Lord, that I might
receive my sight. 10:52 And Jesus said unto him,  Go thy way; thy
faith hath made thee whole. And immediately he received his sight,
and followed Jesus in the way.
This same story is told in the Gospel of Luke:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
18:35 And it came to pass, that as he was come nigh unto Jericho, a
certain blind man sat by the way side begging: 18:36 And hearing the
multitude pass by, he asked what it meant. 18:37 And they told him,
that Jesus of Nazareth passeth by. 18:38 And he cried, saying,
Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. 18:39 And they which
went before rebuked him, that he should hold his peace: but he
cried so much the more,  Thou son of David, have mercy on me.
18:40 And Jesus stood, and commanded him to be brought unto
him: and when he was come near, he asked him, 18:41 Saying, What
wilt thou that I shall do unto thee?  And he said,  Lord, that I may
receive my sight. 18:42 And Jesus said unto him, Receive thy sight:
thy faith hath saved thee. 18:43 And immediately he received his
sight, and followed him, glorifying God: and all the people, when
they saw it, gave praise unto God.
The Gospel of John does not identify the place, but he tells the story of
Jesus healing a blind man, and once again, breaking the Sabbath:
9:1 And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his
birth. 9:2 And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin,
this  man,  or  his  parents,  that  he  was  born  blind? 9:3  Jesus
answered,  Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents: but that
the works of God should be made manifest in him. 9:4 I must work
the works of him that sent me, while it is day: the night cometh, when
no man can work. 9:5 As long as I am in the world, I am the light of
the world. 9:6 When he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground,
and made clay of the spittle, and he anointed the eyes of the blind
man with the clay, 9:7 And said unto him, Go, wash in the pool of
Siloam,  (which  is  by  interpretation,  Sent.) He  went  his  way
therefore,  and  washed,  and  came  seeing.  9:8  The  neighbours
therefore, and they which before had seen him that he was blind,
said, Is not this he that sat and begged? 9:9 Some said, This is he:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
others said, He is like him: but he said, I am he. 9:10 Therefore said
they unto him, How were thine eyes opened? 9:11 He answered and
said, A man that is called Jesus made clay, and anointed mine eyes,
and said unto me, Go to the pool of Siloam, and wash: and I went
and washed, and I received sight.  9:12 Then said they unto him,
Where is he? He said, I know not. 9:13 They brought to the Pharisees
him that aforetime was blind. 9:14 And it was the sabbath day when
Jesus made the clay, and opened his eyes. 9:15 Then again the
Pharisees also asked him how he had received his sight. He said
unto them, He put clay upon mine eyes, and I washed, and do see.
9:16 Therefore said some of the Pharisees, This man is not of God,
because he keepeth not the sabbath day. Others said, How can a
man that is a sinner do such miracles?  And there was a division
among them. 9:17 They say unto the blind man again, What sayest
thou of him, that he hath opened thine eyes? He said,  He is a
prophet. 9:18 But the Jews did not believe concerning him, that he
had been blind, and received his sight, until they called the parents
of him that had received his sight. 9:19 And they asked them, saying,
Is this your son, who ye say was born blind? how then doth he now
see? 9:20 His parents answered them and said, We know that this is
our son, and that he was born blind: 9:21 But by what means he now
seeth, we know not; or who hath opened his eyes, we know not: he
is of age; ask him: he shall speak for himself. 9:22 These words
spake his parents, because they feared the Jews: for the Jews had
agreed already, that if any man did confess that he was Christ, he
should  be  put  out  of  the  synagogue.  9:23  Therefore  said  his
parents, He is of age; ask him. 9:24 Then again called they the man
that was blind, and said unto him, Give God the praise: we know that
this man is a sinner. 9:25 He answered and said, Whether he be a
sinner or no, I know not: one thing I know, that, whereas I was blind,
now I see. 9:26 Then said they to him again, What did he to thee?

JESUS † The Complete Biography
how opened he thine eyes? 9:27 He answered them, I have told you
already, and ye did not hear: wherefore would ye hear it again? will
ye also be his disciples? 9:28 Then they reviled him, and said, Thou
art his disciple; but we are Moses' disciples. 9:29 We know that God
spake unto Moses: as for this fellow, we know not from whence he
is.  9:30 The man answered and said unto them,  Why herein is a
marvellous thing, that ye know not from whence he is, and yet he
hath opened mine eyes. 9:31 Now we know that God heareth not
sinners: but if any man be a worshipper of God, and doeth his will,
him he heareth. 9:32 Since the world began was it not heard that any
man opened the eyes of one that was born blind. 9:33 If this man
were not of God, he could do nothing. 9:34 They answered and said
unto him, Thou wast altogether born in sins, and dost thou teach
us? And they cast him out. 9:35 Jesus heard that they had cast him
out; and when he had found him, he said unto him,  Dost thou
believe on the Son of God? 9:36 He answered and said, Who is he,
Lord, that I might believe on him?  9:37 And Jesus said unto him,
Thou hast both seen him, and it is he that talketh with thee. 9:38
And he said,  Lord, I believe.  And he worshipped him. 9:39 And
Jesus said, For judgment I am come into this world, that they which
see not might see; and that they which see might be made blind.
9:40 And some of the Pharisees which were with him heard these
words, and said unto him, Are we blind also? 9:41 Jesus said unto
them, If ye were blind, ye should have no sin: but now ye say, We
see; therefore your sin remaineth.
The Gospel of Matthew also refers to the healing of a dumb demoniac,
which story is repeated elsewhere in this Gospel and in the other two
synoptic gospels:
9:32 As they went out, behold, they brought to him a dumb man
possessed with a devil. 9:33 And when the devil was cast out, the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
dumb spake: and the multitudes marvelled, saying, It was never so
seen in Israel. 9:34 But the Pharisees said,  He casteth out devils
through the prince of the devils.
The other iteration of this story in the Gospel of Matthew:
12:22 Then was brought unto him one possessed with a devil, blind,
and dumb: and he healed him, insomuch that the blind and dumb
both spake and saw. 12:23 And all the people were amazed, and
said,  Is not this the son of David?  12:24 But when the Pharisees
heard it, they said,  This fellow doth not cast out devils, but by
Beelzebub the prince of the devils.  12:25 And Jesus knew their
thoughts, and said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself
is brought to desolation; and every city or house divided against
itself shall not stand: 12:26 And if Satan cast out Satan, he is divided
against himself; how shall then his kingdom stand? 12:27 And if I by
Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your children cast them out?
therefore they shall be your judges.  12:28 But if I cast out devils by
the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God is come unto you.
The Gospel of Mark tells part of the story:
3:22 And the scribes which came down from Jerusalem said, He hath
Beelzebub, and by the prince of the devils casteth he out devils.
3:23 And he called them unto him, and said unto them in parables,
How can Satan cast out Satan? 3:24 And if a kingdom be divided
against itself, that kingdom cannot stand.  3:25 And if a house be
divided against itself, that house cannot stand.  3:26 And if Satan
rise up against himself, and be divided, he cannot stand, but hath an
end.  3:27 No man can enter into a strong man's house, and spoil his
goods, except he will first bind the strong man; and then he will spoil
his house.  3:28 Verily I say unto you, All sins shall be forgiven unto
the  sons  of  men,  and  blasphemies  wherewith  soever  they  shall

JESUS † The Complete Biography
blaspheme: 3:29 But he that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost
hath never forgiveness, but is in danger of eternal damnation.  3:30
Because they said, He hath an unclean spirit.
The Gospel of Luke tells part of it as well:
11:14 And he was casting out a devil, and it was dumb. And it came to
pass, when the devil was gone out, the dumb spake; and the people
wondered.  11:15  But  some  of  them  said,  He  casteth  out  devils
through Beelzebub the chief of the devils. 11:16 And others, tempting
him, sought of him a sign from heaven.11:17 But he, knowing their
thoughts, said unto them,  Every kingdom divided against itself is
brought to desolation; and a house divided against a house falleth.
11:18 If Satan also be divided against himself, how shall his kingdom
stand? because ye say that I cast out devils through Beelzebub. 11:19
And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your sons cast
them out? therefore shall they be your judges. 11:20 But if I with the
finger of God cast out devils, no doubt the kingdom of God is come
upon you.
In the  Gospel of Matthew contains a much longer discourse of Jesus
immediately following this:
12:29 Or else how can one enter into a strong man's house, and spoil
his goods, except he first bind the strong man? and then he will spoil
his house. 12:30 He that is not with me is against me; and he that
gathereth not with me scattereth abroad. 12:31 Wherefore I say unto
you, All manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men:
but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven
unto men. 12:32 And whosoever speaketh a word against the Son of
man, it shall be forgiven him: but whosoever speaketh against the
Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, neither
in the world to come. 12:33 Either make the tree good, and his fruit

JESUS † The Complete Biography
good; or else make the tree corrupt, and his fruit corrupt: for the
tree is known by his fruit. 12:34 O generation of vipers, how can ye,
being evil, speak good things? for out of the abundance of the
heart  the  mouth speaketh.  12:35 A  good  man  out  of  the  good
treasure of the heart bringeth forth good things: and an evil man
out of the evil treasure bringeth forth evil things. 12:36 But I say unto
you, That every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give
account thereof in the day of judgment.
12:37 For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou
shalt be condemned. 12:38 Then certain of the scribes and of the
Pharisees answered, saying, Master, we would see a sign from thee.
12:39 But he answered and said unto them, An evil and adulterous
generation seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given to
it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas: 12:40 For as Jonas was three
days and three nights in the whale's belly; so shall the Son of man
be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. 12:41 The
men of Nineveh shall rise in judgment with this generation, and shall
condemn it: because they repented at the preaching of Jonas; and,
behold, a greater than Jonas is here. 12:42 The queen of the south
shall rise up in the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn
it: for she came from the uttermost parts of the earth to hear the
wisdom of Solomon; and, behold, a greater than Solomon is here.
12:43 When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh
through dry places, seeking rest, and findeth none. 12:44 Then he
saith, I will return into my house from whence I came out; and when
he is come, he findeth it empty, swept, and garnished. 12:45 Then
goeth he, and taketh with himself seven other spirits more wicked
than himself, and they enter in and dwell there: and the last state of
that man is worse than the first. Even so shall it be also unto this
wicked generation.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
In the Gospel of Luke portions of this longer discourse is also found:
11:21 When a strong man armed keepeth his palace, his goods are in
peace: 11:22 But when a stronger than he shall come upon him, and
overcome him, he taketh from him all his armour wherein he trusted,
and divideth his spoils. 11:23 He that is not with me is against me: and
he that gathereth not with me scattereth. 11:24 When the unclean
spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh through dry places, seeking
rest; and finding none, he saith, I will return unto my house whence I
came  out.  11:25  And  when  he  cometh,  he  findeth  it  swept  and
garnished. 11:26 Then goeth he, and taketh to him seven other spirits
more wicked than himself; and they enter in, and dwell there: and
the last state of that man is worse than the first. 11:27 And it came to
pass, as he spake these things, a certain woman of the company
lifted up her voice, and said unto him, Blessed is the womb that bare
thee, and the paps which thou hast sucked. 11:28 But he said, Yea
rather, blessed are they that hear the word of God, and keep it.
11:29 And when the people were gathered thick together, he began
to say, This is an evil generation: they seek a sign; and there shall no
sign be given it, but the sign of Jonas the prophet. 11:30 For as
Jonas was a sign unto the Ninevites, so shall also the Son of man be
to this generation. 11:31 The queen of the south shall rise up in the
judgment with the men of this generation, and condemn them: for
she came from the utmost parts of the earth to hear the wisdom of
Solomon; and, behold, a greater than Solomon is here. 11:32 The
men of Nineve shall rise up in the judgment with this generation, and
shall condemn it: for they repented at the preaching of Jonas; and,
behold, a greater than Jonas is here.
The Gospel of Matthew reports another case of breaking the Sabbath,
and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
12:1 At that time Jesus went on the sabbath day through the corn;
and his disciples were an hungred, and began to pluck the ears of
corn and to eat. 12:2 But when the Pharisees saw it, they said unto
him, Behold, thy disciples do that which is not lawful to do upon the
sabbath day. 12:3 But he said unto them,  Have ye not read what
David did, when he was an hungred, and they that were with him;
12:4  How  he  entered  into  the  house  of  God,  and  did  eat  the
shewbread, which was not lawful for him to eat, neither for them
which were with him, but only for the priests?221 12:5 Or have ye not
read in the law, how that on the sabbath days the priests in the
temple profane the sabbath, and are blameless? 12:6 But I say unto
you, That in this place is one greater than the temple. 12:7 But if ye
had known what this meaneth, I will have mercy, and not sacrifice, ye
would not have condemned the guiltless. 12:8 For the Son of man is
Lord even of the sabbath day.
The Gospel of Mark tells much the same story:
2:23 And it came to pass, that he went through the corn fields on the
sabbath day; and his disciples began, as they went, to pluck the
ears of corn. 2:24 And the Pharisees said unto him, Behold, why do
they on the sabbath day that which is not lawful? 2:25 And he said
unto them, Have ye never read what David did, when he had need,
and was an hungred, he, and they that were with him? 2:26 How he
went into the house of God in the days of Abiathar the high priest,
and did eat the shewbread, which is not lawful to eat but for the
priests, and gave also to them which were with him? 2:27 And he said
unto them,  The sabbath was made for man, and not man for the
sabbath:  2:28  Therefore  the  Son  of  man  is  Lord  also  of  the
sabbath.
The Gospel of Luke reiterates the story:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
6:1 And it came to pass on the second sabbath after the first, that
he went through the corn fields; and his disciples plucked the ears
of corn, and did eat, rubbing them in their hands. 6:2 And certain of
the Pharisees said unto them, Why do ye that which is not lawful to
do on the sabbath days? 6:3 And Jesus answering them said, Have
ye not read so much as this, what David did, when himself was an
hungred, and they which were with him; 6:4 How he went into the
house of God, and did take and eat the shewbread, and gave also
to them that were with him; which it is not lawful to eat but for the
priests alone? 6:5 And he said unto them, That the Son of man is
Lord also of the sabbath.
The Gospel of Matthew reports another violation of the Sabbath, when
Jesus healed the man with the withered hand:
12:9  And  when  he  was  departed  thence,  he  went  into  their
synagogue: 12:10 And, behold, there was a man which had his hand
withered. And they asked him, saying,  Is it lawful to heal on the
sabbath days? that they might accuse him. 12:11 And he said unto
them,  What man shall there be among you, that shall have one
sheep, and if it fall into a pit on the sabbath day, will he not lay hold
on it, and lift it out? 12:12 How much then is a man better than a
sheep? Wherefore it is lawful to do well on the sabbath days. 12:13
Then  saith  he  to  the  man,  Stretch  forth  thine  hand.  And  he
stretched it forth; and it was restored whole, like as the other. 12:14
Then the Pharisees went out, and held a council against him, how
they might destroy him.
The Gospel of Mark tells this same story:
3:1 And he entered again into the synagogue; and there was a man
there  which  had  a  withered  hand.  3:2  And  they  watched  him,
whether he would heal him on the sabbath day; that they might

JESUS † The Complete Biography
accuse him. 3:3 And he saith unto the man which had the withered
hand,  Stand forth. 3:4 And he saith unto them,  Is it lawful to do
good on the sabbath days, or to do evil? to save life, or to kill? But
they held their peace. 3:5 And when he had looked round about on
them with anger, being grieved for the hardness of their hearts, he
saith unto the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched it
out: and his hand was restored whole as the other. 3:6 And the
Pharisees  went  forth,  and  straightway  took  counsel  with  the
Herodians against him, how they might destroy him.
The Gospel of Luke likewise:
6:6 And it came to pass also on another sabbath, that he entered
into the synagogue and taught: and there was a man whose right
hand was withered. 6:7 And the scribes and Pharisees watched him,
whether he would heal on the sabbath day; that they might find an
accusation against him. 6:8 But he knew their thoughts, and said to
the man which had the withered hand, Rise up, and stand forth in
the midst. And he arose and stood forth. 6:9 Then said Jesus unto
them, I will ask you one thing; Is it lawful on the sabbath days to do
good, or to do evil? to save life, or to destroy it? 6:10 And looking
round about upon them all, he said unto the man, Stretch forth thy
hand. And he did so: and his hand was restored whole as the other.
6:11 And they were filled with madness; and communed one with
another what they might do to Jesus.
14:5 And answered them, saying, Which of you shall have an ass or
an ox fallen into a pit, and will not straightway pull him out on the
sabbath day?
6:9 Then said Jesus unto them, I will ask you one thing; Is it lawful on
the sabbath days to do good, or to do evil? to save life, or to

JESUS † The Complete Biography
destroy it? 6:10 And looking round about upon them all, he said
unto the man, Stretch forth thy hand. And he did so: and his hand
was restored whole as the other. 6:11 And they were filled with
madness; and communed one with another what they might do to
Jesus.
There are two other stories of healings on the Sabbath in the Gospel of
Luke which are found in no other Gospel:
13:10 And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the sabbath.
13:11 And, behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity
eighteen years, and was bowed together, and could in no wise lift up
herself. 13:12 And when Jesus saw her, he called her to him, and said
unto her, Woman, thou art loosed from thine infirmity. 13:13 And he
laid his hands on her: and immediately she was made straight, and
glorified God. 13:14 And the ruler of the synagogue answered with
indignation, because that Jesus had healed on the sabbath day,
and said unto the people, There are six days in which men ought to
work:  in  them  therefore  come  and  be  healed,  and  not  on  the
sabbath day. 13:15 The Lord then answered him, and said,  Thou
hypocrite, doth not each one of you on the sabbath loose his ox or
his ass from the stall, and lead him away to watering? 13:16 And
ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan
hath bound, lo, these eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on
the sabbath day?  13:17 And when he had said these things, all his
adversaries were ashamed: and all the people rejoiced for all the
glorious things that were done by him.
14:1 And it came to pass, as he went into the house of one of the
chief Pharisees to eat bread on the sabbath day, that they watched
him. 14:2 And, behold, there was a certain man before him which had
the dropsy. 14:3 And Jesus answering spake unto the lawyers and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath day? 14:4 And
they held their peace. And he took him, and healed him, and let him
go; 14:5 And answered them, saying, Which of you shall have an ass
or an ox fallen into a pit, and will not straightway pull him out on the
sabbath day?  14:6 And they could not answer him again to these
things.
We’ll give Jesus recorded in the  Gospel of John the last word on this
theme, with his staunch defence of healing on the Sabbath:
7:22 Moses therefore gave unto you circumcision; (not because it is
of  Moses,  but  of  the  fathers;)  and  ye  on  the  sabbath  day
circumcise  a  man.  7:23  If  a  man  on  the  sabbath  day  receive
circumcision, that the law of Moses should not be broken; are ye
angry at me, because I have made a man every whit whole on the
sabbath day? 7:24 Judge not according to the appearance, but
judge righteous judgment.
Jesus heals the multitudes
The synoptic gospels report mass healings as well, and we will begin with
the Gospel of Matthew as it left off after describing the healing of the
man with withered hand:
12:15 But when Jesus knew it, he withdrew himself from thence: and
great multitudes followed him, and he healed them all…
4:24 And his fame went throughout all Syria: and they brought unto
him  all  sick  people  that  were  taken  with  divers  diseases  and
torments, and those which were possessed with devils, and those
which were lunatick, and those that had the palsy; and he healed
them. 4:25 And there followed him great multitudes of people from
Galilee, and from Decapolis, and from Jerusalem, and from Judaea,
and from beyond Jordan.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
12:16 And charged them that they should not make him known: 12:17
That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the prophet,
saying, 12:18 Behold my servant, whom I have chosen; my beloved, in
whom my soul is well pleased: I will put my spirit upon him, and he
shall shew judgment to the Gentiles. 12:19 He shall not strive, nor cry;
neither shall any man hear his voice in the streets. 12:20 A bruised
reed shall he not break, and smoking flax shall he not quench, till he
send forth judgment unto victory.  12:21  And in his name shall the
Gentiles trust.
14:35 And when the men of that place had knowledge of him, they
sent out into all that country round about, and brought unto him all
that were diseased; 14:36 And besought him that they might only
touch the hem of his garment: and as many as touched were made
perfectly whole.
The Gospel of Mark tells part of this story:
3:7 But Jesus withdrew himself with his disciples to the sea: and a
great multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judaea, 3:8 And
from Jerusalem, and from Idumaea, and from beyond Jordan; and
they about Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, when they had heard
what great things he did, came unto him. 3:9 And he spake to his
disciples,  that  a  small  ship  should  wait  on  him  because  of  the
multitude, lest they should throng him. 3:10 For he had healed many;
insomuch that they pressed upon him for to touch him, as many as
had plagues. 3:11 And unclean spirits, when they saw him, fell down
before him, and cried, saying, Thou art the Son of God. 3:12 And he
straitly charged them that they should not make him known.
6:56  And  whithersoever  he  entered,  into  villages,  or  cities,  or
country, they laid the sick in the streets, and besought him that they

JESUS † The Complete Biography
might touch if it were but the border of his garment: and as many as
touched him were made whole.
The Gospel of Luke tells more the story:
6:17 And he came down with them, and stood in the plain, and the
company of his disciples, and a great multitude of people out of all
Judaea and Jerusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon,
which came to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases; 6:18 And
they that were vexed with unclean spirits: and they were healed.
4:41 And devils also came out of many, crying out, and saying, Thou
art Christ the Son of God. And he rebuking them suffered them not
to speak: for they knew that he was Christ.
6:19 And the whole multitude sought to touch him: for there went
virtue out of him, and healed them all.
Jesus answers those who claim he is Satan
The Pharisees heard that the people wondered if Jesus was the Messiah,
and the Pharisees sought to discredit Jesus, as found in the  Gospel of
Matthew:
12:23  And all the people were amazed, and said, Is not this the son
of David?  12:24  But when the Pharisees heard it, they said,  This
fellow doth not cast out devils, but by Beelzebub the prince of the
devils. 12:25  And Jesus knew their thoughts, and said unto them,
Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and
every city or house divided against itself shall not stand: 12:26  And
if Satan cast out Satan, he is divided against himself; how shall then
his kingdom stand? 12:27  And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by
whom do your children cast them out? therefore they shall be your
judges. 12:28  But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of God, then the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
kingdom of God is come unto you.  12:29 Or else how can one enter
into a strong man's house, and spoil his goods, except he first bind
the strong man? and then he will spoil his house.  12:30 He that is not
with me is against me; and he that gathereth not with me scattereth
abroad.  12:31 Wherefore I say unto you, All manner of sin and
blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men: but the blasphemy against
the  Holy  Ghost  shall  not  be  forgiven  unto  men.   12:32  And
whosoever speaketh a word against the Son of man, it shall be
forgiven him: but whosoever speaketh against the Holy Ghost, it
shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, neither in the world to
come.  12:33 Either make the tree good, and his fruit good; or else
make the tree corrupt, and his fruit corrupt: for the tree is known
by his fruit.  12:34 O generation of vipers, how can ye, being evil,
speak good things? for out of the abundance of the heart the
mouth speaketh.  12:35 A good man out of the good treasure of the
heart bringeth forth good things: and an evil man out of the evil
treasure bringeth forth evil things.  12:36 But I say unto you, That
every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof
in the day of judgment.  12:37 For by thy words thou shalt be
justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned.
The same story is told in the Gospel of Mark;
3:22  And the scribes which came down from Jerusalem said,  He
hath Beelzebub, and by the prince of the devils casteth he out
devils.  3:23  And he called them unto him, and said unto them in
parables, How can Satan cast out Satan? 3:24  And if a kingdom be
divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. 3:25  And if a
house be divided against itself, that house cannot stand. 3:26  And
if Satan rise up against himself, and be divided, he cannot stand,
but hath an end. 3:27  No man can enter into a strong man's house,
and spoil his goods, except he will first bind the strong man; and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
then he will spoil his house. 3:28  Verily I say unto you, All sins shall
be  forgiven  unto  the  sons  of  men,  and  blasphemies  wherewith
soever  they  shall  blaspheme:  3:29  But  he  that  shall  blaspheme
against the Holy Ghost hath never forgiveness, but is in danger of
eternal damnation: 3:30  Because they said, He hath an unclean
spirit.
Likewise in the Gospel of Luke:
11:15  But  some  of  them  said,  He  casteth  out  devils  through
Beelzebub the chief of the devils.  11:16  And others, tempting him,
sought  of  him  a  sign  from  heaven.  11:17  But  he,  knowing  their
thoughts, said unto them,  Every kingdom divided against itself is
brought to desolation; and a house divided against a house falleth.
11:18  If Satan also be divided against himself, how shall his kingdom
stand? because ye say that I cast out devils through Beelzebub.
11:19  And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your sons
cast them out? therefore shall they be your judges. 11:20  But if I
with the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt the kingdom of God
is  come  upon  you.  11:21  When  a  strong  man  armed  keepeth  his
palace, his goods are in peace: 11:22  But when a stronger than he
shall come upon him, and overcome him, he taketh from him all his
armour wherein he trusted, and divideth his spoils. 11:23  He that is
not  with  me  is  against  me:  and  he  that  gathereth  not  with  me
scattereth. 11:24  When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he
walketh through dry places, seeking rest; and finding none, he saith,
I will return unto my house whence I came out. 11:25  And when he
cometh, he findeth it swept and garnished. 11:26  Then goeth he, and
taketh to him seven other spirits more wicked than himself; and they
enter in, and dwell there: and the last state of that man is worse than
the first.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Jesus answers those who ask for a sign
After this event Jesus is accosted by the Pharisees who ask for a sign of his
prophetic station.  This story is told in the Gospel of Matthew:
12:38 Then certain of the scribes and of the Pharisees answered,
saying,  Master,  we  would  see  a  sign  from  thee.  12:39  But  he
answered and said unto them,  An evil and adulterous generation
seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given to it, but the
sign of the prophet Jonas: 12:40 For as Jonas was three days and
three nights in the whale's belly; so shall the Son of man be three
days and three nights in the heart of the earth. 12:41 The men of
Nineveh  shall  rise  in  judgment  with  this  generation,  and  shall
condemn it: because they repented at the preaching of Jonas; and,
behold, a greater than Jonas is here.  12:42 The queen of the south
shall rise up in the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn
it: for she came from the uttermost parts of the earth to hear the
wisdom of Solomon; and, behold, a greater than Solomon is here.
12:43 When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh
through dry places, seeking rest, and findeth none.  12:44 Then he
saith, I will return into my house from whence I came out; and when
he is come, he findeth it empty, swept, and garnished.  12:45 Then
goeth he, and taketh with himself seven other spirits more wicked
than himself, and they enter in and dwell there: and the last state of
that man is worse than the first. Even so shall it be also unto this
wicked generation.
Even so in the Gospel of Luke:
11:29  And when the people were gathered thick together, he began
to say, This is an evil generation: they seek a sign; and there shall no
sign be given it, but the sign of Jonas the prophet. 11:30  For as

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Jonas was a sign unto the Ninevites, so shall also the Son of man be
to this generation. 11:31  The queen of the south shall rise up in the
judgment with the men of this generation, and condemn them: for
she came from the utmost parts of the earth to hear the wisdom of
Solomon; and, behold, a greater than Solomon is here. 11:32  The
men of Nineve shall rise up in the judgment with this generation, and
shall condemn it: for they repented at the preaching of Jonas; and,
behold, a greater than Jonas is here. 11:33  No man, when he hath
lighted a candle, putteth it in a secret place, neither under a bushel,
but on a candlestick, that they which come in may see the light.
11:34  The light of the body is the eye: therefore when thine eye is
single, thy whole body also is full of light; but when thine eye is evil,
thy body also is full of darkness. 11:35  Take heed therefore that the
light  which  is  in  thee  be  not  darkness.  11:36  If  thy  whole  body
therefore be full of light, having no part dark, the whole shall be full
of light, as when the bright shining of a candle doth give thee light.
Jesus re-defines family for his followers
He then is summoned to speak to his family, who were standing outside
the meeting, according to the Gospel of Matthew:
12:46 While he yet talked to the people, behold, his mother and his
brethren stood without, desiring to speak with him.  12:47 Then one
said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren stand without,
desiring to speak with thee.  12:48 But he answered and said unto
him that told him,  Who is my mother? and who are my brethren?
12:49 And he stretched forth his hand toward his disciples, and
said, Behold my mother and my brethren! 12:50 For whosoever shall
do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother,
and sister, and mother.
The same is found in the Gospel of Mark:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
3:31 There came then his brethren and his mother, and, standing
without, sent unto him, calling him.  3:32 And the multitude sat about
him, and they said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren
without seek for thee.  3:33 And he answered them, saying, Who is
my mother, or my brethren? 3:34 And he looked round about on
them which sat about him, and said, Behold my mother and my
brethren! 3:35 For whosoever shall do the will of God, the same is my
brother, and my sister, and mother.
Similarly in the Gospel of Luke:
8:19 Then came to him his mother and his brethren, and could not
come at him for the press. 8:20 And it was told him by certain which
said,  Thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to see
thee. 8:21 And he answered and said unto them, My mother and my
brethren are these which hear the word of God, and do it.

In the  Gospel of the Ebionites222, “from the word which the Savior
spoke when it was announced to him,”
Behold, your mother and your brothers stand without.
Who are my mother and brothers?
And stretching out his hand toward his disciples, he said,
These who do the will of my Father are my brothers and mother and
sisters.
Jesus has been credited with being a supporter of the traditional family…
and yet these words of his clearly indicate that, in the kingdom of God, the
family  of  brethren  in  faith  supercedes  the  family  of  blood  ties.   He
underscores this principle in one of his sermons, reported in two of the
synoptic Gospels; first in the Gospel of Matthew:
10:32  Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men, him will I
confess  also  before  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven.  10:33  But
whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Father which is in heaven. 10:34  Think not that I am come to send
peace on earth: I came not to send peace, but a sword. 10:35  For I
am  come  to  set  a  man  at  variance  against  his  father,  and  the
daughter against her mother, and the daughter in law against her
mother in law. 10:36  And a man's foes shall be they of his own
household. 10:37  He that loveth father or mother more than me is
not worthy of me: and he that loveth son or daughter more than me
is not worthy of me.
Then the Gospel of Luke:
12:49  I am come to send fire on the earth; and what will I, if it be
already kindled? 12:50  But I have a baptism to be baptized with; and
how am I straitened till it be accomplished! 12:51  Suppose ye that I
am come to give peace on earth? I tell you, Nay; but rather division:
12:52  For from henceforth there shall be five in one house divided,
three against two, and two against three. 12:53  The father shall be
divided against the son, and the son against the father; the mother
against the daughter, and the daughter against the mother; the
mother in law against her daughter in law, and the daughter in law
against her mother in law.
While the Gospel of John does not cite either the meeting with his family
or this sermon, it showcases the following teaching, which may appear to
be a mere repetition of Leviticus (19:18), but, in the light of the priority
Jesus places on the family of believers, it has far more significance:
13:34  A  new  commandment  I  give  unto  you,  That  ye  love  one
another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another. 13:35  By
this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to
another.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
15:9  As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you: continue ye in
my love. 15:10  If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my
love; even as I have kept my Father's commandments, and abide in
his love. 15:11  These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might
remain in you, and that your joy might be full. 15:12  This is my
commandment, That  ye  love  one  another, as I have loved  you.
15:13  Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life
for  his  friends.  15:14  Ye  are  my  friends,  if  ye  do  whatsoever  I
command you. 15:15  Henceforth I call you not  servants; for the
servant knoweth not what his lord doeth: but I have called you
friends; for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made
known unto you. 15:16  Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen
you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and
that your fruit should remain: that whatsoever ye shall ask of the
Father in my name, he may give it you. 15:17  These things I command
you, that ye love one another.
The Second Epistle of John reiterates this teaching:
1:5  And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new
commandment unto thee, but that which we had from the beginning,
that we love one another. 1:6  And this is love, that we walk after his
commandments. This is the commandment, That, as ye have heard
from the beginning, ye should walk in it.
In contrast to this teaching is the behavior of his brothers, as told in the
Gospel of John:
7:2  Now  the  Jews'  feast  of  tabernacles  was  at  hand.  7:3  His
brethren  therefore  said  unto  him,  Depart  hence,  and  go  into
Judaea, that thy disciples also may see the works that thou doest.
7:4  For there is no man that doeth any thing in secret, and he
himself seeketh to be known openly. If thou do these things, shew

JESUS † The Complete Biography
thyself to the world. 7:5  For neither did his brethren believe in him.
7:6  Then Jesus said unto them, My time is not yet come: but your
time is alway ready. 7:7  The world cannot hate you; but me it hateth,
because I testify of it, that the works thereof are evil. 7:8  Go ye up
unto this feast: I go not up yet unto this feast: for my time is not yet
full come. 7:9  When he had said these words unto them, he abode
still in Galilee. 7:10  But when his brethren were gone up, then went
he also up unto the feast, not openly, but as it were in secret.
This brief passage indicates that his brothers had some interaction with
him, and sought to persuade him to accompany them to Jerusalem to
observe the Jewish festival of Sukkot.  It also reports “neither did his
brethren believe in him”, and hence they were apparently seeking the
approval of others when they advised him to “shew thyself to the world”,
notwithstanding that “neither did his brethren believe in him.”  This is not
the loyalty of a true brother, this is the manipulative behavior of a brother
who seeks his own advantage, regardless of the cost.  It is not surprising
then that Jesus should have assigned his mother to the care of his “beloved
disciple”, inasmuch as leaving her to his blood relations was clearly not in
her best interest.
Jesus preaches from the sea of Galilee
After this encounter with his family, Jesus takes a ship out into the Sea of
Galilee and preaches from there.  This is described in the  Gospel of
Matthew:
13:1 The same day went Jesus out of the house, and sat by the sea
side.  13:2 And great multitudes were gathered together unto him, so
that he went into a ship, and sat; and the whole multitude stood on
the shore.  13:3 And he spake many things unto them in parables,
saying, Behold, a sower went forth to sow; 13:4 And when he sowed,
some seeds fell by the way side, and the fowls came and devoured
them up: 13:5 Some fell upon stony places, where they had not much
earth:  and  forthwith  they  sprung  up,  because  they  had  no
deepness  of  earth:  13:6  And  when  the  sun  was  up,  they  were
scorched; and because they had no root, they withered away.  13:7

JESUS † The Complete Biography
And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprung up, and choked
them: 13:8 But other fell into good ground, and brought forth fruit,
some an hundredfold, some sixtyfold, some thirtyfold.  13:9 Who
hath ears to hear, let him hear.  13:10 And the disciples came, and
said unto him,  Why speakest thou unto them in parables? 13:11 He
answered and said unto them, Because it is given unto you to know
the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given.
13:12 For whosoever hath, to him shall be given, and he shall have
more abundance: but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken
away even that he hath.  13:13 Therefore speak I to them in parables:
because they seeing see not; and hearing they hear not, neither do
they understand.  13:14 And in them is fulfilled the prophecy of
Esaias,  which  saith,  By  hearing  ye  shall  hear,  and  shall  not
understand; and seeing ye shall see, and shall not perceive: 13:15 For
this people's heart is waxed gross, and their ears are dull of hearing,
and their eyes they have closed; lest at any time they should see
with their eyes and hear with their ears, and should understand with
their heart, and should be converted, and I should heal them.  13:16
But blessed are your eyes, for they see: and your ears, for they
hear.  13:17 For verily I say unto you, That many prophets and
righteous men have desired to see those things which ye see, and
have not seen them; and to hear those things which ye hear, and
have not heard them.  13:18 Hear ye therefore the parable of the
sower.  13:19 When any one heareth the word of the kingdom, and
understandeth it not, then cometh the wicked one, and catcheth
away that which was sown in his heart. This is he which received
seed by the way side.  13:20 But he that received the seed into stony
places, the same is he that heareth the word, and anon with joy
receiveth it; 13:21 Yet hath he not root in himself, but dureth for a
while: for when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the
word, by and by he is offended.  13:22 He also that received seed

JESUS † The Complete Biography
among the thorns is he that heareth the word; and the care of this
world, and the deceitfulness of riches, choke the word, and he
becometh unfruitful.  13:23 But he that received seed into the good
ground is he that heareth the word, and understandeth it; which
also beareth fruit, and bringeth forth, some an hundredfold, some
sixty, some thirty.  13:24 Another parable put he forth unto them,
saying, The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man which sowed
good seed in his field: 13:25 But while men slept, his enemy came and
sowed tares among the wheat, and went his way.  13:26 But when the
blade was sprung up, and brought forth fruit, then appeared the
tares also.  13:27 So the servants of the householder came and said
unto him, Sir, didst not thou sow good seed in thy field? from
whence then hath it tares? 13:28 He said unto them, An enemy hath
done this. The servants said unto him, Wilt thou then that we go and
gather them up? 13:29 But he said, Nay; lest while ye gather up the
tares, ye root up also the wheat with them.  13:30 Let both grow
together until the harvest: and in the time of harvest I will say to the
reapers,  Gather  ye  together  first  the  tares,  and  bind  them  in
bundles to burn them: but gather the wheat into my barn.  13:31
Another parable put he forth unto them, saying, The kingdom of
heaven is like to a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and
sowed in his field: 13:32 Which indeed is the least of all seeds: but
when it is grown, it is the greatest among herbs, and becometh a
tree, so that the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches
thereof.  13:33 Another parable spake he unto them; The kingdom
of heaven is like unto leaven, which a woman took, and hid in three
measures of meal, till the whole was leavened.  13:34 All these things
spake Jesus unto the multitude in parables; and without a parable
spake he not unto them: 13:35 That it might be fulfilled which was
spoken by the prophet, saying, I will open my mouth in parables; I
will utter things which have been kept secret from the foundation of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the world. 13:36 Then Jesus sent the multitude away, and went into
the house: and his disciples came unto him, saying, Declare unto us
the parable of the tares of the field.  13:37 He answered and said
unto them, He that soweth the good seed is the Son of man; 13:38
The  field  is  the  world;  the  good  seed  are  the  children  of  the
kingdom; but the tares are the children of the wicked one; 13:39 The
enemy that sowed them is the devil; the harvest is the end of the
world; and the reapers are the angels. 13:40 As therefore the tares
are gathered and burned in the fire; so shall it be in the end of this
world. 13:41 The Son of man shall send forth his angels, and they
shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend, and them
which do iniquity; 13:42 And shall cast them into a furnace of fire:
there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. 13:43 Then shall the
righteous shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father. Who
hath ears to hear, let him hear. 13:44 Again, the kingdom of heaven
is like unto treasure hid in a field; the which when a man hath found,
he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, and
buyeth that field. 13:45 Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a
merchant  man,  seeking  goodly  pearls:  13:46  Who,  when  he  had
found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and
bought it. 13:47 Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a net, that
was cast into the sea, and gathered of every kind: 13:48 Which, when
it was full, they drew to shore, and sat down, and gathered the good
into vessels, but cast the bad away. 13:49 So shall it be at the end of
the world: the angels shall come forth, and sever the wicked from
among the just, 13:50 And shall cast them into the furnace of fire:
there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth. 13:51 Jesus saith unto
them, Have ye understood all these things? They say unto him, Yea,
Lord. 13:52 Then said he unto them, Therefore every scribe which is
instructed unto the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is an
householder, which bringeth forth out of his treasure things new

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and old. 13:53 And it came to pass, that when Jesus had finished
these parables, he departed thence.
And the same is found, with variations, in the Gospel of Mark:
4:1 And he began again to teach by the sea side: and there was
gathered unto him a great multitude, so that he entered into a ship,
and sat in the sea; and the whole multitude was by the sea on the
land.  4:2 And he taught them many things by parables, and said
unto them in his doctrine,  4:3 Hearken; Behold, there went out a
sower to sow: 4:4 And it came to pass, as he sowed, some fell by
the way side, and the fowls of the air came and devoured it up.  4:5
And some fell on stony ground, where it had not much earth; and
immediately it sprang up, because it had no depth of earth: 4:6 But
when the sun was up, it was scorched; and because it had no root, it
withered away.  4:7 And some fell among thorns, and the thorns
grew up, and choked it, and it yielded no fruit.  4:8 And other fell on
good ground, and did yield fruit that sprang up and increased; and
brought forth, some thirty, and some sixty, and some an hundred.
4:9 And he said unto them, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.
4:10 And when he was alone, they that were about him with the
twelve asked of him the parable.  4:11 And he said unto them, Unto
you it is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God: but unto
them that are without, all these things are done in parables: 4:12
That seeing they may see, and not perceive; and hearing they may
hear,  and  not  understand;  lest  at  any  time  they  should  be
converted, and their sins should be forgiven them.  4:13 And he said
unto them, Know ye not this parable? and how then will ye know all
parables? 4:14 The sower soweth the word.  4:15 And these are they
by the way side, where the word is sown; but when they have heard,
Satan cometh immediately, and taketh away the word that was sown
in their hearts.  4:16 And these are they likewise which are sown on

JESUS † The Complete Biography
stony ground; who, when they have heard the word, immediately
receive it with gladness; 4:17 And have no root in themselves, and so
endure but for a time: afterward, when affliction or persecution
ariseth for the word's sake, immediately they are offended.  4:18
And these are they which are sown among thorns; such as hear the
word, 4:19 And the cares of this world, and the deceitfulness of
riches, and the lusts of other things entering in, choke the word,
and it becometh unfruitful.  4:20 And these are they which are sown
on good ground; such as hear the word, and receive it, and bring
forth fruit, some thirtyfold, some sixty, and some an hundred.  4:21
And he said unto them, Is a candle brought to be put under a
bushel, or under a bed? and not to be set on a candlestick? 4:22
For there is nothing hid, which shall not be manifested; neither was
any thing kept secret, but that it should come abroad.  4:23 If any
man have ears to hear, let him hear.  4:24 And he said unto them,
Take heed what ye hear: with what measure ye mete, it shall be
measured to you: and unto you that hear shall more be given.  4:25
For he that hath, to him shall be given: and he that hath not, from
him shall be taken even that which he hath.  4:26 And he said, So is
the kingdom of God, as if a man should cast seed into the ground;
4:27 And should sleep, and rise night and day, and the seed should
spring and grow up, he knoweth not how.  4:28 For the earth
bringeth forth fruit of herself; first the blade, then the ear, after
that the full corn in the ear.  4:29 But when the fruit is brought
forth, immediately he putteth in the sickle, because the harvest is
come.  4:30 And he said, Whereunto shall we liken the kingdom of
God? or with what comparison shall we compare it? 4:31 It is like a
grain of mustard seed, which, when it is sown in the earth, is less
than all the seeds that be in the earth: 4:32 But when it is sown, it
groweth up, and becometh greater than all herbs, and shooteth out
great branches; so that the fowls of the air may lodge under the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
shadow of it.  4:33 And with many such parables spake he the word
unto them, as they were able to hear it.  4:34 But without a parable
spake he not unto them: and when they were alone, he expounded
all things to his disciples.  4:35 And the same day, when the even was
come, he saith unto them, Let us pass over unto the other side.
The Tamer of tempest and Healer of madness
Another chapter took place after he preached these parables, as told in the
Gospel of Matthew:
8:23 And when he was entered into a ship, his disciples followed him.
8:24 And, behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea, insomuch
that the ship was covered with the waves: but he was asleep. 8:25
And his disciples came to him, and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us:
we perish. 8:26 And he saith unto them, Why are ye fearful, O ye of
little faith? Then he arose, and rebuked the winds and the sea; and
there was a great calm.  8:27 But the men marvelled, saying, What
manner of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him! 8:28
And when he was come to the other side into the country of the
Gergesenes, there met him two possessed with devils, coming out of
the tombs, exceeding fierce, so that no man might pass by that way.
8:29 And, behold, they cried out, saying, What have we to do with
thee, Jesus, thou Son of God? art thou come hither to torment us
before the time? 8:30 And there was a good way off from them an
herd of many swine feeding.  8:31 So the devils besought him, saying,
If thou cast us out, suffer us to go away into the herd of swine.  8:32
And he said unto them,  Go. And when they were come out, they
went into the herd of swine: and, behold, the whole herd of swine
ran violently down a steep place into the sea, and perished in the
waters. 8:33 And they that kept them fled, and went their ways into
the  city,  and  told  every  thing,  and  what  was  befallen  to  the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
possessed of the devils. 8:34 And, behold, the whole city came out
to meet Jesus: and when they saw him, they besought him that he
would depart out of their coasts. 9:1 And he entered into a ship, and
passed over, and came into his own city.
The same chapter is recorded in the Gospel of Mark, in much greater
detail:
4:36 And when they had sent away the multitude, they took him
even as he was in the ship. And there were also with him other little
ships. 4:37 And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves
beat into the ship, so that it was now full. 4:38 And he was in the
hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow: and they awake him, and
say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish? 4:39 And he
arose, and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace, be still.
And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm. 4:40 And he said
unto them, Why are ye so fearful? how is it that ye have no faith?
4:41 And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, What
manner of man is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him? 5:1
And they came over unto the other side of the sea, into the country
of the Gadarenes. 5:2 And when he was come out of the ship,
immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean
spirit, 5:3 Who had his dwelling among the tombs; and no man could
bind him, no, not with chains: 5:4 Because that he had been often
bound with fetters and chains, and the chains had been plucked
asunder by him, and the fetters broken in pieces: neither could any
man  tame  him.  5:5  And  always,  night  and  day,  he  was  in  the
mountains, and in the tombs, crying, and cutting himself with stones.
5:6 But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him, 5:7
And cried with a loud voice, and said, What have I to do with thee,
Jesus, thou Son of the most high God? I adjure thee by God, that
thou torment me not. 5:8 For he said unto him, Come out of the man,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
thou unclean spirit. 5:9 And he asked him, What is thy name? And he
answered, saying, My name is Legion: for we are many. 5:10 And he
besought him much that he would not send them away out of the
country. 5:11 Now there was there nigh unto the mountains a great
herd of swine feeding.  5:12 And all the devils besought him, saying,
Send us into the swine, that we may enter into them.  5:13 And
forthwith Jesus gave them leave. And the unclean spirits went out,
and entered into the swine: and the herd ran violently down a steep
place into the sea, (they were about two thousand;) and were
choked in the sea. 5:14 And they that fed the swine fled, and told it
in the city, and in the country. And they went out to see what it was
that was done. 5:15 And they come to Jesus, and see him that was
possessed with the devil, and had the legion, sitting, and clothed,
and in his right mind: and they were afraid. 5:16 And they that saw it
told them how it befell to him that was possessed with the devil, and
also concerning the swine. 5:17 And they began to pray him to
depart out of their coasts. 5:18 And when he was come into the ship,
he that had been possessed with the devil prayed him that he might
be with him. 5:19 Howbeit Jesus suffered him not, but saith unto him,
Go home to thy friends, and tell them how great things the Lord
hath done for thee, and hath had compassion on thee. 5:20 And he
departed, and began to publish in Tetrarchy of Philip how great
things Jesus had done for him: and all men did marvel. 5:21 And when
Jesus was passed over again by ship unto the other side, much
people gathered unto him: and he was nigh unto the sea.
And in the Gospel of Luke the same story appears:
8:22 Now it came to pass on a certain day, that he went into a ship
with his disciples: and he said unto them, Let us go over unto the
other side of the lake. And they launched forth. 8:23 But as they
sailed he fell asleep: and there came down a storm of wind on the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
lake; and they were filled with water, and were in jeopardy. 8:24 And
they came to him, and awoke him, saying, Master, master, we perish.
Then he arose, and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water:
and they ceased, and there was a calm. 8:25 And he said unto them,
Where is your faith? And they being afraid wondered, saying one to
another, What manner of man is this! for he commandeth even the
winds and water, and they obey him. 8:26 And they arrived at the
country of the Gadarenes, which is over against Galilee. 8:27 And
when he went forth to land, there met him out of the city a certain
man, which had devils long time, and ware no clothes, neither abode
in any house, but in the tombs. 8:28 When he saw Jesus, he cried
out, and fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, What have
I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of God most high? I beseech thee,
torment me not. 8:29 (For he had commanded the unclean spirit to
come out of the man. For oftentimes it had caught him: and he was
kept bound with chains and in fetters; and he brake the bands, and
was driven of the devil into the wilderness.) 8:30 And Jesus asked
him, saying, What is thy name? And he said, Legion: because many
devils were entered into him. 8:31 And they besought him that he
would not command them to go out into the deep. 8:32 And there
was there an herd of many swine feeding on the mountain: and they
besought him that he would suffer them to enter into them. And he
suffered  them.  8:33  Then  went  the  devils  out  of  the  man,  and
entered into the swine: and the herd ran violently down a steep
place into the lake, and were choked. 8:34 When they that fed them
saw what was done, they fled, and went and told it in the city and in
the country. 8:35 Then they went out to see what was done; and
came to Jesus, and found the man, out of whom the devils were
departed, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed, and in his right mind:
and they were afraid. 8:36 They also which saw it told them by what
means he that was possessed of the devils was healed. 8:37 Then

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the whole multitude of the country of the Gadarenes round about
besought him to depart from them; for they were taken with great
fear: and he went up into the ship, and returned back again. 8:38
Now the man out of whom the devils were departed besought him
that he might be with him: but Jesus sent him away, saying,  8:39
Return to thine own house, and shew how great things God hath
done unto thee.  And he went his way, and published throughout
the whole city how great things Jesus had done unto him. 8:40 And
it came to pass, that, when Jesus was returned, the people gladly
received him: for they were all waiting for him.
Jesus thought to be the return of John
In the  Gospel of Matthew, Herod the tetrarch learns of the fame of
Jesus, and this prompts him to suspect that John the Baptist has risen
from the dead:
14:1  At that time Herod the tetrarch heard of the fame of Jesus,
14:2  And said unto his servants, This is John the Baptist; he is risen
from  the  dead;  and  therefore  mighty  works  do  shew  forth
themselves in him.
According to the  Gospel of Mark, it was when the disciples began to
preach and heal that Herod Antipas enquired whether Jesus was John
“risen from the dead”:
6:12 And they went out, and preached that men should repent.  6:13
And they cast out many devils, and anointed with oil many that were
sick, and healed them.  6:14 And king Herod heard of him; (for his
name was spread abroad:) and he said, That John the Baptist was
risen from the dead, and therefore mighty works do shew forth
themselves in him.  6:15 Others said, That it is Elias. And others said,
That it is a prophet, or as one of the prophets.  6:16 But when

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Herod heard thereof, he said,  It is John, whom I beheaded: he is
risen from the dead.
Likewise the Gospel of Luke reports the very same story:
9:6 And they departed, and went through the towns, preaching the
gospel, and healing every where.  9:7 Now Herod the tetrarch heard
of all that was done by him: and he was perplexed, because that it
was said of some, that John was risen from the dead; 9:8 And of
some, that Elias had appeared; and of others, that one of the old
prophets  was  risen  again.  9:9  And  Herod  said,  John  have  I
beheaded: but who is this, of whom I hear such things? And he
desired to see him.
Herod Antipas would see Jesus, but not at this time.  That meeting would
have to wait, as also a meeting with his brother, Herod Archelaus.
Jesus visits Samaria on his way from the Galilee to
Jerusalem
The  Gospel  of  Matthew tells  a  story  about  Jesus  passing  through
Samaria on his way to Jerusalem:
9:51 And it came to pass, when the time was come that he should be
received up, he steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem, 9:52
And sent messengers before his face: and they went, and entered
into a village of the Samaritans, to make ready for him. 9:53 And
they did not receive him, because his face was as though he would
go to Jerusalem. 9:54 And when his disciples James and John saw
this, they said, Lord, wilt thou that we command fire to come down
from heaven, and consume them, even as Elias did?  9:55 But he
turned, and rebuked them, and said, Ye know not what manner of
spirit ye are of. 9:56 For the Son of man is not come to destroy
men's lives, but to save them. And they went to another village.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The Gospel of Luke tells of an encounter between Jesus and a Samaritan
man, as he journeyed from the Galilee to Jerusalem, indicating that, unlike
the  Jewish  populace  of  his  time,  Jesus  had  no  prejudice  towards
Samaritans, and praised a righteous Samaritan over an ungrateful and
unrighteous Jew:
17:11 And it came to pass, as he went to Jerusalem, that he passed
through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. 17:12 And as he entered
into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers, which
stood afar off: 17:13 And they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus,
Master, have mercy on us. 17:14 And when he saw them, he said unto
them,  Go shew yourselves unto the priests. And it came to pass,
that, as they went, they were cleansed. 17:15 And one of them, when
he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice
glorified God, 17:16 And fell down on his face at his feet, giving him
thanks: and he was a Samaritan. 17:17 And Jesus answering said,
Were there not ten cleansed? but where are the nine? 17:18 There are
not found that returned to give glory to God, save this stranger.
17:19 And he said unto him, Arise, go thy way: thy faith hath made
thee whole.
When he was teaching one day, according to the Gospel of Luke, he was
challenged to describe the meaning of “neighbor”  in the context of the
commandment to “love…thy neighbor as thyself”:
10:25 And, behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him,
saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? 10:26 He said
unto him, What is written in the law? how readest thou? 10:27 And he
answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart,
and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind;
and thy neighbour as thyself. 10:28 And he said unto him, Thou hast
answered right: this do, and thou shalt live. 10:29 But he, willing to
justify himself, said unto Jesus,  And who is my neighbour?  10:30
And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem

JESUS † The Complete Biography
to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment,
and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. 10:31 And by
chance there came down a certain priest that way: and when he saw
him, he passed by on the other side. 10:32 And likewise a Levite,
when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by
on the other side. 10:33 But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed,
came where he was: and when he saw him, he had compassion on
him, 10:34 And went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil
and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn,
and took care of him. 10:35 And on the morrow when he departed,
he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto
him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I
come  again,  I  will  repay  thee.  10:36  Which  now  of  these  three,
thinkest thou, was neighbour unto him that fell among the thieves?
10:37 And he said, He that shewed mercy on him. Then said Jesus
unto him, Go, and do thou likewise.
In the Gospel of John we find Jesus accused of being a Samaritan, and of
being demonic:
8:48 Then answered the Jews, and said unto him, Say we not well
that thou art a Samaritan, and hast a devil? 8:49 Jesus answered, I
have not a devil; but I honour my Father, and ye do dishonour me.
Jesus returns to Jerusalem for Passover
The Gospel of Matthew speaks of the return to Jerusalem to celebrate the
festival of Passover:
20:17 And Jesus going up to Jerusalem took the twelve disciples
apart in the way, and said unto them, 20:18  Behold, we go up to
Jerusalem; and the Son of man shall be betrayed unto the chief
priests and unto the scribes, and they shall condemn him to death,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
20:19 And shall deliver him to the Gentiles to mock, and to scourge,
and to crucify him: and the third day he shall rise again.  20:20 Then
came  to  him  the  mother  of  Zebedees  children  with  her  sons,
worshipping him, and desiring a certain thing of him.  20:21 And he
said unto her, What wilt thou? She saith unto him, Grant that these
my two sons may sit, the one on thy right hand, and the other on the
left, in thy kingdom.  20:22 But Jesus answered and said, Ye know
not what ye ask. Are ye able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of,
and to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? They
say unto him, We are able.  20:23 And he saith unto them, Ye shall
drink indeed of my cup, and be baptized with the baptism that I am
baptized with: but to sit on my right hand, and on my left, is not mine
to give, but it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared of my
Father.  20:24 And when the ten heard it, they were moved with
indignation against the two brethren.  20:25 But Jesus called them
unto him, and said, Ye know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise
dominion over them, and they that are great exercise authority
upon them.  20:26 But it shall not be so among you: but whosoever
will  be  great  among  you,  let  him  be  your  minister;  20:27  And
whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant: 20:28
Even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to
minister, and to give his life a ransom for many.  20:29 And as they
departed from Jericho, a great multitude followed him.  20:30 And,
behold, two blind men sitting by the way side, when they heard that
Jesus passed by, cried out, saying, Have mercy on us, O Lord, thou
son of David.  20:31 And the multitude rebuked them, because they
should hold their peace: but they cried the more, saying,  Have
mercy on us, O Lord, thou son of David.  20:32 And Jesus stood
still, and called them, and said, What will ye that I shall do unto you?
20:33 They say unto him,  Lord, that our eyes may be opened.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
20:34 So Jesus had compassion on them, and touched their eyes:
and immediately their eyes received sight, and they followed him.
The Gospel of Mark tells the same story:
10:32 And they were in the way going up to Jerusalem; and Jesus
went before them: and they were amazed; and as they followed,
they were afraid. And he took again the twelve, and began to tell
them what things should happen unto him, 10:33 Saying, Behold, we
go up to Jerusalem; and the Son of man shall be delivered unto the
chief priests, and unto the scribes; and they shall condemn him to
death, and shall deliver him to the Gentiles: 10:34 And they shall
mock him, and shall scourge him, and shall spit upon him, and shall
kill him: and the third day he shall rise again.  10:35 And James and
John, the sons of Zebedee, come unto him, saying,  Master, we
would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever we shall desire.
10:36 And he said unto them,  What would ye that I should do for
you? 10:37 They said unto him, Grant unto us that we may sit, one on
thy right hand, and the other on thy left hand, in thy glory.  10:38
But Jesus said unto them, Ye know not what ye ask: can ye drink of
the cup that I drink of? and be baptized with the baptism that I am
baptized with? 10:39 And they said unto him, We can. And Jesus said
unto them, Ye shall indeed drink of the cup that I drink of; and with
the baptism that I am baptized withal shall ye be baptized: 10:40 But
to sit on my right hand and on my left hand is not mine to give; but it
shall be given to them for whom it is prepared.  10:41 And when the
ten heard it, they began to be much displeased with James and
John.  10:42 But Jesus called them to him, and saith unto them, Ye
know  that  they  which  are  accounted  to  rule  over  the  Gentiles
exercise lordship over them; and their great ones exercise authority
upon them.  10:43 But so shall it not be among you: but whosoever
will  be  great  among  you,  shall  be  your  minister:  10:44  And

JESUS † The Complete Biography
whosoever of you will be the chiefest, shall be servant of all.  10:45
For even the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to
minister, and to give his life a ransom for many.  10:46 And they
came to Jericho: and as he went out of Jericho with his disciples and
a great number of people, blind Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat
by the highway side begging.  10:47 And when he heard that it was
Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out, and say, Jesus, thou son of
David, have mercy on me.  10:48 And many charged him that he
should hold his peace: but he cried the more a great deal, Thou son
of David, have mercy on me.  10:49 And Jesus stood still, and
commanded him to be called. And they call the blind man, saying
unto him, Be of good comfort, rise; he calleth thee.  10:50 And he,
casting away his garment, rose, and came to Jesus.  10:51 And Jesus
answered and said unto him, What wilt thou that I should do unto
thee? The blind man said unto him,  Lord, that I might receive my
sight.  10:52 And Jesus said unto him,  Go thy way; thy faith hath
made  thee  whole. And  immediately  he  received  his  sight,  and
followed Jesus in the way.
The Gospel of Luke likewise tells of this journey to Jerusalem:
18:31 Then he took unto him the twelve, and said unto them, Behold,
we  go  up  to  Jerusalem,  and  all  things  that  are  written  by  the
prophets concerning the Son of man shall be accomplished.  18:32
For he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles, and shall be mocked,
and  spitefully  entreated,  and  spitted  on:  18:33  And  they  shall
scourge him, and put him to death: and the third day he shall rise
again.  18:34 And they understood none of these things: and this
saying was hid from them, neither knew they the things which were
spoken.  18:35 And it came to pass, that as he was come nigh unto
Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the way side begging: 18:36 And
hearing the multitude pass by, he asked what it meant.  18:37 And

JESUS † The Complete Biography
they told him, that Jesus of Nazareth passeth by.  18:38 And he
cried, saying,  Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me.  18:39
And they which went before rebuked him, that he should hold his
peace: but he cried so much the more,  Thou son of David, have
mercy on me.  18:40 And Jesus stood, and commanded him to be
brought unto him: and when he was come near, he asked him, 18:41
Saying, What wilt thou that I shall do unto thee? And he said, Lord,
that I may receive my sight.  18:42 And Jesus said unto him, Receive
thy sight: thy faith hath saved thee.  18:43 And immediately he
received his sight, and followed him, glorifying God: and all the
people, when they saw it, gave praise unto God.  19:1 And Jesus
entered and passed through Jericho. 19:2 And, behold, there was a
man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among the publicans,
and he was rich.  19:3 And he sought to see Jesus who he was; and
could not for the press, because he was little of stature.  19:4 And
he ran before, and climbed up into a sycomore tree to see him: for
he was to pass that way.  19:5 And when Jesus came to the place, he
looked up, and saw him, and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste,
and come down; for to day I must abide at thy house.  19:6 And he
made haste, and came down, and received him joyfully.  19:7 And
when they saw it, they all murmured, saying, That he was gone to be
guest with a man that is a sinner.  19:8 And Zacchaeus stood, and
said unto the Lord: Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the
poor;  and  if  I  have  taken  any  thing  from  any  man  by  false
accusation, I restore him fourfold.  19:9 And Jesus said unto him,
This day is salvation come to this house, forsomuch as he also is a
son of Abraham.  19:10 For the Son of man is come to seek and to
save that which was lost.  19:11 And as they heard these things, he
added and spake a parable, because he was nigh to Jerusalem, and
because they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately
appear.  19:12 He said therefore, A certain nobleman went into a far

JESUS † The Complete Biography
country to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return.  19:13 And he
called his ten servants, and delivered them ten pounds, and said
unto them, Occupy till I come. 19:14 But his citizens hated him, and
sent a message after him, saying, We will not have this man to reign
over us.  19:15 And it came to pass, that when he was returned,
having received the kingdom, then he commanded these servants to
be called unto him, to whom he had given the money, that he might
know how much every man had gained by trading.  19:16 Then came
the first, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained ten pounds.  19:17 And
he said unto him, Well, thou good servant: because thou hast been
faithful in a very little, have thou authority over ten cities.  19:18 And
the second came, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained five pounds.
19:19 And he said likewise to him, Be thou also over five cities.  19:20
And another came, saying, Lord, behold, here is thy pound, which I
have kept laid up in a napkin: 19:21 For I feared thee, because thou
art an austere man: thou takest up that thou layedst not down, and
reapest that thou didst not sow.  19:22 And he saith unto him, Out
of thine own mouth will I judge thee, thou wicked servant. Thou
knewest that I was an austere man, taking up that I laid not down,
and reaping that I did not sow: 19:23 Wherefore then gavest not thou
my money into the bank, that at my coming I might have required
mine own with usury? 19:24 And he said unto them that stood by,
Take from him the pound, and give it to him that hath ten pounds.
19:25 (And they said unto him, Lord, he hath ten pounds.) 19:26 For I
say unto you, That unto every one which hath shall be given; and
from him that hath not, even that he hath shall be taken away from
him.  19:27 But those mine enemies, which would not that I should
reign over them, bring hither, and slay them before me.  19:28 And
when  he  had  thus  spoken,  he  went  before,  ascending  up  to
Jerusalem.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The Gospel of John refers to this same time, and the appearance of Jersus
in Jerusalem, but with virtually no details found in the synoptic Gospels:
11:55 And the Jews' passover was nigh at hand: and many went
out of the country up to Jerusalem before the passover, to
purify  themselves.  11:56  Then  sought  they  for  Jesus,  and
spake among themselves, as they stood in the temple,  What
think ye, that he will not come to the feast? 11:57 Now both the
chief priests and the Pharisees had given a commandment,
that, if any man knew where he were, he should shew it, that
they might take him.
The synoptic Gospels report an event which most probably happened prior
to the entry of Jesus into Jerusalem at the time of this Passover.  So
triumphant was this arrival that it is unlikely that it would have occurred
simultaneously…the principal character would likely have lost his nerve if
he had personally witnessed the tumultuous enthusiasm of the masses.  It
was the defection of Judas Iscariot, reported in the synoptic Gospels, and
placed by Matthew and Mark immediately after this supper in Bethany:
26:14 Then one of the twelve, called Judas Iscariot, went unto
the chief priests, 26:15 And said unto them, What will ye give
me, and I will deliver him unto you? And they covenanted with
him for thirty pieces of silver.  26:16 And from that time he
sought opportunity to betray him. (Matthew)
14:10 And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went unto the
chief priests, to betray him unto them. 14:11 And when they
heard it, they were glad, and promised to give him money. And
he sought how he might conveniently betray him.  (Mark)
22:3 Then entered Satan into Judas surnamed Iscariot, being
of the number of the twelve. 22:4 And he went his way, and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
communed with the chief priests and captains, how he might
betray  him  unto  them.  22:5  And  they  were  glad,  and
covenanted to give him money. 22:6 And he promised, and
sought opportunity to betray him unto them in the absence of
the multitude. (Luke)
The Gospel of John does not report this secret and traitorous transaction,
but in its telling of the supper story (which follows shortly) it records Judas
Iscariot  being  concerned  about  the  money,  the  financial  value  of  the
ointment.  Furthermore, it states “This he said, not that he cared for the
poor; but because he was a thief, and had the bag, and bare what was put
therein.”  By then, plainly, Judas Iscariot had already received the bag of
money from the chief priests in advance of his betrayal of Jesus.  This story
recalls the teaching of Jesus that “Ye cannot serve God and mammon”
(Matthew 6:24; Luke 16:13).    The Greek term translated as mammon is
mamOna  and this is derived from the Aramaic  mAmOnA.  Both words
mean “wealth”, in the sense of “material riches”.  The synoptic Gospel
accounts indicate that Judas Iscariot agreed to deliver Jesus to the chief
priests  when  they  promised  “to  give  him  money”  and  the  Gospel  of
Matthew even specifies that the price was “thirty pieces of silver”.  The
clear message of the Gospels is that Judas Iscariot valued money over
Jesus, and that he could not be a true believer in Jesus or in God because
“Ye cannot serve God and mammon.”  This uncompromising choice of
spiritual values over material values, and obedience to the voice of God
and detachment from the lure of material riches is one of the hallmarks of
Jesus’ message.  It was embodied in the lifestyle his precursor adopted, he
himself  adopted,  and  his  disciples  likewise  embraced—fewness  and
simplicity  of  possessions,  chastity  and  (for  many)  celibacy,  and
abandonment of worldly ambitions and pursuits.  He told his followers to
“let the dead bury their dead” (Matthew 8:22;  Luke 9:60), and “go and sell
that thou hast, and give to the poor” (Matthew 19:20; Mark 10:21).  He
expected  total  commitment  to  the  divine  from  his  followers,  but  still
praised the less drastic obedience to divine principle of others, as depicted
in this story recorded in the Gospel of Luke:
19:2 And, behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the
chief among the publicans, and he was rich. 19:3 And he sought to
see Jesus who he was; and could not for the press, because he was
little of stature. 19:4 And he ran before, and climbed up into a
sycamore tree to see him: for he was to pass that way. 19:5 And

JESUS † The Complete Biography
when Jesus came to the place, he looked up, and saw him, and said
unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste, and come down; for to day I must
abide at thy house. 19:6 And he made haste, and came down, and
received him joyfully. 19:7 And when they saw it, they all murmured,
saying, That he was gone to be guest with a man that is a sinner. 19:8
And Zacchaeus stood, and said unto the Lord: Behold, Lord, the
half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have taken any thing
from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. 19:9 And
Jesus said unto him,  This day is salvation come to this house,
forsomuch as he also is a son of Abraham. 19:10 For the Son of man
is come to seek and to save that which was lost.
After his respite in the wilderness and prior to his triumphal entry into
Jerusalem, in which he was glorified by the people and by a visitation of
the angel of the Lord, Jesus again visited Bethany and the Gospels of
Matthew and Mark tell the tale of the fig tree in that location:
21:17 And he left them, and went out of the city into Bethany; and he
lodged there. 21:18 Now in the morning as he returned into the city,
he hungered. 21:19 And when he saw a fig tree in the way, he came to
it, and found nothing thereon, but leaves only, and said unto it, Let
no fruit grow on thee henceforward for ever. And presently the fig
tree  withered  away.  21:20  And  when  the  disciples  saw  it,  they
marvelled, saying, How soon is the fig tree withered away! 21:21 Jesus
answered and said unto them, Verily I say unto you, If ye have faith,
and doubt not, ye shall not only do this which is done to the fig tree,
but also if ye shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be
thou  cast  into  the  sea;  it  shall  be  done.  21:22  And  all  things,
whatsoever  ye  shall  ask  in  prayer,  believing,  ye  shall  receive.
(Matthew)
11:11 And Jesus entered into Jerusalem, and into the temple: and
when he had looked round about upon all things, and now the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
eventide was come, he went out unto Bethany with the twelve. 11:12
And on the morrow, when they were come from Bethany, he was
hungry: 11:13 And seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came, if
haply he might find any thing thereon: and when he came to it, he
found nothing but leaves; for the time of figs was not yet. 11:14 And
Jesus answered and said unto it, No man eat fruit of thee hereafter
for ever. And his disciples heard it. (Mark)
This may have been related to the parable of the fig tree that is reported in
all three synoptic Gospels:
24:32 Now learn a parable of the fig tree; When his branch is yet
tender, and putteth forth leaves, ye know that summer is nigh: 24:33
So likewise ye, when ye shall see all these things, know that it is
near, even at the doors. (Matthew)
13:28 Now learn a parable of the fig tree; When her branch is yet
tender, and putteth forth leaves, ye know that summer is near: 13:29
So ye in like manner, when ye shall see these things come to pass,
know that it is nigh, even at the doors. (Mark)
21:29 And he spake to them a parable; Behold the fig tree, and all
the trees; 21:30 When they now shoot forth, ye see and know of
your own selves that summer is now nigh at hand. (Luke)
Jesus told another parable of the fig tree according to the  Gospel of
Luke:
13:6 He spake also this parable; A certain man had a fig tree planted
in his vineyard; and he came and sought fruit thereon, and found
none. 13:7 Then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard, Behold,
these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none:
cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground? 13:8 And he answering

JESUS † The Complete Biography
said unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it,
and dung it: 13:9 And if it bear fruit, well: and if not, then after that
thou shalt cut it down.
Jesus visited his friends in Bethany once more.  It was to be their last
supper together:
12:1 Then Jesus six days before the passover came to Bethany,
where Lazarus was, which had been dead, whom he raised from the
dead. 12:2 There they made him a supper; and Martha served: but
Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him. 12:3 Then
took Mary a pound of ointment of spikenard, very costly, and
anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair: and the
house was filled with the odour of the ointment. 12:4 Then saith one
of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, which should betray
him, 12:5 Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence,
and given to the poor? 12:6 This he said, not that he cared for the
poor; but because he was a thief, and had the bag, and bare what
was put therein. 12:7 Then said Jesus, Let her alone: against the day
of my burying hath she kept this.  12:8 For the poor always ye have
with you; but me ye have not always.
The  Gospel of Matthew tells this story as well, but he says that this
dinner took place in the house of Simon the leper (Matthew 26:6; Mark
14:3) or Simon the Pharisee (Luke 7:39-40), and there is no mention of
Martha, Mary or Lazarus.   In the Gospel of John, the owner of the house
in which the three siblings sup with Jesus is not identified.  Could it be that
Simon the leper was father of these three?   In that case, the Hebrew name
of Lazarus would have been Eleazar ben Shim’on, a priestly name to be
sure, and given the proximity of Bethany to Jerusalem, he may well have
been in service at the Temple.  Of course, there was another Eleazar ben
Shim’on, about whom we know considerably more.223  Even as the synoptic
Gospels make no mention of Lazarus, neither do the synoptic Gospels
name the woman who anoints Jesus with ointment:
26:6 Now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the
leper, 26:7 There came unto him a woman having an alabaster box of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
very precious ointment, and poured it on his head, as he sat at
meat.  26:8  But  when  his  disciples  saw  it,  they  had  indignation,
saying, To what purpose is this waste? 26:9 For this ointment might
have been sold for much, and given to the poor. 26:10 When Jesus
understood it, he said unto them, Why trouble ye the woman? for
she hath wrought a good work upon me. 26:11 For ye have the poor
always with you; but me ye have not always. 26:12 For in that she
hath poured this ointment on my body, she did it for my burial. 26:13
Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in
the whole world, there shall also this, that this woman hath done, be
told for a memorial of her.
The  Gospel of Mark records the same version of the story as that of
Matthew, also without naming the woman who anointed Jesus:
14:3 And being in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as he sat
at meat, there came a woman having an alabaster box of ointment of
spikenard very precious; and she brake the box, and poured it on
his head. 14:4 And there were some that had indignation within
themselves, and said, Why was this waste of the ointment made? 14:5
For it might have been sold for more than three hundred pence, and
have been given to the poor. And they murmured against her. 14:6
And  Jesus  said,  Let  her  alone;  why  trouble  ye  her?  she  hath
wrought a good work on me. 14:7 For ye have the poor with you
always, and whensoever ye will ye may do them good: but me ye
have not always. 14:8 She hath done what she could: she is come
aforehand to anoint my body to the burying. 14:9 Verily I say unto
you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached throughout the
whole world, this also that she hath done shall be spoken of for a
memorial of her.
The Gospel of Luke tells the same story, and calls the owner of the house
Simon, but identifies him not as a leper but as a Pharisee:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
7:36  And one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him.
And  he  went  into  the  Pharisee's  house,  and  sat  down  to  meat.
7:37  And, behold, a woman in the city, which was a sinner, when she
knew that  Jesus sat  at  meat  in  the  Pharisee's  house,  brought  an
alabaster box of ointment, 7:38  And stood at his feet behind him
weeping, and began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them with
the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the
ointment. 7:39  Now when the Pharisee which had bidden him saw it, he
spake within himself, saying,  This man, if he were a prophet, would
have known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him:
for she is a sinner. 7:40  And Jesus answering said unto him, Simon, I
have  somewhat  to  say  unto  thee.  And  he  saith,  Master,  say  on.
7:41  There was a certain creditor which had two debtors: the one owed
five  hundred  pence, and the  other fifty. 7:42  And when they had
nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me therefore, which
of them will love him most? 7:43  Simon answered and said, I suppose
that he, to whom he forgave most. And he said unto him, Thou hast
rightly judged. 7:44  And he turned to the woman, and said unto Simon,
Seest thou this woman? I entered into thine house, thou gavest me no
water for my feet: but she hath washed my feet with tears, and wiped
them with the hairs of her head. 7:45  Thou gavest me no kiss: but this
woman  since the  time  I came  in hath not  ceased  to  kiss my feet.
7:46  My head with oil thou didst not anoint: but this woman hath
anointed my feet with ointment. 7:47  Wherefore I say unto thee, Her
sins, which are many, are forgiven; for she loved much: but to whom
little is forgiven, the same loveth little. 7:48  And he said unto her, Thy
sins are forgiven. 7:49  And they that sat at meat with him began to say
within themselves, Who is this that forgiveth sins also? 7:50  And he said
to the woman, Thy faith hath saved thee; go in peace.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The Gospel of Luke tells a similar story about the family of Mary and
Martha, but makes no mention of Lazarus or Simon, only of the special
attentiveness of Mary:
10:38 Now it came to pass, as they went, that he entered into a
certain village: and a certain woman named Martha received him into
her house. 10:39 And she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at
Jesus' feet, and heard his word. 10:40 But Martha was cumbered
about much serving, and came to him, and said, Lord, dost thou not
care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? bid her therefore
that she help me. 10:41 And Jesus answered and said unto her,
Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things:
10:42 But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good
part, which shall not be taken away from her.
The Gospel of John then turns back to the social atmosphere that was
present leading up to this Passover in Jerusalem:
12:9 Much people of the Jews therefore knew that he was there: and
they came not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might see Lazarus
also, whom he had raised from the dead. 12:10 But the chief priests
consulted that they might put Lazarus also to death; 12:11 Because

JESUS † The Complete Biography
that by reason of him many of the Jews went away, and believed on
Jesus.
This is the last mention of Lazarus by name in the Gospel of John, which
is the only Gospel in which he appears.  We may well wonder if Lazarus
would have remained in residence with his sisters Mary and Martha in
Bethany once he was informed that the “chief priests” had “consulted that
they might put” him “also to death”, that is along with Jesus, whom they
were determined to capture and silence.  Did Lazarus go “underground”?
We shall see.
12:12 On the next day much people that were come to the feast,
when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, 12:13 Took
branches of palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried,
Hosanna: Blessed is the King of Israel that cometh in the name of
the Lord. 12:14 And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat
thereon; as it is written, 12:15 Fear not, daughter of Sion: behold, thy
King cometh, sitting on an ass's colt. 12:16 These things understood
not his disciples at the first: but when Jesus was glorified, then
remembered they that these things were written of him, and that
they had done these things unto him. 12:17 The people therefore
that was with him when he called Lazarus out of his grave, and
raised him from the dead, bare record. 12:18 For this cause the
people also met him, for that they heard that he had done this
miracle.
Lazarus was not an unknown after his resurrection from the grave…he had
become a celebrity, and because of the success of this miracle, Jesus had
become even more of a celebrity, and of a threat to the religious authorities
of Jerusale.
12:19 The Pharisees therefore said among themselves,  Perceive ye
how ye prevail nothing? behold, the world is gone after him. 12:20
And there were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship
at the feast: 12:21 The same came therefore to Philip, which was of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Bethsaida of Galilee, and desired him, saying,  Sir, we would see
Jesus.  12:22 Philip cometh and telleth Andrew: and again Andrew
and Philip tell Jesus.
The Gospel of Matthew tells this same story, of the triumphant entry of
Jesus into Jerusalem:
21:1 And when they drew nigh unto Jerusalem, and were come to
Bethphage, unto the mount of Olives, then sent Jesus two disciples,
21:2 Saying unto them,  Go into the village over against you, and
straightway ye shall find an ass tied, and a colt with her: loose them,
and bring them unto me. 21:3 And if any man say ought unto you, ye
shall say, The Lord hath need of them; and straightway he will send
them. 21:4 All this was done, that it might be fulfilled which was
spoken by the prophet, saying, 21:5 Tell ye the daughter of Sion,
Behold, thy King cometh unto thee, meek, and sitting upon an ass,
and a colt the foal of an ass. 21:6 And the disciples went, and did as
Jesus commanded them, 21:7 And brought the ass, and the colt, and
put on them their clothes, and they set him thereon. 21:8 And a very
great multitude spread their garments in the way; others cut down
branches from the trees, and strawed them in the way. 21:9 And the
multitudes  that  went  before,  and  that  followed,  cried,  saying,
Hosanna to the son of David: Blessed is he that cometh in the name
of the Lord; Hosanna in the highest. 21:10 And when he was come
into Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this? 21:11 And
the multitude said, This is Jesus the prophet of Nazareth of Galilee.
The  Gospel  of  Mark tells  the  story  with  all  of  the  same  details  as
Matthew:
11:1 And when they came nigh to Jerusalem, unto Bethphage and
Bethany,  at  the  mount  of  Olives,  he  sendeth  forth  two  of  his
disciples, 11:2 And saith unto them, Go your way into the village over

JESUS † The Complete Biography
against you: and as soon as ye be entered into it, ye shall find a colt
tied, whereon never man sat; loose him, and bring him. 11:3 And if any
man say unto you, Why do ye this? say ye that the Lord hath need
of him; and straightway he will send him hither. 11:4 And they went
their way, and found the colt tied by the door without in a place
where two ways met; and they loose him. 11:5 And certain of them
that stood there said unto them, What do ye, loosing the colt? 11:6
And they said unto them even as Jesus had commanded: and they
let them go. 11:7 And they brought the colt to Jesus, and cast their
garments on him; and he sat upon him. 11:8 And many spread their
garments in the way: and others cut down branches off the trees,
and strawed them in the way. 11:9 And they that went before, and
they  that  followed,  cried,  saying,  Hosanna;  Blessed  is  he  that
cometh in the name of the Lord: 11:10 Blessed be the kingdom of our
father David, that cometh in the name of the Lord: Hosanna in the
highest.
The Gospel of Luke likewise conveys all of these details:
19:29 And it came to pass, when he was come nigh to Bethphage and
Bethany, at the mount called the mount of Olives, he sent two of his
disciples, 19:30 Saying, Go ye into the village over against you; in the
which at your entering ye shall find a colt tied, whereon yet never
man sat: loose him, and bring him hither. 19:31 And if any man ask
you, Why do ye loose him? thus shall ye say unto him, Because the
Lord hath need of him.   19:32 And they that were sent went their
way, and found even as he had said unto them. 19:33 And as they
were loosing the colt, the owners thereof said unto them, Why loose
ye the colt? 19:34 And they said, The Lord hath need of him. 19:35
And they brought him to Jesus: and they cast their garments upon
the colt, and they set Jesus thereon. 19:36 And as he went, they
spread their clothes in the way. 19:37 And when he was come nigh,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
even now at the descent of the mount of Olives, the whole multitude
of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice
for all the mighty works that they had seen; 19:38 Saying, Blessed be
the King that cometh in the name of the Lord: peace in heaven, and
glory in the highest.
Once in the holy city on this fateful Passover, and the disciples have
gathered together, according to the Gospel of John and not found in the
synoptic Gospels, Jesus had another visitation from an angel:
12:23 And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour is come, that the
Son of man should be glorified. 12:24 Verily, verily, I say unto you,
Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth
alone: but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit.  12:25 He that loveth
his life shall lose it; and he that hateth his life in this world shall keep
it unto life eternal. 12:26 If any man serve me, let him follow me; and
where I am, there shall also my servant be: if any man serve me, him
will my Father honour. 12:27 Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I
say? Father, save me from this hour: but for this cause came I unto
this hour. 12:28 Father, glorify thy name. Then came there a voice
from heaven, saying, I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again.
12:29 The people therefore, that stood by, and heard it, said that it
thundered:  others  said,  An  angel  spake  to  him. 12:30  Jesus
answered and said, This voice came not because of me, but for your
sakes. 12:31 Now is the judgment of this world: now shall the prince of
this world be cast out. 12:32 And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will
draw all men unto me. 12:33 This he said, signifying what death he
should die.
This angelic visitation has many special characteristics—whereas the voice
from heaven that spoke during the baptism of Jesus was heard only by
John the Baptist and a few others at the time; and the voice from heaven
that spoke on the mountain was witnessed by Peter, James and his brother
John; this voice from heaven is witnessed by “the people” in Jerusalem

JESUS † The Complete Biography
during the Passover festival, and the sound of this voice is described by
some saying “it thundered” while others said “an angel spake to him”.  The
people who witnessed this extraordinary spectacle were evidently curious,
and Jesus obliges their curiosity by explaining that this voice from heaven
spoke for the sake of the people, indicating that the Day of Judgment had
arrived, that Satan, the prince of this world would now be cast out, that he
wold be lifted up to the heavens from earth, and that he would “draw all
men unto me.”  These are stupendous statements, each one of them, and
they indicate that the “judgment” and “resurrection” are not future events,
but were fulfilled at that very time, when Jesus was in Jerusalem, two
millennia ago.  Jesus continues to answer their queries:
12:34 The people answered him, We have heard out of the law that
Christ abideth for ever: and how sayest thou, The Son of man must
be lifted up? who is this Son of man?  12:35 Then Jesus said unto
them, Yet a little while is the light with you. Walk while ye have the
light, lest darkness come upon you: for he that walketh in darkness
knoweth not whither he goeth. 12:36 While ye have light, believe in
the light, that ye may be the children of light. These things spake
Jesus, and departed, and did hide himself from them.
Instead of believing in his divine appointment, “the people” did not believe
in him, and so he left them and sought solace apart from them:
12:37 But though he had done so many miracles before them, yet
they  believed  not  on  him:  12:38  That  the  saying  of  Esaias  the
prophet might be fulfilled, which he spake, Lord, who hath believed
our report? and to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed?
12:39 Therefore they could not believe, because that Esaias said
again, 12:40 He hath blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart;
that they should not see with their eyes, nor understand with their
heart, and be converted, and I should heal them. 12:41 These things
said Esaias, when he saw his glory, and spake of him.
What is remarkable is that the common folk did not believe him at this
time but that there were nevertheless leaders of the people, most likely
Sadducees, Essenes or Herodians, or perhaps some of each, who believed
that he was divinely elected:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
12:42 Nevertheless among the chief rulers also many believed on him;
but because of the Pharisees they did not confess him, lest they
should be put out of the synagogue: 12:43 For they loved the praise
of men more than the praise of God.
The deep sorrow, the greatest sorrow of the world is the sorrow of the Son
of man, the prophet of God who knows what mankind’s crying need is, and
sees that mankind rejects the only means whereby that need may be met:
12:44 Jesus cried and said, He that believeth on me, believeth not
on me, but on him that sent me.  12:45 And he that seeth me seeth
him  that  sent  me.  12:46  I  am  come  a  light  into  the  world,  that
whosoever believeth on me should not abide in darkness. 12:47 And
if any man hear my words, and believe not, I judge him not: for I came
not to judge the world, but to save the world. 12:48 He that rejecteth
me, and receiveth not my words, hath one that judgeth him: the word
that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day. 12:49
For I have not spoken of myself; but the Father which sent me, he
gave me a commandment, what I should say, and what I should
speak. 12:50 And I know that his commandment is life everlasting:
whatsoever I speak therefore, even as the Father said unto me, so I
speak.
The Gospel of Mark reports that immediately after his triumphal entry
into Jerusalem, Jesus immediately visited the Temple, and that he then
returned to Bethany with his disciples:
11:11 And Jesus entered into Jerusalem, and into the temple: and
when he had looked round about upon all things, and now the
eventide was come, he went out unto Bethany with the twelve.
This Gospel then says speaks of a first encounter between Jesus and a fig
tree the following morning, on his way back to Jerusalem:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
11:12 And on the morrow, when they were come from Bethany, he was
hungry: 11:13 And seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came, if
haply he might find any thing thereon: and when he came to it, he
found nothing but leaves; for the time of figs was not yet.  11:14 And
Jesus answered and said unto it, No man eat fruit of thee hereafter
for ever. And his disciples heard it.
This first encounter with the fig tree is not reported in the other Gospels.
The Gospel of Mark continues with an account of Jesus in the Temple,
expelling the merchants:
11:15 And they come to Jerusalem: and Jesus went into the temple,
and began to cast out them that sold and bought in the temple, and
overthrew the tables of the moneychangers, and the seats of them
that sold doves; 11:16 And would not suffer that any man should
carry any vessel through the temple.  11:17 And he taught, saying
unto them, Is it not written, My house shall be called of all nations
the house of prayer? but ye have made it a den of thieves.  11:18 And
the scribes and chief priests heard it, and sought how they might
destroy  him:  for  they  feared  him,  because  all  the  people  was
astonished at his doctrine.  11:19 And when even was come, he went
out of the city.
The Gospel of Matthew likewise reports a visit to the Temple, and the
forcible removal of commerce from its sacred environs:
21:12 And Jesus went into the temple of God, and cast out all them
that sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the
moneychangers, and the seats of them that sold doves, 21:13 And
said unto them, It is written, My house shall be called the house of
prayer; but ye have made it a den of thieves.  21:14 And the blind and
the lame came to him in the temple; and he healed them.  21:15 And
when the chief priests and scribes saw the wonderful things that he
did, and the children crying in the temple, and saying, Hosanna to

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the son of David;  they were sore displeased, 21:16 And said unto
him, Hearest thou what these say? And Jesus saith unto them, Yea;
have ye never read, Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings thou
hast perfected praise? 21:17 And he left them, and went out of the
city into Bethany; and he lodged there.
The  Gospel of Luke reverses the order of the account, first reporting
Jesus’ conversation with the priests and scribes and then his visit to the
Temple and eviction of the merchants:
19:39 And some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto
him, Master, rebuke thy disciples.  19:40 And he answered and said
unto them,  I tell you that, if these should hold their peace, the
stones would immediately cry out.  19:41 And when he was come
near, he beheld the city, and wept over it, 19:42 Saying,  If thou
hadst known, even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which
belong unto thy peace! but now they are hid from thine eyes.  19:43
For the days shall come upon thee, that thine enemies shall cast a
trench about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee in on
every side, 19:44 And shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy
children within thee; and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon
another; because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation.  19:45
And he went into the temple, and began to cast out them that sold
therein, and them that bought; 19:46 Saying unto them, It is written,
My house is the house of prayer: but ye have made it a den of
thieves.
The next morning, Jesus has a second encounter with the fig tree, and he
tells a parable to his disciples, first in the Gospel of Matthew:
21:18 Now in the morning as he returned into the city, he hungered.
21:19 And when he saw a fig tree in the way, he came to it, and found
nothing thereon, but leaves only, and said unto it, Let no fruit grow

JESUS † The Complete Biography
on thee henceforward for ever. And presently the fig tree withered
away. 21:20 And when the disciples saw it, they marvelled, saying,
How soon is the fig tree withered away! 21:21 Jesus answered and
said unto them, Verily I say unto you, If ye have faith, and doubt
not, ye shall not only do this which is done to the fig tree, but also if
ye shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast
into the sea; it shall be done. 21:22 And all things, whatsoever ye
shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive.
Then, in the Gospel of Mark, he tells the same story, with more detail:
11:20 And in the morning, as they passed by, they saw the fig tree
dried up from the roots. 11:21 And Peter calling to remembrance saith
unto  him,  Master,  behold,  the  fig  tree  which  thou  cursedst  is
withered away.  11:22 And Jesus answering saith unto them,  Have
faith in God. 11:23 For verily I say unto you, That whosoever shall say
unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea;
and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that those things
which he saith shall come to pass; he shall have whatsoever he saith.
11:24 Therefore I say unto you, What things soever ye desire, when
ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them. 11:25
And when ye stand praying, forgive, if ye have ought against any:
that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your
trespasses. 11:26  But if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father
which is in heaven forgive your trespasses.
Jesus on prayer
To digress from our telling of the story, in this discourse Jesus refers to the
manner in which prayer should be offered, and in words strikingly similar
to his model prayer, in the Gospel of Matthew:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
6:9 After this manner therefore pray ye: Our Father which art in
heaven, Hallowed be thy name. 6:10 Thy kingdom come, Thy will be
done in earth, as it is in heaven. 6:11 Give us this day our daily bread.
6:12 And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors. 6:13 And
lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil: For thine is the
kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Amen. 6:14 For if
ye  forgive  men  their  trespasses,  your  heavenly  Father  will  also
forgive you: 6:15 But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither
will your Father forgive your trespasses.
And the same model in the Gospel of Luke:
11:2 And he said unto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father which art
in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be
done, as in heaven, so in earth. 11:3 Give us day by day our daily
bread. 11:4  And forgive us our sins; for we also forgive every one
that is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation; but deliver
us from evil.
Jesus speaks to multiple audiences in Jerusalem
The Gospel of Mark then speaks about the challenge made by the priests
and scribes and elders to Jesus’ authority, because he spoke as one with
authority, and they were accustomed to being in charge and believed it to
be their exclusive right, and he follows this with a detailed acount of a day
in the Temple with Jesus teaching different groups of Jews:
1)chief priests, scribes, elders:
11:27 And they come again to Jerusalem: and as he was walking in the
temple, there come to him the chief priests, and the scribes, and the
elders, 11:28 And say unto him, By what authority doest thou these
things? and who gave thee this authority to do these things? 11:29
And Jesus answered and said unto them, I will also ask of you one
question, and answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do
these things. 11:30 The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
men? answer me. 11:31 And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If
we shall say, From heaven; he will say, Why then did ye not believe
him? 11:32 But if we shall say, Of men; they feared the people: for all
men counted John, that he was a prophet indeed. 11:33 And they
answered and said unto Jesus, We cannot tell. And Jesus answering
saith unto them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these
things. 12:1 And he began to speak unto them by parables. A certain
man planted a vineyard, and set an hedge about it, and digged a
place  for  the  winefat,  and  built  a  tower,  and  let  it  out  to
husbandmen, and went into a far country.  12:2 And at the season he
sent to the husbandmen a servant, that he might receive from the
husbandmen of the fruit of the vineyard. 12:3 And they caught him,
and beat him, and sent him away empty. 12:4 And again he sent unto
them another servant; and at him they cast stones, and wounded
him in the head, and sent him away shamefully handled. 12:5 And
again he sent another; and him they killed, and many others; beating
some,  and  killing  some.  12:6  Having  yet  therefore  one  son,  his
wellbeloved,  he  sent  him  also  last  unto  them,  saying,  They  will
reverence  my  son.  12:7  But  those  husbandmen  said  among
themselves, This is the heir; come, let us kill him, and the inheritance
shall be our's. 12:8 And they took him, and killed him, and cast him
out  of  the  vineyard.  12:9  What  shall  therefore  the  lord  of  the
vineyard do? he will come and destroy the husbandmen, and will give
the vineyard unto others. 12:10 And have ye not read this scripture;
The stone which the builders rejected is become the head of the
corner: 12:11 This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvellous in our
eyes?  12:12 And they sought to lay hold on him, but feared the
people: for they knew that he had spoken the parable against them:
and they left him, and went their way.
2)Parisees, Herodians:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
12:13 And they send unto him certain of the Pharisees and of the
Herodians, to catch him in his words. 12:14 And when they were
come, they say unto him, Master, we know that thou art true, and
carest for no man: for thou regardest not the person of men, but
teachest the way of God in truth: Is it lawful to give tribute to
Caesar, or not? 12:15 Shall we give, or shall we not give? But he,
knowing their hypocrisy, said unto them, Why tempt ye me? bring me
a penny, that I may see it. 12:16 And they brought it. And he saith
unto them, Whose is this image and superscription? And they said
unto  him,  Caesar's. 12:17  And  Jesus  answering  said  unto  them,
Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the
things that are God's. And they marvelled at him.
3) Sadducees:
12:18 Then come unto him the Sadducees, which say there is no
resurrection; and they asked him, saying, 12:19 Master, Moses wrote
unto us, If a man's brother die, and leave his wife behind him, and
leave no children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise up
seed unto his brother. 12:20 Now there were seven brethren: and the
first took a wife, and dying left no seed. 12:21 And the second took
her, and died, neither left he any seed: and the third likewise. 12:22
And the seven had her, and left no seed: last of all the woman died
also. 12:23 In the resurrection therefore, when they shall rise, whose
wife shall she be of them? for the seven had her to wife. 12:24 And
Jesus answering said unto them, Do ye not therefore err, because
ye know not the scriptures, neither the power of God? 12:25 For
when they shall rise from the dead, they neither marry, nor are given
in marriage; but are as the angels which are in heaven. 12:26 And as
touching the dead, that they rise: have ye not read in the book of
Moses, how in the bush God spake unto him, saying, I am the God of
Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? 12:27 He is

JESUS † The Complete Biography
not the God of the dead, but the God of the living: ye therefore do
greatly err.
4) Scribes:
12:28 And one of the scribes came, and having heard them reasoning
together, and perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him,
Which is the first commandment of all? 12:29 And Jesus answered
him, The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel; The Lord
our God is one Lord: 12:30 And thou shalt love the Lord thy God
with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with
all thy strength: this is the first commandment. 12:31 And the second
is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. There
is none other commandment greater than these. 12:32 And the scribe
said unto him, Well, Master, thou hast said the truth: for there is one
God; and there is none other but he: 12:33 And to love him with all
the heart, and with all the understanding, and with all the soul, and
with all the strength, and to love his neighbour as himself, is more
than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. 12:34 And when Jesus
saw that he answered discreetly, he said unto him, Thou art not far
from the kingdom of God. And no man after that durst ask him any
question. 12:35 And Jesus answered and said, while he taught in the
temple, How say the scribes that Christ is the son of David? 12:36
For David himself said by the Holy Ghost224, The LORD said to my
Lord,  Sit  thou  on  my  right  hand,  till  I  make  thine  enemies  thy
footstool. 12:37  David  therefore  himself  calleth  him  Lord;  and
whence is he then his son?
5)The common people:
And the common people heard him gladly. 12:38 And he said unto
them in his doctrine, Beware of the scribes, which love to go in long
clothing, and love salutations in the marketplaces, 12:39 And the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
chief seats in the synagogues, and the uppermost rooms at feasts:
12:40 Which devour widows' houses, and for a pretence make long
prayers: these shall receive greater damnation. 12:41 And Jesus sat
over against the treasury, and beheld how the people cast money
into the treasury: and many that were rich cast in much. 12:42 And
there came a certain poor widow, and she threw in two mites, which
make a farthing. 12:43 And he called unto him his disciples, and saith
unto them,  Verily I say unto you, That this poor widow hath cast
more in, than all they which have cast into the treasury: 12:44 For all
they did cast in of their abundance; but she of her want did cast in
all that she had, even all her living.
The Gospel of Matthew reports these same discourses in even greater
detail, and, like the Gospel of Mark, Jesus speaks to several groups of
people:
1)chief priests and elders of the people:
21:23 And when he was come into the temple, the chief priests and
the elders of the people came unto him as he was teaching, and
said, By what authority doest thou these things? and who gave thee
this authority? 21:24 And Jesus answered and said unto them, I also
will ask you one thing, which if ye tell me, I in like wise will tell you by
what authority I do these things. 21:25 The baptism of John, whence
was it? from heaven, or of men? And they reasoned with themselves,
saying, If we shall say, From heaven; he will say unto us, Why did ye
not then believe him? 21:26 But if we shall say, Of men; we fear the
people; for all hold John as a prophet.  21:27 And they answered
Jesus, and said, We cannot tell. And he said unto them, Neither tell I
you by what authority I do these things. 21:28 But what think ye? A
certain man had two sons; and he came to the first, and said, Son,
go work to day in my vineyard. 21:29 He answered and said, I will not:
but afterward he repented, and went. 21:30 And he came to the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
second, and said likewise. And he answered and said, I go, sir: and
went not. 21:31 Whether of them twain did the will of his father? They
say unto him, The first. Jesus saith unto them, Verily I say unto you,
That the publicans and the harlots go into the kingdom of God
before  you.  21:32  For  John  came  unto  you  in  the  way  of
righteousness, and ye believed him not: but the publicans and the
harlots believed him: and ye, when ye had seen it, repented not
afterward, that ye might believe him. 21:33 Hear another parable:
There was a certain householder, which planted a vineyard, and
hedged it round about, and digged a winepress in it, and built a
tower, and let it out to husbandmen, and went into a far country:
21:34 And when the time of the fruit drew near, he sent his servants
to the husbandmen, that they might receive the fruits of it. 21:35 And
the  husbandmen  took  his  servants,  and  beat  one,  and  killed
another, and stoned another. 21:36 Again, he sent other servants
more than the first: and they did unto them likewise. 21:37 But last of
all he sent unto them his son, saying, They will reverence my son.
21:38 But when  the  husbandmen  saw the  son, they said among
themselves, This is the heir; come, let us kill him, and let us seize on
his inheritance. 21:39 And they caught him, and cast him out of the
vineyard,  and  slew  him.  21:40  When  the  lord  therefore  of  the
vineyard cometh, what will he do unto those husbandmen? 21:41
They say unto him, He will miserably destroy those wicked men, and
will let out his vineyard unto other husbandmen, which shall render
him the fruits in their seasons. 21:42 Jesus saith unto them, Did ye
never  read  in  the  scriptures225,  The  stone  which  the  builders
rejected, the same is become the head of the corner: this is the
Lord's doing, and it is marvellous in our eyes? 21:43 Therefore say I
unto you, The kingdom of God shall be taken from you, and given
to a nation bringing forth the fruits thereof. 21:44 And whosoever
shall fall on this stone shall be broken: but on whomsoever it shall

JESUS † The Complete Biography
fall, it will grind him to powder. 21:45 And when the chief priests and
Pharisees had heard his parables, they perceived that he spake of
them. 21:46 But when they sought to lay hands on him, they feared
the multitude, because they took him for a prophet. 22:1 And Jesus
answered and spake unto them again by parables, and said,  22:2
The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king, which made a
marriage for his son, 22:3 And sent forth his servants to call them
that were bidden to the wedding: and they would not come. 22:4
Again, he sent forth other servants, saying, Tell them which are
bidden, Behold, I have prepared my dinner: my oxen and my fatlings
are killed, and all things are ready: come unto the marriage. 22:5 But
they made light of it, and went their ways, one to his farm, another
to his merchandise: 22:6 And the remnant took his servants, and
entreated them spitefully, and slew them. 22:7 But when the king
heard thereof, he was wroth: and he sent forth his armies, and
destroyed those murderers, and burned up their city. 22:8 Then
saith he to his servants, The wedding is ready, but they which were
bidden were not worthy. 22:9 Go ye therefore into the highways,
and as many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage. 22:10 So those
servants went out into the highways, and gathered together all as
many as they found, both bad and good: and the wedding was
furnished with guests. 22:11 And when the king came in to see the
guests, he saw there a man which had not on a wedding garment:
22:12 And he saith unto him, Friend, how camest thou in hither not
having a wedding garment? And he was speechless. 22:13 Then said
the king to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, and take him
away, and cast him into outer darkness, there shall be weeping and
gnashing of teeth. 22:14 For many are called, but few are chosen.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
2)Pharisees and Heriodians:
22:15 Then went the Pharisees, and took counsel how they might
entangle him in his talk. 22:16 And they sent out unto him their
disciples with the Herodians, saying, Master, we know that thou art
true, and teachest the way of God in truth, neither carest thou for
any man: for thou regardest not the person of men. 22:17 Tell us
therefore,  What  thinkest  thou?  Is  it  lawful  to  give  tribute  unto
Caesar, or not? 22:18 But Jesus perceived their wickedness, and
said,  Why tempt ye me, ye hypocrites? 22:19 Shew me the tribute
money.  And they brought unto him a penny. 22:20 And he saith
unto them, Whose is this image and superscription? 22:21 They say
unto him, Caesar's. Then saith he unto them, Render therefore unto
Caesar the things which are Caesar's; and unto God the things that
are God's. 22:22 When they had heard these words, they marvelled,
and left him, and went their way.
3)Sadducees:
22:23 The same day came to him the Sadducees, which say that
there  is  no  resurrection,  and  asked  him,  22:24  Saying,  Master,
Moses said, If a man die, having no children, his brother shall marry
his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother. 22:25 Now there were
with us seven brethren: and the first, when he had married a wife,
deceased, and, having no issue, left his wife unto his brother: 22:26
Likewise the second also, and the third, unto the seventh. 22:27 And
last of all the woman died also. 22:28 Therefore in the resurrection
whose wife shall she be of the seven? for they all had her. 22:29
Jesus answered and said unto them,  Ye do err, not knowing the
scriptures, nor the power of God. 22:30 For in the resurrection they
neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels of
God in heaven. 22:31 But as touching the resurrection of the dead,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
have ye not read that which was spoken unto you by God, saying,
22:32 I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God
of Jacob? God is not the God of the dead, but of the living. 22:33
And when the multitude heard this, they were astonished at his
doctrine.
4) Pharisees:
22:34  But  when  the  Pharisees  had  heard  that  he  had  put  the
Sadducees to silence, they were gathered together. 22:35 Then one
of them, which was a lawyer, asked him a question, tempting him,
and saying,  22:36 Master, which is the great commandment in the
law? 22:37 Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God
with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. 22:38
This is the first and great commandment. 22:39 And the second is
like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. 22:40 On
these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. 22:41
While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them,
22:42 Saying, What think ye of Christ? whose son is he? They say
unto him,  The son of David. 22:43 He saith unto them,  How then
doth David in spirit call him Lord, saying226, 22:44 The LORD said
unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy
footstool?  22:45 If David then call him Lord, how is he his son?
22:46 And no man was able to answer him a word, neither durst any
man from that day forth ask him any more questions.
5)The multitude and his disciples:
23:1 Then spake Jesus to the multitude, and to his disciples, 23:2
Saying  The scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat: 23:3 All
therefore whatsoever they bid you observe, that observe and do;
but do not ye after their works: for they say, and do not. 23:4 For

JESUS † The Complete Biography
they bind heavy burdens and grievous to be borne, and lay them on
men's shoulders; but they themselves will not move them with one of
their fingers. 23:5 But all their works they do for to be seen of men:
they make broad their phylacteries, and enlarge the borders of
their garments, 23:6 And love the uppermost rooms at feasts, and
the  chief  seats  in  the  synagogues,  23:7  And  greetings  in  the
markets, and to be called of men, Rabbi, Rabbi. 23:8 But be not ye
called Rabbi: for one is your Master, even Christ; and all ye are
brethren. 23:9 And call no man your father upon the earth: for one
is your Father, which is in heaven. 23:10 Neither be ye called masters:
for one is your Master, even Christ. 23:11 But he that is greatest
among you shall be your servant. 23:12 And whosoever shall exalt
himself shall be abased; and he that shall humble himself shall be
exalted. 23:13 But woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites!
for ye shut up the kingdom of heaven against men: for ye neither go
in yourselves, neither suffer ye them that are entering to go in. 23:14
Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye devour
widows' houses, and for a pretence make long prayer: therefore ye
shall receive the greater damnation. 23:15 Woe unto you, scribes and
Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye compass sea and land to make one
proselyte, and when he is made, ye make him twofold more the child
of hell than yourselves. 23:16 Woe unto you, ye blind guides, which
say,  Whosoever  shall  swear  by  the  temple,  it  is  nothing;  but
whosoever shall swear by the gold of the temple, he is a debtor!
23:17 Ye fools and blind: for whether is greater, the gold, or the
temple that sanctifieth the gold? 23:18 And, Whosoever shall swear
by the altar, it is nothing; but whosoever sweareth by the gift that is
upon it, he is guilty. 23:19 Ye fools and blind: for whether is greater,
the gift, or the altar that sanctifieth the gift? 23:20 Whoso therefore
shall swear by the altar, sweareth by it, and by all things thereon.
23:21 And whoso shall swear by the temple, sweareth by it, and by

JESUS † The Complete Biography
him that dwelleth therein. 23:22 And he that shall swear by heaven,
sweareth by the throne of God, and by him that sitteth thereon.
23:23 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye pay
tithe of mint and anise and cummin, and have omitted the weightier
matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith: these ought ye to
have done, and not to leave the other undone. 23:24 Ye blind
guides, which strain at a gnat, and swallow a camel. 23:25 Woe unto
you,  scribes  and  Pharisees,  hypocrites!  for  ye  make  clean  the
outside of the cup and of the platter, but within they are full of
extortion and excess. 23:26 Thou blind Pharisee, cleanse first that
which is within the cup and platter, that the outside of them may be
clean also. 23:27 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites!
for  ye  are  like  unto  whited  sepulchres,  which  indeed  appear
beautiful outward, but are within full of dead men's bones, and of all
uncleanness. 23:28 Even so ye also outwardly appear righteous
unto men, but within ye are full of hypocrisy and iniquity. 23:29 Woe
unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because ye build the
tombs of the prophets, and garnish the sepulchres of the righteous,
23:30 And say, If we had been in the days of our fathers, we would
not have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets.
23:31 Wherefore ye be witnesses unto yourselves, that ye are the
children of them which killed the prophets. 23:32 Fill ye up then the
measure  of  your  fathers.   23:33  Ye  serpents,  ye  generation  of
vipers, how can ye escape the damnation of hell? 23:34 Wherefore,
behold, I send unto you prophets, and wise men, and scribes: and
some of them ye shall kill and crucify; and some of them shall ye
scourge in your synagogues, and persecute them from city to city:
23:35 That upon you may come all the righteous blood shed upon
the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel227 unto the blood of
Zacharias son of Barachias228, whom ye slew between the temple
and the altar. 23:36 Verily I say unto you, All these things shall come

JESUS † The Complete Biography
upon  this  generation.  23:37  O  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  thou  that
killest the prophets229, and stonest them which are sent unto thee,
how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a
hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not! 23:38
Behold, your house is left unto you desolate. 23:39 For I say unto
you, Ye shall not see me henceforth, till ye shall say, Blessed is he
that cometh in the name of the Lord.
The Gospel of Luke gives an account of the very same discourses in the
Temple, which will now be cited in full, with the various groups whom he
addressed identified:
19:47 And he taught daily in the temple. But the chief priests and
the scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy him, 19:48
And could not find what they might do: for all the people were very
attentive to hear him.
1)The people in the Temple, the chief priests and elders:
20:1 And it came to pass, that on one of those days, as he taught
the people in the temple, and preached the gospel, the chief priests
and the scribes came upon him with the elders, 20:2 And spake unto
him, saying, Tell us, by what authority doest thou these things? or
who is he that gave thee this authority? 20:3 And he answered and
said unto them, I will also ask you one thing; and answer me: 20:4
The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or of men? 20:5 And they
reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven; he
will say, Why then believed ye him not? 20:6 But and if we say, Of
men; all the people will stone us: for they be persuaded that John
was a prophet.  20:7 And they answered, that they could not tell
whence it was.  20:8 And Jesus said unto them, Neither tell I you by
what authority I do these things. 20:9 Then began he to speak to
the people this parable; A certain man planted a vineyard, and let it

JESUS † The Complete Biography
forth to husbandmen, and went into a far country for a long time.
20:10 And at the season he sent a servant to the husbandmen, that
they  should  give  him  of  the  fruit  of  the  vineyard:  but  the
husbandmen beat him, and sent him away empty. 20:11 And again he
sent another servant: and they beat him also, and entreated him
shamefully, and sent him away empty. 20:12 And again he sent a
third: and they wounded him also, and cast him out. 20:13 Then said
the lord of the vineyard, What shall I do? I will send my beloved son:
it may be they will reverence him when they see him. 20:14 But when
the husbandmen saw him, they reasoned among themselves, saying,
This is the heir: come, let us kill him, that the inheritance may be
ours. 20:15 So they cast him out of the vineyard, and killed him.
What therefore shall the lord of the vineyard do unto them? 20:16
He shall come and destroy these husbandmen, and shall give the
vineyard to others. And when they heard it, they said, God forbid.
20:17  And  he  beheld  them,  and  said,  What  is  this  then  that  is
written230,  The  stone  which  the  builders  rejected,  the  same  is
become the head of the corner? 20:18 Whosoever shall fall upon
that stone shall be broken; but on whomsoever it shall fall, it will
grind him to powder. 20:19 And the chief priests and the scribes the
same hour sought to lay hands on him; and they feared the people:
for they perceived that he had spoken this parable against them.
20:20 And they watched him, and sent forth spies, which should
feign themselves just men, that they might take hold of his words,
that so they might deliver him unto the power and authority of the
governor. 20:21 And they asked him, saying, Master, we know that
thou sayest and teachest rightly, neither acceptest thou the person
of any, but teachest the way of God truly: 20:22 Is it lawful for us to
give  tribute  unto  Caesar,  or  no?  20:23  But  he  perceived  their
craftiness, and said unto them, Why tempt ye me? 20:24 Shew me a
penny. Whose image and superscription hath it? They answered and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
said,  Caesar's.  20:25 And he said unto them,  Render therefore
unto Caesar the things which be Caesar's, and unto God the things
which be God's. 20:26 And they could not take hold of his words
before the people: and they marvelled at his answer, and held their
peace.
2)Sadducees:
20:27 Then came to him certain of the Sadducees, which deny that
there is any resurrection; and they asked him, 20:28 Saying, Master,
Moses wrote unto us, If any man's brother die, having a wife, and he
die without children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise
up  seed  unto  his  brother.  20:29  There  were  therefore  seven
brethren: and the first took a wife, and died without children. 20:30
And the second took her to wife, and he died childless. 20:31 And
the third took her; and in like manner the seven also: and they left
no children, and died. 20:32 Last of all the woman died also. 20:33
Therefore in the resurrection whose wife of them is she? for seven
had her to wife.20:34 And Jesus answering said unto them, The
children of this world marry, and are given in marriage: 20:35 But
they which shall be accounted worthy to obtain that world, and the
resurrection from the dead, neither marry, nor are given in marriage:
20:36 Neither can they die any more: for they are equal unto the
angels; and are the children of God, being the children of the
resurrection.  20:37  Now  that  the  dead  are  raised,  even  Moses
shewed at the bush, when he calleth the Lord the God of Abraham,
and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. 20:38 For he is not a
God of the dead, but of the living: for all live unto him.
3)Scribes:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
20:39 Then certain of the scribes answering said, Master, thou hast
well said. 20:40 And after that they durst not ask him any question
at all. 20:41 And he said unto them,  How say they that Christ is
David's son? 20:42 And David himself saith in the book of Psalms231,
The LORD said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, 20:43 Till I
make thine enemies thy footstool.  20:44 David therefore calleth
him Lord, how is he then his son? 20:45 Then in the audience of all
the people he said unto his disciples, 20:46 Beware of the scribes,
which desire to walk in long robes, and love greetings in the markets,
and the highest seats in the synagogues, and the chief rooms at
feasts; 20:47 Which devour widows' houses, and for a shew make
long prayers: the same shall receive greater damnation. 21:1 And he
looked up, and saw the rich men casting their gifts into the treasury.
21:2 And he saw also a certain poor widow casting in thither two
mites. 21:3 And he said,  Of a truth I say unto you, that this poor
widow hath cast in more than they all: 21:4 For all these have of their
abundance cast in unto the offerings of God: but she of her penury
hath cast in all the living that she had.
Before we leave this topic, we will consider an apocryphal report, of great
renown particularly among the Eastern Christians, of a communication
between Jesus and another king, in Syria.
Communication with King Abgar
Abgar/Abgarus V, was King of Osroene (what is currently part of Syria),
whose capitol city was Edessa and he reigned from 4 BCE to 15/50 CE.  He
was a contemporary of Jesus, and, according to some documentary sources
which are first described in the 4th century CE, they were in contact.
Eusebius, Bishop of Caesaria and prolific historian of early Christianity,
records a tradition, in his Historia Ecclesiastica, I, xiii, written in 325 CE,
concerning written communications exchanged between King Abgar of
Edessa  and  Jesus.   Eusebius  was  convinced  that  the  original  letters,
written in Syriac, were kept in the archives of Edessa.  Eusebius copies the
letter of Abgar and the response of Jesus into the text of his book.    In a
Syriac text called Doctrina Addai, which has been dated to the second half
of the 4th century CE, and which is attributed to Thaddeus of Edessa, one of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the seventy-two disciples, the story is somewhat different from the version
found in Eusebius.  According to this work, while the communication of
King Abgar V was in writing, the response of Jesus was given verbally to
Abgar’s envoy, the court archivist Hannan/Ananias, and this occurred in
the year 32 CE.  According to Doctrina Addai, Hannan painted an image of
Jesus, the first portrait from life.  Greek versions of this story are found in
the  Acta  Thaddaei.   In  the  mid-5th century  CE  the  History  of  the
Armenians of Moses of Chorene reported the story and indicated that
Hannan’s portrait of Jesus was preserved in Edessa.
An English translation, by M.R.James, of the Greek text of Eusebius232,
cites “a copy of a letter written by Abgarus the toparch to Jesus, and sent to
him by means of Ananias the runner, to Jerusalem”:
Abgarus Uchama the toparch to Jesus the good Saviour that hath appeared
in the parts (place) of Jerusalem, greeting. I have heard concerning thee
and thy cures, that they are done of thee without drugs or herbs: for, as the
report  goes,  thou  makest  blind  men  to  see  again,  lame  to  walk,  and
cleansest lepers, and castest out unclean spirits and devils, and those that
are afflicted with long sickness thou healest, and raisest the dead.   And
having heard all this of thee, I had determined one of two things, either
that thou art God come down from heaven, and so doest these things or art
a Son of God that doest these things.   Therefore now have I written and
entreated thee to trouble thyself to come to me and heal the affliction
which I have or indeed I have heard that the Jews even murmur against
thee and wish to do thee hurt. And I have a very little city but (and) comely
(reverend), which is sufficient for us both.
The  version  of  this  letter  found  in  Doctrina  Addai,  translated  into
English233, is as follows:
Abgar Ouchama to Jesus, the Good Physician Who has appeared in the
country of Jerusalem, greeting:  I have heard of Thee, and of Thy healing;
that Thou dost not use medicines or roots, but by Thy word openest (the
eyes) of the blind, makest the lame to walk, cleansest the lepers, makest
the deaf to hear; how by Thy word (also) Thou healest (sick) spirits and
those who are tormented with lunatic demons, and how, again, Thou
raisest the dead to life. And, learning the wonders that Thou doest, it was
borne in upon me that (of two things, one): either Thou hast come down
from heaven, or else Thou art the Son of God, who bringest all these things
to pass. Wherefore I write to Thee, and pray that thou wilt come to me,
who adore Thee, and heal all the ill that I suffer, according to the faith I
have  in  Thee.  I  also  learn  that  the  Jews  murmur  against  Thee,  and
persecute Thee, that they seek to crucify Thee, and to destroy Thee. I
possess but one small city, but it is beautiful, and large enough for us two
to live in peace.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
From  the  English  translation,  by  M.R.James,  of  the  Greek  text  of
Eusebius234, “the answer, written by Jesus, sent by Ananias the runner to
Abgarus the toparch” reads as follows:
Blessed art thou that hast believed in me, not having seen me.   For it is
written concerning me that they that have seen me shall not believe in me,
and that they that have not seen me shall believe and live. But concerning
that which thou hast written to me, to come unto thee; it must needs be
that I fulfill all things for the which I was sent here, and after fulfilling
them should then be taken up unto him that sent me.   And when I am
taken up, I will send thee one of my disciples, to heal thine affliction and
give life to thee and them that are with thee.
The oral response and circumstances thereof reported in Doctrina Addai,
translated into English235, is as follows:
When Jesus had received the letter, in the house of the high priest of the
Jews, He said to Hannan, the secretary, "Go thou, and say to thy master,
who hath sent thee to Me: 'Happy art thou who hast believed in Me, not
having seen me, for it is written of me that those who shall see me shall not
believe in Me, and that those who shall not see Me shall believe in Me. As
to that which thou hast written, that I should come to thee, (behold) all
that for which I was sent here below is finished, and I ascend again to My
Father who sent Me, and when I shall have ascended to Him I will send
thee one of My disciples, who shall heal all thy sufferings, and shall give
(thee) health again, and shall convert all who are with thee unto life
eternal. And thy city shall be bleseed forever, and the enemy shall never
overcome it.'"
According to currently accessible information236, versions of this story and
of the purported communication between Abgar V and Jesus survive in
Syriac, Armenian, in two independent Greek versions (Eusebius and Acta
Thaddaei), and several inscriptions on marble and metal.  It was used as a
talisman, an amulet by many Christians, particularly in the East.  It is also
cited in Syrian liturgies, during Lent, and in at least one Celtic liturgy, as
found in the Liber Hymnorum, a manuscript preserved at Trinity College,
Dublin (E. 4,2).
BOOK THE THIRD
Predictions of the Crucifixion and Resurrection

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The Apocalypses – After the Resurrection
The  Gospel of Mark gives an account of Jesus’ prophecies, called the
minor  apocalypse,  which  were  spoken  on  the  Mount  of  Olives  to  his
disciples:
13:1 And as he went out of the temple, one of his disciples saith unto
him, Master, see what manner of stones and what buildings are here!
13:2 And Jesus answering said unto him,  Seest thou these great
buildings? there shall not be left one stone upon another, that shall
not be thrown down. 13:3 And as he sat upon the mount of Olives
over against the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew
asked him privately,  13:4 Tell us, when shall these things be? and
what shall be the sign when all these things shall be fulfilled? 13:5
And Jesus answering them began to say, Take heed lest any man
deceive you: 13:6 For many shall come in my name, saying, I am
Christ; and shall deceive many. 13:7 And when ye shall hear of wars
and rumours of wars, be ye not troubled: for such things must
needs be; but the end shall not be yet. 13:8 For nation shall rise
against nation, and kingdom against kingdom: and there shall be
earthquakes  in  divers  places,  and  there  shall  be  famines  and
troubles: these are the beginnings of sorrows. 13:9 But take heed to
yourselves: for they shall deliver you up to councils; and in the
synagogues ye shall be beaten: and ye shall be brought before
rulers and kings for my sake, for a testimony against them. 13:10 And
the gospel must first be published among all nations. 13:11 But when
they  shall  lead  you,  and  deliver  you  up,  take  no  thought
beforehand what ye shall speak, neither do ye premeditate: but
whatsoever shall be given you in that hour, that speak ye: for it is
not ye that speak, but the Holy Ghost. 13:12 Now the brother shall
betray the brother to death, and the father the son; and children
shall rise up against their parents, and shall cause them to be put to

JESUS † The Complete Biography
death. 13:13 And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake: but
he that shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved. 13:14 But
when ye shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by
Daniel  the  prophet,  standing  where  it  ought  not,  (let  him  that
readeth understand,) then let them that be in Judaea flee to the
mountains: 13:15 And let him that is on the housetop not go down
into the house, neither enter therein, to take any thing out of his
house: 13:16 And let him that is in the field not turn back again for to
take up his garment. 13:17 But woe to them that are with child, and to
them that give suck in those days! 13:18 And pray ye that your flight
be not in the winter. 13:19 For in those days shall be affliction, such
as was not from the beginning of the creation which God created
unto this time, neither shall be. 13:20 And except that the Lord had
shortened those days, no flesh should be saved: but for the elect's
sake, whom he hath chosen, he hath shortened the days. 13:21 And
then if any man shall say to you, Lo, here is Christ; or, lo, he is
there; believe him not: 13:22 For false Christs and false prophets
shall rise, and shall shew signs and wonders, to seduce, if it were
possible, even the elect. 13:23 But take ye heed: behold, I have
foretold  you  all  things.  13:24  But  in  those  days,  after  that
tribulation, the sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall not give
her light, 13:25 And the stars of heaven shall fall, and the powers
that are in heaven shall be shaken. 13:26 And then shall they see the
Son of man coming in the clouds with great power and glory. 13:27
And then shall he send his angels, and shall gather together his
elect from the four winds, from the uttermost part of the earth to
the uttermost part of heaven. 13:28 Now learn a parable of the fig
tree; When her branch is yet tender, and putteth forth leaves, ye
know that summer is near: 13:29 So ye in like manner, when ye shall
see these things come to pass, know that it is nigh, even at the
doors. 13:30 Verily I say unto you, that this generation shall not

JESUS † The Complete Biography
pass, till all these things be done. 13:31 Heaven and earth shall pass
away: but my words shall not pass away. 13:32 But of that day and
that hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels which are in heaven,
neither the Son, but the Father. 13:33 Take ye heed, watch and
pray: for ye know not when the time is. 13:34 For the Son of Man is
as a man taking a far journey, who left his house, and gave authority
to his servants, and to every man his work, and commanded the
porter to watch. 13:35 Watch ye therefore: for ye know not when the
master of the house cometh, at even, or at midnight, or at the
cockcrowing, or in the morning: 13:36 Lest coming suddenly he find
you sleeping. 13:37 And what I say unto you I say unto all, Watch.
The  Gospel  of  Matthew gives  a  very  similar  version  of  the  minor
apocalypse:
24:1 And Jesus went out, and departed from the temple: and his
disciples came to him for to shew him the buildings of the temple.
24:2 And Jesus said unto them, See ye not all these things? verily I
say unto you, There shall not be left here one stone upon another,
that shall not be thrown down. 24:3 And as he sat upon the mount
of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying, Tell us,
when shall these things be? and what shall be the sign of thy coming,
and of the end of the world? 24:4 And Jesus answered and said
unto them, Take heed that no man deceive you. 24:5 For many shall
come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many. 24:6
And ye shall hear of wars and rumours of wars: see that ye be not
troubled: for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not
yet. 24:7 For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against
kingdom:  and  there  shall  be  famines,  and  pestilences,  and
earthquakes, in divers places. 24:8 All these are the beginning of
sorrows. 24:9 Then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted, and
shall kill you: and ye shall be hated of all nations for my name's

JESUS † The Complete Biography
sake. 24:10 And then shall many be offended, and shall betray one
another, and shall hate one another. 24:11 And many false prophets
shall rise, and shall deceive many. 24:12 And because iniquity shall
abound, the love of many shall wax cold. 24:13 But he that shall
endure unto the end, the same shall be saved. 24:14 And this gospel
of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto
all nations; and then shall the end come. 24:15 When ye therefore
shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the
prophet,  stand  in  the  holy  place,  (whoso  readeth,  let  him
understand:) 24:16 Then let them which be in Judaea flee into the
mountains: 24:17 Let him which is on the housetop not come down to
take any thing out of his house: 24:18 Neither let him which is in the
field return back to take his clothes. 24:19 And woe unto them that
are with child, and to them that give suck in those days! 24:20 But
pray ye that your flight be not in the winter, neither on the sabbath
day: 24:21 For then shall be great tribulation, such as was not since
the beginning of the world to this time, no, nor ever shall be. 24:22
And except those days should be shortened, there should no flesh
be saved: but for the elect's sake those days shall be shortened.
24:23 Then if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is Christ, or
there; believe it not. 24:24 For there shall arise false Christs, and
false prophets, and shall shew great signs and wonders; insomuch
that, if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect. 24:25
Behold, I have told you before. 24:26 Wherefore if they shall say
unto you, Behold, he is in the desert; go not forth: behold, he is in
the  secret  chambers;  believe  it  not.  24:27  For  as  the  lightning
cometh out of the east, and shineth even unto the west; so shall also
the  coming  of  the  Son  of  man  be.  24:28  For  wheresoever  the
carcase  is,  there  will  the  eagles  be  gathered  together.  24:29
Immediately after the tribulation of those days shall the sun be
darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall

JESUS † The Complete Biography
fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken:
24:30 And then shall appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven:
and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall see
the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great
glory. 24:31 And he shall send his angels with a great sound of a
trumpet, and they shall gather together his elect from the four
winds, from one end of heaven to the other. 24:32 Now learn a
parable of the fig tree; When his branch is yet tender, and putteth
forth leaves, ye know that summer is nigh: 24:33 So likewise ye,
when ye shall see all these things, know that it is near, even at the
doors. 24:34 Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not pass,
till all these things be fulfilled. 24:35 Heaven and earth shall pass
away, but my words shall not pass away. 24:36 But of that day and
hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven, but my Father
only. 24:37 But as the days of Noe were, so shall also the coming of
the Son of man be. 24:38 For as in the days that were before the
flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage,
until the day that Noe entered into the ark, 24:39 And knew not until
the flood came, and took them all away; so shall also the coming of
the Son of man be. 24:40 Then shall two be in the field; the one
shall  be  taken,  and  the  other  left.  24:41  Two  women  shall  be
grinding at the mill; the one shall be taken, and the other left. 24:42
Watch therefore: for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come.
24:43 But know this, that if the goodman of the house had known in
what watch the thief would come, he would have watched, and would
not have suffered his house to be broken up. 24:44 Therefore be
ye also ready: for in such an hour as ye think not the Son of man
cometh. 24:45 Who then is a faithful and wise servant, whom his lord
hath  made  ruler  over  his  household,  to  give  them  meat  in  due
season?  24:46 Blessed is that servant, whom his lord when he
cometh shall find so doing. 24:47 Verily I say unto you, That he shall

JESUS † The Complete Biography
make him ruler over all his goods. 24:48 But and if that evil servant
shall say in his heart, My lord delayeth his coming; 24:49 And shall
begin to smite his fellowservants, and to eat and drink with the
drunken; 24:50 The lord of that servant shall come in a day when he
looketh not for him, and in an hour that he is not aware of, 24:51
And shall cut him asunder, and appoint him his portion with the
hypocrites: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth. 25:1 Then
shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took
their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom. 25:2 And five of
them were wise, and five were foolish. 25:3 They that were foolish
took their lamps, and took no oil with them: 25:4 But the wise took
oil  in  their  vessels  with  their  lamps.  25:5  While  the  bridegroom
tarried, they all slumbered and slept. 25:6 And at midnight there was
a cry made, Behold, the bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him.
25:7 Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps. 25:8 And
the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil; for our lamps are
gone out. 25:9 But the wise answered, saying, Not so; lest there be
not enough for us and you: but go ye rather to them that sell, and
buy  for  yourselves.  25:10  And  while  they  went  to  buy,  the
bridegroom came; and they that were ready went in with him to the
marriage: and the door was shut. 25:11 Afterward came also the
other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. 25:12 But he answered
and  said,  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  I  know  you  not.  25:13  Watch
therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the
Son of man cometh. 25:14 For the kingdom of heaven is as a man
travelling  into  a  far  country,  who  called  his  own  servants,  and
delivered unto them his goods. 25:15 And unto one he gave five
talents, to another two, and to another one; to every man according
to his several ability; and straightway took his journey. 25:16 Then
he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same,
and made them other five talents. 25:17 And likewise he that had

JESUS † The Complete Biography
received  two,  he  also  gained  other  two.  25:18  But  he  that  had
received one went and digged in the earth, and hid his lord's money.
25:19 After a long time the lord of those servants cometh, and
reckoneth with them. 25:20 And so he that had received five talents
came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliveredst
unto me five talents: behold, I have gained beside them five talents
more. 25:21 His lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful
servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee
ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord. 25:22 He
also  that  had  received  two  talents  came  and  said,  Lord,  thou
deliveredst unto me two talents: behold, I have gained two other
talents beside them. 25:23 His lord said unto him, Well done, good
and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will
make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy
lord. 25:24 Then he which had received the one talent came and
said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art an hard man, reaping where
thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed:
25:25 And I was afraid, and went and hid thy talent in the earth: lo,
there thou hast that is thine. 25:26 His lord answered and said unto
him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap
where I sowed not, and gather where I have not strawed: 25:27 Thou
oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers, and
then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury. 25:28
Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath
ten talents. 25:29 For unto every one that hath shall be given, and
he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not shall be taken
away even that which he hath. 25:30 And cast ye the unprofitable
servant into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of
teeth. 25:31 When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the
holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory:
25:32 And before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall

JESUS † The Complete Biography
separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep
from the goats: 25:33 And he shall set the sheep on his right hand,
but the goats on the left. 25:34 Then shall the King say unto them
on  his  right  hand,  Come,  ye  blessed  of  my  Father,  inherit  the
kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: 25:35
For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye
gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: 25:36 Naked, and
ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye
came unto me. 25:37 Then shall the righteous answer him, saying,
Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, and fed thee? or thirsty, and
gave thee drink? 25:38 When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee
in? or naked, and clothed thee? 25:39 Or when saw we thee sick, or
in prison, and came unto thee? 25:40 And the King shall answer and
say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it
unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.
25:41 Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart
from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and
his angels: 25:42 For I was an hungred, and ye gave me no meat: I
was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink: 25:43 I was a stranger, and ye
took me not in: naked, and ye clothed me not: sick, and in prison,
and  ye  visited  me  not. 25:44 Then  shall  they also answer him,
saying,  Lord,  when  saw  we  thee  an  hungred,  or  athirst,  or  a
stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto
thee? 25:45 Then shall he answer them, saying, Verily I say unto you,
Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to
me. 25:46 And these shall go away into everlasting punishment: but
the righteous into life eternal.
The Gospel of Luke tells the story of what has been called the minor
apocalypse,  which  is  the  text  found  in  each  of  the  Gospels  of  Jesus’
prophecies:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
21:5 And as some spake of the temple, how it was adorned with
goodly stones and gifts, he said, 21:6 As for these things which ye
behold, the days will come, in the which there shall not be left one
stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down. 21:7 And they
asked him, saying, Master, but when shall these things be? and what
sign will there be when these things shall come to pass? 21:8 And he
said, Take heed that ye be not deceived: for many shall come in my
name, saying, I am Christ; and the time draweth near: go ye not
therefore  after  them.  21:9 But  when  ye  shall hear of  wars  and
commotions, be not terrified: for these things must first come to
pass; but the end is not by and by. 21:10 Then said he unto them,
Nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom: 21:11
And great earthquakes shall be in divers places, and famines, and
pestilences; and fearful sights and great signs shall there be from
heaven. 21:12 But before all these, they shall lay their hands on you,
and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues, and into
prisons, being brought before kings and rulers for my name's sake.
21:13 And it shall turn to you for a testimony. 21:14 Settle it therefore
in your hearts, not to meditate before what ye shall answer: 21:15 For
I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which all your adversaries shall
not be able to gainsay nor resist. 21:16 And ye shall be betrayed
both by parents, and brethren, and kinsfolks, and friends; and
some of you shall they cause to be put to death. 21:17 And ye shall
be hated of all men for my name's sake. 21:18 But there shall not an
hair of your head perish. 21:19 In your patience possess ye your
souls.  21:20  And  when  ye  shall  see  Jerusalem  compassed  with
armies, then know that the desolation thereof is nigh. 21:21 Then let
them which are in Judaea flee to the mountains; and let them which
are in the midst of it depart out; and let not them that are in the
countries enter thereinto. 21:22 For these be the days of vengeance,
that all things which are written may be fulfilled. 21:23 But woe unto

JESUS † The Complete Biography
them that are with child, and to them that give suck, in those days!
for there shall be great distress in the land, and wrath upon this
people. 21:24 And they shall fall by the edge of the sword, and shall
be led away captive into all nations: and Jerusalem shall be trodden
down of the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. 21:25
And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the
stars; and upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity; the
sea and the waves roaring; 21:26 Men's hearts failing them for fear,
and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth:
for the powers of heaven shall be shaken. 21:27 And then shall they
see the Son of man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.
21:28 And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up,
and lift up your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh. 21:29 And
he spake to them a parable; Behold the fig tree, and all the trees;
21:30 When they now shoot forth, ye see and know of your own
selves that summer is now nigh at hand. 21:31 So likewise ye, when ye
see these things come to pass, know ye that the kingdom of God is
nigh at hand. 21:32 Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not
pass away, till all be fulfilled. 21:33 Heaven and earth shall pass away:
but  my  words  shall  not  pass  away.  21:34  And  take  heed  to
yourselves,  lest  at  any  time  your  hearts  be  overcharged  with
surfeiting, and drunkenness, and cares of this life, and so that day
come upon you unawares. 21:35 For as a snare shall it come on all
them that dwell on the face of the whole earth. 21:36 Watch ye
therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to
escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before
the Son of man.
The Gospel of Mark follows the minor apocalypse with a report that just
before the feast of Passover, the priests and scribes were looking for a way
to put him to death:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
14:1  After  two  days  was  the  feast  of  the  passover,  and  of
unleavened bread: and the chief priests and the scribes sought how
they might take him by craft, and put him to death. 14:2 But they
said, Not on the feast day, lest there be an uproar of the people.
The Gospel of Matthew follows with the same report:
26:1 And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished all these sayings,
he said unto his disciples, 26:2 Ye know that after two days is the
feast  of  the  passover,  and  the  Son  of  man  is  betrayed  to  be
crucified. 26:3 Then assembled together the chief priests, and the
scribes, and the elders of the people, unto the palace of the high
priest, who was called Caiaphas, 26:4 And consulted that they
might take Jesus by subtilty, and kill him. 26:5 But they said, Not on
the feast day, lest there be an uproar among the people.
The  Gospel of Luke  indicates that Jesus repaired after delivering this
series of discourses to the Mount of Olives:
21:37 And in the day time he was teaching in the temple; and at night
he went out, and abode in the mount that is called the mount of
Olives. 21:38 And all the people came early in the morning to him in
the temple, for to hear him. 22:1 Now the feast of unleavened bread
drew nigh, which is called the Passover. 22:2 And the chief priests
and scribes sought how they might kill him; for they feared the
people.
Jesus enjoys his last dinner in Bethany
In two of the synoptic Gospels a supper follows immediately upon this
report.  We begin with the Gospel of Mark:
14:3 And being in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as he sat
at meat, there came a woman having an alabaster box of ointment of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
spikenard very precious; and she brake the box, and poured it on
his head. 14:4 And there were some that had indignation within
themselves, and said, Why was this waste of the ointment made? 14:5
For it might have been sold for more than three hundred pence, and
have been given to the poor. And they murmured against her. 14:6
And  Jesus  said,  Let  her  alone;  why  trouble  ye  her?  she  hath
wrought a good work on me. 14:7 For ye have the poor with you
always, and whensoever ye will ye may do them good: but me ye
have not always. 14:8 She hath done what she could: she is come
aforehand to anoint my body to the burying. 14:9 Verily I say unto
you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached throughout the
whole world, this also that she hath done shall be spoken of for a
memorial of her. 14:10 And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went
unto the chief priests, to betray him unto them.
The Gospel of Matthew is similar:
26:6 Now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the
leper, 26:7 There came unto him a woman having an alabaster box of
very precious ointment, and poured it on his head, as he sat at
meat.  26:8  But  when  his  disciples  saw  it,  they  had  indignation,
saying, To what purpose is this waste? 26:9 For this ointment might
have been sold for much, and given to the poor. 26:10 When Jesus
understood it, he said unto them, Why trouble ye the woman? for
she hath wrought a good work upon me. 26:11 For ye have the poor
always with you; but me ye have not always. 26:12 For in that she
hath poured this ointment on my body, she did it for my burial. 26:13
Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in
the whole world, there shall also this, that this woman hath done, be
told for a memorial of her. 26:14 Then one of the twelve, called
Judas Iscariot, went unto the chief priests…

JESUS † The Complete Biography
As we have already seen, the  Gospel of Luke omits this story, only
stating:
22:3 Then entered Satan into Judas surnamed Iscariot, being of the
number of the twelve.
Jesus anoints his disciples and outs his betrayer
The Gospel of John reports a meal shared prior to the feast of Passover,
and as he anoints his disciples and preaches to them, and neither the
actions nor the words are reported in any other Gospel, it will be treated
separately here:
13:1 Now before the feast of the passover, when Jesus knew that his
hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto the
Father, having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them
unto the end. 13:2  And supper being ended, the devil having now
put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him;
13:3  Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his
hands, and that he was come from God, and went to God; 13:4  He
riseth from supper, and laid aside his garments; and took a towel,
and girded himself. 13:5  After that he poureth water into a bason,
and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the
towel wherewith he was girded. 13:6  Then cometh he to Simon Peter:
and Peter saith unto him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet? 13:7  Jesus
answered and said unto him, What I do thou knowest not now; but
thou shalt know hereafter.  13:8  Peter saith unto him,  Thou shalt
never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I wash thee not, thou
hast no part with me. 13:9  Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, not my
feet only, but also my hands and my head. 13:10  Jesus saith to him,
He that is washed needeth not save to wash his feet, but is clean
every whit: and ye are clean, but not all. 13:11  For he knew who
should betray him; therefore said he, Ye are not all clean. 13:12  So
after he had washed their feet, and had taken his garments, and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
was set down again, he said unto them, Know ye what I have done to
you? 13:13  Ye call me Master and Lord: and ye say well; for so I am.
13:14  If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet; ye
also ought to wash one another's feet. 13:15  For I have given you an
example, that ye should do as I have done to you. 13:16  Verily, verily,
I say unto you, The servant is not greater than his lord; neither he
that is sent greater than he that sent him. 13:17  If ye know these
things, happy are ye if ye do them. 13:18  I speak not of you all: I
know whom I have chosen: but that the scripture may be fulfilled, He
that  eateth  bread  with  me  hath  lifted  up  his  heel  against  me.
13:19  Now I tell you before it come, that, when it is come to pass, ye
may believe that I am he. 13:20  Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that
receiveth whomsoever I send receiveth me; and he that receiveth me
receiveth him that sent me. 13:21 When Jesus had thus said, he was
troubled in spirit, and testified, and said,  Verily, verily, I say unto
you, that one of you shall betray me. 13:22 Then the  disciples
looked one on another, doubting of whom he spake. 13:23 Now there
was leaning on Jesus' bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved.
It should be noted that there is no naming of the disciple “whom Jesus
loved”,  either  here  or  elsewhere  in  the  canonical  and  non-canonical
literature.  It has been noted that the only man who is named as being
loved by Jesus was Lazarus, and that Jesus loved him so much that he
brought him back to life after he had been dead for four days.  Whether or
not this “disciple, whom Jesus loved”, referred to this way only in the
Gospel of John (John 13:23, 19:26, 20:2, 21:7, 21:20), was Lazarus, it is
evident that he was the “other disciple” also alluded to only in that Gospel
(John 18:16, 20:2-4, 20:8) and only subsequent to the resurrection of
Lazarus, whom he “loved” (John 11:5, 11:4-44).
13:24 Simon Peter therefore beckoned to him, that he should ask
who it should be of whom he spake. 13:25 He then lying on Jesus'
breast saith unto him, Lord, who is it? 13:26 Jesus answered, He it is,
to whom I shall give a sop, when I have dipped it. And when he had
dipped the sop, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. 13:27

JESUS † The Complete Biography
And after the sop Satan entered into him. Then said Jesus unto
him,  That thou doest, do quickly. 13:28 Now no man at the table
knew for what intent he spake this unto him. 13:29 For some of them
thought, because Judas had the bag, that Jesus had said unto him,
Buy those things that we have need of against the feast; or, that he
should give something to the poor. 13:30 He then having received
the sop went immediately out: and it was night.
While the synoptic gospels indicate that Jesus addressed many words to all
of the disciples during the Passover meal, according to the  Gospel of
John the greater part of his counsels on this occasion were uttered after
Judas Iscariot had left their midst.  For ease of comparison, those verses
which are found in another of the Gospel accounts are underlined here and
there:
13:31 Therefore, when he was gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son
of man glorified, and God is glorified in him. 13:32 If God be glorified
in him, God shall also glorify him in himself, and shall straightway
glorify him. 13:33 Little children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye
shall seek me: and as I said unto the Jews, Whither I go, ye cannot
come; so now I say to you. 13:34 A new commandment I give unto
you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love
one  another.  13:35  By  this  shall  all  men  know  that  ye  are  my
disciples, if ye have love one to another. 13:36 Simon Peter said unto
him,  Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered him,  Whither I go,
thou canst not follow me now; but thou shalt follow me afterwards.
13:37 Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? I will
lay down my life for thy sake. 13:38 Jesus answered him, Wilt thou lay
down thy life for my sake? Verily, verily, I say unto thee, The cock
shall not crow, till thou hast denied me thrice. 14:1 Let not your heart
be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me. 14:2 In my Father's
house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I
go to prepare a place for you. 14:3 And if I go and prepare a place

JESUS † The Complete Biography
for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I
am, there ye may be also. 14:4 And whither I go ye know, and the
way  ye  know.  14:5  Thomas  saith  unto  him,  Lord,  we  know  not
whither thou goest; and how can we know the way? 14:6 Jesus saith
unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto
the Father, but by me. 14:7 If ye had known me, ye should have
known my Father also: and from henceforth ye know him, and have
seen him. 14:8 Philip saith unto him, Lord, shew us the Father, and it
sufficeth us. 14:9 Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with
you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? he that hath seen me
hath seen the Father; and how sayest thou then, Shew us the
Father? 14:10 Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the
Father in me? the words that I speak unto you I speak not of myself:
but the Father that dwelleth in me, he doeth the works. 14:11 Believe
me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me: or else believe me
for the very works' sake. 14:12 Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that
believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater
works than these shall he do; because I go unto my Father. 14:13
And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the
Father may be glorified in the Son. 14:14 If ye shall ask any thing in
my name, I will do it. 14:15 If ye love me, keep my commandments. 14:16
And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter,
that he may abide with you for ever; 14:17 Even the Spirit of truth;
whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither
knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be
in you. 14:18 I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you. 14:19
Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more; but ye see me:
because I live, ye shall live also. 14:20 At that day ye shall know that I
am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you. 14:21 He that hath my
commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he
that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will

JESUS † The Complete Biography
manifest myself to him. 14:22 Judas saith unto him, not Iscariot,
Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us, and not unto
the world? 14:23 Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me,
he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come
unto him, and make our abode with him. 14:24 He that loveth me not
keepeth not my sayings: and the word which ye hear is not mine, but
the Father's which sent me. 14:25 These things have I spoken unto
you, being yet present with you. 14:26 But the Comforter, which is
the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall
teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance,
whatsoever I have said unto you. 14:27 Peace I leave with you, my
peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let
not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. 14:28 Ye have
heard how I said unto you, I go away, and come again unto you. If ye
loved me, ye would rejoice, because I said, I go unto the Father: for
my Father is greater than I. 14:29 And now I have told you before it
come to pass, that, when it is come to pass, ye might believe. 14:30
Hereafter I will not talk much with you: for the prince of this world
cometh, and hath nothing in me. 14:31 But that the world may know
that I love the Father; and as the Father gave me commandment,
even so I do. Arise, let us go hence. 15:1 I am the true vine, and my
Father is the husbandman. 15:2 Every branch in me that beareth not
fruit  he  taketh  away:  and  every  branch  that  beareth  fruit,  he
purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. 15:3 Now ye are clean
through the word which I have spoken unto you. 15:4 Abide in me,
and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it
abide in the vine; no more can ye, except ye abide in me. 15:5 I am the
vine, ye are the branches: He that abideth in me, and I in him, the
same bringeth forth much fruit: for without me ye can do nothing.
15:6 If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is
withered; and men gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they

JESUS † The Complete Biography
are burned. 15:7 If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye
shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. 15:8 Herein is my
Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit; so shall ye be my disciples.
15:9 As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you: continue ye in
my love. 15:10 If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my
love; even as I have kept my Father's commandments, and abide in
his love. 15:11 These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might
remain in you, and that your joy might be full. 15:12 This is my
commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you. 15:13
Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for
his friends. 15:14 Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command
you.  15:15  Henceforth  I  call  you  not  servants;  for  the  servant
knoweth not what his lord doeth: but I have called you friends; for
all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto
you. 15:16 Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and
ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your
fruit should remain: that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my
name, he may give it you. 15:17 These things I command you, that ye
love one another. 15:18 If the world hate you, ye know that it hated
me before it hated you. 15:19 If ye were of the world, the world would
love his own: but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen
you  out  of  the  world,  therefore  the  world  hateth  you.  15:20
Remember the word that I said unto you, The servant is not greater
than his lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute
you; if they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also. 15:21 But
all these things will they do unto you for my name's sake, because
they know not him that sent me. 15:22 If I had not come and spoken
unto them, they had not had sin: but now they have no cloak for
their sin. 15:23 He that hateth me hateth my Father also. 15:24 If I had
not done among them the works which none other man did, they had
not had sin: but now have they both seen and hated both me and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
my Father. 15:25 But this cometh to pass, that the word might be
fulfilled that is written in their law, They hated me without a cause.
15:26 But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you
from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the
Father, he shall testify of me: 15:27 And ye also shall bear witness,
because ye have been with me from the beginning. 16:1 These things
have I spoken unto you, that ye should not be offended. 16:2 They
shall put you out of the synagogues: yea, the time cometh, that
whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth God service. 16:3 And
these things will they do unto you, because they have not known the
Father, nor me. 16:4 But these things have I told you, that when the
time shall come, ye may remember that I told you of them. And these
things I said not unto you at the beginning, because I was with you.
16:5 But now I go my way to him that sent me; and none of you
asketh me, Whither goest thou? 16:6 But because I have said these
things unto you, sorrow hath filled your heart. 16:7 Nevertheless I tell
you the truth; It is expedient for you that I go away: for if I go not
away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I will
send him unto you. 16:8 And when he is come, he will reprove the
world of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment: 16:9 Of sin,
because they believe not on me; 16:10 Of righteousness, because I
go to my Father, and ye see me no more; 16:11 Of judgment, because
the prince of this world is judged. 16:12 I have yet many things to say
unto you, but ye cannot bear them now. 16:13 Howbeit when he, the
Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth: for he shall
not speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he
speak: and he will shew you things to come. 16:14 He shall glorify me:
for he shall receive of mine, and shall shew it unto you. 16:15 All
things that the Father hath are mine: therefore said I, that he shall
take of mine, and shall shew it unto you. 16:16 A little while, and ye
shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see me,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
because I go to the Father. 16:17 Then said some of his disciples
among themselves, What is this that he saith unto us, A little while,
and ye shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see me:
and, Because I go to the Father? 16:18 They said therefore, What is
this that he saith, A little while? we cannot tell what he saith. 16:19
Now Jesus knew that they were desirous to ask him, and said unto
them, Do ye enquire among yourselves of that I said, A little while,
and ye shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see me?
16:20 Verily, verily, I say unto you, That ye shall weep and lament,
but the world shall rejoice: and ye shall be sorrowful, but your
sorrow shall be turned into joy. 16:21 A woman when she is in travail
hath sorrow, because her hour is come: but as soon as she is
delivered of the child, she remembereth no more the anguish, for joy
that a man is born into the world. 16:22 And ye now therefore have
sorrow: but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and
your joy no man taketh from you. 16:23 And in that day ye shall ask
me nothing. Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall ask
the Father in my name, he will give it you. 16:24 Hitherto have ye
asked nothing in my name: ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy
may be full. 16:25 These things have I spoken unto you in proverbs:
but  the  time  cometh,  when  I  shall  no  more  speak  unto  you  in
proverbs, but I shall shew you plainly of the Father. 16:26 At that
day ye shall ask in my name: and I say not unto you, that I will pray
the Father for you: 16:27 For the Father himself loveth you, because
ye have loved me, and have believed that I came out from God.
16:28 I came forth from the Father, and am come into the world:
again, I leave the world, and go to the Father. 16:29 His disciples said
unto him, Lo, now speakest thou plainly, and speakest no proverb.
16:30 Now are we sure that thou knowest all things, and needest not
that any man should ask thee: by this we believe that thou camest
forth from God. 16:31 Jesus answered them, Do ye now believe? 16:32

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Behold,  the  hour  cometh,  yea,  is  now  come,  that  ye  shall  be
scattered, every man to his own, and shall leave me alone: and yet I
am not alone, because the Father is with me. 16:33 These things I
have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world
ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the
world.  17:1 These words spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to
heaven, and said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy
Son also may glorify thee: 17:2 As thou hast given him power over all
flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given
him. 17:3 And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only
true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent.  17:4  I  have
glorified thee on the earth: I have finished the work which thou
gavest me to do. 17:5 And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine
own self with the glory which I had with thee before the world was.
17:6 I have manifested thy name unto the men which thou gavest me
out of the world: thine they were, and thou gavest them me; and
they have kept thy word. 17:7 Now they have known that all things
whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee. 17:8 For I have given unto
them the words which thou gavest me; and they have received them,
and have known surely that I came out from thee, and they have
believed that thou didst send me. 17:9 I pray for them: I pray not for
the world, but for them which thou hast given me; for they are thine.
17:10 And all mine are thine, and thine are mine; and I am glorified in
them. 17:11 And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the
world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep through thine own
name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we
are. 17:12 While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name:
those that thou gavest me I have kept, and none of them is lost, but
the son of perdition; that the scripture might be fulfilled. 17:13 And
now come I to thee; and these things I speak in the world, that they
might have my joy fulfilled in themselves. 17:14 I have given them thy

JESUS † The Complete Biography
word; and the world hath hated them, because they are not of the
world, even as I am not of the world. 17:15 I pray not that thou
shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep
them from the evil. 17:16 They are not of the world, even as I am not
of the world. 17:17 Sanctify them through thy truth: thy word is truth.
17:18 As thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I also sent
them into the world. 17:19 And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that
they also might be sanctified through the truth. 17:20 Neither pray I
for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through
their word; 17:21 That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me,
and I in thee, that they also may be one in us: that the world may
believe that thou hast sent me. 17:22 And the glory which thou
gavest me I have given them; that they may be one, even as we are
one: 17:23 I in them, and thou in me, that they may be made perfect in
one; and that the world may know that thou hast sent me, and hast
loved them, as thou hast loved me. 17:24 Father, I will that they also,
whom thou hast given me, be with me where I am; that they may
behold my glory, which thou hast given me: for thou lovedst me
before the foundation of the world. 17:25 O righteous Father, the
world hath not known thee: but I have known thee, and these have
known that thou hast sent me. 17:26 And I have declared unto them
thy name, and will declare it: that the love wherewith thou hast loved
me may be in them, and I in them.
Judas Iscariot makes a deal
The Gospel of Mark reports that Judas Iscariot made a deal to betray
Jesus to the authorities, immediately prior to the feast of Passover:
14:10 And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went unto the chief
priests, to betray him unto them. 14:11 And when they heard it, they
were glad, and promised to give him money. And he sought how he

JESUS † The Complete Biography
might conveniently betray him. 14:12 And the first day of unleavened
bread, when they killed the passover…
The Gospel of Matthew tells virtually the same story:
26:14 Then one of the twelve, called Judas Iscariot, went unto the
chief priests, 26:15 And said unto them, What will ye give me, and I will
deliver him  unto you? And they covenanted with him for thirty
pieces of silver. 26:16 And from that time he sought opportunity to
betray  him. 26:17 Now the  first  day of  the  feast  of  unleavened
bread…
The Gospel of Luke tells the same story, but omitting the price:
22:3 Then entered Satan into Judas surnamed Iscariot, being of the
number of the twelve. 22:4 And he went his way, and communed with
the chief priests and captains, how he might betray him unto them.
22:5 And they were glad, and covenanted to give him money. 22:6
And he promised, and sought opportunity to betray him unto them
in the absence of the multitude.
The Passover seder with the Jesus and his disciples
The synoptic Gospels then tell the story of the “last supper”, the first meal
of  the  feast  of  Passover,  which  Jesus  shared  with  his  disciples  in
Jerusalem, first with the Gospel of Mark:
14:12 And the first day of unleavened bread, when they killed the
passover, his disciples said unto him, Where wilt thou that we go and
prepare that thou mayest eat the passover? 14:13 And he sendeth
forth two of his disciples, and saith unto them, Go ye into the city,
and there shall meet you a man bearing a pitcher of water: follow
him. 14:14 And wheresoever he shall go in, say ye to the goodman of
the house, The Master saith, Where is the guestchamber, where I

JESUS † The Complete Biography
shall eat the passover with my disciples? 14:15 And he will shew you a
large upper room furnished and prepared: there make ready for us.
14:16 And his disciples went forth, and came into the city, and found
as he had said unto them: and they made ready the passover. 14:17
And in the evening he cometh with the twelve. 14:18 And as they sat
and did eat, Jesus said,  Verily I say unto you, One of you which
eateth  with  me  shall  betray  me. 14:19  And  they  began  to  be
sorrowful, and to say unto him one by one, Is it I? and another said,
Is it I? 14:20 And he answered and said unto them, It is one of the
twelve, that dippeth with me in the dish. 14:21 The Son of man indeed
goeth, as it is written of him: but woe to that man by whom the Son
of man is betrayed! good were it for that man if he had never been
born. 14:22 And as they did eat, Jesus took bread, and blessed, and
brake it, and gave to them, and said, Take, eat: this is my body.
14:23 And he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it
to them: and they all drank of it. 14:24 And he said unto them, This
is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many. 14:25
Verily I say unto you, I will drink no more of the fruit of the vine, until
that day that I drink it new in the kingdom of God.

14:26 And when
they had sung an hymn, they went out into the mount of Olives.
The Gospel of Matthew tells the same story with greater brevity:
26:17  Now  the  first  day  of  the  feast  of  unleavened  bread  the
disciples came to Jesus, saying unto him,  Where wilt thou that we
prepare for thee to eat the passover? 26:18 And he said, Go into the
city to such a man, and say unto him, The Master saith, My time is at
hand; I will keep the passover at thy house with my disciples.  26:19
And the disciples did as Jesus had appointed them; and they made
ready the passover.  26:20 Now when the even was come, he sat
down with the twelve.  26:21 And as they did eat, he said, Verily I say
unto you, that one of you shall betray me.  26:22 And they were

JESUS † The Complete Biography
exceeding sorrowful, and began every one of them to say unto him,
Lord, is it I? 26:23 And he answered and said, He that dippeth his
hand with me in the dish, the same shall betray me.  26:24 The Son
of man goeth as it is written of him: but woe unto that man by whom
the Son of man is betrayed! it had been good for that man if he had
not been born.  26:25 Then Judas, which betrayed him, answered
and said, Master, is it I? He said unto him, Thou hast said.  26:26
And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and
brake it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my
body.

26:27 And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and gave it to
them, saying, Drink ye all of it; 26:28 For this is my blood of the new
testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. 26:29
But I say unto you, I will not drink henceforth of this fruit of the
vine, until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's
kingdom.

26:30 And when they had sung an hymn, they went out
into the mount of Olives.
The Gospel of Luke likewise tells this story:
22:7 Then came the day of unleavened bread, when the passover
must be killed. 22:8 And he sent Peter and John, saying,  Go and
prepare us the passover, that we may eat. 22:9 And they said unto
him, Where wilt thou that we prepare? 22:10 And he said unto them,
Behold, when ye are entered into the city, there shall a man meet
you, bearing a pitcher of water; follow him into the house where he
entereth in. 22:11 And ye  shall say unto the goodman of the house,
The Master saith unto thee, Where is the guestchamber, where I
shall eat the passover with my disciples? 22:12 And he shall shew you
a large upper room furnished: there make ready. 22:13 And they
went, and found as he had said unto them: and they made ready the
passover. 22:14 And when the hour was come, he sat down, and the
twelve apostles with him.22:15 And he said unto them, With desire I

JESUS † The Complete Biography
have desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer: 22:16 For I
say unto you, I will not any more eat thereof, until it be fulfilled in the
kingdom of God. 22:17 And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and
said, Take this, and divide it among yourselves: 22:18 For I say unto
you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine, until the kingdom of God
shall come.

22:19 And he took bread, and gave thanks, and brake it,
and gave unto them, saying, This is my body which is given for you:
this do in remembrance of me. 22:20 Likewise also the cup after
supper, saying, This cup is the new testament in my blood, which is
shed for you. 22:21 But, behold, the hand of him that betrayeth me
is with me on the table. 22:22 And truly the Son of man goeth, as it
was determined: but woe unto that man by whom he is betrayed!
22:23 And they began to enquire among themselves, which of them it
was that should do this thing. 22:24 And there was also a strife
among them, which of them should be accounted the greatest. 22:25
And he said unto them, The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship
over them; and they that exercise authority upon them are called
benefactors. 22:26 But ye shall not be so: but he that is greatest
among you, let him be as the younger; and he that is chief, as he
that doth serve. 22:27 For whether is greater, he that sitteth at
meat, or he that serveth? is not he that sitteth at meat? but I am
among  you  as  he  that  serveth.  22:28  Ye  are  they  which  have
continued with me in my temptations. 22:29 And I appoint unto you a
kingdom, as my Father hath appointed unto me; 22:30 That ye may
eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging
the twelve tribes of Israel. 22:31 And the Lord said, Simon, Simon,
behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as
wheat: 22:32 But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not: and
when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. 22:33 And he
said unto him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee, both into prison,
and to death. 22:34 And he said, I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not

JESUS † The Complete Biography
crow this day, before that thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest
me.

22:35 And he said unto them, When I sent you without purse,
and scrip, and shoes, lacked ye any thing? And they said, Nothing.
22:36 Then said he unto them, But now, he that hath a purse, let him
take it, and likewise his scrip: and he that hath no sword, let him sell
his garment, and buy one. 22:37 For I say unto you, that this that is
written must yet be accomplished in me, And he was reckoned
among the transgressors: for the things concerning me have an end.
22:38 And they said,  Lord, behold, here are two swords. And he
said unto them, It is enough.
In the Garden of Gethsemane, Mount of Olives
The Gospel of Mark tells the story of the last night of Jesus, before his
capture:
14:26 And when they had sung an hymn, they went out into the
mount of Olives. 14:27 And Jesus saith unto them,  All ye shall be
offended because of me this night: for it is written237, I will smite the
shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered. 14:28 But after that I
am risen, I will go before you into Galilee. 14:29 But Peter said unto
him, Although all shall be offended, yet will not I. 14:30 And Jesus
saith unto him,  Verily I say unto thee, That this day, even in this
night, before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice.
The only Gospel account that places Jesus’ prophecy regarding the three
denials of his disciple Peter at the Passover seder is the Gospel of Luke.  In
the Gospel of Mark (14:30), and the Gospel of Matthew (26:34), the
prophecy is told on the Mount of Olives, after Jesus and his disciples had
completed the seder.
14:31 But he spake the more vehemently, If I should die with thee, I
will not deny thee in any wise. Likewise also said they all. 14:32 And
they came to a place which was named Gethsemane: and he saith to

JESUS † The Complete Biography
his disciples, Sit ye here, while I shall pray. 14:33 And he taketh with
him Peter and James and John, and began to be sore amazed, and
to be very heavy; 14:34 And saith unto them, My soul is exceeding
sorrowful unto death: tarry ye here, and watch. 14:35 And he went
forward a little, and fell on the ground, and prayed that, if it were
possible, the hour might pass from him. 14:36 And he said, Abba,
Father, all things are possible unto thee; take away this cup from
me: nevertheless not what I will, but what thou wilt.  14:37 And he
cometh, and findeth them sleeping, and saith unto Peter,  Simon,
sleepest thou? couldest not thou watch one hour? 14:38 Watch ye
and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. The spirit truly is ready, but
the flesh is weak. 14:39 And again he went away, and prayed, and
spake the same words. 14:40 And when he returned, he found them
asleep again, (for their eyes were heavy,) neither wist they what to
answer him. 14:41 And he cometh the third time, and saith unto them,
Sleep on now, and take your rest: it is enough, the hour is come;
behold, the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. 14:42
Rise up, let us go; lo, he that betrayeth me is at hand.
The Gospel of Matthew tells the same story:
26:30 And when they had sung an hymn, they went out into the
mount of Olives. 26:31 Then saith Jesus unto them, All ye shall be
offended because of me this night: for it is written, I will smite the
shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered abroad.
26:32 But after I am risen again, I will go before you into Galilee.
26:33 Peter answered and said unto him,  Though all men shall be
offended because of thee, yet will I never be offended. 26:34 Jesus
said unto him,  Verily I say unto thee, That this night, before the
cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. 26:35 Peter said unto him,
Though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee. Likewise also
said all the disciples. 26:37 And he took with him Peter and the two

JESUS † The Complete Biography
sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy. 26:38
Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto
death: tarry ye here, and watch with me. 26:39 And he went a little
farther, and fell on his face, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it
be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless not as I will, but
as thou wilt. 26:40 And he cometh unto the disciples, and findeth
them asleep, and saith unto Peter, What, could ye not watch with me
one hour? 26:41 Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation:
the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. 26:42 He went away
again the second time, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if this cup
may not pass away from me, except I drink it, thy will be done. 26:43
And he came and found them asleep again: for their eyes were
heavy. 26:44 And he left them, and went away again, and prayed
the third time, saying the same words. 26:45 Then cometh he to his
disciples, and saith unto them, Sleep on now, and take your rest:
behold, the hour is at hand, and the Son of man is betrayed into the
hands of sinners. 26:46 Rise, let us be going: behold, he is at hand
that doth betray me.
The  Gospel of Luke tells an abbreviated tale of their last visit to the
Mount of Olives:
22:39 And he came out, and went, as he was wont, to the mount of
Olives; and his disciples also followed him. 22:40 And when he was
at  the  place,  he  said  unto  them,  Pray  that  ye  enter  not  into
temptation. 22:41 And he was withdrawn from them about a stone's
cast, and kneeled down, and prayed, 22:42 Saying, Father, if thou
be willing, remove this cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but
thine, be done. 22:43 And there appeared an angel unto him from
heaven, strengthening him. 22:44 And being in an agony he prayed
more earnestly: and his sweat was as it were great drops of blood
falling down to the ground. 22:45 And when he rose up from prayer,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and was come to his disciples, he found them sleeping for sorrow,
22:46 And said unto them,  Why sleep ye? rise and pray, lest ye
enter into temptation.
The  Gospel of John gives the shortest of references to this event, and
then proceeds immediately to his delivery into captivity by Judas Iscariot:
18:1 When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his
disciples over the brook Cedron, where was a garden, into the which
he entered, and his disciples.
Delivered into captivity by Judas Iscariot
The Gospel of Mark tells the story of Jesus delivered into captivity by
Judas Iscariot:
14:43 And immediately, while he yet spake, cometh Judas, one of
the twelve, and with him a great multitude with swords and staves,
from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders. 14:44 And he
that betrayed him had given them a token, saying,  Whomsoever I
shall kiss, that same is he; take him, and lead him away safely. 14:45
And as soon as he was come, he goeth straightway to him, and
saith,  Master, master; and kissed him. 14:46 And they laid their
hands on him, and took him. 14:47 And one of them that stood by
drew a sword, and smote a servant of the high priest, and cut off his
ear. 14:48 And Jesus answered and said unto them,  Are ye come
out, as against a thief, with swords and with staves to take me?
14:49 I was daily with you in the temple teaching, and ye took me
not: but the scriptures must be fulfilled. 14:50 And they all forsook
him, and fled. 14:51 And there followed him a certain young man,
having a linen cloth cast about his naked body; and the young men
laid hold on him: 14:52 And he left the linen cloth, and fled from them
naked.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The  Gospel of Matthew tells substantially the same story with some
important details filled in:
26:47 And while he yet spake, lo, Judas, one of the twelve, came,
and with him a great multitude with swords and staves, from the
chief priests and elders of the people. 26:48 Now he that betrayed
him gave them a sign, saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, that same is
he: hold him fast. 26:49 And forthwith he came to Jesus, and said,
Hail, master; and kissed him. 26:50 And Jesus said unto him, Friend,
wherefore art thou come? Then came they, and laid hands on Jesus
and took him. 26:51 And, behold, one of them which were with Jesus
stretched out his hand, and drew his sword, and struck a servant of
the high priest's, and smote off his ear. 26:52 Then said Jesus unto
him, Put up again thy sword into his place: for all they that take the
sword shall perish with the sword. 26:53 Thinkest thou that I cannot
now pray to my Father, and he shall presently give me more than
twelve legions of angels? 26:54 But how then shall the scriptures be
fulfilled, that thus it must be? 26:55 In that same hour said Jesus to
the multitudes, Are ye come out as against a thief with swords and
staves for to take me? I sat daily with you teaching in the temple,
and ye laid no hold on me. 26:56 But all this was done, that the
scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples
forsook him, and fled.
The Gospel of Luke tells virtually the same story:
22:47 And while he yet spake, behold a multitude, and he that was
called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them, and drew near
unto Jesus to kiss him. 22:48 But Jesus said unto him,  Judas,
betrayest thou the Son of man with a kiss? 22:49 When they which
were about him saw what would follow, they said unto him,  Lord,
shall we smite with the sword? 22:50 And one of them smote the
servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear. 22:51 And Jesus

JESUS † The Complete Biography
answered and said, Suffer ye thus far. And he touched his ear, and
healed  him.  22:52  Then  Jesus  said  unto  the  chief  priests,  and
captains of the temple, and the elders, which were come to him, Be
ye come out, as against a thief, with swords and staves? 22:53 When
I was daily with you in the temple, ye stretched forth no hands
against me: but this is your hour, and the power of darkness.
The Gospel of John adds details to the story:
18:1 When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his
disciples over the brook Cedron, where was a garden, into the which
he entered, and his disciples.  18:2 And Judas also, which betrayed
him, knew the place: for Jesus ofttimes resorted thither with his
disciples.  18:3 Judas then, having received a band of men and
officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, cometh thither with
lanterns and torches and weapons.  18:4 Jesus therefore, knowing
all things that should come upon him, went forth, and said unto
them, Whom seek ye?  18:5 They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth.
Jesus saith unto them, I am he. And Judas also, which betrayed him,
stood with them.  18:6 As soon then as he had said unto them, I am
he, they went backward, and fell to the ground.  18:7 Then asked he
them again, Whom seek ye? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth.  18:8
Jesus answered, I have told you that I am he: if therefore ye seek
me, let these go their way:  18:9 That the saying might be fulfilled,
which he spake238, Of them which thou gavest me have I lost none.
18:10 Then Simon Peter having a sword drew it, and smote the high
priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant's name was
Malchus.  18:11 Then said Jesus unto Peter, Put up thy sword into
the sheath: the cup which my Father hath given me, shall I not drink
it?
Jesus taken to Annas and Caiaphas

JESUS † The Complete Biography
In the synoptic Gospels, when Jesus is apprehended, “Peter followed afar
off” (Mark 14:53-54; Matthew 26:57-58; Luke 22:54).
The Gospel of Mark:
14:53 And they led Jesus away to the high priest: and with him
were assembled all the chief priests and the elders and the
scribes.  14:54 And Peter followed him afar off, even into the
palace of the high priest: and he sat with the servants, and
warmed himself at the fire.
The Gospel of Matthew:
26:57  And  they  that  had  laid  hold  on  Jesus  led  him  away  to
Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were
assembled. 26:58 But Peter followed him afar off unto the high
priest's palace, and went in, and sat with the servants, to see the
end.
The Gospel of Luke:
22:54 Then took they him, and led him, and brought him into the
high priest's house. And Peter followed afar off. 22:55 And when
they had kindled a fire in the midst of the hall, and were set down
together, Peter sat among them.
The Gospel of John reports that Peter was not the only disciple who
followed Jesus.  This is the only account of this event that includes this
“other disciple”:
18:15 And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another
disciple; that disciple was known unto the high priest, and
went in with Jesus into the palace of the high priest.  18:16 But
Peter stood at the door without.  Then went out that other

JESUS † The Complete Biography
disciple, which was known unto the high priest, and spake
unto her that kept the door, and brought in Peter.
Who is this unnamed disciple, if not the similarly unnamed “other disciple,
who Jesus loved” (John 13:23, 19:26, 20:2, 21:7, 20-24)?  And how did he
come to be “known unto the high priest”?  It is certainly possible that this
unnamed disciple was Lazarus, and that he was a kohen himself, as Eleazar
was the patronymic of a line of high priests239:  “The high-priesthood
remained in the family of Eleazar until the time of Eli, into whose family it
passed (Eli was a descendant of  Ithamar, Eleazar's brother[3]). The high
priesthood was restored to the family of Eleazar in the person of  Zadok
after  Abiathar was cast out by  Solomon.”  There are many reasons to
conclude that the “beloved disciple” so copiously referred to in the Gospel
and John,  and nowhere else, was not, as has been supposed  for  two
millennia, John of Galilee, but rather, Lazarus of Judaea.  More about that
later.
Now as to the actual trial of Jesus, the Gospel of Mark:
14:55 And the chief priests and all the council sought for
witness against Jesus to put him to death; and found none.
14:56  For  many  bare  false  witness  against  him,  but  their
witness agreed not together.  14:57 And there arose certain,
and bare false witness against him, saying,  14:58 We heard him
say,  I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and
within three days I will build another made without hands.
14:59 But neither so did their witness agree together.  14:60
And the high priest stood up in the midst, and asked Jesus,
saying, Answerest thou nothing? what is it which these witness
against thee?  14:61 But he held his peace, and answered
nothing. Again the high priest asked him, and said unto him,
Art thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?  14:62 And Jesus
said, I am: and ye shall see the Son of man sitting on the right
hand of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven.  14:63
Then the high priest rent his clothes, and saith, What need we

JESUS † The Complete Biography
any further witnesses?  14:64 Ye have heard the blasphemy:
what think ye?  And they all condemned him to be guilty of
death.  14:65 And some began to spit on him, and to cover his
face, and to buffet him, and to say unto him, Prophesy: and
the servants did strike him with the palms of their hands.
The Gospel of Matthew adds a few details but otherwise the details are
virtually identical:
26:59 Now the chief priests, and elders, and all the council, sought
false witness against Jesus, to put him to death; 26:60 But found
none: yea, though many false witnesses came, yet found they none.
At the last came two false witnesses, 26:61 And said,  This fellow
said, I am able to destroy the temple of God, and to build it in three
days. 26:62 And the high priest arose, and said unto him, Answerest
thou nothing? what is it which these witness against thee? 26:63 But
Jesus held his peace, And the high priest answered and said unto
him, I adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell us whether thou be
the Christ, the Son of God. 26:64 Jesus saith unto him, Thou hast
said: nevertheless I say unto you, Hereafter shall ye see the Son of
man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of
heaven. 26:65 Then the high priest rent his clothes, saying, He hath
spoken  blasphemy;  what  further  need  have  we  of  witnesses?
behold, now ye have heard his blasphemy.26:66 What think ye?
They answered and said, He is guilty of death. 26:67 Then did they
spit in his face, and buffeted him; and others smote him with the
palms of their hands, 26:68 Saying, Prophesy unto us, thou Christ,
Who is he that smote thee?
The Gospel of Luke refers to Jesus being brought before Caiaphas in one
verse, and then comes back to it (after recounting the three denials of
Peter):

JESUS † The Complete Biography
22:54 Then took they him, and led him, and brought him into the
high priest’s house.  And Peter followed afar off.
22:63 And the men that held Jesus mocked him, and smote him.
22:64 And when they had blindfolded him, they struck him on the
face, and asked him, saying, Prophesy, who is it that smote thee?
22:65 And many other things blasphemously spake they against him.
22:66 And as soon as it was day, the elders of the people and the
chief priests and the scribes came together, and led him into their
council, saying, 22:67 Art thou the Christ? tell us. And he said unto
them, If I tell you, ye will not believe: 22:68 And if I also ask you, ye
will not answer me, nor let me go. 22:69 Hereafter shall the Son of
man sit on the right hand of the power of God. 22:70 Then said they
all, Art thou then the Son of God? And he said unto them, Ye say
that I am. 22:71 And they said, What need we any further witness? for
we ourselves have heard of his own mouth.
The Gospel of John sums this arraignment before the chief priest in two
verses, and indicates that Jesus was brought first to Annas and then to
Caiaphas:
18:13 And led him away to Annas first; for he was father in law to
Caiaphas,  which  was  the  high  priest  that  same  year.  18:14  Now
Caiaphas  was  he,  which  gave  counsel  to  the  Jews,  that  it  was
expedient that one man should die for the people…
18:19 The high priest then asked Jesus of his disciples, and of his
doctrine. 18:20 Jesus answered him, I spake openly to the world; I
ever taught in the synagogue, and in the temple, whither the Jews
always resort; and in secret have I said nothing. 18:21 Why askest
thou me? ask them which heard me, what I have said unto them:
behold, they know what I said. 18:22 And when he had thus spoken,
one of the officers which stood by struck Jesus with the palm of his
hand,  saying,  Answerest  thou  the  high  priest  so?  18:23  Jesus

JESUS † The Complete Biography
answered him, If I have spoken evil, bear witness of the evil: but if
well, why smitest thou me? 18:24 Now Annas had sent him bound
unto Caiaphas the high priest.
According to the Gospel of Luke (3:2) and the Book of Acts (4:6), both
Annas  and  Caiaphas  were  considered  “high  priests”.    Whereas  his
interview with Caiaphas is described in the synoptic gospels, it is not in the
Gospel of John:
18:24  Now  Annas  had  sent  him  bound  unto  Caiaphas  the  high
priest…
18:28 Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas unto the hall of judgment:
and it was early; and they themselves went not into the judgment
hall,  lest  they  should  be  defiled;  but  that  they  might  eat  the
passover.
The three denials of Peter
The canonical Gospels tell a story which begins with a prophecy and ends
with a fulfillment.  According to the Gospel of Mark (14:30), the Gospel of
Matthew (26:34), the Gospel of Luke (22:34) and the Gospel of John
(13:38), Jesus prophesied that Peter would deny him three times before a
rooster crows.  The implication seems to be that this would take place on
one day, the very day that Jesus made the prediction.  In the Gospels of
Mark and Matthew, Peter emphatically denied that he would ever deny
Jesus.  All four Gospels describe the fulfillment of this prophecy.  First we
cite the Gospel of Mark:
14:66 And as Peter was beneath in the palace, there cometh one of
the maids of the high priest: 14:67 And when she saw Peter warming
himself, she looked upon him, and said,  And thou also wast with
Jesus of Nazareth. 14:68 But he denied, saying, I know not, neither
understand I what thou sayest. And he went out into the porch; and
the cock crew.  14:69 And a maid saw him again, and began to say to
them that stood by,  This is one of them.  14:70 And he denied it
again. And a little after, they that stood by said again to Peter,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Surely thou art one of them: for thou art a Galilaean, and thy
speech agreeth thereto. 14:71 But he began to curse and to swear,
saying, I know not this man of whom ye speak. 14:72 And the second
time the cock crew. And Peter called to mind the word that Jesus
said unto him,  Before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me
thrice. And when he thought thereon, he wept.
The Gospel of Matthew tells the story in almost identical phrasing:
26:69 Now Peter sat without in the palace: and a damsel came unto
him, saying,  Thou also wast with Jesus of Galilee. 26:70 But he
denied before them all, saying, I know not what thou sayest. 26:71
And when he was gone out into the porch, another maid saw him,
and said unto them that were there, This fellow was also with Jesus
of Nazareth. 26:72 And again he denied with an oath, I do not know
the man. 26:73 And after a while came unto him they that stood by,
and said to Peter, Surely thou also art one of them; for thy speech
bewrayeth  thee.  26:74  Then  began  he  to  curse  and  to  swear,
saying, I know not the man. And immediately the cock crew.  26:75
And Peter remembered the word of Jesus, which said unto him,
Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. And he went out,
and wept bitterly.
The Gospel of Luke tells the same story, except in this version Jesus is
present, and he looks upon Peter after Peter denies him three times:
22:54 Then took they him, and led him, and brought him into the
high priest's house. And Peter followed afar off. 22:55 And when
they had kindled a fire in the midst of the hall, and were set down
together, Peter sat down among them. 22:56 But a certain maid
beheld him as he sat by the fire, and earnestly looked upon him, and
said, This man was also with him. 22:57 And he denied him, saying,
Woman, I know him not. 22:58 And after a little while another saw

JESUS † The Complete Biography
him, and said, Thou art also of them. And Peter said, Man, I am not.
22:59 And about the space of one hour after another confidently
affirmed, saying, Of a truth this fellow also was with him: for he is a
Galilaean. 22:60 And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest.
And immediately, while he yet spake, the cock crew. 22:61 And the
Lord turned, and looked upon Peter. And Peter remembered the
word of the Lord, how he had said unto him, Before the cock crow,
thou shalt deny me thrice. 22:62 And Peter went out, and wept
bitterly.
The Gospel of John likewise relates this fulfillment of prophecy, but with a
detail not noted by any of the other evangelists—he identifies the third
peson who asked Peter if he was one of the disciples; not surprising, since,
according to this Gospel, Peter was accompanied by “another disciple”, and
it is his version of the story that seems to be told here:
18:15 And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple:
that disciple was known unto the high priest, and went in with Jesus
into the palace of the high priest. 18:16 But Peter stood at the door
without. Then went out that other disciple, which was known unto
the high priest, and spake unto her that kept the door, and brought
in Peter. 18:17 Then saith the damsel that kept the door unto Peter,
Art not thou also one of this man's disciples? He saith, I am not. 18:18
And the servants and officers stood there, who had made a fire of
coals; for it was cold: and they warmed themselves: and Peter stood
with them, and warmed himself…
18:25  And  Simon  Peter  stood  and  warmed  himself.  They  said
therefore unto him,  Art not thou also one of his disciples? He
denied it, and said, I am not. 18:26 One of the servants of the high
priest, being his kinsman whose ear Peter cut off, saith, Did not I
see thee in the garden with him? 18:27 Peter then denied again: and
immediately the cock crew.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The visit to Pontius Pilatus and Herod Antipas
The Gospel of Luke indicates that Jesus was brought first to Pilatethen
to Herod, and then back to Pilate:
23:1 And the whole multitude of them arose, and led him unto Pilate.
23:2 And they began to accuse him, saying,  We found this fellow
perverting the nation, and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar,
saying that he himself is Christ a King. 23:3 And Pilate asked him,
saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? And he answered him and
said, Thou sayest it. 23:4 Then said Pilate to the chief priests and
to the people,  I find no fault in this man.  23:5 And they were the
more fierce, saying, He stirreth up the people, teaching throughout
all Jewry, beginning from Galilee to this place. 23:6 When Pilate
heard of Galilee, he asked whether the man were a Galilaean. 23:7
And as soon as he knew that he belonged unto Herod's jurisdiction,
he sent him to Herod, who himself also was at Jerusalem at that
time.
After Jesus met with Herod, the Gospel of Luke continues the story as
follows:
23:12  And  the  same  day  Pilate  and  Herod  were  made  friends
together: for before they were at enmity between themselves. 23:13
And Pilate, when he had called together the chief priests and the
rulers and the people, 23:14 Said unto them, Ye have brought this
man unto me, as one that perverteth the people: and, behold, I,
having examined him before you, have found no fault in this man
touching those things whereof ye accuse him:  23:15 No, nor yet
Herod: for I sent you to him; and, lo, nothing worthy of death is
done unto him.  23:16 I will therefore chastise him, and release him.
23:17 (For of necessity he must release one unto them at the feast.)
23:18 And they cried out all at once, saying, Away with this man, and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
release unto us Barabbas: 23:19 (Who for a certain sedition made in
the  city,  and  for  murder,  was  cast  into  prison.)  23:20  Pilate
therefore, willing to release Jesus, spake again to them. 23:21 But
they cried, saying, Crucify him, crucify him. 23:22 And he said unto
them the third time, Why, what evil hath he done? I have found no
cause of death in him: I will therefore chastise him, and let him go.
23:23 And they were instant with loud voices, requiring that he might
be  crucified.  And  the  voices  of  them  and  of  the  chief  priests
prevailed. 23:24 And Pilate gave sentence that it should be as they
required. 23:25 And he released unto them him that for sedition and
murder  was  cast  into  prison,  whom  they  had  desired;  but  he
delivered Jesus to their will.
The other three canonical Gospels report that Jesus encountered only the
governor of Judaea, named Pontius Pilatus.  The most detailed account of
this interrogation is in the Gospel of John:
18:28 Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas unto the hall of judgment:
and it was early; and they themselves went not into the judgment
hall,  lest  they  should  be  defiled;  but  that  they  might  eat  the
passover. 18:29 Pilate then went out unto them, and said,  What
accusation bring ye against this man? 18:30 They answered and said
unto him, If he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered
him up unto thee. 18:31 Then said Pilate unto them, Take ye him, and
judge him according to your law. The Jews therefore said unto him,
It is not lawful for us to put any man to death: 18:32 That the saying
of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spake, signifying what death he
should die. 18:33 Then Pilate entered into the judgment hall again,
and called Jesus, and said unto him, Art thou the King of the Jews?
18:34 Jesus answered him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did
others tell it thee of me? 18:35 Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thine
own nation and the chief priests have delivered thee unto me: what

JESUS † The Complete Biography
hast thou done? 18:36 Jesus answered,  My kingdom is not of this
world: if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants
fight, that I should not be delivered to the Jews: but now is my
kingdom not from hence. 18:37 Pilate therefore said unto him,  Art
thou a king then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. To
this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I
should bear witness unto the truth. Every one that is of the truth
heareth my voice.  18:38 Pilate saith unto him,  What is truth?  And
when he had said this, he went out again unto the Jews, and saith
unto them, I find in him no fault at all. 18:39 But ye have a custom,
that I should release unto you one at the passover: will ye therefore
that I release unto you the King of the Jews? 18:40 Then cried they
all again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a
robber. 19:1 Then Pilate therefore took Jesus, and scourged him.
19:2 And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns, and put it on his
head, and they put on him a purple robe, 19:3 And said, Hail, King of
the Jews! and they smote him with their hands. 19:4 Pilate therefore
went forth again, and saith unto them, Behold, I bring him forth to
you, that ye may know that I find no fault in him. 19:5 Then came
Jesus forth, wearing the crown of thorns, and the purple robe. And
Pilate saith unto them, Behold the man! 19:6 When the chief priests
therefore and officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify him,
crucify him. Pilate saith unto them, Take ye him, and crucify him: for
I find no fault in him. 19:7 The Jews answered him, We have a law, and
by our law he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of
God. 19:8 When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he was the more
afraid; 19:9 And went again into the judgment hall, and saith unto
Jesus, Whence art thou? But Jesus gave him no answer. 19:10 Then
saith Pilate unto him, Speakest thou not unto me? knowest thou not
that I have power to crucify thee, and have power to release thee?
19:11 Jesus answered, Thou couldest have no power at all against me,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
except it were given thee from above: therefore he that delivered me
unto thee hath the greater sin.  19:12 And from thenceforth Pilate
sought to release him: but the Jews cried out, saying, If thou let this
man go, thou art not Caesar's friend: whosoever maketh himself a
king speaketh against Caesar. 19:13 When Pilate therefore heard
that saying, he brought Jesus forth, and sat down in the judgment
seat in a place that is called the Pavement, but in the Hebrew,
Gabbatha. 19:14 And it was the preparation of the passover, and
about the sixth hour: and he saith unto the Jews, Behold your King!
19:15 But they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him.
Pilate saith unto them, Shall I crucify your King? The chief priests
answered, We have no king but Caesar. 19:16 Then delivered he him
therefore unto them to be crucified. And they took Jesus, and led
him away. 19:17 And he bearing his cross went forth into a place
called the place of a skull, which is called in the Hebrew Golgotha:
19:18 Where they crucified him, and two other with him, on either side
one, and Jesus in the midst. 19:19 And Pilate wrote a title, and put it
on the cross. And the writing was  JESUS OF NAZARETH THE
KING OF THE JEWS. 19:20 This title then read many of the Jews:
for the place where Jesus was crucified was nigh to the city: and it
was written in Hebrew, and Greek, and Latin. 19:21 Then said the
chief priests of the Jews to Pilate, Write not, The King of the Jews;
but that he said, I am King of the Jews. 19:22 Pilate answered, What I
have written I have written.
The account is somewhat less detailed in the Gospel of Matthew:
27:1 When the morning was come, all the chief priests and elders of
the people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death: 27:2 And
when they had bound him, they led him away, and delivered him to
Pontius Pilate the governor. 27:3 Then Judas, which had betrayed
him, when he saw that he was condemned, repented himself, and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
brought again the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and
elders,  27:4  Saying,  I  have  sinned  in  that  I  have  betrayed  the
innocent blood. And they said, What is that to us? see thou to that.
27:5  And  he  cast  down  the  pieces  of  silver  in  the  temple, and
departed, and went and hanged himself. 27:6 And the chief priests
took the silver pieces, and said, It is not lawful for to put them into
the treasury, because it is the price of blood. 27:7 And they took
counsel, and bought with them the potter's field, to bury strangers
in. 27:8 Wherefore that field was called, The field of blood, unto this
day. 27:9 Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremy the
prophet, saying240,  And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the
price of him that was valued, whom they of the children of Israel did
value; 27:10  And  gave  them  for  the  potter's  field,  as  the  Lord
appointed me. 27:11 And Jesus stood before the governor: and the
governor asked him, saying,  Art thou the King of the Jews? And
Jesus said unto him, Thou sayest. 27:12 And when he was accused
of the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing. 27:13 Then said
Pilate unto him,  Hearest thou not how many things they witness
against thee? 27:14 And he answered him to never a word; insomuch
that the governor marvelled greatly. 27:15 Now at that feast the
governor was wont to release unto the people a prisoner, whom
they would. 27:16 And they had then a notable prisoner, called
Barabbas.  27:17  Therefore  when  they  were  gathered  together,
Pilate  said  unto  them,  Whom  will  ye  that  I  release  unto  you?
Barabbas, or Jesus which is called Christ? 27:18 For he knew that
for envy they had delivered him. 27:19 When he was set down on the
judgment seat, his wife sent unto him, saying, Have thou nothing to
do with that just man: for I have suffered many things this day in a
dream  because  of  him. 27:20  But  the  chief  priests  and  elders
persuaded  the  multitude  that  they  should  ask  Barabbas,  and
destroy Jesus. 27:21 The governor answered and said unto them,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Whether  of the twain will ye that I release unto you?  They said,
Barabbas. 27:22 Pilate saith unto them,  What shall I do then with
Jesus which is called Christ?  They all say unto him,  Let him be
crucified. 27:23 And the governor said, Why, what evil hath he done?
But they cried out the more, saying,  Let him be crucified. 27:24
When Pilate saw that he could prevail nothing, but that rather a
tumult was made, he took water, and washed his hands before the
multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just person: see
ye to it. 27:25 Then answered all the people, and said, His blood be
on us, and on our children. 27:26 Then released he Barabbas unto
them: and when he had scourged Jesus, he delivered him to be
crucified.
In the Gospel of Mark the story is told:
15:1  And  straightway  in  the  morning  the  chief  priests  held  a
consultation with the elders and scribes and the whole council, and
bound Jesus, and carried him away, and delivered him to Pilate. 15:2
And Pilate asked him,  Art thou the King of the Jews? And he
answering said unto them, Thou sayest it. 15:3 And the chief priests
accused him of many things: but he answered nothing. 15:4 And
Pilate asked him again, saying, Answerest thou nothing? behold how
many things they witness against thee. 15:5 But Jesus yet answered
nothing; so that Pilate marvelled. 15:6 Now at that feast he released
unto them one prisoner, whomsoever they desired. 15:7 And there
was one named Barabbas, which lay bound with them that had made
insurrection with him, who had committed murder in the insurrection.
15:8 And the multitude crying aloud began to desire him to do as he
had ever done unto them. 15:9 But Pilate answered them, saying, Will
ye that I release unto you the King of the Jews? 15:10 For he knew
that the chief priests had delivered him for envy. 15:11 But the chief
priests moved the people, that he should rather release Barabbas

JESUS † The Complete Biography
unto them. 15:12 And Pilate answered and said again unto them, What
will ye then that I shall do unto him whom ye call the King of the
Jews? 15:13 And they cried out again, Crucify him. 15:14 Then Pilate
said unto them, Why, what evil hath he done? And they cried out the
more exceedingly, Crucify him. 15:15 And so Pilate, willing to content
the people, released Barabbas unto them, and delivered Jesus,
when he had scourged him, to be crucified.
A remarkable characteristic of these accounts in all but the  Gospel of
Luke  is  the  silence  with  which  Jesus  meets  the  accusations  of  his
antagonists.  Why didn’t he defend himself?  Why did he permit these
blasphemies to go unanswered?  There is immense wisdom demonstrated
by this behavior, which we will consider at length and in depth.  At the top
of the list, let us consider for a moment the hierarchy, and to whom a
response may be demanded.  When Job questions God’s judgment in
visiting plagues and tribulations upon him, God answers him: “38:1 Then
the LORD answered Job out of the whirlwind, and said, 38:2 Who is this
that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge? 38:3 Gird up now
thy loins like a man; for I will demand of thee, and answer thou me. 38:4
Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? declare, if thou
hast understanding.”    In relation to the chief priest, to Pilate, and to
Herod,  Jesus  is  infinitely  higher  in  authority.   It  is  for  him  to  pose
questions and for them to reply, and not the inverse.  By questioning and
especially by challenging him to explain himself, they transgress their
boundaries, the violate their relationship with God.  Perhaps a little lower
on the list is the inevitability of this moment, faced in one fashion or
another by every Manifestation of God, for all of them are opposed by the
religious and secular authorities of their times, and without this opposition
their divine sovereignty and prophetic station would not be recognized.
Yet a little lower on this list is the danger which prolonged argumentation
could bring upon the intimates of Jesus.  At that moment his opponents
were asking for his head, but if he had dared to prolong the debacle and
challenge their power, they might well have sought to harm his family or
his followers.  The Manifestation of God does not think only of himself but
of everyone in the world.  Of what possible benefit would a prolongation of
his passion serve in any case?
Jesus brought to Golgotha
The  Gospel of Mark tells the next act of the story, wherein Jesus is
bedecked with faux-royal finery and conducted to the place of crucifixion:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
15:16 And the soldiers led him away into the hall, called Praetorium;
and they call together the whole band. 15:17 And they clothed him
with purple, and platted a crown of thorns, and put it about his
head, 15:18 And began to salute him, Hail, King of the Jews! 15:19 And
they smote him on the head with a reed, and did spit upon him, and
bowing  their  knees  worshipped  him.  15:20  And  when  they  had
mocked him, they took off the purple from him, and put his own
clothes on him, and led him out to crucify him. 15:21 And they compel
one Simon a Cyrenian, who passed by, coming out of the country,
the father of Alexander and Rufus, to bear his cross. 15:22 And they
bring him unto the place Golgotha, which is, being interpreted, The
place of a skull.
The Gospel of Matthew tells the next act of the story, in virtually the
same words as the Gospel of Mark:
27:27 Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the common
hall, and gathered unto him the whole band of soldiers. 27:28 And
they stripped him, and put on him a scarlet robe. 27:29 And when
they had platted a crown of thorns, they put it upon his head, and a
reed in his right hand: and they bowed the knee before him, and
mocked him, saying,  Hail, King of the Jews! 27:30 And they spit
upon him, and took the reed, and smote him on the head. 27:31 And
after that they had mocked him, they took the robe off from him,
and put his own raiment on him, and led him away to crucify him.
27:32 And as they came out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by
name: him they compelled to bear his cross. 27:33 And when they
were come unto a place called Golgotha, that is to say, a place of a
skull…
The Gospel of Luke does not repeat the details of how Jesus was mocked
and abused, but it is the repository of a unique address of Jesus to the
women of Judaea:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
23:25 And he released unto them him that for sedition and murder
was cast into prison, whom they had desired; but he delivered Jesus
to their will. 23:26 And as they led him away, they laid hold upon one
Simon, a Cyrenian, coming out of the country, and on him they laid
the  cross,  that  he  might  bear  it  after  Jesus.  23:27  And  there
followed him a great company of people, and of women, which also
bewailed and lamented him. 23:28 But Jesus turning unto them said,
Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves,
and for your children. 23:29 For, behold, the days are coming, in the
which they shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that
never bare, and the paps which never gave suck. 23:30 Then shall
they begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us; and to the hills,
Cover us. 23:31 For if they do these things in a green tree, what shall
be  done  in  the  dry? 23:32  And  there  were  also  two  other,
malefactors, led with him to be put to death. 23:33 And when they
were come to the place, which is called Calvary, there they crucified
him, and the malefactors, one on the right hand, and the other on
the left.
The Gospel of John says nothing of the events described in the synoptic
Gospels, which may indicate that its author was not a witness.
Crucifixion
The Gospels describe the crucifixion of Jesus in quite remarkable detail
and their accounts reiterate most of the same elements.  Let us begin with
the Gospel of Mark:
15:23 And they gave him to drink wine mingled with myrrh: but he
received it not. 15:24 And when they had crucified him, they parted
his garments, casting lots upon them, what every man should take.
15:25 And it was the third hour, and they crucified him. 15:26 And the
superscription of his accusation was written over, THE KING OF

JESUS † The Complete Biography
THE JEWS. 15:27 And with him they crucify two thieves; the one on
his right hand, and the other on his left. 15:28 And the scripture was
fulfilled, which saith, And he was numbered with the transgressors. 4
15:29 And they that passed by railed on him, wagging their heads,
and saying, Ah, thou that destroyest the temple, and buildest it in
three days, 15:30 Save thyself, and come down from the cross. 15:31
Likewise also the chief priests mocking said among themselves with
the scribes,  He saved others; himself he cannot save.  15:32 Let
Christ the King of Israel descend now from the cross, that we may
see and believe. And they that were crucified with him reviled him.
15:33 And when the sixth hour was come, there was darkness over
the whole land until the ninth hour. 15:34 And at the ninth hour
Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani?
which  is,  being  interpreted,  My  God,  my  God,  why  hast  thou
forsaken me? 15:35 And some of them that stood by, when they
heard it, said, Behold, he calleth Elias. 15:36 And one ran and filled a
spunge full of vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him to drink,
saying,  Let alone; let us see whether Elias will come to take him
down.  15:37 And Jesus cried with a loud voice, and gave up the
ghost.
Substantially the same account is found in the Gospel of Matthew:
27:34 They gave him vinegar to drink mingled with gall: and when he
had tasted thereof, he would not drink. 27:35 And they crucified
him, and parted his garments, casting lots: that it might be fulfilled
which was spoken by the prophet, They parted my garments among
them, and upon my vesture did they cast lots.5 27:36 And sitting
down they watched him there; 27:37 And set up over his head his
4 Isaiah 53:12.
5 Psalms 22:18.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
accusation written, THIS IS JESUS THE KING OF THE JEWS.
27:38 Then were there two thieves crucified with him, one on the
right hand, and another on the left. 27:39 And they that passed by
reviled  him,  wagging  their  heads,  27:40  And  saying,  Thou  that
destroyest the temple, and buildest it in three days, save thyself. If
thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross. 27:41 Likewise
also the chief priests mocking him, with the scribes and elders, said,
27:42 He saved others; himself he cannot save. If he be the King of
Israel, let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe him.
27:43 He trusted in God; let him deliver him now, if he will have him:
for he said, I am the Son of God. 27:44 The thieves also, which were
crucified with him, cast the same in his teeth. 27:45 Now from the
sixth hour there was darkness over all the land unto the ninth hour.
27:46 And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice,
saying, Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani? that is to say, My God, my God,
why hast thou forsaken me? 27:47 Some of them that stood there,
when they heard that, said,  This man calleth for Elias. 27:48 And
straightway one of them ran, and took a spunge, and filled it with
vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him to drink. 27:49 The rest
said, Let be, let us see whether Elias will come to save him. 27:50
Jesus, when he had cried again with a loud voice, yielded up the
ghost.
Likewise we find most of the same features of this same crucifixion account
in Gospel of Luke:
23:34 Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them; for they know not what
they do. And they parted his raiment, and cast lots. 23:35 And the
people stood beholding. And the rulers also with them derided him,
saying,  He saved others; let him save himself, if he be Christ, the
chosen of God. 23:36 And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to
him, and offering him vinegar, 23:37 And saying, If thou be the king

JESUS † The Complete Biography
of the Jews, save thyself. 23:38 And a superscription  also  was
written over him in letters of Greek, and Latin, and Hebrew, THIS IS
THE KING OF THE JEWS. 23:39 And one of the malefactors which
were hanged railed on him, saying,  If thou be Christ, save thyself
and us. 23:40 But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost
not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? 23:41
And we indeed justly; for we receive the due reward of our deeds:
but this man hath done nothing amiss.  23:42 And he said unto
Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom.
23:43 And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, To day shalt
thou be with me in paradise. 23:44 And it was about the sixth hour,
and there was a darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour.
23:45 And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent
in the midst. 23:46 And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he
said,  Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said
thus, he gave up the ghost.
The Gospel of John is very succinct by comparison; after describing the
witnesses present and his words to them:
19:28  After  this,  Jesus  knowing  that  all  things  were  now
accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled241, saith, I thirst.
19:29 Now there was set a vessel full of vinegar: and they filled a
spunge with vinegar, and put it upon hyssop, and put it to his
mouth. 19:30 When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he
said, It is finished: and he bowed his head, and gave up the ghost.
Witnesses of the crucifixion
The Gospel of Mark reports that:
15:40 There were also women looking on afar off: among whom was
Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the less and of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Joses, and Salome; 15:41 Who also, when he was in Galilee, followed
him, and ministered unto him; and many other women which came up
with him unto Jerusalem.
The Gospel of Matthew reports:
27:55   And  many  women  were  there  beholding  afar  off,  which
followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering unto him;  27:56 Among
which was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and
Joses, and the mother of Zebedee’s children.
The Gospel of Luke likewise reports:
23:49  And all his acquaintance, and the women that followed him
from Galilee, stood afar off, beholding these things.
The  Gospel of John reports the presence of “the disciple…whom he
loved”, along with his mother, his aunt and Mary Magdalene, but not “afar
off” but “by the cross”:
Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother's
sister, Mary the wife of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene. 19:26 When
Jesus therefore saw his mother, and the disciple standing by, whom
he loved, he saith unto his mother,  Woman, behold thy son! 19:27
Then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother! And from that
hour that disciple took her unto his own home.
The Gospel of John is the only account that points to the presence of one
of the male disciples at the crucifixion; it identifies who that disciple was;
and it reports that Jesus directed this disciple to take care of his mother as
if she were his own.  It has been pointed out that the crucifixion occurred
in Jerusalem, and that the home of Lazarus, whom Jesus loved, was only a
few  miles  away  in  Bethany;  while  the  home  of  John,  who  has  been
regarded for centuries as the “beloved disciple”, would have been located
in a small village on the shore of the Kinneret, the sea of Galilee, over 100
miles from Jerusalem.   While Lazarus had an established home, in which
Martha and Mary were also living, it seems from the Gospel narrative that,
as one of the twelve, John had been on the road nonstop since meeting

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Jesus.  As Jesus replied when “a certain scribe came, and said unto him,
Master, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest.  And Jesus saith unto
him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests; but the Son
of man hath not where to lay his head.”  (Matthew 8:19-20)  Another
reason for regarding Lazarus as the “beloved disciple”, and hence honoring
those traditions that identified her resting place as Jerusalem, rather than
others which erroneously paired her up with John and had both of them
die in the city of Ephesus (Turkish: Efes), many years later.
Miraculous signs after the Crucifixion
The  Gospel of Mark reports a miraculous event, the cracking of the
immediately subsequent to the crucifixion:
15:38 And the veil of the temple was rent in twain from the top to the
bottom.
The Gospel of Matthew writes the same, and adds details:
27:51 And, behold, the veil of the temple was rent in twain from the
top to the bottom; and the earth did quake, and the rocks rent;
27:52 And the graves were opened; and many bodies of the saints
which slept arose,  27:53 And came out of the graves after his
resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many.
The Gospel of Luke writes the same and adds one detail:
23:45 And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent
in the midst.
The only disciple who witnessed the crucifixion was the “beloved disciple”,
and the  Gospel of John which purports to be his testimony does not
report any of these events.  The “veil of the temple” to which all three
synoptic  Gospels  refer  is  καταπέτασμα,  ατος,  τό (transliterated
katapetasma) in the original Greek; according to Strong’s Concordance242,
it is  literally  “that which is spread  out downwards,  that which hangs
down”, a curtain, veil, of that which separated the Holy of Holies from the
outer parts of the temple at Jerusalem, also of an outer curtain at the
entrance to the Holy Place in the same temple.”  Any worshipping Jew
could have attested to this event, and it is surprising that it is not reported

JESUS † The Complete Biography
by Josephus or in the Talmud or any other Jewish-authored text of the
time.   The  eclipse  of  the  sun,  reported  in  the  Gospel  of  Luke,  the
earthquake  reported  in  the  Gospel  of  Matthew,  and  the  physical
resurrection of entombed saints reported in the Gospel of Matthew are also
unreported.  Attempts to buttress this account through the citation of
independent testimonies, notably the references in the works of Christian
apologists hundreds of years after the event, to a pagan author called
Thallus have been debunked as untenable243.
A Roman Witness to the Crucifixion
The  Gospel of Mark reports that a Roman centurion witnessed the
crucifixion and was converted by the experience:
15:39 And when the centurion, which stood over against him, saw
that he so cried out, and gave up the ghost, he said, Truly this man
was the Son of God.
The Gospel of Matthew writes the same:
27:54 Now when the centurion, and they that were with him, watching
Jesus, saw the earthquake, and those things that were done, they
feared greatly saying, Truly this was the Son of God.
The Gospel of Luke:
23:47 Now when the centurion saw what was done, he glorified God,
saying, Certainly this was a righteous man.  23:48 And all the people
that came together to that sight, beholding the things which were
done, smote their breasts, and returned.
The Gospel of John does not refer to the centurion, or to the miraculous
events to which the centurion seems to be responding.  While the “beloved
disciple” could not have witnessed the rending of the Temple veil, as he
was on Calgary watching the crucifixion, he could have experienced an
earthquake, and the physical resurrection of the saints from the graveyard
that is situation adjacent to the place of crucifixion…but he is silent.
The Last Words of Jesus

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Through the centuries there has been much discussion about the last
words of Jesus.  In the Gospels of Mark and Matthew the last words
spoken by Jesus are virtually identical.  The Gospels of Luke and John
cite entirely different last words.  There is agreement however between the
three synoptic Gospels that just before dying Jesus “cried with a loud
voice”—only the  Gospel of Luke records the actual words that Jesus
cried.  And then there is the Gospel of John, which only refers to Jesus
bowing his head and not to  cry before he died.   All versions are here cited,
without preference or disapproval.
The Gospel of Mark:
15:34 And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying,
Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? which is, being interpreted, My God,
my God, why hast thou forsaken me? 15:35 And some of them that
stood by, when they heard it, said, Behold, he calleth Elias. 15:36
And one ran and filled a spunge full of vinegar, and put it on a reed,
and gave him to drink, saying, Let alone; let us see whether Elias will
come to take him down. 15:37 And Jesus cried with a loud voice, and
gave up the ghost.
The Gospel of Matthew:
27:46 And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice,
saying, Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani? that is to say, My God, my God,
why hast thou forsaken me? 27:47 Some of them that stood there,
when they heard that, said,  This man calleth for Elias. 27:48 And
straightway one of them ran, and took a spunge, and filled it with
vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him to drink. 27:49 The rest
said, Let be, let us see whether Elias will come to save him. 27:50
Jesus, when he had cried again with a loud voice, yielded up the
ghost.
The Gospel of Luke:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
23:46 And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father,
into thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said thus, he gave up
the ghost.
The Gospel of John:
19:30 When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is
finished: and he bowed his head, and gave up the ghost.
Of these accounts, the one that comes from an alleged eye-witness is that
reported in the Gospel of John.  And it is the simplest.  If it be alleged that
the  “beloved  disciple”  perhaps  did  not  hear  the  last  words  of  Jesus
reported by the other Gospels, consider that all three indicate that he said
these last words “with a loud voice” (Mark 15:37, Matthew 27:50, Luke
23:46).  As the “beloved disciple” was standing right there, what likelihood
is there that he would not have heard and reported these last words?
The Day of Preparation
All four canonical Gospels report that Jesus died on the day before the
Sabbath, which, according to the Jewish calendar, begins with sunset on
Yom Shlishi (Thursday) and ends with sunset on Yom Shivi (Friday).  As
the accounts speak of the evening coming after the death of Jesus, and
state that “it was the preparation”, and as the friends and followers of
Jesus were in a hurry to transfer his body inot a sepulchre, it is evident that
the crucifixion took place on Yom Shivi (Friday) and that the body of Jesus
was removed from the cross and placed in a sepulchre on Erev Shabbat.
The Gospel of Mark:
15:40 There were also women looking on afar off: among whom was
Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the less and of
Joses, and Salome; 15:41 (Who also, when he was in Galilee, followed
him, and ministered unto him;) and many other women which came
up with him unto Jerusalem. 15:42 And now when the even was come,
because it was the preparation, that is, the day before the sabbath,
15:43 Joseph of Arimathaea, an honourable counsellor, which also
waited for the kingdom of God, came, and went in boldly unto

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Pilate, and craved the body of Jesus. 15:44 And Pilate marvelled if
he were already dead: and calling unto him the centurion, he asked
him whether he had been any while dead. 15:45 And when he knew it
of the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph. 15:46 And he bought
fine linen, and took him down, and wrapped him in the linen, and laid
him in a sepulchre which was hewn out of a rock, and rolled a stone
unto the door of the sepulchre. 15:47 And Mary Magdalene and
Mary the mother of Joses beheld where he was laid.
The Gospel of Matthew:
And many women were there beholding afar off, which followed
Jesus from Galilee, ministering unto him: 27:56 Among which was
Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joses, and
the mother of Zebedees children. 27:57 When the even was come,
there came a rich man of Arimathaea, named Joseph, who also
himself was Jesus' disciple: 27:58 He went to Pilate, and begged the
body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded the body to be delivered.
27:59 And when Joseph had taken the body, he wrapped it in a
clean linen cloth, 27:60 And laid it in his own new tomb, which he had
hewn out in the rock: and he rolled a great stone to the door of the
sepulchre, and departed. 27:61 And there was Mary Magdalene, and
the other Mary, sitting over against the sepulchre.
The Gospel of Luke:
And all his acquaintance, and the women that followed him from
Galilee, stood afar off, beholding these things. 23:50 And, behold,
there was a man named Joseph, a counsellor; and he was a good
man, and a just: 23:51 (The same had not consented to the counsel
and deed of them;) he was of Arimathaea, a city of the Jews: who
also himself waited for the kingdom of God. 23:52 This man went
unto Pilate, and begged the body of Jesus. 23:53 And he took it

JESUS † The Complete Biography
down, and wrapped it in linen, and laid it in a sepulchre that was
hewn in stone, wherein never man before was laid. 23:54 And that
day was the preparation, and the sabbath drew on. 23:55 And the
women also, which came with him from Galilee, followed after, and
beheld the sepulchre, and how his body was laid.
The Gospel of John:
19:31 The Jews therefore, because it was the preparation, that the
bodies should not remain upon the cross on the sabbath day, (for
that sabbath day was an high day,) besought Pilate that their legs
might be broken, and that they might be taken away. 19:32 Then
came the soldiers, and brake the legs of the first, and of the other
which was crucified with him. 19:33 But when they came to Jesus, and
saw that he was dead already, they brake not his legs: 19:34 But one
of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and forthwith came
there out blood and water. 19:35 And he that saw it bare record, and
his record is true: and he knoweth that he saith true, that ye might
believe. 19:36 For these things were done, that the scripture should
be fulfilled244, A bone of him shall not be broken.  19:37 And again
another  scripture  saith245,  They  shall  look  on  him  whom  they
pierced. 19:38 And after this Joseph of Arimathaea, being a disciple
of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, besought Pilate that he
might take away the body of Jesus: and Pilate gave him leave. He
came therefore, and took the body of Jesus. 19:39 And there came
also Nicodemus, which at the first came to Jesus by night, and
brought a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about an hundred pound
weight. 19:40 Then took they the body of Jesus, and wound it in
linen clothes with the spices, as the manner of the Jews is to bury.
19:41 Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden;
and in the garden a new sepulchre, wherein was never man yet laid.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
19:42  There  laid  they  Jesus  therefore  because  of  the  Jews'
preparation day; for the sepulchre was nigh at hand.
The Sabbath after the Crucifixion
Only one of the Gospels tells us what happened on the Sabbath after the
crucifixion, the Gospel of Matthew:
27:62 Now the next day, that followed the day of the preparation,
the chief priests and Pharisees came together unto Pilate, 27:63
Saying, Sir, we remember that that deceiver said, while he was yet
alive,  After three days I will rise again.  27:64 Command therefore
that the sepulchre be made sure until the third day, lest his disciples
come by night, and steal him away, and say unto the people, He is
risen from the dead: so the last error shall be worse than the first.
27:65 Pilate said unto them, Ye have a watch: go your way, make it as
sure as ye can. 27:66 So they went, and made the sepulchre sure,
sealing the stone, and setting a watch.
The  Gospel of Luke tells us only that the women who followed Jesus
waited during the Sabbath:
23:55  And  the  women  also,  which  came  with  him  from  Galilee,
followed after, and beheld the sepulchre, and how his body was
laid. 23:56 And they returned, and prepared spices and ointments;
and rested the sabbath day according to the commandment.
Yom Rishon after the Crucifixion
The  Gospel of Mark begins the story again after the Sabbath, quickly
telling us about the disappearance of Jesus from his sepulchre and the
appearance of a young man clothed in a long white garment, all witnessed
by Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome:
16:1 And when the sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the
mother of James, and Salome, had bought sweet spices, that they

JESUS † The Complete Biography
might come and anoint him. 16:2 And very early in the morning the
first day of the week, they came unto the sepulchre at the rising of
the sun. 16:3 And they said among themselves, Who shall roll us away
the stone from the door of the sepulchre?  16:4 And when they
looked, they saw that the stone was rolled away: for it was very
great. 16:5 And entering into the sepulchre, they saw a young man
sitting on the right side, clothed in a long white garment; and they
were affrighted. 16:6 And he saith unto them, Be not affrighted: Ye
seek Jesus of Nazareth, which was crucified: he is risen; he is not
here: behold the place where they laid him. 16:7 But go your way, tell
his disciples and Peter that he goeth before you into Galilee: there
shall ye see him, as he said unto you. 16:8 And they went out quickly,
and fled from the sepulchre; for they trembled and were amazed:
neither said they any thing to any man; for they were afraid.
The  Gospel of Matthew tells the story somewhat differently…with the
young man being identified as an angel, and the witnesses described as
Mary Magdalene and the other Mary, apparently Mary the mother of
James:
28:1 In the end of the sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first
day of the week, came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see
the sepulchre. 28:2 And, behold, there was a great earthquake: for
the angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came and rolled
back the stone from the door, and sat upon it. 28:3 His countenance
was like lightning, and his raiment white as snow: 28:4 And for fear
of him the keepers did shake, and became as dead men. 28:5 And
the angel answered and said unto the women,  Fear not ye: for I
know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified. 28:6 He is not here:
for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay.
28:7 And go quickly, and tell his disciples that he is risen from the
dead; and, behold, he goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye
see him: lo, I have told you.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The  Gospel of Luke differs even more…reporting two men in shining
garments rather than one angel:
24:1 Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning,
they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had
prepared, and certain others with them. 24:2 And they found the
stone rolled away from the sepulchre. 24:3 And they entered in, and
found not the body of the Lord Jesus. 24:4 And it came to pass, as
they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by
them in shining garments: 24:5 And as they were afraid, and bowed
down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the
living among the dead? 24:6 He is not here, but is risen: remember
how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, 24:7 Saying, The
Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be
crucified, and the third day rise again.
The Gospel of John begins with these simple words:
20:1 The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when
it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away
from the sepulchre.
Consider how naturalistic and normal this account is, in comparison with
the others—one of the women who stood by Jesus as he was crucified, and
who is reported to have followed his body to its internment and kept watch
there, having apparently gone home to sleep, returns in the very early
morning and finds the stone that was sealing the cave tomb rolled removed
from its place.  No earthquake unattested by other witnesses, no young
man in linen or angel or two men in shining garments…just an unsealed
gravesite.
Jesus appears to Mary Magdalene and other women
The Gospel of Mark announces that on the first day of the week (yom
rishon in Hebrew parlance, corresponding to Sunday) after the crucifixion,
Jesus rises from the dead and is seen by Mary Magdalene:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
16:9 Now when Jesus was risen early the first day of the week, he
appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seven
devils. 16:10 And she went and told them that had been with him, as
they mourned and wept. 16:11 And they, when they had heard that he
was alive, and had been seen of her, believed not.
The  Gospel  of  Matthew reports  that  Jesus  appeared  first  to  Mary
Magdalene and the other Mary, apparently Mary the mother of James:
28:8 And they departed quickly from the sepulchre with fear and
great joy; and did run to bring his disciples word. 28:9 And as they
went to tell his disciples, behold, Jesus met them, saying,  All hail.
And they came and held him by the feet, and worshipped him. 28:10
Then said Jesus unto them, Be not afraid: go tell my brethren that
they go into Galilee, and there shall they see me.
The Gospel of Luke indicates that the angels told Mary Magdalene, Mary
the mother of James and Salome about the resurrection of Jesus, and that
they conveyed this message to the male disciples:
24:8 And they remembered his words, 24:9 And returned from the
sepulchre, and told all these things unto the eleven, and to all the
rest.  24:10  It  was  Mary  Magdalene  and  Joanna,  and  Mary  the
mother of James, and other women that were with them, which told
these things unto the apostles. 24:11 And their words seemed to
them as idle tales, and they believed them not.
The Gospel of John tells the story somewhat differently, but in this case
also, the disciples do not believe Mary Magdalene, and Peter and John,
“the other disciple, whom Jesus loved” investigate for themselves and then
they believe:
20:2 Then she runneth, and cometh to Simon Peter, and to the
other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and saith unto them, They have
taken away the LORD out of the sepulchre, and we know not where

JESUS † The Complete Biography
they have laid him. 20:3 Peter therefore went forth, and that other
disciple,  and  came  to  the  sepulchre.  20:4  So  they  ran  both
together: and the other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to
the sepulchre. 20:5 And he stooping down, and looking in, saw the
linen clothes lying; yet went he not in. 20:6 Then cometh Simon
Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and seeth the linen
clothes lie, 20:7 And the napkin, that was about his head, not lying
with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself.
20:8 Then went in also that other disciple, which came first to the
sepulchre, and he saw, and believed. 20:9 For as yet they knew not
the scripture246, that he must rise again from the dead. 20:10 Then
the disciples went away again unto their own home.
The Gospel of John does not stop here though…it reports that, left alone
and weeping, first the two angels appear to her, and then suddenly the
risen Christ appears to Mary Magdalene:
20:11 But Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping: and as she
wept, she stooped down, and looked into the sepulchre, 20:12 And
seeth two angels in white sitting, the one at the head, and the other
at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain. 20:13 And they say
unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She saith unto them, Because
they have taken away my LORD, and I know not where they have
laid him. 20:14 And when she had thus said, she turned herself back,
and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus. 20:15 Jesus
saith unto her,  Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest thou?
She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou
have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will
take him away. 20:16 Jesus saith unto her, Mary. She turned herself,
and saith unto him,  Rabboni; which is to say, Master. 20:17 Jesus
saith unto her,  Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to my
Father: but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your God. 20:18 Mary
Magdalene  came  and  told  the  disciples  that  she  had  seen  the
LORD, and that he had spoken these things unto her.
Jesus appears to two male disciples
The  Gospel of Mark indicates that Jesus appeared to two of his male
disciples after appearing to Mary Magdalene:
16:11 And they, when they had heard that he was alive, and had been
seen of her, believed not. 16:12 After that he appeared in another
form unto two of them, as they walked, and went into the country.
16:13 And they went and told it unto the residue: neither believed
they them.
The  Gospel  of  Matthew reports  the  appearance  of  Jesus  to  Mary
Magdalene, but does not tell this story of an appearance to two male
disciples.  The  Gospel of Luke does not report that Jesus appeared to
Mary Magdalene, but it reports him appearing to two of his male disciples,
one of whom is called Cleopas and the second identified at the end of this
passage (24:34) was Simon Peter:
24:13 And, behold, two of them went that same day to a village called
Emmaus,  which  was  from  Jerusalem  about  threescore  furlongs.
24:14  And  they  talked  together  of  all  these  things  which  had
happened. 24:15 And it came to pass, that, while they communed
together and reasoned,  Jesus himself drew near, and went with
them. 24:16 But their eyes were holden that they should not know
him. 24:17 And he said unto them, What manner of communications
are these that ye have one to another, as ye walk, and are sad?
24:18 And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering
said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not
known the things which are come to pass there in these days? 24:19
And he  said  unto  them,  What things? And they said unto  him,
Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty in deed

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and word before God and all the people: 24:20 And how the chief
priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and
have crucified him. 24:21 But we trusted that it had been he which
should have redeemed Israel: and beside all this, to day is the third
day since these things were done. 24:22 Yea, and certain women
also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the
sepulchre; 24:23 And when they found not his body, they came,
saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he
was alive. 24:24 And certain of them which were with us went to the
sepulchre, and found it even so as the women had said: but him they
saw not. 24:25 Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart
to believe all that the prophets have spoken: 24:26 Ought not
Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory?
24:27 And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded
unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. 24:28
And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they went: and he made
as though he would have gone further. 24:29 But they constrained
him, saying, Abide with us: for it is toward evening, and the day is far
spent. And he went in to tarry with them. 24:30 And it came to pass,
as he sat at meat with them, he took bread, and blessed it, and
brake, and gave to them. 24:31  And their eyes were opened, and
they knew him; and he vanished out of their sight. 24:32 And they
said one to another,  Did not our heart burn within us, while he
talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures?
24:33 And they rose up the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem,
and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with
them, 24:34 Saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to
Simon.
The opposition does not rest

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The  Gospel of Matthew is the only Gospel which tells the story of an
opposition that does not rest after the burial of Jesus.  It begins with his
appearance to Mary Magdalene and the other Mary, and then indicates
that some of the watchmen who were assigned to guard the sepulchre of
Jesus reported his disappearance.  It indicates that there was a cover up,
that  money  changed  hands,  and  that  a  story  was  fabricated  that  the
disciples of Jesus “came by night, and stole him away” while they slept:
28:10 Then said Jesus unto them, Be not afraid: go tell my brethren
that they go into Galilee, and there shall they see me. 28:11 Now when
they were going, behold, some of the watch came into the city, and
shewed unto the chief priests all the things that were done. 28:12
And when they were assembled with the elders, and had taken
counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers, 28:13 Saying, Say
ye, His disciples came by night, and stole him away while we slept.
28:14 And if this come to the governor's ears, we will persuade him,
and secure you. 28:15 So they took the money, and did as they were
taught: and this saying is commonly reported among the Jews until
this day.
Jesus appears to his eleven disciples
The  Gospel of Mark reports that Jesus appeared to his eleven male
disciples after appearing to Mary Magdalene:
16:14 Afterward he appeared unto the eleven as they sat at meat,
and upbraided them with their unbelief and hardness of heart,
because they believed not them which had seen him after he was
risen. 16:15 And he said unto them,  Go ye into all the world, and
preach the gospel to every creature. 16:16 He that believeth and is
baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned.
16:17 And these signs shall follow them that believe; In my name shall
they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues; 16:18 They
shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall

JESUS † The Complete Biography
not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall
recover.
The Gospel of Matthew reports that Jesus appeared to his male disciples
after appearing to Mary Magdalene:
28:16  Then  the  eleven  disciples went  away  into  Galilee,  into  a
mountain where Jesus had appointed them. 28:17 And when  they
saw him, they worshipped him: but some doubted. 28:18 And Jesus
came and spake unto them, saying,  All power is given unto me in
heaven and in earth. 28:19 Go ye therefore, and teach all nations,
baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the
Holy Ghost: 28:20 Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I
have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the
end of the world. Amen.
The Gospel of Luke reports that Jesus appeared to his male disciples,
without specifying their number, after appearing to Mary Magdalene:
24:35 And they told what things were done in the way, and how he
was known of them in breaking of bread. 24:36 And as they thus
spake,  Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto
them,  Peace  be  unto  you. 24:37  But  they  were  terrified  and
affrighted, and supposed that they had seen a spirit. 24:38 And he
said unto them, Why are ye troubled? and why do thoughts arise in
your hearts? 24:39 Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself:
handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see
me have. 24:40 And when he had thus spoken, he shewed them his
hands and his feet. 24:41 And while they yet believed not for joy,
and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye here any meat? 24:42
And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish, and of an honeycomb.
24:43 And he took it, and did eat before them. 24:44 And he said
unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you, while I was

JESUS † The Complete Biography
yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in
the  law  of  Moses,  and  in  the  prophets,  and  in  the  psalms,
concerning me. 24:45 Then opened he their understanding, that
they might understand the scriptures, 24:46 And said unto them,
Thus it is written, and thus it behoved Christ to suffer, and to rise
from  the  dead  the  third  day:  24:47  And  that  repentance  and
remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations,
beginning at Jerusalem. 24:48 And ye are witnesses of these things.
24:49 And, behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you: but
tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from
on high. 24:50 And he led them out as far as to Bethany, and he
lifted up his hands, and blessed them.
The Gospel of John reports that Jesus appeared to his male disciples,
also without numbering them, after appearing to Mary Magdalene:
20:19 Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week,
when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled for
fear of the Jews, came Jesus and stood in the midst, and saith unto
them,  Peace be unto you. 20:20 And when he had so said, he
shewed unto them his hands and his side. Then were the disciples
glad, when they saw the LORD. 20:21 Then said Jesus to them
again, Peace be unto you: as my Father hath sent me, even so send I
you. 20:22 And when he had said this, he breathed on them, and
saith unto them,  Receive ye the Holy Ghost: 20:23 Whose soever
sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them; and whose soever sins ye
retain, they are retained.
Other appearances of Jesus
Only one Gospel tells of other appearances of Jesus to his disciples…the
Gospel of John.  Perhaps it was because the “beloved disciple” was not
one of the twelve who were now eleven, and hence he may have witnessed

JESUS † The Complete Biography
appearances where all the eleven were not present.  In any case, all of these
other appearances are cited here:
20:24 But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with
them when Jesus came. 20:25 The other disciples therefore said
unto him, We have seen the LORD. But he said unto them, Except I
shall see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into
the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not
believe. 20:26 And after eight days again his disciples were within,
and Thomas with them: then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and
stood in the midst, and said, Peace be unto you. 20:27 Then saith
he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands; and
reach  hither  thy  hand,  and  thrust  it  into  my  side:  and  be  not
faithless, but believing. 20:28 And Thomas answered and said unto
him, My LORD and my God. 20:29 Jesus saith unto him, Thomas,
because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed: blessed are they
that have not seen, and yet have believed. 20:30 And many other
signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not
written in this book: 20:31 But these are written, that ye might
believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; and that believing
ye might have life through his name. 21:1 After these things  Jesus
shewed himself again to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias; and on
this wise shewed he himself. 21:2 There were together Simon Peter,
and Thomas called Didymus, and Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and
the sons of Zebedee, and two other of his disciples. 21:3 Simon
Peter saith unto them, I go a fishing. They say unto him, We also go
with thee. They went forth, and entered into a ship immediately; and
that night they caught nothing. 21:4 But when the morning was now
come, Jesus stood on the shore: but the disciples knew not that it
was Jesus. 21:5 Then Jesus saith unto them, Children, have ye any
meat? They answered him, No. 21:6 And he said unto them, Cast the
net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find.  They cast

JESUS † The Complete Biography
therefore, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude
of fishes. 21:7 Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved saith unto
Peter, It is the Lord. Now when Simon Peter heard that it was the
Lord, he girt his fisher's coat unto him, (for he was naked,) and did
cast himself into the sea. 21:8 And the other disciples came in a little
ship; (for they were not far from land, but as it were two hundred
cubits,) dragging the net with fishes. 21:9 As soon then as they were
come to land, they saw a fire of coals there, and fish laid thereon,
and bread. 21:10 Jesus saith unto them, Bring of the fish which ye
have now caught. 21:11 Simon Peter went up, and drew the net to land
full of great fishes, an hundred and fifty and three: and for all there
were so many, yet was not the net broken. 21:12 Jesus saith unto
them, Come and dine. And none of the disciples durst ask him, Who
art thou? knowing that it was the Lord. 21:13 Jesus then cometh, and
taketh bread, and giveth them, and fish likewise. 21:14 This is now the
third time that Jesus shewed himself to his disciples, after that he
was risen from the dead. 21:15 So when they had dined, Jesus saith
to Simon Peter,  Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than
these?  He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee.
He saith unto him,  Feed my lambs. 21:16 He saith to him again the
second time,  Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto
him,  Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him,
Feed my sheep. 21:17 He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of
Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him
the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou
knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto
him, Feed my sheep. 21:18 Verily, verily, I say unto thee, When thou
wast  young,  thou  girdest  thyself,  and  walkedst  whither  thou
wouldest: but when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy
hands, and another shall gird thee, and carry thee whither thou
wouldest  not. 21:19  This spake  he,  signifying  by what  death he

JESUS † The Complete Biography
should glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he saith unto
him, Follow me. 21:20 Then Peter, turning about, seeth the disciple
whom Jesus loved  following; which also leaned on his breast at
supper, and said, Lord, which is he that betrayeth thee? 21:21 Peter
seeing him saith to Jesus, Lord, and what shall this man do? 21:22
Jesus saith unto him, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to
thee? follow thou me. 21:23 Then went this saying abroad among the
brethren, that that disciple should not die: yet Jesus said not unto
him, He shall not die; but, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that
to thee? 21:24 This is the disciple which testifieth of these things,
and wrote these things: and we know that his testimony is true. 21:25
And there are also many other things which Jesus did, the which, if
they should be written every one, I suppose that even the world
itself could not contain the books that should be written. Amen.
The Acts of the Apostles indicates that Jesus was seen by his apostles
for 40 days after his resurrection:
1:2 Until the day in which he was taken up, after that he through the
Holy Ghost had given commandments unto the apostles whom he
had chosen: 1:3 To whom also he shewed himself alive after his
passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days,
and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God: 1:4
And, being assembled together with them, commanded them that
they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of
the Father, which, saith he, ye have heard of me. 1:5 For John truly
baptized with water; but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost
not many days hence. 1:6 When they therefore were come together,
they asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again
the kingdom to Israel? 1:7 And he said unto them, It is not for you to
know the times or the seasons, which the Father hath put in his own
power. 1:8 But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is

JESUS † The Complete Biography
come  upon  you:  and  ye  shall  be  witnesses  unto  me  both  in
Jerusalem,  and  in  all  Judaea,  and  in  Samaria,  and  unto  the
uttermost part of the earth. 1:9 And when he had spoken these
things, while they beheld, he was taken up; and a cloud received him
out of their sight. 1:10 And while they looked stedfastly toward
heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white
apparel; 1:11 Which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing
up into heaven? this same Jesus, which is taken up from you into
heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into
heaven.  1:12 Then returned they unto Jerusalem from the mount
called Olivet, which is from Jerusalem a sabbath day's journey. 1:10
And while they looked stedfastly toward heaven as he went up,
behold, two men stood by them in white apparel; 1:11 Which also said,
Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? this same
Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like
manner as ye have seen him go into heaven.
Ascension of Jesus
The Gospel of Mark reports the ascension of Jesus:
16:19 So then after the Lord had spoken unto them, he was received
up into heaven, and sat on the right hand of God.
The Gospel of Luke likewise refers to the ascension of Jesus:
24:51 And it came to pass, while he blessed them, he was parted
from them, and carried up into heaven. 24:52 And they worshipped
him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy: 24:53 And were
continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen.
The Acts of the Apostles likewise attests to the ascension of Jesus:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
1:1 The former treatise have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus
began both to do and teach, 1:2 Until the day in which he was taken
up...
1:9 And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was
taken up; and a cloud received him out of their sight. 1:10 And while
they looked stedfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold, two
men stood by them in white apparel; 1:11 Which also said, Ye men of
Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? this same Jesus, which
is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye
have  seen  him  go  into  heaven.  1:12  Then  returned  they  unto
Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is from Jerusalem a
sabbath day's journey. 1:10 And while they looked stedfastly toward
heaven  as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white
apparel; 1:11 Which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing
up into heaven? this same Jesus, which is taken up from you into
heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into
heaven.
The ascension of Jesus has direct parallels in the Old Testament…it is
neither unique to Jesus nor represent a borrowing from Greek or some
other Middle Eastern religious tradition.  The story of Enoch, son of Cain,
in the Book of Genesis ends;
5:24 And Enoch walked with God: and he was not; for God took
him.
The Epistle to the Hebrews refers to that ascension of Enoch:
11:5 By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death; and
was not found, because God had translated him: for before his
translation he had this testimony, that he pleased God.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Much more familiar, to Jews and Christians alike, is the ascension of
Elijah, as told in Second Kings:
2:11  And it came to pass, as they still went on, and talked, that,
behold, there appeared a chariot of fire, and horses of fire, and
parted them both asunder; and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into
heaven. 2:12  And Elisha saw it, and he cried, My father, my father,
the chariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof. And he saw him no
more: and he took hold of his own clothes, and rent them in two
pieces.
Hence, the ascension of Jesus is not unique to the New Testament, and the
Jewish  understanding  (midrash)  of  such  an  extraordinary  event  is
germaine to our present comprehension of what the disciples witnessed,
what it meant to them, and what it can mean for us.
Those to whom he appears or speaks
The Acts of the Apostles report sightings of Jesus after his ascension.
The first is Stephen:
7:55 But he, being full of the Holy Ghost, looked up stedfastly into
heaven, and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing on the right
hand of God, 7:56 And said, Behold, I see the heavens opened, and
the Son of man standing on the right hand of God. 7:57 Then they
cried out with a loud voice, and stopped their ears, and ran upon
him with one accord, 7:58 And cast him out of the city, and stoned
him: and the witnesses laid down their clothes at a young man's feet,
whose name was Saul. 7:59 And they stoned Stephen, calling upon
God, and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. 7:60 And he kneeled
down, and cried with a loud voice,  Lord, lay not this sin to their
charge. And when he had said this, he fell asleep. 8:1 And Saul was
consenting unto his death. And at that time there was a great
persecution against the church which was at Jerusalem; and they
were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judaea and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Samaria, except the apostles. 8:2 And devout men carried Stephen
to his burial, and made great lamentation over him.
The second of these sightings is by Saul, the very persecutor of Stephen,
who was renamed Paul:
9:3 And as he journeyed, he came near Damascus: and suddenly
there shined round about him a light from heaven: 9:4 And he fell to
the  earth,  and  heard  a  voice  saying  unto  him,  Saul,  Saul,  why
persecutest thou me? 9:5 And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the
Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest: it is hard for thee to
kick against the pricks. 9:6 And he trembling and astonished said,
Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? And the Lord said unto him,
Arise, and go into the city, and it shall be told thee what thou must
do. 9:7 And the men which journeyed with him stood speechless,
hearing a voice, but seeing no man. 9:8 And Saul arose from the
earth; and when his eyes were opened, he saw no man: but they led
him by the hand, and brought him into Damascus. 9:9 And he was
three days without sight, and neither did eat nor drink.
The third sighting is by Ananias, who was instructed to convey a message
to Saul by Jesus:
9:10 And there was a certain disciple at Damascus, named Ananias;
and to him said the Lord in a vision, Ananias. And he said, Behold, I
am here, Lord. 9:11 And the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go into
the street which is called Straight, and enquire in the house of
Judas for one called Saul, of Tarsus: for, behold, he prayeth, 9:12
And hath seen in a vision a man named Ananias coming in, and
putting his hand on him, that he might receive his sight. 9:13 Then
Ananias answered,  Lord, I have heard by many of this man, how
much evil he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem: 9:14 And here he
hath authority from the chief priests to bind all that call on thy

JESUS † The Complete Biography
name. 9:15 But the Lord said unto him,  Go thy way: for he is a
chosen vessel unto me, to bear my name before the Gentiles, and
kings, and the children of Israel: 9:16 For I will shew him how great
things he must suffer for my name's sake. 9:17 And Ananias went his
way, and entered into the house; and putting his hands on him said,
Brother Saul, the Lord, even Jesus, that appeared unto thee in the
way as thou camest, hath sent me, that thou mightest receive thy
sight, and be filled with the Holy Ghost. 9:18 And immediately there
fell from his eyes as it had been scales: and he received sight
forthwith, and arose, and was baptized.
Later in the same Acts of the Apostles, these two stories are told once
again, this time by Saul, now called Paul:
22:6 And it came to pass, that, as I made my journey, and was come
nigh  unto  Damascus  about  noon,  suddenly  there  shone  from
heaven a great light round about me. 22:7 And I fell unto the ground,
and heard a voice saying unto me, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou
me? 22:8 And I answered, Who art thou, Lord? And he said unto me,
I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom thou persecutest. 22:9 And they that
were with me saw indeed the light, and were afraid; but they heard
not the voice of him that spake to me. 22:10 And I said, What shall I
do,  LORD? And  the  Lord  said  unto  me,  Arise,  and  go  into
Damascus; and there it shall be told thee of all things which are
appointed for thee to do.  22:11 And when I could not see for the
glory of that light, being led by the hand of them that were with me, I
came  into  Damascus.  22:12  And  one  Ananias,  a  devout  man
according to the law, having a good report of all the Jews which
dwelt there, 22:13 Came unto me, and stood, and said unto me,
Brother Saul, receive thy sight. And the same hour I looked up upon
him. 22:14 And he said, The God of our fathers hath chosen thee,
that thou shouldest know his will, and see that Just One, and

JESUS † The Complete Biography
shouldest hear the voice of his mouth. 22:15 For thou shalt be his
witness unto all men of what thou hast seen and heard. 22:16 And
now why tarriest thou? arise, and be baptized, and wash away thy
sins, calling on the name of the Lord. 22:17 And it came to pass, that,
when I was come again to Jerusalem, even while I prayed in the
temple, I was in a trance; 22:18 And saw him saying unto me, Make
haste, and get thee quickly out of Jerusalem: for they will not
receive thy testimony concerning me. 22:19 And I said,  Lord, they
know that I imprisoned and beat in every synagogue them that
believed on thee: 22:20 And when the blood of thy martyr Stephen
was shed, I also was standing by, and consenting unto his death,
and kept the raiment of them that slew him. 22:21 And he said unto
me, Depart: for I will send thee far hence unto the Gentiles.
According  to  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles,  Paul  told  the  story  of  his
conversion to King Agrippa247:
26:12  Whereupon  as  I  went  to  Damascus  with  authority  and
commission from the chief priests, 26:13 At midday, O king, I saw in
the  way  a light from heaven,  above  the  brightness of the sun,
shining round about me and them which journeyed with me. 26:14
And when we were all fallen to the earth, I heard a voice speaking
unto  me,  and  saying  in  the  Hebrew  tongue,  Saul,  Saul,  why
persecutest thou me? it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.
26:15 And I said, Who art thou, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus whom
thou persecutest. 26:16 But rise, and stand upon thy feet: for I have
appeared unto thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a
witness both of these things which thou hast seen, and of those
things in the which I will appear unto thee; 26:17 Delivering thee from
the people, and from the Gentiles, unto whom now I send thee, 26:18
To open their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light, and
from  the  power  of  Satan  unto  God,  that  they  may  receive

JESUS † The Complete Biography
forgiveness of sins, and inheritance among them which are sanctified
by faith that is in me. 26:19 Whereupon, O king Agrippa, I was not
disobedient unto the heavenly vision: 26:20 But shewed first unto
them of Damascus, and at Jerusalem, and throughout all the coasts
of Judaea, and then to the Gentiles, that they should repent and
turn to God, and do works meet for repentance.
Proclamation of the Gospel by the disciples
The Gospel of Mark indicates that after the ascension of Jesus, his male
disciples went everywhere preaching the Gospel:
16:20 And they went forth, and preached every where, the Lord
working with them, and confirming the word with signs following.
Amen.
Most of the  Acts of the Apostles bespeaks of the proclamation of the
Gospel by the disciples of Jesus, and the newly converted who joined them
in  this  proclamation,  and  in  healings  and  other  miracles,  taking  the
message of Jesus to the Gentiles.
Jesus addresses the Jewish sectarians
Jesus speaks to all of the Jewish sectarians of his time, as well as to the
Greeks and Romans.   Among these sectarians, the most “extreme”, that is,
the most unconventional and radical were undoubtedly the Zealots, who
advocated armed overthrow of Roman governors and their puppet Roman
influenced Jewish ethnarchs and tetrarchs, and the Essenes, who lived
separately from the rest of the population, whether in cities like Damascus
or in the Judaean desert as in Qumran.  To the Zealots, of which one of his
followers was formerly an adherent (Acts 1:13), he speaks, as recorded in
the Gospel of Matthew:
26:51 And, behold, one of them which were with Jesus stretched out
his hand, and drew his sword, and struck a servant of the high
priest's, and smote off his ear.  26:52 Then said Jesus unto him, Put
up again thy sword into his place: for all they that take the sword
shall perish with the sword.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
This same story is told in the Gospel of John, and there the zealot who
drew the sword is identified as Peter:
18:10 Then Simon Peter having a sword drew it, and smote the high
priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant's name was
Malchus.  18:11 Then said Jesus unto Peter, Put up thy sword into
the sheath: the cup which my Father hath given me, shall I not drink
it?
Jesus  did  not  tolerate  the  worldly  attitude  that  breeds  violence.   He
chastised this same hot-headed Peter when his disciple dared to rebuke
him, as told in the Gospels of Matthew and Mark.  When Jesus confided in
his disciples that he would be martyred, Peter objected, first in the Gospel
of Matthew:
16:21 From that time forth began Jesus to shew unto his disciples,
how that he must go unto Jerusalem, and suffer many things of the
elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised
again the third day.  16:22 Then Peter took him, and began to
rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord: this shall not be unto
thee.  16:23 But he turned, and said unto Peter, Get thee behind me,
Satan: thou art an offence unto me: for thou savourest not the
things that be of God, but those that be of men.  16:24 Then said
Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny
himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.  16:25 For whosoever
will save his life shall lose it: and whosoever will lose his life for my
sake shall find it.
Now in the Gospel of Mark:
8:31 And he began to teach them, that the Son of man must suffer
many things, and be rejected of the elders, and of the chief priests,
and scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again.  8:32 And
he spake that saying openly. And Peter took him, and began to

JESUS † The Complete Biography
rebuke him.  8:33 But when he had turned about and looked on his
disciples, he rebuked Peter, saying, Get thee behind me, Satan: for
thou savourest not the things that be of God, but the things that be
of men.  8:34 And when he had called the people unto him with his
disciples also, he said unto them, Whosoever will come after me, let
him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.
Some  commentators  have  suggested  that  John  was  influenced  by  the
Essenes or that he was an Essene himself.  But John preached openly to
the entire Jewish population, and the Essenes were reportedly pietist and
separatist in their orientation.  They counted themselves the chosen ones
of God, the people of light, and those who were not of their number they
counted the active or default chosen ones of Satan, the people of darkness.
A thorough study of their complex doctrines, which is now possible given
the  availability  of  the  Dead  Sea  Scrolls  which  include  much  of  their
sectarian literature, makes it possible to differentiate the teachings of John
from those of John.  While Essenes may have been drawn to his teaching
and to his personal example of detachment from all material things (as in
his being dressed in camel skin and eating wild honey and living in the
wilderness)  and  fearless  espousal  of  the  truth  regardless  of  the
consequences (in his condemnation of the marital irregularities of Herod
Antipas, resulting in his imprisonment and execution), they do not record
him as being one of them in the extant literature.   It is pointed out that
there  are  many  years  of  Jesus’  life  which  are  unaccounted  for,  and
suggested that he could have spent them in the company of Essenes.  The
non-canonical Gospels indicate that Jesus was residing in Nazareth with
his family until the passing of Joseph, and there is no record of him leaving
Nazareth, apart from his annual visits with the family to Jerusalem for the
feast of Passover, until he went to be baptized by John.

Jesus makes one allusion in one discourse reported in the  Gospel of
Matthew which may have been to the Essenes:
19:9 And I say unto you, Whosoever shall put away his wife, except it
be for fornication, and shall marry another, committeth adultery:
and whoso marrieth her which is put away doth commit adultery.
19:10 His disciples say unto him, If the case of the man be so with his
wife, it is not good to marry.  19:11 But he said unto them, All men
cannot receive this saying, save they to whom it is given.  19:12 For
there are some eunuchs, which were so born from their mother's

JESUS † The Complete Biography
womb: and there are some eunuchs, which were made eunuchs of
men: and there be eunuchs, which have made themselves eunuchs
for the kingdom of heaven's sake. He that is able to receive it, let
him receive it.
What is particularly fascinating about this discourse is that Jesus does not
condemn the eunuch…but in the Judaism of the Talmud, the eunuch [sari]
is unclean and cannot approach the Temple.  Is Jesus innovating here?
No, he is reiterating the teaching in the Book of Isaiah:
56:1 Thus saith the LORD, Keep ye judgment, and do justice: for my
salvation is near to come, and my righteousness to be revealed.  56:2
Blessed is the man that doeth this, and the son of man that layeth
hold on it; that keepeth the sabbath from polluting it, and keepeth
his hand from doing any evil. 56:3 Neither let the son of the stranger,
that hath joined himself to the LORD, speak, saying, The LORD
hath utterly separated me from his people: neither let the eunuch
say, Behold, I am a dry tree.  56:4 For thus saith the LORD unto the
eunuchs that keep my sabbaths, and choose the things that please
me, and take hold of my covenant; 56:5 Even unto them will I give in
mine house and within my walls a place and a name better than of
sons and of daughters: I will give them an everlasting name, that shall
not  be  cut  off.   56:6  Also  the  sons  of  the  stranger,  that  join
themselves to the LORD, to serve him, and to love the name of the
LORD, to be his servants, every one that keepeth the sabbath from
polluting it, and taketh hold of my covenant; 56:7 Even them will I
bring to my holy mountain, and make them joyful in my house of
prayer: their burnt offerings and their sacrifices shall be accepted
upon mine altar; for mine house shall be called an house of prayer
for all people. 56:8 The Lord GOD, which gathereth the outcasts of
Israel saith,  Yet will I gather others to him, beside those that are
gathered unto him.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Furthermore, Jesus practiced celibacy himself, as did John the Baptist –for
if either one had been married, some witness would have testified to it—
and  in  so  doing  the  two  of  them  were  not  unique  among  Israelites.
According  to  the  discoveries  in  the  caves  of  Qumran,  and  in  the
testimonies of Philo and Josephus, many Essenes and similar communities
of self-described Songs of Light followed a strict practice of celibacy, and
hence their numbers were few and their progeny nonexistent.   As for
Apollonius, he also adopted celibacy248:
And as  Pythagoras was commended for his saying that "a man
should have no intercourse except with his own wife," he declared
that this was intended by Pythagoras for others than himself, for
that he was resolved never to wed nor have any connexion whatever
with  women.  In  laying  such  restraint  on  himself  he  surpassed
Sophocles, who only said that in reaching old age he had escaped
from a mad and cruel master; but Apollonius by dint of virtue and
temperance never even in his youth was so overcome. While still a
mere stripling, in full enjoyment of his bodily vigor, he mastered and
gained control of the maddening passion.[3]
Jesus was thus reiterating the universalism of Isaiah and Micah, which is
also expressed in this famous passage, virtually identical in the two books:
2:2 And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of
the LORD's house shall be established in the top of the mountains,
and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it.
2:3 And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to
the mountain of the LORD, to the house of the God of Jacob; and
he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for out of
Zion  shall  go  forth  the  law,  and  the  word  of  the  LORD  from
Jerusalem.  2:4 And he shall judge among the nations, and shall
rebuke  many  people:  and  they  shall  beat  their  swords  into
plowshares, and their spears into pruninghooks: nation shall not lift
up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more.
4:1 But in the last days it shall come to pass, that the mountain of
the house of the LORD shall be established in the top of the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and people shall
flow unto it.  4:2 And many nations shall come, and say, Come, and
let us go up to the mountain of the LORD, and to the house of the
God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his
paths: for the law shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the LORD
from Jerusalem.  4:3 And he shall judge among many people, and
rebuke strong nations afar off; and they shall beat their swords into
plowshares, and their spears into pruninghooks: nation shall not lift
up a sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more.
To return to our topic, Jesus does not condemn the eunuch…but is it really
his intention to speak about eunuchs in this discourse?  After all, how
many men are eunuchs “which were so born from their mother’s womb”?
And how many are there “which were made eunuchs of men”?  And finally,
what men “have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven’s
sake”?  And why would Jesus talk about eunuchs in any case when he has
been asked by Pharisees about the grounds for divorce?  Jesus begins his
response by stating that any man who “shall put away his wife, except it be
for fornication, and shall marry another, committeth adultery”.  The only
grounds for divorce then are that the spouse has committed fornication,
that is, has engaged in sexual relations with someone other than their
partner.   If  the  husband  were  to  discover  that  his  wife  committed
fornication prior to their marriage, or during their marriage, he would be
permitted to divorce her.  The same we may assume would be the case for
the wife if her husband had acted in this manner.  Marriage, for Jesus, is
exclusively  monogamous.   This  meant  that  no  man  should  marry  a
divorced woman, because the only legitimate grounds for divorce were
sexual infidelity and so marriage to a divorced woman was a kind of
adultery.   Jesus’  disciples  comment  that  if  this  degree  of  chastity  is
required in marriage, “it is not good to marry.”  Obviously they were not
pleased to hear that they would be held to such strict account for their
sexual behavior.   Jesus then says that “all men cannot receive this saying,
save they to whom it is given.”  Then he sets forth the only alternative to
monogamy…and it is celibacy.  That celibacy is so complete that the one
who is celibate is called a eunuch.  If we cannot be true to one partner for
life, then we should remain unmarried.  Some will be celibate because they
are born celibate, and while Jesus does not describe himself as such, he
appears to have all the qualifications of the celibate from birth.  Some will
be made celibates by their experiences with other human beings—and here
we may find those who are not attracted to an appropriate partner, those
who have been abused as children or youths or adults,  as well as those
who have engaged in fornication and therefore disqualified from marrying

JESUS † The Complete Biography
because any marriage with them would be adultery.  Who then are those
“which have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven’s sake”?
Jesus is not talking to Greeks or Romans, in which case he might have
been making reference to the eunuchs who served the temples of the
various pagan gods and goddesses.   Popular at one time in certain areas of
the Roman Empire, but probably not during the lifetime of Jesus, was the
cult of the Magna Mater (Great Mother), the priests of which were called
Galli.  They were eunuchs and they were consecrated to the service of the
goddess.  But Jesus was talking with Pharisees and besides them a mixed
crowd of Jews.  What did they know of eunuchs dedicated to the Great
Mother?  Probably nothing.  There was one sect of Jews that encouraged
both men and women to be celibates in order to more fully consecrate
themselves  to  the  service  of God…the Essenes.   The Essenes  lived  in
separate  communities  and  in  enclaves  in  Damascus  and  other  cities
alongside other Jews.  They were married and celibate.  But unlike the
Pharisees and Sadducees who expected all of their fold to be married and
to bring forth many children, the Essenes honored those who did not
marry  and  eschewed  sexual  liasons  of  all  kinds  “for  the  kingdom  of
heaven’s sake.”  Jesus did not disapprove of celibacy, in fact he said, “He
that is able to receive it, let him receive it.”  The celibate path was for those
who could tread it, and not for those who could not.
Paul chose the celibate path, and when asked about it he wrote, in his First
Epistle to the Corinthians:
7:7 For I would that all men were even as I myself. But every man hath
his proper gift of God, one after this manner, and another after
that.  7:8 I say therefore to the unmarried and widows, It is good for
them if they abide even as I.
For Paul, it was better that everyone remain celibate, but those who could
not remain celibate are advised by him to marry and not to divorce:
7:9 But if they cannot contain, let them marry: for it is better to
marry than to burn.  7:10 And unto the married I command, yet not I,
but the Lord, Let not the wife depart from her husband: 7:11 But and
if she depart, let her remain unmarried or be reconciled to her
husband: and let not the husband put away his wife.  7:12 But to the
rest speak I, not the Lord: If any brother hath a wife that believeth
not, and she be pleased to dwell with him, let him not put her away.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
7:13 And the woman which hath an husband that believeth not, and if
he be pleased to dwell with her, let her not leave him.  7:14 For the
unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving
wife is sanctified by the husband: else were your children unclean;
but now are they holy.  7:15 But if the unbelieving depart, let him
depart. A brother or a sister is not under bondage in such cases:
but God hath called us to peace.  7:16 For what knowest thou, O
wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband? or how knowest thou, O
man, whether thou shalt save thy wife?
But Paul does not insist that Christians be celibate, nor that they marry
believing partners, nor does he approve of them divorcing unbelieving
partners.  The choice of whether they marry or not is left to them:
7:17 But as God hath distributed to every man, as the Lord hath
called every one, so let him walk. And so ordain I in all churches.
This teaching of Paul exactly reiterates what Jesus taught in the Gospel of
Matthew:
19:11 But he said unto them, All men cannot receive this saying, save
they to whom it is given.  19:12 For there are some eunuchs, which
were  so  born  from  their  mother's  womb:  and  there  are  some
eunuchs, which were made eunuchs of men: and there be eunuchs,
which have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's
sake.  He that is able to receive it, let him receive it.
It is therefore a myth that Jesus endorsed celibacy as the preferred lifestyle
for his followers, and it is a myth that Paul did not believe marriage to be
as Christian a response to the call of God as celibacy.  “But every man hath
his proper gift of God, one after this manner, and another after that…But
as God hath distributed to every man, as the Lord hath called every one, so
let him walk.”  Jesus used many physical metaphors in order to convey
spiritual teachings.  In this case it is evident that he conjured up the image
of the eunuch in order to honor celibacy in a manner that would stick in
the minds and hearts of his audience.  And, as an aside, he was honoring
the Essenes who had taken and lived by a vow of chastity.  But we must
remember that Jesus was more gracious and merciful to those who were

JESUS † The Complete Biography
active sinners and then repented of their sins than he was towards those
who sought to walk the straight and narrow and considered themselves
superior to those who did not.  We will return to them later.
To  the  Sadducees  both  John  and  Jesus  speak.   In  the  Gospel  of
Matthew, John is baptizing and he speaks to a group of Sadducees and
Pharisees:
3:7 But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees come to
his baptism, he said unto them, O generation of vipers, who hath
warned  you  to  flee  from  the  wrath  to  come?  3:8  Bring  forth
therefore fruits meet for repentance: 3:9 And think not to say within
yourselves, We have Abraham to our father: for I say unto you, that
God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham.  3:10
And now also the axe is laid unto the root of the trees: therefore
every tree which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and
cast  into  the  fire.   3:11  I  indeed  baptize  you  with  water  unto
repentance.
In another encounter, in Galilee, with scribes and Pharisees, as recorded in
the Gospel of Matthew:
15:1  Then  came  to  Jesus  scribes  and  Pharisees,  which  were  of
Jerusalem, saying,  15:2 Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition
of the elders?  For they wash not their hands when they eat bread.
The same event is reported in the Gospel of Mark, in more detail:
7:1  Then came together unto him the Pharisees, and certain of the
scribes, which came from Jerusalem. 7:2  And when they saw some
of his disciples eat bread with defiled, that is to say, with unwashen,
hands, they found fault. 7:3  For the Pharisees, and all the Jews,
except they wash their hands oft, eat not, holding the tradition of
the elders. 7:4  And when they come from the market, except they
wash, they eat not. And many other things there be, which they

JESUS † The Complete Biography
have received to hold, as the washing of cups, and pots, brasen
vessels, and of tables. 7:5  Then the Pharisees and scribes asked
him,  Why walk not thy disciples according to the tradition of the
elders, but eat bread with unwashen hands?
Ritual washing in Judaism, or ablution, takes two main forms. A tevilah
(יָלהבְט ְטִִ) is a full body immersion in a mikveh, and a netilat yadayim which is
the washing of the hands with a cup.  The Hebrew Bible includes various
regulations about bathing, as in Leviticus249:
15:11 And whoever he that hath issue250 touches without having rinsed
his hands in water, he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in
water, and be unclean until the evening.
The other kind of ablution is hand-washing, as in Psalms:
26:6  I will wash my hands in innocence; so will I compass Thine altar,
O LORD.
Both traditional religious and secular scholars agree that ritual washing in
Judaism was derived by the Rabbis of the Talmud from a more extensive
set of ritual washing and purity practices in use in the days of the Temple
in Jerusalem, based on various verses in the Hebrew Bible and received
traditions.  There  is  disagreement,  however,  about  the  origins  and
meanings of these practices. This article251 first describes these practices as
they exist in contemporary traditional Judaism, then discusses various
alternative perspectives on their nature, origins, and meaning.
Traditional Judaism requires certain types of ritual washing. Some of these
types do not require a special ritual body of water (and can be done with
tap water):
1.
Netilat Yadayim Shacharit ("Raising [after ritually washing] the
hands of the morning"), when getting up in the morning after a full
night's sleep, or even after a lengthy nap, there is the custom to
wash one's hands ritually by pouring a large cup of water over
one's  hands,  alternating  three  times.  In  the  custom  of  some
communities, it is also done without a blessing after engaging in
sexual intercourse or other seminal emission.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
2.
Netilat yadayim ("Raising [after ritually washing] the hands"),
also known as  Mayim Rishonim. which is done with a blessing,
prior to eating any bread with a meal, and done without a blessing,
after touching objects that convey  tumah (such as one's private
parts, leather shoes, or a ritually unclean animal or insect or after
paying a visit to a cemetary).[3]
3.
Mayim acharonim ("After-waters") a law or custom of ritually
washing off one's fingers after a meal, to protect oneself from
touching the eyes with hazardous residue.[4]
4.
During a Passover Seder, a third washing of netilat yadayim[5] is
performed without any blessing being recited, before the eating of
a vegetable, called karpas, prior to the main meal.
The  School  of  Hillel  and  the  School  of  Shammai  ruled  differently
pertaining to washing before meals.  The School of Shammai said that the
hands must be washed before filling the cup of wine. The School of Hillel
ruled the washing must be done just before you touching the bread. The
Talmud explains this in Berachot 52A and B, and since the lives of Hillel
and  Shammai  overlapped  with  that  of  Jesus,  it  appears  from  the
disapproval reproach of the scribes and Pharisees recorded in these two
Gospels that the Hillelian form of this tradition was already regarded as
binding.252
In  his  next  recorded  encounter  with  Pharisees  and  Sadducees,  Jesus
addresses them as follows in the Gospel of Matthew:
16:1 The Pharisees also with the Sadducees came, and tempting
desired him that he would shew them a sign from heaven. 16:2 He
answered and said unto them, When it is evening, ye say, It will be
fair weather: for the sky is red.  16:3 And in the morning, It will be
foul  weather  to  day:  for  the  sky  is  red  and  lowering.  O  ye
hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky; but can ye not
discern  the  signs  of  the  times?  16:4  A  wicked  and  adulterous
generation seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given
unto it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas. And he left them, and
departed.  16:5 And when his disciples were come to the other side,
they had forgotten to take bread.  16:6 Then Jesus said unto them,
Take heed and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Sadducees. 16:7 And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is
because we have taken no bread. 16:8 Which when Jesus perceived,
he  said  unto  them,  O  ye  of  little  faith,  why  reason  ye  among
yourselves, because ye have brought no bread? 16:9 Do ye not yet
understand, neither remember the five loaves of the five thousand,
and how many baskets ye took up? 16:10 Neither the seven loaves of
the four thousand, and how many baskets ye took up? 16:11 How is it
that ye do not understand that I spake it not to you concerning
bread, that ye should beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of
the Sadducees? 16:12 Then understood they how that he bade them
not beware of the leaven of bread, but of the doctrine of the
Pharisees and of the Sadducees.
In  his  second  recorded  encounter  with  Pharisees  and  Sadducees,  the
Sadducees address him and he responds:
22:23 The same day came to him the Sadducees, which say that
there  is  no  resurrection,  and  asked  him,  22:24  Saying,  Master,
Moses said, If a man die, having no children, his brother shall marry
his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother.  22:25 Now there were
with us seven brethren: and the first, when he had married a wife,
deceased, and, having no issue, left his wife unto his brother: 22:26
Likewise the second also, and the third, unto the seventh.  22:27
And  last  of  all  the  woman  died  also.   22:28  Therefore  in  the
resurrection whose wife shall she be of the seven? for they all had
her.  22:29 Jesus answered and said unto them,  Ye do err, not
knowing the scriptures, nor the power of God. 22:30 For in the
resurrection they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are as
the angels of God in heaven. 22:31 But as touching the resurrection
of the dead, have ye not read that which was spoken unto you by
God, saying, 22:32 I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac,
and the God of Jacob? God is not the God of the dead, but of the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
living. 22:33  And  when  the  multitude  heard  this,  they  were
astonished at his doctrine. 22:34 But when the Pharisees had heard
that he had put the Sadducees to silence, they were gathered
together.
The Gospel of Mark tells the same story, with some variations:
12:18 Then come unto him the Sadducees, which say there is no
resurrection; and they asked him, saying, 12:19 Master, Moses wrote
unto us, If a man's brother die, and leave his wife behind him, and
leave no children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise up
seed unto his brother. 12:20 Now there were seven brethren: and the
first took a wife, and dying left no seed. 12:21 And the second took
her, and died, neither left he any seed: and the third likewise. 12:22
And the seven had her, and left no seed: last of all the woman died
also. 12:23 In the resurrection therefore, when they shall rise, whose
wife shall she be of them? for the seven had her to wife. 12:24 And
Jesus answering said unto them, Do ye not therefore err, because
ye know not the scriptures, neither the power of God? 12:25 For
when they shall rise from the dead, they neither marry, nor are given
in marriage; but are as the angels which are in heaven. 12:26 And as
touching the dead, that they rise: have ye not read in the book of
Moses, how in the bush God spake unto him, saying, I am the God of
Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? 12:27 He is
not the God of the dead, but the God of the living: ye therefore do
greatly err.
Addressing the Pharisees who asked him a question, Jesus responded in
the Gospel of Mark:
12:28 And one of the scribes came, and having heard them reasoning
together, and perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him,
Which is the first commandment of all?  12:29 And Jesus answered

JESUS † The Complete Biography
him, The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel; The Lord
our God is one Lord: 12:30 And thou shalt love the Lord thy God
with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with
all thy strength: this is the first commandment. 12:31 And the second
is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. There
is none other commandment greater than these. 12:32 And the scribe
said unto him, Well, Master, thou hast said the truth: for there is one
God; and there is none other but he: 12:33 And to love him with all
the heart, and with all the understanding, and with all the soul, and
with all the strength, and to love his neighbour as himself, is more
than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. 12:34 And when Jesus
saw that he answered discreetly, he said unto him, Thou art not far
from the kingdom of God. And no man after that durst ask him any
question. 12:35 And Jesus answered and said, while he taught in the
temple, How say the scribes that Christ is the son of David? 12:36
For David himself said by the Holy Ghost, The LORD said to my
Lord,  Sit  thou  on  my  right  hand,  till  I  make  thine  enemies  thy
footstool.  12:37  David  therefore  himself  calleth  him  Lord;  and
whence is he then his son? And the common people heard him
gladly.
His fuller answer to the same question, as reported in the  Gospel of
Matthew is spectacular:
22:34  But  when  the  Pharisees  had  heard  that  he  had  put  the
Sadducees to silence, they were gathered together.  22:35 Then one
of them, which was a lawyer, asked him a question, tempting him,
and saying, 22:36  Master, which is the great commandment in the
law? 22:37 Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God
with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.  22:38
This is the first and great commandment.  22:39 And the second is
like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.  22:40 On

JESUS † The Complete Biography
these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets.  22:41
While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them,
22:42 Saying, What think ye of Christ? whose son is he? They say
unto him, The son of David.  22:43 He saith unto them, How then
doth David in spirit call him Lord, saying, 22:44 The LORD said
unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy
footstool? 22:45 If David then call him Lord, how is he his son?
22:46 And no man was able to answer him a word, neither durst any
man from that day forth ask him any more questions. 23:1 Then
spake Jesus to the multitude, and to his disciples, 23:2 Saying The
scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat: 23:3 All therefore
whatsoever they bid you observe, that observe and do; but do not
ye after their works: for they say, and do not.  23:4 For they bind
heavy burdens and grievous to be borne, and lay them on men's
shoulders; but they themselves will not move them with one of their
fingers.  23:5 But all their works they do for to be seen of men: they
make broad their phylacteries, and enlarge the borders of their
garments, 23:6 And love the uppermost rooms at feasts, and the
chief seats in the synagogues, 23:7 And greetings in the markets,
and to be called of men, Rabbi, Rabbi.  23:8 But be not ye called
Rabbi: for one is your Master, even Christ; and all ye are brethren.
23:9 And call no man your father upon the earth: for one is your
Father, which is in heaven.  23:10 Neither be ye called masters: for
one is your Master, even Christ.  23:11 But he that is greatest among
you shall be your servant.  23:12 And whosoever shall exalt himself
shall be abased; and he that shall humble himself shall be exalted.
23:13 But woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye
shut up the kingdom of heaven against men: for ye neither go in
yourselves, neither suffer ye them that are entering to go in.  23:14
Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye devour
widows' houses, and for a pretence make long prayer: therefore ye

JESUS † The Complete Biography
shall receive the greater damnation.  23:15 Woe unto you, scribes
and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye compass sea and land to make
one proselyte, and when he is made, ye make him twofold more the
child of hell than yourselves.  23:16 Woe unto you, ye blind guides,
which say, Whosoever shall swear by the temple, it is nothing; but
whosoever shall swear by the gold of the temple, he is a debtor!
23:17 Ye fools and blind: for whether is greater, the gold, or the
temple that sanctifieth the gold? 23:18 And, Whosoever shall swear
by the altar, it is nothing; but whosoever sweareth by the gift that is
upon it, he is guilty.  23:19 Ye fools and blind: for whether is greater,
the gift, or the altar that sanctifieth the gift? 23:20 Whoso therefore
shall swear by the altar, sweareth by it, and by all things thereon.
23:21 And whoso shall swear by the temple, sweareth by it, and by
him that dwelleth therein.  23:22 And he that shall swear by heaven,
sweareth by the throne of God, and by him that sitteth thereon.
23:23 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye pay
tithe of mint and anise and cummin, and have omitted the weightier
matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith: these ought ye to
have done, and not to leave the other undone.  23:24 Ye blind
guides, which strain at a gnat, and swallow a camel.  23:25 Woe unto
you,  scribes  and  Pharisees,  hypocrites!  for  ye  make  clean  the
outside of the cup and of the platter, but within they are full of
extortion and excess. 23:26 Thou blind Pharisee, cleanse first that
which is within the cup and platter, that the outside of them may be
clean also.  23:27 Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites!
for  ye  are  like  unto  whited  sepulchres,  which  indeed  appear
beautiful outward, but are within full of dead men's bones, and of all
uncleanness.  23:28 Even so ye also outwardly appear righteous
unto men, but within ye are full of hypocrisy and iniquity.  23:29 Woe
unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because ye build the
tombs of the prophets, and garnish the sepulchres of the righteous,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
23:30 And say, If we had been in the days of our fathers, we would
not have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets.
23:31 Wherefore ye be witnesses unto yourselves, that ye are the
children of them which killed the prophets.  23:32 Fill ye up then the
measure  of  your  fathers.   23:33  Ye  serpents,  ye  generation  of
vipers, how can ye escape the damnation of hell? 23:34 Wherefore,
behold, I send unto you prophets, and wise men, and scribes: and
some of them ye shall kill and crucify; and some of them shall ye
scourge in your synagogues, and persecute them from city to city:
23:35 That upon you may come all the righteous blood shed upon
the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel unto the blood of
Zacharias son of Barachias, whom ye slew between the temple and
the altar.  23:36 Verily I say unto you, All these things shall come
upon this generation.  23:37 O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that
killest the prophets, and stonest them which are sent unto thee,
how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a
hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not! 23:38
Behold, your house is left unto you desolate.  23:39 For I say unto
you, Ye shall not see me henceforth, till ye shall say, Blessed is he
that cometh in the name of the Lord.
Jesus warned his audiences, whether the masses of Jewish people or his
disciples not to become infected with the spirit, the way of thinking and
feelings,  and  especially  the  pattern  of  actions  of  the  Pharisees  and
Sadducees.  This must have been completely unanticipated, even for those
who considered him the Davidic messiah.  For they believed that their
religious leaders were the holiest, the closest to God, and therefore the
“chosen” of the “chosen” to be ranked closest to the anointed King of the
Jews.    Jesus  articulates  a  revolutionary  principle,  one  which  was
symbolically articulated in the Book of Isaiah:
40:4 Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall
be made low: and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough
places plain:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
This principle is spoken of succinctly in the Gospel of Mark:
10:31 But many that are first shall be last; and the last first.
It is reiterated in similar wording in the Gospel of Matthew:
19:30 But many that are first shall be last; and the last shall be first.
20:16 So the last shall be first, and the first last; for many be called,
but few chosen.
And it is found in the Gospel of Luke:
13:30 And behold, there are last which shall be first, and there are
first which shall be last.
But this principle would not pack much of a punch if it were not related to
particular people in particular situations.  As it was, the disciples of Jesus
were jockeying for position.  They wanted to know how they ranked, both
in this world and in the world in which Jesus would reign.  In the Gospel
of  Matthew we  find  merely  a  passing  reference  to  this  controversy,
where Jesus tells his disciples:
9:35 And he sat down, and called the twelve, and saith unto them, If
any man desire to be first, the same shall be last of all, and servant
of all.
Not surprisingly it is in the Gospel of Luke that we are told more of what
Jesus said:
9:46 Then there arose a reasoning among them, which of them
should be greatest.  9:47 And Jesus, perceiving the thought of their
heart, took a child, and set him by him, 9:48 And said unto them,
Whosoever shall receive this child in my name receiveth me: and
whosoever shall receive me receiveth him that sent me: for he that is
least among you all, the same shall be great.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
It is quite remarkable that the usually terse Gospel of Mark is, in this
case, the most detailed in its account of this story:
10:35 And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, come unto him,
saying, Master, we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever
we shall desire.  10:36 And he said unto them, What would ye that I
should do for you? 10:37 They said unto him, Grant unto us that we
may sit, one on thy right hand, and the other on thy left hand, in thy
glory.  10:38 But Jesus said unto them, Ye know not what ye ask: can
ye drink of the cup that I drink of? and be baptized with the baptism
that I am baptized with? 10:39 And they said unto him, We can. And
Jesus said unto them, Ye shall indeed drink of the cup that I drink
of;  and  with  the  baptism that  I  am  baptized  withal  shall  ye  be
baptized: 10:40 But to sit on my right hand and on my left hand is
not  mine  to  give;  but  it  shall  be  given  to  them  for  whom  it  is
prepared.  10:41 And when the ten heard it, they began to be much
displeased with James and John.  10:42 But Jesus called them to
him, and saith unto them, Ye know that they which are accounted to
rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship over them; and their great
ones exercise authority upon them.  10:43 But so shall it not be
among you: but whosoever will be great among you, shall be your
minister: 10:44 And whosoever of you will be the chiefest, shall be
servant of all.  10:45 For even the Son of man came not to be
ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for
many.
To conclude this section, we cite from Chapters LIV-LX of Book I of the
Recognitions253 attributed to Clement of Rome254 describes the Jewish sects
extant at the time of Jesus, and includes a group of disciples of John the
Baptist,  who  did  not  accept  Jesus  as  Christ,  but  instead  separated
themselves and deemed their leader as Christ:
For when the rising of Christ was at hand for the abolition of sacrifices,
and for the bestowal of the grace of baptism, the enemy, understanding
from the predictions that the time was at hand, wrought various schisms

JESUS † The Complete Biography
among the people, that, if haply it might be possible to abolish the former
sin [That is, the sin of sacrifice], the latter fault might be incorrigible. The
first schism, therefore, was that of those who were called  Sadducees,
which took their rise almost in the time of John. These, as more righteous
than  others,  began  to  separate  themselves  from  the  assembly  of  the
people, and to deny the resurrection of the dead [Matthew 22:23], and to
assert that by an argument of infidelity, saying that it was unworthy that
God should be worshipped, as it were, under the promise of a reward.
The first author of this opinion was Dositheus [Comp. book ii. 8–11 and
Homily  II.  24.  The writer here confuses the later Dositheus with an
earlier teacher, whose disciple Zadok was the founder of the sect of the
Sadduccees.—R]; the second was Simon.  Another schism is that of the
Samaritans; for they deny the resurrection of the dead, and assert that
God is not to be worshipped in Jerusalem, but on Mount Gerizim. They
indeed  rightly,  from  the  predictions  of  Moses,  expect  the  one  true
Prophet; but by the wickedness of Dositheus they were hindered from
believing that Jesus is He whom they were expecting. The scribes also,
and  Pharisees, are led away  into another schism; but these, being
baptized  by  John,  and  holding  the  word  of  truth  received  from  the
tradition of Moses as the key of the kingdom of heaven, have hid it from
the hearing of the people [Luke 11:52].  Yea, some even of the disciples
of John, who seemed to be great ones, have separated themselves from
the people, and proclaimed their own master as the Christ. But all these
schisms have been prepared, that by means of them the faith of Christ
and baptism might be hindered.
Chapters  LVI  through  LXI  of  the  same  book  feature  the  purported
refutations of the Jewish sectarians by certain followers of Jesus:
Chapter LVI.—Sadducees Refuted.
But the party of the Sadducees, who deny the resurrection of the dead,
were in a rage, so that one of them cried out from amongst the people,
saying that those greatly err who think that the dead ever arise. In
opposition to him, Andrew, my brother, answering, declared that it is not
an error, but the surest matter of faith, that the dead rise, in accordance
with the teaching of Him of whom Moses foretold that He should come the
true Prophet. ‘Or if,’ says he, ‘you do not think that this is He whom Moses
foretold, let this first be inquired into, so that when this is clearly proved
to be He, there may be no further doubt concerning the things which He
taught.’ These, and many such like things, Andrew proclaimed, and then
stopped.
Chapter LVII.—Samaritan Refuted.
But a certain Samaritan, speaking against the people and against God,
and asserting that neither are the dead to rise, nor is that worship of God
to be maintained which is in Jerusalem, but that Mount Gerizim is to be
reverenced, added also this in opposition to us, that our Jesus was not He
whom Moses foretold as a Prophet to come into the world. Against him,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and another who supported him in what he said, James and John, the
sons of Zebedee, strove vigorously; and although they had a command
not to enter into their cities [Matthew 10:5], nor to bring the word of
preaching  to  them,  yet,  lest  their  discourse,  unless  it  were  confined,
should  hurt  the  faith  of  others,  they  replied  so  prudently  and  so
powerfully, that they put them to perpetual silence. For James made an
oration concerning the resurrection of the dead, with the approbation of
all the people; while John showed that if they would abandon the error of
Mount Gerizim, they should consequently acknowledge that Jesus was
indeed He who, according to the prophecy of Moses, was expected to
come; since, indeed, as Moses wrought signs and miracles, so also did
Jesus. And there is no doubt but that the likeness of the signs proves Him
to be that prophet of whom he said that He should come, ‘like himself.’
Having declared these things, and more to the same effect, they ceased.
Chapter LVIII.—Scribes Refuted.
And, behold, one of the scribes, shouting out from the midst of the people,
says: ‘The signs and miracles which your Jesus wrought, he wrought not
as a prophet, but as a magician.’ Him Philip eagerly encounters, showing
that by this argument he accused Moses also. For when Moses wrought
signs and miracles in Egypt, in like manner as Jesus also did in Judæa, it
cannot be doubted that what was said of Jesus might as well be said of
Moses. Having made these and such like protestations, Philip was silent.
Chapter LIX.—Pharisees Refuted.
Then a certain Pharisee, hearing this, chid Philip because he put Jesus on
a level with Moses. To whom Bartholomew, answering, boldly declared
that we do not only say that Jesus was equal to Moses, but that He was
greater than he, because Moses was indeed a prophet, as Jesus was also,
but that Moses was not the Christ, as Jesus was, and therefore He is
doubtless greater who is both a prophet and the Christ, than he who is
only a prophet. After following out this train of argument, he stopped.
After him James the son of Alphæus gave an address to the people, with
showing that we are not to believe on Jesus on the ground that the
prophets foretold concerning Him, but rather that we are to believe the
prophets,  that  they  were  really  prophets,  because  the  Christ  bears
testimony to them; for it is the presence and coming of Christ that show
that they are truly prophets: for testimony must be borne by the superior
to his inferiors, not by the inferiors to their superior. After these and
many  similar statements,  James  also  was  silent.  After  him  Lebbæus
began vehemently to charge it upon the people that they did not believe in
Jesus, who had done them so much good by teaching them the things that
are of God, by comforting the afflicted, healing the sick, relieving the
poor; yet for all these benefits their return had been hatred and death.
When he had declared these and many more such things to the people, he
ceased.
Chapter LX.—Disciples of John Refuted.
And, behold, one of the disciples of John asserted that John was the
Christ, and not Jesus, inasmuch as Jesus Himself declared that John was

JESUS † The Complete Biography
greater than all men and all prophets [Matthew 11:9,11]. ‘If, then,’ said he,
‘he be greater than all, he must be held to be greater than Moses, and
than Jesus himself. But if he be the greatest of all, then must he be the
Christ.’ To this Simon the Canaanite, answering, asserted that John was
indeed greater than all the prophets, and all who are born of women, yet
that he is not greater than the Son of man. Accordingly Jesus is also the
Christ, whereas John is only a prophet: and there is as much difference
between  him  and  Jesus,  as  between  the  forerunner  and  Him  whose
forerunner he is; or as between Him who gives the law, and him who
keeps the law. Having made these and similar statements, the Canaanite
also  was  silent.  After  him  Barnabas  [We  should  doubtless  read
“Barsabas”], who also is called Matthias, who was substituted as an
apostle in the place of Judas, began to exhort the people that they should
not regard Jesus with hatred, nor speak evil of Him.  For it were far more
proper, even for one who might be in ignorance or in doubt concerning
Jesus, to love than to hate Him. For God has affixed a reward to love, a
penalty to hatred. ‘For the very fact,’ said he, ‘that He assumed a Jewish
body, and was born among the Jews, how has not this incited us all to
love Him?’ When he had spoken this, and more to the same effect, he
stopped.
Chapter LXI.—Caiaphas Answered.
Then Caiaphas attempted to impugn the doctrine of Jesus, saying that He
spoke vain things, for He said that the poor are blessed [Matthew 5:3;
Luke 6:20]; and promised earthly rewards; and placed the chief gift in
an  earthly  inheritance;  and  promised  that  those  who  maintain
righteousness shall be satisfied with meat and drink; and many things of
this sort He is charged with teaching. Thomas, in reply, proves that his
accusation is frivolous; showing that the prophets, in whom Caiaphas
believes,  taught these things much more,  and did not  show  in  what
manner these things are to be, or how they are to be understood; whereas
Jesus pointed out how they are to be taken. And when he had spoken
these things, and others of like kind, Thomas also held his peace.
Jesus addresses the rejected
Here are the stories of the rejected of society who came to Jesus, who were
forgiven their sins because of their faith in his divine power of healing, and
whom he command to “sin no more”.  In the Gospel of John we find the
man who was afflicted for 38 years (5:5) and who is unable to enter the
pool near the Temple to be cleansed of his sins because he cannot move
fast enough and someone always cuts in front of him.  Jesus heals him
instantaneously and when he encounters him later he says:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
5:14 Afterward Jesus findeth him in the temple, and said unto him,
Behold, thou art made whole: sin no more, lest a worse thing come
unto thee.
Then comes the story of the woman taken in the act of adultery, who is
brought before Jesus by scribes and Pharisees (8:3-4).  We know that
Jesus insists upon monogamy, notwithstanding the propensity of Jewish
men at that time to divorce for any number of reasons, and marry again
without compunction.  This is how the story plays out:
8:3 And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken
in adultery; and when they had set her in the midst, 8:4 They say
unto him, Master, this woman was taken in adultery, in the very act.
8:5 Now Moses in the law commanded us, that such should be
stoned: but what sayest thou? 8:6 This they said, tempting him, that
they might have to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down, and with
his finger wrote on the ground, as though he heard them not.  8:7 So
when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said unto
them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at
her.  8:8 And again he stooped down, and wrote on the ground.  8:9
And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience,
went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the last: and
Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst.
There is no doubt that the woman is adulterous, for she was “taken…in the
very act”, and since he has spoken in favor of obedience to the law of the
Torah, we might well expect him to condemn her.  Did he not say, in the
Gospel of Matthew:
5:17 Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets: I
am not come to destroy, but to fulfil.  5:18 For verily I say unto you,
Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass
from the law, till all be fulfilled.  5:19 Whosoever therefore shall break
one of these least commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall
be called the least in the kingdom of heaven: but whosoever shall do

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of
heaven.
While the scribes and Pharisees may have been hypocrites, did he not also
say:
5:20 For I say unto you, That except your righteousness shall
exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in
no case enter into the kingdom of heaven.
What  then  is  the  standard  of  righteousness  that  he  would  have  his
followers adhere to?  Jesus elaborates the meaning of righteousness, of
obedience to divine law as he continues this same discourse:
5:21 Ye have heard that it was said of them of old time, Thou shalt
not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment:
5:22 But I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with his brother
without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment: and whosoever
shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the council: but
whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hell fire.  5:23
Therefore if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest
that thy brother hath ought against thee; 5:24 Leave there thy gift
before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy brother,
and then come and offer thy gift.  5:25 Agree with thine adversary
quickly, whiles thou art in the way with him; lest at any time the
adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to
the officer, and thou be cast into prison.  5:26 Verily I say unto thee,
Thou shalt by no means come out thence, till thou hast paid the
uttermost farthing.  5:27 Ye have heard that it was said by them of
old time, Thou shalt not commit adultery: 5:28 But I say unto you,
That  whosoever  looketh  on  a  woman  to  lust  after  her  hath
committed adultery with her already in his heart.  5:29 And if thy
right eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee: for it is
profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not

JESUS † The Complete Biography
that thy whole body should be cast into hell.  5:30 And if thy right
hand offend thee, cut it off, and cast it from thee: for it is profitable
for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy
whole  body  should  be  cast  into  hell.   5:31  It  hath  been  said,
Whosoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing of
divorcement: 5:32 But I say unto you, That whosoever shall put
away his wife, saving for the cause of fornication, causeth her to
commit adultery: and whosoever shall marry her that is divorced
committeth adultery.  5:33 Again, ye have heard that it hath been
said by them of old time, Thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shalt
perform unto the Lord thine oaths: 5:34 But I say unto you, Swear
not at all; neither by heaven; for it is God's throne: 5:35 Nor by the
earth; for it is his footstool: neither by Jerusalem; for it is the city of
the great King.  5:36 Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because
thou canst not make one hair white or black.  5:37 But let your
communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for whatsoever is more than
these cometh of evil.  5:38 Ye have heard that it hath been said, An
eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth: 5:39 But I say unto you,
That ye resist not evil: but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right
cheek, turn to him the other also.  5:40 And if any man will sue thee
at the law, and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also.  5:41
And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain.
5:42 Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would borrow
of thee turn not thou away.  5:43 Ye have heard that it hath been
said, Thou shalt love thy neighbour, and hate thine enemy.  5:44
But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you,
do  good  to  them  that  hate  you,  and  pray  for  them  which
despitefully use you, and persecute you; 5:45 That ye may be the
children of your Father which is in heaven: for he maketh his sun to
rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on
the unjust.  5:46 For if ye love them which love you, what reward

JESUS † The Complete Biography
have ye? do not even the publicans the same? 5:47 And if ye salute
your brethren only, what do ye more than others? do not even the
publicans so? 5:48 Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father
which is in heaven is perfect.  6:1 Take heed that ye do not your alms
before men, to be seen of them: otherwise ye have no reward of
your Father which is in heaven.  6:2 Therefore when thou doest
thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites
do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory of
men. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward.  6:3 But when
thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand
doeth: 6:4 That thine alms may be in secret: and thy Father which
seeth in secret himself shall reward thee openly.  6:5 And when thou
prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are: for they love to
pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets,
that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, They have their
reward.  6:6 But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and
when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret;
and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. 6:7
But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do: for
they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. 6:8 Be
not ye therefore like unto them: for your Father knoweth what
things ye have need of, before ye ask him. 6:9 After this manner
therefore pray ye: Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy
name. 6:10 Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done in earth, as it is in
heaven. 6:11 Give us this day our daily bread. 6:12 And forgive us our
debts,  as  we  forgive  our  debtors.  6:13  And  lead  us  not  into
temptation, but deliver us from evil: For thine is the kingdom, and
the power, and the glory, for ever. Amen. 6:14 For if ye forgive men
their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you: 6:15 But
if  ye  forgive  not  men  their trespasses,  neither  will your  Father
forgive your trespasses. 6:16 Moreover when ye fast, be not, as the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
hypocrites, of a sad countenance: for they disfigure their faces,
that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you, They
have their reward. 6:17 But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine
head, and wash thy face; 6:18 That thou appear not unto men to
fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret: and thy Father, which
seeth  in  secret,  shall  reward  thee  openly.  6:19  Lay  not  up  for
yourselves  treasures  upon  earth,  where  moth  and  rust  doth
corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: 6:20 But lay up
for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust
doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal:
6:21 For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. 6:22
The light of the body is the eye: if therefore thine eye be single, thy
whole body shall be full of light. 6:23 But if thine eye be evil, thy
whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in
thee be darkness, how great is that darkness! 6:24 No man can
serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other;
or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot
serve God and mammon. 6:25 Therefore I say unto you, Take no
thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor
yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than
meat, and the body than raiment? 6:26 Behold the fowls of the air:
for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet
your heavenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than
they? 6:27 Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto
his stature? 6:28 And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider
the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they
spin: 6:29 And yet I say unto you, That even Solomon in all his glory
was not arrayed like one of these. 6:30 Wherefore, if God so clothe
the grass of the field, which to day is, and to morrow is cast into the
oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith? 6:31
Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall

JESUS † The Complete Biography
we drink? or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed? 6:32 (For after all
these  things  do  the  Gentiles  seek:)  for  your  heavenly  Father
knoweth that ye have need of all these things. 6:33 But seek ye first
the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things
shall be added unto you. 6:34 Take therefore no thought for the
morrow: for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself.
Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. 7:1 Judge not, that ye be
not judged. 7:2 For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged:
and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again.
7:3 And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye,
but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye? 7:4 Or how
wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the mote out of thine
eye; and, behold, a beam is in thine own eye? 7:5 Thou hypocrite,
first cast out the beam out of thine own eye; and then shalt thou see
clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye. 7:6 Give not
that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before
swine, lest they trample them under their feet, and turn again and
rend you. 7:7 Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find;
knock, and it shall be opened unto you: 7:8 For every one that
asketh  receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that
knocketh it shall be opened. 7:9 Or what man is there of you, whom
if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone? 7:10 Or if he ask a fish,
will he give him a serpent? 7:11 If ye then, being evil, know how to give
good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father
which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him? 7:12
Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to
you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets. 7:13
Enter ye in at the strait gate: for wide is the gate, and broad is the
way, that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in
thereat: 7:14 Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which
leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it. 7:15 Beware of false

JESUS † The Complete Biography
prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they
are ravening wolves. 7:16 Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men
gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? 7:17 Even so every good
tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil
fruit. 7:18 A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a
corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. 7:19 Every tree that bringeth not
forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire. 7:20 Wherefore
by their fruits ye shall know them. 7:21 Not every one that saith unto
me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that
doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. 7:22 Many will say to
me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name?
and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many
wonderful works? 7:23 And then will I profess unto them, I never
knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity. 7:24 Therefore
whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will
liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock: 7:25
And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew,
and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a
rock. 7:26 And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and
doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his
house upon the sand: 7:27 And the rain descended, and the floods
came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and
great was the fall of it.
We can expect then that Jesus would apply his principle to “resist not evil”
(5:38) and “Judge not, that ye be not judged” (7:11).   This is how the story
ends in the Gospel of John:
8:10 When Jesus had lifted up himself, and saw none but the woman,
he said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? hath no
man condemned thee? 8:11 She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said
unto her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Jesus addresses the Gentiles
Many have pointed out that Jesus claimed to have appeared to call the lost
sheep of Israel back to God, and this is indeed borne out by many passages
from the Gospels.  There are also his words to his disciples, reported in the
Gospel of Matthew, when he sent them forth to preach repentance:
10:5 These twelve Jesus sent forth, and commanded them, saying,
Go  not  into  the  way of  the  Gentiles, and into  any  city  of  the
Samaritans enter ye not: 10:6 But go rather to the lost sheep of the
house of Israel.  10:7 And as ye go, preach, saying, The kingdom of
heaven is at hand.
And this is his response to the Canaanite woman, who requested that he
perform  exorcism  on  her  daughter,  also  reported  in  the  Gospel  of
Matthew:
15:22  And,  behold,  a  woman  of  Canaan  came  out  of  the  same
coasts, and cried unto him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, thou
son of David; my daughter is grievously vexed with a devil. 15:23  But
he answered her not a word. And his disciples came and besought
him, saying,  Send her away; for she crieth after us. 15:24  But he
answered and said,  I am not sent but unto the lost sheep of the
house of Israel. 15:25  Then came she and worshipped him, saying,
Lord, help me. 15:26  But he answered and said, It is not meet to take
the children's bread, and to cast it to dogs.  15:27  And she said,
Truth, Lord: yet the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their
masters' table.  15:28  Then Jesus answered and said unto her,  O
woman, great is thy faith: be it unto thee even as thou wilt. And her
daughter was made whole from that very hour.
However, these seem to be anomalies, not confirmations of a general rule.
In the Gospel of Luke, in the course of his preaching Jesus is approached
by tax-collectors and soldiers, and while the former were most likely Jews,
the latter were definitely Gentiles; he speaks to both of them:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
3:12 Then came also publicans to be baptized, and said unto him,
Master, what shall we do?  3:13 And he said unto them, Exact no
more than that which is appointed you.  3:14 And the soldiers
likewise demanded of him, saying, And what shall we do?  And he
said unto them, Do violence to no man, neither accuse any falsely;
and be content with your wages.
In the canonical Gospels there are five stories wherein Jesus addresses
Romans.  The first story which gives us a glimpse into the relationship of
Jesus to the Romans is the story of the centurion, told in the Gospel of
Matthew:
8:5 And when Jesus was entered into Capernaum, there came unto
him a centurion, beseeching him, 8:6 And saying, Lord, my servant
lieth at home sick of the palsy, grievously tormented.  8:7 And Jesus
saith unto him, I will come and heal him.  8:8 The centurion answered
and said, Lord, I am not worthy that thou shouldest come under my
roof: but speak the word only, and my servant shall be healed.  8:9
For I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me: and I say
to this man, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he
cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.  8:10 When
Jesus heard it, he marvelled, and said to them that followed, Verily I
say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel.  8:11
And I say unto you, That many shall come from the east and west,
and shall sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the
kingdom of heaven.  8:12 But the children of the kingdom shall be
cast out into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing
of teeth.  8:13 And Jesus said unto the centurion, Go thy way; and
as thou hast believed, so be it done unto thee. And his servant was
healed in the selfsame hour.
The same story is told in the Gospel of Luke, but this time abbreviated:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
7:2 And a certain centurion's servant, who was dear unto him, was
sick, and ready to die.  7:3 And when he heard of Jesus, he sent
unto him the elders of the Jews, beseeching him that he would come
and heal his servant.  7:4 And when they came to Jesus, they
besought him instantly, saying,  That he was worthy for whom he
should do this: 7:5 For he loveth our nation, and he hath built us a
synagogue.  7:6 Then Jesus went with them. And when he was now
not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying
unto him, Lord, trouble not thyself: for I am not worthy that thou
shouldest enter under my roof: 7:7 Wherefore neither thought I
myself worthy to come unto thee: but say in a word, and my servant
shall be healed.  7:8 For I also am a man set under authority, having
under me soldiers, and I say unto one, Go, and he goeth; and to
another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he
doeth it.  7:9 When Jesus heard these things, he marvelled at him,
and turned him about, and said unto the people that followed him, I
say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel.
The second story is when the Herodians, those who resided in the city of
Herodias and who served at the court of Herod Antipas seek to determine
whether or not Jesus was loyal to the Roman imperial government, as told
in the Gospel of Matthew:
22:16 And they sent out unto him their disciples with the Herodians,
saying, Master, we know that thou art true, and teachest the way of
God in truth, neither carest thou for any man: for thou regardest
not the person of men.  22:17 Tell us therefore, What thinkest thou?
Is it lawful to give tribute unto Caesar, or not? 22:18 But Jesus
perceived  their  wickedness,  and  said,  Why  tempt  ye  me,  ye
hypocrites? 22:19 Shew me the tribute money. And they brought
unto him a penny.  22:20 And he saith unto them,  Whose is this
image and superscription? 22:21 They say unto him, Caesar's. Then

JESUS † The Complete Biography
saith he unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which
are Caesar's; and unto God the things that are God's.
This same story is told in the Gospel of Mark:
12:13 And they send unto him certain of the Pharisees and of the
Herodians, to catch him in his words.  12:14 And when they were
come, they say unto him, Master, we know that thou art true, and
carest for no man: for thou regardest not the person of men, but
teachest the way of God in truth: Is it lawful to give tribute to
Caesar, or not? 12:15 Shall we give, or shall we not give?  But he,
knowing their hypocrisy, said unto them, Why tempt ye me? bring me
a penny, that I may see it.  12:16 And they brought it. And he saith
unto them, Whose is this image and superscription? And they said
unto him,  Caesar's.  12:17 And Jesus answering said unto them,
Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the
things that are God's. And they marvelled at him.
The Gospel of Luke likewise tells this story:
20:19 And the chief priests and the scribes the same hour sought to
lay hands on him; and they feared the people: for they perceived
that he had spoken this parable against them.  20:20 And they
watched him, and sent forth spies, which should feign themselves
just men, that they might take hold of his words, that so they might
deliver him unto the power and authority of the governor.  20:21 And
they asked him, saying,  Master, we know that thou sayest and
teachest rightly, neither acceptest thou the person of any, but
teachest the way of God truly: 20:22 Is it lawful for us to give tribute
unto Caesar, or no? 20:23 But he perceived their craftiness, and
said unto them, Why tempt ye me? 20:24 Shew me a penny. Whose
image  and  superscription  hath  it? They  answered  and  said,
Caesar's.  20:25 And he said unto them,  Render therefore unto

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Caesar the things which be Caesar's, and unto God the things which
be God's.
Likewise, in the non-canonical Gospel of Thomas we find a variant of
this aphorism:
100) They showed Jesus a gold coin and said to Him, "Caesar's men
demand taxes from us."  He said to them, "Give Caesar what belongs
to Caesar, give God what belongs to God, and give Me what is
Mine."
What is it that bore the “image and superscription” of Caesar upon it?
Money.  What was it that was exacted by the government of Caesar?
Money, with his countenance and name upon it.  What did Jesus think of
money?  Consider what he said, as recorded in the Gospel of John, to the
money-changers in the Temple:
2:14 And found in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep and
doves, and the changers of money sitting: 2:15 And when he had
made a scourge of small cords, he drove them all out of the temple,
and the sheep, and the oxen; and poured out the changers' money,
and overthrew the tables; 2:16 And said unto them that sold doves,
Take these things hence; make not my Father's house an house of
merchandise.
There are some who have interpreted this to mean that Jesus wanted to
have nothing to do with money and marketing.  There is no evidence in
support of such a simplistic view, and, in fact, Jesus demonstrated his
practicality on too many occasions by his words and his actions to have
espoused such a naïve view.  Money and the market were fine things, in
their own place, in their own space, in their own time.  Likewise, the
earthly  sovereignty  of  Caesar,  as  demonstrated  by  Roman  control  of
currency and hence of all products bought and sold was also appropriate in
its own place, space and time.  Jesus did not say to anyone, whether in
public or in private, to obey God and defy the authority of the state.
Jesus  was  no  revolutionary,  no  Zealot,  no  prophet  of  separation  of
obedience to God and obedience to government.   He could not inspire the
admiration of centuries of Zionists, beginning with the Maccabbees and
revived by Judas the Galilean and his son the founder of the Sicari and a

JESUS † The Complete Biography
century afterwards Bar Kokhba.  No manly resistance to Roman tyranny in
him.  Instead he said that the Roman centurion had greater faith than any
he had found in Israel.
The third story is that of his judgment by a Roman court, as told first in the
Gospel of  Luke:
23:1 And the whole multitude of them arose, and led him unto Pilate.
23:2 And they began to accuse him, saying,  We found this fellow
perverting the nation, and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar,
saying that he himself is Christ a King.  23:3 And Pilate asked him,
saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? And he answered him and
said, Thou sayest it.  23:4 Then said Pilate to the chief priests and
to the people, I find no fault in this man.  23:5 And they were the
more fierce, saying, He stirreth up the people, teaching throughout
all Jewry, beginning from Galilee to this place. 23:6 When Pilate
heard of Galilee, he asked whether the man were a Galilaean.  23:7
And as soon as he knew that he belonged unto Herod's jurisdiction,
he sent him to Herod, who himself also was at Jerusalem at that
time.
The Gospel of John tells this same story in much more detail:
18:29 Pilate then went out unto them, and said,  What accusation
bring ye against this man? 18:30 They answered and said unto him, If
he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him up unto
thee.  18:31 Then said Pilate unto them, Take ye him, and judge him
according to your law. The Jews therefore said unto him, It is not
lawful for us to put any man to death: 18:32 That the saying of Jesus
might be fulfilled, which he spake, signifying what death he should
die.  18:33 Then Pilate entered into the judgment hall again, and
called Jesus, and said unto him, Art thou the King of the Jews? 18:34
Jesus answered him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others
tell it thee of me? 18:35 Pilate answered,  Am I a Jew? Thine own

JESUS † The Complete Biography
nation and the chief priests have delivered thee unto me: what hast
thou done? 18:36 Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world: if
my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I
should not be delivered to the Jews: but now is my kingdom not
from hence.  18:37 Pilate therefore said unto him,  Art thou a king
then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end was
I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear
witness unto the truth. Every one that is of the truth heareth my
voice.  18:38 Pilate saith unto him, What is truth? And when he had
said this, he went out again unto the Jews, and saith unto them, I
find in him no fault at all.  18:39 But ye have a custom, that I should
release unto you one at the passover: will ye therefore that I release
unto you the King of the Jews?  18:40 Then cried they all again,
saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber.
19:1 Then Pilate therefore took Jesus, and scourged him.  19:2 And
the soldiers platted a crown of thorns, and put it on his head, and
they put on him a purple robe, 19:3 And said, Hail, King of the Jews!
and they smote him with their hands.  19:4 Pilate therefore went
forth again, and saith unto them, Behold, I bring him forth to you,
that ye may know that I find no fault in him.  19:5 Then came Jesus
forth, wearing the crown of thorns, and the purple robe. And Pilate
saith  unto  them,  Behold  the  man! 19:6  When  the  chief  priests
therefore and officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify him,
crucify him. Pilate saith unto them, Take ye him, and crucify him: for
I find no fault in him.  19:7 The Jews answered him, We have a law, and
by our law he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of
God.  19:8 When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he was the more
afraid; 19:9 And went again into the judgment hall, and saith unto
Jesus, Whence art thou? But Jesus gave him no answer.  19:10 Then
saith Pilate unto him, Speakest thou not unto me? knowest thou not
that I have power to crucify thee, and have power to release thee?

JESUS † The Complete Biography
19:11 Jesus answered, Thou couldest have no power at all against me,
except it were given thee from above: therefore he that delivered me
unto thee hath the greater sin.  19:12 And from thenceforth Pilate
sought to release him: but the Jews cried out, saying, If thou let this
man go, thou art not Caesar's friend: whosoever maketh himself a
king speaketh against Caesar.   19:13 When Pilate therefore heard
that saying, he brought Jesus forth, and sat down in the judgment
seat in a place that is called the Pavement, but in the Hebrew,
Gabbatha. 19:14 And it was the preparation of the passover, and
about the sixth hour: and he saith unto the Jews, Behold your King!
19:15 But they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him.
Pilate saith unto them, Shall I crucify your King? The chief priests
answered, We have no king but Caesar.
Jesus  speaks  to  Pilate,  who  represents  the  power  of  the  Roman
government to take away life and liberty, in a most astonishing fashion,
unless one realizes that the divine Will is reflected in all things:
19:10  Then  saith  Pilate  unto  him,  Speakest  thou  not  unto  me?
knowest thou not that I have power to crucify thee, and have power
to release thee? 19:11 Jesus answered, Thou couldest have no power
at all against me, except it were given thee from above: therefore he
that delivered me unto thee hath the greater sin.
Jesus does not challenge the right of the government to crucify, nor the
right of the government to levy taxes.  He affirms that “Thou couldst have
no power at all against me, except it were given thee from above.”  It is God
Who endows the government with power.  Once again we encounter Jesus’
hostility to ecclesiastics, to those who presumed to call themselves the
favored, the chosen ones of God.  It was the religious professionals to
whom Judas Iscariot betrayed Jesus, it was the priests who brought him to
the high priest Annas and Gamaliel head of the Sanhedron, and from
Gamaliel  was  he  brought  to  Pilate  for  judgment,  for  the  Jewish
ecclesiasticals could do nothing without his leave.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The fourth story is set at the crucifixion itself, in which the soldiers actually
crucify Jesus and then guard the cross so that nobody will steal his body.
The Gospel of Matthew tells this story as follows:
27:27 Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the common
hall, and gathered unto him the whole band of soldiers.  27:28 And
they stripped him, and put on him a scarlet robe.  27:29 And when
they had platted a crown of thorns, they put it upon his head, and a
reed in his right hand: and they bowed the knee before him, and
mocked him, saying,  Hail, King of the Jews! 27:30 And they spit
upon him, and took the reed, and smote him on the head.  27:31 And
after that they had mocked him, they took the robe off from him,
and put his own raiment on him, and led him away to crucify him.
27:32 And as they came out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by
name: him they compelled to bear his cross.  27:33 And when they
were come unto a place called Golgotha, that is to say, a place of a
skull, 27:34 They gave him vinegar to drink mingled with gall: and
when he had tasted thereof, he would not drink.  27:35 And they
crucified him, and parted his garments, casting lots: that it might be
fulfilled  which  was  spoken  by  the  prophet,  They  parted  my
garments among them, and upon my vesture did they cast lots.
27:36 And sitting down they watched him there; 27:37 And set up
over his head his accusation written, THIS IS JESUS THE KING OF
THE JEWS.
The Gospel of Mark tells the same story, but with a few changed details:
15:16 And the soldiers led him away into the hall, called Praetorium;
and they call together the whole band.  15:17 And they clothed him
with purple, and platted a crown of thorns, and put it about his
head, 15:18 And began to salute him, Hail, King of the Jews! 15:19 And
they smote him on the head with a reed, and did spit upon him, and
bowing their knees worshipped him.  15:20 And when they had

JESUS † The Complete Biography
mocked him, they took off the purple from him, and put his own
clothes on him, and led him out to crucify him.  15:21 And they compel
one Simon a Cyrenian, who passed by, coming out of the country,
the father of Alexander and Rufus, to bear his cross.  15:22 And
they bring him unto the place Golgotha, which is, being interpreted,
The place of a skull.  15:23 And they gave him to drink wine mingled
with  myrrh:  but  he  received  it  not.   15:24  And  when  they  had
crucified him, they parted his garments, casting lots upon them,
what every man should take.  15:25 And it was the third hour, and
they crucified him. 15:26 And the superscription of his accusation
was written over, THE KING OF THE JEWS.
The Gospel of John tells the story somewhat differently, but with most of
the same details:
19:2 And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns, and put it on his
head, and they put on him a purple robe, 19:3 And said, Hail, King of
the Jews! and they smote him with their hands.  19:4 Pilate therefore
went forth again, and saith unto them, Behold, I bring him forth to
you, that ye may know that I find no fault in him.  19:5 Then came
Jesus forth, wearing the crown of thorns, and the purple robe. And
Pilate saith unto them, Behold the man! 19:6 When the chief priests
therefore and officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify him,
crucify him. Pilate saith unto them, Take ye him, and crucify him: for
I find no fault in him.
19:29 Now there was set a vessel full of vinegar: and they filled a
spunge with vinegar, and put it upon hyssop, and put it to his
mouth.  19:30 When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he
said, It is finished: and he bowed his head, and gave up the ghost.
19:31 The Jews therefore, because it was the preparation, that the
bodies should not remain upon the cross on the sabbath day, (for

JESUS † The Complete Biography
that sabbath day was an high day,) besought Pilate that their legs
might be broken, and that they might be taken away.  19:32 Then
came the soldiers, and brake the legs of the first, and of the other
which was crucified with him.  19:33 But when they came to Jesus,
and saw that he was dead already, they brake not his legs: 19:34 But
one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and forthwith came
there out blood and water.
The fifth story is the account of a pay off, and it is found uniquely in the
Gospel of Matthew:
28:12 And when they were assembled with the elders, and had taken
counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers, 28:13 Saying, Say
ye, His disciples came by night, and stole him away while we slept.
28:14 And if this come to the governor's ears, we will persuade him,
and secure you.  28:15 So they took the money, and did as they were
taught: and this saying is commonly reported among the Jews until
this day.
Once more, it is not the Romans, in this case the soldiers, who are the
instigators of wrongdoing—it is the Jewish ecclesiastical leadership, who
bribe the soldiers to tell a lie that will convince many that Jesus was not
raised into heaven like Elijah and Elisha, a sure sign of his divine election,
should it be reported to the people.
The sixth story is that of the centurion who witnessed the death of Jesus
and its aftermath, and is found in the Gospel of Matthew:
27:50 Jesus, when he had cried again with a loud voice, yielded up
the ghost.  27:51 And, behold, the veil of the temple was rent in twain
from the top to the bottom; and the earth did quake, and the rocks
rent; 27:52 And the graves were opened; and many bodies of the
saints which slept arose, 27:53 And came out of the graves after his
resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many.
27:54 Now when the centurion, and they that were with him, watching

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Jesus, saw the earthquake, and those things that were done, they
feared greatly, saying, Truly this was the Son of God.
The Gospel of Mark tells this story in its typical brevity:
15:37 And Jesus cried with a loud voice, and gave up the ghost.  15:38
And the veil of the temple was rent in twain from the top to the
bottom.  15:39 And when the centurion, which stood over against
him, saw that he so cried out, and gave up the ghost, he said, Truly
this man was the Son of God.
The Gospel of Luke recounts the same story but with more detail:
23:44 And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darkness
over all the earth until the ninth hour.  23:45 And the sun was
darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent in the midst.  23:46
And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into
thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said thus, he gave up the
ghost.   23:47  Now  when  the  centurion  saw  what  was  done,  he
glorified God, saying, Certainly this was a righteous man.
The clear implication is that these wonders caused those who witnessed
them to believe in the divine station of Jesus.   In the version of Mark, the
centurion who was watching over Jesus, when he witnessed his death,
spontaneously said “Truly this man was the Son of God.”   Whatever could
those words have meant to a Roman centurion?  That Jesus was a demi-
god, and if so, was this because he was moved by this death, or, more
likely, was he impressed by the rending of the veil of the temple right after
Jesus “gave up the ghost”?  The third version, that of Luke seems to be the
most  realistic  of  the  three,  for  this  attests  to  there  being  natural
phenomena which augured that the death of this man was not favored by
the gods, and, characteristically, this Roman centurion glorifies his god,
saying, “Certainly this was a righteous man.”  Fair-minded, true to the
evidence, and not prone to exaggeration or theological incongruity.
It  recalls  what  Pilate’s  wife  said  to  him,  recorded  in  the  Gospel  of
Matthew:

JESUS † The Complete Biography
27:19 When he was set down on the judgment seat, his wife sent unto
him, saying, Have thou nothing to do with that just man: for I have
suffered many things this day in a dream because of him.
ENDNOTES
1http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philo
Philo (20 BCE – 50 CE), known also as  Philo of Alexandria (Greek:
Φίλων  ὁ Ἀλεξανδρεύς),  Philo Judaeus,  Philo Judaeus of Alexandria,
Yedidia, "Philon", and Philo the Jew, was a Hellenistic Jewish Biblical
philosopher born in Alexandria.
Philo used philosophical allegory to attempt to fuse and harmonize Greek
philosophy with Jewish philosophy. His method followed the practices of
both Jewish exegesis and Stoic philosophy. His allegorical exegesis was
important for several Christian  Church Fathers, but he has barely any
reception history within Judaism. "The sophists of literalness," as he calls
the literalist Jews,[1] "opened their eyes superciliously" when he explained
to them the marvels of his exegesis. He believed that literal interpretations
of the Hebrew Bible would stifle mankind's view and perception of a God
too complex and marvelous to be understood in literal human terms.
Some  scholars  hold  that  his  concept  of  the  Logos as  God's  creative
principle  influenced  early  Christology.  Other  scholars,  however,  deny
direct influence but say both Philo and Early Christianity borrow from a
common source.[2] For Philo, the  Logos was God's "blueprint for the
world", a governing plan.
The few biographical details concerning Philo are found in his own works,
especially in Legatio ad Gaium ("embassy to Gaius"), and in Josephus.[3]
The only event in his life that can be determined chronologically is his
participation in the embassy in which the Alexandrian Jews were sent to
the emperor  Caligula at  Rome as the result of civil strife between the
Alexandrian Jewish and Greek communities. This occurred in the year 40
CE.
http://www.iep.utm.edu/philo/

JESUS † The Complete Biography
1. The first group comprises writings that paraphrase the biblical texts of
Moses: On Abraham, On the Decalogue, On Joseph, The Life of Moses,
On the Creation of the World,  On Rewards and Punishments,  On the
Special  Laws,  On  the  Virtues.  A  series  of  works  include  allegorical
explanations of Genesis 2-41: On Husbandry, On the Cherubim, On the
Confusion of Tongues, On the Preliminary Studies, The Worse Attacks the
Better,  On  Drunkenness,  On  Flight  and  Finding,  On  the  Giants,
Allegorical Interpretation (Allegory of the Law),  On the Migration of
Abraham, On the Change of Names, On Noah’s Work as a Planter, On the
Posterity and Exile of Cain, Who is the Heir, On the Unchangeableness of
God, On the Sacrifices of Abel and Cain, On Sobriety, On Dreams. Here
belong  also:  Questions  and  Answers  on  Genesis  and  Questions  and
Answers on Exodus (aside from fragments preserved only in Armenian).
2. A series of works classified as philosophical treatises: Every Good Man
is Free (a sequel of which had the theme that every bad man is a slave,
which did not survive);  On the Eternity of the World;  On Providence
(except for lengthy fragments preserved in Armenian); Alexander or On
Whether Brute Animals Possess Reason (preserved only in Armenian) and
called in Latin De Animalibus (On the Animals); a brief fragment De Deo
(On God), preserved only in Armenian is an exegesis of Genesis 18, and
belongs to the Allegory of the Law.
3. The third group includes historical-apologetic writings: Hypothetica or
Apologia Pro Judaeos which survives only in two Greek extracts quoted
by Eusebius. The first extract is a rationalistic version of Exodus giving a
eulogic  account  of  Moses  and  a  summary  of  Mosaic  constitution
contrasting its severity with the laxity of the gentile laws; the second
extract describes the Essenes. The other apologetic essays include Against
Flaccus, The Embassy to Gaius, and On the Contemplative Life. But all
these works are related to Philo’s explanations of the texts of Moses.
2http://www.jesusneverexisted.com/philo.html


3http://www.iep.utm.edu/philo/#SH11d


4http://www.jesusneverexisted.com/philo.html


5http://www.iep.utm.edu/philo/#SH11d


6Ibid.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
7Ibid.
8Ibid.
9Ibid.
10http://www.jesusneverexisted.com/philo.html


11http://www.iep.utm.edu/philo/#SH11d


12http://www.bibleword.org/memra.shtml


13http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philo


14http://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/jsource/judaica/


ejud_0002_0018_0_18796.html
15http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pharisees


The Pharisees (Latin pharisæus, -i; from Hebrew יםשְּפרּוִׁ pĕrûšîm, pl. of
ָּפרּוׁש pārûš, meaning “set apart”, Qal passive participle of the verb ָּפָר ׁש
pārāš,[1][2] through Greek φαρισαῖος, -ου  pharisaios[3]) were at various
times a political party, a social movement, and a school of thought among
Jews during the Second Temple period beginning under the Hasmonean
dynasty (140–37 BCE) in the wake of the Maccabean Revolt.
Conflicts between the Pharisees and the  Sadducees took place in the
context of much broader and longstanding social and religious conflicts
among Jews dating back to the Babylonian captivity and exacerbated by
the Roman conquest. One conflict was class, between the wealthy and the
poor,  as  the  Sadducees  included  mainly  the  priestly  and  aristocratic
families.[4] Another  conflict  was  cultural,  between  those  who  favored
Hellenization and those who resisted it. A third was juridico-religious,
between those who emphasized the importance of the Second Temple with
its cultic rites and services, and those who emphasized the importance of
other  Mosaic  laws and  prophetic  values.  A  fourth  point  of  conflict,
specifically religious, involved different interpretations of the Torah and
how to apply it to current Jewish life, with the Sadducees recognizing only
the Written Torah and rejecting doctrines such as the Oral Torah and the
Resurrection of the Dead.
Josephus (37 – c. 100 CE), himself a Pharisee, claimed that the Pharisees
received the backing and goodwill of the common people, apparently in

JESUS † The Complete Biography
contrast  to  the  more  elite  Sadducees.  Pharisees  claimed  prophetic  or
Mosaic authority  for  their  interpretation[5] of  Jewish  laws,  while  the
Sadducees  represented  the  authority  of  the  priestly  privileges and
prerogatives established since the days of  Solomon, when  Zadok, their
ancestor, officiated as High Priest. Josephus' statement 'common people'
strongly indicates that most Jews were 'just Jewish people' by separating
them, and making them independent of the main liturgical groups. The
New Testament also makes common reference to the common people
indicating that the Jewish identity was independent and stronger than these
groups.  Paul  of  Tarsus  indicates  that  changing  liturgical  sects  in  the
Diaspora  had  occurred  while  still  identifying  oneself  as  'Jewish'  or
'Hebrew' 'circumcised on the eighth day, of the people of Israel, of the
tribe of Benjamin, the Hebrew of Hebrews; in regard to the law, I am a
Pharisee' Philippians 3:5.
After the  destruction of the Second Temple in 70 CE, Pharisaic beliefs
became the liturgical and ritualistic basis for  Rabbinic Judaism, which
ultimately produced the normative traditional Judaism which is the basis
for all contemporary forms of Judaism except for Karaism.
16http://www.jewishencyclopedia.com/articles/15185-zealots


ZEALOTS (Hebrew, Ḳanna'im):
Zealous defenders of the Law and of the national life of the Jewish people;
name of a party opposing with relentless rigor any attempt to bring Judea
under the dominion of idolatrous Rome, and especially of the aggressive
and fanatical war party from the time of Herod until the fall of Jerusalem
and Masada. The members of this party bore also the name Sicarii, from
their custom of going about with daggers ("sicæ") hidden beneath their
cloaks,  with  which  they  would  stab  any  one  found  committing  a
sacrilegious act or anything provoking anti-Jewish feeling.
Origin and Meaning of the Name.
Following Josephus ("B. J." ii. 8, § 1; "Ant." xviii. 1, §§ 1, 6), most writers
consider that the Zealots were a so-called fourth party founded by Judas
the Galilean (see Grätz, "Gesch." iii. 252, 259; Schürer, "Gesch." 1st ed., i.
3, 486). This view is contradicted, however, by the fact that Hezekiah, the
father of Judas the Galilean, had an organized band of so-called "robbers"
which made war against the Idumean Herod ("B. J." i. 10, § 5; "Ant." xiv.
9, § 2), and also by the fact that the system of organized assassination

JESUS † The Complete Biography
practised by the Zealots was in existence during the reign of Herod, if not
long before (see below). The name "Ḳanna'im" (
; not "Kenaim" as
given in Herzog-Hauck, "Real-Encyc." 1886, s.v. "Zẹloten") occurs twice
in the Talmud: in Sanh. ix. 11 and in Ab. R. N. vi. (where the other version
has
["Sicarii"]; see Schechter's edition, pp. 31 and 32). The former
passage contains a statute, evidently of the Maccabean time, declaring that
"Whosoever steals the libation cup [Num. iv. 7 or curses one with the aid
of the Holy Name [Lev. xxiv. 16, Sifra] or has sexual intercourse with a
Syrian [heathen] woman shall be felled by the Ḳanna'im or Zealots." This
is explained in the Talmud (Sanh. 82a, b; Yer. Sanh. ix. 27b) to mean that,
while the acts mentioned are not causes for criminal procedure, they fall
into the same category as did the crime of Zimri the son of Salu, whom
Phinehas, because "he was zealous for his God," slew flagrante delicto
(Num. xxv. 11-14). Phinehas is set up as a pattern, being called "Ḳanna'i
ben Ḳanna'i" (a Zealot, the son of a Zealot), inasmuch as he followed the
example of Levi, the son of Jacob, who avenged the crime perpetrated
upon Dinah by killing the men of Shechem (Sifre, Num. 131; Sanh. 82b;
comp. Book of Jubilees, xxx. 18, 23, where Levi is said to have been
chosen for the priesthood because he was zealous in executing vengeance
upon the enemies of Israel, and Judith ix. 2-4, where Simeon as ancestor of
Judith is praised for his zealous act).
Phinehas the Model Zealot.
This unfailing "zeal for the Law" became the standard of piety in the days
of the Maccabean struggle against the Hellenizers. Thus it is asserted that
when Mattathias slew the Jew whom he saw sacrificing to an idol, "he
dealt zealously for the law of God, as did Phinehas unto Zimri the son of
Salu"; and Mattathias' claim of descent from Phinehas implies that, like the
latter, he obtained for his house the covenant of an everlasting priesthood
(I Macc. ii. 24, 26, 54). Mattathias' call, "Whosoever is zealous of the Law,
and maintaineth the covenant, let him follow me" (ib. verse 27; comp.
verses 43-45), whether authentic or not, is practically a recognition of a
league of Ḳanna'im or Zealots, no matter when or by whom the First Book
of Maccabees was written. Similarly Elijah also is lauded for his zeal for
the Law (ib. verse 58; comp. I Kings xix. 10, 14; Ecclus. [Sirach] xlviii. 2);
and later haggadists declared Phinehas and Elijah to have been the same
person  (Targ.  Yer.  to  Ex.  vi.  18;  Pirḳe  R.  El.  xxix.,  xlvii.).  That
Phinehaswas regarded during the Maccabean reign as the type of true
(priestly) piety, in contradistinction to the Hellenizing Sadducees typified
by Zimri, may be learned from the warning said to have been addressed by

JESUS † The Complete Biography
King Jannæus on his deathbed to his wife: "Fear not the Pharisees nor the
Sadducees [non-Pharisees], but the hypocrites who conduct themselves
like Zimri and expect the reward of Phinehas" (Soṭah 22b).
Originally the name "Ḳanna'im" or "Zealots" signified religious fanatics;
and  as  the  Talmudic  traditions  ascribe  the  rigorous  laws  concerning
marriage with a non-Jewess (Sanh. 82a) to the Hasidæan bet din of the
Hasmoneans, so probably to the Zealots of the Maccabean time are due the
rabbinical laws governing the relations of Jews to idolaters, as well as
those concerning idols, such as the prohibition of all kinds of images
(Mek., Yitro, 6) and even the mere looking upon them, or of the use of the
shadow of an idol (Tosef., Shab. xvii.; 'Ab. Zarah iii. 8), or of the imitation
of heathen (Amorite) customs (Shab. vi. 10; Tosef., Shab. vi.). The divine
attribute "El  ḳanna" (= "a jealous God"; Ex. xx. 5; Mek., Yitro,  l.c.) is
significantly  explained  as  denoting  that,  while  God  is  merciful  and
forgiving in regard to every other transgression, He exacts vengeance in
the case of idolatry: "As long as there is idolatry in the world, there is
divine wrath" (Sifre, Deut. 96; Sanh. x. 6; comp. I Macc. iii. 8).
Regarding  the  original  Zealots  or  Ḳanna'im,  the  source  from  which
Josephus derived his description of the Essenes, and which has been
preserved  in  more  complete  form  in  Hippolytus,  "Origenis
Philosophumena sive Omnium Hæresium Refutatio," ix. 26 (ed. Dunker,
1859, p. 482; comp. Jew. Encyc. v. 228-230), has the following:
"Some of these [Essenes] observe a still more rigid practise in not handling
or looking at a coin bearing an image, saying that one should neither carry
nor look at nor fashion any image; nor will they enter a city at the gate of
which statues are erected, since they consider it unlawful to walk under an
image  [comp.  Sifra,  Ḳedoshim,  i.;  Shab.  149a;  Yer.  'Ab.  Zarah  iii.
42b-43b]. Others threaten to slay any uncircumcised Gentile who listens to
a  discourse  on  God  and  His  laws,  unless  he  undergoes  the  rite  of
circumcision [comp. Sanh. 59a; Sifre, Deut. 345]; should he refuse to do
so, they kill him instantly. From this practise they have received the name
of 'Zealots' or 'Sicarii.' Others again call no one Lord except God, even
though one should torture or kill them."
It is only this last point which Josephus singles out as the doctrine of the
Zealots of his day ("B. J." ii. 8, § 1; "Ant." xviii. 1, §§ 1-6) in order to give
them the character of political extremists; the rest he omits. But even here
he misstates the facts. The principle that God alone is King is essentially a

JESUS † The Complete Biography
religious one. It found expression in the older liturgy (comp. "Beside Thee
we have no King," in "Emet we-Yaẓẓib"; "Rule Thou alone over us," in
the eleventh benediction of the "Shemoneh 'Esreh"; "And be Thou alone
King over us," in "U-Beken Ten Paḥdeka"; "We have no King besides
Thee," in "Abinu Malkenu" and in "Yir'u 'Enenu"). Expressed in I Sam.
viii. 7, and deemed by the Rabbis to be expressed also in Num. xxiii. 21
and Deut. xxxiii. 5 (see Targ. to Sifre, Deut. 346; Musaf of Rosh ha-
Shanah;  comp.  also  III  Sibyllines,  ii.;  III  Macc.  ii.  4),  it  was  to  be
pronounced in the "Shema'" twice a day (Ber. ii. 1; Friedmann in his
edition of Sifre, p. 72b, note, erroneously ascribes the institution to the
time of the Roman oppression). As early as 63 B.C. the Pharisaic elders in
the name of the nation declared to Pompey that it was not befitting for
them to be ruled by a king, because the form of government received from
their forefathers was that of subjection to the priests of the God they
worshiped, whereas the present descendants of the priests (Hyrcanus and
Aristobulus) sought to introduce another form of government which would
make slaves of them (Josephus, "Ant." xiii. 3, § 2). The kingship of God is
indeed especially accentuated in the Psalms of Solomon, composed at that
time (ii. 36; v. 22; vii. 8; xvii. 1, 32, 38, 51). "Either God is your king or
Nebuchadnezzar" (Sifra,  Ḳedoshim, at the close); "Whoso takes  upon
himself the yoke of the Torah will have the yoke of the worldly power
removed from him," says R. Neḥunya ben ha-Ḳanah ("the Zealot"; see
Geiger's "Zeitschrift," ii. 38; comp. Ab. R. N. xx. [ed. Schechter, p. 72]);
"My mother's sons were incensed against me" (Cant. i. 6); "These are
Sanhedrin" ["Boulai"] of Judea who cast off the yoke of the Holy One and
set over themselves a human king." See also Philo's description of the
Essenes in "Quod Probus Liber Est," §§ 12-13: "They condemn masters;
even their most cruel and treacherous oppressor [Herod] could not but look
upon them as free men."
Organization as a Political Party.
The reign of the Idumean Herod gave the impetus for the organization of
the Zealots as a political party. Shemaiah and Abṭalion (Ptollion), as
members of the Sanhedrin, at first opposed Herod, but seem to have
preferred a passive resignation in the end (Josephus, "Ant." xiv. 9, § 4; xv.
1, § 1; xv. 7, § 10; xv. 10, § 4); though there were those who "could by no
torments  be  forced  to  call  him  [Herod]  king,"  and  who  persisted  in
opposing his government. Hezekiah and his so-called "band of robbers,"
who were the first to fall as victims under Herod's bloodthirsty rule ("B. J."
i. 10, § 5; "Ant." xiv. 9, §§ 2-3), were by no means common robbers.
Josephus, following his sources, bestows the name of "robbers" upon all

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the ardent patriots who would not endure the reign of the usurper and who
fled with their wives and children to the caves and fortresses of Galilee to
fight and to die for their conviction and their freedom ("Ant." xiv. 15, §§
4-6; xv. 8, §§ 3-4; xvii. 10, §§ 5-8; xx. 8, §§ 5-6; "B. J." i. 18, § 1; ii. 13,
§§ 2-4; iv. 4, § 3; and elsewhere). All these "robbers" were in reality
Zealots. Josephus relates of one of them that he slew his wife and his
seven sons rather than allow them to be slaves to the Idumean Herod
("Ant." xiv. 15, § 5; "B. J." i. 16, § 4); this man is possibly identical with
Taxo,  the  Levite  mentioned  in  the  "Assumptio  Mosis,"  ix.  1-7,  as
undergoing a martyr's death in a cave with his seven sons, saying: "Let us
die rather than transgress the commands of the Lord of Lords, the God of
our fathers; for if we do this our blood will be avenged before the Lord"
(comp. Charles, "The Assumption of Moses," 1897, p. 36, who suggests
the  original  reading
["the  Zealot"]  in  place  of
,  which  he
considers a corruption of the copyist; see also Schürer, "Gesch." 1st ed.,
iii. 3, 217, and Charles,  l.c. pp. lv.-lviii.). Sepphoris inGalilee seems to
have been the main fortress in which the Zealots concentrated their forces
("Ant." xiv. 15, § 4; xvii. 10, § 5).
The Sicarii.
It was for the sake of punishing the crimes of idolatry and bloodshed
committed by Herod that the Zealots of Jerusalem first appeared with
daggers ("sicæ") hidden underneath their cloaks, bent upon slaying the
Idumean despot. Josephus relates ("Ant." xv. 8, §§ 1-4) that it was the
introduction of Roman institutions entirely antagonistic to the spirit of
Judaism, such as the gymnasium, the arena, and, above all, the trophies
(that is, images to which homage was to be paid), which provoked the
indignation of the people. Ten citizens of Jerusalem swore vengeance
against Herod as an enemy of the nation, and, with concealed daggers,
went into the theater, where Herod was supposed to be, in order to slay
him  there.  Owing,  however,  to  his  system  of  espionage,  Herod  was
informed of the conspiracy in time, and so escaped, while the conspirators
suffered death with great torture, but gloried in their martyrdom. The
people sympathized with them, and in their wrath tore to pieces the spy
who had discovered the plot. Another outburst of indignation on the part of
the Zealots occurred when Herod, toward the end of his life, placed a large
golden eagle over the great gate of the Temple. Two masters of the Law,
Judah ben Sarifai and Mattathias ben Margalot, exhorted their disciples to
sacrifice their lives rather than allow this violation of the Mosaic law,
which forbids as idolatry the use of such images; and forty young men
with these two teachers at their head pulled down the golden eagle, for

JESUS † The Complete Biography
which act the entire company suffered the cruel penalty of death by fire
inflicted by order of Herod ("B. J." i. 33, § 2; "Ant." xvii. 6, §§ 2-4).
Judas, the Zealot Leader.
The spirit of this Zealot movement, however, was not crushed. No sooner
had Herod died (4 C.E.)than the people cried out for revenge ("Ant." xvii.
9, § 1) and gave Archelaus no peace. Judea was full of robber bands, says
Josephus (l.c. 10, § 8), the leaders of which each desired to be a king. It
was then that Judas, the son of Hezekiah, the above-mentioned robber-
captain, organized his forces for revolt, first, it seems, against the Herodian
dynasty,  and  then,  when  Quirinus  introduced  the  census,  against
submission to the rule of Rome and its taxation. Little reliance, however,
can be placed upon Josephus regarding the character of Judas: at one point
this author describes him as a leader "desirous only of the royal title" and
bent upon "pillaging and destroying people's property" with the aid of "a
multitude of men of profligate character"; elsewhere ("B. J." ii. 8, § 1;
"Ant." xviii. 1, §§ 1, 6; comp. "B. J." ii. 17, § 8) he mentions Judas as "the
founder of the fourth sect of Jewish philosophy, who taught that God is the
only Ruler and Lord, and neither death nor any dread should make them
call any man Lord"; and at the same time he says, "The nation was
infected with their doctrine to an incredible degree, which became the
cause of its many misfortunes, the robberies and murders committed."
Judas the Galilean, the son of Hezekiah, is spoken of in Eccl. R. i. 11 as
one of the scholarly Ḥasidim to whom in the world to come God shall join
a band of the righteous to place him at His side because he failed to
receive due homage as a martyr (see Derenbourg, "Palestine," p. 161).
17Deuteronomy 18:15,18-22
18 http://wesley.nnu.edu/biblical_studies/noncanon/gospels/gosjames.htm
19http://www.ccel.org/ccel/schaff/anf01.ix.iv.html


20http://gnosis.org/library/psudomat.htm


21http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/10745a.htm


In their theory of conduct the neo-Pythagoreans attach great importance to
personal asceticism, contemplation, and the worship of a purely spiritual
deity. At the same time, it is an essential part of their ethical system that
freedom from the trammels of matter and final union with God are to be
obtained only by invoking the aid of friendly spirits and God-sent men and
by thwarting the efforts of malign demons….

JESUS † The Complete Biography
It is important to remark in criticism of Philostratus's narrative, that he
lived one hundred years after the events which he describes. Moreover,
according to Philostratus's own account, Apollonius did not lay claim to
divine prerogatives. He believed that the "virtue" which he possessed was
to be attributed to his  knowledge of Pythagorean philosophy and his
observance of its prescriptions. He held as a general principle that anyone
who attained the same degree of wisdom and asceticism could acquire the
same power.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pythagoreanism
Neopythagoreanism was a revival in the 2nd century BC—2nd century AD
period  of  various  ideas  traditionally  associated  with  the  followers  of
Pythagoras, the Pythagoreans. Notable Neopythagoreans include Nigidius
Figulus, Apollonius of Tyana and Moderatus of Gades. Middle and Neo-
Platonists  such  as  Numenius and  Plotinus also  showed  some
Neopythagorean influence.
They emphasized the distinction between the soul and the body. God must
be worshipped spiritually by prayer and the will to be good. The soul must
be freed from its material surroundings by an ascetic habit of life. Bodily
pleasures and all sensuous impulses must be abandoned as detrimental to
the spiritual purity of the soul. God is the principle of good; Matter the
groundwork of Evil. The non-material universe was regarded as the sphere
of mind or spirit.[14]
http://www.iep.utm.edu/philo/
Philo of Alexandria, a Hellenized Jew also called Judaeus Philo, is a figure
that  spans  two  cultures,  the  Greek  and  the  Hebrew.  When  Hebrew
mythical thought met Greek philosophical thought in the first century
B.C.E. [20 BCE-40 CE] it was only natural that someone would try to
develop speculative and philosophical justification for Judaism in terms of
Greek philosophy.…
Philo was thoroughly educated in Greek philosophy and culture as can be
seen from his superb knowledge of classical Greek literature. He had a
deep reverence for Plato and referred to him as “the most holy Plato”
(Prob. 13). Philo’s philosophy represented contemporary Platonism which
was its revised version incorporating Stoic doctrine and terminology via
Antiochus of Ascalon (ca 90 B.C.E.) and Eudorus of Alexandria, as well
as  elements  of  Aristotelian  logic  and  ethics  and  Pythagorean  ideas.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Clement of Alexandria even called Philo “the Pythagorean.”  But it seems
that Philo also picked up his ancestral tradition, though as an adult, and
once having discovered it, he put forward the teachings of the Jewish
prophet, Moses, as “the summit of philosophy” (Op. 8), and considered
Moses the teacher of  Pythagoras (b. ca 570 B.C.E.) and of all Greek
philosophers and lawgivers (Hesiod,  Heraclitus, Lycurgus, to mention a
few). For Philo, Greek philosophy was a natural development of the
revelatory teachings of Moses. He was no innovator in this matter because
already before him Jewish scholars attempted the same. Artapanus in the
second century B.C.E identified Moses with Musaeus and with Orpheus.
According to Aristobulus  of Paneas  (first half of the  second century
B.C.E.), Homer and Hesiod drew from the books of Moses which were
translated into Greek long before the Septuagint.
22http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apollonius_of_Tyana


Apollonius of Tyana (Ancient Greek: Ἀπολλώνιος ὁ Τυανεύς; ca. 15?–ca.
100? CE[2]) was a  Greek Neopythagorean philosopher from the town of
Tyana in the  Roman province of  Cappadocia in  Asia Minor. Little is
known  about  him  with  certainty.  Being  a  1st-century  orator  and
philosopher around the time of  Christ, he was compared with Jesus of
Nazareth by Christians in the 4th century[3] and by various popular writers
in modern times.
23http://www.livius.org/ap-ark/apollonius/life/va_00.html


The  text of  Philostratus'  Life  of  Apollonius was  published  (with  a
translation) in two volumes in the Loeb Classical Library in 1912 and has
been reprinted several times.
The following summary is taken with permission from a book by Jaap-Jan
Flinterman,
Power,  paideia  &  pythagoreanism.  Greek  identity,
conceptions of the relationship between philosophers and monarchs and
political ideas in Philostratus' Life of Apollonius (1995 Amsterdam).
Book one
After the first three introductory chapters of Book 1, chapters 4-17 deal
with the birth of Apollonius and the miraculous portents that accompanied
it, his education and embracing of Pythagoreanism, his five years spent in
silence in Pamphylia and Lycia, and his stay in Antioch. Chapters 18ff are
concerned with Apollonius' journey to Mesopotamia and Iran. In Nineveh

JESUS † The Complete Biography
he  meets  Damis,  who  will  remain  his  loyal  disciple  and  companion
virtually to the end of Apollonius' earthly existence (1.19).
Vardanes I (©!!)
In Cissia the travelers encounter a Greek community descended from the
Eretrians deported by Darius, who are living in miserable circumstances
(1.23f). Chapters 25ff describe their stay in the court of the Parthian king
Vardanes in  Babylon and  Ecbatana. The length of their stay with their
king, in accordance with Apollonius' interpretation of an omen (1.22), is
one year and eight months. During this period Apollonius has regular
contact with the Magi (1.26 and 39) and gains considerable influence over
the king. He manages to secure an improvement in the situation of the
descendants of the Eretrians (1.35) and argues for a peaceful policy toward
Rome (1.37). The book ends with their departure from king Vardanes
(1.40).

Taxila / Sirkap
Book two
Book 2 recounts the adventures of Apollonius and his followers on their
journey to India. They pass through the 'Caucasus' (i.e. the Hindu Kush),
where they marvel at the chains of Prometheus (2.3) and drive away a
hobgoblin (2.4). This journey is the pretext for an exchange between

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Apollonius and Damis, leading to the conclusion that mountaineering does
not benefit those in search of the Divine (2.5). The company of travelers
cross the river Cophen, visit the shrine of Dionysus on mount Nysa (2.8),
but decline to go and see the  Aornus rock which  Alexander the Great
captured (2.10). They kill time on the way to the  Indus with learned
discussions about the training, character, life expectancy, physical and
habits of elephants (2.11-16). With the assistance of the satrap of the Indus
region, Apollonius and his followers cross the river (2.17-19) and continue
their journey to Taxila (2.20). Chapters 23ff contain an account of their
three-day  stay  with  the  Indian  philosopher  king  Phraotes,  who  tells
Apollonius about the place where the Indian sages live (2.33). Apollonius
discusses dream divination with the king (2.35-37) and advises him on a
legal dispute (2.39). The travelers leave Taxila for the castle of the Indian
sages, visit the scene of the battle between Alexander and Porus (2.42),
cross the Hydraotes and the Hyphasis, and pass the point where Alexander
was

forced

to

turn

back.
Buddha (Taxila, Jaulian)
Book three
Book 3 is almost entirely devoted to Apollonius' journey to and stay with
the Indian sages. The travelers pass a mountain where pepper trees grow,
and reach the Ganges plain (3.5), where they witness a sensational snake
hunt (3.6-8). Four days later they reach the castle of the sages (3.10).
Apollonius is immediately invited to hold a discussion with the sages,
while his fellow travelers are accommodated in a neighboring village
(3.12). Chapters 13-15 deal with the castle and environs and with the life-
style of the sages. During the first discussion (3.16-25), their leader Iarchas
displays the prophetic gifts and explains that the sages regard themselves
as gods because of their virtue (3.18). The conversation also ranges over

JESUS † The Complete Biography
reincarnation, Homeric and Indian heroes, justice, and the Indian cult of
Tantalus. It is interrupted by the arrival of an Indian king (3.26f), who
proves to be inferior to Phraotes because of his complete lack of interest in
philosophy (3.28) and his antipathy to everything Greek (3.31). Apollonius
manages to cure him of this antipathy, but refuses to accept an invitation
from the king (3.32f).
Antioch today
In a second discussion involving Apollonius and the sages (3.34-37), to
which Damis is also invited, they discuss views of the cosmos and other
questions. The sages perform a number of acts of healing (3.38-40). Later
private discussions between Iarchas and Apollonius concern astrology and
cultic practices; Apollonius' writings on these topics are supposed to be the
result of these conversations (3.41). The wonders of nature in India also
come up for discussion (3.45-49). After staying with the sages for four
months, Apollonius and his companions begin the return journey (3.50).
Book 3 concludes with their return via the Persian gulf, Babylon and
Antioch to Ionia (3.51-58).
Theater of Ephesus
Book four
Most of Book 4 is concerned with Apollonius' visits to the Greek cities in
Ionia and the mainland. He provides their citizens with advice, admonition
and assistance. In  Ephesus (4.1-4) he condemns the idle amusement to

JESUS † The Complete Biography
which  the  Ephesians  are  addicted,  urges  them  to  adopt  a  sense  of
community, and warns them of the outbreak of a plague epidemic. In
Smyrna (4.5-9) the Ionian league comes under attack because a number of
Roman names occur in one of its decrees. Apollonius also discusses how
civic life should function with the people of Smyrna. When the plague
breaks out in Ephesus, Apollonius miraculously travels there, exposes an
old beggar as the plague demon, and eggs the Ephesians on to stone him
(4.10). A statue is erected for
Apollonius near the theater.

Kesik Tepe: perhaps the tomb of Achilles
He then proceeds to Pergamon, where he visits the shrine of Asclepius,
and to Troy, where he spends the night on the mound of Achilles (4.11).
He boards a ship bound for Greece, visiting the grave of Palamedes on the
Aeolian coast (4.13) and the shrine of Orpheus on Lesbos (4.14) on the
way. During the rest of the voyage, at Damis' request, he describes his
nocturnal meeting with the ghost of Achilles (4.15f). After arriving in
Athens (4.17),  Apollonius  wants  to  be  initiated  into  the  Eleusinian
mysteries. At first the hierophant refuses to admit a charlatan to the
mysteries. A match for the occasion, Apollonius gives the name of the
hierophant who will initiate him on a subsequent occasion (4.18).
He lectures the Athenians on cultic practices (4.19), on the effeminate
manner in which they celebrate the Anthesteria (4.21), and criticizes the
gladiatorial shows held in the theater of Dionysus (4.22). He also expels a
demon (4.20). On behalf of Achilles, he convinces the Thessalians of the
need to resume his cult, and he pays a visit to  Thermopylae (4.23). He
corrects cultic practices during his visits to Greek shrines and predicts
Nero's (unsuccessful) attempt to dig a canal through the Isthmus (4.24). In
Corinth he is joined by the Cynic philosopher Demetrius, where he rescues
the latter's pupil Menippus from the claws of a female vampire (4.25).
After a brief reference to Apollonius' conflict  with the Corinthian Bassus
(4.26), the scene shifts to Olympia. As he is on his way there, Apollonius
comes across Spartan envoys; he criticizes their effeminate appearance in a

JESUS † The Complete Biography
letter to the ephors, resulting in an ethical revival in Sparta (4.27). In
Olympia he discusses a few of the statues with his companions, takes part
in the religious ceremonies, and rebukes the pretentious young author of an
encomium on Zeus (4.28-30). His ethical exhortations meet with general
admiration, but he refuses divine honors. In Sparta (4.31-33) he discusses
religious and judicial affairs with the magistrates. He brings a young man
who shuns community responsibilities to see the error of his ways, and he
advises the Spartans on how to answer an imperial letter. He sails from the
Peloponnese to Crete, where he visits the shrine of Asclepius in Lebena
and diagnoses the geological effect of an earthquake (4.34).
Nero (Glyptothek, Munich)
Chapters 35ff of Book 4 deal with Apollonius' first stay in Italy and his
conflict  with  the  regime  of  Nero.  As  they  are  traveling  to  Rome,
Apollonius and his disciples encounter Philolaus of Cittium, who is on the
run from Nero and urges Apollonius to follow his example. These words
result in a radical diminution in the number of Apollonius' followers. The
sage of Tyana discusses philosophical resolution in the face of tyrants with
those disciples who are left (4.36-38). Not long after their arrival in Rome,
Apollonius and his companions become engaged in a conflict with a
drunken harpist who sings Nero's songs (4.39). Next day Apollonius has a
meeting with the consul Telesinus, who is well disposed toward him and
gives the sage permission to stay in various temples in Rome (4.40). After
Demetrius is banished from Rome by the praetorian prefect, Tigellinus, for
criticizing the baths which Nero has had built, suspicion also falls on
Apollonius (4.42). These suspicions grow after Apollonius interprets an
eclipse of the sun as an omen of Nero's narrow escape from being killed by
lightning (4.43). A remark by Apollonius on Nero's vocal capacities serves

JESUS † The Complete Biography
as a pretext for his arrest by Tigellinus on a charge of lese majesty. When
the scroll containing the indictment is unrolled, the text proves to have
been mysteriously erased. Apollonius gets the better of Tigellinus during a
private  hearing,  and  the  prefect  has  him  released  out  of  fear  of  his
supernatural powers (4.44). Apollonius brings a young woman, a member
of a consular family, back to life (4.45). Using Menippus and Damis as
intermediaries, he corresponds with the philosopher Musonius Rufus, who
has been imprisoned by Nero. Musonius declines the offer to release him
(4.46). Book 4 closes with Apollonius' departure for Hispania, occasioned
by a prohibition on all philosophical activity which Nero had decreed
before

his

departure

for

Greece.
Bust of Vespasian from Narona (Archaeological
museum of Vid)
Book five
The first ten chapters of Book 5 recount Apollonius' stay in Hispania.
Apollonius and his companions discuss Nero's trip to Greece (5.7). The
governor of Andalusia has a private interview with Apollonius, who urges
him to join the revolt of the governor of Gaul, Vindex, against Nero (5.10).
After traveling through Sicily, Athens and Rhodes, they reach Alexandria.
During this journey they receive news of the flight of Nero and the death
of Vindex (5.11). Apollonius predicts the political and military events of
the year of the three emperors Galba, Vitellius and Otho (5.13). He also
discusses volcanic phenomena and the merits of the fables of Aesop with
his companions in Catana, at the foot of Mount  Etna (5.14-17). He is
initiated into the Eleusinian mysteries in Athens and meets Demetrius,
who tells him that Musonius has been sentenced to forces labor on the

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Isthmus (5.19). Apollonius spends the winter in various Greek shrines
(5.20). On Rhodes he pays a visit to the Colossus, discusses flute playing
with Canus, a virtuoso flautist (5.21), and rebukes a young nouveau riche
(5.22). Upon arriving in Alexandria, he rescues an innocent condemned
man from the executioner (5.24). He voices his disapproval of the blood
sacrifices  in  the  temple,  i.e.  the  Serapeum  (5.25),  and  reproves  the
Alexandrians for their vandalism at the horse races (5.26).

Chapters 27ff are centered on Apollonius' contacts with the new emperor
Vespasian. After his arrival in Alexandria, Vespasian immediately inquires
about the whereabouts of Apollonius, who proves to be staying in the
temple (5.27). Apollonius replies to his request to make him emperor that
he has already done so by praying to the gods for a ruler like Vespasian
(5.28). The latter justifies his bid for power to Apollonius, who urges him
to carry out his resolutions. Apollonius also mentions the destruction of the
temple of Jupiter Capitolinus the previous day during the struggle between
the emperor Vitellius and Vespasian's son Domitian in Rome (5.29). The
next  day  Apollonius  pays  a  visit  to  the  emperor;  at  his  request  the
philosophers  Dio and Euphrates, who are both on Alexandria, are also
admitted to the conversation (5.31). Vespasian asks the philosophers to
advise him on how to exercise the authority that has been brought into
discredit by his predecessors (5.32). Euphrates refuses to met the request;
instead, he argues for the abolition of the monarchy and the restoration of
the republic (5.33). Dio is in favor of a constitutional referendum (5.34).
Apollonius  rejects  the  arguments  of  these  speakers  as  unrealistic
sophistries and puts forward a vigorous plea for the monarchy (5.35),
followed by an account of how rule by one man should be carried out
(5.36). Euphrates reveals his true colors by attacking Pythagoreanism in
the emperor's presence (5.37) and asking him for money (5.38). After
Vespasian has left, the conflict between Apollonius and Euphrates reaches
a climax (5.39). Dio is criticized by Apollonius for the rhetorical character
of his philosophy, but the relations between the two men remain cordial
(5.40). The later rift between Apollonius and Vespasian is explained by
Apollonius' disapproval of the cancellation of the liberty which Nero had
bestowed on Greece (5.41). After Apollonius has recognized a lion as a
reincarnation of Egypt's last pharaoh  Amasis (5.42), he sets out in the
company of ten disciples for the Ethiopian gymnosophists.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Titus (Louvre, Paris)
Book six
Book 6 deals mainly with the period that Apollonius and his followers
spend with gymnosophists, who turn out to be less wise than the Indians.
The travelers cross the border between the Roman  province Egypt and
independent Ethiopia (6.2) with a young Egyptian, Timasion, as their
guide (6.3). After a visit to the statue of Memnon (6.4) near the home of
the gymnosophists, they come across a suppliant, who is purified of his
blood  guilt  (6.5).  Then  comes  a  description  of  the  abode  of  the
gymnosophists (6.6). Euphrates has sent one of his disciples there to
slander  Apollonius,  who  accordingly  meets  a  cool  reception  (6.7f).
Euphrates' machinations are revealed by an incidental remark by Timasion
to Damis (6.9). Next day a discussion is held with the gymnosophists, who
are lead by Thespesion (6.10-14). The latter defends the unpretentious
philosophy and life-style of the gymnosophists; Apollonius replies with a
speech  justifying  his  choice  of  Pythagoreanism  and  emphasizing  the
priority  and  superiority  of  Indian  wisdom  in  relation  to  that  of  the
gymnosophists. The first discussion is concluded with a rebuttal of the
allegations made by Euphrates. A young gymnosophist, Nilus, is attracted
by  Apollonius'  wisdom  (6.15-17).  A  second  conversation  with  the
gymnosophists  is  held  the  following  day  (6.18-21),  ranging  over
peculiarities of the Egyptians and the Greeks, justice, the immortality of
the soul and cosmology. Apollonius and his disciples take their leave of
the  gymnosophists  and  set  off  for  the  source  of  the  Nile  (6.22f);
Apollonius, Timasion and Nilus reach the third cataract (6.26). During
their return voyage Apollonius overmasters a satyr in an Ethiopian village
(6.27). The conflict with Euphrates grows more acute after Apollonius gets
back from Ethiopia (6.28). Chapters 29-34 focus on Apollonius' contacts
with Vespasian's son and crown prince Titus. Apollonius writes a letter of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
eulogy of Titus for having refused to be crowned after the fall of Jerusalem
(6.29). Titus invites Apollonius for a discussion in Tarsus before returning
to Rome. The sage praises the harmony existing between Vespasian and
Titus (6.30) and assigns Demetrius to the heir apparent as his philosophical
advisor (6.31). He issues a cryptic prophecy of Titus' death (6.32) and
brings about the immediate granting of a request made by the people of
Tarsus.
At this point, Philostratus abandons the chronological framework of his
narrative (6.35). The remaining chapters of the book (6.36-43) are filled
with disconnected stories about Apollonius' activities; where locations are
given, they are situated in the cities of Asia Minor and Syria. He advises a
rich but uneducated young man to study rhetoric (6.36); attacks a foolish
myth that is current in Sardes (6.37); warns the citizens of Antioch of the
divine wrath incurred by civil disobedience (6.38); and helps to solve the
dowry problem of a man with four daughters (6.39). He cures a man of his
passion  for  the  famous  statue  of  Aphrodite  in  Cnidus  (6.40),  and
recommends the inhabitants of the cities on the left bank of the Hellespont
on how to appease the divine anger which is evidenced in earthquakes
(6.41). The author records a witticism on the emperor Domitian's edicts
against castration and viniculture (6.42), and concludes the book with an
account of the healing of a man with rabies in Tarsus (6.43).
Domitian (Museo Arqueológico,  Sevilla)
Book seven
The dramatic climax of the Life of Apollonius is formed by the sage's
confrontation with the tyrant Domitian in Book 7 and the first part of book
8. After an introduction comparing Apollonius' actions with the attitude of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
philosophers to tyrants in the past -a comparison which naturally comes
down  in favor  of Apollonius  (7.1-4)-,  Philostratus  relates  Apollonius'
public opposition to the tyrant and his exhortations to the governors and
senators -including Orfitus, Rufus and the future emperor Nerva- to revolt
against the tyrannical regime (7.5-8). As a part of the preparations for a
trial  of  these  senators,  Domitian  issues  a  warrant  for  the  arrest  of
Apollonius,  who  has  been  maligned  by  Euphrates  to  the  emperor.
Apollonius  foresees  this  warrant and  on  his  own initiative  he  leaves
Smyrna  for  Dicaearchia  (Puteoli),  accompanied  by  Damis.  He  meets
Demetrius there (7.9) and resists his attempts to deter him from engaging
in a confrontation with Domitian (7.11-14). Apollonius and Damis sail to
Rome, where the sage of Tyana is arrested and has a meeting with the
praetorian prefect Aelianus, who is well disposed toward him (7.15-21).
Apollonius is incarcerated in a prison with a mild regime; he instills
courage in Damis and his fellow prisoners (7.22-26) and sees through the
trickery of one of Domitian's spies (7.27). A servant of Aelianus advises
him on the line to adopt with the emperor (7.28). At his first meeting with
the emperor, Apollonius defends himself against the charges (7.32f). The
emperor orders him to be shaved and put in irons (7.34). Philostratus
dismisses a letter attributed to Apollonius, in which the philosopher begs
for Domitian's mercy, as a forgery (7.35). Apollonius brushes off another
of Domitian's spies (7.36f) and inspires Damis with new courage by
miraculously shaking off his fetters (7.38). Through the intervention of
Aelianus, Apollonius is transferred to the prison with a mild regime (7.40).
He sends Damis back to Dicaearchia (7.41) and listens to the story of a
young man from Messene, who has been imprisoned for spurning the
emperor's advances.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Nerva (Palazzo Massimo, Roma)
Book eight
The first five chapters of Book 8 contain an account of Apollonius' trial
before Domitian, his acquittal, and his miraculous departure from the
court. This is followed by the full text of the speech which Apollonius
wrote  for  the  defense,  though  it  was  never  actually  delivered  (8.7).
Domitian is astonished by Apollonius' inexplicable departure (8.8f). After
a  mere  half  day's  travel  from  Rome,  Apollonius  joins  Damis  and
Demetrius in Dicaearchia (8.10-14) and sets out for Greece. The Tyanean
sage visits Olympia again (8.15-18) and the oracle of Trophonius in a cave
near Lebadea; he spends seven days there underground and returns with a
book containing the teachings of Pythagoras (8.19). Philostratus mentions
that this book and a number of letters written by Apollonius are preserved
in the emperor Hadrian's villa in Antium (8.20). After staying in Greece
for two years, Apollonius moves on to Ionia, staying in Smyrna, Ephesus
and  elsewhere  (8.24).  During  his  stay  in  Ephesus  he  miraculously
witnesses the murder of Domitian in Rome (8.25-27). Apollonius rejects
Nerva's request to act as his advisor, and sends Damis to the new emperor
with  his  recommendations  in  writing  instead  (8.28).  According  to
Philostratus (8.29), this is where the memoirs of Damis, which have served
him as a main source for the adventures of Apollonius since the start of his
journey to the East, come to an end. The writer culls various versions of
the end of Apollonius' earthly existence from other sources, devoting the
most attention to Apollonius' ascension from the Dictynna temple on Crete
(8.30). The sage of Tyana appears posthumously to a young man in a
dream to confirm the immortality of the soul (8.31).

JESUS † The Complete Biography
24http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philostratus


Philostratus
or
Lucius  Flavius  Philostratus
(Greek:
Φλάβιος
Φιλόστρατος),[1] (ca.  170/172-247/250),  called  "the  Athenian",  was  a
Greek  sophist of the  Roman imperial period. His father was a minor
sophist of the same name. He was born probably around 172, and is said
by the Suda to have been living in the reign of emperor Philip the Arab
(244-249). His death possibly occurred in Tyre ca. 250 AD….
Historians agree that Philostratus authored at minimum five works: Life of
Apollonius of Tyana,  Lives of the Sophists,  Gymnasticus,  Heroicus and
Epistolae. Another work, Imagines, is usually assigned to his son-in-law
Philostratus of Lemnos.  The earliest of his works, Life of Apollonius of
Tyana, written between 217 and 238 AD, tells the story of Apollonius of
Tyana (ca. 40—ca. 120 AD), a  Pythagorean philosopher and teacher.
Philostratus wrote the book for Julia Domna, wife of Septimius Severus
and mother of Caracalla. The book was completed after her death.
25http://www.livius.org/ap-ark/apollonius/life/va_1_01.html#%A71


26PROTEUS (Prôteus), the prophetic old man of the sea (halios gerôn),
occurs in the earliest legends as a subject of Poseidon, and is described as
seeing through the whole depth of the sea, and tending the flocks (the
seals) of Poseidon (Hom.  Od. iv. 365, 385, 400; Virg.  Georg. iv. 392 ;
Theocr. ii. 58; Horat. Carm. i. 2. 7; Philostr. Icon. ii. 17). He resided in the
island of Pharos, at the distance of one day's journey from the river
Aegyptus (Nile), whence he is also called the Egyptian (Hom. Od. iv. 355,
385). (http://www.theoi.com/Pontios/Proteus.html)
27Note from F.C. Conybeare translation published in 1912 and available
online: http://www.livius.org/ap-ark/apollonius/life/va_1_01.html#4:
“The story is told in  Odyssey 4.349ff. This is the first of a series of
allusions to the Odyssey in the Life of Apollonius, all placed on important
turning points in the narrative. One wonders if Philostratus introduced
Proteus as Apollonius' divine father to express that the Tyanean sage was
also  "defying  capture":  magician  or  sage,  philosopher  or  sophist -
Philostratus' hero is everything at the same time.”
28Micah 5:2.
29http://www.gnosis.org/library/infarab.htm



JESUS † The Complete Biography
30http://www.earlychristianwritings.com/text/infancyjames-roberts.html


31Comprehensive Persian-English Dictionary, by F. Steingass; reprint by
Munshiram Manoharlal Publishers, 2000; pp. 613-615.
32A Dictionary, Persian, Arabic, and English: With a Dissertation on the
Languages, Literature, and Manners of Eastern Nations, by John
Richardson, Franciszek Meniński, and revised and expanded by
Francis Johnson; London:  1829, p. 75.
33https://archive.org/details/seferhayasharor01unkngoog


34http://www.gnosis.org/library/infarab.htm


35http://www.sacred-texts.com/bib/boe/boe110.htm


36http://www.come-and-hear.com/sotah/sotah_12.html


37halakhah.com/pdf/moed/Megilah.pdf
38http://www.ccel.org/j/josephus/works/ant-18.htm


39https://clas-pages.uncc.edu/james-tabor/ancient-judaism/josephus-john-the-


baptis/
40 http://wesley.nnu.edu/biblical_studies/noncanon/gospels/gosjames.htm
41Gospel  of  the  Ebionites

,  cited  in  Epiphanius,  Against  Heresies,
XXX.13.2.3: “There was a certain man named Jesus, about thirty years
old, who chose us.”  Gospel of John 8:57:  “You are not yet fifty years
old,” they said to him, “and you have seen Abraham!”
42 http://www.pseudepigrapha.com/apocrypha_nt/histjoe.htm
43http://www.livius.org/ap-ark/apollonius/life/va_1_01.html#%A73

;
http://www.livius.org/ap-ark/apollonius/life/va_1_06.html#%A76
44https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apollonius_of_Tyana



JESUS † The Complete Biography
45Bereshit/Genesis 1:27, 2:7
46Epistle to the Hebrews 7:3 (attributed to St. Paul)

47Epistle to the Hebrews 7:1-2; citing Genesis 14:18-20

48Genesis 17:17; 21:5

49Genesis 18:14
50Genesis 25:21
51Genesis 29:31; 30:22-23
52Judges 13:2-3, 24-25
531 Samuel 1:5, 20
54Ibid., 1:19
55Virgin in the Greek Septuagint version of the text; the corresponding
word in Hebrew means “young woman”.
56http://gnosis.org/library/psudomat.htm


572   Samuel 5:7,9

: Nevertheless David took the strong hold of Zion: the
same is the city of David; 2 Samuel 6:12,16: And it was told king David,
saying, The LORD has blessed the house of Obededom, and all that
pertains to him, because of the ark of God. So David went and brought up
the ark of God from the house of Obededom into the city of David with
gladness; 1 Kings 8:1: Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel, and
all the heads of the tribes, the chief of the fathers of the children of Israel,
to king Solomon in Jerusalem, that they might bring up the ark of the
covenant of the LORD out of the city of David, which is Zion; 1
Chronicles 11:5,7: And the inhabitants of Jebus said to David, You shall
not come here. Nevertheless David took the castle of Zion, which is the
city of David; 1 Chronicles 15:1,29: And David made him houses in the
city of David, and prepared a place for the ark of God, and pitched for it a
tent; 2 Chronicles 5:2: Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel, and
all the heads of the tribes, the chief of the fathers of the children of Israel,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
to Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of the
city of David, which is Zion.
58 http://www.pseudepigrapha.com/apocrypha_nt/histjoe.htm
59Martin in Chronos, Kairos, Christos: Nativity and Chronological Studies
Presented to Jack Finegan, Jerry Vardaman and Edwin Yamauchi, eds.
Eisenbrauns:1989, pp. 89-90
60http://www.earlychristianwritings.com/text/infancyjames-roberts.html


61http://gnosis.org/library/psudomat.htm


62http://www.gnosis.org/library/infarab.htm


63http://gnosis.org/library/psudomat.htm


64Habbakuk (LXX: Ambacum) 3:2 -- O Lord, I have heard thy report, and
was afraid: I considered thy works, and was amazed: thou shalt be known
between the two living creatures…
65http://www.gnosis.org/library/infarab.htm


66http://www.livius.org/ap-ark/apollonius/life/va_1_01.html#4


67http://www.gnosis.org/library/infarab.htm


68http://gnosis.org/library/psudomat.htm


69http://www.earlychristianwritings.com/text/infancyjames-roberts.html


?http://www.pseudepigrapha.com/apocrypha_nt/histjoe.htm
71 http://www.barnabas.net/barnabasP9.html
72http://www.earlychristianwritings.com/infancythomas.html


73http://www.gnosis.org/library/psudomat.htm


74http://www.intratext.com/IXT/ENG1022/



JESUS † The Complete Biography
75https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philo


76https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Josephus


77https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Messiah_ben_Joseph#The_Dead_Sea_Scrolls


78http://wesley.nnu.edu/biblical_studies/noncanon/gospels/


inftoma.htm
79http://wesley.nnu.edu/biblical_studies/noncanon/gospels/


inftomb.htm
80http://wesley.nnu.edu/biblical_studies/noncanon/gospels/inftoml.htm


81Another translation of this same Infancy Gospel of Thomas, from the Greek text:
http://www.tonyburke.ca/infancy-gospel-of-thomas/the-childhood-of-the-saviour-
infancy-gospel-of-thomas-a-new-translation/
82http://www.theworkofgod.org/Aparitns/


PevglJms.htm#THE%20GOSPEL%20OF%20PSEUDO%20MATTH
EW
83http://www.pseudepigrapha.com/apocrypha_nt/histjoe.htm


84http://www.livius.org/ap-ark/apollonius/life/va_1_06.html#%A76


85Note 1: Plato was the founder of the school of thought that was also
called the Academy. Chrysippus was one of the leaders of the Stoa. The
peripatetics were the followers of Aristotle:
http://www.livius.org/ap-ark/apollonius/life/va_1_06.html#1
86http://www.tonyburke.ca/infancy-gospel-of-thomas/the-childhood-of-the-


saviour-infancy-gospel-of-thomas-a-new-translation/
87 http://www.barnabas.net/barnabasP9.html
88http://gnosis.org/library/psudomat.htm



JESUS † The Complete Biography
89http://www.livius.org/ap-ark/apollonius/life/va_1_06.html#%A79


90http://www.gnosis.org/library/grs-mead/apollonius/apollonius_mead_07.htm

--
G.R.S. Mead, Apollonius of Tyana, Section Seven, Early Life.
91Gospel of Matthew 22:21, Gospel of Mark 12:17; similar wording,
Gospel of Luke 20:25
92http://www.livius.org/ap-ark/apollonius/life/va_1_11.html

-- Flavius
Philostratus, Life of Apollonius of Tyana, Book One, Chapter 13.
93http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sadducees


The Sadducees (Hebrew: יםקְצְצדּוִ Ṣĕdûqîm) were a sect or group of Jews
that were active in Judea during the Second Temple period, starting from
the second century BCE through the destruction of the Temple in 70 CE.
The sect was identified by Josephus with the upper social and economic
echelon of Judean society.[1] As a whole, the sect fulfilled various political,
social,  and  religious  roles,  including  maintaining  the  Temple.  The
Sadducees are often compared to other contemporaneous sects, including
the  Pharisees and the  Essenes. Their sect is believed to have become
extinct sometime after the destruction of Herod's Temple in Jerusalem in
70 CE, but it has been speculated that the later  Karaites may have had
some roots or connections with old Sadducee views.
94Cited in Jerome, Against Pelagius, III.2.
95Cited in Epiphanius, Against Heresies, XXX.13.7-8.
96Cited in Justin, Dialogue, 88.3.
97Cited in Jerome, Commentary on Isaiah, 11:2.
98http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Josephus


99https://lexundria.com/go?q=J.+AJ+18.+116-119&v=wst


100Citing the Book of Isaiah: “29:18 And in that day shall the deaf hear the
words of the book, and the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity, and
out of darkness. 29:19 The meek also shall increase their joy in the LORD,
and the poor among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel.”  Another
passage from the Book of Isaiah has similar content: “61:1 The Spirit of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the Lord GOD is upon me; because the LORD hath anointed me to preach
good tidings unto the meek; he hath sent me to bind up the brokenhearted,
to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to them
that are bound…”  This passage is quoted, with the addition of one phrase
in the Gospel of Luke: “4:17 And there was delivered unto him the book of
the prophet Esaias. And when he had opened the book, he found the place
where it was written, 4:18 The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he
hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to heal
the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of
sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised…”
101Citing the Book of Malachi: “3:1 Behold, I will send my messenger, and
he shall prepare the way before me: and the LORD, whom ye seek, shall
suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom
ye delight in: behold, he shall come, saith the LORD of hosts.”  This
prophecy is also mentioned at the start of the Gospel of Mark: “1:2 As it is
written in the prophets, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face,
which shall prepare thy way before thee.”
102Also found in the Gospel of Matthew, logion 46: “Jesus said, ‘From
Adam to John the Baptist, no one born of woman is greater than John the
Baptist, so that his eyes will not (…).  But I have said that anyone among
you who becomes as a child will know the kingdom, and will become
greater than John.”
103Also attested in the Gospel of Matthew: “21:32 For John came unto you
in the way of righteousness, and ye believed him not: but the publicans and
the harlots believed him: and ye, when ye had seen it, repented not
afterward, that ye might believe him.”
104Citing the Book of Malachi: “4:5 Behold, I will send you Elijah the
prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the LORD…”
This prophecy is also cited in the Gospel of Mark: “9:11 And they asked
him, saying, Why say the scribes that Elias must first come? 9:12 And he
answered and told them, Elias verily cometh first, and restoreth all things;
and how it is written of the Son of man, that he must suffer many things,
and be set at nought. 9:13 But I say unto you, That Elias is indeed come,
and they have done unto him whatsoever they listed, as it is written of
him.”

JESUS † The Complete Biography
105Alluding to the reference to Lucifer in the Book of Isaiah: “14:12 How
art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning! how art thou
cut down to the ground, which didst weaken the nations! 14:13 For thou
hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne
above the stars of God: I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation,
in the sides of the north: 14:14 I will ascend above the heights of the
clouds; I will be like the most High. 14:15 Yet thou shalt be brought down
to hell, to the sides of the pit.”  This recalls Jesus’ words to the seventy
disciples upon their return from preaching the gospel, in the Gospel of
Luke: “10:18 And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from
heaven.”  This appears to be his depiction of “Lucifer, son of the morning”
being “brought down to hell” from “heaven”.  “A pagan myth of the fall of
angels, associated with the morning star, was transferred to Satan already
in the pre-Christian century, as seen in the Life of Adam and Eve and the
Second Book of Enoch, where Satan-Sataniel (sometimes identified with
Samael) is described as having been one of the  archangels. Because he
contrived "to make his throne higher than the clouds over the earth and
resemble 'My power' on high", Satan-Sataniel was hurled down, with his
hosts of angels, and since then he has been flying in the air continually
above the abyss.  Early Christian writers continued this identification of
"Lucifer" with Satan. Tertullian ("Contra Marrionem," v. 11, 17), Origen
("Ezekiel Opera," iii. 356), and others, identify Lucifer with Satan, who
also is represented as being "cast down from heaven" (Revelation 12:7-10;
cf. Luke 10:18).” (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lucifer)  This also recalls
the famous myth of Icarus (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Icarus), which also
warns against hubris.
106The relationship between Jesus, the Son, and God, the Father, is most
copiously recorded in Jesus’ words in the Gospel of John:  “3:35 The
Father loveth the Son, and hath given all things into his hand.” And “5:19
Then answered Jesus and said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you,
The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do: for
what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise. 5:20 For
the Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things that himself doeth:
and he will shew him greater works than these, that ye may marvel. 5:21
For as the Father raiseth up the dead, and quickeneth them; even so the
Son quickeneth whom he will. 5:22 For the Father judgeth no man, but
hath committed all judgment unto the Son: 5:23 That all men should
honour the Son, even as they honour the Father. He that honoureth not the
Son honoureth not the Father which hath sent him.” And “7:28 Then cried
Jesus in the temple as he taught, saying, Ye both know me, and ye know

JESUS † The Complete Biography
whence I am: and I am not come of myself, but he that sent me is true,
whom ye know not. 7:29 But I know him: for I am from him, and he hath
sent me.” And “10:15 As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the
Father: and I lay down my life for the sheep. 10:16 And other sheep I
have, which are not of this fold: them also I must bring, and they shall
hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd. 10:17
Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I might
take it again.”  And “17:1 These words spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes
to heaven, and said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son
also may glorify thee: 17:2 As thou hast given him power over all flesh,
that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him. 17:3
And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and
Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. 17:4 I have glorified thee on the earth:
I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. 17:5 And now, O
Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory which I had with
thee before the world was. 17:6 I have manifested thy name unto the men
which thou gavest me out of the world: thine they were, and thou gavest
them me; and they have kept thy word. 17:7 Now they have known that all
things whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee. 17:8 For I have given
unto them the words which thou gavest me; and they have received them,
and have known surely that I came out from thee, and they have believed
that thou didst send me. 17:9 I pray for them: I pray not for the world, but
for them which thou hast given me; for they are thine. 17:10 And all mine
are thine, and thine are mine; and I am glorified in them. 17:11 And now I
am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee.
Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given
me, that they may be one, as we are. 17:12 While I was with them in the
world, I kept them in thy name: those that thou gavest me I have kept, and
none of them is lost, but the son of perdition; that the scripture might be
fulfilled.”
107Parallels found in the Hebrew Scriptures: Jeremiah 6:16; Ecclesiasticus
51:23-27.
108http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kashrut


109http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Niddah


110http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kohen


111http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Levite



JESUS † The Complete Biography
112Book One, from F.C. Conybeare translation of The Life of Apollonius of
Tyana by Flavius Philostratus
(http://www.livius.org/ap-ark/apollonius/life/va_1_06.html#%A78)
113“One of the themes in the philosophy of Epicurus is that one should
enjoy the delights of life, for example on a country estate of one's own.
Apollonius offers his Pythagorean teacher a life befitting an Epicurean.”
Note to Book One, from F.C. Conybeare translation of The Life of
Apollonius of Tyana by Flavius Philostratus (http://www.livius.org/ap-
ark/apollonius/life/va_1_06.html#%A77)
114Asclepius (pronounced  /æs

ˈ kli
ː pi  ə  s/  ,  Greek Ἀσκληπιός,  transliterated
Asklēpiós; Latin Aesculapius) is the god of medicine and healing in ancient
Greek religion. Asclepius represents the healing aspect of the medical arts;
his  daughters  are  Hygieia ("Health"),  Iaso ("Medicine"),  Aceso
("Healing"),  Aglæa/Ægle ("Healthy  Glow"),  and  Panacea ("Universal
Remedy"). The rod of Asclepius, a snake-entwined staff, remains a symbol
of medicine today, although sometimes the  caduceus, or staff with two
snakes,  is  mistakenly  used  instead.  He  was  associated  with  the
Roman/Etruscan god Vediovis. (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asclepius)
115Cilicia: ancient name of southern Turkey. The Persian king Cyrus the
Great conquered this country, and after the fall of the Achaemenid empire,
Cilicia belonged to the Seleucid kingdom and the Roman empire. It was
well-known  for  its  iron  and  silver  ores.  (from  long  note:
http://www.livius.org/cg-cm/cilicia/cilicia.html)
116Aegae was  the  old  capital  of  Macedonia and  always  remained  an
important place, even after king Archelaus had replaced it in c.410 as his
residence by Pella. However, the town still boasted a palace and a theater.
In 336 BCE, this was the place where king Philip II was assassinated and
his son Alexander proclaimed king (text). Aegae also remained the place
where the Macedonian kings were laid to rest. (http://www.livius.org/ad-
af/aegae/aegae.html)
117Assyria is derived from mât Aššur, which means "the country of the god
Aššur". The capital of Assyria, which was more or less situated between
the rivers Tigris and Little Zab, was also called after this god. The western

JESUS † The Complete Biography
part of Assyria consists of an alluvial plain, where irrigation enables
agriculture;  in  the  eastern  part,  the  foothills  of  the  Zagros,  there  is
sufficient rainfall. (http://www.livius.org/as-at/assyria/assyria.html)
118People looking for a cure in a temple of Asclepius slept in the shrine,
and  dreamed  about  the  cure  that  they  needed.  The  task  of  the
priest/phycisians  was  to  find  out  what  the  dream  meant.  (Note  to
translation.)
119Heraclitus of  Ephesus  (Ancient  Greek:  Ἡράκλειτος  ὁ Ἐφέσιος  —
Hērákleitos ho Ephésios; c. 535–c. 475 BCE) was a  pre-Socratic Greek
philosopher, a native of Ephesus, Ionia, on the coast of Asia Minor. He
was of distinguished parentage. Little is known about his early life and
education, but he regarded himself as self-taught and a pioneer of wisdom.
From the lonely life he led, and still more from the riddling nature of his
philosophy and his contempt for humankind in general, he was called the
"The Obscure," and the "Weeping Philosopher."  Heraclitus is famous for
his doctrine of change being central to the  universe, summarized in his
famous quote, "You can not step twice into the same river." He believed in
the unity of opposites, stating that "the path up and down is one and the
same," existing things being characterized by pairs of contrary properties.
His cryptic utterance that "all things come to be in accordance with this
Logos," (literally, "word," or "account") has been the subject of numerous
interpretations. (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heraclitus)
120Cited by Jerome in his commentaries on Micah 7:7, Isaiah 40:9ff,
Ezekiel 16:13.
121Cited by Origen, Homily on Jeremiah, 15.4.
122Devarim 6:4

JESUS † The Complete Biography
123There has been a great deal written about this expression “Lamb of
God”, [‘amnos] in the original Greek, which is found in only one of the
Gospels, the Gospel of John (1:29, 36), once in the Acts of the Apostles
(8:32), in the First Epistle of Peter (1:19), and 129 times in 121 verses of
the Septuagint (Greek translation of the Old Testament in use at the time of
Jesus by Greek-speaking Jews, including those of Alexandria and others
living outside of the Judaea and Galilee.  There are 28 references to Jesus
as the “Lamb of God” in the Apocalypse of St. John (and one reference to
the anti-Christ as such), and the Greek word is [‘arnion], originally a
diminuative of [ares], which also occurs once in the Gospel of John
(21:15), and 4 times in the Septuagint, including Jeremiah 11:19.  (This
information is from two sources, one online, to be cited presently, and the
other from a book entitled, Theological Dictionary of the New Testament,
Volume  1,  edited  by  Gerhard  Kittel,  Gerhard  Friedrich,  Geoffrey
William Bromiley, p. 54—preview accessed online).
According  to  information  gleaned  online  from  http://bethelnyc.org/the-
suffering-messiah-in-jewish-sacred-writ (1)  and  http://bible.org/article/another-
look-%E2%80%9Clamb-god%E2%80%9D (2), there are reasons to identify
the expression “Lamb of God” with one of the two Messiahs expected by
the Jewish community…not with the better known Mashiach ben David,
but rather the lesser known Mashiach ben Joseph, who is described in the
Talmud.  As confessed by many Messianic Jews (Jews who regard Jesus
as the promised Messiah), there are various indicators that Jesus was
Mashiach ben Joseph, including::
1. Belief that the b’rit khadasha

(new covenant or testament) foretold in


the writings of the Jewish prophet Jeremiah (chapter 31, verse 3-37) has
already been enacted by G*d in history; (1)
2. Acceptance of the historical person Yeshua (Jesus ) of Nazareth as the
figure Talmudic Sages call, “Messiah son of Joseph, who will be killed”
(Sukkah 52a).  In the absence of our Temple (destroyed two millennia ago,
in 70 c.e.), we have no sacrificial system to deal with the justice demanded
by our human sins. Without atonement (just punishment for wrongdoing),
G*d cannot simply “forgive” sin and remain just. Without blood sacrifice,
there can be no atonement: and without our Temple, there can be no
sacrifices,  and  thus  no  forgiveness  of  sin  through  that  means.
Our Hebrew Scriptures are not silent on this subject. In direct context of
the destruction of the 2nd Temple, the prophets point concretely to only
one method of atonement: faith in the death of Messiah (Daniel 9:25-27,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Isaiah 53). (1)  The “Lamb Led to the Slaughter” of Isaiah 53:7: An
examination of the use of Old Testament texts in the New Testament
reveals  an  overwhelming  emphasis  upon  Jesus  as  the  fulfillment  of
Isaianic prophecy. The writings of the New Testament are replete with
significant references to the Isaiah tradition. For instance, Matthew uses
Isaiah 7:14—a passage with possible reference to the natural birth of
Maher-Shalal-Hash-Baz—and expands its interpretation by applying it to
the miraculous birth of Christ. (Matthew 1:23)  Luke (4:14-21) records
Jesus’ own declaration that he is, indeed, the fulfillment of Isaiah 61:1.
John (12:41) announces that Isaiah saw Jesus’ glory and subsequently
spoke about him—a text which is thought, by some, to be an indirect
reference to the events of Isaiah 6. More specifically the silent lamb which
is  “led  to  the  slaughter”  from  Isaiah  53:7  has,  in  post-resurrection
reflection,  been  a  traditional  Christian  image  for  Jesus  who,  in  his
meekness and faithfulness, submitted to “the slaughter” of the cross.  The
verse reads, “He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he did not open
his mouth; like a lamb [provbaton, LXX] led to the slaughter, and like a
sheep [‘amnon, LXX] that before its shearers is silent, so he did not open
his mouth.” (2)
124Gospel of the Ebionites

, cited in Epiphanius, Against Heresies,
XXX.13.2-3.
125http://wesley.nnu.edu/sermons-essays-books/noncanonical-literature/


noncanonical-literature-gospels/the-gospel-of-the-lord/
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gospel_of_Marcion
The Gospel of Marcion, called by its adherents the Gospel of the Lord,
was a text used by the mid-2nd century Christian teacher  Marcion of
Sinope to the exclusion of the other gospels. Its reconstructed fragments
now appear among the  New Testament apocrypha. Marcion's teaching
was condemned as heresy in the year 144.
So many Catholic Christian  apologists wrote treatises against Marcion
after his death, in addition to the noted work of Tertullian, that it has been
possible to reconstruct almost the whole of Marcion's Gospel of the Lord
from their quotations. Marcion, then, is known only through his critics,
who considered his doctrines a deviation from orthodox Christianity.
126Isaiah 53:4.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
127http://wesley.nnu.edu/sermons-essays-books/noncanonical-literature/


noncanonical-literature-gospels/the-gospel-of-the-lord/
128Gospel of Thomas

, in Oxyrhynchus Papyrus 1, Logion 6; and in Nag
Hamadi Coptic translation, Logion 31 (http://www.gospels.net/thomas/)
1292 Clement 5.2-4: “For the Lord said, ‘You will be as lambs in the midst
of wolves.’ But Peter answered him, ‘Suppose, then, the wolves tear the
lambs?’  Jesus answered Peter, ‘Let not the lambs fear the wolves after
their death; and you, fear not those who kill you and can do no more to
you.  But fear him who, after your death, has power over soul and body, to
cast them into the hell of fire.’”
130Also found in the Gospel of Matthew : “24:9 Then shall they deliver you
up to be afflicted…”
131Also found in the Gospel of Matthew: “24.9…and shall kill you: and ye
shall be hated of all nations for my name's sake.” and “24:13 But he that
shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved.”
132Also found in the Gospel of John: “1:41 He first findeth his own brother
Simon, and saith unto him, We have found the Messias, which is, being
interpreted, the Christ. 1:42 And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus
beheld him, he said, Thou art Simon the son of Jona: thou shalt be called
Cephas, which is by interpretation, A stone.”
133Also found in the Gospel of Matthew: “10:30 But the very hairs of your
head are all numbered.
134Also found in the Gospel of Matthew: “16:24 Then said Jesus unto his
disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up
his cross, and follow me. 16:25 For whosoever will save his life shall lose
it: and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it. 16:26 For
what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own
soul? or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?”  And the Gospel
of Mark: “8:34 And when he had called the people unto him with his
disciples also, he said unto them, Whosoever will come after me, let him
deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me. 8:35 For whosoever
will save his life shall lose it; but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake
and the gospel's, the same shall save it. 8:36 For what shall it profit a man,
if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? 8:37 Or what shall

JESUS † The Complete Biography
a man give in exchange for his soul?”  And the Gospel of Luke: “9:23 And
he said to them all, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself,
and take up his cross daily, and follow me. 9:24 For whosoever will save
his life shall lose it: but whosoever will lose his life for my sake, the same
shall save it. 9:25 For what is a man advantaged, if he gain the whole
world, and lose himself, or be cast away?” And the Gospel of John: “12:25
He that loveth his life shall lose it; and he that hateth his life in this world
shall keep it unto life eternal.”
135Also  in  the  Gospel  of  John:  “12:44  Jesus  cried  and  said,  He  that
believeth on me, believeth not on me, but on him that sent me. 12:45 And
he that seeth me seeth him that sent me.” And “13:20 Verily, verily, I say
unto you, He that receiveth whomsoever I send receiveth me; and he that
receiveth me receiveth him that sent me.” A related passage is found in all
three of the synoptic Gospels: first in the Gospel of Matthew: “18:1 At the
same time came the disciples unto Jesus, saying, Who is the greatest in the
kingdom of heaven? 18:2 And Jesus called a little child unto him, and set
him in the midst of them, 18:3 And said, Verily I say unto you, Except ye
be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the
kingdom of heaven. 18:4 Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this
little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven. 18:5 And whoso
shall receive one such little child in my name receiveth me. 18:6 But
whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were
better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he
were drowned in the depth of the sea.”  Also in the Gospel of Mark: “9:36
And he took a child, and set him in the midst of them: and when he had
taken him in his arms, he said unto them, 9:37 Whosoever shall receive
one of such children in my name, receiveth me: and whosoever shall
receive me, receiveth not me, but him that sent me.”  Also in the Gospel of
Luke: “9:46 Then there arose a reasoning among them, which of them
should be greatest. 9:47 And Jesus, perceiving the thought of their heart,
took a child, and set him by him, 9:48 And said unto them, Whosoever
shall receive this child in my name receiveth me: and whosoever shall
receive me receiveth him that sent me: for he that is least among you all,
the same shall be great.”
136Also in the Gospel of Mark: “9:41 For whosoever shall give you a cup of
water to drink in my name, because ye belong to Christ, verily I say unto
you, he shall not lose his reward. 9:42 And whosoever shall offend one of
these little ones that believe in me, it is better for him that a millstone were
hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea.”

JESUS † The Complete Biography
137Also in the Gospel of Luke: “9:26 For whosoever shall be ashamed of
me and of my words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he
shall come in his own glory, and in his Father's, and of the holy angels.”
138Also in the Gospel of Matthew 16:24-25, Gospel of Mark 8:34-35,
Gospel of Luke 9:23-24, Gospel of John 12:25.
139Also in the Gospel of John: “6:44 No man can come to me, except the
Father which hath sent me draw him: and I will raise him up at the last
day. 6:45 It is written in the prophets, And they shall be all taught of God.
Every man therefore that hath heard, and hath learned of the Father,
cometh unto me. 6:46  Not that any man hath seen the Father, save he
which is of God, he hath seen the Father.” And “14:5 Thomas saith unto
him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and how can we know the
way? 14:6 Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no
man cometh unto the Father, but by me. 14:7  If ye had known me, ye
should have known my Father also: and from henceforth ye know him, and
have seen him. 14:8 Philip saith unto him, Lord, shew us the Father, and it
sufficeth us. 14:9 Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you,
and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? he that hath seen me hath seen the
Father; and how sayest thou then, Shew us the Father? 14:10  Believest
thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? the words that I
speak unto you I speak not of myself: but the Father that dwelleth in me,
he doeth the works. 14:11 Believe me that I am in the Father, and the
Father in me: or else believe me for the very works' sake. 14:12 Verily,
verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he
do also; and greater works than these shall he do; because I go unto my
Father. 14:13 And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that
the Father may be glorified in the Son.”
140It is perhaps timely to note that Jesus addresses the Torah teachings on
the taking of oaths, and specifically forbids this practice, as cited in the
Gospel of Matthew: 5:33 Again, ye have heard that it hath been said by
them of old time, Thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shalt perform unto
the Lord thine oaths: 5:34 But I say unto you, Swear not at all; neither by
heaven; for it is God's throne: 5:35 Nor by the earth; for it is his footstool:
neither by Jerusalem; for it is the city of the great King. 5:36 Neither shalt
thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not make one hair white or
black. 5:37 But let your communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for
whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil.  This teaching is reiterated in

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the Epistle of James:  5:12 But above all things, my brethren, swear not,
neither by heaven, neither by the earth, neither by any other oath: but let
your yea be yea; and your nay, nay; lest ye fall into condemnation.
141This passage is preceded by the following:  6:17 For Herod himself had
sent forth and laid hold upon John, and bound him in prison for Herodias'
sake, his brother Philip's wife: for he had married her.  6:18 For John had
said unto Herod, It is not lawful for thee to have thy brother's wife.
142The Greek word that has been translated as “cross” in the KJV is stauros
and its meaning is “stake, pole”.  In comparison, when Jesus speaks of
removing the “beam” from one’s own eye before one attempts to remove
the “mote” from the eye of one’s brother, the Greek word translated as
“beam” is dokos, meaning “beam, plank, log” and what has been translated
as “mote” is karphos, meaning “dry stalk, twig, straw, chaff”.   He also
advises his disciples to take one “staff” upon their journeys or no staff at
all, and the Greek word translated as “staff” is  rabdon, meaning “rod,
scepter, staff”.  All of these terms denoted specific articles of wood, and
none of them appear to be interchangeable.  One of the Syriac words with
the meaning of “pole” is ‘eblaa, meaning “mourning, grief” and also “the
pole  of  the  bier”  (http://cal1.cn.huc.edu/searchmngs.php),  which  is
consonant with the phrase preceding this remark, here in both parts:
“Whosoever will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his
cross, and follow me.” (Gospel of Mark 8:34)  “One thing thou lackest: go
thy way, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt
have treasure in heaven: and come, take up the  cross, and follow me.”
(Gospel of Mark 10:21)  Similar passages are found in the Gospel of
Matthew 10:38, 16:24; and the Gospel of Luke 9:23, 14:27.
143http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eunuch


A eunuch (Greek: Ευνούχος) is a person who (by the common definition
of the term eunuch) may have been castrated, typically early enough in his
life  for  this  change  to  have  major  hormonal consequences.  Less
commonly, in translations of ancient texts, "eunuch" may refer to a man
who is not castrated but who is impotent, celibate or otherwise not inclined
to marry and procreate….Later Roman followers of Cybele, were called
Galli,  who  practiced  ritual  self-castration,  known  as  sanguinaria…
Eunuchs are mentioned many times in the Bible such as in the Book of
Isaiah (56:4) using the word סריס (saris). Although the Ancient Hebrews
did  not  practice  castration,  eunuchs  were  common  in  other  cultures

JESUS † The Complete Biography
featured in the Bible, such as  Ancient Egypt,  Babylonia, the  Persian
Empire and Ancient Rome. In the Book of Esther, servants of the harem of
Ahasuerus such as Hegai and Shashgaz as well as other servants such as
Hatach, Harbonah, Bigthan, and Teresh are referred to as sarisim. Being
exposed to the consorts of the king, they would have likely been castrated.
There is some confusion regarding eunuchs in  Old Testament passages,
since the Hebrew word for eunuch, saris (סריס), could also refer to other
servants and officials who had not been castrated but served in similar
capacities. The Egyptian royal servant Potiphar is described as a saris in
Genesis 39:1, although he was married and hence unlikely to have been a
eunuch…Tertullian, a 2nd century Church Father, described Jesus himself
and Paul of Tarsus as spadones, which is translated as "eunuchs" in some
contexts. Quoting from the cited book: "...Tertullian takes 'spado' to mean
virgin...". The meaning of spado in late antiquity can be interpreted as a
metaphor for celibacy, however Tertullian's specifically refers to St. Paul
as being castrated.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Essenes
The Essenes (in Modern but not in Ancient Hebrew: ִאִּסִּסִיִיים, Isiyim; Greek:
Εσσήνοι, Εσσαίοι, or Οσσαίοι; Essēnoi, Essaioi, Ossaioi) were a sect of
Second Temple Judaism that flourished from the 2nd century BCE to the
1st century CE which some scholars claim seceded from the  Zadokite
priests. Being much fewer in number than the Pharisees and the Sadducees
(the other two major sects at the time), the Essenes lived in various cities
but  congregated  in  communal  life  dedicated  to  asceticism,  voluntary
poverty,  daily  immersion,  and  abstinence from  worldly  pleasures,
including (for some groups) celibacy. Many separate but related religious
groups of that era shared similar  mystic,  eschatological,  messianic, and
ascetic beliefs.  These  groups  are  collectively  referred  to  by  various
scholars as the "Essenes." Josephus records that Essenes existed in large
numbers, and thousands lived throughout Roman Judæa.
The Essenes have gained fame in modern times as a result of the discovery
of an extensive group of religious documents known as the  Dead Sea
Scrolls, which are commonly believed to be Essenes' library—although
there is no proof that the Essenes wrote them. These documents include
preserved multiple copies of the Hebrew Bible untouched from as early as
300 BCE until their discovery in 1946. Some scholars, however, dispute
the notion that the Essenes wrote the Dead Sea Scrolls..

JESUS † The Complete Biography
The first reference is by the Roman writer Pliny the Elder (died c. 79 CE)
in his Natural History.[6] Pliny relates in a few lines that the Essenes do not
marry, possess no money, and had existed for thousands of generations.
Unlike Philo, who did not mention any particular geographical location of
the Essenes other than the whole land of Israel, Pliny places them in Ein
Gedi, next to the Dead Sea.
A little later Josephus gave a detailed account of the Essenes in The Jewish
War (c. 75 CE), with a shorter description in Antiquities of the Jews (c. 94
CE) and  The Life of Flavius Josephus (c. 97 CE). Claiming first hand
knowledge,  he  lists  the  Essenoi as  one  of  the  three  sects  of  Jewish
philosophy

[7]   alongside the  Pharisees and the  Sadducees. He relates the
same  information  concerning  piety,  celibacy, the  absence  of  personal
property and of money, the belief in communality and commitment to a
strict observance of  Sabbath. He further adds that the Essenes  ritually
immersed  in  water  every  morning,  ate  together  after  prayer,  devoted
themselves to charity and benevolence, forbade the expression of anger,
studied the books of the elders, preserved secrets, and were very mindful
of the names of the angels kept in their sacred writings.
Pliny, also a geographer and explorer, located them in the desert near the
northwestern shore of the Dead Sea, where the Dead Sea Scrolls were
discovered  in  the  year  1947  by  Muhammed  edh-Dhib and  Ahmed
Mohammed, two Bedouin shepherds of the Ta'amireh tribe.
1452 Clement 5.2-4: “For the Lord said, ‘You will be as lambs in the midst
of wolves.’ But Peter answered him, ‘Suppose, then, the wolves tear the
lambs?’  Jesus answered Peter, ‘Let not the lambs fear the wolves after
their death; and you, fear not those who kill you and can do no more to
you.  But fear him who, after your death, has power over soul and body, to
cast them into the hell of fire.’”
146Also found in the Gospel of Matthew : “24:9 Then shall they deliver you
up to be afflicted…”
147Also found in the Gospel of Matthew: “24.9…and shall kill you: and ye
shall be hated of all nations for my name's sake.” and “24:13 But he that
shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved.”

JESUS † The Complete Biography
148Also found in the Gospel of John: “1:41 He first findeth his own brother
Simon, and saith unto him, We have found the Messias, which is, being
interpreted, the Christ. 1:42 And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus
beheld him, he said, Thou art Simon the son of Jona: thou shalt be called
Cephas, which is by interpretation, A stone.”
149Also found in the Gospel of Matthew: “10:30 But the very hairs of your
head are all numbered.
150Also found in the Gospel of Matthew: “16:24 Then said Jesus unto his
disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up
his cross, and follow me. 16:25 For whosoever will save his life shall lose
it: and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it. 16:26 For
what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own
soul? or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?”  And the Gospel
of Mark: “8:34 And when he had called the people unto him with his
disciples also, he said unto them, Whosoever will come after me, let him
deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me. 8:35 For whosoever
will save his life shall lose it; but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake
and the gospel's, the same shall save it. 8:36 For what shall it profit a man,
if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? 8:37 Or what shall
a man give in exchange for his soul?”  And the Gospel of Luke: “9:23 And
he said to them all, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself,
and take up his cross daily, and follow me. 9:24 For whosoever will save
his life shall lose it: but whosoever will lose his life for my sake, the same
shall save it. 9:25 For what is a man advantaged, if he gain the whole
world, and lose himself, or be cast away?” And the Gospel of John: “12:25
He that loveth his life shall lose it; and he that hateth his life in this world
shall keep it unto life eternal.”
151Also  in  the  Gospel  of  John:  “12:44  Jesus  cried  and  said,  He  that
believeth on me, believeth not on me, but on him that sent me. 12:45 And
he that seeth me seeth him that sent me.” And “13:20 Verily, verily, I say
unto you, He that receiveth whomsoever I send receiveth me; and he that
receiveth me receiveth him that sent me.” A related passage is found in all
three of the synoptic Gospels: first in the Gospel of Matthew: “18:1 At the
same time came the disciples unto Jesus, saying, Who is the greatest in the
kingdom of heaven? 18:2 And Jesus called a little child unto him, and set
him in the midst of them, 18:3 And said, Verily I say unto you, Except ye
be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the
kingdom of heaven. 18:4 Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this

JESUS † The Complete Biography
little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven. 18:5 And whoso
shall receive one such little child in my name receiveth me. 18:6 But
whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were
better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he
were drowned in the depth of the sea.”  Also in the Gospel of Mark: “9:36
And he took a child, and set him in the midst of them: and when he had
taken him in his arms, he said unto them, 9:37 Whosoever shall receive
one of such children in my name, receiveth me: and whosoever shall
receive me, receiveth not me, but him that sent me.”  Also in the Gospel of
Luke: “9:46 Then there arose a reasoning among them, which of them
should be greatest. 9:47 And Jesus, perceiving the thought of their heart,
took a child, and set him by him, 9:48 And said unto them, Whosoever
shall receive this child in my name receiveth me: and whosoever shall
receive me receiveth him that sent me: for he that is least among you all,
the same shall be great.”
152Also in the Gospel of Mark: “9:41 For whosoever shall give you a cup of
water to drink in my name, because ye belong to Christ, verily I say unto
you, he shall not lose his reward. 9:42 And whosoever shall offend one of
these little ones that believe in me, it is better for him that a millstone were
hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea.”
153Also in the Gospel of Luke: “9:26 For whosoever shall be ashamed of
me and of my words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he
shall come in his own glory, and in his Father's, and of the holy angels.”
154Also in the Gospel of Matthew 16:24-25, Gospel of Mark 8:34-35,
Gospel of Luke 9:23-24, Gospel of John 12:25.
155Also in the Gospel of John: “6:44 No man can come to me, except the
Father which hath sent me draw him: and I will raise him up at the last
day. 6:45 It is written in the prophets, And they shall be all taught of God.
Every man therefore that hath heard, and hath learned of the Father,
cometh unto me. 6:46  Not that any man hath seen the Father, save he
which is of God, he hath seen the Father.” And “14:5 Thomas saith unto
him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and how can we know the
way? 14:6 Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no
man cometh unto the Father, but by me. 14:7  If ye had known me, ye
should have known my Father also: and from henceforth ye know him, and
have seen him. 14:8 Philip saith unto him, Lord, shew us the Father, and it
sufficeth us. 14:9 Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? he that hath seen me hath seen the
Father; and how sayest thou then, Shew us the Father? 14:10  Believest
thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? the words that I
speak unto you I speak not of myself: but the Father that dwelleth in me,
he doeth the works. 14:11 Believe me that I am in the Father, and the
Father in me: or else believe me for the very works' sake. 14:12 Verily,
verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he
do also; and greater works than these shall he do; because I go unto my
Father. 14:13 And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that
the Father may be glorified in the Son.”
156It is perhaps timely to note that Jesus addresses the Torah teachings on
the taking of oaths, and specifically forbids this practice, as cited in the
Gospel of Matthew: 5:33 Again, ye have heard that it hath been said by
them of old time, Thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shalt perform unto
the Lord thine oaths: 5:34 But I say unto you, Swear not at all; neither by
heaven; for it is God's throne: 5:35 Nor by the earth; for it is his footstool:
neither by Jerusalem; for it is the city of the great King. 5:36 Neither shalt
thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not make one hair white or
black. 5:37 But let your communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for
whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil.  This teaching is reiterated in
the Epistle of James:  5:12 But above all things, my brethren, swear not,
neither by heaven, neither by the earth, neither by any other oath: but let
your yea be yea; and your nay, nay; lest ye fall into condemnation.
157This passage is preceded by the following:  6:17 For Herod himself had
sent forth and laid hold upon John, and bound him in prison for Herodias'
sake, his brother Philip's wife: for he had married her.  6:18 For John had
said unto Herod, It is not lawful for thee to have thy brother's wife.
158http://jewishencyclopedia.com/articles/7605-herodians


HERODIANS:
Priestly party under the reign of King Herod and his successors; called by
the Rabbis "Boethusians," as adherents of the family of Boethus, whose
daughter Mariamne was one of the wives of King Herod, and whose sons
were successively made high priests by him. They followed the Sadducees
in their opposition to the Pharisees, and were therefore often identified
with the former (see Grätz, "Gesch." 4th ed., iii. 2, 693;  Boethusians).
According to the Gospels, their plot against the life of Jesus was supported
by the Pharisees (Mark iii. 6, xii. 13; Matt. xii. 16); wherefore Jesus
warned his disciples, saying "Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of

JESUS † The Complete Biography
the leaven of Herod" (Mark viii. 15; Matt. xvi. 6 has "Pharisees" and
"Sadducees"). "Leaven" is explained in Matt. xvi. 12 to mean "teaching,"
that is, "bad teaching" (comp. "se'or sheba-'isah" = "the leaven in the
dough," corresponding to the "yeẓer ha-ra'"; Ber. 17a). This shows that the
Herodians represented a religious party. In Luke xii. 1 the Herodians have
been omitted altogether, and the Pharisees alone are represented as the
enemies of Jesus; and in Luke xx. 19 the scribes and chief priests are
mentioned in place of the Pharisees and the Herodians (see also Mark xii.
13; Matt. xxii. 15-16).
Bibliography:
Cheyne and Black, Encyc. Bibl.;
Hastings, Dict. Bible;
Herzog-Hauck, Real-Encyc.;
Riehm, Handwörterb. des Biblischen Alterthums (these offer explanations
not in harmony with the Gospels or with the historic situation);
Geiger, Das Judenthum und Seine Gesch. 1869, i. 172;
idem. Jüd. Zeit. vi. 256;
Renan, Life of Jesus, ch. xxi.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
159Makarios ptochoi to pneumati is the Greek rendering of this saying, the
original of which was most likely Palestinian Syriac, a particular regional
dialect of Aramaic. The Watchtower Bible and Tract Society  (Jehovah’s
Witnesses) translate this verse as “Happy are those conscious of their
spiritual need” and in the notes gives the alternative “those who are
beggars for the spirit.”  This saying is also found in the Gospel  of Thomas,
logion 54: “Jesus said: Blessed are the poor, for yours is the kingdom of
heaven.”
The  explanatory  notes  that  follow  are  from
http://www.grace4u.org/Topical/Beatitudes.htm: “Carson connects the
Greek with its Hebrew equivalent and gives an etymological summary:
Two words and their cognates stand behind "blessed" and "blessing" in the
NT. The word used in vv. 3-11 is makarios, which corresponds in the LXX
to 'asre, a Hebrew term used almost as an interjection. Usually makarios
describes the man who is singularly favored by God and therefore in some
sense "happy"; but the word can apply to God (1 Tim. 1:11; 6:15). The
other word is  eulogetos, found in the LXX primarily for the Hebrew
berakah, and used chiefly in connection with God in both OT and NT (e.g.,
Mark 14:61; Luke 1:68; Rom. 1:25; 2 Cor. 1:3). Eulogetos does not occur
in Matthew; but the cognate verb appears five times (14:19; 21:9; 23:39;
25:34; 26:26), in one of which it applies to man (25:34), not God or Christ.
Attempts  to  make  makarios mean  "happy"  and  eulogetos "blessed"
(Broadus) are therefore futile; though both appear many times, both can
apply to either God or man. It is difficult not to conclude that their
common factor is approval; man "blesses" God, approving and praising
him; God "blesses" man, approving him in gracious condescension.  The
Beatitudes read like a Psalm; makarios at once recalls the 'ashre of Ps. 1:1.
'Blessed!' intoned again and again, sounds like bells of heaven, ringing
down into this unblessed world from the cathedral spires of the kingdom
inviting all men to enter. The word like its opposite ouai, 'woe', is neither a
wish  regarding  a  coming  condition,  nor  a  description  of  a  present
condition, but a judgment pronounced upon the persons indicated, stating
they must be considered fortunate. 8  Neither passage uses "poor" in the
general social meaning. The enlarged form in Matthew, "the poor in spirit"
(hoi ptochoi to pneumati), brings out the OT and Jewish background of
those who in affliction have confidence only in God (cf. Pss. 69[68]: 28f.,
32f…; 37[36]: 18; Isa. 61:1; Pss. Sol. 10:7; 1QS 4:3 cf. d. Hill,  "The
Gospel  of  Matthew,"  1972,  110f.;  and  "Greek  Words  and  Hebrew
Meanings," 1967, 234, 251).  To understand [poor] its usage, turn to Luke
16:19-22…The word translated "beggar" (vv. 20,22) is the identical word

JESUS † The Complete Biography
translated  "poor" in Matthew 5:3. The beggar was destitute, poverty-
stricken, without any resources whatsoever. The words poor and beggar
come from a root which means "to cover" or "to cringe." It so humiliated a
man to confess he had nothing and was dependent on someone else that
the very act of begging demeaned him. So the beggar would cover his face
and crouch, or cower, as he held out his hand for an alm. He was ashamed
to let the giver know his identity. 12   Christ illustrates the poor in spirit
attitude in the Sermon on the Mount (Matt. 7:1-110; Luke 16:19-22 gives a
physical illustration of poor in spirit; Luke 18:9-14 illustrates the figurative
usage of poor in spirit; Psalm 34:18; 51:17; Isaiah 57:15; 61:1; 66:2
commend the humble beggarly spirit; Matthew 11:25-30; 18:1-3 commend
the  childlike  humility  of  kingdom  citizens;  Isaiah  61:1-3  gives  the
historical background for this beatitude.
7. Carson, D. A . "The Expositors Bible Commentary: Matthew," (Grand
Rapids: Baker Book House, 1978), pg. 131. If Carson is correct , then
makarios does not refer to simple "happiness." Zodhiates would agree:
"This book will point up the basic difference between the two words
'blessed' (makarioi in Greek) and 'happy.' To put it briefly here, 'blessed'
refers to the one whose sufficiency is within him, while 'happy refers to the
one whose sufficiency comes from outside sources…'Happy comes from
the word 'hap,' meaning 'chance.' It is therefore incorrect to translate the
word makarioi (which we find repeatedly in the Beatitudes ) as 'happy.' It
means something far different, in its real sense; it means 'blessed.'" ("The
Pursuit of Happiness," Chattanooga: AMG Press, 1966, preface) John
MacArthur,  Jr.  however  suggests  that  makarios  does  mean  "happy",
stating: "Makarios means happy, fortunate, blissful. Horner used the word
to describe a wealthy man, and Plato used it of one who is successful in
business. Both Homer and Hesiod spoke of the Greek gods as being happy
(makarios) within themselves, because they were unaffected by the world
of men-who were subject to poverty, disease, weakness, misfortune and
death…an inward contentedness that is not affected by circumstances."
("The MacArthur New Testament Commentary: Matthew 1-7," Chicago:
Moody Press, 1985, pg. 142)

JESUS † The Complete Biography
8.  Lenski,  R.C.  H.  "The  Interpretation  of  St.  Matthew's  Gospel,"
(Minneapolis: Augsburg Publishing House, 1943), pg. 183. Thomas states:
"The title 'Beatitudes' is derived from the Latin word beatus. This adjective
is the equivalent of the Hebrew asherey. It describes a state of happy and
successful prosperity. It is not so much a state of inner feeling on the part
of those to whom applied, but rather of blessedness from an ideal point of
view in the judgment of others. It should be distinguished from eulogetos
and its cognates which always render baruk in the O. T. (Allen, p. 39;
M'Neile, p.50; Broadus, pp. 87-88). This latter word looks more at what is
bestowed or attributed from an external source while makarios appeals to
the  absolute  state."  ("Preliminary  Exegetical  Digest  of  Matthew  5-
7,13,24," pg. 14)
9. Watson, Thomas. "The Beatitudes: An Exposition of Matthew 5:1-12,"
(Edinburgh: The Banner of Truth Trust, 1985 reprint), pg. 24.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
10. Brown, Colin. "The New International Dictionary of New Testament
Theology," vol. 2 (Grand Rapids: Zondervan Publishing, 1979) pg. 824.
Brown continues to comment on the usage of ptochos in the Gospels: "The
Synoptic Gospels, in particular, depict Jesus' way of life as one of self-
chosen poverty. This is highlighted by the reply that he gave to a would-be
disciple: "Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests; but the Son of
man has nowhere to lay his head." (Matt. 8:20 par. Lk. 9:58). The disciples
left all in order to follow him (Matt. 4:18-22 par. Mk. 1:16-20; Lk . 5:1-11;
Jn. 1:35-51; cf. also Lk. 13:33). The sale of his possessions and a life of
discipleship in poverty were demanded of the rich young ruler as the
precondition  of  eternal  life  (Matt.  19:  16-22;  Lk.  18:18-24).  On  the
mission  on  which  the  disciples  were  sent  they  were  to  go  without
possessions or provisions (Matt. 10: 1-16; Lk. 9:1-6; 10: 1-12). In this way
of life there was in fact a double separation: from possessions and from
family  ties  (Matt.  10:37ff;  Lk.  14:25-33).  The  life-style  which  Jesus
adopted for Himself and called his disciples to adopt was one which
exemplified the Sermon on the Mount, especially the Beatitudes. But the
particular emphasis on poverty characterized by lack of possessions and
cutting loose from family ties suggests that Jesus identified himself with
the poor in the Beatitude. His whole way of life was thus an act of loving
compassion. At the same time it was a life which deliberately chose to cast
itself on the care of the Father. But in doing so, Jesus was also putting to
the test the people of Israel. By being confronted by Jesus in this way the
responsiveness of Israel faced its supreme test. " (Ibid. pg. 825) And yet, as
the qualifying locative o f sphere "poor in spirit" indicates, the emphasis is
on spiritual poverty and dependence on God.!
11. The word poor is from the Greek ptokas, a noun that means poor in this
world's goods; a beggar, desperately ashamed even to allow his identity to
be known. It is not just poor; it is begging poor. (There is another word in
the Bible for normal poverty, penance, which means you are so poor that
you have to work just to maintain your living.) Ptokas, you have no
resource in yourself even to live. You're totally dependent on somebody
else.  (MacArthur,  John.  "Kingdom  Living  Here  and  Now,"  Chicago:
Moody Press, 1980, pg. 44)
12.Pentecost,  J.  Dwight.  "The  Sermon  on  the  Mount-Contemporary
Insights for a Christian Lifestyle," Portland: Multnomah Press, 1980, pgs.
21,22).

JESUS † The Complete Biography
13.  Pink, A. W. "An Exposition of the Sermon on the Mount," (Grand
Rapids: Baker Book House, 1950), pg. 17. Carson clarifies the meaning of
hoi  ptochoi  toi  pneumati:  "It  is  not  a  man's  confession  that  he  is
ontologically insignificant, or personally without value, for such would be
untrue; it is, rather, a confession that he is sinful and rebellious and utterly
without moral virtues adequate to commend him to God. From within such
a framework, poverty of spirit becomes a general confession of a man's
need for God, a humble admission of impotence without him." (Carson, D.
A. "The Sermon on the Mount-An Evangelical Exposition of Matthew 5-
7," Grand Rapids: Baker Book House, 1978, pg. 17); Wallace speaks with
regard to the syntax and meaning of this construction: "Here the dative
[i.e., the locative of sphere] is practically equivalent to an adverb, thus,
"the spiritually poor." (Wallace, Dan. "Unpublished Grammar Notes on
New  Testament  Greek,"  Dallas  Theological  Seminary,  pg.  57)
Unfortunately  Robert  H.  Schuller  ignores  the  locative  of  sphere
implication and mentions "some areas in your life where you are lacking
and need some help" (pg. 43) such as : occupational poverty (pgs. 21,22),
intellectual poverty (pgs. 22-27), and emotional poverty (pgs. 27-28).
Schuller misses the point completely, by secularizing the beatitude! ("The
Be Happy Attitudes: Eight Positive Attitudes that can Transform Your
Life!" New York: Bantam Books, 1987)
160Also found in the Gospel of Luke (6:20), without the qualifying “in
spirit”:  “Blessed be ye poor: for yours is the kingdom of God.”
161Also found in the Gospel of Luke (6:2): “Blessed are ye that weep now:
for ye shall laugh.”
162Also found in the Gospel of Luke, without the qualifying “hunger and
thirst after righteousness”: “6:21 Blessed are ye that hunger now: for ye
shall be filled.”
163Also found in modified form in the Gospel of Luke: “6:36 Be ye
therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful.”
164Also found in the Gospel of Luke: “6:22 Blessed are ye, when men shall
hate you, and when they shall separate you from their company, and shall
reproach you, and cast out your name as evil, for the Son of man's sake.”
165Also found in the Gospel of Luke: “6:23 Rejoice ye in that day, and leap
for joy: for, behold, your reward is great in heaven: for in the like manner

JESUS † The Complete Biography
did their fathers unto the prophets.”

166Also found in the Gospel of Luke: “14:34 Salt is good: but if the salt
have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be seasoned? 14:35 It is neither fit
for the land, nor yet for the dunghill; but men cast it out. He that hath ears
to hear, let him hear.”  And in the Gospel of Mark: “9:50 Salt is good: but
if the salt have lost his saltness, wherewith will ye season it? Have salt in
yourselves, and have peace one with another.”
167Oxyrhynchus Papyrus

1, logion 7: “Jesus says, A city built on the top of
a high hill and established can neither fall nor be hidden.”
168Also found in the Gospel of Luke: 8:16 No man, when he hath lighted a
candle, covereth it with a vessel, or putteth it under a bed; but setteth it on
a candlestick, that they which enter in may see the light.” “11:33 No man,
when he hath lighted a candle, putteth it in a secret place, neither under a
bushel, but on a candlestick, that they which come in may see the light.”
And in the Gospel of Mark:  “4:21 And he said unto them, Is a candle
brought to be put under a bushel, or under a bed? and not to be set on a
candlestick?”
169Not all Christians understood Jesus to mean this in every case.  The
Gospel of the Ebionites, cited in Epiphanius, Against Heresies, XXX.16.5
reports this saying: “I have come to destroy sacrifices; and if you do not
stop making sacrifices, the wrath (of God) will not leave you.” This saying
is anticipated in the Gospel of Matthew: “9:11 And when the Pharisees
saw it, they said unto his disciples, Why eateth your Master with publicans
and sinners? 9:12 But when Jesus heard that, he said unto them, They that
be whole need not a physician, but they that are sick. 9:13 But go ye and
learn what that meaneth, I will have mercy, and not sacrifice: for I am not
come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.”  “12:3 But he said
unto them, Have ye not read what David did, when he was an hungred, and
they that were with him; 12:4 How he entered into the house of God, and
did eat the shewbread, which was not lawful for him to eat, neither for
them which were with him, but only for the priests? 12:5 Or have ye not
read in the law, how that on the sabbath days the priests in the temple
profane the sabbath, and are blameless? 12:6 But I say unto you, That in
this place is one greater than the temple. 12:7 But if ye had known what
this meaneth, I will have mercy, and not sacrifice, ye would not have
condemned  the  guiltless.”   The  Gospel  of  Luke  also  alludes  to  this
teaching: “12:32 And the scribe said unto him, Well, Master, thou hast

JESUS † The Complete Biography
said the truth: for there is one God; and there is none other but he: 12:33
And to love him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, and with
all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love his neighbour as himself,
is more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. 12:34 And when
Jesus saw that he answered discreetly, he said unto him, Thou art not far
from the kingdom of God. And no man after that durst ask him any
question.”  If Jesus had disagreed with the scribe, and considered “burnt
offerings and sacrifices” indispensable to the salvation of the people,
surely he would have said so…but such a teaching cannot be found in any
of the Gospels.  The Gospel according to the Egyptians, cited by Clement
of Alexandria in the  Miscellanies, III.9.63 reports this saying: “I have
come to destroy the works of the female.”  This saying is anticipated in the
Gospel of Matthew:  “19:12 For there are some eunuchs, which were so
born from their mother's womb: and there are some eunuchs, which were
made eunuchs of men: and there be eunuchs, which have made themselves
eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake. He that is able to receive it, let
him receive it.”  And in the Gospel of Luke:  “7:28 For I say unto you,
Among those that are born of women there is not a greater prophet than
John the Baptist: but he that is least in the kingdom of God is greater than
he.”  Jesus was not misgynistic.  He has the highet regard for his female
disciples, and is generous towards the women who have faith in God and
in his channeling the healing and forgiveness of God to them.  The “works
of the female” could be perceived as a Gnostic association of all things
female with the dark side, with matter and materialism, and hence with
death.  It could also be associated with the sexualization of human life that
dominated  virtually  all  societies  of  the  time—Helenistic,  Roman  and
secularized  Jewish  alike.   For  Jesus,  redemption,  liberation,  spiritual
rebirth had nothing to do with gender or sexuality.  These are male, not in
the sense of masculine but in the sense of neutral, hence his illustration of
meaning by speaking of those who have made themselves “eunuchs for the
kingdom of heaven’s sake.”
170A similar saying is found in the Gospel of Luke: “16:17 And it is easier
for heaven and earth to pass, than one tittle of the law to fail.”  A related
saying is found in the Gospel of Matthew: “24:34 Verily I say unto you,
This generation shall not pass, till all these things be fulfilled. 24:35
Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away.”
And in the Gospel of Mark: “13:30 Verily I say unto you, that this
generation shall not pass, till all these things be done. 13:31 Heaven and
earth shall pass away: but my words shall not pass away.”  And in the
Gospel of Luke: “21:32 Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not

JESUS † The Complete Biography
pass away, till all be fulfilled. 21:33 Heaven and earth shall pass away:
but my words shall not pass away.”
171Exodus 20:13; Deuteronomy 5:17; Gospel of Matthew 19:18.
172Gospel according to the Hebrews

, cited in Jerome,  Commentary on
Ezekiel, 18.7, “And in the Gospel according to the Hebrews, which the
Nazarenes are accustomed to read, one of the greatest sins is “To grieve
the spirit of one’s brother.”  Jerome, Commentary on Ephesians, 5.4, “As
also we read in the Hebrew gospel that the Lord spoke to his disciples:
“And never, “ he said, “be joyful except when you look on your brother
with love.”
173Also found in the Gospel of Luke:  “12:56 Ye hypocrites, ye can discern
the face of the sky and of the earth; but how is it that ye do not discern this
time? 12:57 Yea, and why even of yourselves judge ye not what is right?
12:58 When thou goest with thine adversary to the magistrate, as thou art
in the way, give diligence that thou mayest be delivered from him; lest he
hale thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and the
officer cast thee into prison. 12:59 I tell thee, thou shalt not depart thence,
till thou hast paid the very last mite.”
174Exodus 20:14; Deuteronomy 5:18; Gospel of Matthew 19:18.
175Also found in the Gospel of Mark:  “9:47 And if thine eye offend thee,
pluck it out: it is better for thee to enter into the kingdom of God with one
eye, than having two eyes to be cast into hell fire: 9:48 Where their worm
dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.”
176Also found in the Gospel of Mark: “9:43 And if thy hand offend thee, cut
it off: it is better for thee to enter into life maimed, than having two hands
to go into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched: 9:44 Where their
worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched. 9:45 And if thy foot offend
thee, cut it off: it is better for thee to enter halt into life, than having two
feet to be cast into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched: 9:46
Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.”
177Deuteronomy 24:1.
178Reiterated in the Gospel of  Matthew: “19:7 They say unto him, Why did
Moses then command to give a writing of divorcement, and to put her

JESUS † The Complete Biography
away? 19:8 He saith unto them, Moses because of the hardness of your
hearts suffered you to put away your wives: but from the beginning it was
not so. 19:9 And I say unto you, Whosoever shall put away his wife, except
it be for fornication, and shall marry another, committeth adultery: and
whoso marrieth her which is put away doth commit adultery.”  Also found
in the Gospel of Mark: “10:2 And the Pharisees came to him, and asked
him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife? tempting him. 10:3 And he
answered and said unto them, What did Moses command you? 10:4 And
they said, Moses suffered to write a bill of divorcement, and to put her
away. 10:5 And Jesus answered and said unto them, For the hardness of
your heart he wrote you this precept. 10:6 But from the beginning of the
creation God made them male and female. 10:7 For this cause shall a man
leave his father and mother, and cleave to his wife; 10:8 And they twain
shall be one flesh: so then they are no more twain, but one flesh. 10:9
What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder. 10:10
And in the house his disciples asked him again of the same matter. 10:11
And he saith unto them, Whosoever shall put away his wife, and marry
another, committeth adultery against her. 10:12 And if a woman shall put
away her husband, and be married to another, she committeth adultery.”
Also found in the Gospel of Luke: “16:18 Whosoever putteth away his
wife, and marrieth another, committeth adultery: and whosoever marrieth
her that is put away from her husband committeth adultery.”
179Exodus 22:11; Leviticus 6:1-5, 19:12; Numbers 30:2; Deuteronomy
6:13, 10:20.
180Also found in the Epistle of James: “5:12 But above all things, my
brethren, swear not, neither by heaven, neither by the earth, neither by any
other oath: but let your yea be yea; and your nay, nay; lest ye fall into
condemnation.”

181Exodus 21:24; Deuteronomy 19:21; Leviticus 24:20.
182Also found in the Gospel of Luke: “6:29 And unto him that smiteth thee
on the one cheek offer also the other; and him that taketh away thy cloak
forbid not to take thy coat also.”
183Also found in the Gospel of Luke: “6:29 And unto him that smiteth thee
on the one cheek offer also the other; and him that taketh away thy cloak
forbid not to take thy coat also.”

JESUS † The Complete Biography
184Also found in the Gospel of Luke: “6:30 Give to every man that asketh
of thee; and of him that taketh away thy goods ask them not again.”
185The first part of this citation is found in Leviticus 19:17-18: “19:17 Thou
shalt not hate thy brother in thine heart: thou shalt in any wise rebuke thy
neighbour, and not suffer sin upon him. 19:18 Thou shalt not avenge, nor
bear any grudge against the children of thy people, but thou shalt love thy
neighbour as thyself: I am the LORD.”  It is also confirmed in Zechariah:
“8:16 These are the things that ye shall do; Speak ye every man the truth
to his neighbour; execute the judgment of truth and peace in your gates:
8:17  And  let  none  of  you  imagine  evil  in  your  hearts  against  his
neighbour; and love no false oath: for all these are things that I hate, saith
the LORD.”  There are also many laws that encourage the fair and friendly
treatment of neighbors, set forth in Exodus and Deuteronomy.  Allusions
to the latter half of this statement are found in at least three sources.  The
first cited is from the song of Moses in Deuteronomy:  “32:41 If I whet my
glittering sword, and mine hand take hold on judgment; I will render
vengeance to mine enemies, and will reward them that hate me. 32:42 I
will make mine arrows drunk with blood, and my sword shall devour flesh;
and that with the blood of the slain and of the captives, from the beginning
of revenges upon the enemy. 32:43 Rejoice, O ye nations, with his people:
for he will avenge the blood of his servants, and will render vengeance to
his adversaries, and will be merciful unto his land, and to his people.”
Another reference is in the Second Book of Chronicles:  “19:2 And Jehu
the son of Hanani the seer went out to meet him, and said to king
Jehoshaphat, Shouldest thou help the ungodly, and love them that hate the
LORD? therefore is wrath upon thee from before the LORD.”  Another
reference is in the Psalms: “139:19 Surely thou wilt slay the wicked, O
God: depart from me therefore, ye bloody men. 139:20 For they speak
against thee wickedly, and thine enemies take thy name in vain. 139:21 Do
not I hate them, O LORD, that hate thee? and am not I grieved with those
that rise up against thee? 139:22 I hate them with perfect hatred: I count
them mine enemies.”
186Also found in the Gospel of Luke: “6:27 But I say unto you which hear,
Love your enemies, do good to them which hate you, 6:28 Bless them that
curse you, and pray for them which despitefully use you. 6:29 And unto
him that smiteth thee on the one cheek offer also the other; and him that
taketh away thy cloak forbid not to take thy coat also. 6:30 Give to every
man that asketh of thee; and of him that taketh away thy goods ask them

JESUS † The Complete Biography
not again. 6:31 And as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to
them likewise.”
187Also found in the Gospel of Luke: “6:32 For if ye love them which love
you, what thank have ye? for sinners also love those that love them. 6:33
And if ye do good to them which do good to you, what thank have ye? for
sinners also do even the same. 6:34 And if ye lend to them of whom ye
hope to receive, what thank have ye? for sinners also lend to sinners, to
receive as much again. 6:35 But love ye your enemies, and do good, and
lend, hoping for nothing again; and your reward shall be great, and ye
shall be the children of the Highest: for he is kind unto the unthankful and
to the evil.”  There is a paraphrase of this principle in the Second Epistle
of Clement, 13.4: God said, “It is not credit to you if you love those who
love you; but it is a credit to you if you love your enemies and those who
hate you.”
188Deuteronmy 18:13.  Also found in modified form in the Gospel of Luke:
“6:36 Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful. 6:37 Judge
not,  and  ye  shall  not  be  judged:  condemn  not,  and  ye  shall  not  be
condemned: forgive, and ye shall be forgiven: 6:38 Give, and it shall be
given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and
running over, shall men give into your bosom. For with the same measure
that ye mete withal it shall be measured to you again.”
189Isaiah 26:20.
190The same prayer is found in the Gospel of Luke:  “11:2 And he said unto
them, When ye pray, say, Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy
name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, as in heaven, so in earth. 11:3
Give us day by day our daily bread. 11:4 And forgive us our sins; for we
also  forgive  every  one  that  is  indebted  to  us.  And  lead  us  not  into
temptation; but deliver us from evil.”
191Also found in the Gospel of Luke: “11:2 And he said unto them, When
ye pray, say, Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. Thy
kingdom come. Thy will be done, as in heaven, so in earth. 11:3 Give us
day by day our daily bread. 11:4 And forgive us our sins; for we also
forgive every one that is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation;
but deliver us from evil.”

JESUS † The Complete Biography
192Reiterated elsewhere in the Gospel of Matthew: “18:35 So likewise shall
my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not
every one his brother their trespasses.”  Also found in the Gospel of Mark:
“11:25 And when ye stand praying, forgive, if ye have ought against any:
that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses.
11:26 But if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father which is in heaven
forgive your trespasses.”
193Also found modified in the Gospel of Luke: “12:33 Sell that ye have,
and give alms; provide yourselves bags which wax not old, a treasure in
the heavens that faileth not, where no thief approacheth, neither moth
corrupteth.”
194Also found modified in the Gospel of Luke: “12:34 For where your
treasure is, there will your heart be also.”
195Also found in the Gospel of Luke: “11:34 The light of the body is the
eye: therefore when thine eye is single, thy whole body also is full of light;
but when thine eye is evil, thy body also is full of darkness. 11:35 Take
heed therefore that the light which is in thee be not darkness. 11:36 If thy
whole body therefore be full of light, having no part dark, the whole shall
be full of light, as when the bright shining of a candle doth give thee light.”
196Also found in the Gospel of Luke: “16:11 If therefore ye have not been
faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true
riches? 16:12 And if ye have not been faithful in that which is another
man's, who shall give you that which is your own? 16:13 No servant can
serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or
else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God
and mammon.”
197Also found in the Gospel of Luke: “12:22 And he said unto his disciples,
Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat;
neither for the body, what ye shall put on. 12:23 The life is more than
meat, and the body is more than raiment. 12:24 Consider the ravens: for
they neither sow nor reap; which neither have storehouse nor barn; and
God feedeth them: how much more are ye better than the fowls? 12:25
And which of you with taking thought can add to his stature one cubit?
12:26 If ye then be not able to do that thing which is least, why take ye
thought for the rest? 12:27 Consider the lilies how they grow: they toil not,
they spin not; and yet I say unto you, that Solomon in all his glory was not

JESUS † The Complete Biography
arrayed like one of these. 12:28 If then God so clothe the grass, which is to
day in the field, and to morrow is cast into the oven; how much more will
he clothe you, O ye of little faith? 12:29 And seek not ye what ye shall eat,
or what ye shall drink, neither be ye of doubtful mind. 12:30 For all these
things do the nations of the world seek after: and your Father knoweth that
ye have need of these things. 12:31 But rather seek ye the kingdom of God;
and all these things shall be added unto you.”
198Also found in the Gospel of Luke: “6:37 Judge not, and ye shall not be
judged: condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned: forgive, and ye shall
be forgiven: 6:38 Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure,
pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall men give into
your bosom. For with the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be
measured to you again. 6:39 And he spake a parable unto them, Can the
blind lead the blind? shall they not both fall into the ditch? 6:40 The
disciple is not above his master: but every one that is perfect shall be as
his master. 6:41 And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's
eye, but perceivest not the beam that is in thine own eye? 6:42 Either how
canst thou say to thy brother, Brother, let me pull out the mote that is in
thine eye, when thou thyself beholdest not the beam that is in thine own
eye? Thou hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of thine own eye, and then
shalt thou see clearly to pull out the mote that is in thy brother's eye.”
199Also found in the  Didache, 9.5: “But let no one eat or drinkof your
Eucharist, except those who have been baptized in the name of the Lord;
for concerning this the Lord has said, ‘Do not give dogs what is holy.’”
200Also found in the Gospel of Luke: “11:9 And I say unto you, Ask, and it
shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened
unto you. 11:10 For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh
findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. 11:11 If a son shall
ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? or if he
ask a fish, will he for a fish give him a serpent? 11:12 Or if he shall ask an
egg, will he offer him a scorpion? 11:13 If ye then, being evil, know how to
give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your heavenly
Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?”  Also see, the Gospel
according to the Hebrews, cited by Clement of Alexandria in Miscellanies,
V.14; the Gospel of Thomas, Logion 2; and Oxyrhynchus Papyrus 654,
Logion 1.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
201Also found in the Gospel of Luke: “6:31 And as ye would that men
should do to you, do ye also to them likewise.”  Also see Tobit 4:15 and
Ecclesiasticus 31:15.
202Also found in the Gospel of Luke: “13:23 Then said one unto him, Lord,
are there few that be saved? And he said unto them, 13:24 Strive to enter
in at the strait gate: for many, I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and
shall not be able.”
203Also found in variant form in the Gospel of Mark: “13:21 And then if
any man shall say to you, Lo, here is Christ; or, lo, he is there; believe him
not: 13:22 For false Christs and false prophets shall rise, and shall shew
signs and wonders, to seduce, if it were possible, even the elect.”  The First
Epistle of John defines false Christs and false prophets: “4:1 Beloved,
believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God:
because many false prophets are gone out into the world. 4:2 Hereby know
ye the Spirit of God: Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come
in the flesh is of God: 4:3 And every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus
Christ is come in the flesh is not of God: and this is that spirit of antichrist,
whereof ye have heard that it should come; and even now already is it in
the world.”
204Also found elsewhere in the Gospel of Matthew: “12:33 Either make the
tree good, and his fruit good; or else make the tree corrupt, and his fruit
corrupt: for the tree is known by his fruit. 12:34 O generation of vipers,
how can ye, being evil, speak good things? for out of the abundance of the
heart the mouth speaketh. 12:35 A good man out of the good treasure of
the heart bringeth forth good things: and an evil man out of the evil
treasure bringeth forth evil things.”  Also it is in the Gospel of Luke:
“6:43 For a good tree bringeth not forth corrupt fruit; neither doth a
corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. 6:44 For every tree is known by his
own fruit. For of thorns men do not gather figs, nor of a bramble bush
gather they grapes. 6:45 A good man out of the good treasure of his heart
bringeth forth that which is good; and an evil man out of the evil treasure
of his heart   bringeth forth that which is evil: for of the abundance of the
heart his mouth speaketh.”
205Also found in the Gospel of Luke: “6:46 And why call ye me, Lord,
Lord, and do not the things which I say?”

JESUS † The Complete Biography
206Also found in parable form in the Gospel of Luke: “13:26 Then shall ye
begin to say, We have eaten and drunk in thy presence, and thou hast
taught in our streets. 13:27 But he shall say, I tell you, I know you not
whence ye are; depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity.”
207Also found in somewhat different form in the Gospel of Luke: “6:47
Whosoever cometh to me, and heareth my sayings, and doeth them, I will
shew you to whom he is like: 6:48 He is like a man which built an house,
and digged deep, and laid the foundation on a rock: and when the flood
arose, the stream beat vehemently upon that house, and could not shake it:
for it was founded upon a rock. 6:49 But he that heareth, and doeth not, is
like a man that without a foundation built an house upon the earth; against
which the stream did beat vehemently, and immediately it fell; and the ruin
of that house was great.”
208This statement is also found in the Gospel of Mark: “1:21 And they went
into Capernaum; and straightway on the sabbath day he entered into the
synagogue, and taught.  1:22 And they were astonished at his doctrine: for
he taught them as one that had authority, and not as the scribes.”  The
version in the Gospel of Luke is virtually identical to this: “4:31 And came
down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and taught them on the sabbath
days. 4:32 And they were astonished at his doctrine: for his word was with
power.”
209Also in the Gospel of Matthew 5:3, 5:4, 5:6, 5:11, 5:12.
210Also in the Gospel of Matthew: “5:39 But I say unto you, That ye resist
not evil: but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the
other also. 5:40 And if any man will sue thee at the law, and take away thy
coat, let him have thy cloak also. 5:41 And whosoever shall compel thee to
go a mile, go with him twain. 5:42 Give to him that asketh thee, and from
him that would borrow of thee turn not thou away. 5:43 Ye have heard that
it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbour, and hate thine enemy.
5:44 But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do
good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you,
and persecute you; 5:45 That ye may be the children of your Father which
is in heaven: for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and
sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. 5:46 For if ye love them which
love you, what reward have ye? do not even the publicans the same? 5:47
And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? do not
even the publicans so?

JESUS † The Complete Biography
211Also in the Gospel of Matthew: “7:12 Therefore all things whatsoever ye
would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law
and the prophets.”
212Also found in the Gospel of Matthew: “5:46 For if ye love them which
love you, what reward have ye? do not even the publicans the same? 5:47
And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? do not
even the publicans so?”
213Also found in the Gospel of Matthew: “5:45 That ye may be the children
of your Father which is in heaven: for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil
and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust…5:48 Be
ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect.”
214Leprosy (from the Greek lepi, meaning scales on a fish), or Hansen's
disease (HD), is a chronic disease caused by the bacteria Mycobacterium
leprae and  Mycobacterium  lepromatosis.[1][2] Leprosy  is  primarily  a
granulomatous disease of the peripheral nerves and mucosa of the upper
respiratory tract; skin lesions are the primary external symptom.[3] Left
untreated, leprosy can be progressive, causing permanent damage to the
skin, nerves, limbs and eyes. Contrary to popular belief, leprosy does not
directly cause body parts to fall off on their own accord;[4] instead they
become  disfigured  or  amputated  as  a  result  of  disease  symptoms.[5]
Historically, leprosy has affected mankind since at least 4,000 years ago,[6]
and was well-recognized in the civilizations of ancient China, Egypt, and
India,[7] but it is unknown if it is the same disease mentioned in the Hebrew
Bible.[8] In 1995, the  World Health Organization (WHO) estimated that
between 2 and 3 million people were permanently disabled because of
leprosy.[9]  (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leprosy)
215“Interestingly,  the  normal  Greek  word  for  “servant”  or  “slave”,  is
“doulos”. But the word that the Centurion uses for his servant, is the Greek
word: “pais” … (which means: “a child in relation to descent. A boy or
girl”).
And as William Hendrickson wrote: “It is true that it was not completely
unusual for the phrase “my boy” (pais) to be used for “slave” or “servant”.
Yet the present context – (note the Centurion’s manifest concern and
affection for him, when Luke says “he was dear to him”) – shows that, in
this situation, the term is used in its most favorable sense, as a term of
endearment.”
(http://www.firstboynton.com/resources/podcast/2009/01/11-behold-the-

JESUS † The Complete Biography
miracles-of-jesus-pt-2-the-centurions-servant)  “For many centuries before
Matthew  and  Luke  wrote  their  Gospels,  the  Greek  word  pais was
commonly used to refer to the younger partner in a same sex relationship.
The  younger  partner  was  often  an  adult  male  but  was  sometimes  a
teenager.  The use of pais in this social and historical context leads some
to believe that the story of the Roman centurion and his pais in Matthew 8
and Luke 7 tells the real story of the day Jesus met and blessed a gay man.
Although this understanding of the text is controversial, it is important for
us to discuss and understand it in our conversation about the Bible and
homosexuality. As we begin our study of this true story about a gay
Centurion,  from  Matthew  8:5-13  &  Luke  7:1-10,  it  is  important  to
remember that we are two thousand years removed from these events. For
that reason, traditionalists cannot prove their contention, that the centurion
and his pais-servant, were not same sex lovers. It is equally impossible to
prove to everyone’s satisfaction, that this was a gay centurion and his pais-
beloved-gay lover. (http://www.gaychristian101.com/Gay-Centurion.html)
216A centurion (Latin: centurio; Greek: κεντυρίων), also hecatontarch in
Greek sources (Greek: ἑκατόνταρχος or, in Byzantine times, κένταρχος)
was a professional officer of the Roman army after the Marian reforms of
107 BC. Most centurions commanded a century (centuria) of 80 men, but
senior centurions commanded  cohorts, or took senior staff roles in their
legion… “The centurion in the infantry is chosen for his size, strength and
dexterity in throwing his missile weapons and for his skill in the use of his
sword and shield; in short for his expertness in all the exercises. He is to be
vigilant, temperate, active and readier to execute the orders he receives
than to talk; Strict in exercising and keeping up proper discipline among
his soldiers, in obliging them to appear clean and well-dressed and to have
their arms constantly rubbed and bright.” (Vegetius. De Re Militari, [9] II,
14 )  (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Centurion)
217Gadarenes,  Girgesees,  Gerasenes—“These  three  names  are  used
indiscriminately to designate the place where Jesus healed two demoniacs.
The first two are in the Authorized Version (Mt 8:28; Mr 5:1; Lu 8:26) in
Gerasenes in place of Gadarenes. The miracle referred to took place,
without doubt, near the town of Gergesa, the modern Kersa, close by the
eastern  shore  of  the  Sea  of  Galilee,  and  hence  in  the  country  of
Gergesenes. But as Gergesa was a small village, and little known, the
evangelists, who wrote for more distant readers, spoke of the event as
taking place in the country of the Gadarenes, so named from its largest
city, Gadara; and this country included the country of the Gergesenes as a

JESUS † The Complete Biography
state includes a county. The Gerasenes were the people of the district of
which Gerasa was the capital. This city was better known than Gadara or
Gergesa; indeed in the Roman age no city of Palestine was better known.
"It became one of the proudest cities of Syria." It was situated some 30
miles southeast of Gadara, on the borders of Peraea and a little north of the
river Jabbok. It is now called Jerash and is a deserted ruin. The district of
the  Gerasenes  probably  included  that  of  the  Gadarenes;  so  that  the
demoniac of Gergesa belonged to the country of the Gadarenes and also to
that of the Gerasenes, as the same person may, with equal truth, be said to
live in the city or the state, or in the United States. For those near by the
local name would be used; but in writing to a distant people, as the Greeks
and Romans, the more comprehensive and general name would be given.”
(Smith, William, Dr "Definition for 'Gadarenes, Girgesenes, Gerasenes' in
Smiths

Bible

Dictionary,

1901:
http://www.bible-history.com/smiths/G/Gadarenes,+Girgesenes,
+Gerasenes/)
218http://concordances.org/greek/752.htm


219http://eteacherhebrew.com/Hebrew-Names/jair-yair-yair


220http://www.bible-history.com/geography/ancient-israel/nain.html


http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nein:
Nein (Arabic:  نين,  Na'in, lit.  Charming,  Hebrew:  ניין, called in  English
Bibles Nain or Naim) is an Arab village in Israel that forms part of the
Bustan  al-Marj  Regional  Council in  the  Lower  Galilee.  Located  14
kilometers  (8.7 mi)  south  of  Nazareth,  Nein  covers  a  land  area  of
approximately 1,000 dunums. Its total land area consisted of 3,737 dunums
prior to 1962.[1] According to the Israeli Central Bureau of Statistics, Nein
had a population 1,600 in 2005.[2] The city hall for the Bustan al-Marj
Regional Council is located in Nein.[3]
221The story to which Jesus refers is in the First Book of Samuel: “21:1
And he arose and departed; and Jonathan went into the city. 1 21:2 Then
came David to Nob to Ahimelech the priest; and Ahimelech came to meet
David trembling, and said unto him: 'Why art thou alone, and no man with
thee?'   21:3 And David said unto Ahimelech the priest: 'The king hath
commanded me a business, and hath said unto me: Let no man know any

JESUS † The Complete Biography
thing of the business whereabout I send thee, and what I have commanded
thee; and the young men have I appointed to such and such a place.  21:4
Now therefore what is under thy hand? five loaves of bread? give them in
my hand, or whatsoever there is present.'  21:5 And the priest answered
David, and said: 'There is no common bread under my hand, but there is
holy bread; if only the young men have kept themselves from women.'
21:6 And David answered the priest, and said unto him: 'Of a truth women
have been kept from us about these three days; when I came out, the
vessels of the young men were holy, though it was but a common journey;
how much more then to-day, when there shall be holy bread in their
vessels?'  21:7 So the priest gave him holy bread; for there was no bread
there but the showbread, that was taken from before the LORD, to put hot
bread in the day when it was taken away.”
222Gospel of the Ebionites

, cited in Epiphanius, Against Heresies,
XXX.14.5.
223http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eleazar_ben_Simon


Eleazar ben Simon was a Zealot leader during the First Jewish-Roman
War who fought against the armies of Cestius Gallus, Vespasian, and Titus
Flavius. From the onset of the war in 66 CE until the destruction of the
temple in 70 CE, he fought vehemently against the Roman garrisons in
Judea  and  against  his  fellow  Jewish  political  opponents  in  order  to
establish an independent Jewish state at Jerusalem. Although the Jewish
defeat at Jerusalem cannot be entirely attributed to Eleazar ben Simon, his
inability to establish unity with John of Gischala and Simon bar Giora
resulted in a bitter civil war that weakened the Jewish resistance against
Rome. Eleazar ben Simon and his Zealots' radical anti-Roman policies and
eradication of the moderate temple aristocracy from Jerusalem in 67 CE
also prevented any peaceful agreement with Rome to avoid the death and
destruction which ensued in 70 CE.
224Psalm 110:1.
225Psalm 118:22.
226Psalm 110:1.
227Genesis 4:8.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
228Zechariah 1:1.
229What does he mean by these verses?
“23:37 O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets, and
stonest them which are sent unto thee, how often would I have
gathered  thy  children  together,  even  as  a  hen  gathereth  her
chickens under her wings, and ye would not! 23:38 Behold, your
house is left unto you desolate.”
It is the prophetic spirit in Jesus which has returned again and again to
guide the children of Israel towards God, and they have rejected this spirit
again and again, and consequently the house of Israel “if left unto you
desolate”.
The apostle Stephen says the same in the Book of Acts:
7:51  Ye stiffnecked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do
always  resist  the  Holy  Ghost:  as  your  fathers  did,  so  do  ye.
7:52  Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted? and
they have slain them which shewed before of the coming of the Just
One; of whom ye have been now the betrayers and murderers:
The Epistle to the Hebrews refers to these sufferings of the holy men of
Israel:
11:32  And what shall I more say? for the time would fail me to tell of
Gedeon, and of Barak, and of Samson, and of Jephthae; of David
also, and Samuel, and of the prophets: 11:33  Who through faith
subdued  kingdoms,  wrought  righteousness,  obtained  promises,
stopped the mouths of lions, 11:34  Quenched the violence of fire,
escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong,
waxed valiant in fight, turned to  flight the armies of the  aliens.
11:35  Women received their dead raised to life again: and others were

JESUS † The Complete Biography
tortured, not accepting deliverance; that they might obtain a better
resurrection:  11:36  And  others  had  trial  of  cruel  mockings  and
scourgings, yea, moreover of bonds and imprisonment: 11:37  They
were stoned, they were sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with
the sword: they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins; being
destitute, afflicted, tormented; 11:38  (Of whom the world was not
worthy:) they wandered in deserts, and in mountains, and in dens
and caves of the earth.
The testimony to the rejections of these holy ones are not easy to find.
There are, nevertheless, some Biblical references.  The book of Jeremiah
refers to his imprisonment:
20:1  Now Pashur the son of Immer the priest, who was also chief
governor  in  the  house  of  the  LORD,  heard  that  Jeremiah
prophesied these things. 20:2  Then Pashur smote Jeremiah the
prophet, and put him in the stocks that were in the high gate of
Benjamin, which was by the house of the LORD.
The Second Book of Chronicles reports the sufferings of the prophet
Zechariah:
24:20  And the Spirit of God came upon Zechariah the son of
Jehoiada the priest, which stood above the people, and said unto
them, Thus saith God, Why transgress ye the commandments of the
LORD, that ye cannot prosper? because ye have forsaken the
LORD,  he  hath  also  forsaken  you.  24:21  And  they  conspired
against him, and stoned him with stones at the commandment of the
king in the court of the house of the LORD.
The detailed account of the persecutions of the prophets is actually to be
found in The Lives of the Prophets, about which we find that “The work
survives only in Christian manuscripts which contain numerous additions

JESUS † The Complete Biography
that support Christian theology, but some of its stories are repeated in
Jewish midrashic and Talmudic accounts.”   One source for these accounts
is http://www.newworldencyclopedia.org/entry/Lives_of_the_Prophets
Isaiah.  Following  the  tradition  found  in  the  Jewish  sections  of  the
apocryphal Ascension of Isaiah, the text reports that this  prophet was
killed by being sawed in two under the evil King Manasseh of Judah. A
tradition is preserved that the miraculous powers of the waters of the Pool
of Siloam (see John 9) were initiated as a result of Isaiah's prayer.
Jeremiah. Having escaped death several times previously, Jeremiah was
later stoned to death by "his people" at Taphnai in Egypt and buried in
honor near  Pharaoh’s palace, because his prayers had delivered the
Egyptians from poisonous snakes and other plagues.[1] His relics were
reportedly moved to  Alexandria and placed in a circle around the city,
which was consequently likewise protected from asps and crocodiles.
Ezekiel. This great prophet is said to have died in Babylonia where "the
leader  of  the  Israelite  exiles"  killed  him  after  being  reproved  for
worshiping of idols. Ezekiel was reportedly buried in the grave of Shem,
after which the Tomb of the Patriarchs in Hebron was modeled. The text
also  preserves  an  alternate  tradition  that  Ezekiel  was  killed  by  an
unidentified member of either the tribe of Dan or Gad, who had blamed
him for cursing their children and flocks.
Micah. He is reported to have been killed by Joram of Israel, the son of
King  Ahab,  after  Micah  rebuked  him  for  Ahab's  impiety.  And  was
reportedly  buried  in  his  home  district  on  the  "burial  ground  of  the
Anakim"—the race of giants who were conquered by Caleb. The story of
Joram's  killing  Micah  is  unlikely,  however,  since  Micah  prophesied
around 735–700 B.C.E., more than a century  after Joram's reign. The
author may confuse this Micah with Micaiah son of Imlah, who was indeed
a thorn in Ahab's side (1 Kings 22:1)
Amos. This northern prophet was tortured severely by Amaziah, the priest
of  Bethel, against whom  Amos had prophesied. He was then mortally
wounded with a club by Amaziah's son. Amos was able to make his way
back to his own district of Tekoa, where he soon died and was buried
there.
.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
Zechariah. He returned to Jerusalem from Babylonia as an old man and
became a very active prophet in the holy city. It was he who named
Shealtiel's son Zerubbabel and blessed him. The text claims that Zechariah
had earlier prophesied the victories of Cyrus the Great of Persia and his
role in allowing the Jews to return and rebuild Jerusalem.[3] He died at a
great age and was buried near Haggai.
Zechariah son of Jehoiada. This Zechariah was the high priest's son who
denounced his cousin, King Jehoash of Judah, and was immediately stoned
to death in the Temple courtyard. He was buried with his father Jehoiada.
From that time on several unspecified bad omens occurred in the Temple,
and the priests' visionary and oracular powers of the priests came to an
end.
Another  source  is  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lives_of_the_Prophets
which discusses the origins of the work:
The work survives only in Christian manuscripts. There are two groups of
Greek manuscripts: the first group includes many versions, well known in
the past centuries, with heavy Christians additions. Some of these versions
were attributed to Epiphanius of Salamis,[1] others to Dorotheus of Tyre.[2]
The other group of Greek manuscripts is more stable and free from the
interpolations found in the previous group: the best codex is a 6th century
CE manuscript[3] usually referred to as  Q or as  anonymous recension.
There is also a  Latin version with a text near to Q used by  Isidore of
Seville (before 636 CE). There are also versions in Syriac, Armenian, and
Arabic.
Original Language and Date
There  is  not consensus  among scholars about the original language.
Torrey[4] proposed  Hebrew,  other  authors  proposed  Aramaic.[5] The
preferred use of quotations from the Septuagint suggests a Greek original
with semitic coloring.[6]
Authenticating  the  dating  is  highly  problematic  due  to  the  Christian
transmission and presumed expansions. Most scholars consider this work
to be of Jewish origin dating the 1st century CE. Torrey[4] suggests a date
before 106 CE. Hare[6] the first quarter of the 1st century CE. Satran[7]
proposes an early  Byzantine origin in the 4th-5th century on previous
materials.

JESUS † The Complete Biography
230Psalm 118:22.
231Psalm 110:1.
232http://www.pseudepigrapha.com/LostBooks/lettersJesusAbgarus.htm


233 ?http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/01042c.htm
234http://www.pseudepigrapha.com/LostBooks/


lettersJesusAbgarus.htm
235http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/01042c.htm


236http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abgar_V_of_Edessa


237Zechariah 13:7.
238Gospel of John 17:12; Psalm 109:8.
239http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eleazar


240Zechariah 11:12-13. The ghost writer of this Gospel didn’t check his
sources carefully or he would have verified that this passage is not from
the Book of Jeremiah, but rather from the Book of Zechariah. Jeremiah
32:9 refers to purchase of a track of land for 17 shekels of silver.
241Psalms 69:21.
242http://concordances.org/greek/2665.htm


243http://www.infidels.org/library/modern/richard_carrier/thallus.html


244Psalms 34:20.
245Zechariah 12:10.
246Psalm 16:10.
247http://www.livius.org/he-hg/herodians/julius_m_agrippa_ii.html



JESUS † The Complete Biography
Julius Marcus Agrippa: oriental king, ruled 48-100. He was the last
important descendant of king Herod the Great.
Julius Marcus Agrippa was born in 27 or 28 in Rome was the son
of the Jewish prince Herod Agrippa and his wife Cyprus. When his father
had to flee from his creditors, the boy visited Palestine for the first time -
he must have been five years old. When his father returned to Rome in 36,
Julius Marcus and his mother had to stay behind.
The elder Agrippa's career had not been very successful: he had
lost his fortune, had gone bankrupt, had fled, had found a job in Galilee
(where his uncle  Herod Antipas ruled) and had lost this job. When he
returned to Rome, he was imprisoned. However, he was released by the
new emperor Caligula and made king of the territories that had once been
ruled by his uncle  Philip. Soon, new provinces were added, and in 41,
father Agrippa had reunited the complete kingdom of his grandfather, king
Herod the Great.
The younger Agrippa was sent back to Rome to finish his studies.
He was fourteen years old; and he was sixteen or seventeen when his
father died unexpectedly in the summer of 44. Julius Marcus Agrippa was
too young to be king and his father's territories became a Roman province.
The Roman government was obliged to offer the disinherited boy
a kingdom of his own. In 48, his uncle Herod of Chalcis died, a brother of
his father. (Chalcis was an independent town, halfway between Beyrouth
and  Damascus.)  It  is  probable  that  Julius  Marcus  Agrippa  also  was
responsible for the temple in  Jerusalem: he had the right to appoint the
high priest.
He may have stayed in Rome until 53, when the emperor Claudius
added the territories that had once been ruled by his father's uncle Philip to
his realms: the Golan heights and several adjacent countries. To control
him, Claudius appointed a powerful procurator in Samaria and Judaea,
Marcus Antonius Felix, the brother of Claudius' adviser Pallas. One year
later, Claudius' successor Nero added the city of Tiberias (the capital of
Galilee) and parts of Peraea (the east bank of the river Jordan).
The young king took his residence in Jerusalem and Caesarea. In
the first city, he enlarged the royal palace and renovated the temple; in the
second, he met the Christian apostle Paul in 58. These two towns were also
the residences of the Roman  governor of  Judaea, and they must have
cooperated closely. In his own kingdom, he refounded the town Panias and
named it after the emperor Nero: Neronias.
In  63,  the  temple  was  completed,  which  caused  some  unrest
among the artisans now unemployed. It was not the only disturbance.
Roman taxation had impoverished the working class of Judaea and there

JESUS † The Complete Biography
was a food shortage. In 65 or 66, the situation escalated, when Marcus
Julius Agrippa was in Alexandria; people were killed in a tax riot and the
Roman  governor  Gessius  Florus  crucified  some  bystanders.  Agrippa's
sister Berenice witnessed the atrocities, but was unable to prevent them.
Agrippa returned, delivered a speech to dissuade the Jerusalem populace
from revolt, but failed.
War had become inevitable (more) and Agrippa sided with the
Romans.  Their  legions  were  commanded  by  Vespasian,  a  successful
commander, who started to reconquer Galilee and Judaea.
In June 68, the Roman attack was slowed down, because the
emperor  Nero  was  killed  and  a  new  emperor  was  chosen,  Galba.
Vespasian sent his son Titus to Rome to congratulate the new ruler; in his
company were king Agrippa and queen Berenice, who had become Titus'
lover. When they learned that Galba had been killed in January 69, Titus
and  Berenice  went  home,  but  Agrippa  continued  to  Italy,  where  he
witnessed the civil war: he must have met the new emperors  Otho and
Vitellius, and he must have been in Rome when heard that Vespasian had
decided to rebel.
Agrippa hastened home in the first weeks of 70, at the right
moment  to  be  present  when  Titus,  who  had  succeeded  his  father  as
commander, attacked Jerusalem. He must have witnessed the destruction
of the temple that he had renovated himself.
In 75, Agrippa was back in Rome, where he must have been
present when Vespasian inaugurated the Forum of Peace (a public garden
in the center of Rome), must have met his wife Berenice, and received new
territories in Syria: Arca, east of modern Tripoli.
There was not much left that would have made him a Jewish king:
the temple was destroyed, his realm was situated in Syria and only a few
of his inhabitants were Jews.
He must have continued to rule for some twenty-five years. An
inscribed lead weight found in the neighborhood of Tiberias mentions his
forty-third regnal year (i.e., 97/98) and the  Byzantine scholar Photius
informs us that he has read that Agrippa died in the third year of the
Roman emperor  Trajan (100). There are indications that he lost some
territories after 93, and what remained was incorporated in the Roman
empire in 100.
It is unclear whether he left behind a family. Our sources do not
mention any children.
248http://www.livius.org/ap-ark/apollonius/life/va_1_11.html#%A711



JESUS † The Complete Biography
249http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ritual_washing_in_Judaism


Philo of Alexandria refers to ritual washing in the context of the Temple
and Leviticus, but also speaks of spiritual "washing."[1] At Qumran basins
which served as baths have been identified, and among the Dead Sea
scrolls  texts  on  maintaining  ritual  purity  reflect  the  requirements  of
Leviticus.[2]
[1] Jutta Leonhardt Jewish worship in Philo of Alexandria Page 270 - 2001
3 Ritual washing Washing is used for ritual purification in the context of
the Temple worship. In Som. I 81 Philo quotes Lev 22 6 f, which states that
no one is permitted to eat from holy things "unless the body is washed with
water" ..."
[2] The Qumran community - Page 92 Michael Anthony Knibb - 1987 -"10-
13, and amongst the many cisterns at Qumran two basins have been
identif1ed which served as baths and were perhaps used for ... Unclean,
unclean shall he be as long as he rejects the precepts of God: the language
is drawn from Lev."
250http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ritual_washing_in_Judaism



A zav, ejaculant with an unusual discharge.
251http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ritual_washing_in_Judaism


252http://www.boskoministries.com/lessons/yeshua/yeshua2.htm


253 http://mb-soft.com/believe/txua/book01.htm
254http://mb-soft.com/believe/txv/earlychu.htm


Saint Clement, d. AD 101, called Clement of Rome, was the bishop of
Rome, or pope, from c.92 to 101. According to Irenæus, he was the third
successor of St. Peter. Little is known of his life; the main source of
information is his Epistle to the Corinthians (c.96), the earliest piece of
Christian literature other than New Testament writings for which the name
of the author is certain. The high esteem in which Clement was held is
evident from the fact that until the 4th century his letter was accepted by
some as Scripture. He is one of the Apostolic Fathers of the church. The
epistle  was  written  because  of  internal  discord  and  division  in  the
Corinthian church. Clement intervened in the name of the church at Rome
and appealed for restoration of peace, harmony, and order. The document,

JESUS † The Complete Biography
which demonstrates Clement's familiarity with Greek Stoic philosophy and
mythology, gives a valuable picture of early church organization, belief,
and practice. Feast day: Nov. 23 (Western); Nov. 24 or 25 (Eastern).