The main focus of Baha'i activity throughout the world is
the promotion of Unity with the ultimate goal being
World Peace.
1989: Delegates and visitors to the Baha'i National Convention held in Natal in April, 1989.

1988/89: The organisers of the 1989 Convention, the National
Spiritual Assembly of South Africa, seen with top administrators of
the BahaT Faith from all parts of South Africa, (front 1 to r) Gabeba
Davids (ABM), Iraj Abedian (NSA), Judith Ramoroesi (NSA), (2nd
row) Gilbert Tombisa (ABM), Tabitha Tombisa (NSA) (3rd row)
Mike Walker (NSA), Krishna Naidoo (NSA), Jerry Jacobs (NSA)
(back row) Lowell Johnson (NSÁ), Daniel Ramoroesi (CLR), Bijan
Iqani (ABM) and Kenny Oppel (NSA).
(Abbreviation key:
ABM = Auxiliary board member;
NSA = National Assembly member; CLR = Counsellor)
Children's class: Names are written on paper "leaves"
to be placed on a tree as a lesson from Baha'i text: "Ye
are the leaves of one tree".

National Convention, 1989.
Prayers in different languages are read
at Convention..
A group of youth chat during a break at
the April Convention.
Enjoying the Natal sunshine and a cup
of tea.
Delegates during a break.
Guests from Venda and Natal get to-
gether.
Catching up on news at breaks.

THE PROMISE OF WORLD PEACE
In October 1985, the world governing body of the Baha'i Faith, the Universal House of Justice, gave a peace-promoting gift
to the world: 'The Promise of World Peace". Against a background of an international acceptance that world peace seems
impossible, the encouraging message that "Peace is not only possible but inevitable"and the feasible and practical steps
toward that goal are laid out in the document. The Baha'i World Community was given the formidable task of distributing
this document to all "The Peoples of the World" and the South African community is engaged in this continuing project.
Among others it has been presented to....
... The President of Bophuthatswana,
Lucas M. Mangope
... The Mayor of Durban.
the Mayor of Pietermaritzburg
... the Mayor of Johannesburg
... The Mayor of Uitenhage
... the Mayor of Roodepoort

Usually Baha'i delegations of about five in number are chosen to present the
Peace Message. It was a rare community decision, therefore, when all the
members of the Pretoria comrnunity presented the Peace Statement to a local
Rabbi.
Quotations from The Promise of
World Peace.
World peace is not only possible but
inevitable. It is the next stage of the
evolution of this planet - in the words
of one great thinker, "the planetization
of mankind".
Unbridled nationalism, as distinguised
from a sane and legitamate patriotism,
must give way to a wider loyalty, to the
love of humanity as a whole.
A fundemental lack of communication
between peoples seriously undermines
efforts towards world peace. Adopting
an international auxiliary language
would go far to resolving this problem.
Disunity is a danger that the nations
and peoples of the earth can no longer
endure; the consequences are too ter-
rible to contemplate, too obvious to
require any demonstration.

WORLD RELIGION DAY 1989
Guests and participants photographed at the celebration of World Religion Day in Johannesburg, January 15,1989, where
readings from the Holy Books of all the world's religions were read to a multi-denominational audience. For the first time
in South Africa, public television reported on a Baha'i event and broadcast the coverage on prime time news.
The Local Spiritual Assembly of Johannesburg were the hosts of this World
Religion Day celebration.

BAHAT WORLD CENTRE
The pictorial essay which follows traces the devel-
opment of the Baha'i Faith in South Africa through
the growth of its administration.
Each year
Baha'is elect nine people from their local commu-
nity to form an "Assembly,, which ministers to the
needs of that community. Delegates from local
communities vote annually for nine Baha'is who
form a National Spiritual Assembly which is the
national governing body of the Baháí Faith. Every
five years, members from the National Assemblies
throughout the world vote for an international Body
which directs the worldwide affairs of the Baha'i
Faith from Haifa,Israel. This international govern-
ing body is called The Universal House of Justice.
The seat of the Universal House of Justice is situated on the
slopes of Mount Carmel, Haifa, Israel.
One of the most holy places to Baha'is is
this golden domed Shrine situated on the
slopes of Mount Carmel.

EARLY DAYS
1911: The earliest records avail-
able indicate that the first Baha'i
meetings in South Africa were
held by Mrs. Agnes Cook, Prótea
Avenue, Sea Point in 1911. She
held meetings on the 19th day of
each calendar month but no fur-
ther details of her are known at
present apart from the fact that
she was South Africa's first known
Baha'i.
1912: Mr. & Mrs. William Fraetas
of Cape Town visited North
America in 1912 and learned of
the Baha'i Faith in New York
from AbduT-Baha, the son of the
Founder of the Baha'i Faith who
had travelled from the Holy Land
to meet with American Baha'is.
Mrs. Fanny Knobloch, the first
American Baha'i pioneer to visit
South Africa in 1924 described
Mr. Fraetas as a "brilliant soul"
and said the couple was "a power
for good in the Cape".
1925: First Local Spiritual Assembly in South Africa is formed in Pretoria.
1920: Fanny Knobloch (left) was
the first Baha'i pioneer to South
Africa, 1920-1929. She is seen here
with travel teacher, Martha Root,
who visited South Africa in 1924/
The Carey home in Arcadia, Pretoria, where 25 for three months.
South Africa's first Local Assembly was
formed.
1925: Agnes Carey was
the first person from
Pretoria to become a
Baha'i and served as a
member of the Local
Assembly from 1925 to
1929.

BIRTH OF THE ADMINISTRATION
Shoghi Eff endi, the great-grandson of the Founder
of the Baha'i Faith, told the South African artist,
Reginald Turvey, that the reason the early days
of Baha'i activity in South Africa had failed to
prosper was that the Baha'i World Administra-
tion had not been established at that time to
nurture growth and development. However, in 1953
a new wave of pioneers began to arrive in South
Africa from North America and began to lay the
foundations of Baha'i Administration. In 1955
Johannesburg's first Local Assembly was elected.
1955: Seven of the nine members of the first Local Assembly of Johannesburg
which was responsible for organizing South Africa's first National Convention.
(1 to r) William Sears, Reginald Turvey, Bahiyyih Ford, Helen Miller, Robert
Miller, Marguerite Sears, Dpfis Ballard.
1956: South Africa's first Baha'i
National Convention was held
at this Muldersdrift farm in
April. The place became known
as "The Farm".
1956: The Host and Hostess at "The
Farm" at that historic first convention
were American pioneers, William and
Marguerite Sears who are seen here
welcoming some of the delegates. At
that time William Sears, known as "Bill",
was a popular Springbok Radio per-
sonality.

Delegates from Southern Africa and Indian Ocean Islands who attended the first Baha'i National Convention in
Southern Africa.
1956: Members of the first National Spiritual Assembly of
the Baha'is of South and West Africa with Hands of the
Cause Paul Haney (2nd left front row) and Musa Banani
(centre front) as well as Ali Nakhjavani (2nd right front
row) who was then an Auxiliary Board Member and is now
a member of the Universal House of Justice. These three
special visitors took part in the first convention held in
1956. This Assembly was responsible for the BaháT admini-
stration of: South Africa, South West Africa, Mauritius,
St. Helena Island, Reunion, Madagascar,
Angola,
Mozambique, Swaziland, Basutoland, Bechuanaland,
Northern and Southern Rhodesia and Nyasaland.

CONSOLIDATION BEGINS
After the first Convention, the teaching work
entered a new phase following three major de-
velopments: The appointment of a National Teach-
ing Committee; the move of the Administration
from "The Farm" to a National BaháT Centre in
Johannesburg; as well as the appointment of two
Hands of the Cause in southern Africa by Shoghi
Effendi,
the great grandson of the Founder of the
BaháT Faith, who is known to BaháTs as "The
Guardian".
First National Teaching Corhmittee (1 to r): Bob
Quigley, Valera Allen, Bothaja Pokane, Dorothy
Senne, Billy Sears, Bahiyyih Ford (who was later
appointed as a Counsellor for southern Africa)
and Fred Schechter (who was later appointed a
Counsellor in the United States of America).
1955: Meeting of pioneers held in the new National Baha'i
Centre, 23 Rustenburg Road, Melville in Johannesburg.

1957: William Sears and John Robarts were appointed Hands of the Cause of God in October, 1957.
William and MargueriteN^ears
John and Audrey Robarts

NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES
The following photographs of National Assemblies span a period of 32 years - from 1956 to 1988.
1956: The first National Spiritual Assembly: (back row 1 to
r) William Sears, John Robarts, John Allen, Robert Miller,
(front row 1 to r) Andrew Mofokeng, Festus Chembeni,
William Masehla, Walter Dlamini, Max Seepe.
1967: The nine Baha'is voted onto the National Assembly:
(back 1 to r) Ephens Senne, Lowell Johnson, Isaac Abra­
hams, Bishop Brown, Sam Kubone, (front 1 to r) Bahiyyih
Ford, Ruth Kubone, Rosemary Sala, William Masehla.
i
1960: The Assembly serving 1960 to 1963 is seen here with
Hand of the Cause John Robarts seated centre front: (Back
lto r) John Allen, Max Seepe, Shidan Faťhe-Aazam, Lowell
Johnson, Andrew Mofokeng, (front 1 to r) William Masehla,
Valera Allen, Bahiyyih Ford and Rudolf o Duna.
1971: The Assembly members who served from 1971 to
1974 were: Ephens Senne, Robert Witham, Max Seepe,
Abubaker Rossier, Mike Sears, (front 1 to r) Sam Kubone,
Elise Liknaitzky, Bishop Brown, Elizabeth Witham.

1978: Voted to serve as Assembly members from 1978 to
1980 were: (1 to r) Max Seepe, Stanlake Kukama, Cornelius
Khunou, Mike Sears, Rose Gates, Mike Walker, Elise
Liknaitzky, Lowell Johnson, Robert Mazibuko.
1981: Max Seepe, Lowell Johnson, Joyce Pheko Dwashu,
Martin Konstant, Rose Gates, Robert Mazibuko, Mike Walker,
Elise Liknaitzky, Mike Sears.
1985: Martin Konstant, Judith Ramoroesi, Elise Liknaitzky,
Mike Walker, Iraj Abedian, Lowell Johnson, Robert Mazibuko,
Mike Sears, Tabitha Tombisa.
1988: Iraj Abedian, Mike Walker, Judith Ramoroesi, Mike
Sears, Krishna Naidoo, Tabitha Tombisa, Jerry Jacobs, Kenny
Oppel, Lowell Johnson.

EARLY PIONEERS
1953: Bahiyyih and Harry Ford were the first pioneers to
establish themselves permanently in Johannesburg. Harry
died within the first year of their arrival and his story is
told in vol.XIII of The Baha'i World. Bahiyyih developed
a career in African arts and crafts, becoming a sought
after lecturer as an authority fin the subject at lunches
and functions held by church groups and other organi-
zations such as Rotarians, Lions and Women's Insti-
tutes. Bahiyyih was named Margaret at birth and was
given the name Bahiyyih by 'Ábdu'1-Bahá during a visit
to Haifa, Israel, at the age of twelve with her father,
Harry Randall who was an Apostle of 'Abdu'1-Bahá.
1953: Bishop and Ruth Brown
arrived in Durban on August 8,
1953. Having the unusual first
name of "Bishop" led to many
amusing moments as he was
regularly mistaken as a mem-
ber of the clergy. Once a traffic
officer asked to see his driver's
licence and upon seeing the name
said: "Parden me, Your Grace.
Please proceed." Ruth Brown's
life story is told in The Baha'i
World, XV.
1953: Edith and Lowell Johnson
arrived from the United States
of America on November 27,
1953, and settled in Cape Town..
In pursuing a career in radio,
Lowell later moved to Johan-
nesburg where he became a well
known radio deejay. He is the
author of several Baha'i books
and has been the secretary of
the National Assembly for many
years.

1953: The Miller family arrived on December 5,1953, from
Milwaukee in the United States of America. They pio-
neered in Johannesburg and Durban. They served as host
and hostess at the National Centre when they first arrived
in South Africa.
1954: The Allen family, from the United States of America,
arrived in Swaziland on April 19, 1954. (1 to r) John, Dale,
Kenton and Valera with (front left) Margo Bosch and Maude
Fisher. John, Valera and Dale served on the National Assem-
bly (South and West Africa) for several years before Swaziland
formed its own National Assembly. Mrs. Fisher's life story is
told in The BaháT World, Vol.XIII and John Allen's in Vol.XVIII.
1954: Emeric and Rosemary Sala arrived from Canada on July 16,
1954, and pioneered in Zululand and Port Elizabeth. The couple
were instrumental in establishing the BaháT Faith in Port Elizabeth
and Rosemary established an international library at Cowan High
School in New Brighton. Rosemary Sala's life story is told in The
BaháT World, Vol.XVIII.

1954: Edythe MacArthur arriving from Canada on December
25,1954. She pioneered in Zululand and Cape Town, work-
ing as a nurse. She was a Knight of Baha'uTlah.
1955: William and Betty Randall photographed at the Cape
Town harbour upon their arrival on April 21, 1955. They
pioneered in Durban, Pretoria and Johannesburg, serving
on the first Spiritual Assembly in Durban and later as host
and hostess at the National Centre in Johannesburg.

1954: Fred Schechter, a Knight of
Baha'u iláh, arrived in South Africa from
Ethiopia on August 11,1954. He is seen
here with John and Charlotte de Pinto
who pioneered to Mozambique in Sep-
tember 1954.
1955: Youth pioneers get stuck into wash-
ing a load of dishes after a function at
the National Centre. (1 to r) Mike Sears,
Margo Bosch, Dale Allen, Kenton
Allen, Patrick Robarts and Billy Sears.
1956: Beth and Charles "Chuck" Ducker,
arrived from the United States of Amer-
ica on November 7,1956. They served
as host and hostess at the National
Centre and later moved to Swaziland.

THE FLOURISHING YEARS
The '60s saw the Baha'i Faith burgeoning in every direction, so much so that many new National
Spiritual Assemblies were born from the original Mother Assembly for southern Africa. These included:
South Central Africa (1964), Indian Ocean (1964), Zambia (1967), Swaziland, Mozambique and Lesotho
(1967), Botswana (1970), Malawi (1970), Rhodesia (Zimbabwe) (1970)... as well as others in the '70s and
80's.
Auxiliary Board- Members with Hand of the
Cause John Robarts: John Allen, Andrew
Mofokeng, Robert Quigley arfti "Sue" Benatar.
The Cápe Town Community

Children's class in Cape Town
Children's class in Phokeng, Rustenburg area.

1961: National Convention delegates.

VILLAGE TEACHING
in Mafikeng
... in Ciskei

MUSIC MAKERS
Don Fouché of Johannesburg with fellow Baha'is, Jim Seals and Dash Crofts of
"Seals and Crofts", in Los Angeles.
Jazz deejay
Lowell
Johnson with
fellow
Baha'i Dizzy Gillespie
during Dizzy's jazz
concerts in Maseru,
Lesotho.
John Agulhas is the music maker of the
Baha'i community in the Cape and no
function would be complete without
his vibrant contributions. He obtained
a diploma in music through correspon-
dence with a leading music college in
New York.

Sylvia Schulman
(Benatar) is a well-
known concert pi-
anist, now living
in Cape Town as
a pioneer from the
United Kingdom
where she spent
15 years.
Norman Bailey CBE, inter-
nationally known opera •
singer from
Salisbury,
Rhodesia, became a Baha'i
in 1956 while he was a stu-
dent at Rhodes University/
He has lived in England
since 1967 after several years
in Austria and Germany.
He received an honorary
Doctor of Music
from
Rhodes University in 1986.

RELAXING
NSA members, Judith Rdmoroesi
and Iraj Abedian during a lunch
break in Port Elizabeth.
Hand of the Cause John Robarts, having a
Relaxing and unwinding African
little fun when asked to taste the mielie
style. Taking a dancing and singing
meal.
break during a teaching institute in
the Ciskei in 1984.
Sharing information.

Baha'is of Port Elizabeth area hosted the NSA members there in 1988.
Children from Port Elizabeth area.
Two young Baha'is helped to sell
balloons at a Roodepoort Fair where
the Baha'is of that community spon-
sored a balloon race.

p
More Baháís relaxing and having fun together . . .

BAHAT WEDDINGS
Professor Bishop Brown officiates at the mar-
riage of Susan Ford and Peter Goodman,
seen here signing their Baha'i marriage cer-
tificate in Durban. Susan and Peter are well
known media professionals. Johannesburg-
born Susan's career is in journalism and
public relations while London-born Peter is
a commercial and industrial photographer.
Jerry Jacobs and Vanessa Marais
in Johannesburg at their wed-
ding reception after exchanging
their Baha'i marraige vows. Jerry
and Vanessa were both born in
Johannesburg.
Teresa Skrenes of the United States of
America marries Ludfi Noor of
Durban. They settled in Empangeni.

RUHIYYIH KHANUM IN CAPE TOWN
1972: The wife of Shoghi Effendi,
AmatuT-Bahá Rúhíyyih Khánum (centre
in white) with Baha'is from the Cape
Town community during a visit in 1972.
1972: Laying the foundation stone for
the BaháT Centre in Surrey Estate, near
Cape Town, on July 13,1972.
Rúhíyyih Khámun is seen with Amin
Gallow who donated the property. The
Baha'is in Cape Town initiated a plan in
the mid-'60s to acquire this centre and
the members of the community pledged
themselves to a contribution of 25 cents
per week for 24 weeks.
The Cape Town community using their
centre.
J

LOCAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES
Johannesburg
Umlazi
Durban
Cape Town
Roodepoort

NATIONAL CONVENTION UMGABABA
During the '70s and early '80s many Baha'i National Conventions were held at Umgababa on the Natal
South Coast. Baha'is travelledAo that venue from all provinces in South Africa as well as from neigh-
bouring States.
A singing group from the Transkei lifts the spirits of the
delegates during one of the three-day conventions held at
Umgababa during the early '70s.
Four BaháT women from different parts of the country
examine the handmade items which were part of a fund-
raising project at one of the National Conventions. Donated
by Baha'is from all areas of South Africa, the offerings
came from small rural communities as well as large cities
with everyone doing what they could afford to do.
Florence Norman (right) is a nursing sister who settled in Durban from Australia in 1924
and is thought of as the BaháT "mother of Durban". She is seen here chatting to pioneer
Pat Beer at one of the many Umgababa Conventions where delegates were cheered by her
smiling face. Florence first heard of the BaháT Faith from Martha Root in Australia in 1924
and cared for Agnes Carey during her last years.
j

Delegates and visitors at the National Convention, Umgababa, 1977.

Two dynamic speakers from Soweto, Daniel Ramoroesi (left) and William
Masehla (right) were great favourites with Convention delegates. They never
failed to motivate and inspire their listeners to greater heights. Both men were
appointed to the Continental Board of Counsellors in Africa by the Universal
House of Justice, making them direct representatives in Africa for the world
governing body of the BaháTíaith. William Masehla's life story is in The Baha'i
World, Vol. XIX.
Counsellor Shidan Fat'he Azaam
makes a point for the delegates at
National Convention.

TRANSLATORS
AFRIKAANS: The late GodfriedWinck-
ler was a Doctor of Literature and trans-
lated major Baha'i writings into Afri-
kaans. He was the founder of the For-
estry Museum in Sabie and well known
in the field of timber merchandising
and promotion in South Africa.
TSWANA: Daphne Masehla has
worked as a clerical assistant at the
Baha'i National Centre for many years,
She is a widely travelled Baha'i teacher
and translater of Baha'i writings into
Tswana.
XHOSA: Robert Mazibuko of New
Brighton, Port Elizabeth, translated the
major Baha'i scripture "The Book of
Certitude", a prayer book and other
writings into Xhosa.

ZULU: Bertha Mkhize was a prolific Zulu translater and powerful Zulu pioneer and teacher. Bertha was an "emancipated"
woman by African custom at age 20. She was one of the first African women to own her own business. She served, at various
times, as president of the African Women's Association, the African National Congress Women's League and the Durban
and District Women's League. Upon becoming a Baha'i in 1959, she totally withdrew from politics and devoted her efforts
to teaching the Baha'i Faith because she found that the Baha'i teachings embraced all the principles she believed in and had
been working for politically. The Baha'i teachings, however, she said have a non-violent and spiritual foundation which is
more powerful than political solutions. Her life story appears in The Baha'i World, Vol.XVII.

AKING HISTORY
The first Asian Indians to become
Baha'is in South Africa were Dr.
Abdul-Hak and Mrs. Joan Bismilla of
Potchefstroom.
Elise Liknaitzky was born in Johan-
nesburg and served as a member of the
National Spiritual Assembly of South
and West Africa for 20 years from 1968
to 1988. She performed valuable serv-
ice in obtaining the permits necessary
when visiting black townships in the
'60s and 70s.
Tommy Heuvel of Cape Town was the
chairman of the Local Spiritual Assem-
bly there for many years. He served as
an Auxiliary Board Member and then
pioneered with his family to Macassar
in the Western Cape.

Ruth Sears of Johannesburg served as
an Auxiliary Board Member for 10 years.
Angelica and Rudolfo Duna from
Mozambique who introduced the Baha'i
Faith to Angola. Upon returning to their
own country of Mozambique, Rudolfo
was imprisoned for some time for teach-
ing the Baha'i Faith. He served on the
National Assembly of South and West
Africa and as an Auxiliary Board
Member.
Dorothy Senne was the first African
woman in South Africa to embrace the
Baha'i Faith. A member of the Tswana
tribe, her favourite subject was "The
Covenant" and she was an inspiring
teacher on the subject.
Ruth Kubone, who made a great contri-
bution in the development of the Um-
lazi Baha'i Community, with Marvel
Gray of the U.S.A. who pioneered in
Cape Town, Windhoek and Angola.
Marvel later went to serve at the Baha'i
World Centre, in Haifa.

Gilbert Tombisa of Eersterus, Pretoria,
has served for many years as an Auxil-
iary Board Member in South Africa. He
has excelled in his profession as a
draughtsman and achieved many firsts
in this arena. He is a member of the S. A.
Institute of Technology (MSIAT) and a
Council Member of the S. A. Institute of
Draughtsmen (MSIAT).
The radiant smiles of Max and May Seepe
always beamed on those around them. Max
and May were the first people in the Coloured
community in South Africa to embrace the
BaháT Faith. Max was a school teacher and
served on the National Assembly for all but
two years of his BaháT life. The couple trav-
elled extensively in Southern Africa teaching
the BaháT Faith. Max's life story appears in The
BaháT World, Vol.XVII.
Princess Gcnapi
Dlamini,
daughter of the late King
Sobhuza of Swaziland, became
a member of the BaháT Faith in
1955 - eleven years before
Swaziland elected its own
National Assembly. She is a
medical doctor in Swaziland.

Henry and Yvonne "Bonnie" Fitzpatrick, were the first Black
American pioneers to South Africa. They settled in the Transkei
on December 23,1978. Henry was a Professor of Education and
Vice Dean of the Faculty of Education at the University of
Transkei and later Professor of Education at the University of
Venda. He died there in 1987. Bonnie now works in South
Africa and has made a career^or herself in marketing and sales
training.
Rushdi Davids, businessman and Aux-
iliary Board Member from Cape Town.
Upon Rushdi's passing, his wife Ga-
beba was appointed to replace him. His
life story appears in The BaháT World,
Vol. XIX.

Beatrice Nkosi is an energetic and en-
thusiastic travel teacher throughout Kwa
Zulu and is an Assistant to the Auxi-
liary Board. She was part of the Delega-
tion sent by the National Assembly of
South Africa to consult with the Prime
Minister of Kwa Zulu.
Martin and Gerda Aiffe settled in South
West Africa from Germany and con-
tributed greatly to the growth of the
Baha'i Community there through dedi-
cated and consistant teaching efforts.

The members of 12 National Assemblies met in June 1989 at an historic conference called by the counsellors to achieve a
united vision in southern Africa.

The Botshabelo Entry by Troops project.
The tent and chairs are transported
from Johannesburg to Botshabelo.
Erecting a huge tent is a tricky business
and requires teamwork.
Many thousands of copies of The Prom-
ise of World Peace have been distrib-
uted to Botshabelo's 800 000 inhabi-
tants.
Many willing hands are there to help
unloading.
The first historic meeting draws a full
house.
Baha'is who travelled to Botshabelo to
help launch the project there.

MOTHER OF SOUTH AFRICA
......,..,..,.MšíM^^^SíěŠM&....
"SISTER AGNES" 1879-1958
Agnes Carey was named by Shoghi
Effendi, as the spiritual ''Mother of the
Baha'is of South Africa".
Agnes was
the only surviving Baha'i in South Af­
rica from the early days when the pio­
neers of the '50s arrived in Durban. She
was a great help to the Browns and to
Florence Norman in their early efforts
to establish a community in Durban.
Although she was bed-ridden or in a
rocking chair at the time, her enthusi­
asm and indomitable spirit shone
through in spite of her poor health.
Before moving to Durban, she was a
nursing sister in Pretoria and a mem­
ber of the Pretoria Prisons Board for
rehabilitating women prisoners. Her
life story appears in The Baha'i World,
Vol.XIII.

FATHER OF SOUTH AFRICA
"UNCLE REG" 1882-1968
Artist Reginald Turvey is known as the
spiritual "Father of the Baha'is of South
Africa". He received this appellation
from Shoghi Effendi, while he was on
pilgrimage in Haifa in 1956. He be-
came a Baha'i after meeting American
artist Mark Toby at Dartington Hall.
British potter Bernard Leach and Regi-
nald Turvey were both introduced to
the Baha'i faith by Mark Toby. Toby
returned to South Africa in 1940. His
life story appears in Baha'i World,
Vol.XIV as well as in the book called
"Reginald Turvey - Life and Art" (George
Ronald, Oxford.

FUTURE HISTORY PLANNED
This story is incomplete. The next step is to compile a complete
history of the entire area of southern Africa and the Islands of the
Indian Ocean which were originally part of the region administered
by this National Spiritual Assembly. As the Mother Assembly of
Southern Africa, the National Spiritual Assembly of South Africa
would welcome stories, facts, and photographs which will illustrate
those early years of growth in this region. In the meantime, the
BaháT Community continues to expand and consolidate, and work
towards the eventual establishment of Unity in this beautiful
country.

MESSAGE OF UNITY & PEACE
To: The Peoples of South Africa,
May the sweet scented breezes of Unity
perfume the air as we all work towards
resolving differences and eliminating preju-
dice of all kinds.
Whether those prejudices be national, reli-
gious, sexual or racial, they are all barriers to
Peace.
The National Spiritual Assembly of
the Bahi as of South Africa
November 1989