Lights of ‘Irfán

Papers Presented at the
‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars








Book Seven

Papers published in Lights of ‘Irfán represent the views of
their authors.
Reproductions from this compilation are permitted
provided that the sources and authors are clearly indicated,
with the exception of provisional translations, which are
not to be further distributed.



‘Irfán Colloquia
Bahá’í National Center
1233 Central Street
Evanston, IL 60201
USA
Phone: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3527
E-mail: contact@irfancolloquia.org
www.irfancolloquia.org


Lights of ‘Irfán
Papers Presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and Seminars
Book Seven
General Editor Iraj Ayman
Sponsored by the Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
163 B.E. 2006 C.E.




Copyright © 2006, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund


Artwork by Trey Yancy
Typeset by Jonah Winters, winterswebworks.com

Incline your hearts, O people of God, unto the
counsels of your true, your incomparable Friend. The
Word of God may be likened unto a sapling, whose
roots have been implanted in the hearts of men. It is
incumbent upon you to foster its growth through the
living waters of wisdom, of sanctified and holy words,
so that its root may become firmly fixed and its
branches may spread out as high as the heavens and
beyond.
— Law˙-i-Dunyá
Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 93-94

mt

Table of Contents
Preface ................................................................................................vi
Andalusí Theosophy: A Recontextualization
J. Vahid Brown ................................................................................1
Out of Jewish Roots: Studies of Prayer Patterns in Jewish, Christian,
Muslim and Bahá’í Worship
Ted Brownstein ..............................................................................29
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
in Spain (1854-1876)
Amín E. Egea .................................................................................67
The St. Petersburg 19th Century Orientalist Collection of Materials on
the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths: Primary and Other Sources
Y.A. Ioannesyan .............................................................................75
Origins of the Bahá’í Concept of Unity and Causality: A Brief Survey of
Greek, Neoplatonic, and Islamic Underpinnings
B.R. Khadem ............................................................................... 101
Law˙-i-Hikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom: Towards a Progressive
Bahá’í Theology
Wolfgang A. Klebel ..................................................................... 119
Further Explorations in Bahá’í Ontology
Ian Kluge ..................................................................................... 163
“The newly born babe of that Day”: Mysticism in the Age of the
Maturity of Humankind
Julio Savi ..................................................................................... 201
Religion and Exclusivism: a Bahá’í Perspective
Julio Savi ..................................................................................... 221
Seeds of Revelation and the Mystic Bond between The Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh: An Exposition on Excerpts from the Persian Bayán
James B. Thomas .......................................................................... 239
The Bahá’í Faith in the Arabic Speaking Middle East: Part 1 (1753-1863)
Ramsey Zeine ............................................................................... 261
Appendices
Appendix I: Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and Their abbreviations
used in this book .......................................................................... 285
Appendix II: Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books One-Six ................. 287
Appendix III: Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia ............................. 293

m
t

Preface

Bahá’u’lláh refers to His Revelation as an ocean with innumerable
fine and luminous pearls hidden in its depths. Then He adds that
whoever desires them must exert to reach the shore of that ocean,
immerse in that ocean, and depending on the degree of his efforts,
acquire his predestined share of those pearls.1 In this exhortation there
are several points that deserve our special attention:
1. Pearls of divine knowledge are hidden in the revealed words of
God
2. Those desiring to acquire them must exert every effort to
reach the depths of the revealed words
3. Everyone has a predestined share of those pearls
4. What may be acquired from the destined share depends on the
degree of exerted effort.
Following this guidance He calls for applying knowledge and skills
needed for deep and systematic study. The ‘Irfán Colloquia and its
publications are attempts at promoting and facilitating the efforts
recommended by Bahá’u’lláh, hoping to present some of those "fine
and luminous pearls" to those who desire them.
This volume of the Lights of `Irfán contains some of the papers
presented at various sessions of the Irfan Colloquium in 2005 that
were conducted in the English language, as well as some articles that
were received during that same year. ‘Irfán Colloquia in 2005 were
convened in seven separate sessions: in North America at Bosch Bahá’í
School in Northern California and at Louhelen Bahá’í School in
Michigan; and in Europe at the Center for Bahá’í Studies in Acuto,
Italy, and the Conference Center in Tambach, Germany. The sessions
were conducted in English, Persian, and German. At those sessions 87
scholars from different countries made a total of 96 presentations,
and participated in dialogue and exchange of information with the
participants. See a listing of all at http://irfancolloquia.org.
In this volume, the presentation on “Bahá'í Ontology” that was
published in Book Six is continued and expanded. Also “Chronicles of
a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá'í Religions in Spain
(1850-1853)” published in Book Five is continued, covering the
period 1854-1676. “The St. Petersburg 19th Century Orientalist
Collection of Materials on the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths” provides
valuable information on a number of unpublished Writings of the
Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. “The Bahá'í Faith in the Arabic Speaking

Preface

ii


Middle East” presents the beginning of a new line of studies that
reveal the background, extent and various aspects of the presence of
the Bahá'í Faith in that region. Some comparative studies are
presented on “Andalusi Theosophy”, “Prayer Patterns in Jewish,
Christian, Muslim and Bahá'í Worship”, “Origins of the Bahá'í
Concept of Unity and Causality” and “Religion and Exclusivism.”
Various mystical connotations of some items in the Bahá'í scripture
are explored in “The Newly Born Babe of that Day” and “Seeds of
Revelation and Mystic Bond between the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh.” Some
theological studies are presented in the article on “Bahá’u’lláh's Tablet
of Wisdom.”
Starting from Book Six we have adopted two changes in the ‘Irfán
Colloquia's style guide. All "authoritative" publications are cited by an
abbreviation; see Appendix I, “Bibliography of the Bahá'í Writings
and Their Abbreviations Used in This Book,” on page 285. Words of
Prophets/Manifestations, i.e. quotations from Sacred Writings (not
including statements by Shoghi Effendi or the Universal House of
Justice, or informal provisional translations), are italicized.
All papers in this volume present the views and understandings of
their authors. The texts of the papers are published as provided by the
authors, without further editing. The writing styles and scholarly
approaches are therefore different. Articles are published in this
volume according to the alphabetical order of the author’s last names.
Abstracts of all the presentations made at the ‘Irfán Colloquia and
Seminars are published in a series of separate booklets.


Iraj Ayman

Wilmette, May 2006

NOTES
1 Kitáb-i-Aqdas #181 and Majmu`i-yi Alwáh-i Mubáraki-yi Hadrat-i-
Bahá'u’lláh (“Collection of Bahá’u’lláh's Tablets”) p. 324

Andalusí Theosophy
A Recontextualization
J. Vahid Brown
Medieval Spain witnessed the birth and fundamental development
of Islamic and Jewish theosophical movements that were largely to
become the defining modes of mysticism for these faiths throughout
their domains and down to modern times: the Kabbalah in Judaism,
and Akbarian or wujúdí Íúfism in Islam.1 Why both of these
movements emerged into the light of history at virtually the same
moment and in the same region is a question that has been almost
entirely neglected by modern scholarship.2 What I will attempt to
accomplish in this paper is a rapprochement of three lines of research
that are relevant to this question but that have hitherto been carried
out in isolation from one another. These are, first, the historiographic
discussion regarding the “symbiosis” and “interconfessionalism”
prevailing in pre-Expulsion Andalusí philosophy; second, the vexed
question of the emergence and early history of the Kabbalah; and
third, the obscure intellectual origins of the Íúfí mystic Ibn al-‘Arabí
and his “school.”3 In the scholarship on the latter two issues, almost
no attempt has been made to situate these developments in relation to
each other, nor have scholars given due attention to the role of
Andalusí interconfessionalism in creating the necessary fertile ground
for the explosion of these revolutionary theosophies. It will not be my
intention to establish lines of “influence” from Íúfism to Kabbalah or
vice versa. Rather, my purpose will be to suggest a recontextualization
of these emergent Jewish and Islamic theosophies or esotericisms,
such that the interconfessional revolution in religious philosophy in
tenth- to thirteenth-century al-Andalus can be seen as the most critical
source for the development of these two movements, an
interconfessionalism that would continue to mark their later
trajectories through history.
Symbiosis: Judeo-Islamic Philosophy in the
“Golden Age”
Throughout the history of Islamicate4 civilization, philosophy has
been a pursuit carried out in interconfessional contexts. The first
flowering in Islamdom of philosophy proper — falsafah — was owing
to the joint efforts of Syriac Christians and Arab and Persian Muslims
working in Baghdád under the aegis of the first ‘Abbásid caliphs


Andalusí Theosophy


during the eight and ninth centuries.5 Their translations of the
intellectual legacies of ancient Greece, India and Persia into Arabic
spurred the ‘Abbásid-era renaissance of science and philosophy,6 and
these legacies presented similar challenges to the Abrahamic religious
traditions. The initial Islamicate encounter with the Hellenistic
heritage developed in two distinct directions, that of the falásafah,
often dubbed the “humanists,”7 and that of the dialectical
theologians, the mutakallimún. In both cases the contexts of
development were inherently interconfessional. Oliver Leaman
described the former as having taken place in “an atmosphere [that]
consisted of the thought of Muslims, Christians, Jews and pagans,
and, perhaps more significantly, of those within a religious group
regardless of doctrinal differences.”8 Beginning in the eighth century,
and in a more reactive tone to the philosophical tenets that challenged
such shared dogmas as the temporal, ex nihilo creation of the universe
and the resurrection of bodies, Jewish and Muslim mutakallimún set
down, often in shared social and cultural contexts, their elaborate
philosophical theologies of these Abrahamic faiths.9
Later, in al-Andalus — Islamicate Spain — the development of
philosophy
continued
to
be
marked
by
Jewish-Muslim
interconfessionalism. In a certain sense, the cultural efflorescence of
medieval al-Andalus was a mirror image of ‘Abbásid Baghdád, an
image that was consciously manipulated as much by the founders of
the independent Andalusí Umayyad caliphate as by the Jewish
leadership associated with that court. The process by which the
Andalusí Umayyads created a foundation myth that drew upon
‘Abbásid symbolism while simultaneously affirming their legitimate
independence from Baghdád has been documented at length by
Janina Safran.10 Equally important for our purposes is the fact that
the Andalusí Jewish community, under the leadership of Óasdai ibn
Shapru† (d. 975), physician and advisor to the court of the first
independent Andalusí Umayyad caliph, ‘Abd al-Ra˙mán al-Náßir (r.
961-976), had simultaneously broken with the yeshivot of Baghdad
and set the Jews of al-Andalus on an independent course that would
lead them to rival the Babylonian centers in the spiritual and
intellectual leadership of world Jewry.11 The fact that both Muslims
and Jews of al-Andalus understood the parallelism of these
developments is evidenced by the literature emanating from both
sides of the confessional divide, in which the link is made explicit.12
The ensuing centuries of Andalusí civilization have often been
hailed as a “Golden Age” of Jewish-Muslim symbiosis, with Jews
attaining unprecedented heights in the state apparatus, and witnessing
a general flowering of poetry, literature, and philosophy that
transcended religious boundaries.13 As there are numerous detailed
studies of this period, I will here only briefly identify the most

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

important personalities associated with the “Golden Age” of Andalusí
philosophy, emphasizing the interconfessional aspects of these
thinkers’ lives and works. First, though, a few words must be said
regarding the categorization of this literary output as “philosophy.”
The distinctions made between philosophy and religion, science
and magic, or rationalism and mysticism, often confuse more than
they reveal about the medieval literatures to which they are applied.14
This anachronistic division is at the heart of the problem of the
inadequate contextualizations of Spanish Kabbalah and Andalusí
Íúfism, and I will have more to say about this below. It would be well
to emphasize from the start that for every one of the individuals
mentioned below, the pursuit of philosophy was an explicitly religious
affair, having as much to do with the character and knowability of
God and prophecy as with the nature and properties of “natural”
phenomena. The very few Islamicate philosophers for whom religious
concerns were indifferent to the pursuit of truth — such as Abú Bakr
al-Rází (d. 925) or Ibn al-Ráwandí (d. 910) — are the exceptions that
prove the rule. The distinction made between Neoplatonism and
Aristotelianism, with the former considered more congenial to
religious applications than the latter, is likewise an inadequate one,
not least because one of the single most Neoplatonic texts known to
medieval Islamdom was thought until modern times to have been a
work of Aristotle.15 The strictest Aristotelian known to al-Andalus
was Ibn Rushd, who was however famous throughout the Islamicate
world not as a philosopher, but as a scholar of Islamic law.16 His alter-
identity in the Latin West as Averroes, the enemy of religion, was
predicated upon a rather selective process of translation and
mistranslation such that “the Averroes whom the West first
encountered was not the full man, and . . . the writings the thirteenth
century did not translate could have significantly altered the
perception of him as an irreligious naturalist, and the perception of
Aristotelianism as an implacable foe of organized religion.”17
With this caveat in mind, let us briefly survey the interconfessional
development of philosophy in al-Andalus. Mention should first of all
be made of Isaac Israeli (d. c. 955), the first great Jewish Neoplatonist
who, though not an Andalusí, was to play a significant role in the
interconfessional career of philosophy in al-Andalus.18 Famous to
medieval Muslims, Jews, and Christians primarily for his medical
treatises, his philosophical works left a prominent mark on many
Jewish thinkers of al-Andalus, especially Solomon ibn Gabirol (d.
1054 or 1058), Moses ibn Ezra (c. 1060-1139), Joseph ibn Íaddíq (d.
1149), Abraham ibn Óasdai (fl. 13th cent.), and Shem Tov ibn
Falaquera (d. c. 1295). He may also have been a principle source for
Andalusí knowledge of the so-called long version of the Theology of
Aristotle, a critical source both for Isma’ílí thought and for Jewish


Andalusí Theosophy


Neoplatonic theology in the Middle Ages, which likely emerged from
a Judeo-Isma’ílí context.19 The Theology was also to play an important
role in both Kabbalah and Andalusí wujúdí Íúfism, being cited by the
Gerona Kabbalists,20 Moses de Leon (the author of the Zohar),21 and
Ibn al-‘Arabí.22 In addition to the Jewish philosophers noted above,
Israeli is also quoted by the 11th century Andalusí Muslim author of
the Gháyat al-˙akím23 (the Picatrix of the Latin alchemical tradition),
attributed to Maslamah ibn A˙mad al-Majri†í (d. 1007), and appears
to have been a source for the Muslim philosopher Ba†alyúsí (d. c.
1127),24 about whom more will be said below.
The next major figure of Andalusí philosophy is Ibn Masarra of
Cordoba (b. 883), often considered in both Muslim and Western
sources to have been the first Íúfí of al-Andalus. Few of his works
have survived, though his views can be extrapolated from quotations
and summaries in later Muslim works, chiefly those of Ibn al-‘Arabí.25
From these sources we learn that Ibn Masarra taught that the Throne
of God governs or rules the cosmos; that human beings can attain the
gift of prophecy; and that given the homology between the universe
and the supernal, divine Book, the key to metaphysical understanding
is the esoteric interpretation of the letters of the alphabet. All three
of these theses were to be discussed by Ibn al-‘Arabí, and he expressly
adopted the last of them.26 The emphasis on the Throne of God
immediately puts one in mind of the “throne mysticism” of Judaism,
whereas the latter two principles were both fundamental to the
Kabbalah of Abraham Abulafia, on whom see below. Whatever Ibn
Masarra’s relationship with pseudo-Empedocles, the Hermetic
doctrines associated with the latter were to find many an enthusiast in
later Andalusí centuries.27
Solomon Ibn Gabirol (1021-1054 or 1058), generally regarded as
the first Jewish philosopher in Spain,28 carries on the tradition of
Israeli and Ibn Masarra in Neoplatonism and in a cosmology with
strikingly pseudo-Empedoclean features.29 His writings were to be
extremely influential to later Kabbalists, especially his doctrine of the
Divine Will as something of a demiurge, intermediate between the
unknowable Godhead and the creation.30 Ibn Gabirol’s doctrine that
even spiritual entities are composed of matter and form appears to
presage later Íúfí theosophical developments, particularly Ibn al-
‘Arabí. His most famous work, known in Latin translation as the Fons
Vitae, a dialogue in which the characters are given almost full-blown
literary personalities, marks the beginning of a trend toward
narrativization in philosophical writing which would come to
predominate in Andalusí literature.
With Ibn Óazm (d. 1064), we stray somewhat from the course of
Andalusí philosophy. The importance of Ibn Óazm for our purposes

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

lies in what his writings reveal about the character of Jewish-Muslim
relations in his time. He was not particularly well-disposed towards his
Jewish compatriots, but nonetheless displays a wide knowledge of
contemporary Jewish literature in his polemical works. Ibn Óazm
knows not only the Bible, but also parts of the Talmud, the Shi’ur
Qomah literature, and even perhaps the writings of the Karajites.31
His polemics against Samuel Ibn Nagrela (d. 1056), the Jewish
commander of the Zirid army of Cordoba and a much-celebrated
literary virtuoso of the court, should probably be read as springing less
from a pious distaste at seeing the exaltation of a non-believer as
from a certain bitterness at their respective fortunes (Ibn Óazm wrote
from exile, having fled first Cordoba and then Seville in the wake of
an auto-de-fé of his works there).32 In any case, Ibn Óazm, by drawing
upon it while reacting to it, reveals the remarkable extent of the
Jewish-Muslim “symbiosis” prevailing in his time.33
If Ibn Óazm turned to Jewish texts for polemical purposes, Ba˙ya
ibn Paqúda (fl. second half of 11th cent.) found in Islamic literature an
inspiration for Jewish pietism. It would probably not be overstating
the case to term Ibn Paqúda the first Jewish Íúfí.34 In his Fará’i∂ al-
qulúb (“Duties of the Hearts”) Ibn Paqúda quotes various Íúfís as well
as Islamic ˙adíth literature, often camouflaging the material by
putting the sayings of Mu˙ammad in the mouths of anonymous
“sages” and replacing Qur’anic quotations with appropriate Biblical
parallels. Like many of the Judeo-Islamic philosophers and
theosophers of al-Andalus, Ibn Paqúda drew inspiration from and
quoted the writings of the Ikhwán al-Íafá, a mysterious group of
10th-century authors, most likely writing in Basra and bearing a close
relationship with the Isma’ílís, whose Rasá’il (“Epistles”) won for
Neoplatonism a far-reaching impact in subsequent Islamic thought.35
Regarding the Hebrew translation of Ibn Paqúda’s Fará’i∂ al-qulúb,
Fenton writes that it “was to have an abiding influence on Jewish
spirituality right down to present times, infusing generations of
Jewish readers with Sufi notions. After having strongly influenced the
Spanish and thereafter the Palestinian Kabbalists, who were
particularly interested in Ba˙ya’s reflections on solitary meditation,
the Duties of the Heart was avidly read in the eighteenth century by
Polish ˙asidim.”36
Ibn Síd al-Ba†alyúsí (d. 1127) is one of the more obscure figures of
the period, perhaps because this Islamic philosopher did not find
much of an audience among Muslims for his philosophical works,
being chiefly known to them as a grammarian.37 His Kitáb al-Hadá’iq
was almost exclusively read in Andalusí Jewish circles, with the
notable exception of the school of Ibn al-‘Arabí; the latter refers to
him approvingly and attributes to him two common tropes in Íúfí and
Kabbalistic literature: that of the divine unicity as distinct from


Andalusí Theosophy


mathematical unity, and underlying all numbers; and that of the point
(= the divine Will or unicity) as the primordial source of line, plane,
and volume.38
The remaining luminaries of Andalusí Judeo-Islamic philosophy are
too well-known to require any introduction. The interconfessional
contexts in which these thinkers lived and wrote has been remarked
upon by many scholars. In the circle of the Jewish poet-philosophers
centering on Judah Halevi (d. 1140),39 Abraham ibn Ezra (d. c. 1164),
and Joseph ibn Íaddíq (1149), we find a tradition in full swing of
conscious and often positive use of Islamic sources, association with
Andalusí courts, and participation in a social class of — most
commonly — physicians, contexts that brought Jewish and Muslim
philosophers into contact with one another. Their Islamic counterparts
— Ibn Bájjah (d. 1138), Ibn ˇufayl (d. 1185), and Ibn Rushd (d. 1198)
— while showing few explicit indications of influence by Jewish
sources, were nonetheless integrated into the same socio-political
networks, and were clearly aware of their Jewish colleagues.40 The
popularity of these Islamic philosophers among Jewish readers was
often far greater than among Muslims, and in some cases it is due to
the efforts of Jews in the preservation and translation of their works
that we know them today.41
Moses Maimonides (d. 1204) stands unparalleled among this
group, exerting an influence which, in its capacity for leaping over
confessional and philosophical boundaries, has no peer among any
thinker of the Western Islamicate world. His profound knowledge of
the whole course of Islamic philosophy made him a peer of such
minds as Ibn Rushd, whom he further parallels in achieving lasting
fame and influence as a scholar of the sacred law. As we will see
below, he was studied in the theosophical movements of both
religions, a fact which is perhaps the most striking evidence of his
importance in the interconfessional atmosphere of al-Andalus.
Maimonides and Ibn al-‘Arabí both resided in Cairo at the same time,
in 1203.42 That they may have met is by no means farfetched, as both
had access to the same philosophical and courtly circles there. Both,
likewise, maintained and continuously asserted their identities as
Andalusís while living the latter halves of their lives in other parts of
the Islamicate world.43
Jewish Theosophy: Kabbalah and the Andalusí Context
Steven Wasserstrom has already noted that, given that the field of
Jewish-Islamic studies is still in its infancy, no “unproblematic story”
can be told of the history that we are here concerned with.44 It will
thus not be my intention to present an alternative history of the
emergence of Kabbalah, integrating it into the interconfessional

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

history of Andalusí thought. Rather I hope simply to point out that
the need for such a recontextualization is suggested by the evidence,
of which I will discuss here only four areas: the Gerona school of
Kabbalists, Isaac ibn La†if, Abraham Abulafia, and the so-called
“Jewish Íúfís” that emerged under the leadership of the Maimonidean
dynasty in Egypt. First, though, some remarks on the prevailing trends
in the historiography of the Kabbalah must be made.
No scholar did more to establish Kabbalah studies as an academic
discipline in its own right than Gershom Scholem (d. 1982), the
undisputed master of the field. No twentieth century historian of
Jewish spirituality has been able to dispense with his insights, and the
historiography of Kabbalah has largely followed the lines of research
that he initiated. When it comes to the origins of Kabbalah, however,
Scholem showed little interest in considering the context of Spain and
the currents of Andalusí philosophy, much less of the latter’s
interconfessional character, and posited instead a re-emergence of
“subterranean” gnosticism latent in Jewish thought as the key to
understanding the emergence of Kabbalah.45 He took this stance in
reaction to the approaches of 19th-century Wissenschaft des
Judentums scholars, who tended to denigrate Kabbalah as an anti-
rational reaction to the glories of Spanish-Jewish philosophy.
Scholem’s much more sympathetic view of Kabbalah’s place in the
history of Judaism led him to divorce the early history of Kabbalah
from its relation to this immediate, philosophical context.46 Scholem’s
“counter-history,”47 while it has been questioned and criticized with
reference to a number of particular issues, has not been superceded by
alternative narratives sensitive to the historical context that I am
suggesting here.48 When Scholem did offer suggestions for immediate
historical antecedents, they were generally not from the direction of
al-Andalus, and subsequent research has often shown up their
weakness.49 Eliot Wolfson has noted that, “[d]espite the fact that
Scholem was keenly aware of the textual, philological, and historical
influence of philosophical authors on Jewish mystics in the Middle
Ages, he dichotomized the intellectual currents of mysticism and
philosophy in too simplistic a fashion.”50
The Gerona school of Kabbalists, whose works constitute the most
important body of pre-Zohar Kabbalistic literature, shows just how
inadequate this dichotomy is. This circle of Kabbalists was active in
Spain roughly between the years 1210 and 1260, and includes among
its members the well-known Biblical exegete Na˙manides (d. 1270)
and his contemporaries Ezra ben Solomon, ‘Azriel, and Jacob ben
Sheshet.51 Though living in Christian Spain, the continuity of their
thought with Andalusí Judeo-Islamic philosophy is proven by the
sources which provided much of their inspiration: Ibn Gabirol, the
direct source for Azriel’s doctrine of the primal Will; Judah Halevi52,


Andalusí Theosophy


Abraham ibn Ezra,53 and Maimonides.54 As Idel has shown, Jacob ben
Sheshet knew and employed the cosmological scheme of the long
version of the Theology of Aristotle,55 and explicitly utilized
Maimonides’ Guide as a source for Platonic material, albeit material
which Maimonides had only quoted in order to refute.56 A particularly
interesting document originating from this circle is the Sefer ha-
Temunah, which crystallizes certain speculations about cosmic cycles
earlier elaborated by Abraham bar Óiyya, writing in Aragon around
1125. Contrary to Scholem’s suggestion of Joachimite influence,
Wilensky has shown the remarkable consistency between the Sefer ha-
Temunah and Isma’ílí schema of cosmic cycles. Setting forth the
theory as the “teachings of certain philosophers,” bar Óiyya wrote:
After all the creatures have passed from potentiality to
actuality, God once again returns them to potentiality as in
the beginning and then brings them back to actuality a
second and third time, and thus without end . . . Others say
that the days of the world are 40,000 years and that each of
the seven planets reigns 7,000 years in the world. When at
the end of 49,000 years they have completed their reign,
God destroys His world, leaves it for 1,000 years in a state of
tohu, and at the end of the fiftieth millennium He renews it
as in the beginning.57
What is truly remarkable about this theory is that it appears again,
almost contemporaneously with the Sefer ha-Temunah, in a work by
‘Azíz Nasafí, an Iranian Muslim follower of the Murcian school of
Íúfism to be considered below.58 In Nasafí’s words, written in the
latter half of the 13th century:
Know thou that the Transmigrationists say that there is a
cycle every thousand years and at the end of a cycle there is a
resurrection, a lesser resurrection. And there is a cycle every
seven thousand years, and at the end of each seven thousand
years there is another resurrection, a greater resurrection.
And there is a cycle every forty-nine thousand years, and at
the end of each forty-nine thousand years there is another
resurrection, a supreme resurrection. Since you have
understood this introduction now know that one of the
seven thousand years is the cycle of Saturn . . . Another seven
thousand years is the cycle of Jupiter . . . [And so on with the
seven planets.] With the supreme resurrection [after 49,000
years] the earth is completely flooded, and water covers the
entire land.59
This is an exact parallel, in every particular, of the doctrine set
forth by the Gerona Kabbalists. In addition, the Sefer ha-Temunah is
the first Kabbalistic text to use the term gilgul for transmigration of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

the soul,60 and it is to the Transmigrationists (ahl al-tanasukh) that
Nasafí attributes the belief. This is certainly one of the most
compelling pieces of evidence arguing for an interconfessional
recontextualization of these literatures.61
Another important Spanish Kabbalist demonstrating continuity
with the Andalusí interconfessional context is Isaac Ibn La†if, to
whom Sara Wilensky has devoted a number of important studies. As
she has shown, Ibn La†if declared himself to be a disciple of
Maimonides,62 and draws at length upon the Andalusí Neoplatonists
discussed above, particularly Solomon Ibn Gabirol.63 He even went
“behind” Maimonides, so to speak, directly citing al-Fárábí in
elaborating his theory of prophecy rather than simply utilizing
Maimonides, who likewise was indebted to al-Fárábí on this issue.64
He then parted company with both al-Fárábí and Maimonides on the
issue of psychology, drawing instead upon Ba†alyúsí in enumerating
the five-fold division of vegetative, animal, rational, philosophical
and prophetic souls.65 He continues the doctrine of the cosmic cycles
held by the Gerona school, and Wilensky has posited direct
dependence on Isma’ílí sources in this regard.66 She has also
demonstrated such dependence in Ibn La†if’s negative theology,
wherein the Divine Will is a demiurgic “first created being” (al-
mubda` al-awwal), from which the cosmos is emanated.67 I quote at
length one passage from Wilensky’s article on this doctrine, as it
admirably illustrates how intertwined the earliest Kabbalah was with
the Andalusí interconfessional context:
His [Ibn La†if’s] reply to the question: how can a link exist
between infinite God and finite and material man (a question
posed by Judah Hallevi through the Khazar), is that there is
no relationship between the transcendent, infinite God and
finite man, and that the infinite God cannot be grasped by
human thought. He quotes Plotinus, as formulated by Ibn
Gabirol in Fons Vitae, and adds: “I say that the limit of
cognition is when the intellectually cognized subject is able
to encompass the object of cognition; and He who is infinite
cannot be encompassed by the finite intellect.” He maintains
that the source of prophecy is not the transcendent, infinite,
hidden God, but the First Created Being. The paradox can be
solved by positing a link between the First Created Being and
the prophetic soul (the intuitive soul). The latter term was
adopted from the Kitáb al-Hada’ik [sic] of the Andalusian
philosopher al-Batalyawsi68 (1052-1127), who in turn
borrowed it from the Epistles of the Sincere Brethren
(Ikhwan al-Safa), Neoplatonic texts closely connected to the
Isma’ilia.69


Andalusí Theosophy


With regard to Abraham Abulafia (d. c. 1291), another Spanish
Kabbalist of the thirteenth century, we have a number of studies by
the eminent historian of Kabbalah, Moshe Idel, who has shown
Abulafia’s intimate continuity with Andalusí philosophy and provided
evidence of the influence of Íúfism on various elements of Abulafia’s
thought.70 Considered the progenitor of an ecstatic or prophetic
version of Kabbalah — as distinct from the theosophical mode which
centered on the theory of the sefirot and the mystical meanings of the
commandments71 — Abulafia, like many of the earliest Spanish
Kabbalists, studied Andalusí philosophy prior to becoming a
Kabbalist.72 He was one of the first people to write a commentary on
Maimonides’ Guide, and no one since him wrote as many
commentaries of this work.73 And once again, Ba†alyúsí’s Kitáb al-
Hadá’iq appears as an important source.74 Idel summarizes the
importance of the Andalusí interconfessional philosophical tradition
thus:
In other words, Abulafia read Maimonides in Avicennian and
Averroistic keys, decoded his own spiritual adventures
according to Maimonides’ teaching in the Guide, and added
philosophical conceptions out of Arabic philosophy.75
Perhaps more important for our purposes than Abulafia’s
continuity with Andalusí Judeo-Islamic philosophy is the fact that he
represents the beginning of a trend toward direct engagement of
Íúfism in Kabbalah, rather than the mediated influence via earlier
authors like Ibn Paqúda or Ghazálí-in-translation such as can be
identified in many theosophical Kabbalistic works. There are traces of
Íúfism throughout Abulafia, both in matters of doctrine and in terms
of the innovation of ecstatic techniques modeled after Íúfí
practices.76 In his circle of followers, many of whom dwelt in
Palestine, this becomes a much more marked tendency, extending to
the adoption of cosmological schemas and even terminology from
Íúfism, and, most notably, from the school of Ibn al-‘Arabí.77 To give
but one example of the many adduced by Idel, we find in a
Kabbalistic compilation made by Rabbi Isaac of Acre78, one of the
foremost Kabbalists of the fourteenth century and a leading figure of
the Abulafian tradition, the following five-world hierarchy: the
World of Divinity, the World of the Intellect, the World of the
Souls, the Imaginal World, and the World of the Senses.79 While this
schema baffled Scholem, who saw it as an odd departure from the
dominant Kabbalistic cosmologies based on Neoplatonic schema, it
exactly corresponds with the Íúfí five-world hierarchy that first
appears in the writings of Ibn al-‘Arabí’s disciples.80 The specific
attributes of the Imaginal World are exactly the same in both cases, as
Idel has shown in a point-by-point analysis, showing that this Íúfí-

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Kabbalistic parallel “is not only one of terminology, but also of
conceptual content.”81
The trend of explicit adoption of Íúfí material as represented by
the Abulafian Kabbalistic tradition finds its most radical expression in
the so-called “Jewish Íúfís,” who have been the subject of several
ground-breaking studies by Paul Fenton. Utilizing material from the
Cairo Geniza, he has greatly enriched our picture of this remarkable
Jewish pietist movement in 13th century Egypt, led by the descendents
of Maimonides, which explicitly drew its inspiration from Islamic
mysticism and attempted an Islamicization of Jewish worship. The
beginnings of this movement lie at least during the tenure of Moses
Maimonides as ra’ís al-yahúd (president of the Jewish community) in
Cairo during the last decades of the twelfth century. The first
historical personality definitely associated with this movement was a
younger contemporary of Moses Maimonides, Rabbi Abraham ha-
˙asíd (d. 1223)82, of whose extant works Fenton writes that, while
“they are thoroughly permeated with the Sufi terminology and tenets
which typify the [Jewish Íúfí] Pietist writings, they voice an original
and specifically Jewish doctrine whose underlying inspiration was
Yehúdáh ha-Levi’s Kuzarí and Moses Maimonides Guide for the
Perplexed, tempered by Sufi ideology.”83 One of Rabbi Abraham’s
disciples was Moses Maimonides’ son, Abraham Maimonides (d.
1237), whose Kifáyat al-‘Abidín is one of the classics of Jewish
Íúfism. Samuel Rosenblatt, in his edition and translation of a portion
of that work, noted as early as 1927 that Abraham Maimonides:
. . . not only openly shows his admiration for the Sufis by
praising their way of life, calling them the real lineal
descendents of the prophets, and regretting that the Jews do
not imitate their example84, but his whole ethical system as
outlined in the portion of the כפאיה 85 with which we are
concerned appears to be Sufic from beginning to end in
terminology and ideology, or at least based on some Sufic
prototype.86
Subsequent studies of this text have confirmed these assertions, and
have further revealed that Abraham stood at the head of a line of
Íúfí-inclined Maimonides, from his son down to his great-great-
grandson, who followed him not only in leading the Egyptian Jewish
community, but also in composing Jewish-Íúfí tracts and pressing
vigorously for Islamic-inspired modifications to the daily rituals of
Jewish life.87 From ‘Obaydah Maimonides, son of Abraham, we have
the deeply Íúfí work translated by Fenton as The Treatise of the Pool,
which follows the lead of the Kifáya in valorizing Íúfism as the
inheritor of the spiritual praxis of the ancient Israelite prophets and in
setting forth a mystical program cast in a Íúfí idiom. Three


Andalusí Theosophy


generations later, with David Maimonides’ (d. 1415), we find the
Jewish-Íúfí pietist tradition still going strong. His Murshíd ilá al-
tafarrud (“The Guide to Detachment”) is remarkable for two reasons.
First of all, the range of Íúfí sources is much broader than was the
case for any previous Jewish-Íúfí, encompassing such luminaries as
Dhu’l-Nún al-Mißrí, Abú Tálib al-Makkí, al-Sarráj, Suhrawardí
Maqtúl, Ghazálí, the Andalusí Ibn al-‘Aríf, al-Qushayrí, and al-
Halláj.88 Secondly, this work also quotes writings of the early
Kabbalists, marking a significant attempt at dove-tailing the two
predominant phenomena of Spanish-born Jewish mysticism.
While this last example has described events and personalities
outside of al-Andalus, it is clear that such a movement as the Egyptian
Jewish-Íúfís could not have come into being were it not for the prior
interconfessional developments in Iberia. While Moses Maimonides,
the interconfessional Andalusí par excellence, does not appear to have
shown any direct affinity for Íúfism, it could be argued that his
attitude toward Greek and Islamic philosophy prepared the way for his
son’s approach toward Islamic mysticism. Moses Maimonides felt that
the mysteries of creation and of the divine chariot (ma’aseh bereshit
and ma’aseh merkaveh), as found in the Torah, had been opaque to
Jews since Tannaitic times, the keys to their secrets having somehow
how been lost.89 His claim to have rediscovered them among the
wisdom of the “Gentiles,” in the Neoaristotelean corpus that would
provide the basis for his own philosophy and theology, is reflected in
his son’s claim to have found in the Íúfís the lost piety of the
prophets of Israel.
Islamic Theosophy: The Murcia School and Its
Interconfessional Context
The figures that I will be concerned with here were all Íúfís born
in Murcia in south-eastern al-Andalus, sometimes referred to as
wujúdí Íúfís. Much like the Jewish theosophies considered above, the
Murcia school presents striking evidence of an interconfessional
context.
By far the most important figure of this school is Mu˙yí al-Dín
Ibn al-‘Arabí (d. 1240), the most influential theosopher of Islamic
history. In more than 400 books — the longest of which would cover
37 volumes in its projected critical edition — he presented an
astonishing synthesis of Islamic knowledge and spiritual reflection
into a grand mythological picture of the cosmos. Research into the
sources of his thought has been tentative at best, and like the
Kabbalah, has been at times subject to the whims of counter-history.90
As was the case with Scholem and Kabbalah, the occasional attempts
at tracing the history of his thought that have been made have paid

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

too little attention to the Andalusí context. For example, in the sole
monograph on the important doctrine of the “perfect man” in Ibn al-
‘Arabí, the author surveys Augustine and Ghazálí before concluding
that Ibn al-‘Arabí has the patent on the concept.91 More proximate
sources of possible precendents to Ibn al-‘Arabí’s usage is neglected,
and no attention is given to the fact that Maimonides uses the precise
terminology (al-insán al-kámil) throughout the Guide, developing the
earlier usage of the term by the great Islamic philosopher, al-Fárábí.92
Ibn al-‘Arabí’s work is indeed of such a grandeur and profundity
that no intellectual history could “explain” it simply by identifying
sources and influences. However, his thought does not exist in a
vacuum, and the attribution of novelty to his formulation of Islamic
spirituality rings hollow when no attempt is made to mark off what is
truly new with him from what is drawn from his milieu. Again, I am
not going to attempt here to reconstruct the history of his thought,
but only to point out certain facts which place him in the context of
the Andalusí Judeo-Islamic symbiosis, a context in light of which the
history of Ibn al-‘Arabí and his influence needs to be rewritten.
Despite the vastness of his output, Ibn al-‘Arabí very rarely refers
to
philosophical
predecessors.
Of
the
contacts
with
his
contemporaries, he refers several times to his meetings with Ibn
Rushd, but his judgment of the latter is a complex issue.93 He refers
in his magnum opus, the Futú˙át al-Makkiyya, to a discussion he had
with a Rabbi about the mystical significance of the letter “B,” (Arabic
bá`, Hebrew bet), with which both the Torah and the Qur’an begin.
In a number of places, he refers to the Torah, but these appear to be
very general allusions. And while his works lack any direct reference
to most of the towering figures of Islamic philosophy — al-Kindí, al-
Fárábí, Ibn Síná, Ibn Tufayl — he does refer at least twice to
Ba†alyúsí, which underlines the commonality of sources between he
and the Spanish Kabbalists. In a highly significant passage in the
Futú˙át, where Ibn al-‘Arabí describes his encounter with the
mysterious “Youth” around the Ka’aba, he quotes from the Theology
of Aristotle.94 Once again, Ibn al-‘Arabí shares the same critical
source-texts as the Judeo-Islamic philosophers and the Kabbalists.95
It is with two of Ibn al-‘Arabí’s Murcian compatriots, however,
that we find the most direct evidence of the interconfessional context
for this theosophy. ‘Abd al-Óaqq Ibn Sab’ín (d. 1270), a younger
contemporary of Ibn al-‘Arabí, propounded a radically pantheistic
doctrine, known in Islamic sources as wa˙dat al-wujúd, and insisted
fiercely on the independence of his thought.96 Thus, he directly
criticized Ibn Masarra and Ibn al-‘Arabí, his Andalusí predecessors,
while at the same time developing his system using their terminology.
The strikingly Hermetic character of Ibn Sab’ín and his school —
Hermes is included in the Sab’íniyyún silsilah - links it with Kabbalah,


Andalusí Theosophy


which also found Hermeticism a fertile source for contemplation.97
Most importantly, though, Ibn Sab’ín found inspiration in Jewish
sources, citing Maimonides’ Guide of the Perplexed in his Risála
Núriyya98 and including the Jewish angels Yahoel and Metatron in an
invocation found in his treatise on the letter qáf.99 His philosophical
correspondence with Emperor Frederick II further displays his
knowledge of Maimonidean thought.100 A later follower of both Ibn
Sab’ín and Ibn al-‘Arabí, the thirteenth-century Egyptian magician al-
Búní, also “included Metatron in his repertoire, along with other
Jewish motifs.”101
This interconfessionalism becomes even more pronounced when
we consider the career of Ibn Sab’ín’s disciple, the fellow-Murcian Ibn
Húd (d. 1300), who worked as a physician and mystical guide in
Damascus, finding clients among both Muslims and Jews. He is said
to have proclaimed his readiness to guide any aspirant in any of the
three ways — Christianity, Judaism, or Islam. Following Ibn Sab’ín’s
interest in Maimonides, Ibn Húd is known to have taught the Guide
of the Perplexed to Damascene Jews. One source calls him the
“Shaykh of the Jews,” and Kraemer suggests that there may have been
some connection between Ibn Húd’s circle in Damascus and the
“Jewish Súfís” of Cairo.102 Obviously, while the school of Murcia may
have been concerned first and foremost with the inner meaning of the
Qur’an, their contributions to the history of Islamicate thought
cannot be understood without placing them in the context of
Andalusí interconfessionalism.
Conclusion
It should be clear by now how limited such historiographical
distinctions as those between philosophy and mysticism, or even
between Muslim and Jew, ultimately are in aiding our understanding
of the movements considered above. It can also be unequivocally
stated that any explanation of the Judeo-Islamic symbiosis in al-
Andalus that rests on the assumption that “the high culture of the
[Muslims] was to a great degree secular”103 is absurd. What we find in
these events and personalities is not simply thinkers who were
incidentally Jewish interacting creatively with counterparts who were
incidentally
Muslim.
On
the
contrary,
we
find
here
an
interpenetration and crosspollination of values, of precisely religious
ideas and ideals. The ever-eloquent Lenn Goodman wrote, referring to
the medieval Judeo-Islamic philosophical “conversation”:
What we learn from these conversations, as we cock our ears
to listen, is first to doubt and then to deny the stereotypic
notions of nineteenth-century scholarship that would assign
to each race and nation a particular genius or spirit of its

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

own, uncommunicable and inscrutable to any other,
incapable of mixture without adulteration of each distinctive
and
pristine
essence,
but
transparent,
invisible,
unexchangeable and uncriticisible by those who share it or
those who live within its thrall.104
In these words lies a compelling critique of the whole
historiographic debate over convivencia, which sees in medieval Spain
an experience of human “togetherness” only through the lens of
reified differences, naturalized ideological divides. Obviously, such
lines were not drawn on the landscape. In terms of what this suggests
for how we approach the history of mysticism, consider this
influential declaration by Gershom Scholem:
There is no mysticism as such, there is only the mysticism of
a particular religious system, Christian, Islamic, Jewish
mysticism and so on.105
This historian’s appeal itself begs the question of historicity, for what,
indeed, is a religious system “as such?”
The recontextualization that I have argued for here challenges not
only the prevailing historiographical approaches to the beginnings of
the Jewish and Islamic philosophical mysticisms of the Middle Ages; it
also questions the common Western view of medieval Islam as a
civilization “intermediate” between the Hellenistic Age and the
Renaissance,106 whose sole purpose in the grand telos of history was to
rescue the torch of Greek enlightenment that it might duly be passed
to Europe, its rightful inheritor.107 The importance of the Andalusí
“Golden Age” in the development of Western civilization cannot be
gainsaid, but nor should this symbiotic achievement be seen as having
been without issue for the Islamicate world. Far from being simply
passed on, the torch held aloft in al-Andalus fired not only the
scientific revolutions of Europe; it also flooded with its lights the
minds of the Jewish and Muslim mystics of the East.


NOTES
1 The vast influence exerted upon the history of Islamic thought by the
figure at the center of the Akbarian movement, Mu˙yí al-dín Ibn al-
‘Arabí (known as the Shaykh al-Akbar (“Doctor Maximus”), whence
the term “Akbarian”), has been demonstrated in a large number of
studies,
but
see
the
concise
presentation
in
Chodkiewicz,
“Diffusion.” The persistence of Kabbalah into our own times is well
known and it has even entered into popular culture, but critical
historiography of Kabbalah in the modern period is lacking, for
reasons discussed by Idel in Kabbalah: New Perspectives, pp. 25f.


Andalusí Theosophy



2 Wasserstrom and Kiener are the significant exceptions, and their
relevant studies will be cited throughout what follows.
3 As will be explained below, I refer here not to the “school of Ibn al-
‘Arabí” that extends via his disciple and son-in-law Íadr al-Dín al-
Qúnáwí, but rather with the so-called “Murcian school” that includes
Ibn Sab’ín and Ibn Húd.
4 I borrow this term from Marshall Hodgson, who introduced and
defended its usage in his Venture of Islam, vol. 1, pp. 57-60.
“Islamicate” refers to the “culture, centered on a lettered tradition,
which has been historically distinctive of Islamdom the society, and
which has been naturally shared in by both Muslims and non-Muslims
who participate at all fully in the society of Islamdom” (ibid., p. 58,
with Hodgson’s emphases).
5 For a synopsis of these developments, see Fakhry, Short Introduction,
chap. 1.
6 On which see Hodgson, op. cit., chap. 5.
7 On the early Islamicate “humanists” see Kraemer, Humanism, and
Leaman, “Islamic Humanism.”
8 Leaman, op. cit., p. 156.
9 The still-standard work on this issue is Wolfson’s Philosophy of the
Kalám. For more on the interconfessional contexts of both of these
early developments, see Ben-Shammai, “Jewish Thought,” passim.
10 Safran, The Second Umayyad Caliphate.
11 Cohen’s “The Story of the Four Captives” is an excellent study of the
mythohistorical underpinnings given to this unprecedented break
with Baghdad by Abraham ibn Da’úd in his Sefer ha-Qabbalah. See also
Ben-Sasson’s “The Emergence of the Qayrawán Jewish Community”
for a study of a parallel development of independence from Baghdad
on the part of the Jewish community under the Ifriqí Aghlabids.
12 From the Jewish side, see Abraham ibn Da’úd’s comments in his Sefer
ha-Qabbalah, translated in Cohen, op. cit., p. 159. For the Muslim
side, see Íá’id al-Andalusí’s glowing report of Ibn Shapru†’s
establishment of the Andalusí Jewish community’s independence
from Baghdád in his †abaqát al-Umam, translated by Norman Stillman
in Jews of Arab Lands, p. 210.
13 The literature on the “Golden Age” is vast and charged with polemic.
Stillman (op. cit., pp. 53-63) and Mark Cohen, Under Crescent and
Cross, present both the details of the symbiosis and surveys of the
polemical arguments. See also Wasserstrom, Between Muslim and Jew,
chap. six, for insightful reflections on the study of Jewish-Muslim
symbiosis.
14 For a recent and provocative challenge to this anachonistic
dichotomization of pre-modern philosophy, see Hadot, What is
Ancient Philosophy?
15 I refer of course to the so-called Theology of Aristotle, which was
essentially a compilation of paraphrased extracts from Plotinus’

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven


Enneads with commentaries by Proclus. See Kraye et al, Pseudo-
Aristotle.
16 On account of his Bidáyat al-Mujtahid, recently translated by Imran
Ahsan Khan Nyazee as The Distinguished Jurist’s Primer (Reading, UK:
Garnett Publishing, 1999).
17 Ivry, “Averroes and the West,” p. 143.
18 On Israeli, see Altmann and Stern’s excellent monograph, Isaac Israeli,
with translations of most of his extent works.
19 On the long version of the Theology of Aristotle, see Fenton, “The
Arabic and Hebrew Versions.” On Israeli’s role in its transmission,
see Altmann and Stern, Isaac Israeli, pp. 95ff; Zimmerman, “Origin,”
pp. 190-4; and d’Alverny, “Pseudo-Aristotle,” passim. On the
suggestion of a Judeo-Isma’ílí matrix for the development of the long
version, see Wasserstrom, “Islamic Social and Cultural Context,” p.
100.
20 Altmann and Stern, op. cit., pp. 130-2.
21 Altmann, “Delphic Maxim,” p. 33 and n. 151. In refering to de Leon as
the “author of the Zohar,” I am purposefully sidestepping the
ongoing debate about this issue. Suffice it to point out that, ever
since Scholem’s detailed investigations into the matter of the Zohar’s
authorship (Major Trends, pp. 156-204) it has been recognized by
historians that Moses de Leon played a central — if not sole — role in
its composition. More recent debates have tended to center on
whether distinctions can be made between different strata of the
Zoharic text, some of which may not have been written by de Leon.
On this whole issue see Liebes, Studies, chap. 2.
22 Fenton, op. cit., p. 260n 2.
23 Altmann and Stern, op. cit., pp. xiii and 8. The Gháyat al-˙akím is itself
a fascinating milestone in medieval interconfessionalism, lying as it
does at the nexus of the parallel traditions of the magical generation
of an artificial anthropoid (the golem, homonculus) in Judaism,
Christianity, and Islam. See O’Connor, Alchemical Creation, p. 189n
23 and 24.
24 This is argued by d’Alverny, op. cit., p. 69. See also Altmann, “Delphic
Maxim,” p. 33.
25 The most extensive treatment of Ibn Masarra’s life and thought is Asín
Palacion, The Mystical Philosophy, a work which has been consistently
criticized for making over-much of a pseudo-Empedoclean source for
Ibn Masarra’s doctrine. More recent treatments of Ibn Masarra can
be found in Goodman, “Ibn Masarrah,” and Addas, “Andalusí
Mysticism,” pp. 911-20. Two of Ibn Masarra’s surviving works are
printed in M. Kamal Ibrahim Ja’far, Min qadaya’l-fikr al-islami (Cairo:
Dar al-‘ulum, 1978); note that these works were unknown to Asin and
have been almost completely neglected even in more recent
scholarship; the above-cited article by Goodman, for instance, though
noting Ja’far’s book in his bibliography, states erroneously in the
article itself that none of Ibn Masarra’s works survive.


Andalusí Theosophy



26 See Addas, Quest, pp. 58f. She quotes Ibn al-‘Arabí’s Kitáb al-Mím wa
l-wáw wa l-nún (Book of (the letters) M, W, and N), where he states
that his approach to the secrets of these letters is “in the manner of
Ibn Masarra.” Note that the theses regarding the Throne attributed
to Ibn Masarra by Ibn al-‘Arabí — and much discussed by Asin
Palacios — do not appear in either of Ibn Masarra’s surviving works,
nor does one find in those texts any extended discussion of the
Throne at all.
27 Shem Tov Ibn Falaquera translated pseudo-Empedocles’ Book of Five
Substances into Hebrew, and asserted that it had been a major
influence on Ibn Gabirol. See Jospe, Torah and Sophia, p. 74. The
pseudo-Empedoclean doctrine of the vegetative soul seems to have
been generally known and often affirmed in Andalusí philosophical
literature.
28 According to Urvoy, Ibn Rushd, p. 5, his was “the first true
‘philosophical system’ to be developed in al-Andalus,” Jewish or
otherwise.
29 On Ibn Gabirol, see Lancaster, “Ibn Gabirol,” and Sirat, History, pp.
68-81. Altmann, “Delphic Maxim,” p. 35, states that the “influence of
the Pseudo-Empedocles Fragments on Solomon ibn Gabirol cannot
be gainsaid.” See his references in ibid., n. 157.
30 This promotion of the Will to a cosmological priority over the First
Intellect is a departure from classical Neoplatonism traceable to the
long version of the Theology of Aristotle. See the extracts and
discussion in Zimmerman, “Origins,” p. 192f.
31 Pulcini, Exegesis as Polemical Discourse, chap. 3. The Shi’ur Qomah (lit.
“measure of the body”) describes the proportions and mystical
significances of the Divine Body, much utilized in Kabbalistic
literatures. See Scholem, Kabbalah, Index, sv. “Shi’ur Komah.”
32 Pulcini, op. cit., p. 142n 14, writes that “Ibn Nagrela’s political,
military, religious, and literary successes were a source of
embitterment to the disillusioned Ibn Óazm during his reclusive years
in Mont Lisham.” It is interesting to note also that the anti-Qur’anic
work which Ibn Óazm attacks in this polemic, and which he attributed
to Ibn Nagrela, was in fact not by Ibn Nagrela but rather Ibn al-
Ráwandí, the notorious 9th century Muslim “free-thinker.” See
Stroumsa, “Jewish Polemics,” p. 245.
33 Some have argued, following Goldziher, that Ibn al-‘Arabí followed the
  áhirí legal madhhab of Ibn Óazm, but this is open to question. See
al-Ghorab, “Muhyiddin Ibn al-Arabí.”
34 Fenton, “Judaism and Sufism,” p. 756f.
35 Sirat, History, p. 82, and Altmann, “The Delphic Maxim,” pp. 24f. and
36f. On the Ikhwán al-Íafá in general, see Netton, Muslim
Neoplatonists.
36 Fenton, “Judaism and Sufism,” p. 757.
37 Corbin, History, p. 236.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven


38 See Addas, Quest, p. 108. On the use of these symbols of the emanative
process in early Kabbalistic literature, and the suggestion of
Ba†alyúsí as the source, see Wilensky, “First Created Being,” p. 75n
18.
39 There are a number of studies revealing Judah Halevi’s remarkable
integration into an interconfessional environment. One recent work,
which surveys the history of this research while at the same time
adding new insights into the depth of the penetration of Íúfí
concepts into Halevi’s thinking, is Lobel, Between Mysticism and
Philosophy.
40 On these networks, and the common thread of medical profession
linking many of these Jewish and Muslim philosophers, see Glick,
Islamic and Christian Spain, p. 256, and Wasserstom, “Islamic Social
and Cultural Context,” p. 99: “Jewish and Muslim philosopher-
physicians thus met with and learned from each other. Their
occasional friendships could develop such intensity that ibn al-Qif†í
(d. 1248) and ibn ‘Aqnín (an Andalusí, pupil of Maimonides) (d. early
thirteenth century) were said to have vowed ‘that whoever preceded
the other in death would have to send reports from eternity to the
survivor.’”
41 Wasserstrom, “Islamic Social and Cultural Context,” p. 96, observes
that “some of the sweetest fruits of Islamic philosophy — al-Fárábí
(870-950), ibn Bájja (d. 1138), ibn †ufayl (d. 1185) — were preserved,
translated, transmitted, and reverently studied by Jews.” Dominique
Urvoy, in Ibn Rushd, p. 109, writes of “the fact that Ibn Rushd has no
important followers in the Muslim circles, that his work only survived
thanks to his influence on a certain Jewish bourgeoisie.”
42 Wasserstrom, “Jewish-Muslim Relations,” p. 75, where it is noted that
they were both resident in Cairo again in 1206, though it’s unclear
what is meant here, given that Maimonides died in 1204.
43 Ibn al-‘Arabí’s famous biographical account of the Íúfís of al-Andalús,
the Rú˙ al-Quds, was, according to Ibn al-‘Arabí himself, inspired by
the chauvanism and anti-Andalusí prejudice that he met among the
Íúfís of Egypt. For Maimonides’ pining for al-Andalus, see (but be
warned of the Derrida-inspired prose), Anidjar, “Our Place in Al-
Andalus.” Wasserstrom notes several additional studies focusing on
Maimonides’ self-conception as an Andalusí throughout his life in
“Jewish-Muslim Relations,” p. 78n 1.
44 “The Islamic Social and Cultural Context,” p. 105n 1.
45 Origins, p. 45, but stated and restated in many other instances
throughout his oeuvre. Joseph Dan, one of Scholem’s former students
and the current occupant of the Gershom Scholem Chair of Kabbalah
at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, has noted in several instances
that decades of scholarship have turned up absolutely no evidence to
support Scholem’s thesis of Gnostic influence; see Dan, Early
Kabbalah, pp. 5-7, and idem, Heart and the Fountain, p. 29.
46 In situating his approach as against his 19th-century predecessors,
Scholem wrote that “the kabbalistic movement cannot be described


Andalusí Theosophy



adequately according to the categories of the history of philosophy; it
can only be explained in terms of the history of religions . . .”
(Origins, p. 11). Cf. Eliade: “But if we are to avoid sinking back into
an obsolete ‘reductionism,’ this history of religious meanings must
always be regarded as forming part of the history of the human spirit”
(Quest, p. 9). For Eliade as well as for Scholem, there is a double
meaning to the term “history” here: it is not only religious meaning
as the object of historircal enquiry, but also the historian of these
meanings, that forms a part of and plays a role in the “history of the
human spirit.”
47 See Biale, Gershom Scholem, passim, and Wasserstrom, Religion after
Religion, esp. pages 159-61.
48 I would strongly qualify this, though, with reference to the work of
Moshe Idel, who has consistently proposed alternative avenues of
approach to the historiography of Kabbalah. Nonetheless, a post-
Scholem comprehensive history of the early Kabbalah is yet to
appear, though Yizhak Baer’s work could be considered as a
framework for such an alternative. Idel seems to see Baer’s work in
this way, in Kabbalah: New Perspectives, p. 13.
49 Scholem considered the Catharist movement as an influence in the
emergence of Kabbalah, but see Idel, Studies in Ecstatic, pp. 33-44.
Likewise he considered certain characteristics of the Gerona
Kabbalists to have perhaps derived from Joachim of Fiore, whereas
Willensky’s research has shown an Islamic provenance to these
characteristics to be much more likely. See below.
50 “Jewish Mysticism,” p. 452.
51 According to Scholem, Origins, p. 369, a total of twelve members of
this circle are known by name.
52 Ibid., p. 410f.
53 Ibid., p. 411.
54 Ibid., p. 413.
55 “Neoplatonism,” p. 326f.
56 Ibid., p. 320.
57 Translated in Scholem, Origins, p. 462.
58 On Nasafí as a member of this school, see Chittick, “The School of Ibn
‘Arabí,” p. 519, and Ridgeon, Persian Metaphysics, pp. 19f.
59 Ridgeon, Persian Metaphysics, pp. 237f.
60 Scholem, Origins, p. 467n 239.
61 Alexander Altmann has produced a series of studies tracing various
symbols and motifs through the Andalusí philosophical milieu and
into the theosophies of Ibn al-‘Arabí and the Gerona Kabbalists. I
cannot here recapitulate the extensive evidence adduced by Altmann,
and instead refer the reader to his “Delphic Maxim,” “‘Ladder of
Ascension’,” and “Motif of the ‘Shells’.” These studies are treasure-
troves of the kinds of thematic continuities that could be fruitfully
pursued along the lines of the recontextualization suggested here.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven


62 “Guide and the Gate,” pp. 267f.
63 Wilensky, “Isaac ibn La†if,” passim.
64 Idem, “Guide and the Gate,” pp. 272f
65 Idem, “Guide and the Gate,” pp. 273f; “First Created Being,” pp. 69f.
66 Idem, “First Created Being,” p. 76n 32; “Guide and the Gate,” p. 272n 22.
67 Idem, “First Created Being,” pp. 72ff.
68 This transliteration is often met with in the secondary sources, but
“Ba†alyúsí” more accurately reflects how this name is pronounced.
The name literally means “from Badajoz.”
69 Ibid., p. 69f. Ibn La†if’s doctrine of the First Created Being is
strikingly similar to the idea of the “Mu˙ammadan Reality,” the “third
thing” in Ibn al-‘Arabí’s system. I cannot explore this parallel here,
but it is by no means the only such correspondence between the two
Spanish theosophies. These correspondences are but one of the many
areas of research that my suggested recontexualization would
fruitfully open up for inquiry.
70 On Abulafia and Andalusí philosophy, see Idel, Studies in Ecstatic,
chap. 1; idem., “Maimonides and Kabbalah,” pp. 54-79; on Abulafia
and Íufism, see Studies in Ecstatic, chaps. 5-7, and idem., Mystical
Experience, index, sv. “Sufism.”
71 On these two major forms of early Kabbalah, see Idel, “Defining
Kabbalah,” passim. Idel responds to what he sees as an over-emphasis
on the theosophical or speculative elements in Kabbalah in Scholem’s
and most subsequent scholarship, and shows that there is also a
significant theurgical and ecstatic trend, represented first and
foremost by Abulafia and his school. Recently, Eliot Wolfson has
challenged the adequacy of this speculative/ecstatic dichotomy,
highlighting the experiential elements in the former and thus
questioning the very basis for this phenomenological distinction. See
his “Jewish Mysticism,” esp. p. 483.
72 According to Idel (“Maimonides and Kabbalah,” p. 55, and Studies in
Ecstatic, p. 2), Isaac Ibn La†if, Moses de Leon, and Joseph Gikatilla
were among Abulafia’s Kabbalistic contemporaries whose lives traced
a similar trajectory in beginning with philosophical studies before
authoring what would become central Kabbalistic texts.
73 Abulafia wrote three. See Idel, “Maimonides and Kabbalah,” p. 58. It
would appear that his contemporary, Joseph Gikatllla, was the only
other author to write a Kabbalistic commentary to the Guide. Ibid.,
p. 62. It should also be noted that two of Abulafia’s Guide
commentaries were translated into Latin, and it was on the basis of
these that many of the key elements of ecstatic Kabbalah made their
way into Christian Kabbalah, along with the view, promulgated by
Pico della Mirandola, that Maimonides was a Kabbalist. See ibid., p. 70.
74 Wasserstrom, “Jewish-Muslim Relations,” p. 75; Idel, Studies in
Ecstatic, p. 23n 34.
75 Studies in Ecstatic, p. 16.


Andalusí Theosophy



76 Idel, Studies in Ecstatic, esp. chap. 7. There, on p. 111, Idel writes that
Abulafia’s connection with Íúfism was “a relationship acknowledge
by the Kabbalists themselves.” Unfortunately, no sources are
indicated for this.
77 I have noted a great many similarities between the Abulafian
Kabbalistic texts and the writings of Ibn al-‘Arabí, and this deserves
closer study. One issue that I have not seen touched on in any of the
secondary literature is the remarkable similarity between the central
Abulafian
exegetical/theurgical
technique
of
Ωeruf
(letter
permutation) and the Akbarian notion of taßarruf (free disposal,
magical
power,
grammatical
inflection,
transformation,
permutation). These two words derive from the same Semitic tri-
literal root (Ω-r-f = ß-r-f), and the contexts of their deployment in the
two respective mystical traditions are often identical.
78 Íúfí influences on Isaac of Acre had been noted as early as 1852, by
Adolph Jellinek. See Fenton, in ‘O. Maimonides, Treatise of the Pool,
p. 63n 94 for an extensive outline of Isaac’s appropriation of Íúfí
materials.
79 Idel, Studies in Ecstatic, chap. 5, at p. 73.
80 For this hierarchy in the school of Ibn al-‘Arabí, see the masterful
survey in Chittick, “Five Divine Presences,” passim.
81 Studies in Ecstatic, p. 75.
82 There is, however, ample evidence to suggest that this Cairene pietist
movement — in some form — predates both Maimonides and
Abraham ha-˙asíd. See Cohen, “Soteriology,” p. 209.
83 In ‘O. Maimonides, Treatise of the Pool, p. 7.
84 See Fenton, in ibid., p. 8, for the translations of the passages in which
these sentiments are expressed.
85 This is Judeo-Arabic, a tranliteration of kifáya, i.e., the Kitáb Kifáyat
al-‘  bidín of Abraham Maimonides, which Rosenblatt translates as
“The Comprensive Guide for the Servants of God.”
86 In A. Maimonides, High Ways, p. 50.
87 On the attempted reforms of Jewish ritual, such as the introduction of
Islamic-style ablutions, genuflections, prostrations, and serried-rank
congregational prayer, see Goitein, “Abraham Maimonides,” p. 147f.
and Fenton in ‘O. Maimonides, op. cit., pp. 13ff.
88 These are identified en passant throughout Rosenthal’s study of the
text, “A Judaeo-Arabic Work under Sufic Influence.” Rosenthal was
unable to identify the author, which lacuna was filled in by Fenton,
“Judaism and Sufism,” p. 763.
89 See Idel, “Maimonides and Kabbalah,” p. 34, and Altmann,
“Maimonides’s Attitude,” passim.
90 See my “Counter-History of Islam.”
91 Takeshita, Ibn ‘Arabí’s Theory, passim, and p. 49.
92 On Maimonides’ concept of the “perfect man” and its possibly
relationship to Ibn al-‘Arabí, see Kiener, “Ibn al-‘Arabí and the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven


Qabbalah,” 38-44. On the “perfect man” in al-Fárábí, the source for
Maimonides’ development of the concept, see Strauss, Persecution,
p. 15.
93 See Rosenthal, “Ibn ‘Arabí,” passim.
94 See Corbin, Creative Imagination, p. 385.
95 The number of similarities that Ibn al-‘Arabí’s works share with those
of his Spanish-Jewish theosophical counterparts is vast, and cannot
be detailed here. Some have already been mentioned above in
connection with Abulafian Kabbalah. For a number of further
parallels, see Wasserstrom, “Jewish-Muslim Relations,” pp. 75f.
96 Despite the fact that the doctrine of wa˙dat al-wujúd is commonly
fathered on Ibn al-‘Arabí in both Islamic and Western literatures, he
himself never used this precise term in his known writings. According
to William Chittick, the Western authority on this school, Ibn Sab’ín
was the first to use the term in its technical sense. See his “Rúmí and
wa˙dat al-wujud,” p. 82.
97 As Wasserstrom notes, “Jewish-Muslim Relations,” p. 73: “The first
Jewish philosophers to claim this (Hermetic) spiritual genealogy,
Moses ibn Ezra, Judah Halevi, and Abraham ibn Ezra, were twelfth-
century Spanish members of the same circle. . . . In this way, the figure of
Hermes stood for a transconfessional wisdom, a universal revelation,
which doctrine further endorsed Muslim study of Jewish works.”
98 Ibid., pp. 72 and 74.
99 Vincent Cornell, personal communication with the present author,
dated 5/29/2003. For more on Ibn Sab’ín and Hermeticism, see
Cornell’s “Way of the Axial Intellect.”
100 Wasserstrom, “Jewish-Muslim Relations,” p. 74.
101 Ibid., p. 76.
102 Kraemer, “Andalusian Mystic,” p. 72. For a survey of Ibn Húd’s career
and his interconfessional activities, see ibid., pp. 66-73.
103 Glick, Islamic and Christian Spain, p. 174f. Glick continues this
thought by attributing the comparative absence of Jewish integration
into the intellectual movements in Christian cultural spheres to the
fact that the Jews’ “secular culture was incongruent with the
religiously oriented high culture of the Christians.”
104 Jewish and Islamic, pp. viii-ix.
105 Major Trends, p. 6.
106 The classical presentation of this view being Goitein, “Between
Hellenism and Renaissance.” See Wasserstrom’s critical comments on
such a characterization in Between Muslim and Jew, pp. 225ff.
107 The obvious implication of this narrative is that philosophy, once
transmitted to Europe, ceased to exist in any real sense in Islamdom.
With notable exceptions, such as Corbin’s History of Islamic
Philosophy, this view has had a rather surprising currency among
twentieth-century historians. Such an otherwise keen and careful
scholar as Harry Wolfson, for instance, could write seriously of “the


Andalusí Theosophy



abrupt disappearance of philosophic activity among the Arabic-
speaking peoples, which synchronizes with the death of Averroes”
(“Revised Plan,” p. 88).
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Addas, Claude. Quest for the Red Sulfur: The Life of Ibn ‘Arabí. Trans.
Peter Kingsley. Cambridge: Islamic Texts Society, 1993.
———. “Andalusi Mysticism and the Rise of Ibn ‘Arabí,” in The Legacy of
Muslim Spain, vol. 2, ed. S.K. Jayyusi, Leiden: Brill, 1992, pp. 909-36.
Altmann, Alexander. “The Delphic Maxim in Medieval Islam and
Judaism,” in Altmann, Studies, pp. 1-40.
———. “‘The Ladder of Ascension’,” in Altmann, Studies, pp. 41-72.
———. “Maimonides’s Attitude Toward Jewish Mysticism,” in Jospe,
Studies, pp. 200-19.
———. “The Motif of the ‘Shells’ in ‘Azriel of Gerona,” in Altmann,
Studies, pp. 172-9.
———. Studies in Religious Philosophy and Mysticism. London: Routledge
& Kegan Paul, 1969.
———, ed. Jewish Medieval and Renaissance Studies. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press, 1967.
Altmann, Alexander, and S.M. Stern. Isaac Israeli, a Neoplatonic
Philosopher of the Early Tenth Century. (1958). Westport, CT:
Greenwood Press, 1979.
Anidjar, Gil. “Our Place in al-Andalus”: Kabbalah, Philosophy, Literature
in Arab Jewish Letters. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press, 2002.
Asin Palacios, Miguel. The Mystical Philosophy of Ibn Masarra and His
Followers. Trans. Elmer H. Douglas and Howard W. Yoder. Leiden:
Brill, 1978.
Ben-Sasson, Menahem. “The Emergence of the Qayrawán Jewish
Community and its Importance as a Maghrebi Community,” in Golb,
Judaeo-Arabic, pp. 1-14.
Ben-Shammai, Haggai. “Jewish Thought in Iraq in the 10th Century,” in
Golb, Judaeo-Arabic, pp. 15-32.
Biale,
David.
Gershom
Scholem:
Kabbalah
and
Counter-History.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1979.
Brown, Vahid. “A Counter-History of Islam: Ibn al-‘Arabí within the
Spiritual Topography of Henry Corbin.” Journal of the Muhyiddin Ibn
Arabí Society 32 (2002), pp. 45-66.
Chittick, William C. “The Five Divine Presences: From al-Qunawi to al-
Qaysari.” The Muslim World 72 (1982), pp. 107-128.
———. The Heart of Islamic Philosophy: The Quest for Self-Knowledge in
the Teachings of Af∂al al-Dín Káshání. Oxford and New York: Oxford
University Press, 2001.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven


———. “Rumi and wahdat al-wujud,” in Poetry and Mysticism in Islam: The
heritage of Rumi, A. Banani, R. Hovannisian, and G. Sabagh, eds.,
Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1996, pp. 70-111.
———. “The School of Ibn ‘Arabí,” in Nasr and Leaman, History of
Islamic Philosophy, pp. 510-523.
———. The Self-Disclosure of God: Principles of Ibn al-‘Arabí’s
Cosmology. Albany: State University of New York Press, 1998.
Chodkiewicz, Michel. An Ocean Without Shore: Ibn Arabí, The Book, and
the Law. Trans. David Streight. Albany: State University of New York
Press, 1993.
———. “The Diffusion of Ibn 'Arabí's Doctrine”. Journal of the
Muhyiddin Ibn ‘Arabí Society 9 (1991), pp. 36-57.
Cohen, Gerson D. “The Soteriology of R. Abraham Maimuni,” in Cohen,
Studies in the Variety, pp. 209-242.
———. “The Story of the Four Captives,” in Cohen, Studies in the Variety,
pp. 157-208.
Cohen, Gerson D, ed. Studies in the Variety of Rabbinic Cultures.
Philadelphia: Jewish Publication Society, 1991
Cohen, Mark R. Under Crescent and Cross: The Jews in the Middle Ages.
Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1994.
Corbin, Henry. Creative Imagination in the Sufism of Ibn ‘Arabí.
Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1969.
Cornell, Vincent J. “The Way of the Axial Intellect: The Islamic
Hermeticism of Ibn Sab'in”. Journal of the Muhyiddin Ibn ‘Arabí
Society 22 (1997).
d’Alverny, Marie-Thérèse. “Pseudo-Aristotle, De Elementis,” in Kraye, et
al, Pseudo-Aristotle, pp. 63-83.
Dan, Joseph, ed. The Early Kabbalah. New York: Paulist Press, 1986.
———. The Heart and the Fountain: An Anthology of Jewish Mystical
Experiences. Oxford and New York: Oxford University Press, 2002.
Eliade, Mircea. The Quest: History and Meaning in Religion. Chicago and
London: University of Chicago Press, 1969.
Elmore, Gerald T. Islamic Sainthood in the Fullness of Time: Ibn al-‘Arabí's
Book of the fabulous gryphon. Leiden: Brill, 1999.
Fakhry, Majid. A Short Introduction to Islamic Philosophy, Theology, and
Mysticism. Oxford: Oneworld Press, 1997.
Fenton, Paul B. “Abraham Maimonides (1186-1237), Founding a Mystical
Dynasty,” in Conference “Jewish Mystical Leadership, (1200-1270),
New York: Jewish Theological Seminary, 1989, first article (no
continuous pagination).
———. “The Arabic and Hebrew Versions of the Theology of Aristotle,” in
Kraye, et al, Pseudo-Aristotle, pp. 241-264.
———. “Judaeo-Arabic mystical writings of the XIIIth-XIVth centuries,”
in Golb, Judaeo-Arabic, pp. 87-101.
———. “Judaism and Sufism,” in Nasr and Leaman, History, pp. 755-768.


Andalusí Theosophy



Frank, David H., and Oliver Leaman, eds. History of Jewish Philosophy.
London and New York: Routledge, 1997.
al-Ghorab, Mahmoud. “Muhyiddin Ibn al-Arabí Amidst Religions (adyân)
And Schools of Thought (madhâhib).” In Muhyiddin Ibn ‘Arabí: A
Commemorative Volume, S Hirtenstein and M. Tiernan, eds.
Shaftsbury, Dorset: Element Books, for the Muhyiddin Ibn ‘Arabí
Society, 1993, pp. 199-227.
Goitein, Shlomo D. “Abraham Maimonides and His Pietist Circle,” in
Altmann, Jewish Medieval, pp. 145-64.
———. “Between Hellenism and Renaissance: Islam, the Intermediate
Civilization.” Islamic Studies 2 (1963), pp. 217-33.
Golb, Norman, ed. Judaeo-Arabic Studies: Proceedings of the Founding
Conference of the Society for Judaeo-Arabic Studies. Amsterdam:
Harwood Academic Publishers, 1997.
Goodman, Lenn E. “Ibn Masarrah,” in Nasr and Leaman, History of
Islamic Philosophy, pp. 277-293.
Hadot, Pierre. What is Ancient Philosophy? Trans. Michael Chase.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2002.
Herrera, R.A., ed. Mystics of the Book: Themes, Topics, and Typologies.
New York and Berlin: Peter Lang, 1993.
Hodgson, Marshall G.S. The Venture of Islam: Conscience and History in a
World Civilization, 3 vols. Chicago and London: University of
Chicago Press, 1977.
Idel, Moshe. “Defining Kabbalah: The Kabbalah of the Divine Names,”
in Herrera, Mystics of the Book, pp. 97-122.
———. “Jewish Kabbalah and Platonism in the Middle Ages and Renai-
ssance,” in Neoplatonism and Jewish Thought, ed. Lenn Goodman,
Albany, NY: State University of New York Press, 1992, pp. 319-351.
———. Kabbalah: New Perspectives. New Haven, CT: Yale University
Press, 1988.
———. “Maimonides and Kabbalah,” in Studies in Maimonides, ed. Isadore
Twersky, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1990.
———. The Mystical Experience in Abraham Abulafia. Albany, NY: State
University of New York Press, 1988.
———. Studies in Ecstatic Kabbalah. Albany, NY: State University of New
York Press, 1988.
Ivry,
Alfred
L.
“Averroes
and
the
West:
The
First
Encounter/Nonencounter,” in Link-Salinger, Straight Path, pp. 142-158.
Jospe, Alfred, ed. Studies in Jewish Thought: An Anthology of German
Jewish Scholarship. Detroit, MI: Wayne State University Press, 1981.
Jospe, Raphael. Torah and Sophia: The Life and Thought of Shem Tov Ibn
Falaquera. Cincinnati, OH: Hebrew Union College Press, 1988.
Kiener, Ronald. “Ibn al-‘Arabí and the Qabbalah: A Study of Thirteenth-
Century Iberian Mysticism.” Studies in Mystical Literature 2:2 (1982),
pp. 26-53.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven


Kraemer, Joel. “The Andalusian Mystic Ibn Húd and the Conversion of
the Jews.” Israel Oriental Studies 12 (1992), pp. 59-73.
———. Humanism in the Renaissance of Islam: The Cultural Revival During
the Buyid Age. Leiden: E.J. Brill, 1986.
Kraye, Jill, W.F. Ryan, and C.B. Schmitt, eds. Pseudo-Aristotle in the
Middle Ages: The Theology and Other Texts. London: The Warburg
Institute, University of London, 1986.
Leaman, Oliver. “Islamic Humanism in the Fourth/Tenth Century,” in
Nasr and Leaman, History, pp. 155-161.
Liebes, Yehuda. Studies in the Zohar. Trans. A. Schwartz, S. Nakache, and
P. Peli. Albany, NY: SUNY Press, 1993.
Link-Salinger, Ruth, ed. A Straight Path: Studies in Medieval Philosophy
and Culture. Washington, D.C.: The Catholic University of America
Press, 1988.
Lobel, Diana. Between Mysticism and Philosophy: Sufi Language of
Religious Experience in Judah Ha-Levi’s Kuzari. Albany, NY: SUNY
Press, 2000.
Maimonides, Abraham. The High Ways to Perfection of Abraham Maimo-
nides. Trans. Samuel Rosenblatt. 1927. New York: AMS Press, 1966.
Maimonides, ‘Obaydah b. Abraham b. Moses. The Treatise of the Pool: al-
Maqála al-Hawdiyya. Ed. and trans. Paul Fenton. London: Octagon
Press, 1981.
Nasr, Seyyed Hossein, and Oliver Leaman. History of Islamic Philosophy,
vol. I. London and New York: Routledge, 1996.
Netton, Ian Richard. Muslim Neoplatonists: An Introduction to the
Thought of the Brethren of Purity (Ikhwán al-Safá`). (1982) London:
Routledge-Curzon, 2002.
O’Connor, Kathleen. The Alchemical Creation of Life (takwín) and other
Concepts
of
Genesis
in
Medieval
Islam.
Unpublished
Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Pennsylvania, 1994.
Pulcini, Theodore. Exegesis as Polemical Discourse: Ibn Óazm on Jewish
and Christian Scriptures. Atlanta, GA: Scholars Press, 1998.
Ridgeon, Lloyd. Persian Metaphysics: Selected Treatises of ‘Azíz Nasafí.
Richmond, Surrey: Curzon Press, 2002.
Rosenthal, Franz. “Ibn ‘Arabí between 'Philosophy' and 'Mysticism'.”
Oriens 31 (1988), pp. 1-35.
———. “A Judaeo-Arabic Work under Íûfic Influence.” Hebrew Union
College Annual 15 (1940), pp. 433-84.
Safran, Janina M. The Second Umayyad Caliphate: The Articulation of
Caliphal Legitimacy in al-Andalus. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University
Press, 2001.
Scholem, Gershom. Kabbalah. New York: Meridian, 1978.
———. Major Trends in Jewish Mysticism. (1946). New York: Shocken
Books, 1995.
———. Origins of the Kabbalah. Ed. R.J.Z. Werblowski, trans. Allan
Arkush. (1987). Princeton University Press, 1990.


Andalusí Theosophy



Sirat, Colette. A History of Jewish Philosophy in the Middle Ages.
Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1985.
Stillman, Norman A. The Jews of Arab Lands: A History and Source Book.
Philadelphia: The Jewish Publication Society of America, 1979.
Strauss, Leo. Persecution and the Art of Writing. 1952. Chicago and
London: University of Chicago Press, 1988.
Stroumsa, Sarah. “Jewish Polemics Against Islam and Christianity in the
Light of Judaeo-Arabic Texts,” in Golb, Judaeo-Arabic, pp. 241-50.
Takeshita, Masataka. Ibn ‘Arabí’s Theory of the Perfect Man and Its Place
in the History of Islamic Thought. Tokyo: Institute for the Study of
Languages and Cultures of Asia and Africa, 1987.
Urvoy, Dominique. Ibn Rushd (Averroes). Trans. Olivia Stewart. London
and New York: Routledge, 1991.
Wasserstrom, Steven M. Between Muslim and Jew: The Problem of
Symbiosis Under Early Islam. Princeton University Press, 1995.
———. “The Islamic and Social and Cultural Context,” in Frank and
Leaman, History of Jewish Philosophy, pp. 93-114.
———. “Jewish-Muslim Relations in the Context of Andalusian
Emigration,” in Christians, Muslims, and Jews in Medieval and Early
Modern Spain, eds. M.D. Meyerson and E.D. English, Notre Dame,
IN: University of Notre Dame Press, 1999, pp. 69-87.
———. Religion after Religion: Gershom Scholem, Mircea Eliade, and Henry
Corbin at Eranos. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1999.
Wilensky, Sara O. Heller. “The ‘First Created Being’ in Early Kabbalah:
Philosophical and Isma’ilian Sources,” in Jewish Intellectual History in
the Middle Ages, vol. 3, ed. Joseph Dan, Westport, CT: Praeger, 1994,
pp. 65-77.
———. “The Guide and the Gate: The Dialectical Influence of Maimonides
on Isaac ibn La†if and Early Spanish Kabbalah,” in Link-Salinger,
Straight Path, pp. 266-278.
———. “Isaac Ibn La†if — Philosopher or Kabbalist?,” in Altmann, Jewish
Medieval, pp. 185-223.
Wolfson, Eliot. “Jewish Mysticism: A Philosophical Overview,” in Frank
and Leaman, History of Jewish Philosophy, pp. 450-98.
Wolfson, Harry Austryn. The Philosophy of the Kalam. Cambridge, MA:
Harvard University Press, 1976.
———. “Revised Plan for the Publication of a Corpus Commentariorum
Averrois in Aristotelem.” Speculum 38:1 (Jan. 1963), pp. 88-104.
Zimmerman, F.W. “The Origins of the So-called Theology of Aristotle,” in
Kraye, et al, Pseudo-Aristotle, pp. 110-240

Out of Jewish Roots
Studies of Prayer Patterns in Jewish,
Christian, Muslim and Bahá’í Worship
by Ted Brownstein
Abstract
Daily prayer is one of the essential practices of the Abrahamic
religions. Some of the progressive elements of this series
of revelations are demonstrated by this paper as an exploration of the
development of liturgy and personal prayer patterns from its roots in
Judaism and subsequent development in Christianity, Islam and the
Bahá'í Faith.
Introduction
Progressive revelation is central to Bahá’í theology. It is the
bedrock upon which belief in the fundamental unity of religion is
built, as it provides a conceptual basis for seeing the interconnections
between the world’s diverse religions. All are seen as equally valid
paths to God. At the same time each is seen as a spiritual advance-
ment, built upon the traditions and successes of its predecessors.
. . . in accordance with the principle of progressive revelation
every Manifestation of God must needs vouchsafe to the
peoples of His day a measure of divine guidance ampler than
any which a preceding and less receptive age could have
received or appreciated. (WOB 102)*
Less well known but perhaps equally significant, is the Bahá'í
understanding of progressive revelation within the history of each
religion. Receptivity of the people to new spiritual insights grows as
previously revealed teachings are digested and absorbed. Thus spiritual
advancement is seen as an ongoing process within each religious
community. To the extent that believers grasp and apply the
fundamental teachings of their founding prophet, capacity for
further learning is generated. Light begets light.

* All “authoritative” publications are cited by abbreviation; see
Appendix I, page 291. Words of Prophets/Manifestations are
italicized (i.e. quotations from Sacred Writings, not including
statements by Shoghi Effendi or the Universal House of Justice).


Out of Jewish Roots

This divinely purposed delay in the revelation of the basic
laws of God for this age, and the subsequent gradual
implementation of their provisions, illustrate the principle of
progressive revelation which applies even within the ministry
of each Prophet. (KA, Notes, p. 220)
In view of the central importance of progressive revelation, in
both its macro and micro aspects, Bahá'í scholars have a special
interest in documenting the interdependence of the world’s religions.
By identifying the specific threads of belief and practice as they
persist and develop, scholars put flesh on the skeleton of progressive
revelation. In addition, we often find an inter-fertility. It is not just
the newer religions which borrow and adapt practices of the older, but
also vigorous older religions adopting from latter revelations, as the
value of new light becomes apparent. A unified vision of the interplay
and interdependence of the world’s spiritual heritage emerges.
The stepwise advancement of progressive revelation is seen to exist
in all regions of the earth and encompass all spiritual traditions. In
cases where we know only the current spiritual practice of an
indigenous tribe and little of its history, it is assumed by faith that
earlier developmental stages must have existed. The task of tracing
the step-by-step progress is made easier when the spiritual history of a
sequence of revelations is recorded in sacred books. This is precisely
the case with the Abrahamic religions. Judaism, Christianity, Islam,
coupled with the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths, which constitute a millennia
long series of discrete revelatory stages. The existence of the relevant
sacred books, Torah, New Testament, Qur’án, Bábí and Bahá'í
Writings, facilitate the work of any scholar who seeks to trace the
specifics and mechanisms of progressive revelation.
This paper seeks to explore both the continuities and progressive
unfoldments in daily prayer within the Abrahamic family of religions.
Of course, this history is extensive and this paper cannot hope to trace
the hundreds of forms that daily prayer has taken over the millennia.
Nevertheless, certain interesting patterns emerge from a study of
major trends. Worship has been transformed from its focus on
communal sacrifices to a focus on individual communion with God
through prayer. Daily prayer has now become, not only one of
religion’s essential practices, but the heart and soul of spirituality. The
progressive elements of this transformation are seen blossoming
within the sequence of divine revelations running from Moses to
Bahá’u’lláh. These elements are traced in this paper from their roots
in ancient Israel Temple sacrifice, through the development of
synagogue and church liturgies of Judaism and Christianity, five-
times daily prayer of Islam and the obligatory prayer of the Bahá'í
Faith.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

In general, we may think of spiritual progress growing out of the
teachings of each new Prophet. Of special interest are those spiritual
innovations that arise out of popular custom without a claim of
divine mandate that are subsequently sanctified by a later Prophet. To
illustrate, there is no requirement for daily obligatory prayer in the
Torah. Rather Jewish prayer practices developed over time at the
Jerusalem Temple and were well established by popular custom within
the Jewish Community before being sanctified by the revelations of
Christ, Mu˙ammad and Bahá’u’lláh.
Transformation: From Human to Animal
Sacrifice
The history of the Abrahamic religions demonstrates patterns of
worship with decreasing emphasis on communal worship orchestrated
by a priesthood and increasing emphasis on individual worship. Prior
to Abraham, child sacrifice was common in Near Eastern culture. The
sites of ancient sacrificial cemeteries have been found from Amman,
Jordan to Carthage in Tunisia. These cemeteries date from between
the 15th century BCE and the 4th century BCE. (Some scholars claim
that child sacrifice continued at Carthage into the second century CE
but that conclusion is not universally accepted.) The burned skeletons
of otherwise healthy children were buried in urns along with inscribed
prayers and vows.
Child sacrifice was a deeply entrenched custom in Israel as well.
Instances of child sacrifice persisted into the period of the Kings.
Moabite King Mesa offered his son out of desperation while fighting
a losing battle (2 Kings 3:27). Judahite Kings Ahaz and Manassah “do
evil in the sight of the LORD” by burning their sons as offering (2
Kings 16:3; 21:6). A site of child sacrifice in the valley of Hinnom
(Gehenna) was destroyed during Josiah’s Reform in the late seventh
century BCE (2 Kings 23:10; see http://www.usbible.com/Sacrifice/
sacrifice_israel.htm) The continuance of human sacrifices was a
provocation to the Hebrew prophets. The prophet Micah decried
those in his day who “give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit
of my body for the sin of my soul.” (Micah 6:6-7)
In the Torah, Genesis 22, we find a poignant tale wherein an angel
of the LORD puts an end to child sacrifice. It depicts Abraham
traveling to Mount Moriah, binding his son, Isaac, and preparing to
offer him in sacrifice in obedience to God’s command. An angel
intervened, halting the sacrifice. The story stirs compassion both for
Isaac, as the intended victim, and for Abraham, as the one who must
wield the sacrificial knife. The reader’s sympathy for them prepares
the way for the change in worship that follows. The old ways will give
way to new ones. From then on offerings would be of animal only. As


Out of Jewish Roots

we read the story we emotionally align ourselves with Abraham and
wonder how he will have the emotional strength to kill his own child.
God says, “Take your son, your only son, the one you love and
sacrifice him as a burnt offering.” Not only is Isaac described as
Abraham’s son, but he is “the only son” and “the one you love.” All
this would make it incredibly difficult for Abraham to go through
with the sacrifice. Later the emotional volume is raised even higher.
As Abraham is climbing the mountain with his son, Isaac asks, “Where
is the lamb for the burnt offering?” Isaac of course does not realize
that he is the intended sacrificial victim.
Isaac is bound and laid out on the altar, but an angelic hand
intervenes and halts the sacrifice. A sheep whose horns happen to be
caught in a nearby bush, is offered up as a substitute. Thereafter those
who worshipped in the Abrahamic tradition would no longer follow
the long standing practice of sacrificing first born children. The
reform was later encoded in the Torah prohibiting all human sacrifice
(Leviticus 18:21; 20:2-5).
Can the ban on human sacrifice aptly be termed “progressive
revelation?” Some may object claiming that God never commanded
the sacrifice of children. Indeed we have no ancient record of any
such pre-Abrahamic command. Yet progressive revelation need not be
limited to abrogation of one divine law by another. Revelation of new
laws that change common practices serves the same purpose. Clearly
the ban on human sacrifice can rightly be called “progress” as it raised
the value of human life and transformed belief regarding what God
required from His worshippers. This new vision of God was less
harshly demanding, more compassionate.
Further this ban was the first in a chain of reforms that would span
multiple revelations. Soon thereafter the first foreshadows of the end
of the sacrificial cult appeared.
Does the LORD delight in sacrifice and burnt offering
rather than obeying the voice of the LORD? Behold to obey
is better than to sacrifice, to heed is better than the fat of
rams. [1 Samuel 15:22)
Although further centuries would be required, the end of the
sacrificial cult was destined to follow.
Transformation: From Sacrifice to Prayer
From Abraham’s time through the Exodus, obligatory worship
revolved primarily around cultic worship with animal sacrifices on
special occasions presided over by holy men, such as priests or family
patriarchs. Prayer was largely spontaneous. We find no information
regarding systematic daily worship, either prayer or sacrifice during

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

the patriarchal age. Prayer at that time appears to have been on an “as
needed” basis and consisted primarily of petitions in times of need.
(Genesis 20:7) Only with the Torah, and the establishment of the
Tabernacle along with a professional priesthood, do we find
regulations regarding obligatory daily worship of any kind.
Now this is what you shall offer on the altar: two lambs of
the first year, day by day constantly. One lamb you shall
offer in the morning, and the other lamb you shall offer at
twilight . . . And you shall offer it with grain offering and
drink offering . . . for a sweet aroma, an offering made by fire
to the LORD. This shall be a continual burnt offering
throughout your generations at the door of the tabernacle of
meeting before the LORD . . . (Exodus 29:38-42)
And you shall make an altar to burn incense on . . . Aaron shall
burn on it sweet incense every morning when he tends the
lamps. And when Aaron lights the lamps at twilight, he shall
burn incense upon it, a perpetual incense before the LORD
throughout your generations. (Exodus 30:1, 7-8)
Surprisingly, however, the instructions to the priests contain no
mention of prayers to be offered in conjunction with the daily burnt
offerings. Prayer continued to be primarily associated with petitions
for aid (Numbers 21:7) or special occasion blessings (Leviticus 9:22;
Numbers 6:24-26). Odd as it may seem to us, in view of our
contemporary association of worship and prayer, there apparently
were no formalized daily prayers in the time of either Abraham or
Moses. If regular prayers of praise or thanksgiving were used, we have
no record of them. The earliest mention of daily pray in the Biblical
record appears around the time of the establishment of the Israelite
monarchy under Kings David and Solomon.
The enlargement of the role of prayer was coupled with an
expanded view of the purpose of prayer. Prayer was no longer limited
to petitions for aid which tend to arise spontaneously in response to
specific hurtful or potentially hurtful situations. In contrast, daily
prayers were used day in and day out, during good times and bad.
Prayer became a vehicle for a wider variety of spiritual expressions
including praise, thanksgiving and lamentation.
The book of Psalms contains 150 sacred songs, many ascribed to
David. Expressions such as “Give thanks unto the LORD, for He is
Good” (136:1), “Every day I will bless you” (145:2) and “Hallelujah,
Praise ye God” (150:6) indicate that praise and thanksgiving were an
integral part of tabernacle and temple worship. The existence of a
collection of songs indicates some sort of regular use. Yet the Psalter
contains little explicit indication of how or when these sacred songs
were sung. One notable exception is Psalm 92, which reads in part:


Out of Jewish Roots

A Psalm. A Song for the Sabbath Day.
It is good to give thanks to the LORD,
And to sing praises to Your name, O Most High;
To declare Your loving kindness in the morning,
And Your faithfulness every night,
On an instrument of ten strings,
On the lute and on the harp,
With harmonious sounds. (Psalm 92:1-3)
The paradox here is that despite the pledge of daily praise, we find
the superscription associates the psalm with the Sabbath rather than
daily worship. Even though the words of the song refer to daily
praise, we do not know whether there was any kind of a daily worship
service at the tabernacle, or if such existed what the contents of the
service might have been. We know even less about the prayer life of
average Israelites. Did they have daily or special occasion prayers?
Were the psalms known and used by common people in the course of
their everyday lives? We simply do not know. We do know, however,
that if such existed, it was not mandatory or encoded in sacred
literature. Worship during that early period still revolved primarily
around sacrifices.
In his prayer dedicating the Jerusalem Temple, it is significant that
King Solomon refers to the Temple as “a house of prayer” rather than
a house of sacrifice. This phrase broke new ground, helping to create
a new prayer emphasis. He pleaded, “May You hear the supplication
of . . . Your people Israel, when they pray towards this place . . . (also) the
foreigner when he comes and prays toward this Temple . . . ” (1 Kings
8:30, 43). “When anyone sins,” “when Israel is defeated,” “when there
is famine in the land” (1 Kings 8:22:53) the people were directed to
pray towards the new Temple. The presence of God resided in the
Holy of Holies of the Temple as represented by the miraculous
Shekinah Light that resided above the outstretched cherub’s wings
above the Ark of the Covenant. Within the Ark were the Tablets of
Moses containing the Ten Commandments. Thus, Solomon’s Temple
with its Shekinah Light was a suitable magnet for supplication and
petition. However, even in connection with Solomon’s House of
Prayer, we find no descriptions of daily prayer.
Some verses in the Psalms and Prophets seem on first reading to
refer to daily prayer routines. These verses were later used
anachronistically as evidence of the antiquity of the practice.
However, rather than being daily prayer as we now conceive it,
offered every day of the year, good times and bad, these references on
close reading can be seen as describing relatively short periods of
intense prayer during times of trouble. In the Psalms, we find David

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

praying for relief three times a day. “As for me, I will call upon God;
and the LORD shall save me. Evening, and morning, and at noon, will
I pray, and cry aloud; and he shall hear my voice” (55:17). The context
shows that David had been betrayed by an unnamed friend and was
praying for God’s protection against this new enemy (vv, 18;21). Daniel
is also described praying three times a day in response to trouble, a
royal prohibition against worshipping the God of Israel. (Daniel 6:10).
Prayer was still for special occasions, medicine to be administered on
an ‘as needed’ basis.
A significant innovation in the role of prayer was expressed in the
Psalms of David and became even more fully developed in the
writings of Jeremiah. A new intimacy arose, establishing a different
sort of relationship. Previously prayer had been formal and
emotionally distant as implied in the imagery of the supplicant humbly
entering a royal court in order to petition the King. Now, we see
something more than the vertical standing of sovereign versus
subject. David poured out his heart to God in prayer, shared his inner
life and inmost feelings, expressed negative emotions, lamentations,
fears, doubts, as well as joy and exhilaration.
My God, My God, why have you forsaken me? (Psalm 22:1)
O LORD, do not rebuke me in your anger, nor chasten me in
your hot displeasure. Have mercy on my O LORD, for I am
weak. O LORD, heal me for my bones are troubled. (Psalm
6:1-2)
I will praise you O LORD, with my whole heart. I will tell of
your marvelous works. I will be glad and rejoice in You.
(Psalm 9:1-2)
Jeremiah took this intimacy a step further. After the destruction
of Jerusalem and the First Temple, he wrote a series of poems called
Lamentations, describing the dejected state of the Jewish nation. He
poured out his heart in sorrow without making request for relief. His
sole interest was for God to see him and to recognize his pain of
heart. “O LORD, behold my affliction . . . ” (Lamentations 1:9). “See O
LORD, for I am in distress” (1:20). The purpose of these prayers was
neither praise nor petition, but open self-expression. Jeremiah’s
freeness of speech allowed him to go so far as to express
disappointment with God. “You fooled me, O God, so that I was
fooled.” (20:7) For this reason, Wellhausen called Jeremiah, “the
father of true prayer . . . his book contains . . . confessions of personal
troubles and desperate struggles.” (Idelsohn, 15) God was now more
than the Almighty Sovereign Creator of Heaven and Earth. He had
also become “the Friend.”


Out of Jewish Roots

The Babylonian Exile brought new challenges to worshippers of
Yahweh, the God of Israel, They were deprived of their Temple and
the accompanying sacrificial rites. Prayer thus took on greater and
greater importance. Even after the return to Zion and the rebuilding
of the Temple, many Jews remained in Babylon and shortly thereafter
spread even further afield. By the third century BCE, significant
Jewish populations could be found throughout the Hellenized Middle
East. Synagogues, as a center of Jewish spiritual life arose during the
Second Temple period as a practical adaptation to life in the Diaspora.
Travel to the Temple entailed a difficult and expensive journey from
Alexandria, Rome or Babylon. Large numbers did manage to get to
the annual pilgrimage festivals, Passover, Pentecost and Succoth, but
only the most affluent could afford to attend three times each year.
Furthermore, Temple worship took place amidst the congregated
throng and allowed little place for study, discussion of the Holy texts
or private meditation. The synagogue developed as a supplement to
Temple worship, a place for Torah reading and Sabbath prayer.
As a relatively late development, synagogues are not mentioned in
the Hebrew Bible. The earliest appeared during the third century BCE
in lower Egypt and slowly spread around the Mediterranean. (see
Second Temple Synagogues, http://www.pohick.org/sts/) Remains of
early synagogues in Europe have been found in Delos, Greece, and
Ostia, Italy. The spiritual advantages of weekly Sabbath gatherings
for study and prayer invigorated Jewish communities in the Diaspora.
Once these advantages were recognized, synagogues began to appear
in the Holy Land around the first century BCE as witnessed by ruins
discovered at Gamala and Capernaum (Galilee region), Masada, and
eventually reaching even to Jerusalem in the shadow of the Temple
Mount by the mid-first century CE.
The earliest synagogue in Judea has been unearthed at Qumran,
the sectarian Jewish community in the Judean Desert where the Dead
Sea Scrolls were found. This group despised the corrupt Jerusalem
priesthood and separated themselves to a life of isolation in the
desert. They redefined the Temple as their holy community made up
of living stones (Isaiah 54:11) and extended priestly rituals of purity to
all community members. In obedience to the Laws regarding Temple
rites, they bathed several times daily as the priests did, and offered the
sweet fragrances of prayer, the burnt offerings of the lips (Hosea
14:2), twice daily as a substitute for the evening and morning sacrifices
as prescribed in the Torah for the Temple. At Qumran, prayer was not
just for the priests, nor was it limited to festival days or times of
need. Rather prayer was systematized and became daily practice for
the entire community. As far as we know, this is the first instance of
obligatory daily prayer that is now central to Judaism, Christianity,
Islam and the Bahá'í Faith.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

According to the beliefs of the Qumran community, God had
abandoned the Holy of Holies of the Temple and now resided among
them. The estrangement from the Temple cult may have given the
synagogue its initial boost in the Holy Land, but its growth
encompassed both establishment and antiestablishment Jews. A Greek
inscription at the site of the Jerusalem synagogue declared,
“Theodotus, (son) of Vettenus, priest . . . built the synagogue for the
reading of the law and the teaching of the commandments.” Priests
also saw value in the synagogue as a supplement to Temple worship,
primarily as a library to allow public access to the sacred scrolls. It was
a place for reading and studying Torah. But while the Temple stood,
prayer was not yet a focus of synagogue activity.
After the destruction of the Jerusalem Temple by the Romans in
70 CE, Judaism underwent a major transformation. The cessation of
the Temple cult brought an end to the leadership role of the
priesthood within the Jewish community.
As their world began to urbanize, the rabbis offered a bold
new concept of a Judaism which was no longer dependant on
the agricultural environment . . . Rites of sacrifice lost their
raison d'être . . . In the eyes of most Jews, sacrifices could only
be offered at the centralized cultic site in Jerusalem.
Consequently, Titus’ destruction of the Temple meant that
the various daily, weekly and monthly sacrifices as well as the
annual festivals could no longer take place.

(http://www.pohick.org/sts/Intrononotes.html)
First century Rabbis met at the Council of Yavneh to establish the
canon of the Tanakh and establish schools for the study of those
sacred texts. The Talmud grew out of their deliberations. Prayer came
to fill the void left by the end of the sacrificial cult and pilgrimage
festivals. A systematic liturgy emerged with a specific order of prayers
recited at specific times of the day.
Daily Prayer in Judaism
The earliest daily obligatory prayers in Judaism arose after the
destruction of the Second Temple. Jews would hold daily gatherings,
called minyans, in the synagogue up to three times a day. The Talmud
specifies that at the times when the morning and evening sacrifices
had been offered, the portions of the law that govern the sacrifices
should be recited. “your children shall study the law concerning
sacrifices and I (God) will consider it as though they had actually
offered them and I will forgive their sins.” (b. Meg. 31b)
In post-Biblical practice, the Shema is the core expression of
Jewish faith, declaring the Oneness of God. “Sh’ma, Israel, Adonai


Out of Jewish Roots

Elohenu, Adonai Echad” which translated means “Hear O Israel, the
LORD our God, the Lord is One” (Deuteronomy 6:4), the Shema came
to be recited twice a day. Whether there was originally a linkage to
the morning and evening Temple sacrifices is unknown. Repetition of
the Shema is not a Torah Law, but rather a custom that developed
long after Moses. Although, the text itself is found in the Hebrew
Bible, which was the Book of that Age, there are no instructions
within the text stating that the verse should be recited.
Tradition holds that public recitation of the Shema originated in
the days of the Second Temple, no later than the first century CE.
Recitation of the Shema entailed not just the famous verse affirming
the oneness of God (Deuteronomy 6:4) but included related passages
from the Torah as follows: Deuteronomy 6:4-9 which speaks of the
unity and love of God, Deuteronomy 11:13-21 which rehearses the
results of obedience and disobedience to divine Torah and sets out the
necessity of teaching Torah to children, and Numbers 15:37-41 which
reiterates the need for obedience to Torah and sets out ordinances
related to clothing which serve as symbols of God’s covenant with
Israel.
Another ancient prayer found in synagogue liturgy is called the
Amidah. Based on the example of King David, it is a blessing repeated
morning, noon and night (Psalms 55:17-18), three times a day. The
Amidah is a prayer that is recited in a standing position from which its
name is derived. It contains eighteen benedictions and acknowledges
the faith of the forefathers of the Israelite nation. The form of the
Amidah was at first somewhat flexible, with only the text of the first
and last three benedictions definitely fixed. Spontaneous expressions
and petitions were incorporated into the intermediary benedictions.
Later the entire text of the eighteen benedictions was solidified.
English translations of both the Shema and Amidah are found in
Appendix A.
The recitation of these and other prayers was accompanied by the
use of tefillin or phylacteries. Small leather cases containing written
prayers and other holy words were tied onto the head and hands of the
worshipper with long straps. The practice is based on a literal
interpretation of the Biblical injunction:
And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be
upon thy heart . . . And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon
thy hand, and they shall be for frontlets between thine eyes.
(Devarim / Deuteronomy 6:6-8)
Ablutions were also part of Jewish daily prayer customs. According
to the Talmud, Berachot 14b-15a, hands were to be washed before
adorning tefillin or reciting either the Shema or the Amidah prayer.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

It appears that originally these prayers were said privately but over
time the practice developed of congregating morning, noon and night
for services. Each service includes the recitation of the Shema. Only
the evening and morning services include the Amidah. Orthodox
“minyans” or daily prayer services have followed the same basic
pattern with little variation from at least the fourth century CE until
the present.
As synagogue architecture developed in later centuries, that divine
presence was enshrined in an ark at the front of the synagogue
containing the Torah scrolls in remembrance of the Ark of the
Covenant and the Holy Tablets of the Jerusalem Temple. An Eternal
Light, representing the Temple’s Shekinah, was suspended over the
Ark. Evening and morning animal offerings were transformed into
prayers. Priests were no longer needed. A new class of professional
religious leaders arose to take their place. Rabbis were scholars,
learned in the Holy Books. The new emphasis was on recitation and
study of the sacred texts. Although conceived of as only a temporary
substitute for the destroyed temple, the synagogue became the center
of religious life, the place where the presence of God was seen to
reside.
Despite the accommodation to life in the Diaspora, an orientation
to the Holy Land and the site of the destroyed Temple was ever
present. The irreplaceable sanctity of the Holy City was, according to
both the Mishnah and Gemarah, memorialized by the direction one
faced while praying.
If one is standing outside the country, one should direct
one’s heart to the Land of Israel. If one stands in the Land of
Israel, one should direct one’s heart towards Jerusalem. If
one is standing in Jerusalem, one should direct one’s heart
towards the Temple. If one is standing in the Temple, one
should direct one’s heart towards the Holy of Holies.
Consequently, if one is in the East, one should turn his face
toward the West; if in the West, one should turn towards
the East; if in the South, one should turn towards the North;
if in the North, one should turn towards the South. In this
way, all Israel will be directing their hearts towards one place.
(Talmud Berakhot 30a)
The Emerging Christian Liturgy
Christianity was built upon the foundation of Moses and the
Hebrew prophets. The first Christians were Jews who continued to
attend local synagogue services. In some areas, Christians were forced
to separate themselves due to being branded heretics and kicked out
of the synagogue. In other places, Christians and Jews continued to


Out of Jewish Roots

pray together for centuries. There are reports of a fifth century
Byzantine Bishop chastising Christian groups for failing to separate
from the synagogue.
Long periods of joint worship, however, were the exception rather
than the rule. Twenty years after the death of Christ, separate
Christian Churches were well established in many large cities in
Palestine, Asia Minor (now Turkey) and Greece. Yet, except for a few
Apostolic Letters, they had no sacred text of their own on which to
base their prayer services. The formation of the New Testament did
not begin until decades after the death of Christ. Thus, the young
Church was forced to borrow heavily from the text and traditions of
Judaism. During those early years, Christians met in small groups in
private homes, just as Jews did when communities lacked the
resources to have their own synagogue. Congregational worship was
weekly, either on the Sabbath or on the first day of the week. The
structure was open, flexible and participatory. Anyone in attendance
could stand up and spontaneously contribute.
When ye come together (for worship) one brings a psalm,
another a teaching, another a tongue, another a revelation,
another an interpretation. Let all things be done to edify. (1
Corinthians 14:26)
At that early stage, there was no established liturgy, but rather
considerable latitude to shape the service according to the
expectations, talents and needs of each particular Church community.
Church services were modeled after the synagogue and therefore
highlighted reading of the Hebrew Bible, the singing of psalms and
teachings
(sermons).
However,
early
Church
services
were
distinguished from synagogue services by the presence of miraculous
gifts of the spirit such as tongues, revelations and interpretations
thereof. Over time, readings from the Gospels were gradually added
along with the recitation of formalized Christian prayers and creeds.
However, reading from the Old Testament and the singing of Psalms
has ever remained an integral part of Christian worship.
Christian Daily Prayer
One of the most significant innovations of the Christian
Revelation was a progressive view of animal sacrifice. While
acknowledging the divine origin of the Mosaic Law and the sacrificial
rites found in the Torah, they were viewed as part of the old
Covenant that had been replaced by the New. While Judaism kept the
hope of the restoration of the sacrificial cults alive while adapting to
the loss of the Second Temple, Christians viewed the end of the cult
as permanent. There would no longer be any need for the Jerusalem
Temple, altars of burnt offering, or sacrifices of bulls, goats or sheep.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

The death of Christ on the cross was seen as a superior sacrifice with
the power to cleanse humanity once for all time. Temple rites were
reinterpreted; Christ as High Priest offering the value of His Life in a
heavenly, rather than earthly, Temple. (Hebrews 9:24-26)
The loss of sacrifice as a means of approach to the divine left a
vacuum that prayer filled. Prayer replaced the offerings of incense
and the smoke of burnt offerings ascending to God. Christians were
to immerse themselves in prayer and to “pray incessantly” (Romans
12:12).
The Didache, also known as the Teachings of the Twelve Apostles,
is a post-Biblical Christian work generally dated circa 115 CE. In it we
find the earlier known set format for daily Christian prayer. It
instructs believers to recite the Lord’s Prayer three times each day.
Neither pray ye as the hypocrites, but as the Lord hath
commanded in his gospel so pray ye: ‘Our Father in heaven,
hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done
as in heaven so on earth. Give us this day our daily bread.
And forgive us our debt, as we also forgive our debtors. And
lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil: for
thine is the power, and the glory, for ever.’ Thrice a day pray
ye in this fashion. (Didache: 8:2-3)
It is unclear how widespread the thrice daily recitation of the
Lord’s Prayer was among early Christians, since the authenticity of
Didache was not universally accepted. Some Christian communities
claimed it to be genuine Apostolic Instruction originating in the
Jerusalem Council of 50 CE. Clement of Alexandria (second century)
cites it once as Scripture, but no one else among the Church Fathers
makes any reference to it before the time of Eusebius (fourth
century). Eusebius emphatically places it among books that were not
to be included in the New Testament canon. Yet apparently Didache
enjoyed a wide circulation and was accepted by at least a portion of
the Church as a book worthy to be read in Church services.
Athanasius reports that it was still used for catechetical instruction in
the late fourth century. Thus it seems likely that a considerable
number of Christians would have followed its prescription for saying
the Lord’s Prayer three times in a day.
Eucharist and Catholic Mass
Another Christian innovation was communion or the Eucharist.
Christ had transformed the Jewish Passover into a memorial of His
sacrificial death. The bread and wine of the Passover meal became the
sacraments of his Memorial from which, over time, the liturgy


Out of Jewish Roots

Catholic Sacrifice of the Mass developed. For some time the
Eucharistic Service was fluid and variable.
All ceremonial evolves gradually out of certain obvious
actions done at first with no idea of ritual, but simply
because they had to be done for convenience. The bread and
wine were brought to the altar when they were wanted, the
lessons were read from a place where they could best be
heard, hands were washed because they were soiled. Out of
these obvious actions ceremony developed . . .
But we find much more than this essential nucleus in use in
every Church from the first century. The Eucharist was
always celebrated at the end of a service of lessons, psalms,
prayers, and preaching, which
was itself
merely a
continuation of the service of the synagogue. So we have
everywhere this double function; first, a synagogue service
Christianized, in which the holy books were read, psalms
were sung, prayers said by the bishop in the name of all (the
people answering "Amen" in Hebrew, as had their Jewish
forefathers), and homilies, explanations of what had been
read, were made by the bishop or priests, just as they had
been made in the synagogues by the learned men and elders
(e. g., Luke, iv, 16-27). This is what was known afterwards as
the Liturgy of the Catechumens. Then followed the
Eucharist . . .
. . . bread and wine are brought to the celebrant in vessels (a
plate and a cup); he puts them on a table — the altar;
standing before it in the natural attitude of prayer he takes
them in his hands, gives thanks, as our Lord had done, says
again the words of institution, breaks the Bread and gives
the consecrated Bread and Wine to the people in communion
. . . (http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/09306a.html)
The text of the Didache provided instructions on how the
Eucharist was to be celebrated. Parameters are set such as specific
prayers to bless the bread and wine before communion and a specific
prayer to follow it. This latter prayer pleads for the unity of the
Church by creating an interesting interpretive link between the bread
of the last supper and the miracle of the multiplication of loaves.
As this broken bread was scattered upon the mountains and
being gathered together became one, so may Thy Church be
gathered together from the ends of the earth into Thy
kingdom; for Thine is the glory and the power through Jesus
Christ for ever and ever.
(http://earlychristianwritings.com/text/didache-lightfoot.html)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

The Didache speaks to Christians and refers to the Eucharist as “your
sacrifice.” More was involved than a memorial of Christ’s sacrificial
death long past. The offering was brought into the present. The
participants could share in and experience of the vital moment of
salvation.
Here
we
have
one
of
the
earliest
hints
of
Transubstantiation, the doctrine that is the basis for the Catholic
Sacrifice of the Mass.
Among the writings of the Apostolic Fathers, Justin Martyr (c.
101-150 CE) gives further evidence as to the identification of the
Last Supper with a sacrificial offering. “ . . . we have been taught that
the food which is blessed by the prayer of His word, and from which
our blood and flesh by transmutation are nourished, is the flesh and
blood of that Jesus who was made flesh” (First Apology, 1, 62).
Transmutation, or transubstantiation as it was later called, is the
doctrine that the bread and wine of the celebration of the Last Supper
are miraculously changed during the service into the actual flesh and
blood of Christ, thus bringing the sacrifice of the cross into the
spiritual reality of the celebration.
As to when and how often the Eucharist was celebrated, many
scholars link descriptions of Sunday Service liturgy with the
descriptions of the Eucharist in both Didache and Justin Martyr’s
Apology. But a careful reading leaves that link in doubt. Both texts
contain detailed descriptions of weekly services that omit clear
reference to the Eucharist, which is previously described in
considerable detail. That separation seems strange if the Eucharist and
Sunday Service had already been united at the early date. Nevertheless,
sometime during the second century the Eucharist became a weekly
observance. By the third century, Cyprian (c. 200-258) argued that the
Eucharist was to be celebrated daily on the basis of Christ’s prayer,
“Give us this day our daily bread.”
The liturgy of the Mass incorporates the use of various body
positions: kneeling, sitting and standing.
Liturgy of the Hours
The Liturgy of the Hours constitutes a series of prayers that were
used in Catholic monasteries from ancient times. In its late and
complete form, prayer services were held seven times during the day
(Psalms 119:164) and once at midnight (Acts 16:25). Each service bore a
Latin name, several of which corresponded to the Roman custom of
numbering the hours of the day starting from dawn. The schedule
may have looked like this:
Lauds — Dawn
Prime — One hour after dawn or approximately 7 AM


Out of Jewish Roots

Terce — Three hours after dawn, c. 9 AM
Sext — Six hours after dawn, c. Noon
None — Nine hours after dawn, c. 3PM
Vespers — c. 5PM
Compline — 7PM
Matins — Midnight
The monks would sleep in the early evening after Compline, rise at
midnight for the Matins and then return to bed thereafter.
This intricate system of prayer did not spring into existence fully
formed. The Catholic Encyclopedia expresses the view that the
Liturgy of the Hours originally consisted of three daily services, Terce,
Sext and None. The writings of the Ante-Nicean Fathers instruct all
Christians to pray at these hours, but give no indication of whether
private prayer or congregational prayer was intended.
Clement of Alexandria and likewise Tertullian, as early as the
end of the second century, expressly mention the hours of
Terce, Sext, and None, as specially set apart for prayer
(Clement, "Strom.", VII, VII, in P.G., IX, 455-8). Tertullian
says explicitly that we must always pray, and that there is no
time prescribed for prayer; he adds, nevertheless, these
significant words: "As regards the time, there should be no
lax observation of certain hours — I mean of those common
hours which have long marked the divisions of the day, the
third, the sixth, and the ninth, and which we may observe in
Scripture to be more solemn than the rest" ("De Oratione",
xxiii, xxv, in P.L., I, 1191-3). (Catholic Encyclopedia, Electronic
Version, http://www.newadvent.org/cathen/none.html)
In stages, the number of times a day specified for formal prayer
increased. Practicality limited observance to monasteries as working
people could not comply with so rigorous a prayer schedule. By the
end of the fourth century, the hours of Vigils (Matins), Lauds and
Vespers had been added. The full repertoire of eight services was in
place by the end of the fifth century. The selection of these hours was
based on certain times that Peter and other apostles are reported to
have prayed. Rather than obedience to a specific injunction, the
multitude of services is perhaps best understood as an attempt to
institutionalize the apostolic mandate to “pray incessantly.”
Modern Catholic, Orthodox and Protestant
Liturgies
Over the centuries, Church liturgies tended to grow more and
more structured. Nevertheless, tremendous variety can be found from

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

one denomination to the next. Virtually all incorporate the singing of
psalms (or hymns), a sermon (or teaching) and the Eucharist (or Holy
Communion). Many also include recitation of the Lord’s Prayer.
Catholic and Orthodox Services are highly scripted. For example
the Greek Orthodox Service as found in the Divine Liturgy of St. John
Chrysostomos (http://www.ocf.org/OrthodoxPage/liturgy/ liturgy.html)
consists largely of responsive readings coupled with recited creeds and
prayers. Protestant Services vary widely from well developed structure
found in Lutheran and Anglican Churches to the relative spontaneity
of the Baptist and Pentecostal Churches.
Christian Innovations
Judaism began with an orientation to the sacred space of the
tabernacle / temple and only later adopted the scattered locations of
the synagogue as a proxy. Christianity however began with distributed
sacred space, space that was sanctified simply by assembling. “For
where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in
the midst of them.” (Matthew 18:20) The sacred geography of the past
would be abandoned. “The hour cometh, when ye shall neither in this
mountain, nor yet at Jerusalem, worship the Father.” (John 4:21) The
idealized vision of Christian worship found in the Revelation of St.
John portrays a Christian community oriented to a New Jerusalem a
spiritual city built on the foundation of the Twelve Apostles with
Christ as the foundation cornerstone.
And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high
mountain, and shewed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem,
descending out of heaven from God . . . And I saw no temple
therein: for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the
temple of it. And the city had no need of the sun, neither of
the moon, to shine in it: for the glory of God did lighten it,
and the Lamb is the light thereof. And the nations of them
which are saved shall walk in the light of it: and the kings of
the earth do bring their glory and honour into it. (Revelation
21:10, 22-24)
In this vision, Jerusalem retains its Holy status, as it did within
Judaism, but the city was to be Temple-less. God and Christ would
serve the orienting function that the physical Temple had previously
served. Under Byzantine rule, Jerusalem was a center of Christian
Life. Churches were constructed at the sites related to the life and
death of “the LORD” but the Temple Mount was intentionally left in
ruins. The entire City was sacred, but no specific place within the City
was identified with the presence of God.


Out of Jewish Roots

Interestingly both Judaism and early Christianity made the
transition from Temple oriented to congregation oriented worship at
about the same time during the first century C.E. Jews view this
transition as temporary and continued to anticipate the restoration of
the sacrificial cult. In contrast, Christianity was born at the tail end of
the Second Temple period and viewed the destruction of the Temple
as a sign of that a new covenant had replaced the old Law of Moses.
Nevertheless, both groups built upon the rituals of animal sacrifices
and transformed them into symbolic acts. The breaking of bread, the
drinking of wine and most prominently, offerings of incessant prayer
took the place of the former rites.
Christ, like David and Jeremiah, poured out His personal
lamentations to God in prayer at critical times. Prior to His arrest in
the Garden of Gethsemane the Gospels report Christ’s words, “My
soul is deeply grieved even unto death . . . Father let this cup pass from
me.” (Matthew 26:38-39) On the cross, Christ’s lament took up David’s
anguished cry from the Psalm, “God, why have you forsaken me?”
(Matthew 27:46) Perhaps one of the most revolutionary innovations by
some Protestant groups is the rejection of the recitation of written
prayers. Prayers are said in one’s own words. For some denominations,
such as the Church of Christ and Jehovah’s Witnesses, the prohibition
extends even to reciting the Lord’s Prayer. Although this prayer is the
oldest documented portion of the Church liturgy, its repetition is not
mandated in the text of the New Testament. Opponents of ‘rote
prayer’ will point out that in the Gospel text, in the verses just prior
to the Lord’s Prayer, Jesus warns his disciples against repetitive prayer.
When ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do:
for they think that they shall be heard for their much
speaking. Be not ye therefore like unto them: for your Father
knoweth what things ye have need of, before ye ask him.
After this manner therefore pray ye: Our Father which art in
heaven, Hallowed be thy name. (Matthew 6:7-9)
This command has been interpreted as prohibiting the verbatim
repletion of any kind. The result is a wholesale dismissal of liturgy.
Services in these churches tend to enlarge the teaching / sermon
portion of the service.
Within this branch of Protestantism, prayer is seen as a vehicle for
establishing a “personal relationship with God.” Spontaneous,
unscripted prayers uttered in one’s own words, serves to create an
intimate link with the Divine. Nevertheless, distinct prayer patterns
persist even in these ‘anti-rote’ churches. The use of psalms and hymns
(often prayers set to music) is common to virtually all Christian
denominations.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Islam
Daily prayer, referred to in Arabic as al-Salat, is one of the
founding principles of Islam. Mu˙ammad established specific times
of the day and specific regulation for prayer. The Qur’án does not
portray al-Salat as an Islamic innovation but rather traces its origin
back to the Patriarchal Age. Abraham, Isaac, Jacob (21:73), Ishmael
(19:55), Moses (20:14) and Jesus (19:31) are all said to have practiced
regular prayer. Subsequent generations failed to preserve their
heritage and ancient prayer practices needed to be reestablished by
Mu˙ammad.
These are some of the prophets whom God blessed. They
were chosen from among the descendants of Adam, and the
descendants of those whom we carried with Noah, and the
descendants of Abraham and Israel, and from among those
whom we guided and selected. When the revelations of the
Most Gracious are recited to them, they fall prostrate,
weeping. After them, He substituted generations who lost
the contact prayers (Salat) and pursued their lusts . . . (Qur’án
19:58-59)
Current practice is highly structured including specific hours of
prayer five times a day. A series of formalized prayers called a raka’ is
used. The cycle is repeated a specified number of times at each
designated hours. For example, the morning prayers, called Salat-ul-
Fajr, consist of two cycles while the noon prayers, Salat-ul-Zuhr,
consist of four.
Key elements of each cycle proclaim the greatness and oneness as
embodied in the phrases, Alláh’u’Akbar (God is Great) and La ilaha
illalláh (There is no God but God). In contrast to informal prayers,
which can be said at any time of the day or night, al-Salat customs are
specified for the designated hours. There is almost universal
conformity throughout the Muslim world on the following prayer
procedure, although some local variants do exist.
5. Ablutions or ritual washing, prior to prayer.
6. Pray facing the Qiblih at Mecca.
7. Verbatim recitation of specified prayers including portions of
Qur’án,
8. Use of specific prayer postures such as bowing, kneeling and
standing at specific points in the prayer,
9. Performed five times each day at specified hours.
Ritual cleansing is an important part of Islamic prayer practice.
Mosques often contain facilities for ablutions. Parts of the body are


Out of Jewish Roots

washed in a specific order according to a specified procedure. For
example, one is to take water in the palm of the right hand and wash
the face top to bottom, from forehead to chin. This outward physical
preparation is to be accompanied by an inner preparation for the
heart’s connection with the divine. One then faces Mecca and recites
a series of short prayers in praise of God. Each is said from a specified
position: standing, kneeling or bowing.
Qur’ánic Origins of Traditional Prayer Practices
The general belief among Muslims is that all of the prayer
practices associated with al-Salat go back at least to the time of
Mu˙ammad. (Some claim they go back to Abraham.) God is said to
have revealed these details to Mu˙ammad during the Prophet’s night
journey (Isra' and Mi'raj). In fact, while certain features of Salat are
clearly set forth in the Qur’án, such as times of day and the direction
to face, other specifics such as the text of the prayers to be used, the
details of ablutions, the specific positions to go with each part of the
text or the number of cycles (raka’) to say at each hour, are not
recorded in the Qur’án. Rather they derive from secondary sources
(Hadith) and later traditions.
Chapter 4 of the Qur’án is one of its oldest sections. It deals with
a early period in the career of Mu˙ammad, just after the Hegira,
when He resided in Medina. The text shows that even in that period
daily prayer routines had already been established. “Prayer indeed has
been enjoined upon the believers at fixed times.” (4:103) They were
performed publicly and accompanied by prostrations (4:102). In times
of danger or battle, prayers could be shortened (4:101). This exemption
indicates that already in the Medina period, Mu˙ammad’s followers
had formalized daily prayers of specified length, which then could be
shortened under exceptional circumstances.
The five times for Al-Salat are set at dawn, noon, mid-afternoon,
sunset and night (before retiring). Most Islamic authorities recognize
the authority for these five distinct hours of prayer as originating in
the Qur’án:
•
Dawn — “Establish regular prayers . . . the morning prayer”
(17:78); “at the retreat of the stars” (52:49); “before the
rising of the sun” (20:130) “at the two ends of the day [i.e.
morning and evening]” (11:114).
•
Noon — “(Say) Glory be to Alláh . . . when the day begins to
decline.” (30:18)
•
Afternoon (or before sunset) — “Keep up prayer at the ends
of the day [understood as beginning and end of daylight]”
(11:114); “in the late afternoon” (30:18)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

•
Sunset (after sundown) — “Keep up prayer . . . in the first
hours of the night.” (11:114)
•
Night — (before going to bed)- “So (give) glory to God,
when ye reach eventide and when ye rise in the morning.”
(30:17)
Some scholars (mostly non-Islamic) identify only three times of
prayer in these verses, dawn, sunset and nighttime. (See Judaism in
Islam by Abraham Katsh, p. xv) They would understand “when the day
begins to decline” as signifying the hour before sunset rather than
noon and they would understand “in the first hours of the night” as
equivalent to bedtime. Thus the second and third salats would be
collapsed, likewise the fourth and fifth. If true, separation into 5
prayer times would be understood as a later development.
Interestingly, some Muslims also see evidence for three rather than
five daily prayers based upon the text of Qur’án 11:114 which reads,
“And establish regular prayers at the two ends of the day and at the
approaches of the night.”
The two afternoon prayers and the two after sunset prayers,
which are spoken of together, may . . . be said together. (Notes
to Maulana Mu˙ammad Ali’s translation of the Qur’án)
As for the Establishing of our PRAYERS, Alláh has
mentioned
only
THREE
TIMES
in
the
Qur’án.
(http://www.mostmerciful.com/realities-of-our-daily-prayers--
part-three-conclusion.htm [sic; URL correct])
When we compare ancient Jewish and Islamic prayer practice,
some interesting parallels emerge. The Hebrew Bible describes the
prayers of Daniel in terms that resemble al-Salat in several particulars.
We read, “ . . .he went into his house; and his windows being open in
his chamber toward Jerusalem, he kneeled upon his knees three times
a day and prayed, and gave thanks before his God . . .” (Daniel 6:10).
Here Daniel (a) faces the Holy City, (b) assumes a kneeling posture,
(c) prays three times a day.
If the proposals regarding an original three times prayer in Islam is
accurate, it would bring early Islamic practice into closer conformity
with Jewish and Christian practice. Disputes with Jews and Christians,
during and after Mu˙ammad’s lifetime, may well have lead to a
variety of reforms within Islam as the new religion sought to establish
its own independent identity. We know from the Qur’án itself that
the direction of prayer, the Qiblih, had been moved from Jerusalem
to Mecca for precisely this reason.
Striking similarities exist between the Jewish Shema and the
Islamic Shahadah. Both are fundamental confessions of monotheism.


Out of Jewish Roots

The kernel of the Shema is “Hear O Israel, the LORD thy God, the
LORD is one.” The Shahadah similarly asserts, “There is no God but
Alláh. (la ilaha illa ‘lláhu)” The Shahadah also parallels other Biblical
passages such as, “There is no God but the LORD.” (Psalms 18:31)
Both Jewish and Islamic daily prayers invoke the name of God and
offer superlative praise, both acknowledge their respective founders,
Moses and Mu˙ammad, (Compare Tashahhud lines 3-6 with Amidah line
2) and both encourage loyalty to God’s law. (Compare Qira’ah lines 7-9
with portion of Shema form Numbers 15:40) Al-Salat is always said in
Arabic, regardless of the native language of the believer, as Jewish
prayers are always offered in Hebrew.
Animal Sacrifice in Islam
The feast of Eid al-Adha is celebrated on the 10th day of the
month of Dhul Hijja of the lunar Islamic calendar. It is traditionally
marked by the sacrifice of a sheep in remembrance of Alláh’s
intervention in Abraham’s sacrifice of his son Ishmael and the
substitution of a sheep. Celebrants partake of the meat and share it
with the poor. This sacrifice is not a whole burnt offering or an
atonement offering of any kind but rather a thanksgiving and
communion offering.
It is not their meat nor their blood that reaches Alláh: it is
your piety that reaches Him . . . (Qur’án 22: 37)
No one should suppose that meat or blood is acceptable to
the One True God. It was a pagan fancy that Alláh could be
appeased by blood sacrifice. But Alláh does accept the
offering of our hearts . . . (Yusuf Alí Commentary)
The Historical Connection of Mu˙ammad with
Jewish and Christian Communities
Islam came into existence in sixth century Arabia in response to the
idolatry and excesses of the pagan Arabian tribes. Mu˙ammad
intended to reintroduce the pure religion of Abraham, which shared a
rich heritage with its Jewish and Christian offshoots. According to
the Bahá'í understanding, each new revelation is rooted in and
subsequently expands upon the teachings of its predecessors.
Mu˙ammad was neither Jewish nor Christian. He was raised in Mecca
and the presence of Jews or Christians in Mecca is in doubt. Secular
scholars have raised questions about the sources of Mu˙ammad’s
knowledge of them. Nevertheless Mu˙ammad had many opportunities
for contacts with both Abrahamic Religions.
Historians mention some 20 Jewish tribes that lived in Arabia
during Mu˙ammad’s era including two tribes of priests. Those Jews

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

spoke Arabic, were organized into clans like the Arabs, and seem to
have fully assimilated the values and customs of desert society. Yemen
(Southwestern Arabia) was generally considered a Jewish State until
around 523 C.E. and had broad influence on Arabic peoples. Whole
tribes had converted to Judaism. Jewish customs and traditions were
known and practiced by many Arabs. The Qur’án describes three
tribes of Jews living in Medina when Mu˙ammad fled there in 622
CE.
Despite the fact that Arabia was distant from the Talmudic
Centers in Babylon and Palestine, the historical record shows that
trade and cultural contacts were extensive. Mu˙ammed accompanied
His uncle on trading missions to Syria, where He had come into
contact with Christian monks and with Jewish scholars. Later He was
asked to lead a similar expedition Himself on behalf of the wealthy
widow Khadijah. Thus it should come as no surprise that the Prophet
of Islam would have been exposed to Jewish beliefs and practices, not
only the customs of Yemenite and Arabian Jews but the wisdom of
the Talmud as well. In this environment, it is most probable that
Mu˙ammad had direct knowledgeable of Jewish practices and His
revelation accordingly incorporates a considerable number of them
into His religious teachings.
The Qur’án retells various stories of the Old and New Testaments.
There are extensive references to Abraham, Moses, David, Jesus and
Mary among others. Due to the differences between the Torah and
Qur’án in some of the narratives, such as the story of Joseph, some
scholars have concluded that cultural contacts were fuzzy, being
mediated by time and distance. However, others contend that these
differences narrow considerably in light of Talmudic interpretations.
One scholar commented “For, astonishingly enough, the Biblical
narratives are reproduced in the Qur’án in true Aggadic cloak.” (The
Haggada or Aggada is a section of the Talmud that specializes in
interpreting non-legal matters. See Judaism In Islam, by Abraham Katsh,
p. xviii) In other words, the text of the Qur’án does not merely repeat
the stories told in the Hebrew Bible, but retells them in the light of
the most advanced Judaic Studies of the time. If this viewpoint is
correct, it would support the suggestion that Mu˙ammad was familiar
with the best of ancient Jewish scholarship.
Similarly, some of the differences between Qur’ánic accounts and
the Gospels can be explained by alternate traditions within
Christianity. For example, some of the details of the life of Mary
found in the Qur’án, but missing from the canonical Gospels, can be
traced to the Protoevangelium of James. (See http://www.catholic-
forum.com/saints/stj20001.htm)


Out of Jewish Roots

Islamic Innovations within Sufism
Sufism, or Taßawwuf, grew out of early Islamic asceticism. It was a
mystical movement that sought nearness to God through self-denial.
While Sufism may have been influenced by the practices of Christian
hermits as well as the Neo-Platonism of Alexandria, and the
Vedantism of India, it developed into a major movement solidly
rooted within the culture of Islam.
The introduction of the element of love, which changed
asceticism into mysticism, is ascribed to Rabi'ah al-'Adawiyah
(died 801), a woman from Basra who first formulated the
Sufi ideal of a love of God that was disinterested, without
hope
for
paradise
and
without
fear
of
hell.
(http://www.franzholzer.de/htmle/esufi2.htm)
The goal of Sufism was a mystical union with the divine. Sexual
energy became an analogy for a one-on-one relationship with God.
The Song of Songs, a series of love poems found in the Hebrew Bible,
may have provided a precedent, Sufism carried the romantic theme to
a higher level. Rather than to distain the passions of sexual energy as
asceticism did, viewing all passion as an obstacle to union with the
divine, Sufism embraced and transformed that energy into a vehicle
of union. The devotee was to have no interest in any other aspect of
life or any selfish reason for turning to God. The only motivation was
the desire of a lover to be with the Beloved. There were no prayers of
petition, no requests for favors, no rewards in this life or hereafter.
The love of God became an all-consuming passion.
One of Sufism’s chief innovations was the focus on prayer as a
vehicle for entering the divine presence. Through prayer the
worshipper could enter an ecstatic state of nearness to God. Dance
and music were used to enhance the experience. Over time, various
Christian and Jewish groups adapted Sufi thought and practice to
their own devotions. During medieval times, Christian mystic writers
such as Saint John of the Cross and Saint Bernard of Clairvaux
embellished the theme of the love of God with romantic images. A
major theme of the Kabala (dated to around the 11th century) is union
with the Shekinah, the feminine aspect of God. The Hasidic
Movement arose among the Jews of seventeenth century Poland.
Hasidim used music and dance in ways similar to the Sufi dervishes, to
achieve spiritual ecstasy.
Other Possible Parallels
Other possible links between Jewish/Christian practice and Muslim
practice can be mentioned, although establishing their presence in the
time of Mu˙ammad is problematic. Ablutions, prior to prayer, are a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

marked feature of al-Salat. Jews, likewise make use of water for ritual
cleansing. The mikvah is most commonly known as a basin that
women use for monthly purification. In earlier ages, it was also a
customary method of ritual cleansing for men. Priests in the Jerusalem
Temple and Qumran Sect are well known examples. Catholics also use
water for ritual purposes prior to prayer and place basins of holy water
at the entrance to the Church sanctuary for symbolic cleansing. We
do not know what related cleansing rituals may have been used by
either Jewish or Christian worshippers in the East from the time of
Mu˙ammad, but regardless of whether a direct link existed or not, the
principle of purification with water is something shared by all three
traditions.
Similarly, with regard to the issue of prayer postures, we have
already noted that Jews stand, sit and bow their heads for specific
prayers, just as Muslims do for the five-times Salat prayers. Catholics
likewise stand, kneel and sit for various part of the Mass. However,
we do not know when these practices were instituted or what form
they may have taken in 6th century Arabia.
The Catholic rosary is a series of prayers offered daily that begins
with an acknowledgment of monotheism in its Trinitarian form, “In
the name of the Father, Son and Holy Ghost . . .” This may be seen as
a sort of parallel with the opening of al-Salat “In the name of Alláh”
(bismilláh).
Islam claims to represent the True Religion of Abraham. Jews and
Christians derive their belief and practice from the same roots, as
Qur’án freely acknowledges.
We believe in God, and the revelation given to us, and to
Abraham, Ismá'íl, Isaac, Jacob, and the Tribes, and that
given to Moses and Jesus, and that given to (all) prophets
from their Lord: We make no difference between one and
another of them: And we bow to God (in Islám). (Qur’án
2:136)
Recognition of similarities, whether borrowed practices or shared
principles, testifies to a shared history. Progressive revelation serves to
explain the dynamics of the processes of innovation and preservation
of tradition. Daily prayer practices, such as specific hours for prayer,
the direction of prayer, etc. had developed over the centuries as a
common custom within Judaism and Christianity despite the fact that
neither Moses nor Christ had commanded them. In Islam we find the
first codification of laws governing daily prayer. The revelation of
Mu˙ammad confirmed and expanded upon these customary practices.
When viewed in the light, progressive revelation becomes more than
updating previous revelation. It becomes an evaluation of the
innovations that arose during the preceding Dispensation. The


Out of Jewish Roots

adoption of some of those customs in the subsequent revelation
effectively recognizes the value of those initiatives. New spiritual
insights are thus seen to be possible, not only during the formative
age of each faith, but continuously. While the Manifestations of God
(founding prophets) naturally exhibit an extraordinary measure of
new light, others, ordinary people who are not inspired prophets, can
contribute as well.
Bahá'í Obligatory Prayers
The Bahá'í Age is seen as the age of the world’s emerging
maturity. Advancement of the individual is stressed. There is no
priesthood or clergy. Daily prayer becomes personal and focuses, not
on supplication or petition, but upon achieving nearness to God and
cultivating spiritual virtues. Congregational ritual is prohibited.
Bahá’u’lláh revealed three obligatory prayers, short, medium and
long, in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Each of these prayers has its own character
and associated practices. In previous Dispensations, daily prayer
practices such as the prayers to be recited, times of day, positions and
so forth developed by custom rather than coming directly from the
teachings of the founding prophet. In confirmation of the customary
practices of Judaism, Christianity and Islam, Bahá’u’lláh gives specific
instructions with each of the obligatory prayers. The worshipper
selects one of the three to say each day, at her own option.
Another Bahá'í innovation is the movement of daily prayer from
public to private places. The minyan and mass are designed for
congregational prayer in synagogue or church. Al-Salat may be public
or private but is most widely known by the public call to prayer from
the minaret, followed by worshippers dropping whatever they are
doing to prostrate themselves in market, street or home. In contrast,
Bahá'í obligatory prayer is exclusively private. Congregational use of
the three obligatory prayers is prohibited. There are other prayers and
other occasions for praying together with others. The purpose of
obligatory prayer is to enhance a one-on-one relationship between
worshipper and the Divine.
The short prayer is to be said at noon. It is primarily a prayer of
praise. Like the Shema and the prayers of the Salat, it proclaims the
Oneness of God. “There is none other God but Thee, the Help in
Peril, the Self-Subsisting.”
The medium prayer is perhaps the most similar to al-Salat. It
contains petitions (strengthen my hand O My God) as well as praise
(exalted art Thou above my praise) and proclamation of God’s
uniqueness (I bear witness to Thy unity and oneness.) It is to be said

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

three time a day, requires ablutions, and is accompanied by a series of
standing, kneeling and sitting postures.
The writings of Bahá’u’lláh set out specific instruction on
ablutions and positions, thus confirming and extending these Islamic
innovations which were established by custom rather than prophetic
mandate. For example, the instructions accompanying the Medium
Prayer state:
To be recited daily, in the morning, at noon and in the
evening. Whoso wishes to pray (this one of the three
obligatory prayers) let him wash his hands, and while he
washeth, let him say: ‘Strengthen my hand, O my God, that is
may take hold of Thy book . . . ’ Let his stand up, facing the
Qiblih . . . and say . . . Let him then bend down with hands
resting on knees and say . . . (KA)
The long obligatory prayer is said once a day, at any hour.
Although ablutions are not required in the text of the Aqdas, washing
in preparation for prayer is a recommended Bahá'í practice. The long
prayer is also characterized by various postures.
The long prayer lays emphasis on achieving the mystical experience
of entering the presence of God. Incessant prayer, purity of heart,
selflessness and detachment are the vehicles that transform the soul
and open the door to communion with the divine.
. . . make of my prayer a fire that will burn away the veils
which have shut me out from Thy beauty, and a light that
will lead me unto the ocean of Thy Presence.
O Thou in separation from Whom hearts and souls have
melted . . . Thou seest, O my Lord, this stranger hastening to
his most exalted home beneath the canopy of Thy majesty
and within the precincts of Thy mercy . . .
. . . Thy call hath awakened me, and Thy grace hath raised me
up and led me unto Thee. Who, otherwise, am I that I should
dare to stand at the gate of the city of Thy nearness . . . ?
The intimacy and closeness with the Divine that the long obligatory
prayer points to, incorporates the sharing of inner feelings of distress
and anguish that we previously saw in David, Jeremiah and Christ.
Thou dost perceive my tears and the sighs I utter and hearest
my groanings and my wailings and the lamentations of my
heart . . . My trespasses have kept me back from drawing nigh
unto Thee . . . and separation from Thee hath destroyed me.
In the long obligatory prayer and elsewhere in the Bahá'í writings,
many of the names and attributes given to God exhibit more than the


Out of Jewish Roots

formal relationship of sovereign to subject. God is the Desire of the
World, the Beloved of the Nations, the Best Lover and perhaps most
simply and powerfully The Friend.
The desire for and achievability of closeness through prayer
depicted here is markedly different than the relationship established
through animal sacrifices on special occasions at a distant sanctuary.
God is now closer in both time and space, and more encompassing as
well in the array of emotions that the worshipper shares with God.
The desire to draw near to God has been a constant theme of
progressive revelation. In ancient Judaism, communion offerings
attempted to breach the gap between the worshipper and the Divine
by sharing physical food. Procedures for the offerings are set forth in
specific detail in the Torah. The choice, fatty pieces of the sacrificial
animal were offered upon the altar as God’s portion. The people sat
within the sacred precincts of the Temple and ate their portion. In
Christianity, communion took the form of the bread and wine which
stands in the place of blood and flesh in obedience to Christ’s direct
commandment as recorded in the Gospels. Islam adopted communion
sacrifices by custom. But in the Bahá'í Faith, prayer becomes the sole
vehicle of communion. There are no communion meals either by
mandate or custom. To “enter the presence,” to “mourn separation,”
to “hasten home to the precincts of majesty,” to “stand in the Holy
City,” these are the goals of spiritual communion. The ancient
practice of communion had been transformed from physical acts
involving food and blood (either literal or symbolic) to a mystical
encounter through prayer.
Even the term “commune” has come to signify prayer. The result
of achieving a connection to the Divine is “nearness” and “rapture.”
. . . softly recite thou this commune to thy Lord, and say unto
Him: O God, my God! Fill up for me the cup of detachment
from all things . . . break off from me the shackles of this nether
world, draw me with rapture unto Thy supernal realm . . .
(SWAB 174)
Intone, O my servant, the verses of God . . . and the sweetness
of Thy melody will kindle thine own soul. (BP IX)
Whoso reciteth, in the privacy of his own chambers, the
verses revealed by God, the scattering angels of the Almighty
will scatter abroad the words uttered by his mouth and cause
the heart of every righteous man to throb. (BP IX)
As seen in the third quotation above, Bahá'í detachment does not lead
to disengagement from the world. Bahá’u’lláh forbade monasticism.
Detachment represents a freedom to act in the world without
becoming entangled or troubled if things do not go as desired.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Further, the Bahá'í definition of prayer is expanded to include
loving acts in addition to recited words.
This is worship: to serve mankind and to minister to the
needs of the people. Service is prayer. (PT 176)
The concept of action-prayer, as opposed to verbal prayer, may be
the start of a new paradigm. In the past, separation from the world
through living on a hilltop or at a monastery has been a way to focus
oneself completely on spiritual things and to avoid the distractions of
the world. Now, immersion in the spiritual life can be attained while
living and acting in the world. Service to humanity when performed
in a spirit of reverence becomes in itself a form of worship. If the
service is selfless and wholly for the benefit of others, a spiritual state
of detachment can be achieved that is comparable to that of the Sufi
dervish or the Christian hermit. This form of worship may be called
“engaged detachment” as a fusion of mystical and humanitarian
spirituality. This fusion is especially appropriate for the world’s
present Age of Emerging Maturity. The foremost spiritual issue
facing our planet is the need to let go of self-absorption and
recognize the interconnected oneness of humankind.
Conclusion
Progressive revelation provides a framework for understanding the
interdependence of the world’s faiths. It implies the existence of
common threads of tradition and practice along with the emergence
of new themes from age to age. The combined affect of embracing
both old and new yields a continuity of belief and practice on the one
hand, and a gradual unfoldment of innovative teachings on the other.
Chart of Innovations for each Dispensation
Items marked “by written law” were established in the
foundational sacred texts, e.g. Bible, Qur’án. Those marked “by
custom” were established without scriptural mandate. Those marked
“sectarian” were practiced by only a minority of the designated
religion.
Pre-Mosaic
•
End of human sacrifice (by custom)
•
Personal prayer is occasional and petitionary
Jewish
•
End of human sacrifice (by written law)
•
Sanctuary becomes House of Prayer


Out of Jewish Roots

•
Prayer toward Jerusalem (by custom)
•
Synagogue as local house of prayer (by custom)
•
Introduction of daily prayer liturgy (by custom)
•
Three times daily prayer (by custom)
•
Designated body positions used for specific portions of
daily prayer service: sitting and standing (by custom)
•
Ablutions (sectarian)
•
Introduction of praise, thanksgiving and lamentation
prayers
Christian
•
End of animal sacrifice (by written law)
•
Emblematic sacrifice in the form of the Eucharist (by
written law)
•
Church as local house of prayer (by written law)
•
Prayer toward Jerusalem (sectarian and by custom)
•
Daily prayer liturgy (by custom)
•
Three time daily prayer (sectarian and by custom)
•
Designated body positions used for specific portions of
daily service (sectarian and by custom)
•
Prayer forms include thanksgiving, praise and petitions.
Islam
•
Absence of obligatory sacrifice
•
Prayer toward Mecca (by written law)
•
Five (or three) times daily prayer (by written law)
•
Designated body positions used for specific portions of
daily prayers (by custom)
•
Ablutions (by custom)
•
Recitation of specific written prayers (by custom)
•
Introduction of nearness prayers (sectarian by custom)
•
Prayer forms include thanksgiving, praise and petitions.
Bahá'í
•
Prayer toward Bahjí

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

•
Daily obligatory prayers to be recited in private
•
Text of prayers specified by written commandment of the
founding prophet
•
Choice of obligatory prayers
•
Ablutions by written law
•
Designated body positions by written law
•
Forms include thanksgiving, praise, petitions, lamentation
and nearness prayers.
From this study, several insights about the nature of progressive
revelation emerge. First of all, it is apparent that many of the
innovations that are introduced by a given Manifestation of God have
precedents during the Dispensation of the previous Manifestation.
New spiritual laws, in each age, generally adjust or enhance existing
practice.
For example, the practice of praying towards Jerusalem was
inaugurated by Solomon, during the Jewish Age, practiced by Jews
and Christians thereafter, but not formalized into Law until the time
of Mu˙ammad. The direction of prayer (the Qiblih) was later
modified by both Mu˙ammad and Bahá’u’lláh, changing it to Mecca
and Bahjí respectively. It can be seen therefore that one of the
functions of each new revelation is to sort through the innovations of
the previous age and to confirm, ban or modify them. The effect is
thus more comparable to a course correction that striking out in a
totally new direction. We find, for example, the innovation of the
synagogue confirmed by Christian law, and the daily prayer practice
of Judaism and Christianity confirmed by Islamic Law.
New laws are therefore often the first obligatory implementation
of existing practices, rather than brand new innovations. In the
context of Bahá’u’lláh’s explanation that new revelation is tailored to
the needs of the age and limited by the capacity of its recipients, it
makes sense that change would be gradual.
We also find innovations from one age that are ignored or
explicitly rejected in the next, perhaps due to the lack of any divine
sanction in the first place. The Jewish practice of tefillin, the literal
wrapping of the head and hands with the words of the Law, was never
incorporated in a later revelation. Christian customs of celibate clergy
and monastic vows of poverty, were rejected by Mu˙ammad and
banned by Bahá’u’lláh. The time between the appearances of the
Manifestations of God are often marked by both creativity and
sectarian fragmentation of the body of believers. The Prophet, when
He appears, examines the innovations of the previous age, confirming
some, modifying some, prohibiting others. This serves to distinguish


Out of Jewish Roots

innovations that are beneficial to the spiritual lives of adherents from
those that may be harmful, unnecessary or inappropriate to the new
age. New revelations clarify the best path for believers, establish a
single standard to reconcile old sectarian rivalries and thereby reunite
the people.
In the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Bahá’u’lláh taught, “This is the changeless
faith of God, eternal in the past, eternal in the future.” Thus Bahá’ís
would expect to find common threads running through humanity’s
spiritual history.
Ultimately, in the Bahá'í view, human spiritual history is a single
tapestry of interconnected strands.
When seen as a whole the various religions become stages in one
comprehensive divine plan. In poetic language, the New Testament
describes gentile Christians as branches grafted into the root stock of
Judaism. Without Moses and the prophets, Christianity could not
exist. The Bahá’í Writings enlarge this analogy, depicting a universal
vision of humanity’s spiritual development as a single tree with
various branches. All are leaves of one tree.
May fanaticism and religious bigotry be unknown, all
humanity enter the bond of brotherhood, souls consort in
perfect agreement, the nations of earth at last hoist the
banner of truth and the religions of the world enter the
divine temple of oneness, for the foundations of the
heavenly religions are one reality. (FWU 12, emphasis added)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Appendix A
The Shema (extended version)
Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God is one Lord:
And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart,
and with all thy soul, and with all thy might.
And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in
thine heart:
And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and
shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when
thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and
when thou risest up.
And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand, and
they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes.
And thou shalt write them upon the posts of thy house, and
on thy gates.” (Deuteronomy 6:4-9)
And it shall come to pass, if ye shall hearken diligently unto
my commandments which I command you this day, to love
the Lord your God, and to serve him with all your heart and
with all your soul,
That I will give you the rain of your land in his due season,
the first rain and the latter rain, that thou mayest gather in
thy corn, and thy wine, and thine oil.
And I will send grass in thy fields for thy cattle, that thou
mayest eat and be full.
Take heed to yourselves, that your heart be not deceived, and
ye turn aside, and serve other gods, and worship them;
And then the Lord's wrath be kindled against you, and he
shut up the heaven, that there be no rain, and that the land
yield not her fruit; and lest ye perish quickly from off the
good land which the Lord giveth you.
Therefore shall ye lay up these my words in your heart and in
your soul, and bind them for a sign upon your hand, that
they may be as frontlets between your eyes.
And ye shall teach them your children, speaking of them
when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by
the way, when thou liest down, and when thou risest up.
And thou shalt write them upon the door posts of thine
house, and upon thy gates:


Out of Jewish Roots

That your days may be multiplied, and the days of your
children, in the land which the Lord swore unto your fathers
to give them, as the days of heaven upon the earth.
(Deuteronomy 11:13-21)
And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying,
Speak unto the children of Israel, and bid them that they
make them fringes in the borders of their garments
throughout their generations, and that they put upon the
fringe of the borders a ribbon of blue:
And it shall be unto you for a fringe, that ye may look upon
it, and remember all the commandments of the Lord, and do
them; and that ye seek not after your own heart and your
own eyes, after which ye use to go awhoring:
That ye may remember, and do all my commandments, and
be holy unto your God.
I am the Lord your God, which brought you out of the land
of Egypt, to be your God: I am the Lord your God. [Numbers
15:37-41)
Introduction to the Amidah (Standing) Prayer
Blessed art Thou, O Lord our God and God of our fathers,
God of Abraham, God of Isaac, and God of Jacob,
The great, might and revered God, the most high God,
Who bestowest loving-kindness and possessest all things;
Who rememberest the pious deeds of the patriarchs,
And in love will bring a redeemer to their children’s children
for thy name’s sake.
Appendix B
Modern Orthodox Jewish Prayer Services
The Morning Prayers
•
Birchas HaShachar - The morning blessings.
•
Pesukei D'Zimra - Verses of Praise from the Psalms.
•
Shema and it's Blessings - Shema, preceded and followed by
its blessings.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

•
Amidah - The Eighteen Blessings, which are recited quietly
while standing.
•
Tachanun - Nefilas Apayim, 'falling on the face'. This
prayer is said with head bowed.
•
Krias HaTorah - The Reading of the Torah portion.
•
Ashrei — Additional Psalms particularly Psalm 20.
•
Aleinu — Concluding prayer.
The Afternoon Prayers
•
Ashrei - Ashrei is recited.
•
Amidah.
•
Tachanun
•
Aleinu
•
Ne'ilah - The Closing of the Gates
The Evening Prayers
•
Shema and its Blessings
•
Amidah
•
Aleinu
Appendix C
Text and Instructions for al-Salat
According to Islamic Daily Prayer Manual by Farnaz Khoromi, the
words of the daily prayers are composed of the following
components, which are combined and repeated in various ways for
each of the five prayer times.
•
The Intention or Niyyah
•
The Call or Takbir
•
The Recitation or Qira’ah
•
The Bowing or Ruku`
•
The Prostration or Sujud
•
The Praise or Tasbihat
•
The Witnessing or Tashahhud
•
The Greeting or Salam


Out of Jewish Roots

•
The Closure or Khatm
Niyyah: Face the Qiblih (Mecca) and concentrate the heart
for the purpose of witnessing God’s presence.
Takbir: Stand. Hold your hands up, thumbs toward your
ears, palms out. Say:
Alláho-Akbar
God is greater

Qira’ah: Stand and recite the following passages from
Qur’án 1:1-7 and 112:1-5:
1. Besmelláhe rahmane
raheem,
In the Name of God, Most Gracious,
Most Merciful,
2. Alhamdo-le-lahe rabbel
alameen,
Praise be to God, the Cherisher and
Sustainer of the two worlds,
3. Ar-rahmane raheem,
Most Gracious, Most Merciful
4. Maleke yomeddeen,
Master of the Day of Religion
5. Eeyyaka na’bodo
Thee do we worship
6. Va eeyyaka nasta’een
And Thine aid do we seek,
7. Eh’dena serat-al-
mostagheem,
Show us the straight path
8. Seratal-lazeena an’amta
alayhem
The path of those upon whom Thou
hast bestowed Thy Grace,
9. Ghayr-el-maghzoobe
alayhem va la-zaaleen,
Those whose portion is not wrath,
and who go not astray.


1. Besmelláhe rahmane
raheem,
In the Name of God, Most Gracious,
Most Merciful,
2. Ghol-ho valla-ho ahad,
Say: He is the unique and only God,
3. Alláh-ho samad,
Alláh is Omnipresent, (the Eternal,
the Absolute),
4. Lam yaled, va lam yoolad
He begetteth no, Nor is He Begotten,
5. Va lam yakon lahoo
kofavan ahad.
And there is none like unto Him.

Ruku: While standing, lean forward and place hands on
knees and say:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Sobhana rabbee-al-zaeeme
va be hamde,
Pure is my Creator, the greatest and I
praise Him.

Then stand erect and say:
Alláho-Akbar
God is greater

Sujud: (Repeat the following sequence twice.) Prostrate,
placing forehead, palms, knees and toes on floor and say:
Sobhana rabbee-al-zaeeme
va be hamde,
Pure is my Creator, the greatest and I
praise Him.

Then kneel with knees and toes on floor, hands on thighs,
back straight and say:
Alláho-Akbar
God is greater

Tasbihat: Stand and repeat the following sequence three
times:
1. Sobhan-alláhe,
Pure is my God,
2. Val-hamdo-le-lahe,
Praise is for Him,
3. Va la-elaha ella laho,
There is no God but He,
4. Valláho-Akbar.
And Alláh is greater.

Tashahhud: Kneel as before and say:
1. Ashhado an la-elaha-ella
laho,
I bear witness that there is no God
but Alláh,
2. Vahdahhoo la sharika lah,
He is the only one and has no
partner,
3. Va ashhado anna
Mohammadnan abdohoo
And I bear witness that Mu˙ammad
is His servant
4. Va rassoolah,
and His messenger,
5. Alláhomma salle ala
Mohammaden
O God, bestow thy Light upon
Mohammad
6. Va ale Mohammad.
and His descendent.


Out of Jewish Roots

Salam: While still kneeling say:
1. Assalamo alayka ayyoha-
nabeeyyo
Greeting to you, O messenger,
2. Va rahmattolláhe va
barakkato,
and the blessings and abundance of
God to you.
3. Assalamo alayna va ala
ebadelláhe saleheen,
Greetings to us and the righteous
servants of God,
4. Assalamo alaykom va
rahmatolláhe va barakato
Greetings to you all and the blessings
and abundance of God.

Khatm: While still kneeling repeat three times:
Alláho-Akbar
God is greater

BIBLIOGRAPHY
Angha, Molana Shah Maghsoud Sadegh, Al-Salat — The Reality of Prayer
in Islam (Washington, D.C.: M.T.O. Shahmaghsoudi Publishing
Center) 1998
Barks, Coleman and Green, Michael, The Illuminated Prayer (New York:
Ballantine Wellspring) 2000
Catholic Encyclopedia, http://www.newadvent.org/cathen.html
Complete ArtScroll Siddur — A New Translation and Anthologized
Commentary, Rabbi Nosson Scherman (Brooklyn, N.Y.: Mesorah
Publications, Ltd) 1999
Christian Prayers — The Liturgy of the Hours (New York: Catholic Book
Publishing Company) 1976
Heiler, Friedrich, Prayer — A Study in the History and Psychology of
Religion (Oxford: Oxford University Press) 1932
Idelsohn, Abraham Zebi, Jewish Liturgy and Its Development (Toronto:
General Publishing Company) 1995
Katsh, Abraham I., Judaism in Islam — Biblical and Talmudic Backgrounds
of the Koran and its Commentaries (New York: Sepher-Hermon Press,
Inc) 1980
Khoromi, Farnaz, Islamic Daily Prayer Manual
Weiss, Zeev. “The Sepphoris Synagogue Mosaic”, Biblical Archeology
Review, September / October 2000

CHRONICLES OF A BIRTH
Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1854-1876)
by Amín E. Egea
translated by Francisco J. Díaz
On a previous occasion1 we reviewed Spain’s earliest references to
Babism. We saw, for example, how news of the uprising in Zanján
and the Báb’s martyrdom received some national press coverage in
1850. We also demonstrated how the assassination attempt against
the young monarch Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh in August 1852 received the
same amount of coverage in Spain as in other parts of the West. Daily
newspapers also gave extensive coverage to the persecution of Bábís
in Persia as a result of the foiled plot against the monarch, and, even
as late as July 1853, some Spanish dailies continued to offer related
news, a fact which gave us the opportunity to comment briefly on
what might have been the actual extent of such persecutions. Finally,
after considering the readership of each of the daily newspapers
reporting stories about the Bábís, we ventured a guess as to the
potential number of readers that might have learned about the new
religion for the first time.
As we shall now see, additional stories about the infant religion
continued trickling into Spain.
The Enciclopedia Moderna
Between 1851 and 1855, Francisco de Paula Mellado, a prolific
author, was finishing in Madrid what was to become the first truly
comprehensive Spanish encyclopedia of the nineteenth century, the
Enciclopedia Moderna, Diccionario universal de literatura, ciencias,
artes, agricultura, industria y comercio [Modern Encyclopedia /
Unabridged Dictionary of Literature, Science, Art, Agriculture,
Industry, and Commerce]. The work was actually an adapted and
enlarged version of a French encyclopedia bearing the same name and
published by the Firmin Didot brothers several years earlier (1846-
1851). The Spanish version comprised forty volumes in total. Volume
30 was published in 1854 and contained a reproduction of the
definition pertaining to “Persia.” The French version identifies the
author of the article as A. Bouchot, about whom no further
information has yet come to light.


Chronicles of a Birth

The author’s exposition on the history of Persia concludes with the
reign of Mu˙ammad Sháh, to wit:
The son of Feth-Alí, Abbas Mírzá (1831-1833) did nothing
of great account and was succeeded by Mahomed-Mírzá
[sic] (1833-1848). The events surrounding this prince’s reign
are too recent to warrant any further analysis.
Bouchot then immediately describes briefly Persia’s fragile state at the
time, concluding the final paragraph of his article as follows:
Today she thus finds herself gripped by a decadence that
cannot last much longer, inasmuch as the prince now
governing her is incapable of asserting his power; he has
neither revenues nor a navy nor an army to speak of, unless
these are the terms applied to a bunch of unruly soldiers
whom he calls upon at his pleasure and on whom he relies so
infrequently that he chooses to live among his tribesmen, the
only ones he feels safe and secure with. If we add to this the
ruin of her trade and commerce, so vibrant in times past, a
weakened agriculture, excessive taxation, setback after
setback, anarchy, and the subversive doctrines propagated by
the Báb’s disciples, who preach communion of their property
and their women, we cannot but admire how Persia has
resisted for so long such powerful forces of destruction.2
Thus we have here a reference to Babism that could not have been
penned any later than 1851, and which is very likely older.
Bouchot’s statement that the Bábís practiced “communion of their
property and their women” was not gratuitous; rather, his article
merely reflects a fairly typical misunderstanding about Babism during
the movement’s early years.3 The reasons for such an accusation are
varied, Lord Curzon would comment years later:
Certainly no such idea as communism in the European sense,
i.e., a forcible redistribution of property, or as socialism in
the nineteenth century sense, i.e., the defeat of capital by
labour, ever entered the brain of the Bab [sic] or his
disciples. The only communism known to and recommended
by him was that of the New Testament and the early
Christian Church, viz, the sharing of goods in common by
members of the faith, and the exercise of almsgiving, and an
ample charity. The charge of immorality seems to have arisen
partly from the malignant inventions of opponents, partly
from the much greater freedom claimed for women by the
Bab [sic], which in the Oriental mind is scarcely dissociable
from profligacy of conduct . . . . 4

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

1857 — False Rumors
For certain, the assassination attempt against Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh in
1852 did little to dispel this misunderstanding about the Bábí Faith.
As we already saw, Persia’s religious and political authorities took
advantage of the incident not only to rid themselves of as many Bábís
as they could, but also to foster an aura of ill will against their
movement.
In October 1856, Persia annexed the predominantly Shí’a Afghan
province of Herat. This maneuver by Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh helped to
destabilize the region’s fragile balance of power and eventually led to
war with Great Britain. Persia’s defeat was swift, and the impact the
conflict had on the state’s coffers led to nationwide public
disaffection bordering on civil war.
The Spanish and European press alike provided extensive, in-depth
coverage of the conflict. On November 17, 1852, El Estado, a
Madrid daily newspaper, published the following story in an article
about the country’s domestic situation:
Several foreign newspapers have written about a plot against
the life of the shah [sic] perpetrated by an individual
belonging to the Babi [sic] sect. Le Pays categorically denies
this account.5
This denial probably reached Spain by way of the news agency
Havas, which likely was not the one that distributed news of the
alleged attempt against the Sháh, or at least that is what can be
deduced after verifying that Spain’s major daily newspapers that
subscribed to the Havas Bureau did not publish such information.6
It would not be the last time that the Western press wrongly
implicated the Bábís in assassination attempts, whether real or
imagined, against the Sháh of Persia. It happened again in 18697,
18788, and twice again in 18969.
The 1860s
In 1862, an expanded translation of Charles Dreyss’s Cronología
Universal was published in Madrid. Its author, Antonio Ferrer del Río,
based his translation on the second French edition (1858). The entry
for the year 1852 mentions the assassination attempt against the Sháh
and the execution of 400 Bábís. That we are aware of, no mention of
the religion is made again in any Spanish reference works other than
the Enciclopedia Moderna and Cronología Universal until 1876.
In
1865,
two
highly
significant
works
were
published
simultaneously in France that would have a decisive influence on the
West’s understanding of Babism. One was Mírzá Kazem-Beg’s Báb et


Chronicles of a Birth

les Bábís, which, beginning that year, was published in installments in
the Journal Asiatique. The other was Les Religions et les Philosophies
dans l’Asie centrale by Count Joseph A. de Gobineau.
Gobineau’s work achieved much greater popularity. Though not
exempt from historical errors or critical omissions, the book greatly
influenced oriental studies of the period and awakened a certain
sympathy toward the nascent religion in intellectual and public
opinion circles.
Few in Spain came to know Kazem-Beg’s work. Gobineau’s book,
on the other hand, was very favorably received. Most Spanish authors
as well as the mass media that mentioned the Bábí Faith from that
moment on based themselves on Gobineau’s work, mirroring both its
vices and its virtues.
The first publication in Spain taking material directly from
Gobineau in its coverage of the Bábí Faith appeared in 1868, when
the first Spanish translation of Ernst Renan’s Les Apotres [The
Apostles] was published in Barcelona by the printer “La Ilustración.”
It is quite probable that this publication was originally a supplement in
one of the daily newspapers and journals distributed by that publisher,
although no such proof has yet been found to substantiate this
suspicion. One year later, the same work was published by José
Codina, another Barcelona printer.
Juan Valera
One of the nineteenth century’s most outstanding writers and
thinkers was Juan Valera (1824-1905). Holding degrees in philosophy
and jurisprudence, Valera had a long diplomatic and political career.
He worked in several consulates in Europe and South America prior to
his being appointed ambassador in Frankfurt (1865). He would later
serve as ambassador in Lisbon; Washington, D.C.; and Brussels. In
1858, he was elected as a member of the Spanish Parliament, and in
1872 he accepted a senior post within the Ministry of State
Education. Also worthy of mention, from a cultural standpoint, are
his induction in 1861 into Spain’s Royal Academy of the Spanish
Language, and in 1904 into the Royal Academy of Moral and Political
Sciences.
As a writer, he was a prolific novelist and essayist. He was also a
renowned correspondent. Among his most famous novels are Pepita
Jiménez and Juanita la Larga.
In 1868, he submitted his article titled Sobre el concepto que hoy
se forma de España [Perceptions of Spain Today], which was
published simultaneously in the magazines La América and La Revista
de España10. In it, Valera attempted to tackle the issue of Spain’s

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

decadence at the time and how the country was perceived by the rest
of Europe. In the first section of his article he posits his theory about
the fate of civilizations. To Valera, peoples and races do not perish,
but rather alternate between periods of decadence and remarkable
achievement. He perceives the peoples of Aryan descent as best
exemplifying his theory and, after reviewing the cases pertaining to
other nations, has this to say about Persia:
Persia succumbs to Alexander’s rule, but once again becomes
a powerful, formidable, and feared rival of the Roman
Empire under the Sassanid dynasty. In the time of the
Ghazna sultans, during the Middle Ages, Persia’s civilization
shines with extraordinary splendor. Her epic and lyrical
poets, her arts and sciences of the time are superior to those
of the rest of the world7. Later on, her philosophical and
religious schools and sects begin to flourish, as well as the
lyrical, and even dramatic, poetry that comes into being there
in our own age. Recently, the strange historical phenomenon
marked by the appearance and spread of Babism [sic] has
made evident the intellectual and moral vigor of that race,
that perchance it may become regenerated and arise anew to
the heights of its sister European races, when a more fertile
and noble coming into being arrives to awaken and bestir
it.11
Valera was not to be the only Spanish author that would see in the
Bábí Faith a new hope for Persia’s progress. Nor would this be his last
reference to the new religion.
In October / November 1889, he published an article titled La
Religión de la Humanidad [Humanity’s Religion] in La España
Moderna.12 It was in fact a letter addressed to Chilean philosopher
Enrique Lagarrigue (1852-1927). Both authors maintained an
interesting correspondence in which they debated the role and future
of religion. Valera, contrary to Lagarrigue, believed in the vigor and
usefulness of religion. Throughout the development of his argument,
he writes:
I believe that we are living squarely in an age of faith, and
that if losing it signifies progress, then we could scarcely
boast about progress. Even now, in the middle of this
century, in 1847, a new religion has appeared in Persia, one
which has made rivers of blood to flow and given the world
untold martyrs. This religion’s moral core is very pure and
tender-hearted; its sacred writings, highly poetic; its beliefs
and its love in god and of god [sic], profound. Count
Gobineau and Mr. Franck, of the French Institute, have set
out its doctrines and written the history of this recent


Chronicles of a Birth

religion, Babism, whose cardinal dogma is god’s [sic]
incarnation in nineteen persons.
Upon comparing these two excerpts from Valera’s writings against
excerpts about the Bábí Faith from other Spanish authors of the
period, we see that they are highly representative of the approach
taken by Spanish intellectuals in the final decades of the nineteenth
century toward the Bábís.
The Diccionario Universal
Following the publication in 1862 of Charles Dreyss’s Cronología
Universal, we know of no other reference work in Spanish that
mentions the Báb until 1876, the year in which the second volume of
the Diccionario Universal edited by Nicolás María Serrano was
published.
Said volume contained definitions for the entries Bab and Babism
[sic]. All of the information contained in both volumes is clearly
taken from Gobineau’s Religions et Philosophies. The term Bab [sic]
is defined thus:
Bab [sic]: Biog. Celebrated Persian reformer born in 1825 and
killed when he was barely thirty years old; his actual name
was Mirza-Alí-Mohammed [sic]; he belonged to the middle
class and had received a rigorous education; he planted, so to
speak, the seeds of a new doctrine destined perhaps to
transform Islamism; always occupied with pious works, he
had extraordinarily simple habits and a pleasing tender-
heartedness, revealing these gifts through a marvelously
enchanting personality and a kindly and penetrating
eloquence of speech: he was incapable, those that knew him
attested, of uttering anything without shaking the very core
of the hearts of his listeners; his doctrine, which borrows
somewhat from Greek philosophy, is full of flowery phrases
reminiscent of a “Paradise of roses.”
In defining the term Babism, the dictionary provides an article
comprising ten columns divided into two sections — Historia del
Babismo [History of Babism] and Exposición de la Doctrina del
Babismo [Exposition of the Doctrine of Babism] — preceded by a
preamble. In total, the article comprises four pages summarizing point
by point the very topics Gobineau covered in the chapters he devoted
to the Bábí Faith. As can be gleaned from the quote above, the tone
that is used is highly positive. Indeed, it is the very tone that has been
generally employed since then, and well into the twentieth century, by
all dictionaries and encyclopedias containing an entry pertaining to
Babism. Consequently, it replicates those same conceptual and
historical errors committed by Gobineau.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

It is especially interesting to see how the figure of ˇáhirih is dealt
with: “Not for nothing has a woman been one of the staunchest of
apostles, one of the most valiant of martyrs of this new religion; in
Guret-ul-Ayn [sic] (the Eloquent, the Beautiful), the entire female sex
has been liberated, ennobled, glorified; reduced by Islamism to the
condition of mere objects, women in Asia will henceforth be
considered as persons.” And further on: “Her beauty, her spirit, her
eloquence, her knowledge, her singular exaltation is forever engraved
in the memory of those that witnessed this drama.”
In late 1876, Francisco García Ayuso published his Iran o del Indo
al Tigris [Iran or From the Indus to the Tigris], devoting three pages
to the Bábís. Meanwhile, his pupil, diplomat Adolfo Rivadeneyra, was
making his way to Persia. His chronicle of the trip included a lengthy
explanation of the faith taught by the Báb. Several years later, in
1889, Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh visited Europe for his third and final time.
As a result, the Spanish press, as it had done in 1873, made mention
of the Bábís yet again. One important writer, Countess Emilia Pardo
Bazán, was able to meet the Sháh. On account of this encounter, that
same year she would write Un Diocleciano [A Diocletian (alluding to
Roman emperor Gaius Aurelius Valerius Diocletanius, noted for his
persecution of Christians)], a work whose title hints at its stirring
content. We will, on another occasion, deal with this and other
subjects in greater detail when we explore references made to the
Faith from late 1876 until 1895.

NOTES
1 Chronicles of a Birth, Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
in Spain (1850-1853), in Lights of ‘Irfán, Vol. V.
2 Enciclopedia Moderna, Diccionario universal de literatura, ciencias, artes,
agricultura, industria y comercio. Establecimiento Mellado, Madrid,
1854, Vol. XXX, p. 102.
3 This accusation is also reflected in diplomatic correspondence of the
period; see Momen, The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, George Ronald:
Oxford, 1981, pp. 5-8.
4 George N. Curzon, Persia and the Persian Question, Vol. I, Longmans,
Green & Co., 1892, pp. 501-502.
5 El Estado, Madrid, November 17, 1857, p. 1. On November 18, this same
story was published in at least two other Madrid daily newspapers: El
Clamor Público and La Esperanza.
6 The author is aware of two other news stories published that year
mentioning the Bábís. Both appear in the Finnish daily newspaper
Allmänna Tidning. The first one is dated March 13, 1857, and is based
on information from the Indépendant Belgue; the second one is dated


Chronicles of a Birth


April 16 and is based on information from the Journal de
Constantinople.
7 See The Times, London, August 19, 1869, p. 10.
8 See, for example, El Monitor Republicano, Mexico, July 2, 1878.
9 The events of 1896 will be dealt with briefly on another occasion.
Suffice it to say that the “Bábís” were accused of assassinating
Náßiri’d-Dín Sháh on May 2 of that year and of allegedly plotting
against Muzaffar ad-Dín Sháh in June of that same year.
10 La América, Madrid, March 28, 1868, Vol. XII, Issue 6; Revista de
España, Madrid, March 13, 1868, Vol. I, Issue 1.
11 Valera lists Gobineau’s Religions et Philosophies and Adolph Franck’s
Philosophie et Religion in a bibliographical footnote.
12 La España Moderna, Madrid, November 1889, Vol. I, Issue 40. The
article was later published in the book titled Nuevas Cartas
Americanas (Madrid, 1890), which went through several reprintings.

The St. Petersburg 19 th Century
Orientalist Collection of Materials on
the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths
Primary and Other Sources
Y.A. Ioannesyan*
Introduction
The Russian Empire during the 19th century was highly interested
in the current events and political changes which were developing in
Persia, especially those events surrounding the appearance of the Bábí
and Bahá’í Faiths. As we know Persia has always been a strategic
concern of Russia’s geopolitical interests and this traditional
importance, which has been given to Iran has materialized itself in
hundreds if not thousands of documents and writings collected by the
pre-revolutionary Russian government. Among these materials, which
were constantly flowing into the Russian Empire, was information
about and original Writings of these two emerging religions.
Fortunately this information was supplied regularly and systematized
by the Russian diplomats and scholars working in Persia. Among these
Russian diplomats were also trained Orientalists, who could rightly
ascertain their significance. This paper is a brief introduction to the
work and materials collected by these remarkable men.
Prominent Figures
The work of gathering, preserving, identifying, classifying,
studying, translating and publishing the materials on the Bábí and
Bahá’í Faiths was conducted by numerous people but the most
prominent of these were A.G. Tumanski (1861-1920), both a scholar
and a diplomat, and Baron V.R. Rosen (1849-1908), a pure scholar.
Some of the other notable figures were scholars like Professor V.A.
Zhukovski and B. Dorn, and diplomats F.A. Bakulin, M. Bezobrazoff
and M.A. Gamazoff. The latter was the Head of the School of
Oriental Languages of the Asian Department of the Foreign Affairs
Ministry. A substantial contribution to the collection of manuscripts
and especially that of lithographs was made by a prominent scholar,
W. A. Ivanow.

* St. Petersburg Branch of the Institute of Oriental Studies under the
Russian Academy of Sciences, St. Petersburg State University.


St. Petersburg Collection

It would be fair to say that Russian scholars became acquainted
with the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh before they found out about
Bahá’u’lláh Himself.1 Nevertheless, Russian was the first European
language into which the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh were translated.
Among these translations, the first and foremost is Tumanski’s
translation of the Most Holy Book by Bahá’u’lláh (see below).
Rosen (1849-1908) must be given special credit for classifying,
identifying and describing the manuscripts, and establishing the
Russian Geographical Society. He also edited a periodical journal
“Notes of the Oriental Department of the Russian (Royal)
Archeological Society”, known under its abbreviated title ZVORAO
(Zapiski Vostochnogo Otdeleniya Rossiyskogo Arkheologicheskogo
Obshestva), where his and Tumanski’s translations of Bahá’í texts
were published. This journal covered a large range of subjects
including: history, linguistics, religion, and culture.
Tumanski (1861-1920) was a graduate of the School of Oriental
Languages of the Asian Department of the Foreign Affairs Ministry,
where he studied languages under M. A. Gamazoff’s instruction. He
ended his career as a Major-General of the Russian army, but he was
also an orientalist (iranologist and turkologist). He knew Persian,
Arabic and Turkish. Not much is known about his biography, for he
left Russia after the Bolsheviks took over in 1917 and wasn’t
considered by the ruling regime as one deserving notice. What is
known about him is that for a certain period of his life he was in
Ashkabad where he came into close contact with the Bahá’í
community there and ever since was keenly interested in everything
which concerned the Bahá’ís. He died in emigration in the Prince’s
Islands (near Constantinople). After his death his widow moved to
Belgium. His descendents live in that country.2
We know that as early as in 1877, the first part of Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh was delivered to Russia’s General Consul in (Persian)
Azerbayjan by M. Bezobrazoff and addressed to the Library of the
Educational Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs through
M. A. Gamazoff.
Right from the beginning of Rosen’s description of the Tablets he
discerned the special character of the 29 Epistles as well as
distinguished their marked difference from the early Writings of the
Báb. This is not surprising when we consider that among his many
accomplishments, Rosen is credited with the founding of a new
school of Orientalism, which focused on the study of primary sources.
His study of the texts led him to the conclusion that “All the Epistles
should more or less be considered as revelations”3.
As early as 1877, Rosen describes these 29 Tablets (alwá˙), first in
Vol. I. of the Collections Scientifiques  and later in 1908, along with a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

number of other Tablets and Epistles by Bahá’u’lláh, in a copious
volume titled Sbornik poslanii Babída Bahaulláha (A Volume of
Epistles of Bahá’u’lláh, the Bábí). Published by Baron. V/ R. Rosen.
St.-Petersburg, 1908. (see below).
Rosen published a detailed description of the manuscripts, often
illustrated with large abstracts from the original texts in French, in the
Collections Scientifiques de L’Institute des Langues Orientales du
Ministère des Affaires étrangères. Volumes. 1, 3, and 6,4 which was
later to became known as the Collection of the St. Petersburg Branch
of the Institute of Oriental Studies under the Russian Academy of
Sciences. Unfortunately, the materials, which were added to the
collection after Rosen’s death, are not included in this catalogue.
The Origin of the Bábí and Bahá’í Materials Collection
of the St. Petersburg Branch of the Institute of
Oriental Studies, Russian Academy of Sciences
The majority of Bábí and Bahá’í materials collected during the 19th
century ended up in St. Petersburg, the capital of the Russian
Empire5. Eventually, these materials were distributed between the
following three learning centers: The St. Petersburg Branch of the
Institute of Oriental Studies under the Russian Academy of Sciences
(formerly the Asiatic Museum), the National Library (formerly the
Public Library) and the Oriental Faculty of St. Petersburg State
University. The largest of these collections is in the abovementioned
St. Petersburg Branch of the Institute of Oriental Studies, which for
the most part this paper concerns6.
The St. Petersburg 19th Century Orientalist Collection of materials
on the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths consists of manuscripts, lithographs and
published materials. The most significant of these can be divided
between the (1) the Writings of the Báb, the Prophet-Founder of the
Bábí Faith who was Bahá’u’lláh’s Forerunner and (2) the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, the Founder of the Bahá’í Faith.
In this paper I will further distinguish the materials into two broad
groups: primary sources (PS) and secondary sources (SS). PS are
manuscripts or publications of manuscripts of the Writings (with and
without translations), and SS are manuscripts and publications of
other materials like eyewitness accounts and historical documents
about the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths. The materials are organized in the
following manner. First, I list the PS for the Báb, which are
unpublished7, I then treat the PS for Bahá’u’lláh which are also
unpublished. Second, I list the PS for Bahá’u’lláh, which are
published. Third, are writings (PS) of Bahá’u’lláh’s son — Abdu’l-
Bahá. Fourth, are the SS for Bábí and Bahá’í histories.


St. Petersburg Collection

The majority of the manuscripts below, whether in Persian or
Arabic as well as the lithographs belong to the collection of The St.
Petersburg Branch of the Institute of Oriental Studies under the
Russian Academy of Sciences, therefore, unless otherwise indicated,
are to be found in three major catalogues and I have organized my
paper starting with the first, second and third respectively. However,
whenever it is necessary to specify the first two catalogues I will refer
to them by their short titles: The Concise Persian MS Catalogue
(PMS) and The Concise Arabic MS Catalogue (AMS). I also make
reference to some materials listed in the Collections Scientifiques . . .
and A Catalogue of Lithographs in Persian Preserved in the Library of
the Oriental Faculty of the St. Petersburg State University.
Please note that all the manuscripts and lithographs are listed and
briefly described according to their language of origin, either Persian
or Arabic.
The following are the three principle catalogues to the Collection.
The catalogues names are given in Russian, but the catalogue itself is
organized according to the works’ heading, which is in Persian or
Arabic:
•
Persidskie i tadzikskiye rukopisi Instituta Vostokovedeniia
Rossiiskoi Akademii Nauk (A concise catalogue of the
manuscripts in Persian, preserved at the St. Petersburg
Branch of the Institute of Oriental Studies under the
Russian Academy of Sciences, in two volumes), short name
The Concise Persian MS Catalogue (PMS);8
•
Arabskiye rukopisi Instituta Vostokovedeniia Akademii
Nauk SSSR. Kratkii katalog (A concise catalogue of the
manuscripts in Arabic, preserved at the St. Petersburg
Branch of the Institute of Oriental Studies under the
Russian Academy of Sciences, in two volumes), short name:
The Concise Arabic MS Catalogue (AMS);9
•
Katalog litografirovannykh knig na Persidskom iazyke v
sobranii
Leningradskogo
otdeleniia
Instituta
vostokovedeniia AN SSSR (A catalogue of the lithographed
books in Persian preserved in the above Branch of the above
Institute, in two volumes);10
Additional resources
•
Collections Scientifiques de L’Institute des Langues
Orientales du Ministère des Affaires étrangères (A detailed
description of many materials from the St. Petersburg
Collection).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

•
A small number of the materials belonging to other
collections are registered in the specialized catalogues of the
related collections, for example:
•
Katalog litografirovannykh knig na Persidskom iazyke v
sobranii
Vostochnogo
otdela
nauchnoi
biblioteki
Leningradslogo gos. universiteta (A catalogue of lithographs
in Persian preserved in the Library of the Oriental Faculty of
the St. Petersburg State University).11
Review of Materials
We go on now to the review of the materials. The first number in
each listing stands for the sequential number in the related Catalogue,
while the second number in parenthesis is the code under which the
given manuscript or lithograph is registered under.
I. Unpublished lithographs and manuscripts,
described or registered in Catalogues
1) The Writings of the Báb, the Forerunner of Bahá’u’lláh (1819-1850)
a) The Persian Bayán (‘Bayán-i-Farsi’)12 — the major doctrinal
work of the Báb. Written in Persian, it comprises 8000 verses
and is divided into nine sections called Vahids (lit.: ‘units’), of
19 chapters each, except for the last which has ten chapters.
The Institute has 2 manuscripts of the Persian Bayán:
i) #392 (A 458)-PMS. The manuscript is a gift to the
Institute of Oriental Languages by Russia’s General Consul
in Astrabad (Northern Iran) F. A. Bakulin, which was
delivered on 4 April 1877. The manuscript has a
dedication note. It consists of 394 lists and contains 9
Vahids. The name of the copyist and the date are not
mentioned. This manuscript is described by Baron V. R.
Rosen in his Collections Scientifiques, Vol. III: Mss.
Persans, pp. 4-13. The description is followed by a large
extract from the Persian Bayán, containing the whole of
the first Vahid. Baron Rosen also published there a list of
the titles of the remaining eight Vahids of the Book. This
manuscript is also mentioned by B. Dorn: [Mellanges
Asiatiques, Vol. VII, 177];
ii) #393 (#439)-PMS. Another manuscript of the Persian
Bayán, which is also a gift from F. G. Bakulin. This was
received on 5 May 1874, as it follows from the note in the
manuscript. The manuscript though written in a very clear
hand is incomplete. It consists of 98 lists and contains only
7 Vahids, without the name of the copyist and the date.


St. Petersburg Collection

This manuscript is also mentioned by Baron Rosen in his
description: Collections Scientifiques, Vol. III. Mss.
Persans, p. 3.
b) The Commentary on the Surih of Josef (Qayyúmu’l-Asmá’) —
the first chapter of which was revealed in the presence of
Mullá Óusayn (the first to believe in The Báb) on the evening
of 22 May 1844. This event marked the Báb’s open
declaration of His mission. Bahá’u’lláh described the
Qayyúmu’l-Asmá’ as “the first, greatest, and mightiest of all
books” of the Báb. Written in Arabic it consists of 9300
verses and contains 111 chapters. Each of the chapters, except
for the first, has a verse from the Surih of Josef in the Koran
and the Báb’s commentary on it. A whole chapter is titled
“Surih of Josef”.


The Institute has two manuscripts of the Qayyúmu’l-Asmá’.
Both are beautifully performed, written in a clear hand, and in
red ink. Neither of them bears the title. However, their
identification as being manuscripts of the given work of the
Báb is beyond any doubt (see below):
i) #3169 (ca. 1167)-AMS. It has 158 lists. Not only does it
fit into the above description of the content of the
Qayyúmu’l-Asmá’ (for example, it has on f. 7A a chapter,
titled “Surih of Josef”), in addition to that on f. 1b the
work is referred to as: “The Best of Stories” (“Ahsanu’l-
Qisas”), which, according to E. G. Browne, is but another
name for the Qayyúmu’l-Asmá’.13 Apart from the
copyist’s postscript the manuscript contains a few others
which all-together provide a clue to the history of the
manuscript. It follows from the copyist’s postscript that
the manuscript was finished in the month of Shawwal of
1297 A.H. (1880 A. D.). Below this there is a postscript by
another hand saying: “What the copyist left out is that this
noble book was, with God’s help, finished by humble,
poor, rebellious, [yet] hoping for the Mercy of the Lord,
the All-Sufficient, — Mu˙ammad Mahdi ibn Karbalayi
Shah Karam in . . . the month of Jumadiu’l-Ula of 1261 of
Hijra (1845 A.D.). May the Lord forgive the copyist, the
reader and him who will ask God to forgive the copyist”.

As it follows from another postscript (in Russian), the
given manuscript is “a copy made from the original,
preserved in the Library of Prince ‘Alí Quli Mírzá
I‘tizadu’l-Saltanih, son of Fath ‘Alí Shah, [who was]
Minister of Education”. It also says that the manuscript
was “a gift from I. Grigorovitch, presented on 12 August

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

1880 — 17 Ramadan 1297 A. H.” Thus, putting together
all this information contained in the postscripts, it is fair
to conclude that the manuscript dated 1880 was a direct
copy of a much earlier manuscript, written in 1845 (only a
year after the Báb’s proclamation of his mission in 1844!),
made by a copyist named Mu˙ammad Mahdi ibn Karbalayi
Shah Karam.
ii) #3070 (B 1141)-AMS. Another manuscript of the same
Writing, consisting of 252 lists. Unlike the previous MS.
this is described in detail by Baron V. R. Rosen in the first
volume of his Collections . . .14 with the publication of a
number of extracts. As Baron V. R. Rosen points out, the
given MS is without a title, divided into 111 chapters,
each beginning with the words: ‘in the name of God the
Merciful, the Compassionate’ and except for the first
chapter contains a verse from the Koranic Surih of Josef.
These characteristics, after comparing the text with E. G.
Browne’s description of a manuscript of the Commentary
on the Surih of Josef, enabled Bar. Rosen to identify the
work as the famous Qayyúmu’l-Asmá’. In his description
he even traced the Koranic verse of each chapter of the
Qayyúmu’l-Asmá’ back to the Koran15.


The manuscript was a gift from M. Bezobrazoff,
presented on 4 April 1877. It is undated and has no
mention of the copyist.
c) ‘Two Suras from the Koran of the Báb’. #3071 (C1660)
AMS. A manuscript of 52 lists, consisting of 4 texts in Arabic:
ff. 1b-24b, 25a-32a, 32a-50b, 50b-52b. In the Concise Arabic
MS Catalogue is designated as: Two Suras from the Koran of
the Báb. The style of all the four texts is that of divine
revelations, therefore they could only proceed out of the pen
of either the Báb or Bahá’u’lláh.


The first one can with certainty be identified as the Surih-i-
Baqara of the Báb, described by E. G. Browne in the “27 Bábí
Manuscripts” (p. 498). The last text mentions the word/name
“Bahá” (“the light of Bahá” etc) several times, and also the
ghiyas and the mustaghas.


F.1 has a memorial note from V. A. Zhukovski, a date: 1919;
and a number: 82.
d) Untitled and undated manuscript in Arabic consisting of 87
lists. #3073 (A 923) AMS.


It has a postscript in Russian on the last page, from which it is


St. Petersburg Collection

clear that the manuscript was obtained by W. A. Ivanow:16
“Bought in Isfahan 24/11 VII 1910. W. Ivanow”, while a note
on the first page probably indicates the year of its joining the
collection: 1916.


The manuscript is erroneously registered in the Concise
Catalogue of the Arabic manuscripts as the [Kitáb-i-] ˆqán by
Bahá’u’lláh (The Book of Certitude), which indeed it is not.
Nor is its author Bahá’u’lláh. There are many reasons to
consider the text, divided into verses (numbered in red ink) as
being written by the Báb. ‘Zikrulláh’ (‘the remembrance of
God’) — one of the titles of the Báb, is often mentioned in the
text, while believers are either summoned to believe into
‘zikrulláh’ or defined as believers in him. Apart from that one
of the verses says: “Enter ye the house from the side of the
Gate (the Báb) on the great and glorious path”, while another
runs as follows: “We have already ordained unto you in the
Book of Precepts . . . ”. The latter is a well-known Writing of
the Báb, translated into French by M. Compte de Gobineau.

A curious note in Persian, definitely not in the copyist’s hand,
on the inner side of the cover not only dispels the last doubt
concerning Bahá’u’lláh’s not being the author but also
suggests that the text most likely originated before the
declaration by Bahá’u’lláh of His Mission: “May God’s mercy
and the Prophet’s praise be on the guardian of the book
(hajib-i-kitáb) and on its other followers: Azal, Bahá’, ‘Abbas
Affandi and the rest . . . ”
e) The Arabic Bayán (National Library); This could be the “Arabic
Bayán”, known to be a smaller and less weighty work of the
Báb, revealed in the fort of Chihriq, mentioned by E. G.
Brown,17 but definitely not the one translated into French by M.
Compte de Gobineau under the title: “The Book of Precepts”18.
2) The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, Prophet-Founder of the Bahá’í Faith
(1819-1892)
a) The Book of Certitude (Kitáb-i-ˆqán) — A Volume in Persian
revealed by Bahá’u’lláh in Baghdad about two years before
His declaration of His Mission. In it Bahá’u’lláh among other
things proclaims and substantiates some key principles of the
Bahá’í teachings, such as the oneness of God, the progressive
revelation etc, explains the station and mission of the Prophet-
founders of world religions (manifestations of God’s will), the
spiritual meaning of prophecies about the return of Christ, the
coming of the Qa’im, presents the essential qualities of the
‘true seeker’ of religious truth.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

The Book of Certitude is represented in the collection by a
lithograph and 5 manuscripts.

The lithograph was printed in Bombay in 1310 A. H.(1893
A.D.) and is described in the Catalogue of Lithographed
books in Persian in the Collection of the St. Petersburg Branch
of the Oriental Institute (code: PsII 164)19. This is not the
same as the undated lithograph described by Baron V. R.
Rosen in an article and in the Collections . . . 20. However, it fits
fully into Baron V. R. Rosen’s description of the latter as
“being accomplished with utmost care”.21


Another copy of exactly the same lithographical edition
belongs to the Oriental Faculty of the St. Petersburg State
University and accordingly registered in its catalogue (code: π-
25/4).22

The five manuscripts of The Book of Certitude which, with
the exception of one, are all dated, are registered in the
Concise Persian MS Catalogue23 under the following
sequential numbers and codes (after the code we put
respectively the date): #277 (A 183) — 1296 A.H. (1878-1879
A.D.); #278 (A 461) — 1299 A.H (1881-1882 A.D.); #279 (A
1592) — 1305 A.H. (1887-1888 A.D.); #280 (В 1143) —
undated; #281 (ca. 1168) — 1291 A.H. (1874-1875 A.D.),
while B 1143 and A 461 were also described by Baron V. R.
Rosen (the former of the two described in detail, illustrated by
large extracts of the text).24 I made a comparison of the
manuscripts with the lithograph and published the results in a
supplement to my academic translation of The Book of
Certitude into Russian, which came out recently.25 The main
conclusion of my research is the following: though the litho-
graph, on the one hand, and the manuscripts, on the other, do
reflect slightly different versions, the differences are very
insignificant, and even those few instances which cannot be
attributed to the copyist’s error, do not have any effect on the
meaning of the sentence, much less so on the Book as a whole.

The most beautifully and carefully accomplished are
manuscripts A 183 and A 461, made upon a common pattern.
b) ‘Baháyiyih’. #384 (ca. 1168-  ) PMS. This is a volume of 60
lists, registered in the Concise Persian MS Catalogue under the
general title: Baháyiyih. It contains four short Epistles in
Arabic (ff. 1a-2a; 2a-3b; 3b-7a; 7a-13b) and a much longer
one in Persian (ff. 13b-60b). Of this latter the above
Catalogue says that “the treatise deals with and elaborates on
the issues explained in the other Bahá’í work — [the Kitáb-i-


St. Petersburg Collection

]ˆqán. It is composed in the form of an epistle”. All the
epistles are written in Bahá’u’lláh’s style, though only in the
one in Persian, which is written in answer to the question “how
it was possible for the Supreme Letters to be turned into those
who were doomed for the bottom of hell (Sajjin)” does
Bahá’u’lláh mention His name, Óusayn, and refers to the
Bayán of the Báb as “[having been] sent down from the
Heaven of My previous Manifestation” (f. 16a). The
addressee is mentioned by name once — ‘Alí (f. 22b), while
there is also one reference to Jinab Siyyid Jawad (f. 26a).



One of the texts makes mention of “this great prison” (f. 7b).
c) ‘Law˙-i-Bábí’. #3072 (А185) AMS. This one page epistle in
Arabic, is a text with a beautifully decorated ornament frame,
and has an intriguing history. The Epistle is registered in the
Concise Arabic MS Catalogue as “Law˙-i-Bábí”. It is not
described in the Collections Scientifiques, probably because it
was received after Baron V. R. Rosen’s death. It is contained
in an envelope with several explanatory notes (in Russian) on
separate sheets of paper, enclosed together with the
manuscript. The note, written probably by A. G. Tumanski,
says that the Epistle “is undoubtedly of Bábí origin”, “obscure
in language and mystical in nature”, “is composed in rhymed
prose”, “it’s author is definitely Bahá’u’lláh”, “containing,
quite probably, some historical allusions in the end”, “every
second phrase in the Epistle has invariably the refrain: ‘fa
subhana rabbi-l-‘ala’”, which “in one instance only is replaced
by: ‘fa subhana rabbana-l-‘ala”. “From the standpoint of its
language and style it is most similar to the ‘Alwá˙u-l-Salatin’
and to the ‘Suratu-l-Haykal’”. The author of the note cites
certain phrases from this Epistle and the above Tablets to
highlight this similarity.


Another, much shorter explanatory note, written by another
person, tells us a little about the history of this Epistle in
Russia: “Assistant professor Khilinski, uncle of General von . . .
(a German name, unclearly written) brought from Mashhad
(the name of this city is written in Persian) [and] presented as
a gift the letter of . . . himself”. The name preceding the word
“himself” could be read as “Bahá’”. If this assumption is
correct, the writer of this note thought the Epistle to be
written in Bahá’u’lláh’s hand. This impression is confirmed by
the logical emphasis on the word “himself” which wouldn’t be
the case if the words just implied that the Epistle was a work
of Bahá’u’lláh.


Also enclosed into the envelope is a visiting card, which says:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

“Konstantin Vladimirovitch Khilinski”.


The manuscript was supposedly joined to the Institute MS
Collection in the 90’s of the XIXth century.

The Epistle itself, written in tiny letters, left no room for
doubt that it belonged to Bahá’u’lláh. The author of the note,
which I quoted earlier, was absolutely right saying that the
epistle was not to be found among the materials, published by
Baron V. Rosen or E. G. Browne. It turned out to be the
famous Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh: The Tablet of the Holy Mariner
(Law˙-i-Malláh-i-Quds) in Arabic, revealed on 26 March
1863. When I compared the MS in question with the photo of
the manuscript of the same Tablet, preserved in the Bahá’í
World Centre (the photo was printed in M. Sours’ “The Tablet
of the Holy Mariner”, both the manuscripts seemed to me
written by exactly the same hand. Since the MS in Haifa was
written by Abdu’l-Bahá, the MS in St. Petersburg must also
have been written by Abdu’l-Bahá. This is my tentative
conclusion till it is confirmed by the Research Department of
the Bahá’í World Centre. In any case in certain instances its
text is closer to the English translation of the Tablet, made by
Shoghi Effendi, than that of the MS in Haifa.
d) Bahá’í prayers in Arabic. #3077 (A 182). It has 164 lists and
(F. 1a.) contains an explanatory note by Baron V. R. Rosen:
“Brought from Astrabad by L. P. Grigoryev on 1 June [18]92.
Signature: V. Rosen”.

A paper tag is stuck to f. 1a, which says: V. Rosen. ‘A Book of
Prayers’ (This title is in Arabic).
e) ‘Rasa’il-i-Bábíyyih’. #3078 (A 184) AMS. It has 149 lists. A
Volume of Epistles in Arabic and Persian. Some of the texts
are similar to prayers. It is registered in the Concise Arabic MS
Catalogue under the title: Rasa’il-i-Bábíyyih.

The manuscript is incomplete: the end is missing.


An explanatory note by Baron V. R. Rosen, analogous to the
previous MS: “Brought by L. P. Grigoryev from Astrabad in
Sept. 1892.


Bahá’u’lláh’s authorship of the given volume is beyond any
doubt. This is obvious not only from the language and style
but also from a reference in one of the texts to the ‘Law˙-i-
Ra’is’: Bahá’u’lláh reminds the addressee of the prophecy He
made in that Tablet concerning the downfall of the Ottoman
Empire:


St. Petersburg Collection

Look at the kingdom of Rum. For it did not desire war,
however, it was desired by the like of you. Therefore its
flames were fanned and its inflammation rose. The
government and religion grew weak as was witnessed by
every fair-minded observer. Its calamities increased until
its smoke covered the Land of Mystery (Adrianople) and
the surrounding areas, so that what God hath sent down in
the ‘Law˙-i-Ra’is’ may appear. Thus, God’s command in
the Book from God, the All-Protecting, Unchangeable,
was fulfilled.
II. Published manuscripts
1) The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
a) Kitáb-i-Aqdas (“The Most Holy Book”) — the major Bahá’í
Writing, the importance of it for the Bahá’ís is not limited to
just the laws and ordinances set forth in it by Bahá’u’lláh.

In the collection of the Institute there are three
manuscripts of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (The Most Holy Book),
all the three are preserved in an excellent state. None of
them, however, can be identified with the one used by A.
G. Tumanski for the publication and translation into
Russian of the given Book (See below).
i) #3073 (A 460). Consists of 45 lists. Dated 1300 A. H.
(1882-1883 A.D.), as is indicated in the end of the
manuscript. It does not contain the last verse, with the
prohibition of the use of opium (“It hath been
forbidden you to smoke opium”).

The manuscript was described by Bar. V. R. Rosen in
Collections . . .  VI, pp. 144-145, #246.


The last page has a postscript with a dedication: “This is
presented as a gift to his Excellency Matvey
Avelyevitch Gamazoff”. Signed: I. Grigorovitch. On
12 July 1888.


A little below a note from M. A. Gamazoff says:
“Gamazoff has delivered it to the Library of the School
of Oriental Languages on 6 Sept. [18]88”. Signed:
Gamazoff;
ii) #3074 (A 975). Consists of 80 lists. The manuscript has
the text of the Most Holy Book in full (including the
last verse).

There is a postscript in Persian in the end: “Has been

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

collated with special care with the new manuscript on 1
Jamadi 1306 A. H. (1888-1889 A.D.)”.


The last page has a dedication note in Russian: “Is
presented as a gift to the Library of the School of
Oriental Languages by G. D. Batyushkoff in 1906”.


This (the fact of its joining the collection so late)
explains why the given manuscript was not described by
Baron V. R. Rosen.
iii) #3075 (A 497). Consists of 44 lists. Contains the text
of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas in full. The text of The Most
Holy Book is followed by a Bahá’í marital prayer on 2
pages (the latter is registered in the Concise Arabic MS
Catalogue under a separate sequential number: 3082;
the code is the same). The manuscript is undated.

The manuscript bears a stamp: Library of the School of
Oriental Languages of the Foreign Affairs Ministry.

A dedication note says: “Presented as a gift to the
Library of the School of Oriental Languages in 1906”.

The original text of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas with Russian
translation was preceded by a large and very
informative introductory article, dealing among other
things with the history of the Bahá’í religion, published
by A.G. Tumanski in 1899.


For the history of this translation and publication it is
best to quote (in our translation) an extract from A. G.
Tumanski’s above introductory article: “Finally, the
third volume, which included the “Most Holy Book” —
the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, which I present now to the reader,
was lithographed in 1892 (1308 A. H.) in Bombay, and
I received the first copies of it in early November 1893.
This was during the time when I was finishing the
translation of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas from the manuscript,
obtained by me in 1890, consequently, I felt the need
to collate its text with the canonical edition of the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas. The present edition is based on the
latter [canonical] edition, while the differences
between this version and my manuscript are marked:
my manuscript version is designated by the letter P”26.
Thus, as it follows from this account, A. G. Tumanski
first made his translation from his own manuscript,
which he then collated with the official edition of the
text, sent to him in an lithographed form, making the


St. Petersburg Collection

latter the basis for his publication of the original text
and the final version of his Russian translation of the
Most Holy Book. As for A. G. Tumanski’s own
manuscript, which he mentions in the above quote, he
also makes reference to its description by Baron V. R.
Rosen27.
Unfortunately,
that
reference
proved
incorrect. So, his manuscript is not registered in any
Catalogue, and nothing is known about it as well as
about the lithographical edition of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas,
which he used (see also below).

b) Among the scholarly publications of Bahá’í original texts a
prominent place is occupied by a copious volume of the
Tablets and Epistles of Bahá’u’lláh, prepared for publi-
cation from different manuscripts by Baron V. R. Rosen,
whose sudden death interrupted this work and did not
allow him to carry the project through.28 Its publication,
however, was accomplished by Baron V. R. Rosen’s college
— P. Kokovtseff, who supplied the Volume with an intro-
duction, which he humbly titled: “Instead of Introduction”.
In the Introduction he provided us with some important
clues to the history of the Volume and its sources.


Thus, we find out from the Introduction, that the texts,
included into the Volume, were drawn from two
manuscripts. One of them (under the code B1142, see its
description below) attracted Baron V. R. Rosen’s attention
back in 1877, when, making a description of the newly
obtained manuscripts, he for the first time became closely
familiar with the Writings of the Central figures of the
new religion. The above manuscript, presented by M.
Bezobrazoff, consisted of 29 Tablets in Arabic by a writer,
named Huseyn [Huseyn ‘Alí Nuri = Bahá’u’lláh], who was
at the time unknown to Baron V. R. Rosen. One should
bear in mind, that as A. G. Tumanski rightly pointed out,
the knowledge of Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings preceded the
knowledge of Bahá’u’lláh himself in Russian academic
circles (see above). Therefore, it took a great effort on
Baron V. R. Rosen’s part to identify the author of these
Tablets and Epistles. Among the latter there was one (N
20), untitled, as all the others and addressed to the kings,
which was later identified to be the Tablet of Kings or the
Suriy-i-Muluk. Its comparison with another manuscript,
namely that of the Commentary on the Surih of Josef (see
above) by the Báb, enabled Baron V. R. Rosen to make a
provisional but none the less correct conclusion that the
author of the Epistle in question ‘could in no way be the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Báb himself, as long as the preceding manuscript [i.e. the
Commentary on the Surih of Josef] really proceeded out
of the pen of the reformer [i.e. the Báb]’.29 Later the
Library of the Educational Department of Oriental
Languages received a new group of writings (MS code: A
459, old code: 247, see its description below), among
which Baron V. R. Rosen discovered another copy of the
same Tablet N 20 of the earlier manuscript. This time the
text was titled: ‘Suriy-i-Muluk’ (Tablet of Kings). This
wondrous find enabled Baron V. R. Rosen to identify the
author of the Tablet as Bahá’u’lláh, in spite of E. G.
Browne’s opinion, thinking at the time otherwise. Later E.
G. Browne, a prominent scholar of Babism had to agree
with Baron V. R. Rosen’s brilliant arguments30 and even
reproduce them in English in his article.31


This also prompted Baron V. R. Rosen to publish the whole
manuscript with all the 29 Tablets and Epistles by
Bahá’u’lláh in Arabic. The latter occupy the first half of
the Volume (the text of the Tablet of Kings was published
from both the manuscripts, see below), while the second
half of the book presents 34 other Epistles of Bahá’u’lláh,
including the Tablet of Nasir (Law˙-i-Nasir), from Baron
V. R. Rosen’s own manuscript, which makes the total
number of the texts in the Volume — 63. This latter
manuscript, belonging to Baron V. R. Rosen, unfortunately
is not yet found. All we know about it is that it was dated 9
Sha’ban [12]97 A. H. (17 July 1880) and contained 34
Epistles, half of which were in Persian, half in Arabic. The
manuscript was untitled, Bahá’u’lláh’s authorship of the
Epistles was confirmed by the cryptogram 152 at the end
of the manuscript, which equals the numerical value of the
name Bahá’, according to the abjad system. This was also
figured out by Baron V. R. Rosen. P. Kokovtseff, who
accomplished the publication of the Volume, after Baron
V. R. Rosen’s death, points out that the manuscript was
given to him for temporary use, owing to Prof.
Zhukovski’s help. To conclude, thus, before obtaining a
titled copy of the Tablet of Kings, Baron V. R. Rosen by
using convincing arguments, such as the cryptogram 152 =
Bahá’, similarities of passages between the Tablet of Kings
and the Epistle to the Queen of England, from the
Alwá˙u-l-Salatin and etc., already proved that the author
of the Tablet of Kings was Bahá’u’lláh.


Baron V. R. Rosen also published in full some other
Epistles of Bahá’u’lláh (see below).


St. Petersburg Collection

c) Untitled work. #3079 (B 1142) AMS. This is a volume of
29 Epistles of Bahá’u’lláh in Arabic. These form the first
part of Baron V. R. Rosen’s published Volume, previously
referred to.32 The manuscript consists of 72 lists and
includes the Suratu’l Muluk (the beginning on f. 36b).

The manuscript is partial: the last Epistle (#29) is
incomplete.


It has a memorial note on the first page half in Russian
half
in
French:
“Don
de
Mr.
Bezobrazov”
(Mr.
Bezobrazoff’s gift).


The manuscript is described in detail by Baron V. R. Rosen
[Collections Scientifiques, Vol. I, pp. 191-212)], who also
quotes the beginning of each Epistle under the same
number as in the published volume [ibid, pp. 200-212].
d) Untitled manuscript. #3079 (A 459) AMS. This is a
manuscript consisting of 182 lists. Each text in the volume
is preceded by the cryptogram 152 (indicating the name:
Bahá’[u’lláh]) in red ink.


The volume includes the Suratu’l Muluk (its dating in the
Concise Arabic MS Catalogue is wrong), the title of which
appears on the margin in red ink (f. 1b); the Suratu’l-
Haykal, including the Alwá˙u-l-Salatin (ff. 40а-154а); the
Law˙-i-Ra’is (ff. 154а-166а) and some other Epistles,
published by Baron V. R. Rosen in the Collections
Scientifiques, VI, pp. 145-243.


The manuscript is beautiful and written in an excellent
hand. It is preserved in a very good state.


The last page has a note in Russian: “I am granting it as a
gift to his Excellency Matvey Avelyevitch Gamazoff.
[Signature:] Grigorovitch, 12 July 1888”.


Another note below says:


“The Library of the Educational Department, Sept.
[18]88. [Signature:] Gamazoff”.
e) Untitled
manuscript.
#3676
(В
1144)
PMS.
The
manuscript, consisting of 11 lists, contains Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh in Persian: Law˙-i-Maqsud (ff. 1b-9b), and two
Epistles on the occasion of the tragic events in Ashkhabad ,
one addressed to Abdu’l-Karim (ff. 9b-10b), the other — to
‘the friends in [different] lands’ (ff. 10b-11b). The latter
were published in the original and Russian translation by A.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

G.
Tumanski
[A.
G.
Tumanski.
‘Dwa
poslednikh
Bábídskikh otkroveniya’33 in Memoires de l’Academie
imperiale des sciences de St.-Petersbourg, Vol. 6, 1891. St.-
Petersburg, 1892, pp. 317-321]. The texts of the Epistles
were also reproduced in the original by Baron V. R. Rosen
in his description [Collections . . . , VI, pp. 248-250]. The
Law˙-i-Maqsud was not published in full, but was fully
described by Baron V. R. Rosen, who illustrated his
description by large extracts of the text from the
manuscript [Collections . . . , VI, p. 245].


The manuscript is in an excellent state. The Law˙-i-Maqsud
is titled, the Epistles are untitled, for which reason they are
not mentioned in the Catalogues.
f) ‘Alwá˙’ #433 (Ps II163). A lithographical volume of the
Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh: The Tablet of Effulgences (Law˙-i-
Tajalliyát), The Tablet of Splendours (Law˙-i-‘Ishraqát),
The Tablet of Ornaments (Law˙-i-Tarazát), The Tablet of
the Words of Paradise (Law˙-i-Kalimát-i-Firdawsiyyih). It
is registered in the Catalogue of Lithographed books in
Persian in the Collection of the St. Petersburg Branch of
the Oriental Institute as: Alwá˙ — revelations of
Bahá’u’lláh (code: Ps II 163).34 The date and place of its
publication are unknown.


It is highly doubtful that the Volume could serve as an
original source for A. G. Tumanski’s published edition of
the same Tablets as supplements to the Most Holy Book
(see below).
2) Writings of Abdu’l-Bahá35 (all lithographs)
a) The Secret of Divine Civilization. There are two copies of
this lithograph in St. Petersburg: one in the St. Petersburg
Branch of the Institute of Oriental Studies, the other — in
the State University:
i) #434 (Hd II267). Registered in the Catalogue of
Lithographed books in Persian in the Collection of the
St. Petersburg Branch of the Oriental Institute under
its Arabic/Persian title: Asrar al-Ghaybiyya li Asbab al-
Madaniyya.36 Printed in Bombay in 1299 A.H. (1882
A.D.)
ii) #168 (O II 1871). Another copy of the same edition.
Registered in the Catalogue of the lithographs in
Persian in the Library of the Oriental Faculty of the St.


St. Petersburg Collection

Petersburg State University under its Arabic/Persian
title.37
b) A Traveller’s Narrative.38 There are three copies of this
lithograph in St. Petersburg: two in the St. Petersburg
Branch of the Institute of Oriental Studies, the third — in
the State University:
i) #435 (Ps II 172). Registered in the Catalogue of
Lithographed books in Persian in the Collection of the
St. Petersburg Branch of the Oriental Institute under
its Persian title: Maqalih-i-Shaxsi Sayyah ki dar tafsil-i-
qaziyyih-i-Báb nivishtih ast.39 Printed in Bombay in
1308 A. H.(1890 A.D.).
ii) #437 (Pk 637). Another edition of the same writing.
Registered in the Catalogue of Lithographed books in
Persian in the Collection of the St. Petersburg Branch
of the Oriental Institute.40 Printed in 1335 A. H. (1917 AD)
iii) #169 (X II 294, π-23/241 — double coding). Another
copy of the same edition. Registered in the Catalogue
of the lithographs in Persian in the Library of the
Oriental Faculty of the St. Petersburg State University
under its Persian title.42
III. Secondary sources of the history of the Bábí
and the Bahá’í Faiths and for other related issues
1) #3351 (ca. 1885) - PMS “The Book of Astrabad, Mazinadaran,
Gilan, Simnan, Damghan and other [places]”.


Ff. 55a-58b of this manuscript contain an account of the events
related to the Bábí movement in the Mazindaran and neighboring
areas. The account has a distinct anti-Bábí flavor. On ff. 55a,b
one finds what could be a direct quote from famous ˇáhirih
(Qurratu‘-l ‘Ayn).

The manuscript is described by B. Dorn in the Melanges
Asiatiques, Vol. IV, p. 199, N 12.
2) #495 (B 1145) — PMS. The New History (Tarikh-i-Jadid) by
Mírzá Óusayn Hamadani.43 A manuscript of 110 lists. The text is
incomplete: it ends on f. 110b.


The manuscript is described by Baron V. R. Rosen in Collections . . .
VI, p. 244. The work itself is dealt with by A. G. Tumanski in his
article.44

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

3) #441 (Hd II 255). The lithograph is registered in the Catalogue of
Lithographed books in Persian in the Collection of the St.
Petersburg
Branch
of
the
Oriental
Institute
under
its
Arabic/Persian title: Dala’il al-‘Irfan fi Zuhur al-Hujja wa-l-
Tibyan.45 The author is Hajj Mírzá Haydar ‘Alí Isfahani. Printed
in Bombay in 1312-1313 A. H. (1895 A.D.).


This a treatise on the appearance of the Mahdi, who is identified
by the author with the Báb.


The treatise was written in 1310 A. H.(1892-1893 A.D.).
4) #440 (Ps I 98). The lithograph is registered in the Catalogue of
Lithographed books in Persian in the Collection of the St.
Petersburg Branch of the Oriental Institute under its Persian title:
Asas-i-Tarikh-i-Jadid) by Mírzá Óasan b. Mu˙ammad-Taqi
Taliqani.46

The lithograph was supposedly printed in Iran. The place and time
of its publication are not mentioned.


As it follows from the added note on the cover of the book it was
sent by the author to V. A. Zhukovski, through someone named
Shubin, in 1915.
5) This manuscript merits a longer description, it is registered in the
Concise Persian MS Catalogue under the code: B 1146, sequential
number: 383, title: Baháyiyih. It consists of only 5 lists and
contains 5 short texts in Persian:
a) A piece of poetry in honor of his majesty the Russian
emperor. The unknown poet, who composed this poetry,
consisting of 72 verses, expresses his appreciation to the
emperor for the secure life Bahá’ís could lead in Russia;
b) Two poetical pieces, consisting of 19 verses each, by a writer,
whose pseudonym was either Ruhani or Ruha;
c) A piece of a purely religious verse by an unknown poet;
d) A note on the Bahá’í law on heritage and the division of a
Bahá’í year into 19 months;


This has an added note at the end, saying that it was composed
on the request of A.G. Tumanski in 1308 A.H.;
e) A note on the chronology of some important events in the Bábí
and Bahá’í history, with an explanation of the Bahá’í calendar.

It should be noted, that though the explanatory part was
written on the request of A.G. Tumanski by some
knowledgeable Bahá’í, maybe A. F. Gulpaygani, this Risalih


St. Petersburg Collection

shouldn’t be confused with the Risalih-i-Iskandariyyih,
consisting of 35 pages, written by A. F. Gulpaygani for A. G.
Tumanski and mentioned by the latter in the above article.


The manuscript is described in detail by Baron V. R. Rosen in
the Collections . . . , VI, pp. 251-252 (#250).
6) #442 (Pu 174). The lithograph is registered in the Catalogue of
Lithographed books in Persian in the Collection of the St.
Petersburg Branch of the Oriental Institute under its Persian title:
Burhan-i-Lami‘.47 Its author is Abu-l-Fadl Gulpaygani. Written in
1330 A. H.(1911 A.D.) in Syria. Printed in Chicago (Press of
Bahá’í News) with the English translation and a portrait of
Abdu’l-Bahá.


This is a polemic work in answer to the article by protestant
missionary Peter Z. Easton, published in the magazine:
“Evangelical Christendom”.
7) ‘Majmu‘ih’. #3853 (A 716) PMS. A manuscript of 18 lists with
poetry in Persian, registered in the Concise Persian MS Catalogue
under the title: Majmu‘ih. The above catalogue describes it in the
following way: “The volume contains two short masnavis, a
fragment of a masnavi and two qasidas. The first [masnavi] has
182 verses, the second — 212 verses. The manuscript is dated 20
Sha‘ban 1270 A. H. (1853-1854 A.D.]. Probably, this masnavi is
titled ‘Saha’if’”.


This dating is obviously derived from the added note on the last
page (f. 18b), written in a hand different from the poetical text
itself. The note, addressing “God’s people”, calls on them to
peruse and know the worth of “these pages” (saha‘if, varaqat),
for, it says, “the day of the greatest testimony is close (yawm-i-
shahadat-i-akbar nazdik ast)”. It also mentions the day on which
the manuscript was finished: Thursday, the twentieth day of the
month of Sha‘ban, year 127 ?. The last figure seems to be missing
or at least not to be clearly seen. It looks to us highly unlikely that
the year 1270 A.H., corresponding to 1853-1854 A.D. could be
the correct date. The main theme of the poetry in the volume is
bringing glad tidings of and rejoicing at [the revelation] of Bahá,
whose “visible countenance has arisen” and who “has torn asunder
the veils”. These metaphors as well as the subject itself are more
relevant to the time after the declaration by Bahá’u’lláh of his
Mission in 1279 A.H (1863 A.D).

Some
verses
are
preceded
by
introductory
notes
and
admonishments.


Attached to the manuscript is a sheet of paper enclosed in an

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

envelope, with a prayer to be said during the washing of the
hands. The sheet is signed (in Persian): “A scribe . . . of Abdu’l-Bahá
Óusayn”. The word, immediately following ‘scribe’, which could
be an epithet, is unclear.


The year of the manuscript joining the collection is mentioned in
another note: 1917.
8) #443 (Pu 10). This is a lithographical volume of Tablets (Law˙s)
of Bahá’u’lláh, compiled by Siyyid Jalal b. Hazrat Sina. The
volume is without a title. Printed in Tashkent in 1336 A. H.(1918
A.D.) by the “Idarih-i-Vahdat”. Registered in the Catalogue of
Lithographed books in Persian in the Collection of the St.
Petersburg Branch of the Oriental Institute.48
9) #170 (π-23/4).49 The lithograph is registered in the Catalogue of
the lithographs in Persian in the Library of the Oriental Faculty of
the St. Petersburg State University under its Persian title: ‘Akka’-i-
Firgh.50 Printed in 1311 A. H.(1894 A.D.) supposedly in Bombay.

This is a treatise by an anonymous Bahá’í writer concerning Islam
and the contemporary world. Performed in Mishkin-Qalam’s hand.

Unfortunately some of the earlier published manuscripts or those
used for publications in pre-revolutionary Russia have not been
found. This is the case of most manuscripts in A. G. Tumanski’s or
Baron V. R. Rosen’s private possessions. That such manuscripts
did exist we know from the fact of their being published or
mentioned in different publications. Below is a list of these
publications:
a) Bahá’u’lláh’s epistle: Law˙-i-bisharát (The Good Tidings
Epistle), published by Baron V. R. Rosen [Baron V. R. Rosen.
Poslaniye Blagiye Vesti — in Memoires de l’Academie imperiale
des sciences de St.-Petersbourg, Vol. VII. Saint-Petersburg,
1893, pp. 183-192].
b) The manuscript of Bahá’u’lláh’s epistles in Arabic, included by
Baron V. R. Rosen into the published Volume of Epistles. The
manuscript is mentioned in the introduction to the Volume
(see above).
c) A. G. Tumanski’s manuscript of the Most Holy Book (Kitáb-i-
Aqdas), which he used together with the lithographical version
for the publication of the original text and its Russian
translation (see above). The lithograph is not found either.
d)  The Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, published by A. G. Tumanski as
Supplements to the Most Holy Book:
i) The Tablet of ‘Alí (Law˙-i-‘Ali) — Suppl. 1;


St. Petersburg Collection

ii) The Tablet: The Simplest of Essence (Law˙-i-Basitu’l-
Haqiqa) — Suppl. 2;
iii) The Tablet of Splendours (Law˙-i-Ishraqát)51 — Suppl. 3;
iv) The Tablet of Ornaments (Law˙-i-Tarazát) — Suppl. 3;
v) The Tablet of Effulgences (Law˙-i-Tajalliyát)52 — Suppl. 3;
vi) The Tablet of the Words of Paradise (Law˙-i-Kalimat-i-
Firdawsiyyih)53 — Suppl. 3
e) The Will and Testament of Bahá’u’lláh, published by A. G.
Tumanski under the title: Kitáb-i-Ahdí (The Book of My
Testament) [A. G. Tumanski. Posledneye Slovo Baháulli
(Bahá’u’lláh’s Last Word) — in: Memoires de l’Academie
imperiale des sciences de St.-Petersbourg, Vol. VII. Saint-
Petersburg, 1893, pp. 193-203].
f) Certain texts from F. A. Bakulin’s archive, including one
attributed to the Báb. These materials were published by V. A.
Zhukovski in his article: V. A. Zhukovski. Rossiyski
imperatorski konsul F. A. Bakulin v istorii izucheniya Bábízma
(Russian Imperial Consul F. A. Bakulin in the History of the Bábí
Studies) — in: Memoires de l’Academie imperiale des sciences de
St. Petersbourg Vol. XXIV. Petrograd, 1917, pp. 33-90.
g) The Jani History (Tarikh-i-Jani) manuscript, owned by A. G.
Tumanski, with an episode missing in E. G. Browne’s
manuscript of the same work. The episode describes how
Bahá’u’lláh volunteered to take upon Himself the blows
intended for His younger half-brother Mírzá Yahya to save
the latter from flogging when they were both arrested. The
episode with a reference to this manuscript was published by
A. G. Tumanski in his article: A. G. Tumanski. K Voprosu ob
avtorakh istoriyi Bábídov izvestnoy pod imenem Tarikh-i-
Manukchi ili Tarikh-i-Jadid (On the question of the
authorship of the History of the Bábí’s known as Tarikh-i-
Manukchi or Tarikh-i-Jadid — Zapiski . . . , edited by Baron V.
R. Rosen. Vol. VIII. Saint-Petersburg, 1844, pp. 33-45.
Conclusion
The main imperative of Russian pre-Revolutionary scholars, who
observed the advents of both the Bábí and Bahá’í Faiths was to deeply
study and comprehend these new phenomena. The rich collection of
materials, which they brought together were all accumulated during
the decades prior to the Bolshevik take over in 1917. Pre-
Revolutionary scholars should also be recognized for their scientific
approach, which contributed greatly to the value of their research and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

publications and have preserved their significance up to this very day.
Unfortunately, this balanced scientific approach to Religious Studies
was replaced with an extremely political one during Soviet times.
Religion in general was considered “the opium of the people” and it
could only be approached in a highly biased and negative manner, so
the conclusion to be arrived at in the course of a scholarly study was
predetermined from the beginning. These circumstances detracted a
lot from the motivation of scholars interested in the subject, since a
thorough research of any original material on religion lost much of its
significance, while at the same time the publication of primary sources
became useless. Consequently, starting in 1918 these materials were
practically ignored. This doesn’t mean that they were not taken proper
care of. On the contrary, in the all of the learning centers of the
former Soviet Union, manuscripts and lithographs, regardless of their
content, had always been provided with the best conditions possible
for their preservation. In general, the situation regarding scientific
research started to change in the late 80s and early 90s. Now much can
be done in the field of Religious Studies in general and that of Bábí
and Bahá’í studies in particular, so this collection will be of great
importance to contemporary and future scholars.

NOTES
1 Thus, A. G. Tumanski wrote: “Our knowledge of the Writings of
Bahá’u’lah preceded that of himself and his reform” (A. G. Tumanski,
Kitábe Akdes. Svyashenneyshaya kniga sovremennych babidov. (The
Kitáb-i-Aqdas, The Most Holy Book of the present-day Bábi’s. Text,
Translation, Introduction, Supplements), Memoires de l’Academie
imperiale des sciences de St.-Petersbourg, VIII Serie, Vol. 3. (St.-
Petersburg: Royal Academy of sciences, 1899), XXVII-XXVIII).
2 This information was kindly shared with us by O. F. Akimushkin.
3 “toutes les lettres devaient etre considerees plus ou moins comme des
revelations” (M. M. Günzburg, V. Rosen, B. Dorn, K. Patkanov, J.
Tchoubinof. Collections Scientifiques de L’Institute des Langues
Orientales du Ministère des Affaires étrangères, Vol. I (St.-
Petersburg: Imperimerie de l’Academie imperiale des sciences, 1877),
192), see also A. G. Tumanski ibid, XXVII.
4 The full title: Collections Scientifiques de L’Institute des Langues
Orientales du Ministère des Affaires étrangères. Les Manuscrits
Arabes. Décrits par M. M. Günzburg, V. Rosen, B. Dorn, K.
Patkanov, J. Tchoubinof. VI, fasc.2. St.-Petersbourg, 1891. Vol. III.
Les Manuscrits Persans, décrits par Le Baron Victor Rosen. S. Peters-
bourg, 1886, p. 1-51; Vol.VI. Les Manuscrits Arabes, 1891, p. 141-255.
5 Between Peter the Great’s reign in the mid 16th century until the rise of
Soviet communism in the 20th century, when it was transferred back
to Moscow.


St. Petersburg Collection


6 I thank Dr. O. Akimushkin from the St. Petersburg Branch of the
Institute of Oriental Studies for his assistance in my work on these
materials and Dr. S. Zabihi from the Research Department of the UHJ
for his useful critical comments on this article.
7 What we imply by ‘published’ here is not the Writings as such, most of
which as part of Bahá’í Scripture are published now in many
languages, but that the text of a given manuscript or another of the
same Writing was published or used for a scholarly publication of
Bahá’í Texts in pre-Revolutionary Russia.
8 O. F. Akimushkin (et al.), Persidskie i tadzikskiye rukopisi Instituta
Vostokovedeniia Rossiiskoi Akademii
Nauk:
(kratkii
alfavitnyi
katalog)/; pod redaktsiei N. D. Miklukho-Maklaia; korrigenda i
addenda O. F. Akimushkin, 2 vols, 2 ed. (New York: Norman Ross
Publishing Inc., 1998).
9 A. B. Khalidov, ed., Arabskiye rukopisi Instituta Vostokovedeniia
Akademii Nauk SSSR: Kratkii katalog, 2 vols. (Moskow: Nauka, 1986).
10 O. P. Shcheglova . Katalog litografirovannykh knig na Persidskom
iazyke
v
sobranii
Leningradskogo
otdeleniia
Instituta
vostokovedeniia AN SSSR, 2 vols. (Moskow: Nauka, 1975).
11 O. P. Shcheglova. Katalog litografirovannykh knig na Persidskom
iazyke
v
sobranii
Vostochnogo
otdela
nauchnoi
biblioteki
Leningradslogo gos. universiteta. (Moskow: Nauka, 1989).
12 Bayán lit. means ‘explanation, exposition, utterance’.
13 Thus, E. G. Browne writes: “Ahsanu’l-Kisas, another name for the
Báb’s Commentary on the Sura-I-Yusuf, also called Kayyumu’l-
Asma” (E. G. Browne, trans., Táríkh-i-Jadíd: The new History of the
Báb. 2 vols. (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1893), 2:398, (n
5)). See also E. G. Browne. Catalogue and Description of 27 Bábi MSS
in Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland,
11. (London: 1892), 261-268, 699-701;
14 M. M. Günzburg, V. Rosen, B. Dorn, K. Patkanov, J. Tchoubinof,
Collections Scientifiques, 1: 179-191.
15 In chapter 53 (f. 111b) verses 52 and 53 of the given Surih are quoted,
in chapter 54 (f. 113b) — also verse 53, in chapter 81 (f. 176b) — verses
80 и 81, in chapter 103 (f. 229b) — part of verse 103 and in chapter
104 — the end of verse 103 and verse 104.
16 W. A. Ivanow — a prominent Russian scholar, expert on the Persian
Language and dialects as well as on Ismailism, who spent most of his
life in emigration.
17 See E. G. Browne, The Bábís of Persia in Journal of the Royal Asiatic
Society of Great Britain and Ireland, New Series. (London: W.H.
Allen & CO, 1889), 21: 921; E. G. Browne, trans., and ed., A Traveller's
Narrative written to illustrate the Episode of the Báb. 2 vols.
(Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1891), 2: 345-346.
18 See M. compte de Gobineau, Les religions et les philosophies dans l'Asie
centrale, 3e édit., (Paris: 1900); E. G. Browne, ibid, 2: 203.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven


19 See O. P. Shcheglova, Katalog litografirovannykh knig na Persidskom
iazyke v sobranii Leningradskogo otdeleniia Instituta vostoko-
vedeniia, 1: 213.
20 See V. R. Rosen Novii Bábidskiye rukopisi . . . (New Bábi Manuscripts . . .
), #461 in Memoires de l’Academie imperiale des sciences de St.-
Petersbourg, IV. (St.-Petersburg: Royal Academy of Sciences, 1889);
M. M. Günzburg, V. Rosen, B. Dorn, K. Patkanov, J. Tchoubinof,
Collections Scientifiques, 6:144.
21 “d'une execution tres soignée”.
22 See O. P. Shcheglova, Katalog litografirovannykh knig na Persidskom
iazyke
v
sobranii
Vostochnogo
otdela
nauchnoi
biblioteki
Leningradslogo gos. Universiteta, 93.
23 O. P. Shcheglova, Persidskie i tadzikskiye rukopisi Instituta
Vostokovedeniia Rossiiskoi Akademii Nauk,1: 66-67.
24 For the former see M. M. Günzburg, V. Rosen, B. Dorn, K. Patkanov,
J. Tchoubinof, Collections Scientifiques, 3: 32-51, for the latter —
Ibid, 6:143.
25 Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-ˆqán (“The Book of Certitude”): An academic
translation from the original Persian into Russian, with an
introduction, commentaries and a textological supplement by Y. A.
Ioannesyan (St. Petersburg: Peterburgskoye Vostokovedeniye, 2001).
26 A. G. Tumanski, Kitábe Akdes, XXVII-XXVIII.
27 M. M. Günzburg, V. Rosen, B. Dorn, K. Patkanov, J. Tchoubinof,
Collections Scientifiques, 6: 243.
28 See V. R. Rosen, compiler, Sbornik poslanii babida Baháulláha (A
Volume of Epistles of Bahá’u’lláh, the Bábí). (St.-Petersburg: Royal
Academy of Sciences, 1908).
The Volume is available at least in two libraries: the library of the St.
Petersburg Branch of the Institute of Oriental Studies under the
Russian Academy of Sciences and the library of the State University
in Kazan (The Tatarstan Republic of the Russian Federation). We
owe the information about the Volume in the University of Kazan to
F. L. Sharifullina.
29 “cet auteur toutefois ne saurait aucunement etre le Bab lui-meme,
pourvu que le manuscrit precedent provienne reellement de la plume
du reformateur” (M. M. Günzburg, V. Rosen, B. Dorn, K. Patkanov,
J. Tchoubinof, Collections Scientifiques, 1: 191).
30 See ibid, 6:145-149.
31 See E. G. Browne, Some Remarks on the Bábí Textes edited by Baron
Victor Rosen in Vols. I and VI of the Collections Scientifiques de
l’Institut des Langues Orientales de Saint-Pétersbourg in Journal of
the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland. (London:
published by the Society, 1892), 269, 273 (footnote).
32 See V. R. Rosen, Sbornik poslanii babida Baháulláha, 1-82.
33 The title is translated as “Two Recent Bábi Revelations”.

St. Petersburg Collection


34 See O. P. Shcheglova, Katalog litografirovannykh knig na Persidskom
iazyke v sobranii Leningradskogo otdeleniia Instituta vostoko-
vedeniia, 1: 213.
35 Abdu’l-Bahá, outside the Bahá’í community also known as Abbas
Effendi (1844-1921) — Bahá’u’lláh’s eldest son. In the Kitáb-i-Ahdí
(Book of the Covenent) Bahá’u’lláh named Abdu’l-Bahá as his
successor and the authorized Interpreter of his Writings.
36 See O. P. Shcheglova , ibid, 1: 213-214.
37 See O. P. Shcheglova, Katalog litografirovannykh knig na Persidskom
iazyke
v
sobranii
Vostochnogo
otdela
nauchnoi
biblioteki
Leningradslogo gos. Universiteta, 93.
38 See E. G. Browne, trans., and ed., A Traveller's Narrative written to
illustrate the Episode of the Báb, 2 vols.
39 See O. P. Shcheglova, Katalog litografirovannykh knig na Persidskom
iazyke v sobranii Leningradskogo otdeleniia Instituta vostoko-
vedeniia, 1: 214.
40 See O. P. Shcheglova, ibid.
41 The first letter of the second code is Cyrillic.
42 See O. P. Shcheglova, Katalog litografirovannykh knig na Persidskom
iazyke
v
sobranii
Vostochnogo
otdela
nauchnoi
biblioteki
Leningradslogo gos. Universiteta, 93.
43 See E. G. Browne, trans., Táríkh-i-Jadíd: The new History of the Báb. 2
vols. (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1893).
44 A. G. Tumanski. K Voprosu ob avtorakh istoriyi babidov izvestnoy
pod imenem Tarikh-i-Manukchi ili Tarikh-i-Jadid (On the question of
the authorship of the History of the Bábi’s known as Tarikh-i-
Manukchi or Tarikh-i-Jadid — in Memoires de l’Academie imperiale
des sciences de St.-Petersbourg, ed. Baron V. R. Rosen, 8: 33-45.
45 See O. P. Shcheglova, Katalog litografirovannykh knig na Persidskom
iazyke v sobranii Leningradskogo otdeleniia Instituta vostoko-
vedeniia, 1: 216.
46 See O. P. Shcheglova, ibid, 1: 215.
47 See O. P. Shcheglova, ibid, 1: 216.
48 See O. P. Shcheglova, ibid, 1: 216.
49 The letter of the code is in Cyrillic.
50 See O. P. Shcheglova. Katalog litografirovannykh knig na Persidskom
iazyke
v
sobranii
Vostochnogo
otdela
nauchnoi
biblioteki
Leningradslogo gos. Universiteta, 94.
51 This Tablet was addressed to Jalil-i-Khu’I (W. Momen. A Basic Bahá’í
Dictionary (Oxford: George Ronald, 1989), 122.
52 This Tablet was revealed in honor of Ustad ‘Alí-Akbar, a martyr of
Yazd (W. Momen, ibid, 221).
53 This Tablet was revealed by Bahá’u’lláh in honor of Haji Mírzá
Haydar-‘Alí (W. Momen, ibid, 126).

Origins of the Bahá’í Concept of
Unity and Causality
A Brief Survey of Greek, Neoplatonic, and
Islamic Underpinnings
B.R. Khadem
Introduction and Overview
Though the Bahá’í writings are explicit and, in important regards,
unique in their exposition of the concept of unity, the Bahá’í
conception is not without significant historical and intellectual
precedent. This essay attempts to highlight several of the more
prominent of these underpinnings by considering, however
summarily, the history of the concept of unity (and its inseparable
counterpart: the concept of causality) as it developed in ancient
Greek thought, Neoplatonism, and, subsequently, in Islamic
philosophy and mysticism.
In particular, the following points are discussed: (1) the Greek
account of the eternity of being and of God as the Sun of Reality;
(2) the Neoplatonic account of creation by way of emanation; (3) the
accounts of various Muslim thinkers (particularly Fárábí, al-Ghazálí,
Suhrawardí, and Ibn `Arabí) joining the concepts of creation and
revelation and introducing an account of the unity of being by way
of the names and attributes of God; (4) the anomaly of Ibn Rushd in
the post-Ghazálí Islamic world, his resurrection of Aristotelianism,
and his significant impacted upon Europe; (5) the Bahá’í concept of
unity, its inheritance and systematization of the insights of its
intellectual predecessors (particularly that of Ibn `Arabí), its
distinction in establishing the Manifestation of God, rather than
God, per se, as the ground of the unity of being, and its implications
in light of the Bahá’í assertion that the Supreme Manifestation has
appeared.
It should be noted that, in relying upon several primary Greek
sources, the Qur’an, and secondary sources on Islamic philosophy,1
this paper seeks to provide an introductory and cursory overview of
the respective treatments of this problematic, as a prelude to further
study. As such, it makes no attempt to undertake a thorough, let
alone detailed, review of Islamic philosophy, nor does it attempt to
detail the social history of the flow of ideas through the three contexts.

Unity and Causality

Background: the Basic Problem of Being
Before considering the question of unity, and the multiple
historical accounts thereof, brief consideration should be given to
the even more fundamental problem of “being.” One of the earliest
and most historically influential formulations of this problematic
can be found in the writings of the Ancient Greeks, consisting,
essentially, of the following debate: although Parmenides and Plato
argued that only universals are, Aristotle disagreed, arguing that only
particulars (ultimate subjects) are. Though this debate remained
largely unresolved in the Islamic world, certain thinkers — such as
Ibn Sina and Suhrawardí — provided a resolution through the
merging of the two elements: the doctrine of the particularity of
essences (i.e. doctrine of the individual soul).
Parmenides and Plato: Being is Universal
Of the Greek thinkers, one of the earliest extant accounts of
being is that of Parmenides (d. 515 BC). The essential problematic
he dealt with was the following: amidst this world of things that are
constantly changing (e.g. birth, growth, death), on what ground can
one assert that anything is? In other words, how can identity (the
endurance of being) be predicated on something that is never the
same from moment to moment? Parmenides made a decisive
distinction: That which “becomes and perishes,” which “alters its
place” and “changes its shining,” is the “illusion (Greek: doxa) of
mortals, in which there is no true belief.”2 In contrast, the way of
truth (Greek: alethea) is the way of the totality-of-being (Greek:
estin) which is:
not-generated, imperishable, whole, sole-of-its-kind . . . is
now at once all one . . . And never will the force of belief say
that from being something became besides it . . . For if it
became, it is not, nor is it if some time it will be. Thus
generation is extinguished and destruction is not-to-be-
heard. Nor is it divisible . . . it rests in itself.3
His students, the Eleatics, radicalized this teaching in such a way as
to lay the ground for a reaction by Plato. While agreeing with
Parmenides that there is only doxa with respect to that-which-
changes, they further asserted that such things (are)4 non-beings.
Only eternals (the sun, the gods, etc) are.
At first, Plato’s (d. 347 BC) account of being, in Book VI of
Politea, seems to confirm the Eleatic orthodoxy of the non-being of
the particular. Inquiring into the essence of rightness (Greek: dikae),
he agrees that particular things — “the many” — are constantly
changing and (are) therefore not beings proper. However, he departs

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

from the Eleatics in his declaration of what is being. Though “the
many” are not beings, “according to one idéa of each as one being,
we proclaim ‘what is’ each.”5 Thus, being proper pertains to the
single, universal, and unchanging idéa (i.e. “looks,” “forms,” or, as
called in later philosophy, “archetypes”) that unify the many
particulars. For instance, though the particular trees in a given grove
are not beings, they are illusory copies of the one true tree — which
is an idéa.
Aristotle: Being is Particular
Aristotle (d. 322 BC) objects. He explains that “[b]eingness, as
said in the most decisive and first and foremost sense, is what
neither is said about anything underlying, nor is in anything
underlying.”6 Restated positively, being is said of ultimate subjects
and not of predicates.
This effectively turns Plato’s conception of being on its head.
Only particular things, “the many,” the “each,” are ultimate sub-
jects.7 Conversely, “that which prevails on the whole” (precisely the
universal idéa) are always predicated on particulars.8 Thus, being lies
in the particular thing, of which the idéa is a predicate or attribute.
Aristotle, however, does not discount the being of the idéa
entirely. He explains that the distinctive and essential attribute of
each particular being is its idéa. It is only through perceiving “the
prior” (the being’s idéa) that the “posterior” (the particular being)
can be truly understood. Without perception of the prior, “what is
perceptible and first to each is often only slightly perceptible, and
has hold of little or nothing of what is.” He employs an example:
because the point is the idéa of (is prior to) the line or surface, true
knowledge of a surface amounts to the understanding that it is a
collection of points.9
Islamic Thinkers: Bridge of Universal and Particular
At the heart of this difference between Plato and Aristotle is a dis-
agreement as to the most fundamental criteria of being: constancy
vs. uniqueness. The Greeks presented these two criteria as mutually
exclusive because they assumed that the idéa are universals (e.g. in a
grove of trees, all trees are copies of the one universal idéa of tree).
Though this debate was largely unresolved in the Islamic world,10
certain thinkers, including Ibn Sina (d. 1037) and Sohrevardi (d.
1191), advanced the doctrine of the particularity of the idéa. Ibn
Sina, in critiquing the Platonic doctrine of the idéa, explains that the
universals exist in particular embodiments.11 Sohrevardi, similarly,
suggests that the idéa are not single prototypes of a multitude of

Unity and Causality

particulars;
they
may,
rather,
be
embodied
in
particular
representations.12
In other words, to each particular being corresponds a particular
idéa distinct from the idéa of others of the same species (e.g. in a
grove of trees, each tree has its own idéa; similarly, all men do not
share the same soul but each man has an individual soul). This
resolves Plato and Aristotle’s dispute by adopting both of their
criteria. Plato was correct to assert that what truly is about a being is
its idéa, which idéa yet fulfills Aristotle’s requirement of ultimate
subjectivity because it is not common to the entire species but,
rather, is unique to this particular member of the species.
The Unity of Being
On what ground, if any, can the multiplicity of beings in the
world be considered not merely as a sum but as a totality (i.e. one
being, a unity)? This question necessarily invokes the question of
causality, which, in turn, invokes the question of God.
Greek Doctrine of the Eternity of the World (Fusis)
Though later philosophy asserted that the multiplicity of beings
were together as one in the mind of a creative God, the ancient
Greeks did not conceptualize God as a creator. Rather, their notion
was that God, like the sun, causes the movement of all beings, but
does not thereby create anything. Parmenides explains that Estin (the
totality of being) is “not-generated [from without] [for] how and
whence would it have grown? Out of not-being . . . it is neither sayable
nor thinkable.”13 Similarly, nowhere in Plato is a creative God
asserted,14 merely the Supreme idéa (Greek: tou-agathou-idean) Who
“holds-above far beyond” all other idéa and is their Unmoved
Mover.15 Nor does Aristotle assert the being of a creator-God; the
closest he comes to it is asserting that “all things are either ground or
from a ground.”16 The implication is that those beings that are
themselves grounds are not from a further ground, therefore being
groundless (uncreated).17
Rather, the Greeks accounted for the oneness of being through
the doctrine of the totality-of-being (Greek: fusis) whereby the
totality of being, though moved by God, generates itself eternally.
Though the sun provides the energy needed for nature to endure, it
does not on that account create nature — rather, nature perpetuates
itself. Parmenides explains that fusis is “whole, sole-of-its-kind . . . is
now at once all one . . . Nor is it divisible . . . it rests in itself”
(emphasis added).18 Aristotle confirms, “nothing is without order in
fusis because fusis itself is to all things a cause of order” (emphasis
added).19 Thus, fusis is the account of the plurality of beings as one
being (a totality).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

However, Aristotle raised initial arguments against this account
of the unity of being. First, by extension of his argument with Plato
regarding the idéa are merely attributes,20 he objects to the being of
an alleged “Supreme idéa.” Further, he argues that it is impossible to
classify the totality of being under the master genus of “Being”
(fusis). Despite his convoluted explanation,21 the heart of his
argument is compelling: “Being” itself is indefinable because every
definition must always already pre-suppose being (every definition
takes the form of “X is Y”). Therefore, Being cannot be an ultimate
genus (i.e. classification, definition).
Having objected to the two central elements of the Greek
account of the unity of being (the Supreme Mover and fusis),
Aristotle asks: “Then in what sense are different things called good?”
He offers another account, suggesting, albeit tentatively, the
“analogy of being.” He explains: “[the good of beings] do not seem
to be a case of homonymony by chance . . . Perhaps it is by way of
analogy: that is, as sight is good in the body, so intelligence is good
in the soul, and similarly another thing in something else.”22
In the end, however, Aristotle retracts this argument. Having found
no basis for any such analogy, he explains, “this question must be
dismissed for the present.” With no other way to legitimize a pursuit
of the “Science of Being,” he simply assumes that there is a Supreme
Being, one that he at times describes as self-thinking Thought
(Greek: Nous Noesis), and at others as the Unmoved Mover that moves
all beings through the attractive power of love (Greek: eros).23
The Neoplatonist Doctrine of Creation
The concept of creation, distinct from that of fusis, asserts that
God (“the First”) is the creator of all beings. This concept of a
Creator-God was present in the Judaic tradition (Book of Genesis)
and continued in the early Christian tradition (Book of John). A
subsequent bastion of this thinking was Gnosticism, which was
decisive in disseminating the doctrine, particularly from the 1st
century BC to the 1st century AD.24
The influence of these three currents of thought (Judaic, Greek,
Gnostic) upon Platonism25 resulted in Neoplatonism, a syncretism of
ancient Greek and Judeo-Christian thinking.26 As Plotinus (d. 269)
and Proclus (d. 485) both explain, God, through His self-
contemplation, emanated (created) the First Reason, which in turn
emanated a sequence of further Reasons through a series of similar
acts of contemplation. Each of these Reasons has created a
particular celestial realm, the last of which created the entire world
of nature. Thus, it is important to note that God, as the First in the
series of causation, does not directly create the world of nature, nor

Unity and Causality

can it be deduced that He necessarily “intervenes” (or even knows
of) the happenings of particular beings in the contingent realm (i.e.
in time and history). The eternal is bifurcated from the historical.
Significantly, this account results in an ambiguity that speaks, at
least partially, to Aristotle’s objections. Beings are not unified under
the master genus of Being because, as Proclus explains, the First
(God) is not a being. Rather, the First (is) featureless and nameless,
exalted above categories of sensible and intelligible beings, and can
only be inferred from perusal of the first caused being (Reason).27
However, viewed from the perspective of the First Reason, the
totality of being is unified under the master category of Being
because the First Reason is itself a being (created). Proclus explains
that “[a]ll things are found in the First Reason, since the First Agent
has made this product to contain many Forms and each of these
Forms to contain all the particular objects corresponding to that
form.”28 Hence, all beings exist as a totality in God’s Intelligence,
and their creation lies precisely in their existence (the Greek-
appropriated Latin word “ex-sistere” means “to cause to stand
outside of”). The apparent diversity of creation is due merely to the
divinely-ordained differences of dispositions of creatures, resulting
in varying degrees of reception of the single, uniform outpouring.29
Islamic Thinkers
Fárábí
Fárábí (d. 950), a Sufi and “philosopher,” was one of the first
Islamic thinkers to expound an explicit theory of the unity of being.
Without doubt, one of the most important contributions he made to
the concept was his distinction between necessary and contingent30
being. Meditating upon the Qur’anic articulation of the utter
transcendence, unity, and independence of God, Fárábí explained
that, while God is a being who is “necessary-in-Himself,” all other
beings are “necessary-through-Another” (this can be loosely
understood as “contingent”). This distinction amounts to a
preservation of the unity of God by way of his exclusive right to an
entire ontological domain.
Further, adapting the Neo-Platonist scheme, Fárábí explains that
God, though an act of Self-contemplation, emanates the First
Intellect.31 Through contemplation of its Author, the First Intellect
emanates the Second Intellect, and through self-contemplation, it
emanates the outermost heaven. The process continues until ten
Intellects and the specific heavenly spheres are emanated, the last of
which creates the terrestrial world, in which Man stands at the apex.32

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

However, in attempting to propose an authentically Islamic
doctrine, Fárábí makes a significant departure from the pre-Islamic
account of emanation. Specifically, he attributes to this Tenth
Intellect not only the capacities of creation, but also revelation.
Thus, he equates this Intellect with the Angel of Revelation, Gabriel.
al-Ghazálí’s Critique
Hamid al-Ghazálí (d. 1111) vehemently objected to certain
features of Neoplatonic thinking, particularly as articulated by
Fárábí (and by his successor, Ibn Sina).33 One of his chief criticisms
of the emanation scheme was that it denies God’s quality of
omniscience as postulated in the Qur’an. The concept of God as
“Self-Thinking Thought” suggests that God’s knowledge is limited
to Himself or, at most, to the First Intelligence, which is the only
being that directly emanates from Him. The scheme does not
suggest that God knows all of the beings that emanate further down
in the chain — including, for instance, particular terrestrial beings.
However, the Qur’an explains that nothing escapes God’s
knowledge, not even “the smallest particle in heaven or on earth.”34
Further, he argues that the Neo-Platonist assertion of separate
chains of independent causation is at odds with God’s absolute
power and prerogative to act freely. In other words, God is the only
being with will — He causes everything, directly. Though it may
appear that other beings have agency to effectuate effects, such
effects were in truth pre-ordained by God and only correlated with
the particular agents.
Simultaneously, Ghazálí objects to the ancient Greek and Neo-
Platonist assertions of the eternity of the world, which he views as
an arbitrary limitation on God’s power. He argues that, according to
the Qur’an, God created the creation out of absolute nothingness
(creation ex nihilo) — i.e., creation happened in time because at one
point there was nothing and only at a later point was there
something.35 Causation is temporal.
al-Ghazálí’s Proposal
While opposing the Neoplatonic account of the unity of being,
Ghazálí offered an alternative account, which proved to be
particularly
influential
in
subsequent
Islamic
mystical
and
philosophical thinking. For starters, he confirms the general
equation that Fárábí attempted — namely that God is a Revealer.
However, whereas Fárábí attributed this power of revelation to an
intelligence that was ten steps “removed” from God, Ghazálí’s
account is more radical: God, Himself, acts as a revealer. This
effectively replaced all of the emanated intelligences with a God
Who intervenes with, and sustains the unity of, His creation through

Unity and Causality

historical revelations. Along these lines, he explains that “the Qur’an
and other revealed scriptures are the expression of” the (Neo-
Platonic) intelligible world.36
Having dismissed the demonstrative complexity of Neo-Platonist
emanation with this single stroke, he offers, instead, an account of
the unity of being that simply asserts the relative nothingness of
creation. He employs the symbolic language of light and love. For
instance, in his commentary on the Qur’anic verse depicting God as
the light of heaven and earth,37 he explains that light applies to God
primarily and to all else only derivatively. He declares. “there is no
being in the world other than God . . . everything other than He . . . is
pure nonbeing . . . and is perishing eternally and everlastingly.”38
Suhrawardí
Suhrawardí was deeply influenced by Ghazálí’s account. As a
youth, he entered the Sufi path and is known to have studied
Ghazálí’s Mishqat al-Anwar, which inspired him with important
elements of his light imagery. Thus, typical of Suhrawardí’s account
is a depiction of the essence of all beings as lights originating from
the love of the Light of Lights.39
However, despite his adherence to these elements of Ghazálí’s
account, Suhrawardí departed from it in other respects, such as his
“revival” of the Neoplatonist doctrine of emanation. Suhrawardí
elaborated upon this doctrine, delineating various levels of reality
that emanate from God. In particular, he proposes the following
order of emanation: God, the world of pure Intelligences (jabarut),
the world of pure lights (malakut), the world of the fixed
archetypes, and the material world (mulk).
Ibn `Arabí
Ibn Arabí’s conception of the unity of being is often recognized as
the most mature and subtle of accounts amongst the great Islamic
thinkers and mystics. While there is no question that he made impor-
tant new contributions to this concept, it should also be recognized
that he benefited from, and utilized, conceptual features elaborated upon
by his predecessors. As this section will explain, Ibn ‘Arabí’s account
employs the following concepts that preceded him: the distinction
between necessary and contingent being (Fárábí), emanation (Neo-
platonism, Fárábí, Suhrawardí), the realm of the fixed archetypes
(Suhrawardí). Further, Ibn ‘Arabí employs poetic imagery that can be
traced to Hallaj (e.g. the mirror metaphor) and Junayd al-Baghdadi
(e.g. the shadow metaphor, discussed by Junayd in connection with
an individual’s attainment of the last of the four stages of tawhid).
To begin with, Ibn `Arabí, in his Fusus al-Hikam, makes the
ontological premise that the essence of every being in creation is

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

that it is a name. He posits this based upon the observation that,
linguistically, the Arabic words for “world” (‘alim), “knowledge”
(‘elm), and “sign” (‘alama) all derive from the same root (‘a-l-m).
Furthermore, the Qur’án’s Surah of the Fath pluralizes “world” in
the grammatical form of a sentient being (‘alemin). These
observations lead him to conclude that all beings are, essentially,
both means to the knowledge of God (i.e. names) and are actively
engaged in pursuing the knowledge of God (i.e. sentient).
Upon this foundation, Ibn ‘Arabí proposes a scheme of creation
by way of emanation (despite the efforts of al-Ghazálí, Ibn `Arabí
succeeds in fixing the emanation scheme in subsequent mystical
accounts of being). He explains that, in primordial, pre-eternity,
God existed alone — represented by the first part of the Hadith, “I
was a Hidden Treasure.” Here, God is most properly called al-Haqq,
which, as a concept, does not allow for Lordship, because He did not
yet create any subject-worshippers.
Next emanated the Fayd al-Aqdas (Most Holy Outpouring),
which represents the existence, in His knowledge, of the archetypes
of all things. These archetypes (a’yan) correspond to the totality of
all the names and are eternal precisely because they do not exist in
the visible realm of death and decay. This Outpouring can be
understood as corresponding to the second sentence of the same
Hadith, “I desired to be known.” Elsewhere, he equates this First
Emanation with the Reality of Mu˙ammad (al-Haqiqa al-
Mu˙ammadiya), which both created the creation and communicates
God’s will to the world historically. He explains that this Reality
refers not to the historic person of Mu˙ammad, but rather the
eternal spirit that animated all the prophets from Adam through
Mu˙ammad, of which Mu˙ammad was the fullest.40
The third stage is the Fayd al-Muqaddas (the Holy Outpouring),
which is the emanation of all created things in the visible realm, each
of which corresponding to a single archetype. This is represented by
the last sentence of the Hadith, “Therefore I created the creation in
order to be known.” God, in this respect, is most properly designated
as “Alláh,” because of his Lordship over these particular subjects.
This scheme of creation has important implications. Firstly, the
purpose of creation is not for God to reveal Himself to man, but for
God to reveal Himself to Himself. Second, the creation is the
perfect receptacle for the emanation of these names and attributes
(as Ibn ‘Arabí explains, it has the perfect isti’dad — the command
“Kon” is perfectly in harmony with the response of “Yakun”). To say
the same, the entire creation can be likened to a mirror, reflecting
the light of the sun. Third, man has a very special status amongst the
creation, because, as Ibn ‘Arabí explains in his first chapter of the

Unity and Causality

Fusus al Hikam, to Adam was taught the names and attributes of all
things, earning him the designation of “al-Insan al-Kamil.”
Therefore, man, amongst the entire creation, can be the fullest
reflection of God and the fullest means of God revealing Himself to
Himself. For this reason, the entire cosmos is referred to as the
“Insan al-Kabir” — i.e. a macrocosm of man.
From these considerations, the implications regarding the Unity
of Being become quite plain and clear. Given the scheme above, God
is the only necessary being (wajib al-wujud); all else is contingent
being (mumkin al-wujud). Thus, with respect to God, all other
beings are not; but with respect to themselves, they are, inasmuch as
they are reflections or shadows of God. It is clear, therefore, that
Ibn ‘Arabí’s account of the Unity of Being does not imply that man
can achieve union (ittisal) with God, nor that created beings are non-
beings in an absolute sense. While the multiple beings of creation
are, their mode of being is that of a shadow or reflection of God —
the sole being and the ultimate ground of the unity of being.41
Ibn Rushd
In opposition to the “mystical shift” in the thinking of the
Muslim world, exemplified in the thinking of figures such as al-
Ghazálí and Ibn `Arabí, Ibn Rushd attempted a rejuvenation of
philosophy in general, and of an account of the unity of being, in
particular, through a comprehensive refutation of both the
Neoplatonists (i.e. Fárábí and Ibn Sina) and al-Ghazálí. While
acknowledging that the Neoplatonist emanation scheme is
reconcilable with Plato, he argues that it distorts the teachings of
Aristotle. Such a scheme analogizes God’s agency to contingent
agency, suggesting that God can create only one effect. This,
however, places a false limitation on Divine power, which, in
principle, is capable of creating everything directly.42
His refutation of al-Ghazálí (in the sarcastically entitled Tahafut-
al-Tahafut), undertakes a systematic rebuttal of the assertions in al-
Ghazálí’s Tahafut. For instance, regarding Ghazálí’s gripe with the
Neoplatonists over the question of God’s knowledge, Ibn Rushd
claims that the entire debate is moot; both parties are guilty of
ascribing human modes of attributes and knowledge to God. In
truth, God’s attributes and knowledge are utterly transcendent and
categorically unknowable, inasmuch as “the First Being knows the
nature of particular beings through that Being per se, Who is
Himself.”43
Similarly, he argues against al-Ghazálí’s (and the Ash’arites’)
purported refutation of the will of created beings, explaining that
such a proposition is self-defeating because it nullifies the concept

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

of action altogether. Further, repudiating causality is tantamount to
repudiating knowledge, because knowledge is the act of eliciting the
causes underlying a given process. This, further, amounts to a
rejection of the notion of a wise Creator Who creates knowable
patterns in the creation by which He can be known.44
Ibn Rushd also rebuts al-Ghazálí’s criticism of the thesis of the
eternity of the creation, arguing that the Qur’an does not postulate
that God’s creation of the universe was temporal (i.e. it doesn’t say
that God existed together with non-being, and subsequently the
world came into being after it was not). In effect, Ibn Rushd rejects
the standard Christian and Muslim view of creation ex nihilo,
adopting, instead, Aristotle’s account — “the least doubtful and most
congruent with the nature of being”45 — which account asserts the
eternity of the world with respect to its potentiality. Though God
did create all beings, as the Qur’an postulates, this creation
amounted to God’s giving form to eternally pre-existing matter.
Though Ibn Rushd’s thesis of rationalism and Aristotelianism had
little influence in the post-Ghazálí Islamic world, it had a
considerable following in Europe. In the thirteenth century, his
works were translated into Hebrew and Latin, becoming, thereby, a
substantial part of Europe’s Aristotelian heritage. His Western
devotees included: Maimonedes, Siger de Brabant, Moses ben
Tibbon, Hermann the German, the “Averroesites” in the University
of Paris, Levi ben Gerson, Albert the Great, and, most notably, Saint
Thomas Aquinas.46
The effects of this Aristotelianism significantly modified the
concept of causality. In short, thirteenth century Christian
theologians recast the teaching of creation according to Aristotle’s
description of God as Nous Noesis (self-thinking Thought), resulting
in the doctrine that creation proceeds specifically from God’s
thinking (Latin: ratio, reason). The consequence: all beings are
thoughts of God. To say the same: all beings have a ratio (reason); all
beings are essentially intelligible.47 The intelligibility of beings, in
turn, legitimizes science and technique as the means of uncovering
those beings. Several centuries later, Leibnitz (d. 1716) articulates
the fullest expression of this doctrine as the Principle of Sufficient
Reason: “nihil est sine ratione” — nothing is without a ground, or,
stated positively: all that is is grounded in reason (everything has a
ground).48 Here, the departure from Aristotle49 is quite evident: even
those beings that are grounds must, themselves, be grounded. The
impossibility of an infinite regress of causes requires the being of an
ultimate, self-grounding ground (God).

Unity and Causality

Initial Reflections on the Bahá’í Synthesis
Inheritance and Systematization of Previous Concepts
It is clear, upon an even cursory review of the Bahá’í writings,
that numerous elements of the aforementioned intellectual heritage
have been incorporated into the Bahá’í concept of the unity of
being. As a starting point, it should be noted that the Bahá’í account
preserves the Ancient Greek insight regarding the eternity of the
universe, enshrined in the Greek concept of Fusis:
If we could imagine a time when no beings existed, this
imagination would be the denial of the Divinity of God. . .
If the beings were absolutely nonexistent, existence would
not have come into being. Therefore, as the Essence of
Unity (that is, the existence of God) is everlasting and
eternal — that is to say, it has neither beginning nor end —
it is certain that this world of existence, this endless
universe, has neither beginning nor end. (SAQ part IV)
Simultaneously, Bahá’í writings preserve the seemingly opposite,
theological concept of creation ex nihilo, espoused by the likes of al
Ghazálí:
All praise to the unity of God . . . Who, out of utter
nothingness, hath created the reality of all things, Who,
from naught, hath brought into being the most refined and
subtle elements of His creation . . . . How could it, otherwise,
have been possible for sheer nothingness to have acquired
by itself the worthiness and capacity to emerge from its
state of non-existence into the realm of being? (GWB 65)
This apparent contradiction — simultaneous acceptance of the
eternity of the universe, on the one hand, and God's creation of the
universe from nothingness, on the other, is addressed by Bahá'u’lláh
explicitly in the Tablet of Wisdom: “Wert thou to assert that [the
universe] hath ever existed and shall continue to exist, it would be
true; or wert thou to affirm the same concept as is mentioned in the
sacred Scriptures, no doubt would there be about it.” (TB 140)
Secondly, the Bahá’í conception adopts the concept of creation
by way of emanation, which concept was first encountered in the
Neoplatonist scheme and, despite the efforts of al-Ghazálí, persisted
amongst numerous of the great Muslim thinkers. More particularly,
the Bahá’í conception generally confirms the point made by Fárábí,
that the source of creation is also the source of revelation. However,
whereas both the Neoplatonist and Muslim emanationists espoused a
scheme of creation by way of a lengthy and somewhat mechanical
ordering of emanated Intelligences, the Bahá’í writings, perhaps

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

lending some credence to the spirit of al-Ghazálí's critique, seem to
avoid excessive nitpicking regarding the details of this scheme.
Numerous expositions of this scheme have, nevertheless, been
presented in the Bahá’í writings, perhaps the most prominent of
which focus on the concept of the Primal Will as the first emanation
from God and the direct agent involved in creation.
Thirdly, the Bahá’í writings adopt several of the essential features of
Ibn ‘Arabí's particular account of the unity of being, including the
notion that all beings are essentially names and attributes and that
Man represents the consummation of these names and attributes.
Upon the inmost reality of each and every created thing He
hath shed the light of one of His names, and made it a
recipient of the glory of one of His attributes. Upon the
reality of man, however, He hath focused the radiance of
all of His names and attributes, and made it a mirror of His
own Self. Alone of all created things man hath been
singled out for so great a favor, so enduring a bounty.
(GWB 64)
‘Arabí’s claim that all beings are simultaneously means of, and engaged
in, the knowledge of God, seems to be echoed in the Bahá’í Writings:
[A]ll things, in their inmost reality, testify to the
revelation of the names and attributes of God within them.
Each according to its capacity, indicateth, and is
expressive of, the knowledge of God. So potent and
universal is this revelation, that it hath encompassed all
things visible and invisible. (GWB 177, emphasis added)
Distinct Features of the Bahá’í Account
While confirming numerous features of Ibn 'Arabí's account,
one of the important points distinguishing the Bahá’í account seems
to be its explicit assertion that these names and attributes are not,
strictly speaking, of God, but, rather, are of the Manifestations of God.
Man, the noblest and most perfect of all created things,
excelleth them all in the intensity of this revelation, and is
a fuller expression of its glory. And of all men, the most
accomplished, the most distinguished, and the most
excellent are the Manifestations of the Sun of Truth. Nay,
all else besides these Manifestations, live by the
operation of Their Will, and move and have their
being through the outpourings of Their grace.
(GWB 177, emphasis added)
Similarly,

Unity and Causality

[b]y the revelation of these Gems of Divine
virtue [the Manifestations] all the names and attributes
of God, such as knowledge and power, sovereignty and
dominion, mercy and wisdom, glory, bounty, and grace, are
made manifest. (GWB 46, emphasis added)
The justification for declaring that the Manifestation of God,
rather than God, is the ground of the unity of being seems to derive
from the prior conception of God's utter transcendence:
He is, and hath ever been, veiled in the ancient eternity of
His Essence, and will remain in His Reality everlastingly
hidden from the sight of men. . . The door of the
knowledge of the Ancient of Days being thus closed in the
face of all beings, the Source of infinite grace. (GWB 46)
Indeed, precisely because of God's transcendence and consequent
inaccessibility to Man, God
hath caused those luminous Gems of Holiness to appear
out of the realm of the spirit, in the noble form of the
human temple, and be made manifest unto all men, that
they may impart unto the world the mysteries of the
unchangeable Being, and tell of the subtleties of His
imperishable Essence. (GWB 46)
Even more succinctly, “[t]he Unseen can in no wise incarnate His
Essence and reveal it unto men. He Who is everlastingly hidden
from the eyes of men can never be known except through
His Manifestation” (GWB XX, emphasis added).
However, the radical import of grounding the unity of being in
the Manifestation (rather than in God per se) cannot be appreciated
without reference to the particular teleological view of history
espoused in the Bahá’í writings. The Bahá’í writings, of course,
assert that history consists of universal cycles that are unimaginably
long in duration, consisting of “innumerable and incalculable periods
and epochs,” at the end of each of which “not a trace or record of it
will remain.” (SAQ 160-2) Each universal cycle, in turn, consists of
two phases: an age of prophecy and an age of fulfillment, the
former of which is characterized by “Prophets” or “Manifestations
of God,” and the latter of which is characterized by a single, “great
and supreme Manifestation” who “makes the world the center of
His radiance” and whose “appearance causes the world to attain to
maturity.” (SAQ 160-2) Though other Manifestations arise during an
age of fulfillment, their role is derivative: they “renew certain
commandments relating to material questions and affairs, while
remaining under His shadow.” (SAQ 160-2)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Further, the Bahá’í writings are unequivocal in asserting that this
most radical of all possible historical events — the appearance of the
Supreme Manifestation and therefore the essential consummation of
history — has now taken place:
O ye that inhabit the heavens and the earth! There hath
appeared what hath never previously appeared. He Who,
from everlasting, had concealed His Face from the sight of
creation is now come. (GWB XIV)
Further,
It is evident that every age in which a Manifestation of
God hath lived is divinely ordained, and may, in a sense, be
characterized as God's appointed Day. This Day, however,
is unique, and is to be distinguished from those that have
preceded it. The designation 'Seal of the Prophets' fully
revealeth its high station. The Prophetic Cycle hath, verily,
ended. The Eternal Truth is now come. He hath lifted up
the Ensign of Power, and is now shedding upon the world
the unclouded splendor of His Revelation. (GWB XXV)
And, as `Abdul-Bahá has stated so simply: “We are in the cycle
which began with Adam, and its supreme Manifestation is
Bahá'u'lláh.” (SAQ 160-2)
Though far beyond the scope of this paper, there can be no
doubt that, given this conception of history, the Bahá’í concept of
the unity of being is laden with implications unprecedented in the
Greek,
Neoplatonic,
or
Islamic
intellectual
forbears.
The
understanding of these implications are therefore now part of the
current and future labors of thought for Bahá’í thinkers. Given the
Bahá’í grounding of the concept of unity of being in the
Manifestation of God rather than in God per se, and given the
assertion of the appearance of the Supreme Manifestation, then the
general concept of the essence of all beings as names, attributes, and
referents to the “Manifestations” must now be re-thought
specifically and pointedly with reference to the “Supreme
Manifestation.” The very notion of unity, previously a possibility
that existed within the confounds of the relation between a historic
nation and its particular Prophet, must now be re-thought in light of
a Supreme Manifestation who has appeared to fulfill mankind at
large and all of the kingdoms of creation in general. Similarly, the
concept of a Manifestation as emanation, emanator, and creator
must be re-thought in light of Bahá'u’lláh's proclamation that
“through a word spoken by [God] in this Revelation, all created
things were made to expire, and through yet another word, all such
as [God] didst wish were, by [His] grace and bounty, endued with

Unity and Causality

new life,” (PM 42) and that “We have caused every soul to expire . . .
[w]e have, then, called into being a new creation.” (GWB XIV)
Conclusion
This paper has attempted to account for certain aspects of the
intellectual history underpinning the Bahá’í account of the unity of
being while pointing, however initially, to some of the ways in which
the Bahá’í account seems to depart, perhaps radically, from all prior
conceptions. In doing so, the present author has hoped to shed light
on the richness and diversity of elements contributing to the Bahá’í
conception, while showing that the Bahá’í account is in no way a
mere sum of these prior conceptions.
It has been argued, in brief, that the Bahá’í account confirms
both the Ancient Greek notion of the eternity of the universe and
the theological account of creation ex nihilo; that it upholds but
simplifies the Neoplatonic conception of creation via emanation;
that it confirms the general Islamic identification of the source of
creation with the source of revelation; and that it employs many of
the central features of Ibn `Arabí's account of the unity of being by
way of the universal reflection of divine names and attributes.
Perhaps more importantly, this paper has argued that the Bahá’í
conception seems to rest upon a ground that is unprecedented in all
prior accounts: the conception of the Manifestation of God in every
age as both the cause of beings and the object of their reflection,
and the radical assertion that we, in our current age and in very
recent times, have witnessed the historic happening of the most
weighty of all possible events: the appearance on the terrestrial plane
of the Supreme Manifestation. As the Ground of Grounds and the
Causes of Causes, the Supreme Manifestation has, with a single
stroke, destroyed the creation of old, and along with it all prior
limitations and possibilities, and has raised up a new creation
endowed with unprecedented and hitherto unimagined possibilities
for the reflection, by the totality of being, of the divine attributes
and names.

NOTES
1 English quotations of the works of the Islamic thinkers cited in this
paper are largely drawn from the translations of Majid Fakhry. See,
generally, Majid Fakhry, A History of Islamic Philosophy (1983).
2 Parmenides, Fragments, No. 8.
3 Parmenides, Fragments, No. 8.
4 This paper parenthesizes conjugations of the verb “to be” whenever the
sentence employing this verb predicates non-being upon its subject.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven


5 Plato, Politea, Book V, line 507(b).
6 Aristotle, Categories, Book V, ch. ii, (a)(11-18).
7 See Aristotle, Metaphysics, Book VII, ch. xiii, 1038 (b)(10).
8 See Aristotle, Metaphysics, Book VIII, ch. xiii, 1038 (b)(35). See also
Aristotle, Nichomachean Ethics, Book I, ch. vi, 5 (explaining that the
logos of “Man” and of “this man” are the same and, therefore, the idéa
of man is not separate from the particular man but, rather, belongs to
each particular man).
9 See, e.g., Aristotle, Metaphysics, Book VII, ch. iv, 1029 (b)(3-13).
10 For instance, Ibn Arabí’s account of the “Fixed Archetypes” (Ayaneh
Thabiteh) in his Fusus al-Hikam is largely a reiteration of the
Platonic account of the universality of the idéa.
11 Ibn Sina, al-Shifa, at 290.
12 Sohrevardi, Hikmat al-Ishraq, at 92.
13 Parmenides, Fragments, No.8.
14 In this connection, Plato’s Timeus, suggesting a creator-god
(demiurge), must be overlooked because it is a mythological, not
philosophical, depiction.
15 Plato, Politea, Book V, line 509(b).
16 Aristotle, Physics, Book III, ch.iv, 200(b)(5).
17 To say the same, though Aristotle explains that the grounds for any
being consists in “the four causes,” nowhere does he assert that the
“four causes” themselves have a cause.
18 Parmenides, Fragments, No. 8.
19 Aristotle, Physics, Book VIII, ch.i, 252(a)(22).
20 See Plato, Politea, Books IV and V. Contrast with Aristotle,
Categories, Book V, ch. ii, (a)(11-18); Aristotle, Metaphysics, Book
VII, ch. xiii, 1038 (b)(10); Aristotle, Metaphysics, Book VIII, ch. xiii,
1038 (b)(35); Aristotle, Nichomachean Ethics, Book I, ch. vi, 5
(explaining that the logos of “Man” and of “this man” are the same
and, therefore, the idéa of man is not separate from the particular
man but, rather, belongs to each particular man); Aristotle,
Metaphysics, Book VII, ch. iv, 1029 (b)(3-13).
21 He explains that for a genus to exist, it must contain different
species, which difference requires differentia which themselves are.
Thus, if we attribute being to the differentia, then there is no
difference between the species and the genus, and therefore the
purported genus of “being” is not a genus. See Aristotle,
Metaphysics, Book III, ch.iii, 998(b)(17-29).
22 Aristotle, Nichomachean Ethics, Book I, ch.vi, 12.
23 Aristotle, Metaphysics, Book XII, ch.vii, 1072(a)(25).
24 See generally Jonas, Hans, The Gnostic Religion.
25 For an account of Platonism, see Paper Section III(B), below.
26 A major factor in this syncretism was “the introduction of the Jewish
Scriptures into Greek intellectual circles via the translation known

Unity and Causality


as the Septuagint. The encounter between the creation narrative of
Genesis and the cosmology of Plato's Timaeus set in motion a long
tradition of cosmological theorizing that finally culminated in the
grand schema of Plotinus' Enneads.” Internet Encyclopedia of
Philosophy
27 Proclus, Liber de Causis, Proposition 5.
28 Id.
29 Proclus, Liber de Causis, Propositions 19, 21, and 23.
30 See Madkour, Ibrahim, “al Fárábí,” in A History of Islamic
Philosophy, Sharif, Mu˙ammad, ed., pp.450-460.
31 Id. at 115 (citing Fárábí, Ihsa’al-Ulum, p.100).
32 Id. at 139 (citing Ibn Sina, al-Najat, pp.184, 278).
33 See also Paper Section III(C)(iii) below.
34 The Qur’an at 34,3.
35 Fakhry at 225 (citing Al-Ghazálí, Tahafut al-Falasifah, p.53).
36 Id. at 248 (citing Al-Ghazálí, Mishkat al-Anwar, p.18). Note that such
usage of Neo-Platonic terminology grounds Ibn Rosht’s later
accusation that Ghazálí commits duplicity in his polemic against
Neo-Platonism.
37 The Qur’an at 24:34.
38 Fakhry at 249 (citing Al-Ghazálí, Mishkat al-Anwar, p.55).
39 Id. at 301 (citing Ibn Sina, Hikmat al-Ishraq, pp.12,149).
40 Id. at 253 (citing Affifi, The Mystical Philosophy of Ibnu’l-`Arabí, p.
71). Note the difference between this doctrine and the Christian
doctrine of Christ as the only manifestation of the logos.
41 Fakhry at 252 (citing Affifi, The Mystical Philosophy of Ibnu’l-Arabí,
p. 82).
42 Ibn Rushd, Tahafut al-Tahafut, at 176.
43 Ibn Rushd, Tafsir ma Ba’d al-Tabi’ah, III, 1707.
44 Ibn Rushd, Tahafut al-Tahafut, at 519,522.
45 Ibn Rushd, Tafsir ma Ba’d al-Tabi’ah, III, at 1497-8.
46 Id. at 275. (noting, however, that amongst Ibn Rushd’s European
following, he was often “denationalized” from Islam — misperceived
by some as a Christian leader of Latin rebellion against the Church,
or as a Jewish intellectual leader in Spain and Southern France).
47 To state the same inversely: if all beings are intelligible, then they
are all, essentially, thoughts. As thoughts, they must proceed from a
thinking mind that is creative. Man’s thinking does not create
beings; therefore all beings are thoughts of God.
48 See Leibnitz, Wilhelm Von, La Monodologie, Principles of Nature and
of Grace Founded on Reason, Item VII.
49 See paper Section II(A) above.

Law˙-i-Hikmat, Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet
of Wisdom
Towards a Progressive Bahá’í Theology
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Introduction
In writing a paper on Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet of Wisdom, an
attempt is made to appreciate some aspects of this Tablet of
Bahá’u’lláh in a personal reflection on His Revelation. He has called
this Revelation a “Beauteous,” (KA 611) and a “Most Potent
Revelation” (GWB 95) and has encouraged us to explore this
“Mysterious and Transcendent,” (GWB 325) this “Perspicuous and
Luminous Revelation.” (GWB 196) We experience often enough this
Revelation as “Bewildering and Challenging.” (GWB 254)
This commentary should be understood as an attempt to respond
to this bewildering challenge, to see the perspicuity and the
transcendent mystery of this Revelation and how to solve the
apparent contradiction between the terms “mysterious and
transcendent” on the one hand and “perspicuous and luminous” on
the other2. Responding to the Revelation of the Manifestation
becomes the center and standard of our philosophical and
theological discourse; the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh must be the
point of departure of all Bahá’í theological thinking and only in this
sense, and in following the Covenant3, will theological studies
promote unity rather than disunity, as it has happened in previous
Dispensations.
No external criteria can be used to judge any Divine Revelation;
it is the internal consistency and the life- and world-changing power
that gives proof of the reality and truth of the Manifestation.
Bahá’u’lláh states
Say: The first and foremost testimony establishing His
truth is His own Self. Next to this testimony is His
Revelation. For whoso faileth to recognize either the one
or the other He hath established the words He hath
revealed as proof of His reality and truth. (GWB 105)
Shoghi Effendi called this process a revolution in the life of
mankind:

Law˙-i-Hikmat

For no more convincing proof could be adduced
demonstrating the regenerating spirit animating the
Revelations proclaimed by the Báb and Bahá'u'lláh than
their power to transform what can be truly regarded as one
of the most backward, the most cowardly, and perverse of
peoples into a race of heroes, fit to effect in turn a similar
revolution in the life of mankind. (ADJ 18)
It needs to be noted that these reflections on the Tablet of
Wisdom do not attempt to describe or comment on the Tablet as a
whole, the author would neither be able to provide this, nor does he
have the linguistic requirements to make such an attempt.
Consequently, this paper selects specific topics from this Tablet and
reflects only the thoughts of this writer to these verses, not at all
presenting a complete commentary of this Tablet or any kind of
official interpretation of the Sacred Writings of the Bahá’í Faith.
To select special verses from this Tablet for reflection appears to
be justified, when considering the statement of Bahá’u’lláh “that in
each verse of the Tablet of Hikmat an ocean is concealed.” This
statement is reported by Adib Taherzadeh in his book The
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.4 Therefore, every verse of this Tablet has
an inexhaustible multitude of meanings and the presented
reflections are only one way of understanding a particular verse.
This, of course, implies that whenever meaning is found in the
Writings, there is always an immeasurable amount of truth, revealed
in these Writings, either not known at all, or not yet understood.
Whatever is confirmed and communicated in this paper, we should
never forget the warnings expressed by Bahá’u’lláh, not to reject
what cannot be understood at this time and to implore God to open
our hearts to a more true understanding and a deeper appraisal of
the inexhaustible treasure of this Revelation, as He stated:
O servant! Warn thou the servants of God not to reject
that which they do not comprehend. Say, implore God to
open to your hearts the portals of true understanding that
ye may be apprised of that of which no one is apprised.
Verily, He is the Giver, the Forgiving, the Compassionate.
(TB 188)
Consequently, the reader is encouraged, in true consultation, to
add her/his understanding of these verses to this paper;5 in a
communication of different opinions the truth will become clearer
and the depth of meaning can be more richly explored. This paper,
therefore, is nothing else than a preliminary attempt to understand
today’s thinking and philosophizing in the light of this “Mysterious
and Transcendent,” (GWB 325) this “Perspicuous and Luminous”
Revelation. (GWB 196)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

While most of these reflections are presented here following the
sequence of the Tablet of Wisdom, which is commented upon in its
overall structure and sequence, the following special issues will be
elaborated more thoroughly, whenever these issues seem to be
presented in the Tablet.
We will specifically comment on the idea of Progressive
Theology; on the consequences of Philosophical Error; and on the
theory of Form and Matter and other similar oppositional concepts.
Another question will be raised about the Fundamentals of
Philosophy and what a True Philosopher is, according to Bahá’u’lláh.
Finally, the issue of Spiritual Materialism will be discussed in this
context and the Philosophy of Dialogical Thinking will be applied to
the understanding of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.
Ultimately, the heuristic value of these findings for a Bahá’í
philosophy will be suggested, not so much in definite conclusions,
but rather in the direction in which such a potential philosophy may
develop.
Progressive Theology
This topic is not directly mentioned, but implied in the Tablet,
and it is presented here in the beginning, as it appears to this writer
to be an integral part of the following reflections on the Tablet. The
term Progressive Theology is obviously coined in relation to the term
of Progressive Revelation, which is a Bahá’í principle. This principle
indicates that the successive appearances of the Manifestations of
God throughout history are for the purpose of progressively
revealing the mysteries of God to humankind throughout the ages.
In the Bahá’í understanding of religion, there is only one religion
of God and all major religions are consecutive and progressive steps
of this one religion. Consequently, the concept of Progressive
Revelation corresponds with the idea that humankind is evolving
and maturing over time and every Revelation of God is presented at
the level of understanding, which humanity has at that specific
period. Corresponding to the Progressive Revelations that occurs
every five hundred to one thousand years, there is a process during
the period from the appearance of one Manifestation to the next,
where theology or the understanding of this Revelation makes
progress, which is here called Progressive Theology.6
During
this
period
humankind
is
improving
spiritually,
philosophy and sciences are progressing, the understanding of the
world is growing, and this will further promote a better
understanding of the previous Revelation.7 What has to be stressed
in this context is the fact that the human progress of spirituality,

Law˙-i-Hikmat

philosophy and science is not independent of the previous
Revelation, as it is usually assumed by secular historians. In the
Tablet of Wisdom, Bahá’u’lláh specifically mentions the fact that it
is the Manifestation who aids philosophers, when He said:
A true philosopher would never deny God nor His
evidences, rather would he acknowledge His glory and
overpowering majesty which overshadow all created things.
Verily We love those men of knowledge who have brought
to light such things as promote the best interests of
humanity, and We aided them through the potency of Our
behest, for well are We able to achieve Our purpose. (TB
150)
Further, Bahá’u’lláh stated that the Manifestation of God is
directing and causing the prevalence of philosophy in one country or
in one period of time:
Consider Greece. We made it a Seat of Wisdom for a
prolonged period. However, when the appointed hour
struck, its throne was subverted, its tongue ceased to speak,
its light grew dim and its banner was hauled down. Thus do
We bestow and withdraw. Verily thy Lord is He Who
giveth and divesteth, the Mighty, the Powerful. (TB 149)
That the Manifestation of God is the cause of all scientific progress
is clearly stated by Bahá’u’lláh:
O Inmost Heart of this Temple! We have made thee the
dawning-place of Our knowledge and the dayspring of Our
wisdom unto all who are in heaven and on earth. From thee
have We caused all sciences to appear, and unto thee shall
We cause them to return. And from thee shall We bring
them forth a second time. Such, indeed, is Our promise,
and potent are We to effect Our purpose. Erelong shall
We bring into being through thee exponents of new and
wondrous sciences, of potent and effective crafts, and shall
make manifest through them that which the heart of none
of Our servants hath yet conceived. (SLH 35, emphasis
added)
These quotes indicate that it is the Manifestation Who bestows
and withdraws, Who aids and causes the progress of philosophy,
Who promotes the progress of human science and understanding in
general. It is the Manifestation of God Who initiates and promotes
this process of increasing understanding we call Progressive
Theology.
This process is circular: the Manifestation through His
Revelation promotes human progress and this progress then assists in

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

better understanding the Revelation of the Manifestation, which
again improves the scientific inquiry. In this paper this circular
process is presupposed and it is the key to this presentation.
As a matter of fact, it is this writer’s personal experience that has
pointed to this conclusion. Contemporary philosophical writings
were recognized and found almost verbatim in the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, improving their philosophical meaning. At other times
the opposite happened; modern philosophical thoughts were better
understood by this writer after a deepening in the Bahá’í
Revelation.8
That this progress of science and philosophy can provide insight
into the Bahá’í theology and in a circular process improves the
science and philosophy as well, has been stated by the Universal
House of Justice:
Those believers with the capacity and opportunity to do so
have repeatedly been encouraged in their pursuit of
academic studies by which they are not only equipped to
render much needed services to the Faith, but are also
provided with the means to acquire a profound
insight into the meaning and the implications of
the Bahá'í Teachings. They discover also that the
perceptions gained from a deeper understanding of the
Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh clarify the subjects of their
academic inquiry. (UHJ, 1998 Mar 19, Compilation on
Scholarship; emphasis added)
Most recently, the Universal House of Justice has mentioned the
same idea again and included not only religious people but even
those who do not have a religious inclination in this process of
increasing understanding:
Bahá’ís will come to increasingly appreciate that the Cause
they serve represents the arrowhead9 of an awakening
taking place among people everywhere regardless of
religious background and indeed among many with no
religious leaning. (OCF p. iii, emphasis added)
The Bahá’í Faith is the “arrowhead,” of an awakening; the tip of
the process of change in the thinking of humanity, and it is noted
that this awakening, this re-thinking, is not restricted to Bahá’ís, or
religious people, but even includes many “with no religious leaning.”
As will be pointed out, the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh is the cause of
this new thinking, this revolutionary development of science and
philosophy, as He stated when He wrote “We caused all sciences to
appear.” (ibid, footnote 8)

Law˙-i-Hikmat

It needs to be noted again that this is a circular and ongoing
process. The Revelation causes the sciences and arts to develop; the
study of these sciences and arts provide means to better understand
the Revelation; and this better understanding will improve the
academic inquiry of the research and study.
The figure below describes this circular process in the words of
Bahá’u’lláh on top, at the right side and at the bottom of the figure;
and on the left side in the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Who implies in
the concept of worship and service the value of arts and sciences in
assisting of a deeper understanding of the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh. This deeper understanding will again aid the
philosopher to improve his/her thinking and will assist in clarifying
the inquiry as the Universal House of Justice has pointed out. The
guiding principles in this process are the Independent Investigation
of Truth and the Harmony between Science and Religion.10

Nevertheless, in the same way that an individual Bahá’í goes
through a process of progress in the understanding of the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh during her/his lifetime, the Bahá’í
community in its theological thinking will go through the same
process over
time.
The
Bahá’í
principle
of
“independent
investigation of truth” does not stop once a believer accepts the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Faith;  it is an ongoing process. Adherence to the Covenant11 will
guarantee the unity and relevance of this theological development.
In the following table these two processes are placed besides each
other with the distinction that the process of Progressive Revelation
takes place over five hundred to thousand years, while the process of
Progressive Theology is an ongoing process during these five
hundred or thousand years. Another distinction is the fact that
Progressive Theology is a substantially different process and totally
dependent on the previous Revelation and its official interpretation.

Progressive Revelation
Progressive Theology
Humankind Maturing
Humankind Improving
Successive Manifestations
bring Progressive Revelations
in History
Ongoing Progress of Philosophy
and Science through the Power of
the previous Revelation
Unity of the Manifestations
Unity of Theology in the
Covenant
Progressive Understanding of
the Divine
Progress in Understanding the
World
Progressive Unity of
Humanity
Progress in Understanding
Humanity
Spiritual Progress of
Humankind
Spiritual and Theological Progress
in Understanding the Revelation
Every 500 — 1000 years

Ongoing until the next
Revelation

Consequences of Philosophical Error
The Tablet of Wisdom begins with an introduction to the
addressee12 and with a succinct and brief description of today’s
world, in which Bahá’u’lláh illustrates the grievous situation of
humanity.
We exhort mankind in these days when the countenance of
Justice is soiled with dust, when the flames of unbelief are
burning high and the robe of wisdom rent asunder, when
tranquility and faithfulness have ebbed away and trials and
tribulations have waxed severe, when covenants are broken

Law˙-i-Hikmat

and ties are severed, when no man knoweth how to discern
light and darkness or do distinguish guidance from error.
(TB 137)
In the last sentence of this narrative Bahá’u’lláh seems to be
describing different philosophical views prevalent in these days.
These views of the human inability to know truth were presented in
many philosophical systems; most of them are rather widespread
today. The following theories can be counted among these views: in
ancient times pre-Socratic sophism, today modern agnosticism,
relativism and post modernism, and in some ways nominalism and
conceptionalism, all of which deny the possibility of distinguishing
truth from falsehood, good from bad, light from darkness and
guidance from error. It appears that these are the basic causes of the
above mentioned problems of today’s world such as injustice,
unbelief, global tribulations and lack of trust in society.
The conclusion from these statements points to the fact that not
all philosophy and scientific theory is equally valid and beneficial to
humankind.
There
are
certain
differences
among
theories,
ideologies, and philosophical assumptions that influence a whole
civilization, leading either to its betterment or to its downfall. This
fact was clearly demonstrated during the last century, where the
clash of different ideas about “who is man” resulted in two world
wars, in continuing ideological conflicts and terror, and worldwide
disunity and in the death of about 10 percent of the world
population.13
In the next section, which we will not specifically comment
upon,14 Bahá’u’lláh calls on the peoples of this world to “forsake all
evil and hold fast that which is good.” (TB 138) Following that He
makes reference of the sorrow that the present situation of the
world has provided for Him and how He was mistreated by the
rulers of His day. He closes this section with the statement that “the
people have perpetrated a grievous injustice.” (TB 140)
At this point Bahá’u’lláh responds to the question that was put to
Him about the beginning of creation.15 He describes this beginning
with several seemingly contradictory statements in order to indicate
the inscrutable truth about creation, such as a beginning without
beginning and an end without end. Both statements are presented as
truth, the statement of the creation as having existed forever and
the statement of a beginning of creation. The conclusion of this
section is the explanatory statement for the contradiction mentioned
above, which will not be followed up here further.
And in the station of ‘I did wish to make Myself known’,
God was, and His creation had ever existed beneath His
shelter from the beginning that hath no beginning, apart

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

from its being preceded by a Firstness which cannot be
regarded as firstness and originated by a Cause inscrutable
even unto all men of learning. (TB 140)
The World of Existence, Form and Matter and
the Integration of Opposites
In the following paragraph, which will be the next topic to be
reflected upon in more detail, Bahá’u’lláh uses some known
philosophical terms in explaining the beginning of creation. He talks
about preexistence16 of the world of creation and how it came into
being:
The world of existence came into being through the heat
generated from the interaction between the active force
and that which is its recipient. (TB 140)
This statement could be compared with the philosophical
concepts of form and primal matter as the scholastic tradition has
explained it, following the Aristotelian metaphysic. Bahá’u’lláh
seems to use the terms of what is usually called the peripatetic school
of philosophy as presented by Socrates, Plato and Aristotle. These
philosophical concepts were further developed in the Scholastic
philosophy during the medieval period.17
The first note to be added here is that Bahá’u’lláh described
beings as coming into existence not only through the information of
the primal matter, through form and matter, as the classic
philosophy will have it, but He introduces the function of heat in
this process. In other words, He states that this coming together of
the active force and its recipient is caused by energy, i.e. heat, which
brings the world of existence into being. We can see in this
formulation an indication that the world of existence, as Bahá’u’lláh
sees it, is not a static and substantive world, but a dynamic and
evolutionary one, to speak in modern terms.18 It is energy, it is heat
which brings the world into being. ‘Abdul-Bahá speaks about
attraction and love in this context, stating:
All created things are expressions of the affinity and
cohesion of elementary substances, and nonexistence is the
absence of their attraction and agreement. Various
elements unite harmoniously in composition, but when
these elements become discordant, repelling each other,
decomposition
and
nonexistence
result.
Everything
partakes of this nature and is subject to this principle, for
the creative foundation in all its degrees and kingdoms is
an expression or outcome of love. (PUP 123)

Law˙-i-Hikmat

This seems to imply that it is not matter giving the form its
existence by information, but it is the attraction and cohesion
between elementary substances (active force and recipients, form
and matter) that creates concrete actuality. In the same way, lack of
this attraction, which is basically an expression of love, will cause
decomposition and nonexistence. While in this picture some
elements of the Platonic or Neoplatonic philosophies are
incorporated, the structure is essentially different. Here it is not that
forms or ideas — existence in potential — give existence to matter,
but rather both potential and form are brought into existence
through love and attraction. Teilhard de Chardin, a century later,
similarly expressed that the ever-higher unification and convergence
of reality is caused by love, or spirit, which is always part of reality.
The most penetrating interpretation we can give of the
world — the interpretation we find in much the same terms
in all mystical and philosophical systems — is to regard the
world as a movement of universal convergence, within
which the plurality of matter is consummated in spirit. This
view of things takes into account the fundamental and
creative role of erotic attraction.19
Besides the introduction of heat in the process of coming into
existence, Bahá’u’lláh explains the subject further and differently.
He defines the relation between that which is the active form and its
recipients in an altogether new way, when He adds, “These two are
the same, yet they are different.” (TB 140) This can only mean that
the form and the matter are in one way the same and in another way
different. Being the same while simultaneously being different does
not necessarily constitute a contradiction; as a matter of fact, one
could say more pointedly, the more they are the same, the more they
are different. Generally, when we oppose two concepts, we assume
that an increase on one side will cause a decrease on the opposing
side. Yet there is another kind of relationship, which is called
polarity or “integral opposition,” as one could translate the German
term Integraler Gegensatz.20 In this term two rather opposing
concepts are combined, are integrated. Integration is typically not
placed together with opposition, yet in this understanding these two
opposing concepts are deliberately united, or as it could be said, they
are integrated, indicating that both the integration and the
opposition is present, i.e., when these two concepts are united, they
form a logical unity of a higher level of reality. This process is
formed similar as the Hegelian dialectic, but the process is seen
differently; there is no need for a Thesis, Antithesis and Synthesis,
which are abstract concepts, an idealistic formality. Here we talk
about a concrete integration. In other words it could be said that in
these concepts reality is described as it actually is, not separated as

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

reality appears in the thinking process, but reality as it is in concrete
actuality.
The Bahá’í concept of Unity in Diversity is formed in the same
way: two logically contradictory terms are combined to describe a
higher level of reality. In the quote of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá above, a similar
logical process is at work, when He says “Various elements unite
harmoniously in composition, but when these elements become
discordant, repelling each other, decomposition and nonexistence
result.”
We have a unity of various and different elements, not by
forcing these elements into unity, not by eliminating these elements
in order to establish unity, but by respecting and promoting the
different elements in the new unity of a higher order.
In this dynamic structure, out of different elements a higher
unity and harmony is produced, through unification and love, yet
this structure would decompose as soon as there is the opposite of
harmony and attraction; as soon as there is discord and absence of
harmony, the structure decomposes. Extrapolating from these
statements one could postulate that this is the structure of the
universe, where in a dynamic unification new structures are
continuously created, structures in which diverse and multiple
elements are united in a new unity. This principle of dynamic
unification of multiple elements does solve the age-old question
about the whole and the part. Which is first, which is more
important, the whole or the part? Contrary to this static view, in
which for example Aristotle stated that the whole is prior to the
part, we must now state that the whole is through the part and the
part is through the whole. They both are united through this
attraction, this spiritual element that is internal to all material
structures.
We can find thoughts like this in the philosophy of Teilhard de
Chardin and more recently in Xavier Zubiri and Ken Wilber21. The
recent book of Sen McGlinn, Church and State, applies this concept
to the relationship between religion and government, following the
Bahá’í Writings. While he calls the relationship organic unity,
philosophically he describes the same relationship in the picture of
the living organism, which was used in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá.22
In this polar relationship, both sides are increasing together, like
in a magnet, where both poles become stronger when the magnet’s
strength increases; or, the more opposition the more integration.
This is certainly known in personal matters. The more I know and
accept another person as different, as “the other”, the deeper and
stronger the unity with this person can become.

Law˙-i-Hikmat

When the differences are disregarded the result is not unity but
uniformity, or disorder and anarchy at the other side of the extreme,
both demonstrating the lack of unity. The importance of
moderation and the danger of the extremes were described by
Bahá’u’lláh, who stated at many occasion in His writings this
problem of moderation and the excesses:
If carried to excess, civilization will prove as prolific a
source of evil as it had been of goodness when kept within
the restraints of moderation. (GWB 342)
The same relationship applies in the Bahá’í understanding of the
concepts of “Unity in Diversity.” When people unite they become
more the same in their unity, yet at the same time their differences
will become more marked and this will contribute to the overall
value of the unity. They are the same, therefore they are in unity;
they are different, and therefore they are diverse. The more unity,
the more diversity is possible, and vice versa. This mutual
enhancement in a polar relationship is an indication of a spiritual
relationship. In a material relationship, it is simple, the more money I
give away, the less money I will have. With spiritual values it is the
opposite, the more love I give away, the richer I get in love.
It should never be forgotten that this Unity in Diversity has to be
applied in moderation. When the unity is stressed to the extreme, it
results in uniformity; when diversity is pursuit excessively, anarchy
and disorder results. The balance of this principle is moderation.
Both the unity and the diversity have to enhance each other in order
to make this principle functional.
That diversity of the world is not in opposition to its unity but
rather is promoting unity, was expressed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the
picture of the garden in which the diversity of flowers, of colors and
scents, increases the beauty and unity of the garden. Summarizing
this concept He states:
This difference and this variation strengthen love and
harmony and this multiplicity is the greatest aid to unity.
(BWF 295)
In fact, as history and psychology can teach us, uniformity can
only be sustained through violence and terror, while a loving and
trusting relationship, accepting diversity, will strengthen itself. This
human and political wisdom was already understood by the Chinese
Sage Mencius, (Meng-tzu: 4th century BC) when he stated:
To pretend Force is Humanity — that’s the mark of a
tyrant, and a tyrant needs a large country. To practice
Humanity through Integrity — that’s the mark of a true
emperor, and a true emperor doesn’t need a large country.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

If you use force to gain the people’s submission, it isn’t
submission of the heart. It’s only a submission of the weak
to the strong.
But if you use Integrity to gain the people’s submission,
it’s a submission of the sincere and delighted heart.23
Any system of morals is built on this relationship. On the other
hand, the classic capitalist system assumed that the selfishness of the
individual will enrich the world.
Daniel Bell24 has formulated this, stating “For Adam Smith,
individual exchange, in which each man pursues his own self-
interest, is the basis of freedom, self-satisfaction, and mutual
advantage, when rationally pursued through the division of labor, it
is also the basis of accumulation and wealth.” This just does not
happen, or if it happens, it happens only for the capitalists who are
enriched, not the worker.
The same is true for the opposing moral system of communism,
as described in the Communist Manifesto by Marx and Engels25 as
“an association, in which the free development of each is the
condition for the free development of all”. This assumes that the
more people are materialistically equal in the same class, and the
more other classes are suppressed, the more they will be uniform and
happiness in freedom will prevail; in other words, the less some
individuals or classes are valued, the richer the collective becomes
for the prevailing class, i.e., the proletariat. In none of the different
Communist States, no matter of their different nationality or
culture, was this actually realized. The only people who prospered
were the party members, not the proletariat or the country as a whole.
Neither of these two extreme materialistic philosophies of
freedom through opposing economic developments panned out, and
both produced the opposite result. In both forms, in rampant
capitalism and in militant communism, only the leaders are free, not
the people. It is interesting to note that capitalism could develop and
flourish as soon as it accepted social constraints and moderation. The
same did not happen with communist states, except in what is called
democratic socialism as practiced in Europe. As soon as both systems
reach some level of moderation and acknowledge a more spiritual
understanding of the human condition, they will abolish their
extreme position and be more functional26.
Bahá’u’lláh initiates a new understanding of the relationship
between form and matter, which uses the Aristotelian terms and
formulates the issues by using scholastic concepts, but transcends
this understanding in the context of this new and “most potent
Revelation”. This understanding is not a special situation, but a

Law˙-i-Hikmat

general principle in this Revelation27. Bahá’u’lláh states in the Kitáb-
i-ˆqán:
Please God, that we avoid the land of denial, and advance
into the ocean of acceptance, so that we may perceive, with
an eye purged from all conflicting elements, the worlds of
unity and diversity, of variation and oneness, of limitation
and detachment, and wing our flight unto the highest and
innermost sanctuary of the inner meaning of the Word of
God. (KI 160, emphasis added)
In order to understand “the world of unity and diversity”
(Sameness and Difference) as well as the world of “variation and
oneness” (parts and whole) and “limitation and detachment”
(material aspect of creation and the spiritual detachment from it),
we have to leave the land of denial, the mindset of denying the
spiritual realm, and reach “the highest and innermost sanctuary of
the inner meaning of the Word of God”, which is the Revelation of
the Manifestation.
The polarity of unity and diversity, as well as variation and
oneness, is here integrated in the “ocean of acceptance” of the
Revelation, after the eye is purged from all conflicting elements of
materialistic thinking. In this statement the philosophical tradition
that is expressed in the opposition of form and matter, of spirit and
matter, of whole and part, of the one and the many, of individual
and collective as well as the seemingly opposition of the self and the
other, of the I and the Thou is transcended and integrated.
In the Seven Valleys, Bahá’u’lláh has presented the four states of
the self as Outwardness and Inwardness, as Firstness and Lastness.
And
thus
firstness
and
lastness,
outwardness
and
inwardness are, in the sense referred to, true of thyself,
that in these four states conferred upon thee thou shouldst
comprehend the four divine states, and that the nightingale
of thine heart on all the branches of the rosetree of
existence, whether visible or concealed, should cry out: “He
is the first and the last, the Seen and the Hidden . . .” (SV 2728)
First and Last, or Firstness and Lastness, are opposites that are
dependent on each other and not only opposed, but also related, so
we can formulate the following list of opposed categories, which are
integrated in the Spiritual Reality:

First
Last
Spirit
Matter

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Unity
Whole
One
Individual
Self
“I”
Diversity
Part
Many
Collective
Other
“Thou”
This integral opposition or polarity of these concepts needs to be
clearly understood, not as opposed, as classical logic would have it,
or as being set against each other, as political partisanship
demonstrates, but rather as existing through each other. They are
increasing and decreasing not in opposition but in mutual harmony.
The categories of Self and Other, of “I” and “Thou,” are in need of
some further explanation. What is here opposed is not the I of one
person to the Thou of another, but the fact that one person is an I
for her/himself and the same person, at the same time, is a Thou for
all others. The same is true for the Self and the Other. We are
always both. The understanding of this opposite relationship follows
strictly from Bahá’u’lláh’s statement in relation to first and last,
preceding the above quoted section where He says:
For instance, let thine Eminence consider his own self; thou
art first in relation to thy son, last in relation to thy father.
In thine outward appearance, thou tellest of the appearance
of power in the realms of divine creation; in thine inward
being thou revealest the hidden mysteries which are the
divine trust deposited within thee. (SV 26)
This means the same person is First and Last, depending on his
relationship, the same can be applied to all the above opposites. A
person is Spirit, is First, is Whole, is an Individual, is a Unity and a
Self in relation to his/her parts or subordinates, or lower entities or
his family; at the same time he/she is Matter (potential), Last, is Part
of a Collective, is an Other to Many, is Diverse and Different to
Others in relation to all higher units and organizations, as well as to
his family of origin.
It is this writer’s opinion that this relationship of opposites is the
basis of a Bahá’í cosmology, and he has presented a paper on this
topic with the title “True of Thyself”29. This assumption needs
certainly further investigation, but will not be followed up here.
This philosophical understanding of the concrete reality of being
was presented in the last century by a number of European authors,
some of them, which I am familiar with, will be mentioned here:

Law˙-i-Hikmat

•
Vladimir Solov’ev (1853-1900) formulating “Full freedom
of Parts in Perfect Unity of the Whole”
•
Leo Gabriel (Vienna 1902-1987) in his book: Integral
Logic, The Truth of the Whole 1965
•
Romano Guardini (Munich, Germany 1885-1968) in his
book Opposition: an Attempt to a philosophy of the
Living-Concrete
•
Teilhard de Chardin, S.J. (France and China: 1881-1955)
who developed an “Ontology of Unification” according to
Karl Wucherer
•
Karl Rahner, S.J. (Innsbruck, Austria 1904-1984) in his
book: Ontology of the Relationship between the
Individual and the Community, 1960
•
Augustinus Karl Wucherer-Huldenfeld, (Vienna Austria,
born 1929), who stated in the quoted book the “Integral
Opposition
of
Unity
and
Plurality,”
which
is
a
fundamental principle of his philosophy. 30
None of these authors were familiar with the Bahá’í Writings,31
they do not mention these writings and do not get their
understanding directly from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. And yet,
they live and philosophize in the shade of this Revelation, they are,
as stated above, under the influence of this “Most Potent
Revelation.” It needs to be noted here that the four last of these
authors are Catholic theologians, and the first two are philosophers
from Catholic or Orthodox background. Their understanding of the
relationship between the one and the many, the integral opposition
of these concepts of unity and plurality, makes it easier for us to
understand the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. Here the circle of the
Progressive Theology closes in a new and better comprehension of
the Revelation.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has elucidated this same relationship between the
part and the whole. (Note that for increased clarity these verses are
displayed here different from the authorized English translation,
where the whole section forms one paragraph.)
Consider; we plant a seed. A complete and perfect tree
appears from it, and from each seed of this tree another
tree can be produced.
Therefore the part is expressive of the whole, for this seed
was a part of the tree, but therein potentially was the whole
tree.
So each one of us may become expressive or representative
of all the bounties of life to mankind.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

This is the unity of the world of humanity.
This is the bestowal of God.
This is the felicity of the human world and
This is the manifestation of the divine favor. (BWF 219)
What is so remarkable in this formulation by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is the
fact that the unity of the world of humanity is not something social,
legal, political, or established by a contract, as we would normally
assume. To the contrary, the unity of the world of humanity is a
personal, individual and spiritual matter; it is a gift, a bestowal of
God. It is based on the fact that each one of us must become
expressive or representative of all the bounties of life to mankind!
Only that is the unity of the world of humanity as presented in the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh!
This aspect has not been considered by the theologian and
philosophers mentioned above, it is specific to the Bahá’í
Revelation. Additionally, it brings a new meaning to the integral
philosophy and it predicts that only this understanding and this
evolution can work. The circular process of progressive theology is
here again demonstrated. The philosophical considerations of
modern philosophers and theologians help us to better understand
the meaning of the Revelation. At the same time the Revelation
brings new and unexpected aspects into these philosophies
improving them and giving occasion to further development.
It might be said that this relationship between being the same and
being different is not only a Bahá’í principle, usually formulated as
unity in diversity, but it is also, and this is true of all Bahá’í
principles, a basic structure of the world of existence, of reality and
of human awareness, or reason, which is able to recognize this basic
structure. This ontological structure, these categories of being, could
philosophically only be fully understood after the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh. And this very Revelation is at the same time improving
and completing the philosophical understanding.
Bahá’u’lláh continues in the next sentence to point out the
importance of this understanding. It is a structure which is
specifically announced by Him, when He says “Thus doth the Great
Announcement inform thee about this glorious structure (TB 140).”
Note that Bahá’u’lláh is the Great Announcement and He calls the
structure He describes here “glorious,” which indicates the
importance of this new and revolutionary Revelation.
Again one should note that this structure of reality and its
dynamism has been later somehow recognized independently by
Xavier Zubiri in his book about the Dynamic Structure of Reality,
when he stated:

Law˙-i-Hikmat

In this sense the Universe would be absolutely dynamic in
itself . . . . Now, the various realities that compose the
universe, as I was saying, are not precisely substances, but
structural systems. Reality is composed not so much of
underlying things, but of structural things: of structures.32
It needs to be emphasized that Zubiri was familiar with modern
physics and modern physicists, such as his friend Heisenberg. The
philosophical implications of this “glorious structure”, in relation to
modern physics and cosmology, are certainly another point of
interest, but will not further be pursuit here.
In the next sentence of the Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh indicates as the
origin of this process the “Word of God, which is the Cause of the
entire creation.” (TB 140) In describing the Word of God,
Bahá’u’lláh again describes this Word as being “higher and far
superior to that which the senses can perceive” i.e., to all sense
perception and it is being “sanctified from any property or
substance.” (TB 140-1) This higher and sanctified reality can be called
spiritual and it is clearly distinguished from material property and
substance.
Here we must use the term spiritual not as being opposite, or on
the same level as sense perception, i.e., spiritual is not seen in
contradiction of material, it is the transcendent aspect, the inner
reality of all material existence. One is reminded at the formulation
of Teilhard de Chardin who stated:
It (the spirit) in no way represents some entity which is
independent of matter or antagonistic to it, some force
locked up in, or floating in the physical world. By spirit I
mean ‘the spirit of synthesis and sublimation’, in which is
painfully concentrated, through endless attempts and
setbacks, the potency of unity scattered throughout the
universal multiple: spirit which is born within, and as a
function of matter.33 (Italics in original)
In the Bahá’í Writings, a distinction is made between the seen
and the unseen, or the manifest and the hidden, and this distinction
applies to the whole creation, it is predicated about the world, about
man and about the Manifestations of God.34 While the definition of
Teilhard does not exactly correspond with this understanding, it
comes rather close, considering the general understanding of what is
called spirit or spiritual.
Generally the term ‘spiritual’ is used when indicating another, a
transcendent and immanent, a different reality, which cannot be
placed at the same level of reality as the material, sensible world.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Moreover, in this context spirituality is often commonly seen as
something like matter, but subtler, more “spiritual.”
Contrary to this, the world of existence is here seen as not simply
the world of the sense perception with some added spirituality.
Reality is essentially and primary spiritual, and the material is only
another aspect of this reality. This understanding is certainly new in
Western tradition, even though it was anticipated in the Neo-
platonic philosophic tradition, but it is better compatible with
modern quantum physics and other developments of science.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has expressed this understanding of spirit in the
biblical sense, which will be further discussed in a later section of
this paper in the Chapter on Dialogical Thinking.
Therefore, the proceeding of the human spirits from God
is through emanation. When it is said in the Bible that God
breathed His spirit into man, this spirit is that which, like
the discourse, emanates from the Real Speaker, taking
effect in the reality of man. (SAQ 206)
At former times, when many physical events had no material
explanation they were explained “spiritually”: things like growth,
life, thunder, waves, wind etc. were all ascribed to the gods, were
placed in the spiritual realm, while the gods themselves were
represented in the form of material statues. As soon as modern
science “secularized” these concepts, the world lost its spiritual
values, it was demystified. Eventually, and definitely in the
Darwinian explanation of the development of man, the “spiritual”
was replaced by material causes such as random selection and the
survival of the fittest. That way, spiritual values were reduced to
material things. In other words, the child was thrown out with the
bathwater. The crucial issue is the error of either negating the
existence of the spiritual, or of reducing it to the material or of
treating spirituality like material things, and that is what we will later
call Spiritual Materialism.
The next section is like a commentary on the Prolog of the
Gospel according to John. Bahá’u’lláh describes the Manifestation
of the Word “without any syllable or sound” and describes it as the
“Command of God, which pervadeth all created things.” (TB 141) He
further states:
It has never been withheld from the world of being. It is
God’s all-pervasive grace, from which all grace doth
emanate. It is an entity far removed above all that hath
been and shall be. (TB 141)

Law˙-i-Hikmat

The reality of the Word of God is prior and above all that has been
and shall be, and it is the Word of God, which is the cause of
creation and cause of the continuous existence of the world.
Philosophy and Philosophers
Here Bahá’u’lláh interrupts His explanation and mentions the
unbelievers, who would only misunderstand Him to cavil against
God. He further remarks that because of their inability to attain to
the mysteries of knowledge and wisdom, they rise in protest and
burst in clamor. The reason for this lack of understanding is the fact
that they object only “to that which they comprehend,” (TB 141) and
not to the Revelation, which they do not understand. The only thing
they understand is the material, as one could say in this context.
In other words, they do not accept the Revelation; they don’t
understand it because of their materialism. Consequently, not
understanding the truth presented by the Word of God, they only
object to what they can imagine and they eventually have to
eliminate the gods they have erected in their own imagination. It
could be said that this is a straightforward explanation of modern
atheism. This confrontation with modern atheism, of a Nietzsche,
Freud or Marx, who reject their own construction of the reality of
religion35 and the spiritual, seems to be implied in this statement. As
Bahá’u’lláh says, “Their objections, one and all, turn upon
themselves, and I swear by thy life that they are devoid of
understanding.” (TB 141)
After this paragraph, Bahá’u’lláh returns to the issue of the
beginning and states that “Every thing needs have an origin and
every building a builder” (TB 141) And He indicates that the Word of
God is the Cause which hath preceded the contingent world, as it
was stated in the Prolog of the Gospel according to John. Later He
states that Nature “in its essence is the embodiment of My Name,
the Maker, the Creator” (TB 142) and states further: “Nature is God’s
will,” (TB 142) referring to the primal Will in the Islamic tradition.
God’s Will, God’s Word is the cause of creation and Bahá’u’lláh
remarks that Nature itself is lost in bewilderment before its
Revelation.
Turning to humankind, Bahá’u’lláh now talks about the rebirth
of man (another theme from the Gospel of John) and admonishes
the reader:
Walk thou high above the world of being through the
power of the Most Great Name, that thou mayest become
aware of the immemorial mysteries and be acquainted with
that wherewith no one is acquainted. (TB 142-3)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

This walking in the mystery can be interpreted as the spiritual life of
the believer. Consequently, Bahá’u’lláh admonishes the reader:
“Teach thou the Cause of God.” (TB 143)
After this explanation of the spiritual life, Bahá’u’lláh returns to
the theme of nature, describing it in a materialistic and atheistic
sense and calling it “Nature as it is in itself.” (TB 144) People who
have rejected God, and therefore cling to this concept of nature, are
called “far astray and falling short of the ultimate purpose.” (TB 144)
In the following Bahá’u’lláh then explains:
When the eyes of the people of the East were captivated
by the arts and wonders of the West, they roved distraught
in the wilderness of material causes, oblivious of the One
Who is the Causer of Causes, and the Sustainer thereof.
(TB 144)
The arts and wonders of the West are technology and scientific
progress, all based on the understanding of material causes. The
West has by and large forgotten “the One Who is the Causer of
Causes.” In a similar way the idea of God as the Causer of Causes
was expressed by Teilhard de Chardin, the French Jesuit, who
formulated it differently, stating two generations later: “Properly
speaking, God does not make: He makes things make themselves.”36
(Italics in the original) In other words God is not a material cause in
this world; He is the Causer of these Causes. The theological
implications of this statement, and how it is an expression of the
fact that God is beyond any human understanding and has no causal
connection with the created world, is here assumed and will not be
followed up in this paper.
After this declaration, Bahá’u’lláh turns to the core message of
this Tablet, stating
Now We have, for the sake of God, the Lord of Names, set
Ourself the task of mentioning in this Tablet some
accounts of the sages, that the eyes of the people may be
opened thereby and that they may become fully assured
that He is in truth the Maker, the Omnipotent, the
Creator, the Originator, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
(TB 144)
The eyes of the people are directed away from “clinging to
Nature as it is in itself,” (TB 144) and are directed toward God,
towards the Word of God, who is the Manifestation of God’s
Names as the Maker, the Omnipotent, the Creator, the Originator.
Here follows a description of philosophy and of contemporary
men of learning. Bahá’u’lláh clearly makes two important statements
in this paragraph:

Law˙-i-Hikmat

Most of the modern knowledge has been acquired from
the sages of the past, for it is they who have laid the
foundation of philosophy, reared its structure and
reinforced its pillars.
. . . The sages aforetime acquired their knowledge from the
Prophets, inasmuch as the latter were the exponents of
divine philosophy and the Revealers of heavenly mysteries.
(TB 144-5)
In order to prove His point, He states in the next paragraph that
Empedocles was a contemporary of David while Pythagoras lived in
the days of Salomon. (TB 145) This statement has been interpreted by
historians that Bahá’u’lláh is affirming that there was a material, a
physical and literal connection between these philosopher and
Prophets. This supposition was developed by Peter Terry.37
There are two issues related to this statement. Bahá’u’lláh
distinguishes between the Manifestation and the secondary prophets
who depend on the Manifestation, such Salomon and David, when
He states about the Manifestations of God:
Every one of them is a mirror of God, reflecting naught
else but His Self, His Beauty, His Might and Glory, if ye
will understand. All else besides them are to be regarded as
mirrors capable of reflecting the
glory of these
Manifestations Who are themselves the Primary Mirrors of
the Divine Being, if ye be not devoid of understanding.
(GWB 73)
The question is, did Bahá’u’lláh state in this sentence only a
historical fact or did He imply more than that?
The first things to note is that neither David nor Salomon are
independent Manifestations of God; their prophesies are derived
from Moses, who is seen in the Bahá’í Faith as the Manifestation of
Israel, receiving the Revelation from God. All following prophets of
the Old Testament are secondary messengers of God, and are
dependent on the original Prophesy of Moses.38 Here they are
described as contemporary of these philosophers, as living at the
same time and receiving the Revelation of Moses through David
and Solomon, i.e., the philosophers receiving the essence and
fundamentals from the prophets. As we will see later, it is the power
of the Manifestation, who directs and influences the true
philosophers, either through direct contact or through the spiritual
influence of every new Revelation.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains the difference of influence or emanation
of spirituality independent from physical contact on the example of
the Apostles: Judas was physically in the presence of Christ, but Paul

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

never had contact with Christ during his earthly mission, and yet
Paul was preaching the Gospel of Christ. (Rom 15:19 and 1 Cor 9:18)
Physical nearness or remoteness is of no importance; the
essential fact is the spiritual affinity and ideal nearness.
Judas Iscariot was for a long time favored in the holy court
of His Holiness Christ, yet he was entirely far and remote;
while Paul, the apostle, was in close embrace with His
Holiness. (TAB 719)
The following statement of Bahá’u’lláh needs to be understood
in the same way of spiritual affinity and ideal nearness of the
philosophers to the Prophets. This influence is here called emanation.
The essence and the fundamentals of philosophy have
emanated from the Prophets. (TB 145)
Additionally, in the next sentence Bahá’u’lláh gives us the reason
why this statement creates confusion and misunderstandings. He
appears to say that the issue is clear but people differ and
misunderstand His statement:
That the people differ concerning the inner meanings and
mysteries thereof is to be attributed to the divergence of
their views and minds. (TB 145)
From this quote it seems to be not totally clear what is actually
meant here; does Bahá’u’lláh speak primarily of the essence and the
fundamentals of philosophy or does He speak of the way the
philosophers have learned from the prophets? Again, a careful
reading of the next section gives us the answer.
Bahá’u’lláh reports a case where an inspired Prophet made a
spiritual statement that was then thoroughly misunderstood in a
material or literal way.
He exclaimed: ‘Lo! All are filled with the Spirit.’ From
among the people there was he who held fast unto this
statement and, actuated by his own fancies, conceived the
idea that the spirit literally penetrateth or entereth into the
body, and through lengthily expositions he advanced proof
to vindicate this concept; and groups of people followed in
his footsteps. (TB 145)
So it is not the actual hearing of the message but the way it is heard,
spiritually or literally that makes the difference in understanding.
Bahá’u’lláh even adds that He could give detailed account
thereof, but feels that this would depart from the main theme. It
appears that in this context He has clearly pointed out that spiritual
statements cannot be interpreted in a material way, cannot be

Law˙-i-Hikmat

understood with the means of material methods of knowing or
methods of science, even of Western historical science.
It could be concluded that the important fact is not if the
message is heard literally or not; the important fact is the spiritual
affinity or understanding of the one who hears the message, either
physically or spiritually, which makes the difference. In either case,
the fundamentals of philosophy emanate from the prophet, as
Bahá’u’lláh stated above.
One could also say that there are two different ways of thinking
as Teilhard de Chardin has pointed out:
However, it is just at this point, in fact, that we meet an
initial split in the thinking mass of mankind. . . .
Beneath an infinite number of secondary differentiation,
caused by the diversity of social interests, of scientific
investigation or religious faith, there are basically two types
of minds, and only two: those who do not go beyond (and
see no need to go beyond) perception of the multiple —
however interlinked in itself the multiple may appear to be
— and those for whom perception of this same multiple is
necessarily completed in some unity. There are only, in fact,
pluralists and monists: those who do not see, and those who
do.39
Bahá’u’lláh speaks of inspired speech and literal interpretation.
He clearly points out the difference between these two ways of
thinking, a difference based on the acknowledgment of the Word
of God, of the Manifestations and of the fact of Creation and
Revelation.
The other way of thinking is described as the Western way, which
“roved distraught in the wilderness of material causes oblivious of
the One Who is the Causer of Causes.” (TB 144) Teilhard’s
formulation of thinking in the perception of the multiple versus
thinking of the same multiple as “completed in some unity” comes
close to this understanding of Bahá’u’lláh. This should not be
surprising when we consider that Teilhard sees the goal of creation
in the point Omega, which is the return of Christ, an independent
Manifestation of God in Bahá’í understanding. Therefore, one can
conclude as well that Teilhard’s philosophical understanding is based
on a Prophet, i.e. on the “Universal” or “Cosmic Christ”40.
The process of seeing the spiritual in material and literal ways is
described in the concept of spiritual materialism. Actually, the
concept of spiritual materialism goes even farther, because spiritual
materialism describes a philosophical view that attempts to conquer

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

and manipulate spirituality in material ways. In the following, this
term will be further explained.
Spiritual Materialism
Spiritual Materialism is a new term that was introduced by Toegel
in his dissertation about transpersonal psychology in general and
about Ken Wilber specifically, among others. He uses this term
mentioned in the title of a book by Chögyam Trungpa,41 in a very
specific sense and defines it the following way.
Spiritual Materialism is a specific spiritual attitude, which
approaches the transcendental aspect of reality basically as
if it was material.42
Following this definition Toegel describes the basis of this
worldview, stating:
The basic materialistic attitude started from the idea that
everything, which is not specifically human, and sometimes
even that, can be grasped which concepts of the material
world. From this results a specific demeanor that is
supported by the superiority of the circumstances and the
physical world. This attitude understands humans, their
thinking and understanding as being elevated above all
levels of reality. The universe might be infinitely large, but
the investigating mind is unquestionably above it. Respect
or humility towards the unknown is totally unknown in this
way of thinking.
If this attitude is directed towards the transcendental area,
then they will research it in the same way the material area
is researched. This attitude will make one “travel” in it, will
make a “cartographic picture” of it, will even “conquer” it
and will try to “possess” it. Moreover, they will attempt to
subdue this area with the same tools and methods that are
successful in the physical world.
In this attempt, modern science plays a very specific role.
In the perception of humanity, the idea of science has
already developed “religious” dimensions. If it is said today
that something is scientifically proven, than this statement
will satisfy thinking and feeling at least as well, as in the
olden days the statement “Roma locuta, causa finita”43
Therefore, what seems to be more appropriate, then using
this fountain of truth and knowledge, this collective
consciousness, in order to research the transcendal aspect
of reality as well?44

Law˙-i-Hikmat

This modern attempt to not only understand the spiritual, but to
try to conquer and use it has been alluded to by Bahá’u’lláh in the
Tablet of Wisdom, where He stated:
The essence and the fundamentals of philosophy have
emanated from the Prophets. That the people differ
concerning the inner meanings and mysteries thereof is to
be attributed to the divergence of their views and minds.
(TB 145)
It is crucial to understand this sentence right. It is not likely that the
meaning of this sentence is that we always could follow a literary
trace from the Prophet’s writings to the statements of specific
philosophers. There might not be any historical connection between
the Prophets and the philosophers, but Bahá’u’lláh still claims that
the essence and fundamentals of philosophy have emanated from
the Prophets. By ‘emanate’ we have to understand a spiritual
causation, which in the Writing is usually explained by the
comparison with the rays of light emanating from the sun.
The assumption in this comparison is the fact that the rays come
from the sun but are not diminishing the sun. This may not be
correct physically, but this is the common-sense understanding from
which this attribution is made. The essence and fundamentals of
philosophy come from the prophets like the rays come from the sun,
and the connection is not necessarily a physical, causal or literal but a
spiritual relationship. This is explained by Bahá’u’lláh in the next
passage of this paragraph, which was mentioned before and is here
reprinted in its entirety,
We would fain recount to thee the following: One of the
Prophets once was communicating to his people that with
which the Omnipotent Lord had inspired Him. Truly, thy
Lord is the Inspirer, the Gracious, the Exalted. When the
fountain of wisdom and eloquence gushed forth from the
wellspring of His utterance and the wine of divine
knowledge inebriated those who had sought His threshold,
He exclaimed: 'Lo! All are filled with the Spirit.' From
among the people there was he who held fast unto this
statement and, actuated by his own fancies, conceived the
idea that the spirit literally penetrateth or entereth into the
body, and through lengthy expositions he advanced proofs
to vindicate this concept; and groups of people followed in
his footsteps. To mention their names at this point, or to
give thee a detailed account thereof, would lead to
prolixity, and would depart from the main theme. Verily,
thy Lord is the All-Wise, the All-Knowing. There was also
he who partook of the choice wine whose seal had been

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

removed by the Key of the Tongue of Him Who is the
Revealer of the Verses of thy Lord, the Gracious, the Most
Generous. (TB 145-6)
This paragraph clearly describes what was described as spiritual
materialism, as Bahá’u’lláh points out that this ‘philosopher’ took
that spiritual statement literally and described the spiritual
experience of being filled with the Spirit in a physical or
materialistic relationship so that the spirit penetrated or entered into
the physical body. Bahá’u’lláh then points out that this
“philosopher” would describe this process in detailed account
thereof and would find many followers.
Referring to the idea that spiritual materialism tries to conquer
and manipulate spirituality in a materialistic way describes as well the
method of some Sufis and other Mystics, who felt that their
methods of meditation and their mystical experiences are the path to
God and are in no need of the prophets. This view was contradicted
by Bahá’u’lláh in the Seven Valleys when He said about the Sufis:
They who soar in the heaven of singleness and reach to the
sea of the Absolute, reckon this city — which is the station
of life in God — as the furthermost state of mystic
knowers, and the farthest homeland of the lovers. But to
this evanescent One of the mystic ocean, this station is the
first gate of the heart's citadel, that is, man's first entrance
to the city of the heart; and the heart is endowed with four
stages, which would be recounted should a kindred soul be
found. (SV 40)
Bahá’u’lláh sets His understanding apart from the traditional
Sufi idea of being able to reach God and indicates that all of this
“spiritual” effort does only bring the soul to the city of heart, which
is the Manifestation.45
It should be noted here that the surprising success of Ken
Wilber’s integral philosophy, besides its many interesting and
exciting aspects, can be explained by a similar understanding of the
mystical tradition, as Toegel has pointed out.46 Modern man, who
basically thinks in materialistic ways, is given in Wilber’s philosophy
the ability to belong to the elite and to a new and higher level of
being.
Man can improve himself and mankind through spiritual
techniques that can be scientifically studied and this possibility, as
presented by Wilber, is certainly seductive. Wilber’s extension of
modern developmental psychology into the future improvement of
the human condition through a mystical technology is expressed in
the statement:

Law˙-i-Hikmat

And every I becomes a God, and every WE becomes God’s
sincerest worship, and every IT becomes God’s temple47.
Wilber presents a Promethean, Mystical Technology and
Pantheism for postmodern humanity. This ambitious program needs
to be pointed out; nevertheless, Wilber summarizes modern
developmental psychology in a very comprehensive way and does
clarify many basic and valuable philosophical principles, certainly
contributing to the advancement of philosophy today. This must not
be overlooked, when the shortcomings of his philosophy are
criticized and his theological arguments are refuted.
Contrary to this vain imagining of a direct mystical access to God
through philosophy and meditation, Bahá’u’lláh states:
Verily, the philosophers have not denied the Ancient of
Days. Most of them passed away, deploring their failure to
fathom His mystery, even as some of them have testified.
Verily, thy Lord is the Adviser, the All-Informed. (TB 146)
Then Bahá’u’lláh describes several philosophers starting with
Hippocrates, “who believed in God” (TB 145), and Socrates, whom
He praises “as indeed wise, accomplished and righteous.” (TB 145) He
describes Socrates’ message:
He dissuaded men from worshipping idols and taught them
the way of God, the Lord of Mercy, until the ignorant rose
up against him. They arrested him and put him to death in
prison. (TB 146)
Following this description, He mentions Plato and Aristotle, stating:
After Socrates came the divine Plato who was a pupil of
the former and occupied the chair of philosophy as his
successor. He acknowledged his belief in God and in His
signs, which pervade all that hath been and shall be. Then
came Aristotle, the well-known man of knowledge. He it is
who discovered the power of gaseous matter. These men
who stand out as leaders of the people and are pre-eminent
among them, one and all acknowledged their belief in the
immortal Being Who holdeth in His grasp the reins of all
sciences. (TB 146)
After that, Bahá’u’lláh describes the philosopher Balinus, who
praises God as the Creator and who follows the “hermeneutic
writings” originated by “the first person who devoted himself to
philosophy.48 (TB 148) This appears to be a reference to the origin of
philosophy, indicating that the first philosophers established their
knowledge on the acknowledgement of God, the Creator. Next,
Bahá’u’lláh describes the process of inspiration that allows Him to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

read books that appear to Him “in the form of a Tablet.” (TB 149)
This interesting fact will not be followed up here.
Bahá’u’lláh mentions another remarkable fact. He states that the
Lord, the “All-Wise,” does distribute the knowledge to different
lands, saying “Thus do We bestow and withdraw, Verily the Lord is
He who giveth and divesteth, the Mighty, the Powerful.” (TB 150)
He presents as an example the history of Greek philosophy:
Consider Greece. We made it a Seat of Wisdom for a
prolonged period. However, when the appointed hour
struck, its throne was subverted, its tongue ceased to speak,
its light grew dim and its banner was hauled down. Thus do
We bestow and withdraw. Verily thy Lord is He Who
giveth and divesteth, the Mighty, the Powerful. (TB 150)
It is not only true that “the essence and the fundamentals of
philosophy have emanated from the prophets,” (TB 145) as
Bahá’u’lláh has stated above, it is also true that the place and the
time frame in which philosophy is preeminent in a country is
determined by the Prophets, by God. Obviously, this is not a
scientifically provable fact, this is not something that historians can
research and find evidence for in a scientific investigation. It is
rather a fact of Revelation, of Faith and of acknowledging the
station of the Manifestation and the fact that God’s wisdom and
providence is guiding this world. Without this religious truth and
believe, the statement simply makes no sense.
This fact can be described in the following example. If we find in
nature something, let’s say an unusual rock formation or
interestingly looking piece of wood, of which we do not know if it
is a product of human creation or if it is something that comes out
of “nature as it is,” we would not be able to distinguish the
difference easily. Even a detailed analysis will not always make it
clear what it is, unless we find signs and marks of human activity on
this piece of nature. If the assumed human producers of this piece
of evidence were sophisticated in hiding their handiwork, we might
never be able to prove scientifically how this product was made or
how it did develop. On the other hand, if we are told by a
trustworthy witness that it is a human creation, we most likely could
interpret the marks and find it possible, if not most likely that this is
a human creation.
In other words, the scientific inquiry would follow the testimony
and therefore only reinforce the known facts, but not prove them.
In the same fashion, scientific and historical investigation can follow
the truth of a Revelation, reinforce scientifically and historically its
truth, without being able to prove it independently. This is, as a
matter of fact, the scope and object of the present investigation.

Law˙-i-Hikmat

Considering that God, the Knower, the Maker and the Creator
has created this world, and that His marks are the most hidden of
the hidden, they only become the most manifest of the manifest if
we trust the witness to the fact of creation. We are, in so many
words, reaching the limits of any scientific or human investigation.
No spiritual materialism will prove anything here. It is the
acceptance of the truth of the Prophet which will answer this
question. Even philosophy cannot penetrate this veil, unless man
assumes hypocritically that his reason and intellect is the final and
only way to find the truth.
Dialogical Thinking
In this perspective, the new dialogic thinking can provide the
philosophical bridge to understand the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.
Bernhard Casper describes in his book “The Dialogical Thinking”49
the following three thinkers: Franz Rosenzweig, Ferdinand Ebner,
and Martin Buber. Unfortunately, only some works of Buber have
been translated into English50. It has to be noted that Rosenzweig
and Buber are from a Jewish background, Ebner was Catholic.
Thinking in the dialogical sense is in opposition to the Cartesian
“I think,” (cogito) which was the historical basis of modern thinking
and modern science, and which can be called substantial thinking.51
According to Ebner this kind of thinking is caused by the “Solitude
of the I” (Ich-Einsamkeit, a concept coined by Ferdinand Ebner,
following Kierkegaard) as well as by the Western individualism or
thinking from Descartes’ individually based “cogito, I think.” This
substantial thinking, which is expressed in the third person, he, she
or it, and relates to things, describes things and is therefore the
legitimate way of thinking of modern science and physical causality.
Yet it is inappropriate when used in terms of personal thinking. As a
matter of fact, in every day language we find it impolite and rather
offending when somebody speaks about a present person in the third
person i.e., speaks about him or her when they are present. In proper
speech we use either the name or the personal pronoun “you” and
always speak to the person and not about him or her, as if they were
not present.
Ferdinand Ebner builds his philosophical system on four basic
thoughts, which will be presented here52:
1. Human existence basically has spiritual meaning, i.e., man is
spiritual because he is fundamentally designed towards
something spiritual outside of him, through which and in
which he actually exists. The I is constituted by the relation to
the Thou.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

2. How does this become apparent? The expression of the
spiritual existence of man is the fact that man is a speaking
being. This is objectively demonstrable.
3. Therefore, the thought must be contemplated that this “I —
Thou” relationship is given (a) through the Word, (b) in the
Word, and (c) as Word.
4. That means, this relationship exists in the actuality of the
spoken word, in the situation of being spoken to, which is in
Talk, in Dialogue.
When I speak to you, I constitute myself as a spiritual being that
is able to communicate with you, (or Thou; this singular term is
preferred as it is not a polite plural which ‘you’ is in the English
language). And both understand themselves and each other, as
spiritual beings; this relationship is therefore the origin of human
spirituality. Then again, the “I” neither creates the “Thou” nor the
“Thou” the “I”. This spirituality is only possible because the eternal
Thou, the Creator, has given the Word to man. Therefore, when we
speak to the eternal Thou, that is when we pray to God, we speak
from the human spirituality in the spirituality of Faith, as ’Abdu’l-
Bahá explains:
The human spirit which distinguishes man from the animal
is the rational soul, and these two names — the human spirit
and the rational soul — designate one thing. This spirit,
which in the terminology of the philosophers is the rational
soul, embraces all beings, and as far as human ability
permits discovers the realities of things and becomes
cognizant of their peculiarities and effects, and of the
qualities and properties of beings. But the human spirit,
unless assisted by the spirit of faith, does not become
acquainted with the divine secrets and the heavenly
realities. It is like a mirror which, although clear, polished
and brilliant, is still in need of light. Until a ray of the sun
reflects upon it, it cannot discover the heavenly secrets.
(SAQ 208-9)
From this “I — Thou” relationship and its origin in the relationship
with the human I to the Creator, Ebner finds his way to the Word
of God that was in the beginning with God, as stated in the Prolog
of John’s Gospel.
Several conclusions must be drawn from this thought, which is the
basis of every understanding of man as a spiritual being. Ebner gives
it a most important place in understanding of man, when he writes:
It became clear to me what it means that man is the only
speaking creature that he is in the middle of a mute world

Law˙-i-Hikmat

the only one, who ‘has the word.’ It became clear to me
that man is through the word, what he is, a human being.
That in the word is the key to his spiritual life.
This basic thought is essentially a ‘revolutionary’ thought,
it is the most revolutionary thought, humankind will ever
think. But this thought is not from me, and from whom it
is, it is not only a thought, but a life: ‘The Life’.
In the last word, Ebner refers to the Prolog of the Gospel of John,
(1-5) where it is said:
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with
God, and the Word was God. The same was in the
beginning with God. All things were made by him; and
without him was not any thing made that was made. In him
was life; and the life was the light of men. And the light
shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not.
It needs to be noted here that Ebner’s concept of the word as key
of spiritual life has been expressed by Bahá’u’lláh a century before,
when He said:
The Word is the master key for the whole world, inasmuch
as through its potency the doors of the hearts of men,
which in reality are the doors of heaven, are unlocked. No
sooner had but a glimmer of its effulgent splendour shone
forth upon the mirror of love than the blessed word 'I am
the Best-Beloved' was reflected therein. It is an ocean
inexhaustible in riches, comprehending all things. Every
thing which can be perceived is but an emanation
therefrom. (TB 173, emphasis added)
Ebner developed this relationship of man, who has the word,
with the Word that was in the beginning and was the light of men in
many of his fragments. Human spirituality is based on this fact and
founded in the Word of God.
Bahá’u’lláh clearly states that all knowledge of God is the
knowledge of Him, the Manifestation of God, and that we have to
look at Him in His Words and in His Writings, not with any other
eyes or understanding, i.e., it is a personal knowledge gained in
accepting the person of the Manifestation in word and deed.
If it be your wish, O people, to know God and to discover
the greatness of His might, look, then, upon Me with Mine
own eyes, and not with the eyes of any one besides Me.
(GWB 272)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

The human spirit is, therefore, based on the “I — Thou” relationship,
which is the starting point of any philosophizing. It needs to be
noted that in this relationship, both the human I and the Thou are
equal, there is no prevalence of the active over the passive, of the
form over matter, of male over female, as in the perennial Philo-
sophy; the “I” can only be in dialogue if there is a “Thou”, and vice versa.
Following Ebner’s thoughts this writer would like to add these
considerations. From this relationship one must understand the
equality of man and women, which is the life giving “I” — “Thou”
relationship, on which the physical unity of mankind is based. In all
previous philosophical and biological understanding man was the
active and woman was only the receiver, and these two were never
equal. Aristotle has stated that clearly and it is still an understanding
lurking in the psychological underground of our culture. Aristotle's
main thrust was to explain the nature of things as they are seen to
be. From the subject and low status of women he deduced their
inferiority by nature. Caroline Whitbeck53 stated:
The reason for women's inferiority lies in a defect.
“Women are defective by nature” because they cannot
reproduce semen which contains a full human being. When
a man and a woman have intercourse, the man supplies the
substance of a human being (the soul, i.e. the form), the
woman only the nourishment (the matter).
It must be remembered that Bahá’u’lláh clearly states the equality
of both, of form and matter or of the active and the passive
principle of being, whom He calls different and the same, when He
said:
That which hath been in existence had existed before, but not
in the form thou seest today. The world of existence came
into being through the heat generated from the interaction
between the active force and that which is its recipient.
These two are the same, yet they are different. (TB 140)
It is interesting to note that the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh
integrates many concepts and ideas of previous philosophies, but
does this in a totally new way, creating a perspective that could not
be seen before. This new perspective has found, at least in this
writer’s opinion, already some reflections in the philosophers who
have lived since, even though they might never have heard the name
of Bahá’u’lláh. This obviously is only the beginning of a process that
will last a thousand years at least, as was predicted by Bahá’u’lláh.
The new dialogical thinking concludes in the fact that neither the
human I nor the human Thou is able to fundamentally establish this
relationship, which constitutes human spirituality, so it must have

Law˙-i-Hikmat

been established originally by an eternal Thou, by the Divine Word,
by the Creation of God. Consequently, Ferdinand Ebner54 refers to
the Prologue of the Gospel of John, to bring his philosophical
thinking about the Word, and about man, as being given the word,
to its apex.55
The following example should illuminate this relationship and the
astounding parallels between the Bahá’í Revelation and another
dialogical thinker, Rosenzweig.
Compare this sentence from the Selections from the Writings of
the Báb (1819-1850):
I have known Thee by Thy making known unto me that
Thou art unknowable to anyone save Thyself. (SWB 196)
with this statement of Franz Rosenzweig (1886-1929):
Of God we know nothing.
Yet, This Not-Knowing is Not-Knowing of God,
As such, this is the beginning of our Knowing of Him.56
Referring to the word “the Fashioner” in the Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh
continues to explain that “a true philosopher would never deny God
nor His evidences, rather would He acknowledge His glory and
overpowering majesty which overshadow all created things.”
He continues to explain that the true philosopher is not thinking
independently and as an individual as stated in the “I think,
therefore I am” proposition of Descartes, but that such a
philosopher is aided and loved by the Prophet, indicating that He,
Bahá’u’lláh, in His Revelation provides the essence and fundament
of any true philosophy of today.
Verily We love those men of knowledge who have brought
to light such things as promote the best interests of humanity,
and We aided them through the potency of Our behest, for
well are We able to achieve Our purpose. (TB 150)
What was stated above about the relationship between
philosophy and Revelation is here repeated and applied to what
Bahá’u’lláh calls the “true philosopher”. According to Bahá’u’lláh, a
“true philosopher would never deny God” and “promote the best
interest of humanity.” Additionally, we can recognize true
philosophers if we can detect in their philosophy the fact that they
were loved and aided by Bahá’u’lláh. This love and aid can be
recognized by the Bahá’í scholars insofar as the findings of such a
true philosopher, either in part or in total, demonstrate analogies and
similarities to the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

It is the opinion of this writer, that the philosophers quoted in
this paper are falling into these categories of “true philosophers”
according to Bahá’u’lláh. This seems true for a number of modern
philosophers such as Teilhard de Chardin Ferdinand Ebner, Martin
Buber and certainly others as well.57
This statement again points to the spiritual connection of
philosophy with the Revelation of the Prophet and is based on the
potency of the Revelation and not necessarily on any literal con-
nection or reference. So the statement mentioned above about the
essence and fundamentals of philosophy is here based on the potency
of the Revelation and the Purpose of the Manifestation of God.
In His final section of the Tablet Bahá’u’lláh again addresses
Nabil, stating that this Tablet is an irrefutable and weighty
exposition:
My Nabil! Let nothing grieve thee, rather rejoice with
exceeding gladness inasmuch as I have mentioned thy
name, have turned My heart and My face towards thee and
have conversed with thee through this irrefutable and
weighty exposition. Ponder in thy heart upon the tribu-
lations I have sustained, the imprisonment and the captivity
I have endured, the sufferings that have befallen Me and
the accusations that the people have levelled against Me.
Behold, they are truly wrapped in a grievous veil. (TB 151)
Concluding this Tablet Bahá’u’lláh reveals a prayer summarizing all
the blessings of the Revelation and He let the faithful say:
Make me as a lamp shining throughout Thy lands that
those in whose hearts the light of Thy knowledge gloweth
and the yearning for Thy love lingereth may be guided by
its radiance. (TB 151)
Conclusions
Some very tentative and preliminary conclusions are drawn from
this paper and only sketched out here for further consideration,
following the chapters of this paper.
1) Progressive Theology
a) The value of this concept for a Bahá’í theology needs to be
further investigated and developed, especially in comparison
with other scriptural texts,
2) Consequences of Philosophical Error
a) This consideration is based on a verse of this tablet and needs
to be followed up throughout the Bahá’í Scripture. Any

Law˙-i-Hikmat

philosophical school of thought that denies a hierarchical
value system and that denies the difference between good
and bad, seems to undermine civilization and therefore
would be unacceptable for the consideration in the Bahá’í
understanding of philosophy.
3) Form and Matter
a) The way how oppositional concepts are seen in the concrete
world is of importance as the consequences of different
philosophical solutions have demonstrable consequences for
civilization. The logic of this new understanding needs to be
developed and added to the traditional logical systems. The
concept of Unity in Diversity can function as the watchword
of this new conceptualization of reality.
4) Philosophy and Philosophers
a) Bahá’u’lláh has stated clearly the criteria of a true philosopher.
b) Two philosophical criteria
i) True philosophers will never deny God the Creator
ii) True philosophers will promote the best interest of
Humanity
c) Two theological criteria
i) True philosophers are loved by the Manifestation of God
ii) True philosophers are aided through the potency of the
Manifestation
d) In any evaluation of a philosopher or of any philosophical
system these criteria can be applied and will give a sure footing
for their evaluation. This applies to a whole system or an
independent part of a philosophical system. It applies to all
philosophers disregarding their specific religious affiliation.
5) Spiritual Materialism
a) This concept seems to be the touchstone of the evaluation of
modern thinkers.
b) Any thinking that does make the human reason the “measure
of all things” and does not accept anything that is above, or
beyond, transcendent or hidden, will have missed the true
human condition and therefore will have detrimental
consequences, even if it is presented with a high level of
“spirituality”.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

c) The understanding of spirituality needs to be further
researched in the writings of the Bahá’í Faith, the system of
dialogical thinking may be of assistance in this effort.
6) Dialogical Thinking
a) This new understanding of human spirituality in the Word
of God can be used to understand the seeming contradiction
in the Bahá’í Revelation, where it is said that man is created
to know God but yet God is defined as unknowable. The
difference between substantial or third person understanding
and personal or first and second person communication
needs to be developed and might be useful in better
understanding the solution to the above-mentioned apparent
contradiction. The fact that all knowledge of God is
manifest in God’s Prophets, i.e. in a personal way and not in
abstract and substantial thought processes seems to indicate
the correctness of this distinction.
7) Final Thoughts
a) The most important conclusion of this paper is the
obligation to look at modern philosophy and distinguish
between the findings and statements of modern
philosophers. There are philosophies that are words
leading to words and thereby satisfying only the
intellectual mind in a Spiritual Materialism dealing only
with “that which they comprehend”.
b) On the other hand, there are modern philosophers and
theologians, philosophical ideas and visions of contemp-
orary thinking, which are based on the essence and the
fundamentals that have been revealed by and emanate
from the Prophets of the past and by the Prophets of
today, the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. And there are certainly
some philosophers who are in the middle, having only
partially recognized this spirit of the Prophet.
c) In every case it is the task of the student of Bahá’í
theology to use discrimination and apply it according to
the Pauline statement: “Prove all things; hold fast that
which is good.”58
d) The same truth has been expressed in the Tablet of
Wisdom:
e) Forsake all evil and hold fast that which is good. (TB
138)
f) Establish the Word of Truth with eloquence and
Wisdom (TB 139)

Law˙-i-Hikmat

g)  . . . When no man knoweth how to discern light and
darkness or to distinguish guidance from error. (TB 138)

NOTES
1 All quotes from Bahá’í Writings are from the “Ocean Personal
Research Library” available at bahai-education.org
2 It should be noted that these descriptions of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation
are logically contradictory. Consequently it is called “Bewildering
and Challenging.” The meaning of these contradictions will be
explained later in the paper.
3 The Covenant in the Bahá’í Faith is the adherence of all believers to
the Prophet Founder, Bahá’u’lláh, to His son ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as the
Master, and to His grandson, Shoghi Effendi, as the Guardian of the
Faith, and to the Universal House of Justice. After Shoghi Effendi’s
death the Universal House of Justice was established following the
Instructions of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi. This
sequence was established in Their written testaments and is the
guarantee of the unity of the Bahá’í Faith, which was upheld in spite
of serious challenges.
4 Adib Taherzadeh: The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Volume four, George
Ronald, Oxford, 1987, page 39. Taherzadeh has extracted this quote
from the Tablet Áthár-i-Qalam-i-A’lá, see note 11, on page 447
5 All response to this paper can be made to the author at
waklebel@msn.com and will be received with gratitude
6 This writer is not aware of ever finding this concept of Progressive
Theology in other writings and presents this idea for the first time
in this paper. If this concept has been used before, please give
notice of this fact.
7 Only most recently are we finding out that even basic human
concepts have undergone progressive development throughout
history. The point is made by Mathew D. Lieberman and Naomi I.
Eisenberger in their paper “Conflict and habit: A Social Cognitive
Neuroscience approach to the Self.” (In Psychological Perspective on
Self and Identity, Vol. 4. available online at www.scn.ucla.edu under
rt4053_c004Lieberman.pdf) that the understanding of the self has
made drastic changes during the last few hundred years, talking
about historical changes in self concept formation, p.78. Carl
Zimmer has summarized this new research in Scientific American,
November 2005 p. 93 -101
8 This writer was rather surprised and yet excited by these events and
needed time and consideration to understand their meaning. There
is always the possibility of subjective opinions influencing such
experiences and only a careful comparison with the Writings can
assure their value. Nevertheless, if these experiences are true and
correct they can provide a spiritual nourishment that cannot be
communicated easily, but will promote and assist in further
deepening in the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven


9 The comparison of the progress of civilization and the awakening of
humanity with the flight of an arrow is a picture that is not found
in the Bahá’í Scriptures (as compiled in Ocean). It needs to be noted
that this comparison is presented in the writings of Teilhard de
Chardin, when he describes the evolution of humanity as an arrow
(see La Vision du Passé, Paris 1957, p. 101) and in L’Apparition de
l’Homme, (aris,1956, page 297) where Teilhard compares the goal
directed evolution of humanity with an arrow. A similar use of a
Teilhardian concept was presented by the Universal House of
Justice in the statement “The Promise of World Peace” (Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, Wilmette, 1985), where Teilhard is quoted as a
“Great Thinker” and his term of “the planetarization of mankind” is
directly quoted in that statement.
10 It needs to be noted here that this process is not simple and
unilateral. Peter Terry, in an electronically transmitted comment to
this concept has noted the following: “‘Abdu’l-Bahá reminds us that
after the Manifestation of God departs from this world, during the
interval between His passing and the advent of the next
Manifestation of God, human understanding of His Message
decreases and human beings become increasingly far-fetched in
their doctrinal formulations, resulting in literalism, superstition,
fragmentation
among
believers,
and
exclusion
(sometimes
persecution) of those who have alternate views.” How these two
processes interact and how they are related to each other, especially
in the diverse historical religions, is a question certainly needing
further consideration. It seems to me that it denotes the difference
between the ossification and deterioration of the religion and a
simultaneous progress of humanity. The history of modern times
could certainly be understood that way.
11 See footnote 6
12 According to Adib Taherzadeh (ibid, volume 4 page 33) the Tablet of
Wisdom was addressed to Nabíl-i-Akbar, “a man of great knowledge
and learning” on the occasion of his pilgrimage to ‘Akká.
13 Stephane Courtois et al. in: The Black Book of Communism, Crimes,
Terror,
Repression,
Harvard
University
Press,
Cambridge
Massachusetts, London, England, 1999.
These are the “cold” statistics of the victims of communism as
described in this book on page 4:
U.S.S.R
China
Vietnam
North Korea
Cambodia
20 million deaths
65 million deaths
1 million deaths
2 million deaths
2 million deaths
Eastern
Europe
Latin America
Africa
Afghanistan
1 million deaths
150,000 deaths
1.7 million deaths
1.5 million deaths

14 Adib Taherzadeh comments on this section more extensively, ibid,
pp. 35-39.

Law˙-i-Hikmat


15 The reader is again referred to the lengthy commentary by Adib
Taherzadeh on this topic, ibid. pp.39-46.
16 This preexistence of the world (as stated above: “His creation has ever
existed in His (God’s) shelter”) is usually understood in Neoplatonic
terms by Bahá’í scholars. It is this writer’s opinion that this
understanding has some merits, but is by no means a full
explanation of this view.
17 This term is used by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to indicate the philosophical
tradition originated by Aristotle and Plato: "As for the second
balance, which the Illuminati and the peripatetics (followers of
Aristotle) rely upon, it is the balance of reason (al-mízánu'l-`aql). In
like manner, the other schools of the first philosophers in the
ancient and middle centuries depended upon it. They said that that
which is judged by reason is firmly established, clear and
indubitable, and that there is no doubt or defect either in its
foundations or its outcomes." (Quoted from a paper by Peter Terry,
Bahá’í Epistemology: 'Abdu'l-Bahá, Tablet on the Inmost Heart,
provisional translation by Steven Phelps and William McCants,
March 2000; Persian text in Min Makatib 'Abdu'l-Bahá, pp. 83-86)
18 It is noteworthy that this understanding of heat or energy as being
the element that brings the world of existence together is not unlike
the modern description of the origin of the world. An article by W.
Wayt Gibbs, “Cosmic CATScan” (in Scientific American, August
2005, page 23) states for example: “In the beginning, the universe
was a void full of energy but without form. And so it remained for
millions of years — exactly how long is still a major mystery of
cosmology — until the first stars condensed from the fog of matter
and lit up with a blue nuclear flow.”
19 Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, Towards the Future, Harcourt Brace &
Company, New York, London 1973, page 82
20 This concept has been described by Karl Wucherer-Huldenfeld in the
article “Zur neueren Geschichte des integralen Gegensatzes von
Einheit und Vielheit” (About the newer history of the integral
polarity of unity and plurality) pages 434-445 in Ursprüngliche
Erfahrung und personales Sein, (Original experience and personal
being); Böhlau, Vienna 1997. This polar relationship has been
elaborated in what is called integral philosophy as developed by Leo
Gabriel, Karl Wucherer-Huldenfeld and others in Austria, based on
the view presented by Solovjev et al. Romano Guardini, the
Catholic theologian, has described this polarity in Der Gegensatz,
Versuch zu einer Philosophie des Lebendig-Konreten (Polarity,
Attempt towards a philosophy of the living-concrete) Mainz 1952
21 See below footnote 40 for Zubiri and the concept of “holon” by Ken
Wilber, passim, especially in Integral Psychology, Shambhala, Boston
and London, 2000, page221, note 7
22 Sen McGlinn, Church and State, a postmodern political theology,
published by the author, University of Leiden, the Netherlands;

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven


distributed by Kalimát Press as Volume Nineteen of the series
Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions
23 Mencius, Translated by David Hinton, Counterpoint, Washington,
D.C., 1998, p.52
24 Daniel Bell: The Cultural Contradictions of Capitalism, Twentieth
Anniversary Edition, Basic Books; A Subsidiary of Perseus Books,
L.L.C. New York, 1978, 1996, p. 253
25 Karl Marx, Karl Marx selected writings. Edited by David McLellan,
Oxford University Press, 1977, “The Communist Manifesto”, page
238.
26 Cf. the paper by this writer: “Towards a Criticism of Marx’s Criticism
of Religion in the Bahá’í Faith” Presently evaluated for publication,
available on request at waklebel@msn.com.
27 Sen McGlinn (ibid, p. 255) claims that this concept of unity in
diversity is not a difference in essence but only a superficial
difference like in race relations. He does not appreciate the
statement of Bahá’u’lláh as quoted below, that indicate that this
concept is the basis of the organic unity as described in McGlinn’s
book. Consequently this concept was called by the Guardian a
bedrock of Bahá’í belief and the watchword of the Law of
Bahá’u’lláh. (WOB p. 115 and p. 41 respectively)
28 This verse was the topic of my presentation at Bosch in 2004, under
the title “True of Thyself”, which will be published in Irfan
Magazine.
29 At the Irfan Colloquium May 2004 at Bosch Bahá’í School in
California. Published in Lights of Irfan Book Six
30 The authors mentioned here are from a brief description of this way
of thinking presented by Augustinus Karl Wucherer-Huldenfeld in
Ursprüngliche Erfahrung und personales Sein (Origianl Experience
and Personal Existence) Böhlau Verlag, Wien, Köln, Weimar, 1997,
in “Zur neuern Geschichte des integralen Gegensatzes von Einheit
und Vielheit“ (About the new history of the integral Opposition of
Unity and Plurality)
31 The fact that these authors were not knowledgeable of the Bahá’í
faith at all can be proven in the case of Wucherer Huldenfeld, who
is a personal friend of mine and we studied together theology. Only
recently have I told him about the Bahá’í Faith, many years after he
wrote about this philosophy of “Integral Opposition of Unity and
Plurality,”.
32 The concept of structure was philosophically developed by Xavier
Zubiri in his book Dynamic Structure of Reality, Translated by
Nelson R. Orringer, University of Illinois Press, Urbana and
Chicago, 2003, pages 35 and 82
33 Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, Christianity and Evolution, Harcourt
Brace & Company, New York, London,1996, pp. 107-108
34 See my paper in Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six, ibid.

Law˙-i-Hikmat


35 “The criticism of religion is the presupposition of all criticism.” Karl
Marx, “Towards a Critique of Hegel’s Philosophy of Right” in “Karl
Marx selected writings”. Edited by David McLellan, Oxford
University Press, 1977, page 63
36 In Christianity and Evolution, A Harvest Book, Harcourt Brace &
Company; San Diego, New York, London, 1969, page 28; (Italics in
the original)
37 Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Hikmat of Bahá'u'lláh. by Peter
Terry, Published in Lights of Irfan: Papers Presented at the 'Irfán
Colloquia and Seminars Book 1, pages 121-142, Wilmette, IL: Irfan
Colloquia, 2000
38 Following Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, (SAQ 164) distinguishes as well
between independent prophets and dependent prophets, whom He
calls followers and promoters: “For the independent Prophets are
founders; They establish a new religion and make new creatures of
men; They change the general morals, promote new customs and rules,
renew the cycle and the Law. Their appearance is like the season of
spring, which arrays all earthly beings in a new garment, and gives
them a new life.
With regard to the second sort of Prophets who are followers, these also
promote the Law of God, make known the Religion of God, and
proclaim His word. Of themselves they have no power and might,
except what they receive from the independent Prophets.”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, (‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London, p. 42) stated that even Greek
philosophy is dependent on the Prophets: “God sends Prophets for
the education of the people and the progress of mankind. Each such
Manifestation of God has raised humanity. They serve the whole world
by the bounty of God. The sure proof that they are the Manifestations
of God is in the education and progress of the people. The Jews were
in the lowest condition of ignorance, and captives under Pharaoh
when Moses appeared and raised them to a high state of civilization.
Thus was the reign of Solomon brought about and science and art
were made known to mankind. Even Greek philosophers became
students of Solomon's teaching. Thus was Moses proved to be a
Prophet.” This passage clearly indicates that the teaching of
Solomon, which has even reached the Greek philosophers, did prove
the prophethood of Moses, who was the independent Prophet for
Israel.
39 Teilhard, “How I believe” page 101 in Christianity and Evolution,
Harcourt Brace & Company, San Diego, New York, London 1969,
40 Confer Sion Cowell, The Teilhard Lexicon, Sussex Academic Press,
Brighton, Portland, 2001, pages 27-28 and 30, which concept is as
close to the Bahá’í understanding of the Divine Manifestation as
Teilhard could come.
41 Cutting through Spiritual Materialisms, Shambhala, Boston, 1979
42 Johannes Toegel, Eine Theologie des Zeitgeistes, Darstellung und
Kritik am Beispiel der Transcententalen Psychology (A theology of the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven


spirit of the time, a presentation and critique using the example of
transcendental psychology). PhD Diss. (28,684) Univ. of Vienna,
1991, p. 170. (All quotes from Toegel translated by this writer). Toegel
reports that for three years he had tried the same approach while
living in a cave in Tibet, where he eventually met a true master and
realized that true mystical experiences consist in trust and
acceptance and not in striving to higher transpersonal techniques.
43 Freely translated that means: when the religious authority has
spoken, there is no more discussion and no question.
44 Ibid., page 173
45 The difference between Bahá’u’lláh’s mystical writings and the Sufi
understanding of the mystic travel was clearly pointed out by Nader
Saiedi in Logos and Civilization in the Chapter “Theology or
Revelation and Critique of the Unity of Existence”, (University
Press of Maryland; Maryland, 2000 pages 89-78.) and by Ghasem
Bayat, in the article “A Journey through the Seven Valleys of
Bahá’u’lláh” in Lights of ‘Irfán Book III, Bahá’í National Center,
1233 Central Street, Evanston, IL 60201 USA, passim.
46 Toegel, ibid., pages 344-246
47 Ken Wilber; Sex, Ecology, Spirituality, The Spirit of Evolution,
Chapter: “The Unpacking of God”, page550
48 In a footnote of the edition of the Tablets, the editor refers to
another Tablet of Bahá’í and to the Qur’an, where the origin of
philosophy is described and Iris, or Hermes, and their follower
Balinus is mentioned. It appears that these passages indicate the
origin of philosophy, indicating that these philosophies were based
on the belief in God.
49 This new philosophical thinking was comprehensively described by
Bernhard Casper, Das dialogische Denken. Eine Untersuchung der
religionsphilosophischen Bedeutung Franz Rosenzweigs, Ferdinand
Ebners
und
Martin
Bubers,
(The
dialogical
thinking,
an
investigation of the meaning of Franz Rosenzweig, Ferdinand Ebner
and Martin Buber in the study of a philosophy of religion)
Freiburg/B. 1967.
50 Martin Buber, Between Man and Man, Routledge Classics, London
New York 2002
51 Simon Blackburn, the author of the Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy
has in his book Think (Oxford University Press, Oxford, New York,
1999) described in a very lucid and commonly understandable way
this way of modern thinking. He gives the reader a sense of how “the
great historical figures such as Descartes, Hume, Kant and
Wittgenstein have approached its central themes.” While describing
the classical tradition in philosophy, he does not include
philosophers such as Husserl and Heiddegger in his treatise, and
seems to be coming to conclusion about God and man, more in the
tradition of Bertrand Russell than of the more modern thinkers. He
follows, one could say, the substantial way of thinking.

Law˙-i-Hikmat


52 The brief explanation follows the introductory work to Ferdinand
Ebner’s
thinking
by
Augustinus
Karl
Wucherer-Huldenfeld:
Personales Sein und Word, Einführung in den Grundgedanken
Ferdinand Ebners (Personal Being and Word, Introduction into the
basic principle of the thinking of Ferdinand Ebner); Böhlau, Vienna,
Cologne, Graz 1985; pages. 23-32
53 Caroline Whitbeck, ‘Theories of Sex Difference’, in Gould and
Wartofsky (eds.), Women and Philosophy , New York 1976, pp. 54-
80; M.Maloney, ‘The Arguments for Women's Difference in
Classical Philosophy and Early Christianity’, pp. 41-49.
54 The understanding of Ferdinand Ebner’s philosophy is mainly based
on the studies of Augustinus Karl Wucherer-Huldenfeld, Der
Grundgedanke Ferdinand Ebners,(the basic thought of Ferdinand
Ebner) 78-87; Augustinus Karl Wucherer-Huldenfeld, Personales
Sein und Wort. Einführung in den Grundgedanken Ferdinand
Ebners, Wien-Köln-Graz 985;
55 This relationship is here only briefly indicated and certainly would
need a much longer exposition.
56 Quoted in Bernard Casper ibid., page 92
57 Ian Kluge has made similar connections with the philosophies of
Heidegger, Gabriel Marcel, Teilhard. De Chardin, and Whitehead in
several of his papers. See Ian Kluge, Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial
Reconnaissance; iankluge@netbistro.com,
58 Thessalonians 5:21

Further Explorations in Bahá’í
Ontology
Ian Kluge
Introduction
In this paper we shall continue the survey of Bahá’í ontology
begun in “Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance.”* The
subjects to be covered in this paper are becoming and change;
substance, soul, self and identity; the nature of being and
nothingness; social ontology and dialectic; and the order of
knowledge and the order of being. Though some of these topics
have been touched on in the “Initial Reconnaissance”, we shall
subject them to deeper analysis in order to draw out their more
subtle aspects.
Ontology is the study of being and what it means to say that
something ‘is’ or ‘exists’. As a branch of metaphysics1, the study of
the most general principles of reality, ontology specifically concerns
itself with the most fundamental questions about the nature of
existence and existing things. It focuses on such issues as “why is
there anything at all rather than nothing?”2; what is ‘being’?; how are
‘being’ and ‘becoming’ related? and the relationship between ‘being’
and ‘nothingness’.
The main value of studying Bahá’í ontology lies in the fact that
an ontology operates like a constitution: it is the philosophical frame
of reference or context within which various ideas take on meaning.
Any exposition of the Writings or any Bahá’í-based philosophizing
must be in harmony with this ontological ‘constitution’, or at least,
be neutral and not offend against its general principles. Thus, like
any other constitution, a Bahá’í ontology provides a particular
philosophical identity that distinguishes the Writings from other
sacred books or the foundational books of various philosophies and
ideologies. Knowing this identity lays the foundations for detailed
and in-depth dialogue with religious and secular belief systems from
around the world.
One of the tasks of this paper is to show how the ontology
embedded in the Writings charts a unique course between various
contending philosophical schools.

* “Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance,” in Lights of ‘Irfán
Book Six, 2005.

Bahá’í Ontology


The Ubiquity of Change
The first topic we shall examine is the issue of change. According
to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
Divine and all encompassing Wisdom hath ordained that
motion be an inseparable concomitant of existence,
whether inherently or accidentally, spiritually or materially.3
It should be noted that “motion” in this statement refers not only to
a change in space but also to a change in time, in condition, in
relationship, in appearance, constitution or structure, intensity,
color, size shape — indeed, any kind of attributional or essential
difference between two moments in the existence of an entity. It is
important to note that change does not just refer to the material but
to the spiritual as well. Even our souls are subject to change, as
evident in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that the soul is “in motion and
ever active,” (TAF) something also apparent in the soul’s continued
evolution after death. As well, the doctrine of progressive revelation
points to the fact that change is part of our collective spiritual
existence. The foregoing quote also demonstrate that change is part
of things either “inherently or accidentally.” (TAF) Change that
belongs to something “inherently” belongs to the essence of
something, is necessary part or aspect of its natural constitution in
being the kind of thing it is. Change is, in that sense ‘internal’ to the
thing. Such change is, in the immediate sense, self-caused, though
ultimately, of course, all motion must be traced back to God.
Change and Unchangeable Essences
It might be objected that the concept of inherent change
contradicts ‘Abdul-Bahá’s statement that “It has been proved by
exact science that the essence of things does not change.” (SAQ 100)
However, careful reflection shows that no such contradiction exists.
If change is inherent in all created things, then it is an aspect of the
essence of an entity — and nothing can, therefore, negate the fact of
that change. The entity must change; it cannot not-change because it
requires change to be itself. This constant change is ineradicably part
of its essence. Any living creature is an example of this constancy
through change as it moves from birth through growth to maturity
to decline and death. The moment it ceases changing, it is no longer
what it once was, a living being.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá also says the change can be “accidental.” In
philosophy, this term is used to indicate that something is not
necessarily related to the essence of an entity. For example, having

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

pages is an inherent, essential attribute of a book, but the color of
the pages is accidental — they need not necessarily be white.
However, it is necessary for the pages to be some color. Thus, the
necessity of having some color is essential, but the fact of being
some particular color is accidental. Accidental features and changes
are like the colors of the pages of a book — it is always possible for
an alternative color to be chosen and they do not change one kind of
thing into another kind of thing. A book with white pages is still a
book, even if we change the color of its pages.
For a change to be accidental means that the change is not self-
caused (in the immediate sense), but is externally caused by
something else. The particular change is not necessary but the fact
of some kind of change is, indeed, necessary since everything is in
inter-action with its environment. Such change does not constitute
the nature of the being as it is-in-itself, but does constitute its
nature as it is-with-others, which is to say, how it interacts with
others. These inter-actions constitute an entity’s ‘persona’, which is
relative insofar as it may vary from one kind of inter-action to
another.
Being-with-Others
The development of a ‘persona’ or thing as it with-others is
inevitable because nothing in existence can escape the influence of
others.
For all beings are connected together like a chain; and
reciprocal help, assistance and interaction belonging to the
properties of things are the causes of the existence,
development and growth of created beings. It is confirmed
through evidences and proofs that every being universally
acts upon other beings, either absolutely or through
association. (SAQ 178-9)
It is important to note in this passage that the “help, assistance
and interaction” (SAQ 178-9) refer to the “properties of things”,
(SAQ 178-9) to their attributes and not their essences. These
interactions influence the growth and development of the thing as it
is with-others but they cannot change the essence, which is to say,
they cannot change one kind of thing into another, though, of
course, outward form may be changed as in the case of frogs or
butterflies. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá tells us, “It has been proved by exact
science that the essence of things does not change.” (SAQ 100) From
this it follows that the constant interaction among things does not
alter the essence, or thing as it is in-itself even though such
interaction is required for things to exist. Only their mode of being

Bahá’í Ontology

with-others changes. The teaching that the human soul is immune to
changes caused by illness or disability:
[T]he human spirit is in one condition. It neither becomes
ill from the diseases of the body nor cured by its health; it
does not become sick, nor weak, nor miserable, nor poor,
nor light, nor small — that is to say, it will not be injured
because of the infirmities of the body . . . (SAQ 229)
In other words, it is the body as it is with-others that shows the
attributes of illness not the soul as it is in-itself. We may call this
inviolability the principle of the integrity of essences — a principle to
which there is only one exception, viz. the power of God or the
Manifestation. On this score, the Writings say, for example, “See
how powerful is the influence exerted by the Day-Star of the world
upon the inner essence of all created things!” (SWAB 112) We also
read how “the power of the divine make[s] itself effective and the
breath of the Holy Spirit penetrate[s] the essence of things.” (PUP
110) Finally, Bahá’u’lláh says, that “When He contemplates,
however, the bright effulgences He hath been empowered to
manifest, lo, that self is transfigured before Him into a sovereign
Potency permeating the essence of all things visible and invisible.”
(GWB 102, emphasis added) Only the Divine can access the essence of
things.
The Thing-As-It-Is-In-Itself
What this means, of course, is that the Writings implicitly
recognise the distinction between a thing-as-it-is in itself and a
thing-as-it-is with others, between a thing and its inter-actions. The
importance of this distinction is easy to miss at first glance but we
soon get a sharp awakening we recall that some philosophies deny
the very existence of individuals-as-they-are in themselves and
maintain that the individuals are entirely and essentially constituted
by nothing but their relationships to the rest of the world. Individual
things and humans are simply the nexus of their economic, social or
political relationships, which is to say, are nothing in themselves4
Such philosophies have a deep ontological bias against individuality
— a bias that can have profound, usually negative, social effects
when transferred into practical application as we have seen in the
various forms of 20th Century totalitarianism. The Bahá’í Writings
on the other hand, have an ontological bias in favour of the
independence and integrity of the individual essence which is not
only a real thing in its own right, but is also safe-guarded against
external action from anyone but God or the Manifestation.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

A Middle Path Between Substantialism and
Nonsubstantialism
At this point, it becomes evident that the Bahá’í Writings
promulgate a view of essence — and, by extension, the human self —
that falls between or steers a middle path between substantialist and
non-substantialist views. According to substantialism, things, or
entitative beings are the primary or fundamentally real things, and
that they are autonomous and exist before processes. Processes and
relationships occur between these real beings and that these
ontologically separate, autonomous entities are the source or origin
or ground of all mental or material phenomena. Non-substantialism,
which is most famously represented by Buddhist philosophy, denies
these claims.5 Buddhist philosophy denies the entitative nature of
the “identity or individuality of the self is seen as a dynamic karmic
continuity rather than as an essential ontological substantiality — as
an ongoing process rather than an underlying thing.”6 According to
this view, we must overcome the illusion of permanent entities to
which we can become attached; there is only a series of ‘now’s’ or
moments.7 Applied to humans, this becomes the teaching of
“anatta” or no-self. Supporting these ideas is the doctrine of
dependent origination or dependent arising according to which all
things are interrelated and interdependent, which is to say, all things
exist in relation to each other; all things exist dependent on
determinants; all things have no enduring existence, not
even for a moment; all things have no intrinsic entity; all
things are without First Cause, or Genesis.8
Reflection on this passage calls to mind ‘Abdul-Bahá’s assertion that
all beings are connected together like a chain; and
reciprocal help, assistance and interaction belonging to the
properties of things are the causes of the existence,
development and growth of created beings. (SAQ 178-9)
This passage asserts that “all beings” (SAQ 178-9) depend
immediately on their interactions for their “existence, development
and growth,” (SAQ 178-9) all beings are “interrelated and
interdependent”9 — which is in agreement with Buddhist philosophy.
However, Buddhist philosophy also claims that that things have “no
enduring existence,”10 an idea that bears obvious similarities to
Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that the world of creation is “being renewed
and regenerated at all times.” (TB 141) If things are being
continuously “renewed and regenerated,” it follows that they have
“no enduring existence” in their old forms, which is to say that their
existence is “momentary,”11 and that what we call ‘identity’ is the
linking of these moments “not only in serial order [and] each

Bahá’í Ontology

condition contiguous to the next, but each condition [ ] involved
with the immediate past and present in a mutually penetrative
sense.”12 Close analysis reveals that Bahá’u’lláh’s statement says
much the same thing, albeit in a very concise manner. When things
are “renewed”, the old is reconstituted in a new form, which means
there is continuity not just in serial order but in condition, as the old
is carried forward into or penetrates the new. In other words, entities
— including the self — are “karmic,” they inherit from previous
conditions and thereby ensure some form of continuity. This
continuity or “continuum”13 among the members of a series of
momentary ‘nows’ becomes the basis for the concept of a stable
identity and is, according to Buddhism, falsely reified into a
substantial entity or ‘self’. As the foregoing discussion shows, both
the Bahá’í Writings and Buddhist philosophy view all ‘entities’
including the self as dynamic, as processes rather than as entities in
the substantive sense. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “nothing which exists
remains in a state of repose.” (BWF 330)
Two Interpretations of the Continuum
Already at this point we can discern two possible interpretations
of the continuity or continuum in a series of momentary ‘nows’, in
what is being “renewed and regenerated at all times.” (TB 141) We
may, like Buddhist philosophy, emphasise the ‘nows’, the moments,
and conclude that “all things have no intrinsic entity”14 since “all
things have no enduring existence even for a moment.”15 On the
other hand, we may choose to emphasise the continuity and the
continuum, and conclude that something real does endure after all, a
process connected by “karmic inheritance”16 from one moment to
the next. While no single entity or moment endures, the karmically
connected process does continue and when we refer to an entity or a
self, we are really referring to this on-going process or pattern
exemplified by the process. It is the contention of this paper that the
ontology embedded in the Bahá’í Writings suggest this latter view
which is not fully substantialist because it does not admit changeless
particular things in creation, and which is not fully non-substantialist
because it allows that there are enduring, i.e. continuing patterned
processes. The continuity or repetition in each process functions like
a
traditional
substance
insofar
as
each
process
possesses
particularising attributes. The continuum may be compared to a
fractal in which self-similarity persists through seemingly infinite
change.
Resolving an Apparent Contradiction
At this point a crucial question arises: what about ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
claim that “It has been proved by exact science that the essence of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

things does not change”? (SAQ 100) Does this not contradict his own
claim that “nothing which exists remains in a state of repose” (BWF
330) and Bahá’u’lláh’s assertion that the contingent world of
creation is “being renewed and regenerated at all times”? (TB 330)
One way to resolve this apparent contradiction is to say that “the
essence of things” is that which is karmically inherited and is
apparent in the continuity or pattern of the process. Insofar as each
process is particular and continues as that particular process, it has an
unchanging essence, that is, an essence that is constantly “renewed
and regenerated.” Thus, we may conclude that when ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
writes that “the essence of things does not change,” he can be
understood to means that the nature of a particular process cannot
change into a different kind of process. The process has integrity,
and inasmuch as it cannot change into something else, it has
ontological independence from other created things. An example of
these beliefs at work is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s insistence that appearances
notwithstanding, humankind’s “species and essence undergo no
change.” (SAQ 184; cf. 177) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá admits that we have been
in a process of evolution but rejects the notion that alterations of
outward form reflect any change in essence — which persists as a
pattern of “karmic inheritance.”
Dependent Origination and the Writings
Let us now examine the issue of substantialist and non-
substantialist views from the perspective of dependent origination.
In the process of dependent origination, all entities are constituted
and formed by the reciprocal influence of other entities, for which
reason, they are compounded or mutually conditioned.17 Indeed,
according to Alan Sponberg, “In the Buddhist view, [even] the self
is
nothing
more
or
less
than
the
dynamic
aggregation
[compounding] of a bundle of interrelated causal processes.”18 The
compounded nature of created entities is — albeit with one
exception — accepted by the Bahá’í Writings. It is implicit in
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s claim that the world of being is a chain of mutual
interactions which cause things to come into existence, grow and
develop. (SAQ 178-9) It also underlies His statement that
Each organism is a compound; each object is an expression
of elemental affinity . . . Existence or the expression of being
is,
therefore,
composition;
and
nonexistence
is
decomposition, division, disintegration. When elements
have been brought together in a certain plan of
combination, the result is the human organism; when these
elements separate and disperse, the outcome is death and
nonexistence. (PUP 56)

Bahá’í Ontology

It is worth pointing out that Abdul-Bahá says that both organisms
and non-living objects are compounds, and exist by virtue of
“elemental affinity” (PUP 56) among the parts and, as noted above,
by virtue of the dynamic inter-action among various entities. In
other words, things do not have existence solely in and of
themselves but arise dependently. In Buddhism, according to Alan
Sponberg,
Perhaps the single most distinctive and radical of the
Buddha’s
teachings
was
the
notion of
the
non-
substantiality of the self, the doctrine referred to in the
Pali scriptures as anattaa (Sanskrit: anaatman) and usually
rendered in English as the view of "no-self" or "non-
self."[6] As a corollary of the principle of conditionality
(pratiity samutpaada) [dependent origination] . . . the
nonsubsantiality of the self lies at the very of heart of the
Dharma.19
The preceding passage makes clear that Buddhist philosophers
interpret the dynamic, process nature of the self, its impermanence
and inter-dependence, as a sign that it has no substantial existence,
existence of its own. The question is, whether the Bahá’í Writings
can support such a view and the answer is that it all depends on how
we interpret the term ‘substance.’ Substance is usually defined as an
absolutely changeless substratum that is present in all things.
Aristotle defines what he calls “first substance”20 as that which
possesses attributes but is not an attribute of anything else. It is also
individual. His substance seems to be static.
A Dynamic Interpretation of Substance
If we interpret substance dynamically, that is, as a continuum or
pattern of endlessly self-repeating ‘moments’ which are being
“renewed and regenerated at all times,” (TB 141) then we have, in
fact, a dynamic, process concept of substance that is impermanent in
its continuous re-birth and passing away and at the same time
permanent inasmuch as it is part of a particular and specific series or
continuum or pattern. Such an interpretation of ‘substance’ in
regards to creation harmonizes well with the Writings because it
provides for both dynamic change and continuity; indeed, it
provides for continuity through dynamic change. Furthermore, in
this view, the continuity, continuum or pattern that persists through
the individual moments of change functions as the substance, that
is, as the bearer of attributes by which we may distinguish one
‘substance-pattern’ from another. It is vital to note that we did not
claim that the continuum or pattern is a substance but rather that it

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

actively functions like one. It is a substance only in terms of
function. It is not some kind of mysterious material.
Thus, from the point of view of process or dependent
origination, it is clear that Bahá’í ontology is neither a pure ontology
of substance, such as that of Spinoza, nor a purely non-substantial
ontology such as we find in most understandings of Buddhism. For
there can be no doubt that most Buddhist philosophers would reject
the notion that the continuum or patterns caused by the process of
dependent origination functions like a substance; nor, in the case of
humankind, would they accept it as a self since that would violate
the doctrine of anatta or no-self. However, as we have seen, the
Bahá’í Writings seem to steer between the two alternatives by saying
that the self is non-substantial inasmuch as it is a process but is
substantial inasmuch it is a persisting pattern exhibited by a process.
We are left with a final question, namely, does an entity or self
exist independently in its own right? According to Buddhist monk
and philosopher P.A. Payuto,
if there were some real intrinsic self within that continuum
there could be no true interdependent cause and effect
process. The continuum of cause and effect which enables
all things to exist as they do can only operate because such
things are transient, ephemeral, constantly arising and
ceasing and having no intrinsic entity of their own.21
The gist of this passage is clear: things have “no intrinsic entity,”
that is, no independent existence and exist purely as functions or
products of the process of independent arising. They have no other
source or ground of being than the process of dependent
origination. Payuto makes this clear when he says that because they
are “so interrelated and interdependent . . . they have no First Cause.”22
Dependence and Independence
However, according to the Bahá’í Writings, things are both
dependent on and independent from other created things. The
changeless essence is obviously independent but the manifestation of
that essence, the properties it exhibits while appearing are dependent
on the relationship to other entities. Up to this point we have a
substantialist view with a stable, that is, unchanging independent
essence which needs nothing else to exist. (We shall deal with the
issue of God shortly.) However, the Writings do not leave matters
there since they tell us that “nothing which exists remains in a state
of repose, that is to say, all things are in motion.” (BWF 330) How,
then, can we resolve this apparent contradiction between changeless
essences and all things being in motion? Non-substantialists achieve
this can be done by getting rid of the enduring essence and retaining

Bahá’í Ontology

the ever-changing properties.23 The Bahá’í Writings refuse to carry
out such an amputation and clearly recognise the existence of
persisting essences. At the same time they recognise the ubiquity of
change.
One way to resolve this apparent contradiction is to say that the
essences exist by virtue of the changing properties they manifest. An
essence is real only if it manifests or exhibits itself, that is to say, an
essence is real only if it engages in inter-action with its environment.
Paradoxically, the changeless requires change to exist: being and
becoming are absolute correlates, like two sides of a coin. This
position is substantialist insofar as it recognizes the existence of
enduring essences and non-substantialist insofar as the existence of
these essences (persisting patterns) depends on the manifestation of
changing properties.
To show how this is possible, we must re-examine ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
quote about the chain of being:
For all beings are connected together like a chain; and
reciprocal help, assistance and interaction belonging to the
properties of things are the causes of the existence,
development and growth of created beings. (SAQ 178-9)
The interactions belong to “the properties of things,” to their
manifested qualities, not to their essence. Without these interactions
and changes, the essence could not exist, for which reason ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá says that interaction causes “the existence” as well as the
“development and growth” of things. The essence needs the
interactions and, on the other hand, the interactions need the essence
since nothing can exist without an essence or nature. Another way of
expressing this is to say that the essence or self or soul has an
independent existence formally but not actually. A formal
distinction is an objectively real difference between things that
cannot, in actuality, be separated from each other.24 For example, we
may formally distinguish one side of a coin from another, but we
cannot actually separate them. The difference between the two sides
is objectively real though we cannot separate the two. Similarly, we
may formally distinguish the soul, self or essence from its inter-
actions, but cannot actually separate them from their relationships to
other entities. Both are always present, being absolutely correlated.
Having “Intrinsic Entity”
Thus, if we ask whether a self, soul or essence has “intrinsic
entity,” which is to say, whether it has any existence apart from its
supporting factors in the process of dependent origination25, the
Bahá’í Writings would seem to answer both yes and no. Insofar as

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

the soul, essence or self is formally distinct, which is to say, insofar
as it is formally objective and real, it possesses “intrinsic entity.” It
is, in Aristotelian terms, a ‘substance’, something which does not
exist as an attribute of something else, though in keeping with our
process perspective, we would rather say the self, soul or essence act
or function like a substance. On the other hand, insofar as it cannot
actually be separated from its inter-actions, the self, soul or essence
lacks “intrinsic entity.” Once again, we observe how the Bahá’í
Writings carve out a middle way between substantialism and non-
substantialism.
In contrast to Buddhist non-substantialism, we must also note
that even though the soul or self exists by virtue of relating to
others, it is, therefore, not compounded from what some Buddhists
call their “supporting factors.”26 As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “The soul,
not being a composition of elements, is, in character, as a simple
element.” (PT 91; cf. PUP 260) The fact that the soul is simple and not
compounded lays the foundation for the soul’s ontological integrity,
that is, for the fact that the soul is not entirely determined, shaped
or governed by its ”supporting factors.” In other words, it has free
will, as noted by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá when He says,
Some things are subject to the free will of man, such as
justice, equity, tyranny and injustice, in other words, good
and evil actions; it is evident and clear that these actions
are, for the most part, left to the will of man. But there are
certain things to which man is forced and compelled, such
as sleep, death, sickness, decline of power, injuries and
misfortunes; these are not subject to the will of man. . .
(SAQ 248)
Here, too, we see the Bahá’í Writings taking a middle path between
absolute determinism and absolute free will which recognizes no
limitations on the human will. According to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
humankind is morally free, that is, morally and spiritually free and
undetermined vis-à-vis the conditions of existence but determined
by external life circumstances be they cultural, economic or political,
or by internal circumstances such as physiological condition and
general health. In non-substantialist philosophies such as many of
the philosophies that grow out of the Buddha’s revelation, the issue
of free will is not so clear. On one hand, if each momentary self is
only a compound of its “supporting factors” — as the doctrine
dependent origination teaches — then it is difficult to see how the
momentarily existing self can be free, i.e. undetermined by others, or
conversely, self-determined. At least some Buddhist are willing to
accept this consequence: “Free will, in terms of an undetermined,
unrelated, uncaused factor in human actions, cannot be admitted.” 27
On the other hand, this conflicts with the self-evident need for us to

Bahá’í Ontology

be self-determined, that is, make choices conducive to our salvation.
How these two positions can be reconciled is not entirely clear.
Interestingly enough, some Buddhists argue that the whole problem
of individual free will is a chimera, because no such stable entities as
‘a man’ and ‘will’ even exist.28 Therefore, nothing contradictory can
be said about them.
It might be objected that, given ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s support for the
idea of “elemental atoms,” (PUP 284) the Bahá’í Writings clearly
espouse substantialism. Such atoms may be understood as stable
substances - but then we must remember that “The elemental atoms
which constitute all phenomenal existence and being in this
illimitable universe are in perpetual motion, undergoing continuous
degrees of progression.” (FWU 57) Without motion, the atoms could
not exist; their existence and motion are correlates and the atom
only exists by virtue of its motion and change or “progression.” As
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “Creation is the expression of motion” (PUP 140)
which is obviously an essential attribute of everything created by
God. Because the “elemental atoms” have motion as an essential,
ontologically constitutive attribute, it is untenable to argue that the
Writings are purely substantialist. On the other hand, the belief that
something such as a persistent pattern, (called an “elemental atom”)
endures through the cosmic process indicates that the view
embedded in the Writings cannot be identified with non-
substantialism either. Yet again we observe how the Writings take a
middle path between these two positions.
The Aristotelian Substratum
Before passing on to our next subject, we must deal with an
important
question
of
interpretation,
viz.,
does
not
this
understanding of a middle path between substantialism and non-
substantialism contradict the Aristotelian substratum of the Bahá’í
Writings?29 It might appear so, especially in regards to the concept
of ‘substance.’ Rather than say that the Writings contradict or reject
the notion of substance, it should be said that they keep the concept
albeit in a new form, which is to say, they keep the essential meaning
of a continuity and a bearer of attributes persisting through change.
In other words, the Writings give their revised concept of substance
all the meanings that have been associated with Aristotle’s concept
of substance.30 Succinctly put, the Writings expand and up-date
Aristotle’s concept of substance into the direction of modern
process philosophy.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Change and Order
Because everything in the created realm is in a state of essential
motion or change, being and becoming are correlates, formally
distinguishable but not actually separable. In the words of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, “This state of motion is said to be essential — that is, natural;
it cannot be separated from beings because it is their essential
requirement, as it is the essential requirement of fire to burn.” (SAQ
233) Furthermore, motion cannot be separated from being because
“an essential requirement cannot be separated from the thing itself.”
(SAQ 171) Thus, motion and being are “inseparable concomitants of
existence,”31 each of the two existing by virtue of the other as we
have already seen above.
As the Writings make clear, there is, however, more to change
than mere endless alteration without any direction or purpose,
pushed this way and that like a ship hopelessly adrift on the sea.
Both at the microscopic level and the macroscopic level, becoming is
teleological, it has direction: it is, in a word, teleological which
means that change is orderly in regard to future developments. This
means that change must be guided or restrained at both the
macroscopic and microscopic level. At the macro level, the non-
random nature of becoming is evident in the hierarchical structure
of creation with the simple mineral kingdom at the bottom and the
highly complex human kingdom as the fruit of creation at the top.32
It is also evident in the psychological, cultural and spiritual evolution
of humankind under the guidance of successive Manifestations of
God Who prevent us from merely changing aimlessly without
direction. At both the macroscopic and microscopic level the non-
random nature of change is evident in causality and the principle of
sufficient reason (PSR), according to which “we must realize that
everything which happens is due to some wisdom and that nothing
happens without a reason.” (PUP 46) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá implicitly asserts
the PSR in His use of the First Mover argument to prove the
existence of God. This argument says that physical motion requires a
first cause that is sufficient to set universal motion into action and
that if we follow any sequence of change to its source, we come to
“Him who is the Ever-Living, the All-Powerful, who is Self-
Dependent and the Ultimate Cause.” (BWF 343) The non-random
nature of change is also evident in the Writings’ insistence on the
principle of causality. Bahá’u’lláh says that “All that is created,
however, is preceded by a cause,” (GWB 162) to which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
adds that “the existence of everything depends upon four causes.”
(SAQ 16233) It only take a little reflection to realise that if events and
things are preceded by a cause, then random, uncaused ‘spontaneous’
unprompted, action is not possible. If it were, the universe could not
be an orderly place as the Writings assert it is.34

Bahá’í Ontology

There is one further source of order in the ubiquity of change
and that is the potentials that exist in all things. These potentials
limit the development or change in each thing or process to a certain
range or spectrum of possibilities which can be realized, thereby
keeping change orderly. A raincoat does not change into a living
crocodile because it lacks the potentials to develop lungs and other
organs. The Writings clearly affirm the existence of potentials,
speaking of the virtues “potential in the seed,” (PUP 91) of the sun
awakening “all that is potential in the earth,” (PUP 74) of the “virtues
potential in mankind”, (PUP 70) of the inventions “potential in the
world of nature”35 and of the embryo progressing until “that which
was potential in it — namely, the human image — appears.” (PUP 359)
Of similar import are the passages referring to the “mysteries latent
in nature” (PUP 51) which are actualized by humankind, the “latent
talents” (PUP 52) hidden in human beings, the “divine perfections
latent in the heart of man,” (PUP 53) the “latent realities within the
bosom of the earth,” (FWU 70) and the “the greater world, the
macrocosm . . . latent and miniature in the lesser world, or microcosm,
of man.” (PUP 69-70) The same idea is implicit in Bahá’u’lláh’s
statement that we are to “[r]egard man as a mine rich in gems of
inestimable value,” (GWB 260) which is to say that humankind
possesses invaluable potentials that must be actualized through
education.
The Existence of Potentials
The ontological necessity for the existence of potentials is
supported by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s assertion that “nonexistence is only
relative and absolute nonexistence inconceivable” (PUP 88) and that
“no sign can come from a nonexisting thing” (SAQ 255) lead to the
conclusion that in Bahá’í ontology there is another kind of non-
being — ‘being- not-yet.’ If “[a] thing which does not exist, can . . .
give no sign of its existence,” (PT 91) then it follows that everything
which has come into existence must have existed as a potential, as a
‘being-not-yet’ or potential before it is actualized. Otherwise it
would have come from absolute nothing — and that is not allowed.
The existence of potentials within all things (processes) has a
number of significant implications for Bahá’í ontology. First, it
suggests that there is a conceptual distinction between a thing or
process and its potentials which are the aspects of an entity that
express both possibilities and limitations to which it is subject. They
define it, both in relationship to itself and in relationship to others.
However, albeit it only conceptually and not actually, the reality of
potentials also suggests that every entity or process is di-polar in
regards to its present state of actualized potentials and its future
state of unactualized potentials. Moreover, insofar as all things

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

strive to actualize their future potentials, all things are subject to a
dynamic tension, which, in effect, defines them as they entity they
are. This dynamic tension reflects the fact that
Everything is either growing or declining, all things are
either coming from non-existence into being, or going
from existence into non-existence. (BWF 330)
Both in growing and declining things are actualizing new,
hitherto unrealised, possibilities. (Lest there be any confusion, it
should be noted that “non-existence” and “existence” are relative
terms and must not be understood as absolutes. (PUP 88)) It is worth
noting that inasmuch as all things strive to actualise their potentials,
they strive, in effect, to be more, which is to say, they endeavour to
be other or not-themselves as they currently are. They seek self-
transcendence. This, too, creates, tensions within them because they
are always involved, to one extent or another, in a struggle against
themselves as they are. In short, they are making themselves new at
all times. This leads to the conclusion that they are characterized by
what Hegel calls an “inherent unrest”36; in other words, self-
dissatisfaction is a universal metaphysical principle inherent in all
things, although only humankind is consciously aware of it.
The Ultimate “Object of Desire”
It should be noted however, that potentials, the future identity, is
only the proximate motive for an entity to struggle forward. The
ultimate motive is, of course, the return to God, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
makes clear in the following quotation: “From this same God all
creation sprang into existence, and He is the one goal, towards
which everything in nature yearns.” (PT 51) God, as Aristotle said,
God is “the object of desire”37 of all things. Insofar as God is the
ultimate motive for cosmic restlessness, we cannot help but conclude
that return to God which all things desire is one of the principles
according to which the cosmos is organised.
To emphasise the ubiquitous influence of this motive principle,
we draw attention to the fact that even matter is not exempt from
it. Although apparently ‘dead’ or unchanging to us, such is not really
the case as noted by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
As to the existence of spirit in the mineral, it is indubitable
that minerals are endowed with a spirit and life according
to the requirements of that stage. (TAF)
Elsewhere He says,
This world is full of seeming contradictions; in each of
these kingdoms [mineral, vegetable and animal] life exists

Bahá’í Ontology

in its degree; though when compared to the life in a man,
the earth appears to be dead, yet she, too, lives and has a
life of her own. (PT 66)
The fact that all things are alive to their own degree supports the
view that all things without exception strive to actualize their
potentials and to return to God.
Hegel, Dialectic and the Writings
One more aspect of the nature of change needs to be covered,
namely whether or not the process undergone by every thing or
process is a dialectic in the Hegelian sense. In other words, we must
determine whether or not the transformative process which
constitutes the being of every thing and process, is driven by the
power of negation or contradiction. As Hegel says, “Contradiction is
the moving principle of the world.”38 According to Hegel, negation
or contradiction is the means by which the static identity of things is
dissolved and they take on a new identity as a dynamic entities
striving towards completion or ‘wholeness.’ As Hegel writes,
by Dialectic is meant the indwelling tendency outwards by
which the one-sidedness and limitation of the predicates of
understanding is seen in its true light, and shown to be the
negation of them. For anything to be finite is just to
suppress itself and put itself aside.39
In other words, by means of dialectic, things or our understanding
of things overcome their own limitations or “one-sidedness,” as they
struggle to become more complete or comprehensive. In Hegel’s
view, nothing that can be grasped by human understanding is
exempt from this dialectical process: “Dialectic is the very nature
and essence of everything predicated by mere understanding — the
law of things and of the finite as a whole.”40 As Hegel puts it,
“Wherever there is movement, wherever there is life, wherever
anything is carried into effect in the actual world, there Dialectic is
at work.”41 This means that nothing is exempt from dialectic and
that dialectic occurs in every moment so that there is, in fact, no
time at which a thing is not involved in dialectical change in which it
strives to complete and transcend itself. (One might think of this
self-transcending as the ‘return’ to God mentioned in the Writings.)
The dissolution of the static identity of things is inevitable because
each thing contains its own ‘contradictory’, that is, its own ‘other’,
opposite or differentiation or antithesis within itself, thereby
continuously undermining or negating its identity. In the words of
Hegel,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Everything finite, instead of being stable and ultimate, is
rather changeable and transient; and this is exactly what we
mean by that Dialectic of the finite, by which the finite, as
implicitly other than what it is, is forced beyond its own
immediate or natural being to turn suddenly into its
opposite.42
Each thing strives to overcome this opposition by including the
opposite in a new, more expansive version of itself — a process often
described as the triad of thesis-antithesis-synthesis.43 In this change
an entity becomes something new, that is, something that it was not,
or as Hegel says, “its opposite.” Consequently, identity is never
something static but rather dynamic:
Identity, instead of being in its own self-truth and absolute
truth is consequently they very opposite: instead of being
the unmoved simple, it is the passage beyond itself into the
dissolution of itself.44
However, this transcendence or “passage beyond itself” does not
mean that an entity ceases to be or loses itself; indeed, the exact
opposite is the case according to Hegel who writes, “the finite in its
ceasing-to-be, in this negation of itself has attained its being-in-
itself, is united with itself . . . in going beyond itself, therefore, it
equally unites with itself.”45
Dialectic in the Writings
Let us now examine which aspects of Hegel’s work are confirmed
by the Bahá’í Writings, which contradict the Writings and which
can be harmonized with them and to what degree. The key to
understanding any possible similarity is the concept of potentials,
which, as we have already seen, are inherent in all things. We may
permit ourselves one quotation to refresh our memories: “But the
whole of the great tree is potentially latent and hidden in the little
seed. When this seed is planted and cultivated, the tree is revealed.”
(PUP 69) What this means is that when the potentials are actualized
— “planted and cultivated” — the tree comes into existence or is
“revealed” to the world. In other words, there is a transition from
potential to actual, a view with which Aristotle and Hegel would
also agree.
Actuality and Potentiality
This means in effect, that according to the Writings, all things
are constituted by a formal distinction between an entity’s actuality
and its potentiality. The difference between actuality and
potentiality is objectively real, but the two cannot really be separated
from one another: they are absolute correlates which is to say that

Bahá’í Ontology

wherever we find one, we find the other as with two sides of a coin.
The formal distinction between an entity’s present actuality or state
and its potentials suggests that according to the Writings, all entities
have a complementary nature, with two real, but absolutely
correlated aspects. They are wholes, but differentiated wholes, not
undifferentiated wholes. From this it follows that only God is a
perfect unity or one, which is perhaps why ‘Abdu’l-Bahá refers to
God as the “Lord of Unity.” (SAQ 146) Only God is, ontologically
speaking, really and completely one. In other words, God has no
potentials for future development because the possession of such
potentials indicates the imperfection of incompleteness. This cannot
be because “God is pure perfection.” (SAQ 113)
Self-Transcendence
Let us now examine the concept of potentials more closely. To
say that a thing has a particular potential is, in effect, to say that it
is, relative to what it could be, incomplete and unfinished, that it has
a transitional perfection but no final perfection. It is not yet fully
itself inasmuch as there is, in Hegel’s language, an internal
contradiction between its actual existence and its essence which is all
of its potentials. The fact that human evolution is endless and
continues after death suggests that this internal contradiction is
constitutional: as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “human perfections are
infinite.” (BWF 333) However, from the perspective of the Writings,
all things are in the condition of changing, growing and declining,
so that in effect, this internal contradiction between what they are
and what they could be constitutes all things. They are all striving to
transcend themselves. However, only humankind is conscious of this
fact as a part of its experience of existence.
Potentials and Contradiction
In any case, the infinity of potentials or possible perfections
means that neither humankind nor any other entities can ever
actualise all their potentials; unrealised potentials will always remain
and this means that no thing is ever completely and fully itself
although it continuously struggles to attain this completed state.
Actualising one potential means only to be confronted by another,
which is to say, that all entities, including humankind, are constantly
confronted by a new possibility, an ‘other’, a negation of themselves
as they currently are, a not-self or antithesis.46 By virtue of their
potentials, things are not self-identical relative to what —
theoretically or ideally — they could be. In Hegel’s terminology, all
entities including humankind are constitutionally alienated or
estranged from themselves, suffering an internal contradiction
which they must strive to overcome. In the case of humankind,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Hegel calls this condition the “Unhappy Consciousness [which] is
the consciousness of self as a dual natured, merely contradictory
being.”47 Because it desires to more than a “merely contradictory
being”, the unhappy consciousness seeks to overcome this situation.
Once again we see how “Contradiction is the very moving principle
of the world.”48
Hegel, the Unhappy Consciousness and
Manifestations
Of particular interest to Bahá’í ontology is that according to
Hegel, the Unhappy Consciousness can only overcome its alienated
condition by surrendering its will to an intermediary with God, that
is, a minister or priest. For Bahá’ís, of course, this is impossible since
the Faith has no clergy of any sort, but no great effort is required to
replace a clergyman with the Manifestation of God. Once this
change is made, what Hegel writes harmonizes well with the
Writings. For example, before the Manifestation, the self
“renounces its will.”49
Through these moments of surrender, first of its right to
decide for itself, then of its property [sacrificial giving]
and enjoyment, and finally of practicing what it does not
understand, it truly and completely deprives itself of the
consciousness of inner and outer freedom, of the actuality
in which consciousness exists for itself. It has the certainty
of having truly divested itself of its ‘I’ . . . Only through this
actual
sacrifice
could
it
demonstrate
this
self-
renunciation.50
Only with such complete renunciation of everything pertaining to
self and the illusion of independence from God can the self
“obtain[] relief from its misery”51 because it has positively put its
will at the disposal of the “universal will.”52 What this renunciation
demonstrates is that the individual understands that, in the words of
the Writings, “the existence of beings in comparison with the
existence of God is but illusion and nothingness.” (SAQ 278)
At this point it is important to draw special attention to an
important difference between the Bahá’í Writings and Hegel: the
Writings could never agree to such a complete surrender of self to
anyone but a Manifestation of God and certainly not to any
clergyman, priest, monk, mulláh or rabbi. This concern for our
dignity before other human beings is reflected in the prohibition of
confession of sins either to a priest or in public because “such
confession before people results in one's humiliation and
abasement.” (KA 194) This surrender of self can be made only to
God.

Bahá’í Ontology

How, it may be asked, can the surrender of one’s will to God
alleviate the “unhappy consciousness”? Certainly it will not suddenly
lose all its inherent potentials and thus will still suffer contradiction
and alienation. However, at least from the Bahá’í perspective, those
contradictions will be re-contextualised as a “healing medicine”:
O Thou Whose tests are a healing medicine to such as are
nigh unto Thee, Whose sword is the ardent desire of all
them that love Thee, Whose dart is the dearest wish of
those hearts that yearn after Thee, Whose decree is the sole
hope of them that have recognized Thy Truth! (PM 220-1)
By re-contextualizing the challenges of alienation and internal
contradictions as part of our healing or becoming whole, the Bahá’í
Writings show us that these contradictions need not necessarily be
emiserating since they are necessary to our healing. Seen in this way,
the Writings put Writings put a positive light on Hegel’s theory of
alienation because alienation is necessary for growth and
development.
The Nature of Things
Let us now take time for further reflection on what the Writings
explicitly say and suggest about the nature of ‘things’ that make up
the world. In studying this question, we must first differentiate
between perceptual and conceptual things, in other words, objects
of perception and objects of conception or thought because
perceptual objects exist independently of human perception and
conceptual objects do not.53 It is obvious that unicorns require a
thinker in order to be but that roan stallions do not. Our discussion
will concern itself with perceptual objects or things. This is not to
say that we are only concerned with material things or substances,
since the Writings recognise the existence of non-material
substances such as the soul, whose existence is evident through their
effects. For example, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá tells us that “the rational soul is
the substance and the body depends upon it” (SAQ 239) and that “the
soul . . . [is] one indivisible substance.” (PT 91) Now, we cannot
perceive the soul directly but we can observe its effects and deduce
its existence from them.
A thing or substance must satisfy several requirements. In the
first place, it must have qualities by which it acquires ontological
existence; it must, as Aristotle says, be a bearer of attributes. These
attributes may be their particular effects upon other things. There
are two subgroups of these qualities: essential attributes which it
absolutely requires to be the thing and kind of thing it is and
accidental attributes which may be different from one instantiation
of a substance to the next. Second, any substance or thing must have

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

differentia, that is, it must have attributes that distinguish it from
other kinds and from other members of its own kind. No thing is
merely a complete duplicate of another, a principle alluded to when
‘Abdu’l-Bahá speaks of “the law of creation in its endless forms and
infinite variety of expression.” (PUP 56) Finally, it must have
relationship to other things that exist, a view explicitly confirmed by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá when He says “For all beings are connected together
like a chain; and reciprocal help, assistance and interaction.” (SAQ
178, emphases added) Anything of which we can say “It is” must be
able to meet these three criteria. Even God — as presented in the
Writings not necessarily as He is in Himself which no one can know
— meets these criteria. Consider, for example, the following
quotation:
Know that the Reality of Divinity or the substance of the
Essence of Oneness is pure sanctity and absolute holiness —
that is to say, it is sanctified and exempt from all praise.
(SAQ 146)
We observe that God is described as a substance — obviously not
material — that is, as possessing attributes of “pure sanctity and
absolute holiness” and being “sanctified and exempt from all praise”,
and as having differentia, such as those just mentioned. While God
has no direct relationship with creation54 the fact remains that He
does relate to creation through His Manifestations. However, we
should not be misled into thinking that God is a ‘thing like the
others’, because it would be difficult if not impossible to conceive
of accidental, that is, non-essential attributes in God. In this, and in
other ways, God is exceptional.
As we have already seen, the Writings present each thing —
except of course God — as having a two fold aspect: the thing as it
currently is, and its potentials, or the thing as it could be. The two
are correlated and the latter is a contradiction to or negation of the
former which must be dissolved in order to actualize its future
identity. However, existing in this state of contradiction is not
tenable for a thing, which seeks to become fully one with itself by
actualizing all of its potentials. In other words, for a thing to
actualise a potential is, in effect, for the thing to negate itself as it
is, and to find itself again, a new form, by means of uniting with the
previously contradictory other whether that ‘other’ be internal or
external. In either case the thing is a being that actively maintains its
identity and in that sense is, by the paradoxical act of becoming
another: it is what it is by always leaving its old identity behind.

Bahá’í Ontology

The Quest for Unity
It does so because all things seek completion — the only way they
can achieve the one-ness or unity which they desire not only because
“disunity and inharmony spell death” (SWAB 31) but also because
they are naturally attracted to God, the universal “object of
desire.”55 Thus, the evolution of things is impelled or motivated by
three reasons: first, the need to change and, thereby, to stay in
existence; second, the desire to escape disunity and the ‘death’ of
incompleteness and third, the desire to reach the Source of all being.
Internal contradiction and alienation are the means by which these
three goals — continued existence, actualization of potentials, and
closeness to God - are achieved. This, however, marks a departure
from Hegel insofar as the Writings do not see contradiction by itself
as sufficient to explain motion and change; rather, a transcendent
Attractor, or God, is needed to explain why things desire the return
to God and therefore, move on the “arc of ascent.” (SAQ 284)
As we have seen, focussing on the internal constitution of a
thing, reveals that it is always doing two things at once: changing its
identity yet maintaining it. To do one requires the other. This means
that every thing is constituted by a double-movement that highlights
the paradoxical nature of its existence: to be itself it must actively
cease being itself. Only by such relentless self-overcoming can a
thing be itself, as, indeed, it is written in the Bible: “For whosoever
will save his life shall lose it: but whosoever will lose his life for my
sake, the same shall save it.”56 Christ’s statement seems to apply not
only to human beings but to all things in creation.
The Nothingness Within
The fact that all things are continuously changing points out
another aspect characterizing all created things: they are constituted
by mixture of being and nothingness which is to say, they both are
and, vis-à-vis their future unactualized potentials, are not. Without
this nothingness in their constitution, they could not be because they
could not change, and without change or motion, being is not
possible according to the Writings. Further analysis permits us to
add that since growth and movement are necessary for being, the
potentials inherent in a thing, in effect, amount to an internal
imperative, an internal “ought” for which it must strive or suffer the
consequent diminishment of being. Actualisation is an “inner
necessity” for things. We must also note that through these
potentials, or ‘oughts’, things transcend their limitations.57 This
means that all things have a self-transcendent aspect, always
‘desiring’ to be more than they currently are. Paradoxically, in doing
so, they become themselves more completely than ever before, or, as
Hegel says, “the finite in its ceasing-to-be, in this negation of itself

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

has attained its being-in-itself, is united with itself.”58 In this seeking
to be more, the finite thing reaches out towards infinity — or, in
Bahá’í terms, desires God — and thereby more truly becomes itself.
According to Hegel, “In the ought the transcendence of finitude,
that is, infinity begins.”59 (It is plain at this point that Bahá’í
ontology is evolutionary to its very foundations inasmuch as growth
and transformation are an integral part of all things.)
The foregoing are some of the paradoxical consequences of the
Bahá’í teaching that “that existence and nonexistence are both
relative.” (SAQ 281) In other words, among created things, they are
not absolute, a fact emphasised by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá when He says,
“Therefore non-existence is only relative and absolute non-existence
inconceivable.” (BWF 264) When we inquire as to what non-existence
is relative to, we can answer, firstly, relative to its future existence as
latent potentials and second, relative to God, the sole possessor of
absolute, non-relative existence. All things are as nothing relative, or
compared, to Him. This too emphasises that created things are a
mixture of being (relative to themselves and on their ontological
plane) and non-being relative to God. Moreover, it also shows that
created things are a paradoxical unity of one and many — one thing
with many potential variations and many identities through many
phases.
The PSR and Its Idealist Consequences
Another aspect of being a thing concerns the principle of
sufficient reason (PSR) according to which everything to which
everything that happens or exists does so for a reason.60 The PSR is
also known as the “final cause” which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says is necessary
for all existing things:
for the existence of everything depends upon four causes
— the efficient cause, the matter, the form and the final
cause. For example, this chair has a maker who is a
carpenter, a substance which is wood, a form which is that
of a chair, and a purpose . . . (SAQ 280)
A purpose, of course, is an idea, or, in language more suitable to the
PSR, a reason. Now it is important to realise that while in the order
of time, the final cause is realized last, in the order of thought it is
actually the first: we start by conceiving a thing’s purpose and then
we build it to meet that purpose. The final purpose, or sufficient
reason is already implicit in the efficient and formal cause and in the
selection of the material cause. The ontological significance of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement is that it shows the things are grounded in
an idea, a thought, a reason, that what we call a ‘thing’ is, in effect,
the outer expression of an idea. To generalise, we might say that

Bahá’í Ontology

reality and reason are not opponents, nor even indifferent to one
another, but rather, that reality is grounded in and grows out of or
instantiates reason or thought. This is in harmony with the idealist
aspects we have already noted in a previous study of Bahá’í
ontology.61 We are, thereby encouraged to conclude that the
universe is the expression of a divine concept, a suggestion which
complements ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statement that “The first thing which
emanated from God is that universal reality, which the ancient
philosophers termed the ‘First Mind,’ and which the people of Bahá
call the ‘First Will.’” (SAQ 203) This statement implies a form of
idealism because it indicates that creation — which came into being
after the First Mind or First Will — is the product of a thought or
act of will. In either case, matter is not ontologically fundamental
but is grounded in or dependent on something else that is not
material.
(There may be some question as to why ‘Abdu’l-Bahá mentions
that the “the people of Bahá” refer to the First Mind as the First
Will. The difference is one of emphasis rather than content because
God is a supreme unity, in Whom no division can be found: “He,
verily, is one and indivisible; one in His essence, one in His
attributes.” (GWB 187) However, putting emphasis on the Will does
not deny the mind — since that would be to say that God acts
thoughtlessly and capriciously, in effect, denying God’s perfection.
Thus, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s emphasis on God’s Will does not negate the
observation that reality is the expression of a divine concept.)
We have now come to a critical juncture in our study of the
philosophy embedded in the Bahá’í Writings, namely, how are we to
interpret the fact that an idea or concept underlies reality, indeed,
that reality as a whole is the outer expression of an idea or concept
and that all things are instantiations of a reason? Are we to
understand this as evidence that Bahá’í ontology is fundamentally
idealist? We have already seen evidence strongly suggesting an
affirmative answer and we have even more in Bahá’u’lláh’s
statement that “Out of the essence of knowledge I gave thee being.”
(HW #13, 7) In other words, human existence is dependent on “the
essence of knowledge,” a fact that makes this “essence of
knowledge” logically prior to human existence, since the knowledge
is the immediate source. The belief that things depend in some way
on an idea or knowledge for their existence is a hallmark of
philosophical idealism. There is still more evidence suggesting the
idealist nature of Bahá’í ontology available, such as the following
statement by Bahá’u’lláh:
. . . From that which hath been said it becometh evident that
all things, in their inmost reality, testify to the revelation

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

of the names and attributes of God within them. Each
according to its capacity, indicateth, and is expressive of,
the knowledge of God. (GWB 17862)
To see the idealist implications of this statement requires us to ask
ourselves a single question: could things (including humankind) exist
if they did not “testify to the revelation of the names and attributes
of God within them,” if things were not “expressive of the
knowledge of God”? (GWB 178) The answer to this question is given
by Bahá’u’lláh Himself, for He states, “Methinks, but for the
potency of that revelation [of God’s names, signs and attributes] no
being could ever exist.” (GWB 177, emphasis added) In other words, a
thing exists only by virtue of being transmitter or expresser or
symbol of knowledge of whichever of God’s Names and signs it has
the capacity to pass on. It exists as the embodiment or instantiation
of an idea or concept, as a concrete symbol of something higher, as
the instantiation of an idea — as also indicated by the PSR.
At this point, the evidence from various perspectives strongly
suggests that the Bahá’í Writings espouse an idealist ontology. In
other words, they promulgate the primacy of spirit over matter and
see matter as ultimately grounded in something non-material,
variously identified as God, the Absolute, Spirit, Mind, Ideas, divine
Names and so on. While the differences in this choice of terms are
by no means insignificant, they all share a common feature, namely,
that material creation is an outcome, consequence or expression of
the non-material which is usually associated with thought and/or a
conscious being.
Varieties of Idealism
There are, of course, various kinds of philosophical idealism not
all of which are consistent with the Writings. For example, the
Writings do not support Berkeley’s subjective idealism according to
which the seemingly objective world only exists as a phenomenon,
appearance or idea within the mind of each individual. There are
only mental events and minds to perceive them which means that
there is no underlying substance or matter but only clusters of
attributes. The ultimate Perceiver is God, Who perceives all the
things we cannot and thereby ensures their existence. The Bahá’í
Writings cannot agree with Berkeley that things are only
conceptions in the mind and that matter does not exist. According
to the Writings, matter is only relatively real vis-à-vis God, but is
real in its own right, and, we perceive realities that are distinctly
different and independent from us as shown by its adherence to the
correspondence theory of truth.63

Bahá’í Ontology

Neither do the Writings espouse a Kantian transcendental
idealism by which the categories of human understanding constitute
an unknowable ‘raw material’ (termed the thing-in-itself) and shape
it into nature as we experience it. We never, according to Kant,
perceive the world as it actually is but only as we have constructed it
in accordance with the pre-existing categories in our minds. While
there are Kantian elements in the Writings — most notably the idea
that we cannot directly know the essence of things — there is
nothing in them to suggest that humans actually constitute nature in
the manner surmised by Kant. We discover truths and do not invent
them. Nor do the Writings accept — despite many Hegelian features
— Hegel’s absolute idealism in which God or Absolute Consciousness
comes to know Itself by means of its creations — and specifically
through humankind - which unfold in a fully logical order whose
dialectic was laid bare by Hegel’s philosophy. It is a monistic
philosophy that vitiates the distinction between humankind and God
(the Absolute) and even allows direct knowledge of God. Because it
denies any ontologically real distinction between thought and
absolute reality64, even matter is just another idea, albeit an idea of
the Absolute. In Bahá’í terms, this means that absolute idealism or at
least Hegel’s version of it, denies the ontological difference between
the station of the mineral or matter, and the station of the rational
soul or thought.65 This is not tenable because the Bahá’í Writings
insist that the various stations of which God has decreed — mineral,
vegetable, animal and human — are ontologically real and invested
with distinct powers.66
The idealism that comes closest to the Writings is that of Plato:
both see the material as being grounded in and expressing the non-
material, that is, the Divine Names, signs and attributes, or, in
Plato’s case, Ideas. Reinforcing this conclusion are statements such
as the following:
The spiritual world is like unto the phenomenal world.
They are the exact counterpart of each other. Whatever
objects appear in this world of existence are the outer
pictures of the world of heaven. (PUP 10; cf. ABL 46)
For physical things are signs and imprints of spiritual
things; every lower thing is an image and counterpart of a
higher thing.67
These, combined with statements that “the Kingdom is the real
world, and this nether place is only its shadow stretching out” (SWAB
178) and that the Kingdom is a more perfect world, (PUP 4, 90) —
much like Plato’s world of Ideas — shows that Bahá’í ontology has
strong Platonic features.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

The First Major Difference with Plato
In what way, we may ask, does Bahá’í ontology distinguish itself
from Platonic idealism? There are at least two major differences that
are apparent. First, is the fact that Plato never recognized the
existence of a personal God, but looked rather to a principle, a
supreme Form, the Good, the One as the source of all being.68 We
hasten to add that Plato’s Demiurge who shapes the world — but
does not bring creation into being - in the Timaeus is a craftsman,
supreme artisan or architect, a god if we desire to call him such but
he is not God the foundation of all being. Rather, the Demiurge
uses pre-existing forms or Ideas and pre-existing but formless matter
to impose form on chaos and to create specific ‘things.’ In other
words, the Demiurge is not the ultimate foundation or ground of all
being, as is the Good or the One. Still more to the point, however, is
that Plato’s Good or One does not have a personal aspect whereas
God as portrayed in the Bahá’í Writings does. Although we cannot
know how God is in His essence, we do know that the Writings
describe Him as having many of the attributes of a concerned
personality: compassion, (BP 99) a sense of justice, (HW #2)
generosity, (BP 99) kindness, (BP 101) and wisdom. (BP 118) He is also
a conscious being Who can hear our prayers69 and Who can take
action of various kinds since He has a will. The ontological
significance of God possessing the attributes of personality is readily
apparent: it means that the attributes of personality are part of the
ontological foundations of all things. These attributes are cosmically
foundational. That is why `Abdu'l-Bahá says,
We declare that love is the cause of the existence of all
phenomena and that the absence of love is the cause of
disintegration or nonexistence. Love is the conscious
bestowal of God, the bond of affiliation in all phenomena.
(PUP 255)
As the rest of the passage makes clear, `Abdu’l-Bahá expects us to
read this statement as an ontological truth about the composition of
the universe. Love — which expresses itself differently at the various
levels of existence — is an actual cosmic force, an “elemental
attraction” (PUP 255) and “selective affinity” (PUP 255) which is
grounded in the nature of God. Even stones manifest it in their
simple cohesiveness: “This power of attraction in the mineral world
is love, the only expression of love the stone can manifest.” (PUP
269)
Natural Theology and Natural Law
The fact that the attributes of personality are part of the
ontological foundations of all existing things means that we have

Bahá’í Ontology

another basis for a Bahá’í natural theology70 and its concomitant
notion of natural law. The fundamental premise of natural theology
is that that created universe reflects the perfections of its Creator
from which we may conclude that by reasoning about these signs, we
can reason out way to from natural phenomena to the existence of
God and other spiritual truths. Bahá’u’lláh clearly establishes the
first when He says that the things created by God “can be regarded
in no other light except as evidences that proclaim the excellence
and perfection of their author.” (GWB 337) This very statement
which establishes the perfection of God by the perfection of His
creation is itself an example of natural theological reasoning, as is
‘Abdul-Bahá’s rhetorical question on the same issue: “Can the
creation be perfect and the creator imperfect? Can a picture be a
masterpiece and the painter imperfect in his art?” (SAQ 5)
There are numerous other examples of natural theological
arguments in the Writings. For example, `Abdu'l-Bahá’s contention
that we can deduce the existence of God from the existence of
motion (BWF 343) and His arguments for the immortality of the soul
(SAQ ch. 61), the existence of final causes (SAQ 208) and the principle
of sufficient reason (PUP 4671), the creation of things by emanation
(SAQ 202), and the evolution of humankind. (SAQ 183) However, at
no point does `Abdu'l-Bahá suggest that the knowledge of natural
theology is sufficient for our complete well-being either as an
individual or as a species. Divine revelation from Manifestations is
still needed to provide complete knowledge of what we need to
know in order to actualize our physical, intellectual and spiritual
potentials. It is clear, therefore, that Bahá’í ontology lays the
foundation for a Bahá’í natural theology
There is also reason to believe that the idealist ontology
embedded in the Writings lays the foundation for a doctrine of
natural law according to which at least some standards of behaviour
are based on the order of nature in general and/or the specific
nature of the creature under discussion. In other words, each kind of
creature has its own divinely appointed ends — its principle of
sufficient reason or final cause — towards which it acts, or at least,
should act. Morals or proper behaviour are not merely a matter of
convention and something we should change at will since negative
consequences will, sooner or later, follow any violations. Natural law
most emphatically does not refer to whatever individual creatures
happen to do. Because each kind of being or species has an inherent,
essence or nature (ultimately bestowed by God) certain behaviours
are — or, are not - appropriate to it. According to the Writings, in
the case of man this means that we recognise to “know [God] and to
worship Him” as stated in the Noonday prayer. Whatever acts and
thoughts are not in harmony with our essential nature, which is to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

say, is in violation of what is natural law for human beings. In short,
our essential nature obligates us to behave to a higher standard than
animals. As ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says,
Man is the highest species because he is the possessor of
the perfections of all the classes — that is, he has a body
which grows and which feels. As well as having the
perfections of the mineral, of the vegetable and of the
animal, he also possesses an especial excellence which the
other beings are without — that is, the intellectual
perfections. (SAQ 235)
As a mere matter of interest, we may note that vis-à-vis the
importance of the intellect, this statement is not far removed from
Aquinas’ view that “the rule and measure of human acts is the
reason, which is the first principle of human acts."72 However, at this
point we cannot delve further into the complexities of natural law
theory, except to draw attention once again to the main conclusion
which is that Bahá’í ontology supports the concept of natural law.
The Second Major Difference with Plato
A second major difference is that Plato’s ontology is static, not
only in regards to the Ideas themselves but also in regards to their
earthly counter-parts or shadows. While Plato’s Ideas do not change,
evolve or progress in any way, the earthly images change — but this
change is not a progress or development but rather mere change
without any final goal or purpose. It is not the “growing or
declining” (SAQ 233) that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says characterizes all things.
Indeed, according to Plato, mutability is the sign of their
imperfection. This is precisely the point at which Bahá’í ontology
differs significantly from Platonic ontology and confirms an
Aristotelian insight, viz. that all things are in process, that all things
actualise their various potentials and that all things exist by virtue of
their motion or change. Being real and being immutable are no
longer inter-changeable concepts as they are for Plato. However, the
Writings do not entirely reject Plato because They do confirm his
insight that the Ideas are immutable — except that in the Writings,
the Platonic Ideas become the Names of God of which all created
tings are symbols or signs. These Names cannot change — a logical
consequence of the fact that “The Sun of Reality has always been in
one condition; it has no change, no alteration, no transformation
and no vicissitude” (SAQ 207) and that God “is one and indivisible;
one in His essence, one in His attributes.” (GWB 187) If God is one
with His attributes and God cannot change, then the attributes
cannot change either. Thus, we can see that the Writings confirm
part of Plato’s ontology and a part of Aristotle’s — and, in regards to

Bahá’í Ontology

the concept of all things desiring to return to God — They confirm
part of Plotinus’ ontology as well.73
The Unknowability of God
The subject of God as the ultimate “object of desire”74 brings us
to the important — and very difficult — question about the nature of
this ‘object.’ What can we know about it - if anything? For Bahá’ís,
what comes to mind first is that according to the Writings, God is,
in Himself, unknowable, for as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says, “That which we
imagine, is not the Reality of God; He, the Unknowable, the
Unthinkable, is far beyond the highest conception of man.” (PT 25)
Further, He says,
That Essence of the Divine Entity and the Unseen of the
unseen is holy above imagination and is beyond thought.
Consciousness doth not reach It. Within the capacity of
comprehension of a produced reality that Ancient Reality
cannot be contained. (BWF 382)
Still elsewhere He says, “The way is closed and seeking is forbidden.”
(SAQ 146) According to the Writings, God can only be known about
through His Manifestation “who is the image and likeness of God”
(PUP 70) in a spiritual sense since He reveals the attributes and
bounties of the Divine to us. (SAQ 222)
The Nothingness of God
It is clear, therefore, that while we can say nothing about God as
He is-in-Himself, we can, however, say something about God as He
is to us — which is to say, unknowable. What does that mean in
philosophic terms? It means above all that God is beyond any
attributes that humans can apply to Him because attributes are
determinations that limit whatever they describe. Since God has no
limitations, He cannot, logically speaking, have attributes. As
‘Abdu’l-Bahá points out,
The purpose [of ascribing attributes to God] is to show
that these attributes and perfections that we recount for
that Universal Reality are only in order to deny
imperfections, rather than to assert the perfections that the
human mind can conceive. Thus we say His attributes are
unknowable. (BWF 343)
However, if God’s “attributes are unknowable,” it follows that we
cannot assign any attributes to God, and, since we cannot reason
about or imagine things without any attributes, we are left with
nothing. We humans simply cannot think about or imagine anything
without attributes. Even if we describe God as ‘pure Being’ the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

situation does not change because pure being itself is without
attributes and/or limitations, and is, thereby, also nothing. As Hegel
says, “Nothing is . . . the same determination, or rather absence of
determination, and thus altogether the same as, pure being.”75 To us,
there is no distinction between “pure being” and nothingness: both
have no attributes that can be ascribed to them; no human
intellectual framework is capable of comprehending them. However,
this ‘nothing’ we call God or ‘pure being’ is — paradoxically — not
the same as ontological non-being, but rather a nothing that
(somehow) is. If to us God has no attributes — or, as is said in
Buddhism, “marks”76 — then for us, God may also be described as a
‘void’, as ‘emptiness’, provided that we remember the Dalai Lama’s
warning “You might think that emptiness means nothingness, but it
does not.”77 Therefore, from this point of view, it would be correct
to say that the ultimate reality in the Bahá’í Writings is describable
in terms that are strongly similar used by some Buddhists to describe
‘ultimate reality.’ It is permanent, which is to say, it is the one ‘thing’
not dependent on dependent arising, while, at the same time, all
other things depend on it. In other words, it is absolutely
unconditioned by others while conditioning everything else. This
means that the ultimate reality is non-relative, or absolute.
Moreover,
it
is
impersonal,
supersensuous,
extra-temporal,
indeterminate and not accessible to reason beyond establishing the
fact of its ‘presence.’78
An important question remains with us: is Hegel’s ‘nothing’ —
which is equivalent to pure being — psychological or ontological in
nature? In other words, is it an artefact of our limited human point
of view for which the lack of all attributes is equivalent to nothing,
or is it or does it refer to something real.79 The answer for Hegel is
that, in the last analysis, there is no ultimate distinction between the
psychological and the ontological for the nature of the entire world-
process is epistemological, which is to say, the Absolute Spirit comes
to recognise itself through evolution and especially through the
evolution of human consciousness.80 In Bahá’í ontology matters
stand differently. From the human station or point of view, this
identity of God’s ‘nothingness’ and His ‘pure being’ is absolutely
real: that consequence cannot be logically escaped once we recognise
the complete unknowability of God. As the Writings say, even
“existence and non-existence are both relative.” (SAQ 281) From this
we may conclude that things are real or unreal depending on the
station from which they are viewed:81
The existence of beings in comparison with the existence
of God is but illusion and nothingness; it is an appearance,
like the image reflected in a mirror . . . Then it is evident that
although beings in relation to the existence of God have no

Bahá’í Ontology

existence, but are like the mirage or the reflections in the
mirror, yet in their own degree they exist. (SAQ 278)
Humankind thus has a double nature: vis-à-vis God, humankind is
nothingness, but vis-à-vis itself, ”in [its] own degree,” humankind
exists. It is our contention that a similar situation prevails in regards
to the ‘nothingness’ of God in regard to His unknowability. From
the human station, God’s unknowability logically leads to our
understanding of His ‘nothingness’ or emptiness, voidness, or even
open-ness. However, we must remind ourselves that emptiness is not
absolutely nothing; rather, it is the condition that allows all other
things to exist in the same way that space conditions and allows a
sculpture to exist. It permeates all things even as the Writings say,
“No thing have I perceived, except that I perceived God within it,
God before it, or God after it.” (GWB 178) Indeed, He is closer to us
than our life-vein though He is at the same time, infinitely far or
‘other’ from us.82 However, the God Who is thus ‘perceived’ is the
God Whose essential unknowability causes human being to perceive
Him as an emptiness or nothingness that at the same time, somehow
is. Thus, a Hegelian, that is, dialectical analysis of God’s
unknowability allows us to narrow the distance between God as
presented in the Bahá’í Writings and the Buddhist, specifically
Mahayana concept of the ultimate reality as emptiness or void.
A Cautionary Note
At this point several remarks are in order. First, a cautionary note
that we do not intend to claim that the Bahá’í Writings somehow
reflect the entire dialectical ontology of Hegel. They do not. For
example, the Bahá’í Writings cannot accept Hegel’s belief that God,
or Spirit, becomes conscious of Itself through natural and human
history. Second, the Writings do not present us with a fully
developed dialectical ontology such as we see in Hegel. However,
they do, in fact, provide the basis for a dialectical ontology through
the philosophy of potentials and the necessity of change and motion.
Third, the Writings provide a corrective to Hegel because they see
the love of God, not contradiction or negativity, as the ultimate
motive power for cosmic evolution. Internal contradiction and
alienation are only the means by which the love of God makes itself
felt within creation; they are only the conditions that make possible
the eternal movement of love towards God. Thus, they are a
necessary but not sufficient condition for the evolution of nature
and human consciousness. A greater, all-transcendent positive
Attractor is needed to motivate things to overcome their internal
contradictions in order to reach It. Moreover, by the same token,
there must be an innate desire for God in all things — which makes

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

desire an important aspect of the dialectic. Of course, this desire is
only conscious in humankind.
Social Dialectic
There is one other place where a dialectical ontology appears in
the Bahá’í Writings. According to Abdu’l-Bahá,
all souls [must] become as one soul, and all hearts as one
heart. Let all be set free from the multiple identities that
were born of passion and desire, and in the oneness of their
love for God find a new way of life. (SWAB 76)
Bahá’u’lláh writes,
He Who is your Lord, the All-Merciful, cherisheth in His
heart the desire of beholding the entire human race as one
soul and one body. (GWB 214)
Here, too, we see the outlines of a dialectical philosophy at work.
In this dialectic, the self encounters the other, the stranger, as a
negation or contradiction to its own being. In order to overcome
this estrangement, the self may ‘incorporate’ the other in some way
such as by having power over it — a strategy which risks unleashing a
power struggle — and, according to Hegel’s The Phenomenology of
Spirit, inevitably does.83 Either by incorporating or being
incorporated, either by being a master or a slave, a new synthesis is
formed. However, neither Hegel nor the Writings regard this
situation as desirable, so there is a third option, which, according to
the Writings involves the sacrifice of one’s various Attributes or
identities “born of passion and desire” (SWAB 76) and seek a higher
unity — and, through that, a higher identity — in “their love for
God.” (SWAB 76) In effect, this refocusing on God, short-circuits the
earthly dialectic of self and other, of master and slave84 or self and
contradiction, by setting up the love for God as the catalyst for a
spiritual synthesis in which the self would be recontextualised by
God’s love and sublimated or reconstituted in a higher form.
It is important to emphasise that the individual is not lost in this
higher synthesis, but rather maintains his identity in a higher form by
overcoming the otherness of his negation, which is to say, by seeing
the light of the one-ness of God, or the Manifestation in the other
person as suggested by the following:
If any differences arise amongst you, behold Me standing
before your face, and overlook the faults of one another
for My name's sake and as a token of your love for My
manifest and resplendent Cause. (GWB 315)
In this way, the individual also re-discovers himself in the other,
he discovers his own spiritual potentials in another and thus, by

Bahá’í Ontology

uniting with the other in the higher synthesis of Bahá’u’lláh’s
revelation and its community, regains himself in a higher, sublimated
form. Paradoxically he retains his identity at a higher level by losing
it at a lower level: “For whosoever will save his life shall lose it: but
whosoever will lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it.”85
Because the process we have described is, goes on continuously it
also challenges us to take our identity at least in part from this very
process of constantly re-discovering ourselves through others in the
higher synthesis of the Bahá’í revelation and its community. To put
it succinctly, our identity is not a destination but a journey.
This concludes the second instalment of our initial reconnaissance
of Bahá’í ontology.

NOTES
1 Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy; Oxford Companion to Philosophy.
2 Martin Heidegger, An Introduction to Metaphysics 1.
3 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet of the Universe. Original Tablet in Makatib-i
‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
vol.
1,
pp
13-32.
Anonymous
Translation.
http://bahai-library.com/?file=abdulbaha_lawh_aflakiyyih
4 In the language of the Plato-Aristotle-Plotinus (P-A-P) tradition
found throughout the Writings, the individual has no substance.
Substance does not refer to matter but to intrinsic identity distinct
from an entity’s relationship to its surroundings.
4 In regards to the non-substantialist nature of Buddhism, see for
example “A Review of Pali Buddhism”, ed. by Hoffmann and
Mahinda, reviewed by Anne Blackburn in “The Journal of Buddhist
Ethics” Vol. 5, 1998 at http://jbe.gold.ac.uk/5/blackburn1.html;
David Edward Shaner see also the “Bodymind Experience in Japanese
Buddhism: A Phenomenological Study of Kuukai and Doogen”, in
Philosophy
East
and
West,Vol.39
(1989.01)
http://ccbs.ntu.edu.tw/FULLTEXT/JR-PHIL/ew033311.htm

6 Alan Sponberg, “The Buddhist Conception of an Ecological Self,” in
The
Western
Buddhist
Review,
Vol.
2,
http://www.westernbuddhistreview.com/vol2/ecological_self.html
7 Inada, “The Range of Buddhist Ontology,” in Philosophy East and
West, 38:3 (7/1988), p. 264. http://ccbs.ntu.edu.tw/FULLTEXT/JR-
PHIL/inada4.htm
8 P.A Payuto, Dependent Origination: The Buddhist Law of Condition-
ality, http://www.geocities.com/Athens/Academy/9280/coarise.htm
9 Payuto, Dependent Origination: The Buddhist Law of Conditionality.
10 Payuto, Dependent Origination: The Buddhist Law of Conditionality.
11 Inada, “The Range of Buddhist Ontology.
12 Inada, “The Range of Buddhist Ontology.
13 Sponberg, “The Buddhist Conception of an Ecological Self,”
14 Payuto, Dependent Origination: The Buddhist Law of Conditionality.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven


15 Payuto, Dependent Origination: The Buddhist Law of Conditionality.
16 Jones, “Buddhism and Social Action: An Exploration” in “The Wheel”,
No.
285/286
available
at
http://accesstoinsight.org/lib/bps/wheels/wheel285.html
17 Payuto, Dependent Origination: The Buddhist Law of Conditionality.
18 Sponberg, “The Buddhist Conception of an Ecological Self.”
19 Sponberg, “The Buddhist Conception of an Ecological Self.”
20 Aristotle, Metaphysics VII, I, 1028a-b.
21 Payuto, Dependent Origination: The Buddhist Law of Conditionality.
22 Payuto, Dependent Origination: The Buddhist Law of Conditionality.
23 This often leads to phenomenalism, the position that all we can know
are phenomena or appearances.
24 By contrast we have (a) a real distinction, between two separable
things — such as the two parts of a scissor and (b) a purely mental
or conceptual distinction such as between Socrates’ animality and
his humanity, or between a painting as a formal arrangement of
color and as a social document reflecting its time. Some see mental
distinctions as applying only to objects of thought such as the
moral, economic and psychological aspects of money. There is a
long-standing controversy about the formal distinction.
25 “Intrinsic identity” in Aristotelian terms is ‘substance,’ that is, an
object with “intrinsic identity” possesses attributes but is not itself
a property of anything else.
26 Payuto, Dependent Origination: The Buddhist Law of Conditionality.
27 “Rebirth,” by Percy Nanayakkara http://sibv.org/bv15.htm. Cf. “Lastly
a word about ‘free will': will is not something static. It is not a pos-
itive entity, or a self-existent thing. Will is quite momentary like any
other mental state; there is, therefore, no 'will' as a 'thing' to be either
free or not free. The truth is that 'will' is conditioned and a passing
phenomenon” in Piyadassi Thera, “The Law of Cause and Effect.”
http://buddhistinformation.com/law_of_cause_and_effect.htm
“Paticcasamuppada”
in
Nyanatiloka,
A
Buddhist
Dictionary,
http://palikanon.com/english/wtb/n_r/paticca_samuppaada.htm
29 See my “The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’íWritings” in “Lights
of Irfan IV.”
30 A similar situation exists with Whitehead’s Aristotle-based process
philosophy. See William A Christian
An Interpretation of
Whitehead’s Metaphysics 115-116.
31 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet of the Universe.
32 Some Answered Questions 69, 201; The Promulgation of Universal
Peace 77; Paris Talks 17.
33 Some Answered Questions 162. The four causes given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
confirm Aristotle’s material, efficient, final and formal cause.
34 The Promulgation of Universal Peace 79; Some Answered Questions
129; Bahá’í World Faith 344.

Bahá’í Ontology


35 The Promulgation of Universal Peace 309.
36 Hegel, Encyclopedia Para.88, (4).
37 Metaphysics XII, 7, 1072a.
38 Hegel, Encyclopedia, Para. 119.
39 Hegel, Encyclopedia Para.81 (2).
40 Hegel, Encyclopedia Para.81 (2).
41 Hegel, Encyclopedia Note to Para.81 (1).
42 Hegel, Encyclopedia, Note to Para 81, (1).
43 Although this triad is used to describe Hegel’s dialectic, he never
actually used ‘synthesis’ and ‘thesis’ himself, though he did refer to a
triad in the dialectic.
44 Hegel, Science of Logic, Bk II, “The Doctrine of Essence”, 414;
emphasis added.
45 Hegel, Science of Logic, Bk I, “The Doctrine of Being”, 136-137.
46 Hegel’s term , see for example, Encyclopedia, Para. 204.
47 Hegel, Phenomenology of Spirit, Para 206, p. 126.
48 Hegel, Science of Logic, Para.119.
49 Hegel, Phenomenology of Spirit, Para.228, p.137.
50 Hegel, Phenomenology of Spirit, Para 229, 137; emphasis in original.
51 Hegel, Phenomenology of Spirit, Para 229, 137.
52 Hegel, Phenomenology of Spirit, Para 229, 138.
53 See my “Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance” for evidence for
the realist nature of the philosophy embedded in the Writings.
54 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XXVII, 66.
55 Aristotle, Metaphysics, XII, 7, 1072a, b.
56 Luke 9:24.
57 Hegel, The Science of Logic 133.
58 Science of Logic 136.
59 Science of Logic 134.
60 See above page 14 and also my “Reason and Faith in the Bahá’í
Writings” for a detailed exposition of this topic.
61 See section 10 of “Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance” at
http://geocities.com/iankluge/ontology_complete.html or Lights of
Irfan, Book Six.
62 The last sentence is repeated in the Kitáb-i-ˆqán, 102.
63 See Kluge, “The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’íWritings”
Section
4.2.
in
“Lights
of
Irfan
IV”
and
at
http://www.geocities.com/iankluge/aristotle.html
64 Copelston, SJ, A History of Philosophy Vol. 7, Pt. 1, 230.
65 Some Answered Questions 129.
66 The Promulgation of Universal Peace 240.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven


67 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablet of the Universe; emphasis added. Original Tablet
in Makatib-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, vol. 1, pp 13-32. Anonymous translation.
http://bahai-library.com/?file=abdulbaha_lawh_aflakiyyih
68 Plato, The Republic VI 507b — 509c.
69 Otherwise, why would Bahá’u’lláh reveal petitionary prayers? Why
bother if God can’t hear or answer?
70 See for example John Cobb Jr.’s A Christian Natural Theology based
on Whitehead; also Aquinas, Summa Contra Gentiles II.
71 The Promulgation of Universal Peace 46. See my article “Reason and
Faith in the Bahá’íWritings.”
72 Summa Theologica I-II, Q.90, A.I.
73 Plotinus, The Enneads VI, 8, Sec.7; see also Aristotle, Metaphysics
XII, 7, 1072a.
74 Plotinus, The Enneads VI, 8, Sec.7; see also Aristotle, Metaphysics
XII, 7, 1072a.
75 Science of Logic 82.
76 “Barry D. Smith, “The Philosophical Basis of Mahayana Buddhism,”
http://www.abu.nb.ca/Courses/GrPhil/EPhil/Ephind.htm
77 “Emptiness and Existence” by Tenzin Gyatso, His Holiness the 14th
Dalai Lama. http://www.katinkahesselink.net/tibet/dalai2.html
78 See T R V Murti, The Central Philosophy of Buddhism and David
Kalupahana Buddhist Philosophy: A Historical Analysis for two
strong and clear contrasting statements about the idea of ultimate
reality in Buddhism.
79 See again, the Dalai Lama’s statement that emptiness is not nothing.
See footnote 184.
80 A History of Philosophy 227; 208, 205.
81 This should not be confused with a free-wheeling relativism which
mistakes the recognition of various stations or perspectives with
the assertion that all viewpoints are equally correct.
82 Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh XCIII 185.
83 See the struggle as to who will become master and who is to be slave
in Hegel’s The Phenomenology of Spirit, Para. 178 ff. Baillie and
Miller translate this as the “lordship-bondage” struggle.
84 The Phenomenology of Spirit, Para 178ff.
85 Luke 9:24.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Aristotle. Metaphysics. Trans by W.D. Ross. Chicago. Encyclopedia
Britannica 1971
`Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablet of the Universe. Original Tablet in Makatib-i
‘Abdu’l-Bahá,
vol.
1,
pp
13-32.
Anonymous
Translation.
http://bahai-library.com/?file=abdulbaha_lawh_aflakiyyih

Bahá’í Ontology


Berthold-Bond, D. Hegel’s Grand Synthesis. New York. State University
of New York Press, 1989.
Copelston SJ, F. A History of Philosophy Vol 7, Pt. 1. New York: Image
Books, 1965.
Hegel,
G
W
F.
Encyclopedia.
Trans.
By
William
Wallace.
http://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/hegel/
———. The Phenomonology of Spirit. Trans. by A.V. Miller. Oxford:
Oxford University Press 1977.
———. The Science of Logic. Trans. By AV Miller. New York: Humanity
Books 1999.
Huntington C W. The Emptiness of Emptiness. Honolulu: University of
Hawaii Press 1989.
Inada, Kenneth. “The Range of Buddhist Ontology,” in Philosophy East
and
West,
Vol.
38,
No.
3,
July
1988,
p.
264.
http://ccbs.ntu.edu.tw/FULLTEXT/JR-PHIL/inada4.htm
Inwood, Michael. A Hegel Dictionary. Malden: Blackwell Publishers,
1999.
Kalupahana, David. Buddhist Philosophy: A Historical Analysis.
Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press 1976.
Murti, T R V. The Central Philosophy of Buddhism. London: George
Allen and Unwin, 1960.
Payutto,
P.A.
Dependent
Origination:
The
Buddhist
Law
of
Conditionality,
available
at
http://www.geocities.com/Athens/Academy/9280/coarise.htm
Plato. The Republic in The Essential Plato. Trans. by Jowett and
McKnight. New York: Quality Paperback Book Club 1999.
Plotinus. The Enneads. Trans. by Stpehen McKenna. Toronto: Penguin
Books 1991.
Piyadassi M. The Spectrum of Buddhism. Taipei: Corporate Body of the
Buddha Educational Foundation, 1999.
Schuhmacher, S. ed. The Encyclopedia of Eastern Religion and
Philosophy. Boston: Shambala 1994.
Sponberg, Alan. “The Buddhist Conception of an Ecological Self,” in
The
Western
Buddhist
Review,
Vol.
2,
http://www.westernbuddhistreview.com/vol2/ecological_self.html
Suzuki, D.T. Outlines of Mahayana Buddhism. New York: Schocken
Books, 1963.
Taylor, Charles. Hegel. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1995.

“The newly born babe of that Day”
Mysticism in the Age of the Maturity of
Humankind
Julio Savi
One of the sundry classifications of mysticism suggested by
Western scholars describes a mysticism of nascent religions, and a
mysticism of periods of spiritual decline.1 The former is
characterized by “an emotion which no one could escape,” in a time
when “all were so deeply concerned with religion that we should say:
all were mystic” (Sudbrack 13). The latter is born from “the awareness
that beliefs have lost their meanings” (Beaude 37) and from the
resulting “intense tension between faith in the Ineffable and the
instruments offered by religion” (Beaude 98). In both cases mysticism
seemingly characterizes souls endowed with a greater capacity to
receive spiritual influences than others. In the former case, mystics
are the first to perceive the earliest signs of the new spiritual
springtime; in the latter case, they suffer more than the others
because of the deadening harshness of the spiritual winter.
The transition from the former form of mysticism, widely shared
by the whole religious community, which is the first outward fruit
of the teachings of each Manifestation of God, to the second one,
an elite that is often viewed as a “denial of the religious component”
(Beaude 102) of spirituality, seemingly depends on a gradual
departure of religious communities from the spirit of the original
teachings that has characterized in various degrees and in different
ages the history of all great religions. This departure appears to cause
the souls endowed with greater spiritual capacities to become
isolated. The most evident reasons of this departure and isolation are
four: the intrinsic human imperfection, the progressive maturation
of humankind, the relativity of Revelation, and the cyclicity of the
spiritual evolution of humankind.
The intrinsic human imperfection
‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes that “self-love is kneaded into the very clay
of man” (SDC 96). Therefore man “can flutter along for some short
distance, into the endless vast; but he can never soar upward to the
Sun in the high heavens” (SWAB 47). This imperfection implies that
human beings may apprehend God’s “purpose only to the extent of
their station and spiritual capacity” (GWB 77). This limited

Mysticism in the age of the maturity

understanding, in its turn, leads, in the course of time, to an
unavoidable gap between Religion in its spiritual or metaphysical
essence, and religion in its historical or physical manifestation, that
is, what human beings did with the original message of that
Religion. Being endowed with a greater capacity for understanding
the spiritual reality of religion than others, mystics cannot adapt
themselves to the flaws of the historical reality of religion, during
those times when those flaws are fundamental.
The progressive maturation of humankind
Humankind as a whole is often compared by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to an
individual human being, who goes through different ages, from
“protoplasm” (PUP 359) to adulthood (SWAB 285). These words
seemingly imply that, although humankind is intrinsically imperfect,
still it is going through an ongoing perfecting process.2 Therefore,
since “human beings are, by their very nature, different one from
the other,” and their diversity is due to both “differences of degree
which are innate” (CC 1:258) and capacities that have been developed
through personal efforts, in a period of spiritual decline a mystic,
who has greater spiritual capacities than most of her fellow persons,
may be projected towards spiritual goals that seem incomprehensible
to her contemporaries.
The relativity of Revelation
Although the Manifestation of God is omniscient, yet He reveals
a body of teachings adequate to the maturity of those human beings
he has come to educate. But since Revelation is relative, in the
course of time the revealed teachings that are specifically related to
contingent circumstances of time and place become obsolete,
because in the meantime humankind has developed. And thus those
teachings do not satisfy the mystics, endowed as they are with
greater spiritual capacities than the others. For these reasons, in a
period of spiritual decline, when the teachings of the Manifestation
of God have already given their fruits, a mystic may be endowed
with spiritual capacities that project him towards spiritual goals
which his organized religion cannot even conceive.
The cyclicity of the spiritual evolution of humankind
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains:
In this material world time has cycles; places change
through alternating seasons . . . At one time it is the season of
spring; at another it is the season of autumn; and again it is
the season of summer or the season of winter . . . It is the same
with the spiritual cycles of the Prophets . . . they are always
revolving and being renewed. (SAQ 73, 74, 76; cf. PUP 94-5)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Each spiritual springtime has therefore its winter. Bahá’u’lláh
seemingly describes this spiritual winter as a time of “oppression.”
He writes: “What ‘oppression’ is more grievous than that a soul
seeking the truth, and wishing to attain unto the knowledge of God,
should know not where to go for it and from whom to seek it?” (KI
31) Joseph Beaude, a researcher at the French CNRS (Centre
National de la Recherche Scientifique) who specialized in studies of
the 16th and 17th centuries, describes the experiences of the
European mystics of the 16th and 17th centuries, which he considers
a time of “neglect by the Christian institution” (93), as “experiences
of upset and dispossessed souls, tried by an absence, that is, the loss
of what in former days has been seen as the foundation of all
certitudes” (92), souls that “regard exile as their country, and
endeavor to translate their language of exiled peoples into the
language of the surrender to the Other” (93). He writes that they
“speak the language of the night,” which they “draw and accept
from the cultural and religious conditions of their world” (98).
Features of the ancient Dispensations
If we keep in mind these considerations, we may more easily
understand
a
number of
historical
facts of
the
ancient
Dispensations. First, none of the ancient Manifestations clearly
conferred the infallibility to a successor and an interpreter, to whom
the community of believers would be expected to turn. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá says that in the past
many of the holy beings who were not dawning-points of
the Most Great Infallibility, were yet kept and preserved
from error under the shadow of the protection and
guardianship of God, for they were the mediators of grace
between God and men. If God did not protect them from
error, their error would cause believing souls to fall into
error, and thus the foundation of the Religion of God
would be overturned, which would not be fitting nor
worthy of God. (SAQ 172)
But the “acquired” or “conferred” (SAQ 173, 174) infallibility of
those “holy beings” was not openly proclaimed by the Manifestation
of God in front of everyone. This fact was conducive to early
divisions within the ancient religions and thus to a departure from
the spirit of the original teachings. Shoghi Effendi said, as to the
succession in Christianity:
The real reason why Christ did not make some explicit
statement regarding His succession is not known, and
cannot be known . . . The utmost we can do is to give some

Mysticism in the age of the maturity

explanations, but these must necessarily fail to give the
fundamental reason to the problem we seek to solve.”3
Therefore, we can only hypothesize that one of the reasons of this
uncertainty as to the succession in the ancient Dispensations is the
characteristics of those remote ages, and that this fact may have
something to do with the concept of the relativity of Revelation.
Second, the ancient Manifestations of God have revealed
teachings that a posteriori seem to deny a concept explained by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, that is, that “every universal cause is divine and every
particular one is temporal,” and thus the teachings of the
Manifestations of God are always “all-universal and all-inclusive”
and “in the service of universal education” (SWAB 68-9). For
example, the position of women has always been, although partially,
subordinated to that of men. For another example, a relentless fight
against idolaters has been prescribed, especially in the two primary
monotheisms, that is, Judaism and Islam. In the light of the concept
of progressive Revelation, the prescriptions that today seem a
discrimination against women may have been in reality a protection
of their lesser physical strength in front of men, in a society
ruthlessly ruled by the struggle for existence. And the unrelenting
fight against idolaters may be justified by the need to inculcate the
concept of monotheism, in a world in which this idea was not yet
part of a shared cultural legacy.
The progressive maturation of humankind is thus conducive to
an increasing gap between the spiritual potentialities of human
beings and the social teachings of the Manifestations of God.
Moreover the exploitation of the religious message by people
subjected to the dictates of their lower selves, in the absence of a
centre of authority clearly appointed by the Manifestation of God, is
conducive to a chasm between the spiritual understanding of the
teachings of the Manifestations of God by people endowed with
greater spiritual capacities, like the mystics, and the understanding
shared by the majority of people. Therefore the mystics of the
periods of spiritual decline become estranged from the human,
outward aspect of religion and turn towards its spiritual, inward
aspect.
The mystics of the times of spiritual decline manifest this
estrangement from the masses in several ways. In their relation with
the Manifestation of God, they prefer his union with God, rather
then his relations with human beings. Moreover, since the mystics
perceive the flaws of organized religion, they are inclined to
dispense with its function as an intermediary. Therefore, as Beaude
puts it, on the one hand mysticism has been viewed as a “denial of
the religious component” and of its claim to bestow “the means

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

whereby one may be ‘reconnected with’” (102) God, and on the other,
“the harshest blame put on the mystics came from the devoted” (100).
Prevented from expressing themselves freely in a world,
dominated by ideas they do not approve and critical against them,
mystics take refuge in the secret of their hearts. Thus they adopt
initiatory and occult attitudes, to protect themselves from the
official religion, usually entrenched in exclusivist and absolutist
positions. Mystics also devote themselves to the quest for impossible
inner experiences, and unlikely descriptions, of transcendence, in the
hope to find there a comfort for their loneliness and a balm for the
bitterness of their spiritually oppressed souls. This is the origin of
certain mystic theologies, sometimes conflicting with the official
ones, and of the search after a consolatory ecstatic union, in times
when very few outer traces of the presence of God can be detected
in the religious community.
Mysticism in the history of the Bahá’í Faith
As to the history of the Bahá’í Faith, the mysticism of nascent
religions can be easily identified in the narratives of its early days.
Shoghi Effendi said that “the true mysticism, and the secret, inner
meaning of life which humanity has at present, drifted so far from”
may be found in the communion with “the Souls of the
Manifestations,” achieved by the martyrs, that “brought them such
ecstasy of joy that life became nothing.”4 And the Bahá’í
martyrology is particularly rich and documented, and it is not yet
concluded. Mystical episodes are referred in God Passes By (cf. 152-5)
and in the Dawn-Breakers. The ongoing persecutions against the
Bahá’ís in Iran and the recent martyrdoms in that country, as well as
the numberless episodes of sacrifice and selflessness characterizing
Bahá’í service throughout the world, confirm that nascent mysticism
is still alive in the Bahá’í community.
If we want to attain a better understanding of the present and
future developments of Bahá’í mysticism, it may be useful trying to
hypothesize which are the implications of the above mentioned
concepts for those developments. And thus we should remember
some of the fundamental differences between the Bahá’í and the
past dispensations. Whereas the ancient Manifestations appeared in
archaic epochs, Bahá’u’lláh has been defined as “the Prophet of
civilization” (Martin). Whereas the ancient Manifestations addressed
a humankind in its “long ages of infancy and childhood” (WOB 202),
Bahá’u’lláh announces “the coming of age of the human race” (WOB
206) and addresses a humankind in “the most turbulent stage of its
evolution, the stage of adolescence, when the impetuosity of youth
and its vehemence reach their climax, and must gradually be

Mysticism in the age of the maturity

superseded by the calmness, the wisdom, and the maturity that
characterize the stage of manhood” (WOB 202).We cannot yet fully
understand what this incipient maturity implies for the development
of the Bahá’í civilization, and thus of its mysticism. We can only
suggest a few hypotheses.
The intrinsic human imperfection will certainly persist, because
“Peter cannot become Christ” (SAQ 231). But undoubtedly, since
humankind’s perfecting process will continue, the level of
perfection accessible to human beings in the new Era will be higher
and higher. In this vein, Bahá’u’lláh wrote: “The station which he
who hath truly recognized this Revelation will attain is the same as
the one ordained for such prophets of the house of Israel as are not
regarded as Manifestations ‘endowed with constancy’” (WOB 111).
And the Báb said: “The newly born babe of that Day excels the
wisest and most venerable men of this time, and the lowliest and
most unlearned of that period shall surpass in understanding the
most erudite and accomplished divines of this age” (DB 93).
Progressive revelation and the cycles of humankind’s spiritual
evolution imply that the Bahá’í Faith will also have its winter. To
presume that the Bahá’í world will not experience any decline is
seemingly tantamount to stating that the Bahá’í Faith is also perfect
for a future humankind. This statement seems to be in conflict with
the concepts of the ongoing perfecting process of humankind and
of the relativity of Revelation taught by the Bahá’í Faith.
Bahá’u’lláh may allude to this concept when He writes that the
“‘oppression’” of spiritual winter is “the essential feature of every
Revelation. Unless it cometh to pass, the Sun of Truth will not be
made manifest. For the break of the morn of divine guidance must
needs follow the darkness of the night of error” (KI 31). Happily this
feature of each Revelation is our concern only because we want to
attain a better understanding of the great present opportunities,
because the Bahá’í winter seems to be still very far off. Of the
Manifestation that will come after Him, Bahá’u’lláh writes: “I am
not apprehensive for My own self . . . My fears are for Him Who will
be sent down unto you after Me” (WOB 117).5 That is, He seemingly
foresees that the Manifestation who will come after Him will be
persecuted by humankind, like those who came before Him. But the
Universal House of Justice has been ordained by God “as the source
of all good and freed from all error” (WT 14), as a fulfillment of the
promise of “the Day which shall not be followed by night” (SLH 34),
and thus described as “a continuing centre of divine guidance in the
world.”6 In the opinion of the writer, these words imply that the
Universal House of Justice will be infallible in the guidance of the
Bahá’í community for the entire course of the Bahá’í dispensation,
and deny the hypothesis that it will loose its “infallibility” as soon as

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

the next Manifestation exists on earth, otherwise its “Day” would
indeed be followed by “night.” Then who will persecute the future
Manifestation? The hypothesis may be suggested that the Universal
House of Justice will recognize and accept the next Manifestation.
This hypothesis is seemingly supported by the following statement
by the Supreme Body itself in its Constitution:
The provenance, the authority, the duties, the sphere of
action of the Universal House of Justice all derive from
the revealed Word of Bahá’u’lláh which, together with the
interpretations and expositions of the Centre of the
Covenant and of the Guardian of the Cause . . . constitute
the binding terms of reference of the Universal House of
Justice and are its bedrock foundation. The authority of
these Texts is absolute and immutable until such time as
Almighty God shall reveal His new Manifestation to
Whom will belong all authority and power. (CUHJ 4)
And thus the mystics of the Bahá’í winter will seemingly always find
a comfort for their loneliness and a balm for the bitterness of their
spiritually oppressed souls in their Supreme Body, that in that far off
“Day of Judgment” will commit them into the hands of the new
Manifestation, together with their own spiritual mandate. And, the
persecutions against that future Manifestation — and almost
certainly against the mystics who will follow it — will be perpetrated
by an unspiritual society that will disregard the guidance of the
infallible Universal House of Justice. As to us today, whatever may
be the conditions of society at large, or the level of maturity of our
specific Bahá’í communities, we still have the great privilege of
living in days of full springtime, when the Sun of Truth shines in its
full splendor and the whole community does its best to follow the
Centre of the Covenant infallibly guiding it towards that Sun. All
that is required is the spiritual capacity to perceive the great
opportunities of the present day.
The Bahá’í Revelation “vouchsafed unto men in direct
proportion to their spiritual capacity” (GWB 87), which is today the
capacity of an incipient maturity, is free from many of the flaws
that in the past religions implied an early departure from the reality
of religion and the development of spiritually unacceptable outward
attitudes, like dogmatism, ritualism, exclusivism and, most of all,
sectarianism. In particular, the authenticity of the Covenant
regarding the succession and the interpretation of Scripture; the
proscription of “such ordinances as holy war, destruction of books,
the ban on association and companionship with other peoples or on
reading certain books,” which in the ancient religions “had been laid
down and affirmed according to the exigencies of the time” (TB 28);
the fact that “Bahá’u’lláh has reduced all ritual and form to an

Mysticism in the age of the maturity

absolute minimum in His Faith,”7 and the concept that “rigidity and
rituals should be strictly avoided”;8 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s authoritative
interpretations of the spiritual topics of divine philosophy; Shoghi
Effendi’s
authoritative
interpretations
of
institutional
and
“political” issues; and last but not least the “clear distinction . . . drawn
in the Bahá’í Writings between authoritative interpretation and the
understanding that each individual arrives at from a study of its
Teachings” (KA note #130) — all these features of the Bahá’í
Revelation are brand new in the history of religion. The power of
the Covenant and the warnings against rituals exclude any
dichotomy between mystical and institutional aspects of religion,
typical of dogmatism and ritualism. The proscription of the above
mentioned ancient ordinances and the proclamation of the oneness
of humankind imply that any feeling of superiority or hostility
against any sector of the human family, typical of exclusivism, is de-
legitimized. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s and Shoghi Effendi’s authoritative
interpretations of theological and institutional issues, a perennial
guidance for present and future students and scholars, as well as the
distinction between authoritative and personal interpretations,
exclude any possibility of sectarianism.
These aspects of the Bahá’í Revelation were mentioned only to
gain a clearer understanding of the present opportunities for
individual mystical seekers, who may feel free and assured, because
they are protected from some of the traps into which past mystics
fell, provided they abide by the revealed teachings.
The refusal of any mediator between God and
themselves
A number of mystics refused, and refuse, any mediator between
God and themselves, not even the Manifestation of God. The Bahá’í
position on this issue is very clear. Bahá’u’lláh unambiguously
explains that “the door of the knowledge of the Ancient of Days” is
“closed in the face of all beings” (KI 99), and that “by ‘attainment
unto the divine Presence’ is meant attainment unto the presence of
His Beauty in the person of His Manifestation” (KI 169). However,
when Bahá’u’lláh abolished the institution of the clergy, He
excluded any intermediary between God and human beings beside
the Manifestation of God and the Centre of the Covenant. It is not
a surprise, then, that Bahá’u’lláh writes: “whereas in days past every
lover besought and searched after his Beloved, it is the Beloved
Himself Who now is calling His lovers and is inviting them to attain
His presence.” In this Day “the anguish of . . . separation from Him”
that afflicted past mystics during periods of decline may be turned
“into the joy of an everlasting reunion” and “the bitterness of . . .
remoteness from His court” may be dissolved by “the sweetness of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

His presence” (GWB 319). And there is other good news. The
Manifestation of God has clearly conferred the infallibility to the
Centre of his Covenant and the line is indisputably uninterrupted,
albeit in different forms, through ‘Abdul-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi,
as well as through the Universal House of Justice. The Pole towards
which human being should orientate their practical efforts is not a
hidden pole, as it was the case, for example, with the Muslim
mystics, who were thus brought to search for an inward, occult,
relation with their Pole. Shoghi Effendi may have pointed out the
importance of the physical presence on the earth of the Centre of
the Covenant, when he made clear to a believer
that it is best to assume that generally speaking when
people
claim
they
are
receiving
messages
or
communications from the Master or Bahá’u’lláh, etc., it is
a psychic experience or their imagination, and that they are
not in real contact with them. These Holy Beings have the
channels of the Cause through which to guide us. They do
not need to go outside these and send individual
revelations;9
or when he informed the Bahá’ís that
he
never
secretly,
or
inwardly,
communicates
his
instructions to any believer . . . about the affairs of the
Cause; his instrument in these matters is the N.S.A.
[National Spiritual Assembly, the governing body of Bahá’í
national communities] . . . any one who thinks that he is
being directed by him in the inner plane is just deluding
himself and others . . . he answers . . . [the believers] in writing,
not psychically, whenever he wishes to do so.10
The issue becomes more difficult when, beside the Guardian and
the Universal House of Justice, that were incontrovertibly endowed
with the gift of the infallibility, other Institutions of the Bahá’í
Administrative Order that were not endowed with that gift, and that
are squarely recognized as imperfect and capable of becoming more
perfect, are mentioned. Shoghi Effendi said that the Bahá’í World
Order is “still embryonic, and as yet improperly understood”11 and
that “its institutions are not yet functioning perfectly.”12 However,
he underlined the great importance of upholding “the principle of
authority invested in our elected bodies.”13 In this case, the
imperfect yet perfectible Institutions are not to be obeyed as if they
were mediators between God and oneself. Only the Manifestation
and the Centre of the Covenant are mediators between God and the
believers. The Bahá’ís are called to abide by the teaching that the
unity of the community is more important than any other
consideration. This teaching was emphasized by Bahá’u’lláh himself

Mysticism in the age of the maturity

when he said to two groups, arguing about His station, as mentioned
by Shoghi Effendi, “that if they were united both sides were right
and if they were divided both were wrong.”14 The same teaching was
emphasized by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, when He wrote:
If they agree upon a subject, even though it be wrong, it is
better than to disagree and be in the right, for this
difference will produce the demolition of the divine
foundation. Though one of the parties may be in the right
and they disagree that will be the cause of a thousand
wrongs, but if they agree and both parties are in the wrong,
as it is in unity the truth will be revealed and the wrong
made right. (BWF 411)
The Bahá’ís are required “to master and follow the principles of
their divinely laid down Administrative Order.”15 This attitude is
strictly connected with a typical Bahá’í teaching: that the believers
“should endeavor to learn about Bahá’í laws and principles and
should, as a matter of conscience, endeavor to practice these to the
best of their ability.”16 The “Prophet of civilization” expects his
followers to have a high sense of their personal responsibility, a
sense of responsibility that is part of Bahá’í mysticism.
Heretical doctrines
The vigilance over the purity of the doctrine exercised by the
clergy, lest heresy should arise, in the past Dispensations may be
compared to the vigilance exercised by the Bahá’í Institutions lest
Covenant-breakers should impair the unity of the community. But
whereas in the past many heresies could flourish, today Covenant-
breakers have little hope to survive for very long, as history has
demonstrated. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá ascribes this fact to “the most great
characteristic of the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, a specific teaching
not given by any of the Prophets of the past . . . [that is] the
ordination and appointment of the Center of the Covenant,” which
safeguards and protects “the religion of God against differences and
schisms, making it impossible for anyone to create a new sect or
faction of belief” (PUP 455-6). Moreover, the teaching that human
understanding of the teachings of the Manifestation of God is
relative denies an undue importance to be ascribed to any
interpretation suggested by any human being, as esteemed and
honored he may be. In the synthetic words of the Universal House
of Justice: “Unity of doctrine is maintained by the existence of the
authentic texts of Scripture and the voluminous interpretations of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi, together with the absolute
prohibition against anyone propounding ‘authoritative’ or ‘inspired’
interpretations or usurping the function of Guardian” (MUHJ63 56).

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

If we add the prohibition of monasticism, with its specific rules, we
may come to the conclusion that the emergence of rigid mystical
schools, with their more or less unorthodox doctrines and specific
rituals, similar to those who appeared in the past, is quite unlikely in
a Bahá’í context.
A distinction between the kernel and the shell
Muslim mystics distinguished between the kernel and the shell of
religion, that is, between the outer aspects, related to the laws, and
the inner aspects, related to non ritual prayer, meditation and
contemplation. The concept whereby the inward aspects of religion
are superior to its outward aspects is present also in the Christian
world, as it is evident in the Pauline theology’s criticism against the
law. Bahá’u’lláh clarifies the importance of the law not only in the
Seven Valleys, when He states that the Law “is indeed the secret of
the ‘Path’ and the fruit of the Tree of ‘Truth’” (SV 40), but also in
the first paragraph of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, where He states that the
duties of recognizing the Manifestation of God and observing His
ordinances are “inseparable,” and that “neither is acceptable without
the other” (SV 19). The mystical path recommended by Bahá’u’lláh
consists thus in obeying the law for the love of God and using the
law as an instrument of inner purification, spiritual upliftment and
nearness to God, that is, as the main instrument for advancing on
the spiritual path. The seeker becomes purified through the grace of
God attracted by the efforts exerted to comply with the outward
law. Purification implies the development of spiritual capacities of
whose development the seeker may be wholly unaware (cf. GWB 295).
The development of spiritual capacities leads the seeker to draw
nearer to God, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explained: “nearness is likeness” (PUP
148). It is unlikely that future mystics may undervalue the
importance of abiding by the laws. They will certainly do their best
to keep alive the spirit of the obedience to the law, that is, for the
love of God, so that any externalism may be avoided.
Unduly speculative flights while attempting to
understand metaphysical issues
In the past the mystics of periods of spiritual decline produced
complicated, sometimes fanciful and unclear, theologies and
cosmologies, perhaps because their human imperfection and the
ineffability of the experiences which inspired them were not
sufficiently assisted by the words of the Revelation, conceived as
they were for an infant humankind. Bahá’u’lláh warn us to avoid
those kinds of speculations, when He recommends to study those
sciences that “can profit the peoples of the earth” and to keep away

Mysticism in the age of the maturity

from “those which begin with words and end with words” (TB 51-2).
And Shoghi Effendi explains that the “fruitless sciences” mentioned
by Bahá’u’lláh are “metaphysical hair-splittings, and other abstract
things carried to the extreme,”17 as well as those “those theological
treatises and commentaries that encumber the human mind rather
than help it to attain the truth.”18 Moreover, the contemplation of
the themes of transcendence were often viewed as the apex of
mysticism, whereas Bahá’u’lláh writes: “The conceptions of the
devoutest of mystics, the attainments of the most accomplished
amongst men, the highest praise which human tongue or pen can
render are all the product of man’s finite mind and are conditioned
by its limitations” (GWB 62). And yet He exhorted over and over His
followers to meditate on Scripture, revealed a number of deep
meditations on the topics of the ancient mysticism — as for example
Prayers and Meditations, nos. 38 and 178 — and revealed Tablets on
those topics, as for example the “Law˙-i-Kullu Ta‘am.” ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá advised spiritual seekers to study metaphysical questions, and
suggested a list of the important ones that should be studied.19 He
also said: “You cannot apply the name ‘man’ to any being void of
this faculty of meditation; without it he would be a mere animal,
lower than the beasts” (PT 54.10). He Himself wrote several Tablets
explaining metaphysical matters, as for example His “Commentary
on the Tradition: “I Was a Hidden Treasure (Tafsír-i-Kuntu Kanzan
Makhfíyyan),”
His
“Commentary
on
the
Qur’ánic
Verses
Concerning the Overthrow of the Byzantines” (cf. Momen), or His
“Tablet of the Universe (Law˙-i-Aflakiyyih).”
Apparently the Bahá’ís are not discouraged to study and meditate
on metaphysical problems in themselves. They are discouraged to do
it adopting the methods and the aims of the ancient mystics. And
the Bahá’í Writings suggest new methods and different aims: the
Faith of civilization differs from past religions in this respect as
well. In the theoretical perspective, Bahá’í Scripture encourages the
seekers to pursue the mystical path. But the “steed” and the goal of
the mystical journey, that is annihilation in God, is service, described
as the highest way of life on earth: gradually overcoming the
limitations of the self through one’s submission to His law for the
love of God. And His law prescribes that the collective wellbeing of
humankind should be promoted. Therefore Bahá’í mystics are active
Bahá’ís, who “love all the world . . . love humanity and try to serve it . . .
work for universal peace and universal brotherhood.”20 In a practical
perspective, the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh on these issues and the
authoritative interpretations by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá offer a method and an
orientation that are precious for the lovers of this kind of study.
And it seems that more and more Bahá’ís will devote themselves to
this kind of study and activity as time goes by. Last but not least, the
explanations of institutional and “political” issues by Shoghi Effendi

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

and the infallible guidance of the Universal House of Justice seem a
sufficient
guarantee
against
the
useless
verbosity
and
inconclusiveness of the past.
Aristocratic and initiatory attitudes
Mystical quest has always been an elite, aristocratic activity. The
reasons of this fact seem to be fundamentally two. On the one hand,
in the past, because of the inferior collective maturity of
humankind, only a few had the capacity to follow the difficult path
of the mystical quest, so much so in its theological and philosophical
aspects. On the other, the elitist selection of the mystics was favored
by the initiatory methods they were obliged to adopt, if the secrecy
of the results of their quest had to be preserved in their dangerous
religio-social milieu — a milieu in which the physical absence of a
spiritual Centre clearly appointed by the Manifestation and the
power seized by individuals who were more interested in power itself
than in the spiritual guidance of the community implied a blind
conformism, that was in conflict with the aspirations of the mystics.
It is unlikely that these conditions may ever prevail in the new
Dispensation. Bahá’u’lláh proclaims: “The mystic and wondrous
Bride, hidden ere this beneath the veiling of utterance, hath now, by
the grace of God and His divine favor, been made manifest even as
the resplendent light shed by the beauty of the Beloved” (HW 51-2).
These words by Bahá’u’lláh imply at least three important facts:
first, all people “that are in heaven and on earth” have received the
“divine favor”; second, the interpretive key of the mystical language
used by the ancient Manifestations has been revealed by the Prophet
of civilization, in such precious books and Tablets as the Kitáb-i-
ˆqán; and third, the new religious Institutions have such a clear
divinely-revealed foundation, that there cannot be doubt as to their
legitimate authority to guide the human “endeavors in the path of
detachment.” The Administrative Order of the new Dispensation,
with its perfect fusion of the best aspects of the three forms of
government described by Aristotle as well as of theocracy, “cannot
ever degenerate into any form of despotism, of oligarchy, or of
demagogy which must sooner or later corrupt the machinery of all
man-made and essentially defective political institutions” (WOB 154).
The mystical path is opened in front of all human beings and its
Pole, the Centre of the Covenant, will remain visible and intact for
the whole course of the Dispensation. Obviously this does not mean
that all Bahá’ís will achieve the same level of spirituality. In this
vein, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has reportedly said: “even in this great cycle it is
not possible for all to attain the highest” (ADP 55).

Mysticism in the age of the maturity

The search for mystical experiences
Many experts have described mysticism in terms of mystical
experience, an experience that, by definition, “defies expression,”
because “no adequate report of its contents can be given in words”
(James 367). Shoghi Effendi has given a new meaning and value to
these so called mystical experiences. He said that they are very rare
and independent of the human will, and discouraged anyone from
seeking them. In other words, the goal of the mystical quest
described in the Writings is not having a mystical experience in its
traditional meaning, but coming closer to God, in one’s “likeness” to
Him. In other words, the goal of the mystical quest is the
development of one’s spiritual capacities through, and in view of,
service. Bausani quotes a Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh, translated by
himself:
Open thy spiritual wings and soar through all the spiritual
kingdoms with the swiftness of a lightning. Fling wide
open the vision of the eyes and regard the grace of the
invisible world. If thou throwest mud into the water it
sinks, but if thou depositest a rose into it, it remains like a
crown floating upon it: i.e., Ωáhir and baqá (exteriority and
permanence) are better than bá†in and faná’ (interiority
and annihilation). In other words weight is the cause of
sinking, therefore thou must free thyself from the weight
of possessions and, like a rose, in this very bodily frame
float through eternity upon the surface of earthly
dominions. (5)21
Bausani interprets this passage as “a very fine criticism of that
system or those systems of religious mysticism (so frequent in
oriental countries and often a cause of decay for those peoples),
which assume that sinking into oneself, shutting one’s eyes to every
exterior reality” and as “a religious indication of exotericism and
activity against the exaggerated importance given by almost all
religions to meditation and annihilation.” Bausani remarks that ““too
often pseudoreligious persons, imagining they are deeply sinking
into unheard of spiritual abysses, do nothing more than mix up their
own subconscious and unconscious zones . . . Only God . . . speaking
through his Manifestations can inspire humanity with creative
thoughts, which result in creative action” (5).
The search for so called charismas
Another aspect of traditional mysticism, strictly related to the
previous one, and typical of Christian mysticism, is the undue
importance ascribed to the so called charismas, that is, those special
powers, as for example thaumaturgical powers, ascribed to the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

saints, that should be the quintessence of mysticism. The Bahá’í
position on this issue is serenely rational, and it is expounded in a
Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh, “The Book of the River (Sa˙ífiy-i-
Sha††íyyih),” Nader Saiedi, who published a provisional translation
of this Tablet, writes that this Tablet explains that
human reason is incapable of comprehending any
phenomenon independent of experience and observation.
If it were not for that actual experience and observation,
human reason would not believe in the existence of any
phenomenon. If the rationalist argument for the rejection
of miracles attributed to the former Prophets were true,
then the reality of all natural phenomena must be rejected
as well. (31)
Obviously, the possibility that God, and His Manifestation, may
perform miracles is not denied, but miracles are not considered the
usual method whereby God bestows His grace upon human beings,
because “the miracles desired by people would involve an unnatural
interruption in the natural course of divine revelation . . . and far more
negative consequences would result” (32-3). Each person receives the
grace bestowed by God in proportion to her capacities. In this vein,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá says: “man must seek capacity and develop readiness.
As long as he lacks susceptibility to divine influences, he is incapable
of reflecting the light and assimilating its benefits” (PUP 148). The
Manifestations of
God
guide
human
beings
towards
the
development of spiritual capacities through the usual method of
exposing them to the trials of everyday life, while bestowing upon
them the guidance of their teachings and the assistance of spiritual
powers attracted by the efforts exerted by human beings while
trying to follow the divine guidance. Bahá’u’lláh promises the
development of great capacities to any seeker who make sincere
efforts in His way. For example in the Seven Valleys He writes on
the results of a sincere spiritual quest:
. . . yearning would . . . draw thee from the earthly homeland
to the first, heavenly abode in the Center of Realities, and
lift thee to a plane wherein thou wouldst soar in the air
even as thou walkest upon the earth, and move over the
water as thou runnest on the land . . . (SV 3-4).
And ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes to a spiritual seeker:
I now assure thee, O servant of God, that, if thy mind
become empty and pure from every mention and thought
and thy heart attracted wholly to the Kingdom of God,
forget all else besides God and come in communion with
the Spirit of God, then the Holy Spirit will assist thee with
a power which will enable thee to penetrate all things, and

Mysticism in the age of the maturity

a Dazzling Spark which enlightens all sides, a Brilliant
Flame in the zenith of the heavens, will teach thee that
which thou dost not know of the facts of the universe and
of the divine doctrine. (TAB 3:706-7)
But these capacities are acquired through sacrifice and according to
the usual divine method. Bahá’u’lláh writes:
Know ye that trials and tribulations have, from time
immemorial, been the lot of the chosen Ones of God and
His beloved, and such of His servants as are detached from
all else but Him . . . . Such is God’s method carried into effect
of old, and such will it remain in the future. (GWB 129)
Withdrawing from the world
One the innovations of the Bahá’í Faith is that spiritual
confirmation has been bestowed upon issues that the modern world
can hardly recognize as spiritual concerns, and views as social topics.
The so called twelve principles of the Faith are not mere social
statements, they are spiritual principles, that is, descriptions of the
spiritual reality of human relations. Abiding by these principles is as
important as observing the laws of prayer, fast, meditation and daily
reading of the Holy Texts. If these principles are not complied with,
there is no progress in the mystical path. They are not part of the
shell, but of the kernel, of the Faith. In the light of these remarks,
evidently withdrawing from the world, if not just for very short
periods, as Bahá’u’lláh did in Sulaymaníyyih and Shoghi Effendi in
Switzerland, is not part of the Bahá’í mystical path, whose
fundamental part is the journey of return from God to one’s fellow-
beings. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has reportedly said: “That which is truly
spiritual must light the path to God, and must result in deeds. We
cannot believe the call to be spiritual when there is no result” (ABL
107).
If we add the obligation of giving a spiritual education to our
children since their early infancy, we may suppose that the future
mystics will begin their journey on higher and higher mystical levels.
Therefore it is difficult envisioning which spiritual goals will be
gradually attained and which fruits will be reaped in the Bahá’í
summer and early autumn. As for today, it is enough to understand
that the divine springtime is well advanced, that we are all
encompassed by the divine grace and that the greater spiritual
capacities we will be able to develop through our mystical efforts in
the path of service, the greater will be our practical results in our
foremost task: promoting the oneness of humankind. And perhaps
we may see the realization of the words written by the Báb:

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

God hath, according to that which is revealed in the Book,
taken upon Himself the task of ensuring the ascendancy of
any one of the followers of the Truth, over and above one hun-
dred other souls, and the supremacy of one hundred believers
over one thousand non-believers and the domination of
one thousand of the faithful over all the peoples and
kindreds of the earth; inasmuch as God calleth into being
whatsoever He willeth by virtue of His behest. (SWB 153)


NOTES
1 To paraphrase Shoghi Effendi, mysticism is a state of communion
between a spiritual seeker and the Soul of the Manifestation of God
that conveys the Spirit of God unto her bringing “such ecstasy of
joy that life becomes nothing”. (Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi,
28 July 1950.) For this definition of mysticism, cf. Savi, “The Bahá’í
Faith.”
2 Cf. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, sections 62 and 63.
3 Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 28 December 1936.
4 Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 28 July 1950.
5 Shoghi Effendi quotes these words when he states that the Bahá’í
Revelation “repudiates the claim to be regarded as the final
revelation of God’s will and purpose for mankind” (World
Order115).
6 Letter on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, 14 January 1979.
7 Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 24 June 1949.
8 Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 30 October 1936, postscript in his
handwriting.
9 Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 22 December 1947.
10 Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 5 May1947.
11 Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 9 May 1947.
12 Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 27 February 1943.
13 Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 30 June 1949.
14 Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 20 April 1931.
15 Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 8 may 1948.
16 Letter of the Universal House of Justice, 19 April 1989.
17 Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 30 July 1956.
18 Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 30 November 1932.
19 For a provisional list of these questions cf. Savi “Towards a
definition” 63-4.
20 Words by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in Esslemont 71.

Mysticism in the age of the maturity


21 The original Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh is published in Majmú‘iy-i-Alvá˙-i-
Mubárakih 345 (courtesy of Dr. Khazeh Fananapazir).
BIBLIOGRAPHY
BEAUDE, JOSEPH. La mistica. Trans. from the French Lisa Ginzburg.
Cinisello Balsamo, Milan: Edizioni San Paolo, 1992.
SUDBRACK, JOSEF. Mistica (Mysticism). Trans. from the German
Antonella
Riccio.
Casale
Monferrato,
Alessandria:
Edizione
Piemme, 1992.
Bahá’í Institutions. A Compilation. New Delhi: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
1973.
Bahá’í World Faith: Selected Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1976.
BAUSANI, ALESSANDRO. “Reflections on the Spiritual Dynamics of the
Bahá’í Faith,” The Journal of Bahá’í Studies 1.1 (1988): 5.
ESSLEMONT, JOHN E. Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era. An Introduction to
the Bahá’í Faith. Wilmette, Illinois: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1980.
JAMES, WILLIAM. The Varieties of Religious Experience. A Study in
Human Nature. Glasgow: Collins, 1985.
MARTIN, DOUGLAS. “Humanity’s Coming Encounter with Bahá’u’lláh,”
The American Bahá’í 23.3 (9 April 1992):*.
MOMEN, MOOJAN. “‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on the Quránic Verses
Concerning the Overthrow of the Byzantines.” Bahá’í Studies
Review 12 (2004): 67-90.
NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY OF THE BAHÁ’ÍS OF THE UNITED STATES,
THE. Developing Distinctive Bahá’í Communities. Evanston, Illinois:
Office of Assembly Development, 1998.
“Notes,” in Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas 221, note 130.
SAIEDI, NADER. “Sa˙ífiy-i Sha††íyyih (Book of the River),” The Journal
of Bahá’í Studies 9.3 (September 1999):25-61.
SAVI, JULIO. “The Bahá’í Faith and the Perennial Mystical Quest: A
Western Perspective.” Bahá’í Studies Review (forthcoming).
———. “Towards a definition of Bahá’í theology and mystical
philosophy.” Bahá’í Studies Review 11 (2003) 58—70.
SHOGHI EFFENDI. Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, to the Spiritual
Assembly of Yonkers, 20 April 1931, in Lights of Guidance 406.
———. Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, to an individual believer, 30
November 1932, in “Notes” 215, note 110.
———. Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, to an individual believer, 30
October 1936, postscriptum in the handwriting of Shoghi Effendi,
Compilation 2:236.
———. Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, to an individual believer, 28
December 1936, in Lights of Guidance 163.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven


———. Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, to an individual believer, 27
February 1943, in Living the Life,” Compilation 2:9.
———. Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, to a believer, 5 May1947, in
Bahá’í Institutions 112.
———. Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, to the National Spiritual
Assembly of the United States and Canada, 9 May 1947, in
Compilation 2:18.
———. Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, to an individual believer, 22
December 1947, in Lights of Guidance 515.
———. Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, to the National Spiritual
Assembly of India, Pakistan and Burma, 8 may 1948, in Shoghi
Effendi, Dawn 129.
———. Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, to an individual believer, 24
June 1949, in Compilation 2:243.
———. Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, to the National Spiritual
Assembly of Germany and Austria, 30 June 1949, in Light of Divine
Guidance 148-56.
———. Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, to Manchester Spiritual
Assembly, 28 July 1950, in Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny 406-7.
———. Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, to an individual believer, 30
July 1956, in Bahá’í Institutions 126.
———. Letter to a National Spiritual Assembly, 19 April 1989, in The
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States,
Developing Distinctive Bahá’í Communities 6.6.
———. Letter on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, to an
individual believer, 14 January 1979, in “The Covenant. December
1987. Materials assembled by the research Department of the
Universal House of Justice,” Compilation 1:119.

Mysticism in the age of the maturity

Religion and Exclusivism: a Bahá’í
Perspective 1
Julio Savi
The term ‘exclusivism’ has been adopted in interfaith dialogue to
denote the attitude of those who maintain that only their religion is
true and that the others are false. In the past almost all organized
religions were mostly exclusivist, and even today several people
maintain that exclusivism is an intrinsic feature of religion.
However, a number of factors have created serious doubts about the
rational and moral legitimacy of exclusivism. In a Bahá’í perspective,
exclusivist ideas “today raise walls of separation and conflict in an
age when the earth has literally become one homeland and human
beings must learn to see themselves as its citizens.” (OCF 29) We
offer a preliminary examination of the Bahá’í teachings bearing on
exclusivism, according to our understanding of the open letter
addressed by the Universal House of Justice “To the World’s
Religious Leaders,” and of the commentary of this letter
commissioned by the Universal House of Justice itself published as a
booklet entitled One Common Faith.
Oneness of religion: a pivot of the Bahá’í Faith
Despite those who maintain that exclusivism is an intrinsic feature
of religion, Bahá’í Scriptures convey the opposite. Shoghi Effendi
summarizes the Bahá’í attitude towards other religions as follows:
. . . religious truth is not absolute but relative . . . Divine
Revelation is a continuous and progressive process . . . all the
great religions of the world are divine in origin . . . their basic
principles are in complete harmony . . . their aims and
purposes are one and the same . . . their teachings are but
facets of one truth . . . their functions are complementary . . .
they differ only in the non-essential aspects of their
doctrines and . . . their missions represent successive stages in
the spiritual evolution of human society. (OCF 6)
This statement recapitulates the basic components of the Bahá’í
conception of the oneness of religions. Before examining each of
them we will suggest a provisional definition of religion in the light
of the Bahá’í teachings. Religion is the body of “the teachings of
the Lord God” (SWAB 52) revealed to humankind through a “Perfect
Man,” whom Bahá’í Scriptures call a Manifestation of God, because
as a “clear and polished mirror” he manifests the “Essence of
Divinity” (SAQ 114). Those teachings, mainly expounded in a body

Religion and Exclusivism

of Scripture, are both old and new. They are old because they are
connected with other messages previously sent by God. They are
new, because they signalize the beginning of a new age in the Divine
Revelation. On the one hand, they describe “the essential connection
which proceeds from the realities of things” (SAQ 158) and therefore
they are “the essence and the fundamentals of philosophy” (TB 145)
and “in conformity with science and reason” (SAQ 299). On the
other, they are “a reflection of . . . [God’s] Will” (GWB 338), whose
“fundamental basis is love” (TAB 3:729-30), and therefore they are
“the channel of love unto all peoples” (SWAB 36). At the personal
level, those teachings have the power to guide whoever puts in
practice them to the acquisition and praxis of the divine virtues,
especially that of love with its consequences of unity, fellowship and
peace among human beings. Therefore they lead any sincere believer
to the highest possible level of spirituality2 in that period of human
collective development. At the collective level, they are “the cause
of oneness among men, and the means of unity and love” (SWAB 28).
Therefore they also are “the chief instrument for the establishment
of order in the world and of tranquility amongst its peoples” (TB 63-
4). One Common Faith synthetically states that religion is “the
principal force impelling the development of consciousness” (OCF
23), “discerns and articulates the values unfolding progressively
through Divine revelation . . . [and] defines goals that serve the
evolutionary process” (OCF 33).
This definition underlines three basic elements of religion: a foun-
dational Figure, characterized by a special relation with the Divine;
his teachings, which creatively generate spirituality in human beings,
with its consequences of unity and peace among human beings; and
Scripture, that is, one or more Books containing those teachings. It
is offered only as a possible description, in the light of the Bahá’í
teachings, of “all the great religions of the world” (OCF 6), giving to
the word “great” not certainly worldly connotations of numerical
strength, geographical diffusion or earthly power, but a connotation
of spiritual greatness worthy of a teaching capable of leading human
beings to spirituality. According to the Bahá’í teachings these
religions are “Hinduism, Buddhism, Zoroastrianism, Judaism, Christ-
ianity, Islam, and the religion of the Sabeans,” as well as the Bahá’í
and the Bábí religions.3 The foundational Figures of these religions
may be best described, in the words of One Common Faith, “as the
spiritual Educators of history, as the animating forces in the rise of
the civilizations through which consciousness has flowered” (OCF 34).
I. “Religious truth is not absolute but relative”
This proposition does not imply that the Manifestations of God
are not endowed with “omniscience,” but that they reveal to human-
kind only that part of their knowledge which humankind is able to

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

understand in that stage of its evolution on earth. It can be put into
perspective in the light of two fundamental Bahá’í conceptions. The
first is that conception whereby “[w]hatsoever in the contingent
world can either be expressed or apprehended, can never transgress
the limits which, by its inherent nature, have been imposed upon it”
(SLH 35). The second is Bahá’u’lláh’s principle of “the continuity of
Divine Revelation” (GWB 151) and “the progressiveness of religious
experience” (PDC 108), which will be now explained.
II. “Divine Revelation is a continuous and progressive process”
This concept is known among the Bahá’ís as “progressive
Revelation” (GWB 75). Bahá’í Scriptures mention a pre-eternal
Covenant between God and humankind, established by God Himself
out of His bounty. This Covenant provides that God pledge to look
after the spiritual development of human beings and human beings
pledge to do His will on earth. Therefore God periodically reveals
His will through His Manifestations. They reveal to humankind “an
ever-increasing measure of His truth, of His inscrutable will and
Divine guidance” (WOB 118), according to ever-evolving human
capacities of understanding and accomplishment. Human beings are
required to make a good use of their “understanding,” which has
been given to them so that they may “discern the truth in all things,”
be lead “to that which is right” and “discover the secrets of creation”
(GWB 194). They will thus be enabled to recognize the divine station
of the Manifestations of God, to understand and accept their divine
verities, to abide by their divine guidance and to accomplish the
divine will as they manifest it. Thus they obtain personal and
collective spirituality.
The concept of progressive revelation explains the multiplicity of
religions and of their teachings. It is in contradiction with the claims
of “uniqueness” or “finality” of other religions, but it does not
“dwarf the admitted magnitude of their colossal achievements,” nor
“detract one jot or one tittle from the influence they exert or the
loyalty they inspire.” On the contrary, it contributes to “widen their
basis . . . [and] to reconcile their aims” (WOB 114), in the awareness
that their followers abide by the teachings of historically different
Personages, who are, however, all united to one another in their
common mission as “Educator[s] of mankind” (KI 58). The concept
of progressive revelation also implies that the content of the verities
revealed by each Manifestation depends on the maturity which
humankind has attained through the education it received from all
past Manifestations and because of passing time, and not on any
intrinsic superiority of any one among the Manifestations over the
other. Therefore this concept implies that no religion has “a superior
merit” (WOB 60) than the other ones, because its features only
depend on the receptivity of the age in which it was revealed. One

Religion and Exclusivism

Common Faith warns: “To presume to judge among the Messengers
of God, exalting one above the other, would be to give in to the
delusion that the Eternal and All-Embracing is subject to the
vagaries of human preference” (OCF 20).
III. “All the great religions of the world are divine in origin”
This concept could be wrongly interpreted as a forerunner of
pluralism, as formulated by John H. Hick, Wilfred Cantwell Smith
and others. On the contrary, paraphrasing Hick’s definition of
pluralism, this proposition states that the great religious traditions of
the world represent different human perceptions of and response to
the revelation sent, in different forms in different historical ages, by
the same infinite divine Reality. And thus the two propositions are
virtual opposites: pluralist philosophers, who adopt the humanistic
point of view, stress the different human responses to “the same
infinite divine Reality.” Bahá’í Scriptures, with their spiritual
conception of the nature of reality, also stress the different forms of
the various revelations sent by “the same infinite divine Reality.”
The Universal House of Justice remarks in its message “To the
World’s religious Leaders” that the concept that “the truth
underlying all religions is in its essence one” is accepted in the world
by many people “as an intuitive awareness born from the ever
widening experience of others and from a dawning acceptance of
the oneness of the human family itself,” and augurs that “this
diffuse and still tentative perception” may “consolidate itself and
contribute effectively to the building of a peaceful world” through
“the wholehearted confirmation of those to whom, even at this late
hour, masses of the earth’s population look for guidance” (4). One
Common Faith points out the responsibility of the Bahá’ís of
bringing the “recognition of this reality” to “operate at the heart of
religious discourse” (OCF ii) and thus the importance of reflecting on
this issue. The Bahá’í teachings offer a number of reflections from
which one may deduce that all the “great” religions are divine in
origin. The most important are: their capacity for creating
spirituality in their sincere followers; their capacity for creating
civilization; their capacity for becoming established in the world
notwithstanding the initial opposition that most of them must face;
their capacity, once established, for surviving and enduring far into
the future; and the universality of their basic principles. The first
two reflections are shared by some modern thinkers. For example,
Hick writes that all “the great traditions . . . seem to be more or less
equally productive of the outstanding individuals whom we call
saints” (7). And Arnold J. Toynbee writes that the “higher religions”
are “the chrysalis from which a new civilization eventually emerges”
(13). As to the capacity of becoming established and enduring far
into the future, it has been anticipated by Jesus, who said: “Every

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

plant, which my heavenly Father hath not planted, shall be rooted
up” (Matthew 15:13). As to the universality of their basic principles,
this concept will be now explained.
IV. “Their basic principles are in complete harmony”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains the reasons for this proposition. Given
that the Founders of the “great” religions are Manifestations of God
and that God is “the Truth” (TB 3:704), then “whatever emanates
from Them is identical with the truth, and conformable to reality”
(SAQ 173). Since “reality is one and cannot admit of multiplicity”
(SWAB 298), we may conclude that the “foundations of the Religion
of God . . . are irremovable and eternal” (SAQ 48). ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
mentions a number of “all-universal and all-inclusive” “principles”
(SWAB 69), which He defines as the “foundations of the Religion of
God” (SAQ 48). These principles may be listed under at least five
different categories.4
1. Knowledge
Religions teach a particular kind of “knowledge (‘irfán),”5 which
is an experiential mystical knowledge. This knowledge comprises
“the knowledge (ma‘rifat) of God” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Mufáva∂át 209,
SAQ 300), “the knowledge (ma‘rifat) of the Manifestations of God”
(Mufáva∂át 106, SAQ 222), and the discovery of “inner truths and
mysteries” (SWAB 271). Bahá’u’lláh states that God is unknowable
and that to know God, which is the purpose of human life (GWB 70),
means “to recognize (ma‘rifat) His Manifestation.” (KI 145) As to
the meaning of this “knowledge” or “recognition” of the
Manifestation of God, it also is intended as the experiential
knowledge of one’s potential divine qualities and of “inner truths
and mysteries” (SWAB 271) attained through one’s obedience to the
divine will, as revealed by His Manifestation, because of one’s love
for Him (cf. KI 100-2). ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that the teachings
revealed by the Manifestations of God “are the reflex [reflections]
on this plane of the divine laws, and they become the medium for
transmuting the thought of man into his reality” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá on
Christ and Christianity, 10). And thus we come to another basic
principle of religions.
2. Spiritual awakening
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that “the knowledge of God” (SAQ 300)
and the discovery of “inner truths and mysteries” (SWAB 271) —
attained through one’s obedience to the will of God, as revealed by
His Manifestation, because of one’s love for Him — awaken,
through “the breaths of the Holy Spirit” (SWAB 10), the “spiritual
perfections” (SAQ 194) of human beings, and their “intuitive
knowledge” (SAQ 157). This spiritual awakening brings about their

Religion and Exclusivism

“second birth” (TDP 95), or detachment “from the world of nature”
(SWAB 304), that is, “spirituality” (SAQ 235), or “spiritual progress”
(SAQ 300), which implies the acquisition of “the virtues and
perfections which adorn the reality of man” (SAQ 223).
3. Love and oneness, faith and certitude
These qualities stand out among the virtues acquired by human
beings through their spiritual awakening. As to love, it becomes
manifest as “love of God” (SAQ 47) and “love of all mankind” (TB
138). Its highest expression is “universal love” (SWAB 20), typical of
those who have recognized the oneness of humankind. As to
oneness, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes in the Tablets of the Divine Plan
several “collective centers,” conducive to “association and unity
between the children of men” (TDP 93). He lists as first “patriotism . . .
nationalism . . . identity of interests . . . political alliance . . . the union of
ideals . . . the cultural and intellectual collective center” (93). Although
they may produce “prosperity of the world of humanity,” they are
“temporary and not everlasting” (93). The greatest “collective center”
is that “of the sacred religions” (97), that is, “the body of the divine
teachings, which include all the degrees and embrace all the universal
relations and necessary laws of humanity” (94). This “Divine
Collective Center” (97), which is “eternal,” “overcomes and includes
all the other collective centers” (93), because, through “the celestial
potency of the Word of God” (95), it “organizes the oneness of the
world of humanity, and destroys the foundation of differences” (93).
In one of His talks, dealing with “the subject of unity,” ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá also described two higher “expressions of unity,” mentioned in
the Bahá’í Scriptures: “the oneness of the Manifestations of God”
and “the divine unity or entity” (PUP 192). As to the former
Bahá’u’lláh writes that the Manifestations of God “are all sent down
from the heaven of the Will of God,” and therefore they “are
regarded as one soul and the same person” (KI 152). As to the latter,
He writes that its “true meaning” is not to “be tempted to make any
distinction between any of the Manifestations of His Cause” (GWB
59). The understanding of these “expressions of unity” is an
important component of “unity in religion,” which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
describes as “the corner-stone of the foundation” of “the unity of all
mankind” (SWAB 32). As to faith and certitude, faith is intended as
“the love that flows from man to God” (PT 58.5), “conscious
knowledge, and . . . the practice of good deeds” (TAB 3:549); and
certitude is the capacity “to remain steadfast” (GWB 338) in one’s
faith.
4. Moral development
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that spiritual awakening and the acqui-
sition of “the virtues and perfections which adorn the reality of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

man” (SAQ 223) are both caused by and result in “the expansion of
consciousness” (SWAB 126). This expansion promotes “the ethical dev-
elopment and spiritual progress of mankind” (PUP 97) through the
development of “the moral relations between the hearts” (Christ 11).
5. The progress of humankind
‘Abdu’l-Bahá describes “material” (SWAB 285) and “spiritual
progress” (SAQ 300). The former “promoteth the principles of
material achievement” (SWAB 283) and its “propagator and executive
power” is a “just government” (SWAB 283). It is conducive to the
development of material civilization which is laudable, but
insufficient, because it brings into being at the same time, on the
one hand, an “orderly pattern of kingdoms . . . ease of . . . means of
travel . . . noble discoveries and scientific researches” and, on the
other, “the development of forces of demolition and the invention
of fiery implements” (SWAB 283). Spiritual progress produces the
development of divine civilization, characterized by a balance
between material and spiritual progress. The founders of divine
civilization are the Manifestations of God, “teachers, wondrous and
without peer,” who educate humankind “according to teachings
from God” (SWAB 283).
‘Abdu’l-Bahá defines these basic principles of religions as
“spiritual teachings” (SWAB 285) and says that they are “the essence
of the Law” (SAQ 47) of all the Manifestations of God and “are
renewed in the cycle of every Prophet” (SAQ 48).6 Therefore “the
basis of the religions of God is one” (TDP 32) and any difference
among them in this aspect depends only on the expanding of “the
horizon of man” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Christ 10).
A resemblance has been noted between this concept and
Perennialism.7 But whereas Perennialism refers to an intrinsic feature
of the human spirit, to be cultivated through mystical efforts, the
“one religion, Divine and indivisible” of Bahá’í Scriptures is a divine
knowledge progressively revealed by God to humankind, available to
whosoever is willing to follow the path provided by that same
knowledge. This knowledge leads to spirituality.
V. “Their aims and purposes are one and the same”
All the basic principles of religions may be summarized into a
single purpose: “to safeguard the interests and promote the unity of
the human race, and to foster the spirit of love and fellowship
amongst men” (TB 168). This purpose is “the essence of the Faith of
God and His Religion” (ESW 13). It is so important that ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá writes that should a religion “lead to malice, spite, and hate, it
is of no value at all. For religion is a remedy, and if the remedy bring
on disease, then put it aside” (SWAB 249).

Religion and Exclusivism

VI. “Their teachings are but facets of one truth”
Bahá’u’lláh writes that “the words and utterances” of the
Manifestations of God differ from one another “because of . . . [a]
difference in . . . [the Manifestations’] station and mission,” but they
“are in reality but the expressions of one Truth” (KI 177). The
verities explained by the various Scriptures of the world seem to be
different from one another, because they describe the same Reality,
in conformity with the needs of the people for whom they were
intended. They are the various phenomenal expressions of the one
Noumenon, that is, the one divine Reality. This statement is
reminiscent of Perspectivism, typical of Hick’s pluralistic thought.8
But, as has been said, whereas Hick emphasizes the different human
responses to the same divine Reality, Bahá’í Scriptures also
emphasize the fact that the same divine Reality gradually reveals
itself to humankind in the course of the ages.
VII. “Their functions are complementary”
Bahá’u’lláh writes that
each Manifestation of God hath a distinct individuality, a
definitely prescribed mission, a predestined revelation, and
specially designated limitations. Each one of them is known
by a different name, is characterized by a special attribute,
fulfils a definite mission, and is entrusted with a particular
Revelation (KI 52)
From the concept of the existence of God and the awareness of
good and evil taught by Adam, to the concept of the unity of God
inculcated by Abraham, from the concept of the due observance of
the “fundamental law of God,” which Moses “revealed . . . [as] the
real ethical basis of the civilization and progress of humanity” (PUP
368), to the “special way of life which constitutes the highest type of
action on earth” (SDC 82) emphasized by Christ, to the union of a
people and the founding of a nation upon the divine law taught by
Mu˙ammad, humankind, guided by these “agents of one civilizing
process” (The Universal House of Justice, “Promise” 685) has passed
through various phases in its knowledge of spiritual reality and in its
manifesting this knowledge through its actions and undertakings (cf.
PDC 119-21). Bahá’í Scriptures honor all the Manifestations of God,
because each of them manifests, in different ways, the same God
and bestows his own precious legacy upon all humankind.
VIII. “They differ only in the non-essential aspects of
their doctrines”
‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains that the “inessential” aspects of religious
doctrines are the “material Law” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Christ 10). Whereas
“the spiritual Law” is “the essence of the Law,” “material Law” is its

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

“form” (SAQ 47-8). “Material Law” deals, on the one hand, with
“practical life . . . transactions and business” (‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Christ 10)
and, on the other, with “exterior forms and ceremonies” (PT 44.11).
The outer forms of “fasting, prayer, and worship,” the rules of
“marriage and divorce,” issues regarding “the abolition of slavery,
legal processes, transactions, indemnities for murder, violence, theft
and injuries” (SAQ 48) as well as the ordinances regarding food, all
fall under this category (cf. PUP 365, 404). These teachings are
“modified . . . in each prophetic cycle in accordance with the
necessities of the times” (SAQ 48). However, “[t]he essential thing is
the spiritual law — the outer material law is of small moment,
because material life has natural laws to protect it, but humanity
lacks spiritual education and needs instruction on the divine
qualities” (ADP 64-5).
‘Abdu’l-Bahá may have considered the spiritual teachings of
religions as essential and the material teachings as non-essential on
the ground of the concept, explained by Bahá’u’lláh, that every
Revelation is intended “to effect a transformation in the whole
character of mankind, a transformation that shall manifest itself
both outwardly and inwardly, that shall affect both its inner life and
external conditions” (KI 40-1). In fact, the teachings which ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá defined as essential are teachings whose enforcement changes
the character of humankind. The teachings he defined as non-
essential “refer to material things” (SAQ 48), which exert their
influence on the transformation of human character only through
the spirit that should animate the believers in their compliance with
those laws, that is, their love for God, independently from the form
of those laws in the various religions.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá also includes among the non-essential aspects of
religions those “human interpretations and dogmatic imitations of
ancestral beliefs” (PUP 354) that have gradually encrusted all regions,
in such a subtle and pervasive way that they have come to be
considered as an intrinsic aspect of religions. Since they “differ
widely, religious strife and disagreement have arisen among mankind”
(PUP 141). This issue will be later illustrated.
IX. “Their missions represent successive stages in the
spiritual evolution of human society”
The “great” religions are “different stages in the eternal history
and constant evolution of one religion, Divine and indivisible”
(WOB 114), in the progressive unfoldment of one “Grand
Redemptive Scheme of God” (GPB 139), and their missions represent
successive stages in the spiritual evolution of human society. One
Common Faith explains: “The declared purpose of history’s series of
prophetic revelations . . . has been not only to guide the individual

Religion and Exclusivism

seeker on the path of personal salvation, but to prepare the whole of
the human family for the great eschatological Event lying ahead,
through which the life of the world will itself be entirely
transformed” (OCF 54). The theoretical foundations of this concept
have already been explained. Its consequences on the Bahá’í attitude
towards the “great” religions are that “one cannot call one . . . Faith
superior to another, as they all come from God; they are progressive,
each suited to certain needs of the times.”9 A number of scholars
have given to this concept an inclusivistic meaning, because in their
opinion it presents the Bahá’í Faith as the synthesis of all previous
religions.10 As a matter of fact ‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote that “[t]he
teachings of Bahá’u’lláh are such that all the communities of the
world, whether religious, political or ethical, ancient or modern, find
in them the expression of their highest wish” (SWAB 304). This
statement certainly implies that the Bahá’í Faith is inclusive in the
sense of being “enclosing, encompassing” (Webster). But the Bahá’í
conception of the oneness of religion is not inclusivistic, because it
does not deny, but on the contrary upholds, “the ultimate validity”
(Rowe 178) of all the “great” religions, as salvific agents, which have
the power “to bring about happiness in the after life and civilization
and the refinement of character in this” (SDC 46). In this vein One
Common Faith states that the “heroes and saints” of any religion
“are the heroes and saints of all” the other religions, the “successes”
of any religion are “the successes of all” (OCF 23) the others.
The “God-given authority and correlative
character” of Scriptures
These propositions have two corollaries. The first is that the Scrip-
tures of all religions, which are the repositories of the teachings of
each religion, have a “God-given authority” (PDC 111) and are mutually
correlated. The Bahá’í teachings do not confirm an “exact word-for-
word authenticity” of all Scriptures, which recent studies seem to
ascribe to very few, if any, of them. They only uphold the validity of
their “substance or spiritual message” (Sours 96). “The scriptures have
not changed; the moral principles they contain have lost none of
their validity,” remarks One Common Faith (23). As to the correlations
among Scriptures, these correlations may depend on the fact that, as
has been said, all the Manifestations of God take part in the progressive
unfoldment of one “Grand Redemptive Scheme of God” (GPB 139).
All “great” religions are “continuous in their purpose
and indispensable in their value to mankind”
The second corollary is that all “great” religions are “continuous
in their purpose, indispensable in their value to mankind” (WOB 58).
Since each “great” religion is united to all the others in a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

“continuous purpose,” that is, “to safeguard the interests and
promote the unity of the human race, and to foster the spirit of love
and fellowship amongst men” (TB 168), today each “great” religion
may become more effective in achieving that purpose, if it is willing
to cooperate with all its sister religions in its attainment. And this
purpose is clearly pointed out in One Common Faith, when it states
that “the texts speak with one voice: religion’s goal is humanity’s
attainment” (OCF 53) of a golden age, “an age utterly beyond
anything humanity will have experienced, the mind conceived or
language as yet encompassed” (54).
How is exclusivism born?
‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes: “Every universal cause is divine and every
particular one is temporal. The principles of the . . . Manifestations of
God were, therefore, all-universal and all-inclusive . . . The . . .
Manifestations of God . . . engaged in the service of universal
education” (SWAB 68-9). The idea that Scriptures may include
statements requesting the believers to assume exclusivist attitudes is,
in a Bahá’í perspective, tantamount to saying that Scriptures are not
universal, which is at variance with the ultimate purpose — educating
all humankind to love, unity and peace — wherefore the
Manifestations of God come to the world. And yet some sentences
of each of those Scriptures are used to defend exclusivist attitudes.
In the light of Bahá’í teachings it seems that this happened because
of misinterpretations of those words. The Bahá’í International
Community wrote in this regard: “Indeed, human beings have a
tendency to view their own beliefs as right, and all others as wrong.
They have, we suggest, erroneously interpreted the tenets of their
own faiths as advocating . . . exclusivity” (Eliminating Religious
Intolerance). Our misinterpretations of Scriptures drive us to think
that God has not observed the fundamental clause of His Own
Covenant with all religions — loving everybody without excluding
anyone — revealing Himself only to a people, to an age, at the
exclusion of anyone else, or wholly abandoning a people after having
revealed Himself to them through one of His Manifestations.
Bahá’u’lláh assures us that “the generality of mankind hath been
endued with the capacity to hearken unto God’s most exalted Word”
(TB 89) and warns that in some people “this faculty hath remained
undeveloped and hath, indeed, degenerated” (TB 53). He explains
moreover that whosoever wants to discover the meanings of Scripture
needs “purity of heart, chastity of soul, and freedom of spirit” (KI
211), He also explains that his heart should be “assured,” his soul
should have “found favour with God,” his mind should be “detached
from all else but Him” (KI 255). These words describe at least two
conditions. The first is the capacity of transcending the promptings

Religion and Exclusivism

of the “ego,” intended as the consciousness of his body and its
instincts which each human being acquires and preserves during his
earthly life, and which, if it is not properly curbed, is responsible for
self-centered behaviors, which are unworthy of a human being.
Whosoever tries to interpret Scriptures, without having achieved a
relative inner freedom from his “ego,” does not discover their real,
implicit meanings, but rather he simply finds a reflection of his own
desires in them, that is, those meanings which he may use for his own
purposes, as for example demeaning the identity of others and
bolstering his own. On the contrary, while interpreting Scriptures one
should remember that “religion must be the cause of fellowship and
love” (SWAB 299) and one should also keep in mind that “self-love . . . is
a strange trait and the means of the destruction of many important
souls in the world” (TAB 1:136). The second condition is avoiding to
regard “the words and deeds of mortal men as a standard for the true
understanding and recognition of God and His Prophets” (KI 4) and
seeking “enlightenment from them who are the recognized
Expounders”
of
Scripture
(KI
256),
that
is,
“the
divine
Manifestations,” Who are “the only ones who can comprehend its
manifold wisdom” (GWB 75). Bahá’í Scriptures mention at least five
major mistakes in the interpretation of Scriptures which may lead to
exclusivist readings.
One mistake is pointed out by Bahá’u’lláh when He says,
referring to certain allegorical verses of Scripture, that religious
leaders “have literally interpreted the Word of God,” depriving
“themselves and all their people of the bountiful showers of the
grace and mercies of God” (KI 82).11 The importance of avoiding
literal interpretations of Scriptures, whenever “the reality of spirit —
its condition, its station . . . spiritual qualities . . . [or] spiritual states”
(SAQ 84) are described, becomes even more evident if one considers
that “modern scholarship has disproved many old beliefs about the
inerrancy of scriptural documents” (Sours 95).
A second mistake is that some passages of Scripture have been
over-emphasized, while other pertinent passages have been ignored.
Bahá’u’lláh condemns those people who “with one hand cling to
those verses of the Qur’án [Koran] and those traditions . . . which
they have found to accord with their inclinations and interests, and
with the other reject those which are contrary to their selfish
desires” (KI 168).12 In this sense the Bahá’ís are recommended to
avoid the tendency “to cling tenaciously to one Text or one
understanding of the Texts and to overlook the significance of
other passages of the Writings”13 and to always keep in mind the
overall meaning of Scriptures, because the teachings which
Scriptures convey are “a great, balanced whole,”14 similar to “a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

sphere; there are points poles apart, and in between the thoughts and
doctrines that unite them.”15
A third mistake consists in interpreting a statement of Scriptures
while ignoring their overall meaning in the light of the specific
mission of the Manifestation of God Who revealed them. In this
sense Shoghi Effendi says: “The severe laws and injunctions revealed
by the Báb can be properly appreciated and understood only when
interpreted in the light of His own statements regarding the nature,
purpose and character of His own Dispensation.”16 Likewise, One
Common Faith explains such teachings of the ancient religion as
“the inferior social status most sacred texts assign to women” (OCF
34) and exclusivist teachings pertaining “relations between societies,”
which seem unacceptable today, on the ground of the fact that “[a]t
the stages of social development at which all of the major faiths
came into existence, scriptural guidance sought primarily to civilize,
to the extent possible, relationships resulting from intractable
historical circumstances” (35).
A fourth mistake comes from renouncing rationality, in the name
of a blind faith in tradition, which implies the perpetuation of past
mistakes. Bahá’u’lláh states that God has “conferred upon man . . . the
gift of understanding,” so that he may be able “to discern the truth
in all things” (GWB 194). And thus He encourages people to read
Scriptures “in the spirit of search, not in blind imitation” (SV 24). As
‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes: “blind imitation of the past will stunt the
mind” (SWAB 248).
A fifth mistake comes when, paraphrasing One Common Faith,
“followers of one of the world’s faiths prove unable to distinguish
between its eternal and transitory features,” and ascribe an absolute
value to scriptural passages prescribing “rules of behaviour that have
long since accomplished their purpose” (37).
Scriptures may also be misinterpreted because of the complexity
of their language. Bahá’u’lláh quotes a Muslim tradition to explain
that the words of Scriptures have many meanings: “We speak one
word, and by it we intend one and seventy meanings” (KI 255).17 He
writes moreover that all the Manifestations of God “speak a twofold
language. One . . . the outward language, is devoid of allusions, is
unconcealed and unveiled . . . the other language is veiled and
concealed” (KI 254-5). Elsewhere He explains that He Himself has
adopted “the language of the law-giver” and “that of the truth-
seeker and the mystic” (ESW 14). He also writes that He has revealed
His “verses in nine different modes” (SLH 27). Since Scriptures are
written in so many different modes, it is important to read each of
their statements in its own context and in the light of the special

Religion and Exclusivism

“mode” of its revelation, as well as keeping the fundamental verities
of Scriptures as a whole in mind.18
Finally, five kinds of language have been recently described in
Christian Scriptures: “survival language . . . apocalyptic language . . .
confessional language . . . action language . . . hyperbolic language” (Fazel
248-58, 265-7). Survival language should strengthen the early believers’
identity, surrounded as they are, so much so at the beginning of a
Dispensation, by indifference and even hostility. Apocalyptic
language, “foreboding imminent disaster or final doom” (Webster)
should help the believers face the catastrophic events that often mark
the emergence of newborn religions and remain steadfast in their
faith. Confessional language has been described as “the language . . . of
enthusiastic believers . . . of lovers” (Knitter 185). Action language
should inspire the believers to make the necessary sacrifices so that
they may put in practice the will of God. Hyperbolic language, typical
of the mystical literature of all ages and regions, should describe
abstruse metaphysical concepts and spiritual experiences that are quite
different from any other kind of experience. A sixth language could
be added, that is, the prophetic or eschatological language, a
particular form of apocalyptic language which sometimes sets the
obscurity of present days against the bliss of future achievements.
Scriptures admonish that this language is difficult and that it will be
understood only after the predicted events will have been realized.
These six kinds of language are often expressed in powerful
utterances, which, if they are interpreted literally, or taken out of
their context, and invested with a doctrinal meaning, can give rise to
exclusivist interpretations.
These considerations could raise a number of objections.
Someone could object that they may imply that only the learned
ones are able to understand Scripture. Others could object that the
analytical reading which these considerations seem to encourage may
invalidate the inspiring purpose of Scriptures. It is like coldly
analyzing a poem without yielding to its beauty. Others could
observe that an excess of rational, allegorical interpretation could
nullify the practical aspects of religions. Bahá’í Scriptures appear to
explain that all these risks can be avoided when the above mentioned
spiritual conditions for whomsoever wants to discover the meanings
of Scripture are realized and an attitude of wisdom and moderation
is adopted.
The mistakes made by theologians and religious leaders in their
interpretations
of
Scripture
are
therefore
understandable.
Nonetheless they have had grievous consequences, because they have
grown into dogmas, that is, enunciations of man-made doctrines,
whose acceptance is required to be numbered among the followers
of a religion.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Bahá’í Scriptures deny that man-made dogmas may be included
among the basic principles of religions for at least four reasons.
First, dogmas are the fruit of human minds that, as excellent as they
may have been, cannot be infallible, since essential infallibility is an
exclusive attribute of the Manifestations of God. Second, since
human beings cannot have a complete understanding of reality, each
dogma, as a man-made enunciation of spiritual truth, is in itself
limited and thus it remains a hypothesis. Third, dogmas sometimes
“are contrary to science” (PT 44.15). But “the religion of God is the
promoter of truth, the founder of science (‘ilm) and knowledge
(ma‘rifat)” and “knowledge (‘ilm) . . . is . . . identical with guidance”
(Mufáva∂át 99, SAQ 137).19 Therefore there cannot be contradiction
between the two. And thus an interpretation of a Scriptural sentence
might have a widely accepted meaning in a certain time, but later it
becomes obvious that what was “widely accepted” is in conflict with
scientific findings, thus throwing into question the veracity of the
widely accepted scriptural interpretation. Last but not least, a
number of dogmas “are at variance with the foundations established
by the Prophets of God” (PUP 354) and thus they are conducive to
strife and disagreement, whereas the purpose of religion is to create
love and harmony among human beings.
The growth of the body of dogmas throughout the centuries has
introduced into “tradition” a number of concepts at variance with
the overall intentions of the divine message of Scripture, and yet
considered as absolute verities by religious leaders and their
followers, giving “rise to discord, hatred and disunion” (SAQ 298). In
the light of Bahá’í Scriptures these elements that have been added to
the original teachings of the Manifestations of God are considered
as “non-essential and spurious” (PDC 109). Therefore the Bahá’ís
“distinguish, for instance, between Christianity, which is the divine
message given by Jesus of Nazareth, and the development of
Christendom, which is the history of what men did with that
message in subsequent centuries, a distinction which has become
blurred if not entirely obscured” (Comments 389) in the eyes of
modern scholars of religion. In this regard ‘Abdu’l-Bahá said: “There
was no disagreement or variance in the reality of . . . the teaching and
mission [of religions]. Discord has arisen among their followers,
who have lost sight of reality and hold fast to imitations” (PUP 234).
One Common Faith remarks in this regard: “Over time, theology
succeeded in constructing in the heart of each one of the great
faiths an authority parallel with, and even inimical in spirit to, the
revealed teachings on which the tradition was based” (28).

Religion and Exclusivism

Towards the oneness of religions
The following words uttered by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in 1912 both sum-
marize what has been said in this paper and suggest a way towards
the abandonment of dangerous claims to exclusivity or finality:
The strife between religions . . . arises from misunder-
standing. If we investigate the religions to discover the
principles underlying their foundations, we will find they
agree; for the fundamental reality of them is one and not
multiple. By this means the religionists of the world will
reach their point of unity and reconciliation. They will
ascertain the truth that the purpose of religion is the acqui-
sition of praiseworthy virtues, the betterment of morals,
the spiritual development of mankind, the real life and
divine bestowals . . . We must look at the reality of the
Prophets and Their teachings in order that we may agree.
(PUP 152, 153)

NOTES
1 I would like to thank Prof. Rhett Diessner, Mrs. Lucia Ricco and Mr.
Peter Terry, for their precious suggestions. The ideas expressed in
this paper are the result of a personal study and are not intended as
either a final word or an official Bahá’í position on the issue.
2 Spirituality may be defined, in the light of the Bahá’í teachings, as the
gradual acquisition of the required capacities to fulfill the twofold
purpose of one’s life, that is, inwardly, knowing and worshipping
God (cf. Bahá’u’lláh, Prayers and Meditations 314, no. CLXXXI),
intended as following — out of one’s love of God — the precepts of
one’s religion, whose divine origin one has recognized, and,
outwardly, playing one’s part “to carry forward an ever-advancing
civilization” (Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 215). This concept may be
offered as a Bahá’í equivalent of the Christian concept of salvation.
3 Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 28 July 1936.
4 Since religious teachings are so complex and various, our list is
undoubtedly incomplete (cf. letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 10
July 1939). I am grateful to Mr. Peter Terry for his suggestion of
this arrangement of religious teachings into categories.
5 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Mufáva∂át 36, English translation: Some Answered
Questions 47.Whenever this kind of knowledge is intended, Bahá’í
Scriptures use the Arabic and Persian words ‘irfán and ma‘rifat,
denoting the experiential knowledge typical of mystical experience.
6 Sometimes in the Bahá’í Scriptures the Manifestations of God are also
called Prophets of God.
7 Perennialism is a doctrine whereby “a fundamental core of truth (is)
to be found at the heart of all religions, no matter how diverse their
external appearance and practice may be” (Oxford Dictionary of

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven


World Religions 750), upheld by a number of philosophers as the
French
René
Guénon
(1886-1951),
the
Indian
Sarvepalli
Radhakrishnan (1888-1975) and the German Swiss born Frithjof
Schuon (1907-1998), as well as by the English novelist and critic
Aldous Huxley (1894-1963).
8 Perspectivism is “(t)he theory that knowledge of a subject is
inevitably partial and limited by the individual perspective from
which it is viewed . . .” (Oxford English Dictionary).
9 Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 19 November 1945.
10 Cf. for example Fisher and Luyster 345 and Smith 385.
11 Cf. “the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life” (2 Corinthians 3:6).
12 Cf. “Believe ye then part of the Book, and deny part?” (Koran 2:79,
Rodwell).
13 Letter on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, 24 May 1992.
14 Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 19 March 1945.
15 Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 5 July 1947.
16 Letter on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, 17 February 1946.
17 This tradition is ascribed to Imám Ja‘far aß-Íádiq (the sixth Imám,
c609-c765) in Biháru’l-Anvár (Seas of Lights), the collection of Shí’ih
traditions compiled by Mu˙ammad Baqíru’l-Majlisí at the end of
the sixteenth century CE.
18 Cf. “Notes” 221, note 130. For a preliminary study of these nine
modes cf. Taherzadeh 42.
19 The Arabic and Persian word ‘ilm does not mean only “knowledge,”
but also “science.”
BIBLIOGRAPHY
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. “‘Abdu’l-Bahá on Christ and Christianity. The text of an
interview with Pasteur Monnier on the relationship between the
Bahá’í Faith and Christianity, Paris, February 17th 1913,” The Bahá’í
Studies Review 3.1 (1993):7-17.
———. An Núru’l-Abhá fi Mufáva∂át-i-‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Table Talks. Comp.
Laura Clifford Barney. 2nd ed. Cairo, 1920.
Bahá’í International Community, The. Geneva, 17 February 1988,
Eliminating Religious Intolerance. Statement to the forty-fourth
session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights.
Agenda item 23: Implementation of the Declaration on the
Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination
Based on Religion or Belief. Document no. 88-0217.
Bahá’í News. Wilmette, Illinois: National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahá’ís of the United States.
“Comments by the Research Department at the World Centre, attached
to the Universal House of Justice, 3 January 1979, to the

Religion and Exclusivism


Participants in the Bahá’í Studies Seminar held in Cambridge on 30
September and 1 October 1978.” In MUHJ63 388-92.
Fazel, Seena. “Understanding Exclusivist Texts.” In Momen (ed.).
Scripture and Revelation 239-82.
Fisher, Mary Pat and Robert Luyster, Living Religions. Englewood
Cliffs, New Jersey: Prentice Hall, 1991.
Hick, John H. “Interfaith and Future.” Bahá’í Studies Review 4.1 (1994): 1-8.
Knitter, Paul. No Other Name? A Survey of Christian Attitudes towards
World Religions. London: Student Christian Movement, 1985.
Momen, Moojan (ed.). Scripture and Revelation. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1997.
“Notes.” In Bahá’u’lláh. Kitáb-i-Aqdas 165-251.
Oxford Dictionary of World Religions. Ed. John Bowker. Oxford, 1997.
Oxford English Dictionary. Eds. John A. Simpson and Edmund S. C.
Weiner. 2nd ed. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1989.
Rowe, William L. Philosophy of Religion: An Introduction. 2nd ed.
Belmont, California: Wadsworth, 1993.
Shoghi Effendi. Letter on behalf of, 28 July 1936. In Bahá’í News 105
(February 1937):2.
———. Letter on behalf of, 10 July 1939. In Lights of Guidance 506, ¶
1702.
———. Letter on behalf of, 19 November 1945. In Bahá’í News 210
(August 1948):3.
———. Letter on behalf of, 17 February 1946. In Shoghi Effendi, DND 77.
———. Letter on behalf of, 19 March 1946.
———. Letter on behalf of, 5 July 1947. In Compilation 1:229, ¶ 506.
Smith, Huston. The World’s Religions: A Completely Revised and
Updated Edition of the Religions of Man. San Francisco:
HarperCollins, 1991.
Sours, Michael. Without Syllable or Sound: The World’s Sacred
Scriptures in the Bahá’í Faith. Los Angeles: Kalimát Press, 2000.
Taherzadeh, Adib. The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh 1. Oxford: George
Ronald, 1974.
Toynbee, Arnold J. Civilization on Trial. New York: OUP, 1948) 13.
Universal House of Justice. “The Promise of World Peace.”
———. “To the World’s Religious Leaders. April 2002.” Haifa: Bahá’í
World Centre, 2002.
———. Letter on behalf of, 24 May 1992.
Webster’s
New
International
Dictionary.
3rd
ed.
Springfield,
Massachusetts: Merriam-Webster Inc., 1986.

Seeds of Revelation and the Mystic
Bond between The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh
An Exposition on Excerpts from the Persian
Bayán
James B. Thomas
Introduction
In this paper a series of spiritual concepts are explored through
the eyes of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh that show a remarkable
continuity and harmony of meaning yet are expressed in many
different ways. The Persian Bayán offers a rich array of verses that
captured the hearts of the early Bábís. It is through these writings
that one may peer into the remarkable mind of the young
charismatic Báb. His eloquence in espousing the truths of the
Creator enabled His followers to achieve unimaginable deeds of
heroism for the Cause of God in the most difficult of
circumstances. Then the majestic figure of Bahá’u‘lláh emerged to
carry forth an even greater world embracing revelation that will in
the fullness of time sweep away the heartbreak, the pain and endless
iniquities of bygone generations. Their relationship begins with the
most basic, the most essential and the most enduring qualities that
are attainable in human life.
Inner Temple
For religion to have any meaning it must touch the emotions of
the human heart, otherwise it will simply become an intellectual
exercise devoid of conviction. This lack of emotional content is in
fact one of the barriers to faith. How to open the door of the soul is
mystifying. Some forms of art, especially music can do this but we
have to know where to take it from there. Certain individuals accept
unconditionally the precepts of revelation once the heart is moved
by the eloquence of a Great Prophet while others spend countless
years investigating “The Word” without true comprehension. In
other words, logic alone cannot evoke emotional response while
passion without rationale cannot achieve lasting certitude. So what is
the nature of our soul, of our inner life, of the heart of hearts of
our deepest sense of personal reality? The resplendent Herald of a
new cycle in human history, the Báb is the first to address the
subject.

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

In the Persian Bayán, the holy book of the Bábí Dispensation, the
Báb refers to the physical frame as being the throne of the inner
temple. He explains that, though the body may experience pain, it is
the inner temple of the body, not the body itself that takes delight
in joy or is saddened by pain. For this reason the body should be
treated with utmost honor and respect for, by doing so is to honor
the inner reality. (SWB 95)
Bahá’u’lláh expands the analogy to encompass the world in terms
of a human temple. He compares the need that a human being has
for clothing to the need that the body of mankind has for the
mantle of justice and wisdom. He identified His robe to be the
Revelation given to us by God and that when its purpose is fulfilled
it shall be renewed when new circumstances require a fresh measure
of the light of God. (GWB 81)
Purity
The above descriptions of the inner temple of the individual and
the human temple of the body of mankind mandate that certain
conditions are required in order for them to flourish in a state of joy
where justice prevails and where we conduct ourselves with wisdom.
The Báb points out the first and foremost condition that we must
achieve in everyday life, purity. “GOD loveth those who are pure.
Naught in the Bayán and in the sight of God is more loved than
purity and immaculate cleanliness . . .” (SWB 80) He goes on to state
that God does not want to see any soul in the Bayán deprived of joy
and radiance. He does desire that all be inwardly and outwardly
adorned with purity under all conditions and that no repugnance be
caused to them.
Bahá’u’lláh speaks at length on virtues and attributes that pertain
to God and He ranks some among the highest of qualities such as
“trustworthiness, truthfulness, purity of heart while communing
with God, forbearance, resignation to whatever the Almighty hath
decreed, . . . ” (GWB 290) He further expands on the Báb’s comments
about purity and admonishes the friends to strive to find favor in
the sight of God and adds:
O CHILDREN OF ADAM! Holy words and pure and
goodly deeds ascend unto the heaven of celestial glory.
Strive that your deeds may be cleansed from the dust of
self and hypocrisy and find favor at the court of glory; for
ere long the assayers of mankind shall, in the holy presence
of the Adored One, accept naught but absolute virtue and
deeds of stainless purity . . . (HW 69)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Veils
But there are man-made barriers so severe that they may offer
difficult but subtle tests that inhibit one’s spiritual progress. These
are veils that are opposite to purity. They are derived from corrupted
religious beliefs that ironically result in heinous actions. From the
Báb we have:
HOW veiled are ye, O My creatures, . . . who, without any
right, have consigned Him unto a mountain [Máh-Kú],
not one of whose inhabitants is worthy of mention . . . With
Him, which is with Me, there is no one except him who is
one of the Letters of the Living of My Book. (SWB 87)
The Báb explains that, for Him “there is not at night even a lighted
lamp!” However, in places of worship there are unnumbered lamps
shining for Him (the Promised One) that is in reality the Báb.
Moreover, all receive His benefits but are so veiled as “to refuse
Him even a lamp.” And Bahá’u’lláh issues a warning about veils.
It behoveth us, therefore, to make the utmost endeavor,
that, by God's invisible assistance, these dark veils, these
clouds of Heaven-sent trials, may not hinder us from
beholding the beauty of His shining Countenance, and that
we may recognize Him only by His own Self. (GWB 27)
In another tablet He says “Verily, I say: The Cause of God hath
never had, nor hath it now, any peer or equal. Rend asunder the veils
of idle fancies.” (ESW 114)
Love
At the innermost heart of faith, as extolled by the Báb in the
Bayán, is love of and for God. He reveals that “The path to
guidance is one of love and compassion, not of force and coercion.”
(SWB 77) He states “He hath cherished and will ever cherish the
desire that all men may attain His gardens of Paradise with utmost
love, that no one should sadden another, not even for a moment . . . ”
(SWB 86)
Bahá’u’lláh also places love at the core of faith. He mentions this
word over four thousand times throughout His numerous writings.
Blessed the man who hath sought enlightenment from the
Day-Star of My Word. Blessed he who hath attired his
head with the diadem of My love. (TB 17)
O SON OF MAN! Veiled in My immemorial being and in
the ancient eternity of My essence, I knew My love for
thee; therefore I created thee, have engraved on thee Mine
image and revealed to thee My beauty. (HW 3-7)

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

Speaking with the voice of God, He says that we should “Seclude
ourselves in the stronghold of His love.” (ESW 49) And He exclaims
“Deal ye one with another with the utmost love and harmony, with
friendliness and fellowship.” (ESW 14)
Prayer
Of all the activities of which man may participate, the most
important in the final analysis must be the act of prayer; for with it
“man holdeth communion with God . . . ” (KA Notes 166) As such, the
intonement of prayer brings one closer to God than any other means
within the material world. The Báb emphasized the importance of
sincerity in the act of prayer. He said that motive should not be the
expectation of God’s reward, though true worship opens the door to
the paradise of God’s pleasure. He further stated:
The most acceptable prayer is the one offered with the
utmost spirituality and radiance; its prolongation hath not
been and is not beloved by God. The more detached and
the purer the prayer, the more acceptable is it in the
presence of God. (SWB 79)
In the same vein, Bahá’u’lláh gives the great hope that when the
heart accepts the Divine Messenger of God, His light shines through
the soul and body. He becomes the hearing ear of the one drawn to
Him in prayer. And He infers that when we pray in a state of
communion we may receive assistance from Holy Souls. He warns,
on the other hand, that we are not to confuse our station with the
essence of God, that His utterances are not to be construed as
anthropomorphism, that is, the ascribing of human characteristics to
inanimate objects, animals, or natural phenomena. (Websters) Also
we should not “see in them the descent of the worlds of God into
the grades of the creatures.” (SV 22-3)
Resurrection
There may not be another subject so controversial as resurrection.
It has been expounded in so many ways that most are utterly
confused about its true meaning. The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh have
expressed collectively what has to be the clearest vision of what
resurrection means. The Báb compares the day of resurrection to any
regular day when the sun rises at dawn and falls at sunset. But when
a new Revelation dawns the people remain oblivious to the rising in
the land where it occurs. The appearance of Mu˙ammad went
unnoticed at first and He was silent because He knew that the
unbelievers could not bear such news. And when He did announce
the new Day, the people considered Him to be like them and did not
even think of Him as a believer. The Báb further compares His own

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Dispensation to that of Mu˙ammad in the way that He was rejected
by the people and incarcerated not knowing that their own belief
existed because of Him, i.e. the Qá’im. (SWB 79) He said “that all
should dwell within His cradle of protection and security until the
Day of Resurrection which marketh the dayspring of the Revelation
of Him Whom God will make manifest. (SWB 79)
Thus, resurrection in this context refers to the dawn of a new
Revelation with the emergence of a Manifestation of God in human
form. In other words a new cycle in the spiritual life of man is born
on the wings of spiritual insight from a great Prophet in order to
help mankind deal with the exigencies of a new age. Expanding on
this, Bahá’u’lláh speaks of Mu˙ammad as an example of fulfillment
of prophecy with respect to our spiritual identity and its relationship
to the human body:
Nay, by “trumpet” is meant the trumpet-call of
Mu˙ammad's Revelation, which was sounded in the heart
of the universe, and by “resurrection” is meant His own rise
to proclaim the Cause of God. He bade the erring and
wayward arise and speed out of the sepulchres of their
bodies, arrayed them with the beauteous robe of faith, and
quickened them with the breath of a new and wondrous
life. (KI 116-7)
Bahá’u’lláh writes also that anyone who attains the presence of a
Divine Messenger attains the “Presence of God” and enters the state
of immortal life but that this is only possible in the Day of
Resurrection, which is the rise of God in “His all-embracing
Revelation.” He expounds upon the importance of this phenomenon
and then asks
can a more precious, a mightier, and more glorious day
than this be conceived, so that man should willingly forego
its grace, and deprive himself of its bounties, which like
unto vernal showers are raining from the heaven of mercy
upon all mankind? (KI 142-4)
The Báb, in His statement describes the Day of Resurrection in
this age to be marked by “the Revelation of He Whom God will
make manifest” the One we now know to be Bahá’u’lláh. Through
this new Revelation we discover the answers to deeper and deeper
mysteries that are related to the writings of the Báb. Bahá’u’lláh
expounds upon the inner mysteries of rebirth, of return and of
resurrection for example and then explains how those believers in
previous Dispensations who embrace the Faith of God and who
reached the sublime state of certitude can be regarded as the
“return” of those in former Dispensations who had reached the same
point of faith.

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

For whatsoever the people of a former Dispensation have
manifested, the same hath been shown by the people of
this latter generation. Consider the rose: whether it
blossometh in the East or in the West, it is none the less a
rose. For what mattereth in this respect is not the outward
shape and form of the rose, but rather the smell and
fragrance which it doth impart. (KI 158-9)
He further states
It hath been demonstrated and definitely established,
through clear evidences, that by “Resurrection” is meant
the rise of the Manifestation of God to proclaim His
Cause, and by “attainment unto the divine Presence” is
meant attainment unto the presence of His Beauty in the
person of His Manifestation . . .
Bahá’u’lláh declares that “they have foolishly clung to the term
‘seal,’ and remained utterly deprived of the recognition of Him Who
is the Revealer of both the Seal and the Beginning, in the day of His
presence.” (KI 170) Finally His comment about the word “seal” is
born out in the Old and New Testament of the Holy Bible.
But thou, O Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book,
even to the time of the end: many shall run to and fro, and
knowledge shall be increased . . . (Daniel 12:4)
And he said, Go thy way, Daniel: for the words are closed
up and sealed till the time of the end. (Daniel 12:9)
Six centuries later St. John wrote of the sealed book at the time of
the end:
And I wept much, because no man was found worthy to
open and to read the book, neither to look thereon . . .
(Revelation 5:4)
And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not: behold,
the Lion of the tribe of Juda, the Root of David, hath
prevailed to open the book, and to loose the seven seals
thereof. (Revelation 5:5)
Bahá’u’lláh’s ancestry does in fact include Jesse, the forerunner
of David. He refers to “the time of the end” as the closing of the
Adamic cycle with the declaration of the Báb in confluence with His
own rising that would introduce a whole new cycle for the maturity
of humankind. (SAQ 62)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Paradise
There are perhaps as many perceptions of paradise as there are
people in the world. And each one no doubt mixes worldly elements
within their ideal of what constitutes an idyllic state of being. Even
the most devout followers of religion are not free of human
limitations with regard to the paradigms of paradise. However we
may be freed from these limitations when we perceive through the
eyes of a Messenger of God by viewing the intertwining descriptive
elements of this elusive goal as presented by the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh.
There is no paradise, in the estimation of the believers in
the Divine Unity, more exalted than to obey God's
commandments, and there is no fire in the eyes of those
who have known God and His signs, fiercer than to
transgress His laws and to oppress another soul, even to the
extent of a mustard seed . . . (SWB 79)
The sanctity of divine obedience and the repercussion of
disobedience is enhanced by Bahá’u’lláh with an uplifting
characterization of paradise:
O DWELLERS OF MY PARADISE! With the hands of
loving-kindness I have planted in the holy garden of
paradise the young tree of your love and friendship, and
have watered it with the goodly showers of My tender
grace; now that the hour of its fruiting is come, strive that
it may be protected, and be not consumed with the flame
of desire and passion. (HW 33-4)
The Báb, speaking as a mouthpiece of God, carries the meaning
of paradise even further away from the material world and adds “I
affirm that no Paradise is more sublime for My creatures than to
stand before My face and to believe in My holy Words . . . ” And He
further states that “no fire hath been or will be fiercer for them than
to be veiled from the Manifestation of My exalted Self and to
disbelieve in My Words.” (SWB 87) Bahá’u’lláh quotes the Báb as He
addresses the Bábís and transcends the former Dispensation to His
Own as an element of paradise. “Wherefore, hath My Forerunner, as
a sign of submissiveness and humility, said: ‘The whole of the Bayán
is only a leaf amongst the leaves of His Paradise.’” (ESW 158-9) The
beauty of the realm of God within the context of the Báb’s Holy
Book is thus retained within a much broader perception of paradise
in the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. The Báb, on the other hand,
clarifies the individual uniqueness of paradise with respect to the
perfection of the individual. He states “No created thing shall ever

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

attain its paradise unless it appeareth in its highest prescribed degree
of perfection.” (SWB 88)
So paradise is not necessarily infinite but relative depending upon
the kingdom or level of existence. But it is the reality of the spiritual
realm and it’s paradise that reaches the highest level of perfection as
attested by Bahá’u’lláh:
O OFFSPRING OF DUST! Be not content with the ease of
a passing day, and deprive not thyself of everlasting rest.
Barter not the garden of eternal delight for the dust-heap
of a mortal world. Up from thy prison ascend unto the
glorious meads above, and from thy mortal cage wing thy
flight unto the paradise of the Placeless. (HW 39)
From this it may be said that whatever perfections have been
achieved in mankind’s evolution, we are neither to linger in the past
nor to cling to material perfections on the pathway of the soul. The
Báb expresses this same theme in a totally different way:
Man's highest station, however, is attained through faith in
God in every Dispensation and by acceptance of what hath
been revealed by Him, and not through learning; inasmuch
as in every nation there are learned men who are versed in
divers sciences . . . (SWB 89)
Finally, paradise is defined by Bahá’u’lláh regarding this “highest
station” as He returns full circle to the basic requirement for one to
enter paradise when He says
Empower me, then, O my God, to be reckoned among
them that have clung to Thy laws and precepts for the sake
of Thee alone, their eyes fixed on Thy face . . . These, indeed,
are they . . . whose Paradise is entrance into Thy presence and
reunion with Thee. (PM 299)
Covenant
Perhaps it is the Covenant between a Messenger of God and His
followers that is the most important aspect of faith. Without the
Covenant, faith may not be sustained nor is it likely to pass the test
of certitude. The explanation by the Báb defines what Bahá’u’lláh
refers to as the ‘Greater Covenant’:
The Lord of the universe hath never raised up a prophet nor
hath He sent down a Book unless He hath established His
covenant with all men, calling for their acceptance of the
next Revelation and of the next Book; inasmuch as the out-
pourings of His bounty are ceaseless and without limit. (SWB
87)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Bahá’u’lláh invokes the words of the Báb in establishing His own
validity:
Glorified art Thou, O My God! Bear Thou witness that,
through this Book, I have covenanted with all created
things concerning the Mission of Him Whom Thou shalt
make manifest, ere the covenant concerning Mine own
Mission had been established . . . (ESW 160)
The Covenant then is the anchor that holds everything together in
the life of a Bahá’í. It follows that the whole of society in the
World Order of Bahá’u’lláh will be likewise held together in the
fullness of time.
Say: ‘The light hath shone forth from the horizon of
Revelation, and the whole earth hath been illumined at the
coming of Him Who is the Lord of the Day of the
Covenant!' The doubters have perished, whilst he that
turned, guided by the light of assurance, unto the
Dayspring of Certitude hath prospered. (TB 119)
Progressive Revelation
In the Bayán the Báb reveals how the process of continuing
cycles of revelation brings new depths of spiritual knowledge and
understanding to the world of man. He explains that each new
dispensation is introduced by a Manifestation of God and that this is
like the rising of the sun each day. At the same time there is only one
sun regardless of the number of risings. Thus God is constant while
His Manifestations on earth are distinguished in Their human form.
The Truth that They bring is relevant to the time in which They
appear and to the capacity of the people in Their day. They may be
seen as outwardly different but in reality are fundamentally the same.
His writing during the time of His incarceration points out the relation-
ship between Divine Messengers using the example of Mu˙ammad:
It is clear and evident that the object of all preceding
Dispensations hath been to pave the way for the advent of
Mu˙ammad, the Apostle of God. These, including the
Mu˙ammadan Dispensation, have had, in their turn, as
their objective the Revelation proclaimed by the Qá'im.
The purpose underlying this Revelation, as well as those
that preceded it, has, in like manner, been to announce the
advent of the Faith of Him Whom God will make
manifest. And this Faith - the Faith of Him Whom God
will make manifest - in its turn, together with all the
Revelations gone before it, have as their object the
Manifestation destined to succeed it. (SWB 105-6)

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

Bahá’u’lláh again connects to the Báb by enlarging upon His
basic principle of Progressive Revelation in mystical terms that are
pregnant with mysteries yet to be discovered:
The door of the knowledge of the Ancient of Days being
thus closed in the face of all beings, the Source of infinite
grace, according to His saying, “His grace hath transcended
all things; My grace hath encompassed them all,” hath
caused those luminous Gems of Holiness to appear out of
the realm of the spirit, in the noble form of the human
temple, and be made manifest unto all men, that they may
impart unto the world the mysteries of the unchangeable
Being, and tell of the subtleties of His imperishable
Essence. (GWB 47)
Bahá’u’lláh revealed His Laws some twenty years after His
Revelation burst forth in the dark pit of Tihran and were purposely
held back until a propitious time even though His followers were
pressing with petitions for Him to reveal the new laws. In the Kitáb-
i-Aqdas there is a most interesting observation regarding Progressive
Revelation.
This divinely purposed delay in the revelation of the basic
laws of God for this age, and the subsequent gradual
implementation of their provisions, illustrate the principle
of progressive revelation which applies even within the
ministry of each Prophet. (KA Notes 219-20)
Proof
Of all the types of proof verifying the validity of a
Manifestation of God it is unquestionably the words as written by
Him that stand as the most convincing notwithstanding the
numerous instances of prophetic fulfillment. The Báb revealed
thousands upon thousands of verses that were disseminated among
the populace. They included His Epistles, His Prayers and
philosophical treatises. He wrote a thousand verses in the span of
five hours without pause, and His commentaries dealt with the lofty
themes of the “true understanding of God and of the oneness of His
Being . . .” (SWB 109) He did this in a way that astounded the doctors
and philosophers of the time. He summarized:
The evidence set forth by God can never be compared with
the evidences produced by any one of the peoples and
kindreds of the earth; and beyond a shadow of doubt no
evidence is set forth by God save through the One Who is
appointed as His supreme Testimony. Moreover, the proof
of revealed verses doth, alone and of itself, conclusively
demonstrate the utter impotence of all created things on

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

earth, for this is a proof which hath proceeded from God
and shall endure until the Day of Resurrection. (SWB 109)
Bahá’u’lláh completely embraces the claim of the Báb regarding the
Word of God as proof of His Truth:
And if thou dwellest in the land of testimony, content
thyself with that which He, Himself, hath revealed: “Is it
not enough for them that We have sent down unto Thee
the Book?” This is the testimony which He, Himself, hath
ordained; greater proof than this there is none, nor ever
will be: “This proof is His Word; His own Self, the
testimony of His truth.” (KI 91-2)
Unknowable Essence
The Báb made a statement that will forever stand the test of
scientific scrutiny no matter how far advanced it may become when
he says, in so many words, that God has always existed and will
continue to do so ad infinitum. Though we praise God, He is still
exalted above any mention and is not to be the subject of any
comparison. He further describes the unique condition of God as
being “inscrutable to all men” as He is the Creator of all that exists.
In the words of modern logicians, He is the only “uncaused cause” in
existence.1 Even when referring to Manifestations of God, He
makes an astonishing statement:
No created thing comprehendeth Him, while He in truth
comprehendeth all things. Even when it is said ‘no created
thing comprehendeth Him’, this refers to the Mirror of His
Revelation, that is Him Whom God shall make manifest.
Indeed too high and exalted is He for anyone to allude
unto Him. (SWB 113)
The very subject of the Báb’s commentary, Bahá’u’lláh,
completely embraces His concept of limitation in the relationship
between God and His Messengers when He describes Him as “the
unknowable Essence . . . exalted beyond every human attribute . . . ” He
further states:
Far be it from His glory that human tongue should
adequately recount His praise, or that human heart
comprehend His fathomless mystery. He is, and hath ever
been, veiled in the ancient eternity of His Essence, and will
remain in His Reality everlastingly hidden from the sight
of men. “No vision taketh in Him, but He taketh in all
vision; He is the Subtile, the All-Perceiving . . . " (GWB 46-8)

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

Sign of God in All Things
This subtitle is absolutely not meant to be confused with
pantheism, “the doctrine that the universe conceived of as a whole is
God and, conversely, that there is no God but the combined
substance, forces, and laws that are manifested in the existing
universe. The cognate doctrine of pantheism asserts that God
includes the universe as a part though not the whole of his being.”2
The Báb clearly defines the signs of God with this comment:
He hath moreover deposited within the realities of all
created things the emblem of His recognition, that
everyone may know of a certainty that He is the Beginning
and the End, the Manifest and the Hidden, the Maker and
the Sustainer, the Omnipotent and the All-Knowing, the
One Who heareth and perceiveth all things, He Who is
invincible in His power and standeth supreme in His Own
identity . . . (SWB 112)
Bahá’u’lláh takes these thoughts to a deeper level when He refers
to the soul as a sign of God and then characterizes the soul as a
forerunner or preparer that proclaims the reality of all the worlds of
God. (GWB 160-1) He then augments the Báb’s commentary.
Whatever is in the heavens and whatever is on the earth is
a direct evidence of the revelation within it of the
attributes and names of God, inasmuch as within every
atom are enshrined the signs that bear eloquent testimony
to the revelation of that Most Great Light . . . (GWB 177-8)
Eternity
In the Persian Bayán the Báb introduced an aspect of religion
that would characterize one of the fundamental principles of the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. He wrote, “The revelation of the Divine
Reality hath everlastingly been identical with its concealment and its
concealment identical with its revelation . . . ” What did He mean? His
explanation introduced a deeper question:
That which is intended by ‘Revelation of God' is the Tree
of divine Truth that betokeneth none but Him, and it is
this divine Tree that hath raised and will raise up
Messengers, and hath revealed and will ever reveal
Scriptures. From eternity unto eternity this Tree of divine
Truth hath served and will ever serve as the throne of the
revelation and concealment of God among His creatures,
and in every age is made manifest through whomsoever He
pleaseth. (SWB 112)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

From this we are assured that a Revelation from God is concealed
until a propitious time in accordance with His Will and that only
through the agency of His chosen Messenger can His Revelation be
revealed. The Báb’s comment thus plants the seed for the principle
of progressive revelation as enunciated by the Beloved Guardian,
Shoghi Effendi:
in accordance with the principle of progressive revelation
every Manifestation of God must needs vouchsafe to the
peoples of His day a measure of divine guidance ampler
than any which a preceding and less receptive age could
have received or appreciated. (WOB 102-3)
The mystery of concealment then is clarified when it is related to the
current level of civilization as inferred by Christ when He said to
His followers “I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot
bear them now.” But what did His comment “from eternity unto
eternity” mean? Was He just using a figure of speech to emphasize a
point? From the candor and tone of His writings it does not seem
likely that He would trivialize any cosmological notation with a mere
figure of speech. So what does eternity mean in the context of His
passage?
Eternity is defined as an endless or immeasurable time, that is, of
infinite duration. But time is called the period when something
occurs or it is the period during which an action, process, etc,
continues; it is of measured or measurable duration. Time is
therefore finite in contrast with infinite duration. (Webster’s) This
apparent contradiction reveals the ambiguous nature of word
meanings due perhaps to the subjective aspect of their origins when
compared to mathematical notations that are inherently rigorous.
Yet words are indispensable without which communication would be
impossible.
If eternity is intrinsic to the concept of time then it must be
relegated to the phenomenal world, the world of action, momentum,
energy and relativity. But what about that world without time or
place, the spiritual world that we are destined to enter once we’ve
given up the physical garment? Interactions that occur in that state
are completely devoid of physical limitation. Eternity in that
Kingdom has no real meaning; it could either be a moment or
forever when put in terms of our limited understanding.
There is an analogy to this in the theory of relativity when,
according to the Lorenz transformation that Einstein implemented
in his theory, an entity moves with the speed of light it literally
stands still within its relative time frame by virtue of the dilation of
time or distance primarily because the speed of light has a finite
limit. For example, if an individual on earth could view a clock

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

mounted on a space ship that is moving away close to the speed of
light he would observe that the hands of the clock were moving very
slowly while a passenger inside would see them moving at a normal
rate! Thus the observer would see a moment of time lasting for a
very long time while the passenger inside would see a specific
beginning and end to each passing second. The relative nature of
time then allows the coexistence of a beginning and no beginning
depending upon the observer and likewise of an end without an
ending. In other words it allows for finite periods within eternal
duration on a cosmic scale. In any event the Báb infers that by
eternity is meant time in the phenomenal sense with endless cycles in
which God provides divine guidance. But how can there be more
than one eternity?
First, the seed of thought about eternity planted by the Báb is
brought into focus by Bahá’u’lláh when He states:
A sprinkling from the unfathomed deep of His sovereign
and all-pervasive Will hath, out of utter nothingness,
called into being a creation which is infinite in its range
and deathless in its duration. The wonders of His bounty
can never cease, and the stream of His merciful grace can
never be arrested. The process of His creation hath had no
beginning, and can have no end. (GWB 61)
The mystery deepens. If we have eternity followed by another
eternity inferred by the Báb how can we have a creation with no
beginning and no end as stated by Bahá’u’lláh? For one thing,
talking about limits versus non-limits in this way quickly becomes
redundant due to limitations of language, so a different approach is
necessary. Too, we are treading the deep water of cosmological
questions that are beyond one’s individual capacity to solve.
Moreover, the process of creation takes many forms and is God
ordained as attested by Bahá’u’lláh: “In every age and cycle He hath,
through the splendorous light shed by the Manifestations of His
wondrous Essence, recreated all things . . . ” (GWB 61) Second, to put
the question to rest we may further appeal to Bahá’u’lláh where He
writes in the Seven Valleys:
Although the divine worlds be never ending, yet some refer
to them as four: The world of time (zaman), which is the
one that hath both a beginning and an end; the world of
duration (dahr), which hath a beginning, but whose end is
not revealed; the world of perpetuity (sarmad), whose
beginning is not to be seen but which is known to have an
end; and the world of eternity (azal), neither a beginning
nor an end of which is visible. (SV 45)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Finally, to validate the Báb’s meaning regarding eternity,
Bahá’u’lláh’s Son ‘Abdu’l-Bahá reinforces His Father’s statements.
Briefly, there were many universal cycles preceding this one
in which we are living. They were consummated, completed
and their traces obliterated. The divine and creative
purpose in them was the evolution of spiritual man, just as
it is in this cycle. The circle of existence is the same circle;
it returns. The tree of life has ever borne the same heavenly
fruit. (PUP 220)
The forgoing discussion provides an interesting example of
Bahá’u’lláh’s principle that there must be harmony between science
and religion. For current theory holds that the universe was born in a
point of ‘singularity’, which exploded in The Big Bang, from which
it has expanded for the last 13.7 billion years.3 It remains to prove if
it will ultimately collapse and recycle in the far distant future or
continue on an endless journey. The important thing to note is that
whereas science struggles to explain how things happen, religion
explains why they happen as mentioned above by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The
‘why’ or purpose behind phenomena is further confirmed by
Bahá’u’lláh when He said that God has “recreated all things so that
whatsoever reflecteth in the heavens and on the earth the signs of
His glory may not be deprived of the outpourings of His mercy, nor
despair of the showers of His favors.” (GWB 61-2) He further states:
Just as the conception of faith hath existed from the
beginning that hath no beginning, and will endure till the
end that hath no end, in like manner will the true believer
eternally live and endure. His spirit will everlastingly circle
round the Will of God. (GWB 141)
The fascinating way that the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh transcend the
physical and spiritual worlds in such seamless fashion with their use
of language obliterates apparent contradictions in both spiritual and
physical terms. Yet they leave us with the tantalizing prospect of
deeper meanings that only a humble approach can hope to unravel.
He Whom God Shall Make Manifest
One aspect of the mystic bond between the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh
is dramatically reflected in His frequent repetition of the words “He
Whom God Shall make manifest.” Prophet Founders of the great
religions of the past have always told their followers about another
one to come in the fullness of time. Of course significant spans of
time separated them but in the case of the Báb, the one to follow
Him was contemporary in time and place. This is unprecedented in
the annals of religion and one might be tempted to ask the question
as to why two Manifestations of God were simultaneously necessary

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

in the mid-nineteenth century, but that is not in our purview to
consider because God can do whatever He chooses. On the other
hand if one reflects upon the enormity of the mission of unifying
mankind in 1844 it becomes obvious that people in the world then
were not prepared to accept universal unity in a single moment with
all the quake like social readjustments that it would entail. Stages of
change are therefore required.
Thus, progress comes in incremental steps that may at times be
very large. Such was the situation when the Báb declared His
mission. With each new cycle of Revelation a new Divine Messenger
must abrogate the laws of the immediate previous dispensation.
Islam was the last before the Báb in the line of prophetic
dispensations and had an enormous following. It had seen its birth
with Mu˙ammad and rose to its zenith in the first few centuries of
growth then tragically fell into a long sunset of corruption as
prophetically depicted in the book of Revelations. (SAQ 45-61) The
great sacrifices needed to abrogate the laws of Islam included the
martyrdom of a most precious being in the person of the Báb.
Immediately, from the time of that brutal event forward, the
unification of the religions and peoples of the world would require
the efforts of a new Manifestation of God. From this we can see
that there were two stages in the closing of the “Adamic cycle” and
the birth of a whole new cycle in the spiritual evolution of
humankind. And the Báb, Who initiated the process, was very clear
about admonishing His followers to accept Bahá’u’lláh. He said:
Know thou of a certainty that whenever thou makest
mention of Him Whom God shall make manifest, only
then art thou making mention of God . . .  (SWB 80)
And know thou of a certainty that by Paradise is meant
recognition of and submission unto Him Whom God shall
make manifest, and by the fire the company of such souls
as would fail to submit unto Him or to be resigned to His
good-pleasure. (SWB 82)
Bahá’u’lláh quotes the Báb’s admonition that one should look
upon the Messenger to come with the eyes of that Messenger
otherwise one would be veiled from Him. This infers that one must
detach from any preconceived notions about a Divine Messenger at
the time of His rising. Our own eyes are too closely connected with
human limitations to be able to see with spiritual clarity unless and
until we open our hearts and minds to a new reality. (ESW 154-5)
Stage of Seed
So far, we have examined a number of basic concepts in religion
that were introduced by the Báb and reverently embraced by

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Bahá’u’lláh. The ramifications of these concepts were clarified with
deeper meanings by the Blessed Beauty concurrently with His
Revelation regarding new laws for the spiritual unification of
mankind. Bahá’u’lláh quotes the Báb as He characterizes this
fascinating process:
Ere nine will have elapsed from the inception of this
Cause, the realities of the created things will not be made
manifest. All that thou hast as yet seen is but the stage
from the moist germ until We clothed it with flesh. Be
patient, until thou beholdest a new creation . . . (ESW 152)
It was in fact nine years after the declaration of the Báb that the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh became full blown in the dark pit of
Tihran. The Báb had also commented earlier regarding the
consummation of Islam and His statement categorically identified
what is now taken as a key point in this essay, the idea that the
Bayán is the beginning or the “seed” for a new dispensation to
follow.
The Resurrection of the Bayán will occur at the time of the
appearance of Him Whom God shall make manifest. For
today the Bayán is in the stage of seed; at the beginning of
the manifestation of Him Whom God shall make manifest
its ultimate perfection will become apparent.
He continues to explain that a new Manifestation will be brought
into being for the purpose of “gathering the fruits” of His own, the
Báb’s Revelation in a manner similar to the transition from
Mu˙ammad to the Qá’im. He further states: “The fruits of Islam
cannot be gathered except through allegiance unto Him [the
Qá'im] and by believing in Him.” (SWB 107-8) A deep spiritual
intimacy between the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh is thus revealed here
though they never actually met. It further shows the powerful sense
of continuity of the Word of God as expressed through the agency
of these two Divine Manifestations and by extrapolation, between
all Manifestations of God. When viewed in this light it makes the
divisiveness of world religion seem utterly absurd.
Sadly, the very One that the people should have embraced for the
gathering of the fruits of Islam was imprisoned by them in the
Mountain of Máh-Kú. As He explained, the Qur’án promised a day
of resurrection for all and that all would be brought before the
presence of God but since it would be impossible “to appear before
the Most Holy Essence of God” then the only feasibility “is
attainment unto the Primal Tree.” (SWB 108)

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

Station of Bahá’u’lláh
Bahá’u’lláh is the Manifestation of God in this Day. His
dispensation will last at least a full millennium and the new cycle in
His name will span a myriad of new dispensations to come that will
cover a half million years. (WOB 101-2) These are bold statements but
when taken in the context of religious evolution their validity
becomes self evident. From the beginning of the Adamic cycle
through the conclusion of the dispensation of Mu˙ammad there has
been an ever-widening aspect of spiritual needs in the life of man.
From the individual relationship of man to God in the days of
Adam. Then the first to acknowledge God, through the family as a
sanctified unit occurred in the days of Noah, wherein the process of
deepening awareness of a Creator became integral to the human
conscience. This advanced to the tribal unit of Abraham and then to
unified governance based on explicit laws in the days of Moses.
When Christ came, the city state of Helenic culture was the primary
basis for governance especially Rome, and He conquered her vast
domain by the fourth century. Then by the sixth century the concept
of unity of nationhood became dominant with the advent of
Mu˙ammad. Now the world of nations is in dire need of global
spiritual unity. The social and moral crises in the modern world
demands a Divine physician, and that physician, Bahá’u’lláh, was
introduced and exalted by the Báb through His own brief
Dispensation.
Better is it for a person to write down but one of His
verses than to transcribe the whole of the Bayán and all the
books, which have been written in the Dispensation of the
Bayán. For everything shall be set aside except His
Writings, which will endure until the following Revelation.
And should anyone inscribe with true faith but one letter
of that Revelation, his recompense would be greater than
for inscribing all the heavenly Writings of the past and all
that has been written during previous Dispensations.
Likewise continue thou to ascend through one Revelation
after another, knowing that thy progress in the Knowledge
of God shall never come to an end, even as it can have no
beginning. (SWB 91)
Bahá’u’lláh characterizes the new Day and His own emergence:
O thou that hast fixed thine eyes upon My countenance!
The Day Spring of Glory hath, in this Day, manifested its
radiance, and the Voice of the Most High is calling. We
have formerly uttered these words: “This is not the day for
any man to question his Lord. It behoveth whosoever hath
hearkened to the Call of God, as voiced by Him Who is the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Day Spring of Glory, to arise and cry out: ‘Here am I, here
am I, O Lord of all Names; here am I, here am I, O Maker
of the heavens! I testify that, through Thy Revelation, the
things hidden in the Books of God have been revealed, and
that whatsoever hath been recorded by Thy Messengers in
the sacred Scriptures hath been fulfilled.’” (GWB 163-5)
In His last major work He harks back to a comment by the Báb
that draws into bold relief His enormous respect for Bahá’u’lláh:
Lawful is it for Him Whom God will make manifest to
reject him who is greatest on earth, inasmuch as such a one
is but a creature in His grasp, and all things adore Him.
After Him a Cause shall be given unto you which ye shall
come to know. (ESW 152)
Station of the Báb
The Báb was a Manifestation of God Whose Ministry occurred
at the confluence of the closing of the Adamic cycle and the Birth
of the Bahá’í era. The Primal point fulfilled an absolutely critical
mission as the Herald of a new age that would hearken the
beginning of maturity for humankind. Bahá’u’lláh extols the
importance of the Báb in most exalted terms:
Magnify Thou, O Lord my God, Him Who is the Primal
Point, the Divine Mystery, the Unseen Essence, the Day-
Spring of Divinity, and the Manifestation of Thy Lordship,
through Whom all the knowledge of the past and all the
knowledge of the future were made plain, through Whom
the pearls of Thy hidden wisdom were uncovered, and the
mystery of Thy treasured name disclosed, Whom Thou hast
appointed as the Announcer of the One through Whose
name the letter B and the letter E have been joined and
united, through Whom Thy majesty, Thy sovereignty and
Thy might were made known, through Whom Thy words
have been sent down, and Thy laws set forth with clearness,
and Thy signs spread abroad, and Thy Word established,
through Whom the hearts of Thy chosen ones were laid
bare . . . (PM 84-6)
The Báb constantly reminded His followers of “Him Whom God
shall make manifest” but never seemed to mention Him by name. It
has often been said that Mírzá Óusayn-‘Alí “took” the name of
Bahá’u’lláh and He surely became designated by that title at the
conference of Badasht which occurred in June of 1848. In early
April of that year the Báb was removed from Máh-Kú to Chihríq.
(DB 259) However, well before that conference, there was an
instance during the Báb’s nine months of incarceration in the prison

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

castle of Máh-Kú when He wrote a definitive statement in the
Bayán regarding the Glory of God as described by Shoghi Effendi,
the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith.
It should be noted, in this connection, that in the third
Vahid of this Book there occurs a passage which, alike in
its explicit reference to the name of the Promised One, and
in its anticipation of the Order which, in a later age, was to
be identified with His Revelation, deserves to rank as one
of the most significant statements recorded in any of the
Báb's writings. “Well is it with him,” is His prophetic
announcement, “who fixeth his gaze upon the Order of
Bahá'u'lláh, and rendereth thanks unto his Lord. For He
will assuredly be made manifest. God hath indeed
irrevocably ordained it in the Bayán.” (GPB 25-6)
But until the Promised One were to appear, the Báb in reference to
His Own Dispensation maintained:
In this Revelation the Lord of the universe hath deigned to
bestow His mighty utterances and resplendent signs upon
the Point of the Bayán, and hath ordained them as His
matchless testimony for all created things. Were all the
people that dwell on earth to assemble together, they
would be unable to produce a single verse like unto the
ones which God hath caused to stream forth from the
tongue of the Point of the Bayán. Indeed, if any living
creature were to pause to meditate he would undoubtedly
realize that these verses are not the work of man, but are
solely to be ascribed unto God, the One, the Peerless, Who
causeth them to flow forth from the tongue of
whomsoever He willeth, and hath not revealed nor will He
reveal them save through the Focal Point of God's Primal
Will. (SWB 104-5)
Conclusion
The Báb introduced concepts regarding faith and human
relations that were revolutionary for the time and place in which
they were uttered. The proof of His station and the truth of His
Revelation were so profound, so powerful that He was brutally
martyred by the Persian leaders out of abject fear of His charismatic
popularity. This happened six short years after His declaration in
1844. Three years later, in fulfillment of the Báb’s prophecy, a new
Dispensation was born in the dark pit of Teheran through a new
Messenger
of
God,
Bahá’u’lláh.
He
and
the
Báb
were
contemporaries but never physically met, yet an extraordinary
relationship emerged that would forever tie Them together as the

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Twin Manifestations of the Bahá’í Dispensation. The Báb
introduced new concepts in religion as He addressed the Shiite world
by abrogating the laws of Islam. Bahá’u’lláh introduced a great
number of new concepts as He addressed the world by abrogating
many laws of the world’s great religions and, in fact by utterly
disenfranchising the sanctity of priesthood. He also enlarged upon a
number of the Báb’s concepts and permanently made some of them
part of the foundation of His own Faith. The mystical bond between
them and their spiritual reality that intertwines in mysterious ways
that far exceed intelligence or the senses is confirmed by Bahá’u’lláh
when He refers to the Báb’s explication “I am the first to adore
Him, and pride Myself on My kinship with Him.” (ESW 158-9) What
does this intriguing relationship between these two Divine
Messengers of God mean in its finality? What impetus does it hold
for the third millennium? At the very least we are in the early stages
of implementing the Divine Plan as envisioned in the World Order
of Bahá’u’lláh that began with the seeds planted by the Báb. And
now, the fire of light is blazing, the call has echoed through all the
halls of knowledge and the heart of every soul on earth has been
touched if only they knew it. The resurrection has occurred and it is
the destiny of this generation’s believers to arise to help others
awaken and to make way for that “Kingdom of God on Earth” that
has been so long in waiting.

NOTES
1 Love, Power and Justice, 82.
2 Encyclopedia Britannica 2005 Delux CD-ROM, Pantheism.
3 L.A. Times, 03-10-04, sec A20, Associated Press.
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Encyclopedia Britannica 2005 Delux CD-ROM. Pantheism.
L.A. Times. Section A20, Associated Press, 03-10-04
William Hatcher. Love, Power and Justice, Wilmette, Ill.: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1998.

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

The Bahá’í Faith in the Arabic
Speaking Middle East
Part 1 (1753-1863)
by Ramsey Zeine
Introduction
The population of Arab1 countries extending from the Gulf
States to the Atlantic Ocean is about 280 million people2. The few
among them who have heard about the Bahá’í Faith tend to have a
distorted view characterized by misconceptions3. In the current
environment of acrimonious accelerated change, growing open-
mindedness, interest in knowing about “the other”, and as human-
rights take on a more meaningful application, opportunities will
eventually enable Bahá’ís to publicly present a true picture of the
history and teachings of the Faith4.
Upon learning about the existence of the Bahá’í Faith, religious
communities around the world normally express an interest related
to specific issues. They want to know something about its history
and teachings. Understandably, they also tend to question the
relationship between selected verses in their own scriptures, such as
those related to finality of revelation and prophecy, with the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.
In the predominantly Persian Moslem Shí’ah environment, these
issues have been addressed by the Bahá’í community which gradually
came into being about 150 years ago in Iran. As a result of the
ongoing dialogue between Bahá’ís and their Shí’ah compatriots a
considerable body of Bahá’í literature developed addressing certain
verses in the Holy Qur’án and Shí’ah traditions. Over the years a
growing segment of the Iranian population heard about the Faith
from authorities and clergy, albeit in a heavily distorted manner,
often as a result of widely publicized waves of persecution. As a
result, one of the major challenges facing Persian Bahá’ís is to
simultaneously correct widely spread misconceptions and to present a
comprehensive true picture of the teachings and history of the
Bahá’í Faith.
In the predominantly Arab Moslem Sunni environment, the same
challenges related to certain verses of the Qur’án and tradition
exist, but in some instances they need to be addressed from a Sunni
perspective. A body of Bahá’í literature in Arabic developed over

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

the years for this purpose5. However in Arab lands additional
challenges may well face those who would set out to provide a true
picture of the Cause and to correct misconceptions. One of these
challenges could be an incorrect perception of the identity of the
Faith.
Occasionally, during dialogue, Moslems of Arab culture question
the origin of the Bahá’í Faith. It is understandable that Moslems in
general, especially those of Arabic culture, have a great love for the
Arabic Language, the fact that the Qur'án is in Arabic and that the
Prophet Mu˙ammad (peace be upon him) was an Arab6. With its
origins in the Bábí religion in Persia, the Bahá’í Faith may be
misconstrued from an Arab perspective as being a ‘foreign Persian'
religion. This would constitutes for some a divide between the Arabs
and the Bahá’í Faith. It is therefore a formidable challenge to be
addressed.
In an effort to address this possible misconception and generate
an environment where constructive dialogue prevails, this paper
proposes presenting the history of the Faith with the intent of
identifying commonalities that are of interest to Arabs. The premise
of this paper suggests that by highlighting certain historical facts,
the Faith will be seen in a light which is neither foreign nor distant
from that which is of value to people of Arabic culture.
The focus of this paper on matters of interest to people of Arab
culture may create an impression of bias towards giving the Bahá’í
Faith some level of Arab identity. To avoid this impression, it is
important to keep in mind the points mentioned below concerning
the supra-national identity of world religions, as well as the
contributions of peoples amongst whom they first appeared.
1. Bahá’u’lláh identifies the Faith He heralds as “. . . the
changeless Faith of God, eternal in the past, eternal in the
future.” (GWB 136) Sacred texts of other religions also affirm
the changeless eternal aspect of the Cause of God.7 Therefore
identities of origin, whenever mentioned, should be seen
simply as pointers to a launching stage in the unfolding
destiny of the “changeless Faith of God”. In its essence,
religion transcends the identity of geography, nationality and
people. The fact that God reveals the various stages of His
Changeless Faith through chosen Individuals, at certain times,
in certain geographical locations, amongst certain people,
does not imply that a religion belongs to — is owned by -
those people and is limited to its geographical location. Thus
for example, Islam, born in Arabia, is not an Arab religion; It
is universal.

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

2. During His lifetime and multiple exiles, Bahá’u’lláh dwelt
amongst Persians, Arabs, Kurds and Turks, and interacted
with peoples of Zoroastrian, Jewish, Christian and Moslem
religions. A comprehensive balanced history of the Faith
would need to highlight matters of importance related to the
interactions of Bahá’u’lláh with these ethnic identities and
religions.
3. In the same way that early Christian believers arose from the
shores of Galilee, and early Moslem believers arose from the
tribe of Quraysh, early Bahá’í believers arose from Iran.
Common factors shared between such early believers include
the fact that they had to simultaneously face the brunt of
persecution while striving to spread their new Faiths. The
sacrificial contribution of the Persian Bahá’ís is unequaled in
Bahá’í history. The tribulations, often blood-drenched, they
suffered have not abated since the inception of the Faith
over a century and a half ago. Among the accolades of
distinction born by the Persian Bahá’í community are the
following:
•
With all due admiration and respect for pioneers from a
number of countries, during the first Bahá’í century, the
Bahá’ís of Iran were by far the ones who left their country
in relatively considerable numbers to spread the Message
of Bahá’u’lláh in many lands. As such, they have a most
outstanding record of pioneering around the world.
•
They continue to be the most developed Bahá’í
community despite the continuous challenges they face.8
Nevertheless, neither the Persian Bahá’ís, nor their fellow
believers, nor in fact any serious student of religion can, in the light
of the teachings of the Faith and Its world-wide spread, consider It
as either belonging to Iran, or of being a Persian religion. Similarly,
facts of interest to Arabs, or to any of the several other cultures
within which the Faith grew, are not in any way intended to give any
identity to the changeless Faith of God. Rather, such facts, as they
gradually come to light through research, serve to reinforce the
concept that from the very beginning, the Bahá’í Faith had a broad
multi-national, multi-cultural foundation.
With this understanding, we return to the focus of this paper
which touches briefly on a few occurrences within a limited early
period of history (1753-1863), and which are of interest to people
of Arab culture. More research is needed across a longer period9 to
uncover important milestones of the Cause in the Arabic speaking
Middle East. Consequently, this paper puts out an appeal to scholars
who understand the needs of this critical time of upheaval and

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

change, and who are far more professionally qualified than the
author, to arise and shoulder the responsibility of uncovering
milestones of bonding value between Arabs and the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh.
Subjects of interest to Arabs are outlined under the following
main headings: Matters of Identity; Early Arab believers; Bahá’u’lláh
- Milestones in Arab Lands, and Surat Al-A‘ráb,10 a Tablet revealed
by Bahá’u’lláh in the prison of ‘Akká, addressed to Arab believers in
Baghdad and its surroundings. It is with sincere appreciation that I
offer my gratitude to a distinguished Persian Bahá’í friend, who
pointed out the importance of researching matters relating the
Bahá’í Faith to peoples of Arab culture, and inspired this humble
research effort.
Matters of Identity
Shaykh Ahmad-i-Ahsá’í
Shaykh Ahmad-i-Ahsá’í (1753-1831) is identified in the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas as the one “ . . . who was the founder of the Shaykhi School and
the first of the ‘twin luminaries that heralded the advent of the
Faith of the Báb.’” (KA Note 171, p. 239)
Shoghi Effendi11, quoting A.L.M. Nicolas, lists the genealogy of
Shaykh Ahmad-i-Ahsá’í. It consists of a series of Arab names.
His genealogy, according to his son Shaykh Abdu’lláh, is
the following: “Shaykh Ahmad-ibn-i-Zaynu'd-Din-ibn-i-
Ibrahim-ibn-i-Sakhr-ibn-i-Ibrahim-ibn-i-Zahir-ibn-i-
Ramadan-ibn-i-Rashid-ibn-i-Dahim-ibn-i-Shimrukh-ibn-i-
Sulih.” (Essai sur le Shaykhisme, p. 1)
In another note from the same source, we have the birthplace of
Shaykh Ahmad, as well as the origin of his religious persuasion.
“Born Rajab, 1166 A.H., 24th of April-24th of May, 1753, in (the)
town of Ahsa in district of Ahsa, northeast of Arabian peninsula.”
(Essai sur le Shaykhisme 1) “Born a Shi’ah, though his ancestors were
Sunnis.” (Ibid., 2)
Hand of the Cause of God Óasan Balyuzi, identifies the Arab tribe
of Sheikh Ahmad.
Shaykh Ahmad-i-Ahsá’í . . . the founder of the Shaykhi
school, belonged to the ancient tribe of Banu-Sakhr, and
his family originated from the region of Ahsa on the
Arabian mainland. His father's name was Shaykh Zayni'd-
Din, and Bahrayn had been their home.12

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

In other words, Shaykh Ahmad-i-Ahsá’í, the first individual to
herald the dawn of the new Revelation, was an Arab from the
ancient Arab tribe of Banu-Sakhr, as can be further observe from his
name, Ahsá’í. He arose from Al-Ahsa’ Northeast of the Arabian
Peninsula, an Arab territory within the Ottoman Empire, and
proceeded to commence his mission in another Arab part of the
Empire, Najaf and Karbala13 in Iraq.
The Báb
Historic identity by descent
The Báb was born in Shiraz and therefore had a Persian identity
by birth. However, Mr. Balyuzi informs us of His historic identity.
Siyyid (or Mírzá) 'Alí-Mu˙ammad, known to history as the
Báb, was the son of Siyyid (or Mir) Mu˙ammad-Rida, a
mercer of Shiraz. He was born on October 20th 1819
(Muharram 1st, 1235 A.H.). Through both His father and
His mother He was descended from Imam Óusayn the third
Imam.14 Thus He stood in direct line of descent from the
Prophet Mu˙ammad.15
“This Arabian Youth”
The Báb mentions His historic identity in His Writings by
referring to Himself on occasion as “This Arabian Youth”. For
example:
O peoples of the earth! Give ear unto God's holy Voice
proclaimed by this Arabian Youth Whom the Almighty
hath graciously chosen for His Own Self. He is indeed
none other than the True One, Whom God hath entrusted
with this Mission from the midst of the Burning Bush.
(SWB 50)
It should be noted that the Báb also referred to Himself as Persian
Youth. In an epistle sent to Mu˙ammad Shah from Bushihr, the Báb
wrote (provisional translation) “Know thou O King that I am a
Persian Youth (Fata A’jamii) from the merchant class . . .”  16
First Action — Pilgrimage to Mecca
The first formal action the Báb undertook after declaring His
mission and receiving a letter from Mullá Óusayn, was a pilgrimage
to Mecca17. There, in the heartland of both Islam and the Arab
world, He, in an Epistle conveyed by Quddus, called upon the Sherif
of Mecca to embrace the truth of the new Revelation.

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

Writings in Arabic
The first Tablet revealed by the Báb on the eve of His
declaration to Mullá Óusayn, the Súrih of Muluk, was in Arabic. It
is the first chapter of “the Qayyum-i-Asma', His celebrated
commentary on the Surih of Joseph, revealed in the first year of His
Mission, and characterized by Bahá'u'lláh as ‘the first, the greatest,
and mightiest of all books’ in the Bábí Dispensation . . . ” (PDC 27) A
considerable volume of the Writings of the Báb is in Arabic,
including another major work known as the “Arabic Bayán”.
In brief, the Báb, a Manifestation of God and forerunner of
Bahá’u’lláh, was of Persian origin by birth and of Arab historic
origin by descent from the House of the Prophet Mu˙ammad, peace
be upon Him. His revealed Word was both in the Persian and Arabic
languages, and He, in some Tablets, referred to Himself as “This
Arabian Youth”. The first mission He undertook was to Mecca, the
heartland of Islam and the Arab world.
Early Arab Believers
Fruits of the Steadfastness of Mullá Alí Bastámí
After the Báb declared His Revelation to the Letters of the
Living, and instructed Mullá Óusayn to proceed on a mission which
eventually brought him into indirect contact with Bahá’u’lláh, Nabil,
in his “The Dawn-Breakers”, informs us that:
The Báb then summoned to His presence Mullá Alíy-i-
Bastámí, and addressed to him words of cheer and loving-
kindness. He instructed him to proceed directly to Najaf
and Karbila, alluded to the severe trials and afflictions that
would befall him, and enjoined him to be steadfast till the
end. "Your faith," He told him, "must be immovable as the
rock, must weather every storm and survive every calamity.
Suffer not the denunciations of the foolish and the
calumnies of the clergy to afflict you, or to turn you from
your purpose. For you are called to partake of the celestial
banquet prepared for you in the immortal Realm. You are
the first to leave the House of God, and to suffer for His
sake. If you be slain in His path, remember that great will
be your reward, and goodly the gift which will be bestowed
upon you. (DB 85)
After a series of further developments, we read,
Mullá Alíy-i-Bastámí, though the first to fall a victim to
the relentless hate of the enemy, underwent his persecution
in Iraq, which lay beyond the confines of Persia. (DB 146)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Shaykh Mu˙ammad-i-Shibl
When Mullá Alíy-i-Bastámí was imprisoned in Baghdad, the
governor appointed a number of clergy to study his case. One of
them was an Arab named Shaykh Mu˙ammad Shibl. Hand of the
Cause Mr. Óasan Balyuzi provides two outstanding facts, one
relating Mu˙ammad Shibl to the Shaykhi movement through Siyyid
Kazim-i-Rashti the successor of Shaykh Ahmad Ahsá’í. The other is
about Mu˙ammad Shibl himself, embracing the Faith of Mullá
'Alíy-i-Bastámí, the investigated. Balyuzi wrote:
. . . Shaykh Mu˙ammad Shibl, was a distinguished follower
of the Shaykhi leader, Siyyid Kazim-i-Rashti, and was
indeed his personal representative in Baghdad . . . When
Mullá 'Alíy-i-Bastámí, the Letter of the Living, was
brought to Baghdad and imprisoned, Shaykh Mu˙ammad
Shibl visited him in prison, learnt of the claim of the Báb
and became a believer.18
A fourth generation descendent of Shaykh Mu˙ammad Shibl,
Dr. Kamran Ekbal, provides this interesting insight which puts a
time scale on the period of investigation.
Shaykh Mu˙ammad Shibl was among the group of Ulama
who, in accordance with an order issued by Najeeb Pasha,
the Vali of Baghdad, were present during the three month
period of the trial of Mullá ‘Alíy-i-Bastámí. 19
Shaykh Mu˙ammad Shibl was therefore either the first, or amongst
the first, Arabs to believe in the Báb. He served the Faith with
devotion and fortitude. Dr. Ekbal provides a comment of historic
importance to women’s liberation, involving the cooperation of a
Persian believer with an Arab believer. He writes
At the home of Shaykh Mu˙ammad Shibl in Baghdad, long
before the conference of Badasht, Qurrat Al-‘Ain used to
appear without a veil and address her students. Some of the
students complained to the Báb. The Báb, in one of His
Tablets, gave her the title of ˇahirih.20
Mírzá Mu˙ammad Mustafa Baghdadi
Mírzá Mu˙ammad Mustafa Baghdadi was the son of Shaykh
Mu˙ammad Shibl. Mr. Balyuzi provides us with a synopsis of his
life:
. . . Mírzá Mustafa, who was born in Baghdad in about
1837. During the period that Bahá'u'lláh was in Baghdad,
Mírzá Mustafa became devoted to Him, although, of
course, Bahá'u'lláh had not put forward a claim at this

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

time. In 1874 Mírzá Mustafa was arrested along with many
others of the Bahá'ís of Baghdad, and after this he
travelled to 'Akká and sought permission from Bahá'u'lláh
to live in the vicinity of that city. Bahá'u'lláh instructed
him to take up his residence in Beirut where he was
frequently of service to those Bahá'ís travelling to 'Akká.
After the ascension of Bahá'u'lláh, he moved to
Alexandretta (Iskandarun), where he died in 1910.21
The love of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá for Mírzá Mu˙ammad
Mustafa Baghdadi, and the magnitude of his services to the Faith
can be appreciated by the fact that, as Dr Ekbal explains, he “was
the recipient of more than 150 Tablets revealed for him by
Bahá’u’lláh, and 250 Tablets revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.”22 Dr. Ekbal
believes that “ . . . Mu˙ammad Mustafa was probably the recipient of
the highest number of Tablets, both from Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá.”
It is therefore no wonder that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá immortalized
Mu˙ammad Mustafa in His “Memorials of the Faithful”. (MF 130)
He described him as being a “Blazing Light . . . The hostile were afraid
to attack him”. He “attended upon Bahá’u’lláh after His return
from Kurdistan . . . he was the leader among the friends in Iraq.”23 He
“became a believer prior to the declaration of Bahá’u’lláh”.
After the ascension of Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá continues,
Mu˙ammad Mustafa “stood so firm against the waverers that they
dared not draw a breath. He was like a shooting star . . . Not one of
the violators so much as dared pass through the street where he lived
. . . ” (MF 130)
Dr. Zia Baghdadi
Mr. Balyuzi mentions two of the descendants of Mohammad
Mustafa:
Throughout his life Aqa Mu˙ammad-Mustafa served the
Faith which he had embraced, with zeal and distinction. He
spent many years in Beirut where he attended to the needs
and requirements of pilgrims. His son, Aqa Óusayn Iqbal,
did the same in subsequent years, with great devotion.
Another son, Dr. Zia Bagdadi (Dr. Diya Baghdadi) resided
in the United States, where his services were inestimable.24
The Gold Trowel
During the course of laying the corner stone for the House of
Worship in Wilmette,

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Irene Holmes handed ‘Abdu’l-Bahá a small, gold trowel
which she had ordered for this very purpose, and He dug
the earth to lay the corner-stone, having chosen for this a
fragment of rock brought by Mrs. Nettie Tobin as her
offering. Having done so, He invited the delegates of
various American communities to do likewise. Following
them, 'Abdu'l-Bahá asked a number of oriental Bahá'ís
present to step forth and take part: Mihtar Ardishir
Bahram
Surush
represented
Bahá’ís
of
Zoroastrian
background, Siyyid Asadu’lláh stood in for Bahá’ís of
Muslim origin, Dr Zia (Diya) Bagdadi (Baghdadi)
represented Arab Bahá'ís, and Ghodsieh (Qudsiyyih)
Khanum-i-Ashraf the Bahá’í women of the Orient. Then
the corner-stone was laid in place.25
Sheikh Ja’afar Al-Tahhan
One of the most enduring services Sheikh Mohammad Mustafa
Baghdadi rendered to present day Lebanon26 was laying the
foundation for the establishment of a Bahá’í community in the
village of Mashghará, South of the Beka’ valley, about 80 Km
South East of Beirut. Mr. Sami Al-Tahhan, of the Bahá’ís of
Mashghará, kindly provided the author with a hand-written note on
which the following account is based:
Sometime in the late 1880’s Sheikh Mohammad Mustafa
Baghdadi taught the Faith to Sheikh Ja’afar Al-Tahhan in
the town of Saida (Sidon), about 40 KM South of Beirut,
probably giving him the distinction of being the first
person to become a Bahá’í in what later became known as
Lebanon. Sheikh Ja’afar, was born in 1843 to a prominent
Shí‘ah family. He came from Iraq in 1881 and settled in
the predominantly Shí‘ah village of Mashghará. His
profound knowledge enabled him to become the Imam of
Mashghará, a responsibility he carried for sometime after
becoming a Bahá’í.
Through Mustafa Baghdadi, Sheikh Ja’afar attained the
presence of Bahá’u’lláh and later attained the presence of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá twice in Egypt.
The strong faith of Sheikh Ja’afar enabled him to
withstand the considerable persecution of the villagers
who, once his Faith became known, treated him with
hostility. His steadfastness was passed on to his three boys
who embraced the Faith and to the fourth boy who was a
close friend of the Faith. The children of all four boys and
their grandchildren embraced the Faith. When their

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

daughters married Shi’as, their husbands also embraced the
faith. Thus a fully Lebanese Bahá’í community gradually
came into being. Their Spiritual Assembly was formed in
1967. They have their own Bahá’í cemetery. The fortitude
of this community in withstanding abuse and boycott is a
shining example highly admired by all who know them.
Sheikh Ja’afar passed away in 1924 and was buried in the
Moslem cemetery of the village. In the 1970’s, his remains,
with the approval of the Universal House of Justice, were
moved to the Bahá’í cemetery of Mashghará.
These few sketchy glimpses, taken as a whole, weave an Arabian-
Persian spiritual thread, arising from the desert of Arabia, flowering
in Persia, mystically unfolding across more than a century of Bahá’í
history, linking Shaykh Ahmad Ahsá’í, by the steadfastness of Mullá
Alíy-i-Bastámí, through the descendants of Mu˙ammad Shibl to a
golden trowel in the hand of Dr. Zia Baghdadi laying the foundation
stone of the Mother Temple of the West at the feet of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá. This thread shines with the brightness of emancipation as it
touches on the impact of ˇahirih addressing an audience without a
veil in the home of Mu˙ammad Shibl. And finally, it also links
Shaykh Ahmad to the formation of a Bahá’í community in Lebanon.
Clearly far more remains to be uncovered that will acknowledge not
only the contribution of early Arab believers to the growth of the
Faith, but the fruits of the cooperation between Arab and Persian
believers.
Bahá’u’lláh - Milestones In Arab Lands
Significant Dates
Bahá’u’lláh was born in Iran to a noble Persian family with long
Persian ancestry27. However, during the whole period of His
Ministry, He was an exile and a prisoner in the Ottoman Empire.
These are some significant dates:
1817-1892  75 years. Lifetime of Bahá’u’lláh
1853-189228 39 years. The whole period of the Ministry on
Bahá’u’lláh was outside Iran, in the Ottoman
Empire (GPB 85)
1853-1863 10 years in Iraq, 8 of them among the predominantly
Arabic speaking population of Baghdad29, and two
of them among the Kurds30 in Sulaymányyih
1863-1868 5 years in Istanbul-Adrianople

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

1868-1892 24 years among the predominantly Arab population
of Palestine
Bahá’u’lláh spent the longest period of His Ministry in the Arabic
speaking territories of the Ottoman Empire.
The Declaration of Bahá’u’lláh - Location, First
Tablet and Its Language.
On a Wednesday afternoon, April 22, 1863, in Baghdad, an
ancient city of Arabic culture and history, when “The muezzin had
just raised the afternoon call to prayer, . . . Bahá'u'lláh entered the
Najibiyyih Garden, where He tarried twelve days before His final
departure from the city.” (GPB 148-52) “That historic day,” Shoghi
Effendi informs us, is “forever after designated as the first day of
the Ridvan Festival.” About the significance of this occasion he
writes,
The arrival of Bahá'u'lláh in the Najibiyyih Garden,
subsequently designated by His followers the Garden of
Ridvan, signalizes the commencement of what has come to
be recognized as the holiest and most significant of all
Bahá'í
festivals,
the
festival
commemorating
the
Declaration of His Mission to His companions.
Furthermore Shoghi Effendi adds: “Of the exact circumstances
attending that epoch-making Declaration we, alas, are but scantily
informed.” He goes on to inform us that, “The ‘Suriy-i-Sabr’ (Surih
of Patience) (was) revealed on the first day of Ridvan.” The Suriy-i-
Sabr is in Arabic.
Bahá’u’lláh and the Arabic Language
The greater part of the revelation of Bahá’u’lláh is in the Arabic
Language. The introduction to the Arabic edition of the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas highlights certain implications related to choice of language
(provisional translation):
The Kitáb-i-Aqdas was revealed completely in the Arabic
language. The reader will not miss the implication of the
choice of Bahá’u’lláh for Arabic to be the Language of the
Obligatory Prayers, the language of the Mother Book of
His Revelation, the language through which He set forth
the foundations of the forthcoming world civilization,
even though it was not the language of His people . . .
Furthermore, He expressed a preference for the choice of
Arabic as a world language to be spoken by all mankind. 31
In the introduction to the English edition of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, we
are told that:

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

Bahá’u’lláh enjoyed a superb mastery of Arabic, and
preferred to use it in those Tablets and other Writings
where its precision of meaning was particularly appropriate
to the exposition of basic principle. Beyond the choice of
language itself, however, the style employed is of an
exalted and emotive character, immensely compelling,
particularly to those familiar with the great literary
tradition out of which it arose. (KA intro, p. 10)
Bahá’u’lláh expressed His preference for the Arabic language by
writing (provisional translation):
That which is preferable to the Throne is that the entire
world speaks the Arabic language because it is the greatest
of all languages in its expansiveness. If the people were to
inform themselves about the expanse of this language, they
would undoubtedly select it. Although the Farsi language is
very sweet, it does not have the expanse of the Arabic
language. All languages in the world are limited in
comparison with the Arabic Language. This is its
distinction and the reason we have mentioned it.32
Bahá’u’lláh — “This Arabian Youth”
In several Tablets, Bahá’u’lláh refers to Himself as “ . . . this
Arabian Youth”. For example in a Tablet known as Súrih Al-Damm,
addressed to “Mu˙ammad”33, (this is a reference to the famous
chronicler and poet34, Nabil-i-Zarandi, author of the Dawn
Breakers), Bahá’u’lláh writes, (provisional translation):
Go to Ismulláh-Há, and inform him what the Spirit of God
hath revealed unto thee . . . Say O servant, We have revealed
for thee Tablets and Epistles unknown to anyone except
God. In them is that which will enable thee to be
independent of all that was created in the realm of
creation, and all that is in the heavens and the earth. But
We did not send them to thee because We did not inhale
from thee the fragrance of Those on High wafting from
this Arabian Youth.35
A testimony of Bahá’u’lláh concerning Arabs in
Baghdad
In a Tablet addressed to Hadrat Afnan Jinab-i- Aqa Mírzá Aqa36
Bahá’u’lláh outlines several instances that highlight the level of
affection, love and respect that the population of Baghdad,
including prominent Sunni Arabs, had for Him before he left. He
wrote that when He was in Baghdad, all people including the ‘ulamá,
the ‘urfá (those with mystic knowledge), and others in Baghdad and

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

within its environs all the way to Basra, openly expressed the utmost
humility and submission towards him.
Bahá’u’lláh said that one day Jinab-e-Siyyed Daoud37, the mufti
of Basra, attained the honor of coming into His presence with a
group of others among them the famous Ibn-Alusi.38 They sat
outside until they received permission to come into His presence.
The Mufti told those present that the reputation of Hadrat-e-Ishan39
(a respectful reference to Bahá’u’lláh) has spread far and wide in
those regions “To the extent,” The mufti said, “that I do not think
They40 are aware how far it has gone”.
Bahá’u’lláh wrote that the Cause had reached such a station (of
respect and prominence) that whenever He would leave the house,
Arabs who saw Him would utter words (of praise) that surpassed
their description of their own leaders.
After enumerating several such instances, Bahá’u’lláh continues
His account by referring to the highly emotional time of His
departure when “crowds upon crowds of people came from the city,
including the ‘Ulama and others. All said they were confident that
He would always remain with them . . . but now suddenly He was
leaving . . . The Arabs, like the clouds of Spring, were crying and
lamenting”. (GPB 34)
Bahá’u’lláh further describes, in His Tablet to the Afnán, the
relationship He had with all types of people.
During the period of my stay in Iraq, the Ulama, the Urafa
and the common people of all religious denominations
would come to us and We would answer whatever question
they asked.
Surat Al-A‘ráb41 — A Tablet from Bahá’u’lláh to the
Arabs
In this momentous Tablet, Surat Al-A‘ráb, addressed by
Bahá’u’lláh to the Arabs, He identifies those He is addressing by
certain criteria, calls upon them to adhere to specific injunctions,
guides them to thank God for certain reasons, exhorts them to
steadfastness as He warns them about severe tests, explains why God
chose them for Himself, informs them why they should “take pride
upon all the peoples of the Earth”, and admonishes them to acquire
a number of divine attributes. Towards the end He warns them of
dangers facing them, and describes His sufferings. Several times
throughout the Tablet, which is about 6 pages in the Arabic script,
He addresses them in such in words as, “O My Arabs!”, “O friends
of God from the Arabs”, “O Pen of the Ancient, remind Our friends
from the Arabs, whom God has chosen for Thyself . . . ”.

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

Significantly, Bahá’u’lláh follows every major statement He
makes with an explanation of its purpose and/or provides the
reasons for which He made it. It is also to be noted that the
expressions of loftiness and praise Bahá’u’lláh lavishes on the Arabs
in a sequence of phrases (here broken up into separate paragraphs),
are then tempered by conditions they need to fulfill and by his
expectation of them to acquire specific spiritual attributes. The
following provisionally translated passages constitute the first two
and a half pages of the Tablet, followed by a summary of the
remaining three pages. Subtitles and comments have been added,
and the text has been arranged and occasionally itemized for
emphasis.
Opening Words:
In the opening words of the Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh announces that it
is addressed to the Arabs.
This is Súrih A‘ráb (the Súrih of the Arabs) which hath
been revealed from the Ancient Revealer.
Criteria defining the Arabs addressed by Bahá’u’lláh
The source of the Tablet is mentioned in the following verses
which also makes it clear that Bahá’u’lláh is addressing Arabs who
have fulfilled certain criteria.
These are the verses of God revealed in truth from the
Heaven of Glory. He hath made them to be a proof from
Himself for all the world, and in them He mentions those
who
• knew God in Himself and
• were not veiled by the barking of those who seek
partnership with God
• who entered beneath the shade of his care and
• resided in proximity to His mercy.
• Those are them upon whom the Concourse on High and
the Angels of Nearness pray.
• They are the ones who, when the Sun of Eternity shone
upon them another time, prostrated themselves before
God the Almighty the Omnipotent.
Calling the Arabs to Embrace His Cause:
Having identified the recipients of Súrih A‘ráb, Bahá’u’lláh calls
upon them to embrace His Cause in a series of injunctions starting

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

with Words such as: “Listen to the call of God . . . make haste to the
Tree of God . . . Seek ye shelter in Its shade . . . Turn ye unto It” and
“nourish yourselves from Its fruits”. He Wrote:
O friends of God from the Arabs
• Listen to the call of God from this Tree that arose in
truth, which every one of Its leaves declares upon all
things, ‘Verily I am God, no God is there but Him the
Most Holy, the Precious the Kind.’
• O people, make haste to the Tree of God
• Seek ye shelter in Its shade. By God, were ye to search the
heavens and the earth ye wouldst not find safety except
under the shade of this Tree that has arisen above
mankind and from which wafts the gentle breeze that
infuses life into every smoldering bone.
• Turn ye unto It and
• Nourish yourselves from Its fruits that your hearts may be
purified from the signs of every notorious beguiler.
Reasons for thanking God
Calling upon the Arabs to thank God, Bahá’u’lláh lists a number
of reasons for doing so.
Thank ye God for
• having protected you from the wilderness of self and
passion,
• and saved you from the vain imaginings and blindness in
the Day whence God brought the Kingdom of His might
upon all who are in heavens and on earth,
• and made Himself known unto you
• and revealed to you His beauty
• and spoke with you visibly as witnessed
• and made you of His servants who have knowledge.
A Warning and Call to Steadfastness
Bahá’u’lláh warns His Arab friends that a grave danger is already
facing them, and exhorts them to be steadfast.
Be ye steadfast in this Cause because Satan hath appeared
with his soldiers and orders you in every instance to deny
God Who created you and made you of the victorious.

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

A Profound Pronouncement
Bahá’u’lláh then makes a profound pronouncement to the Arabs
which has overtones reverberating throughout religious history.
“God,” He says, has “chosen you for Himself”, and follows up
immediately with reasons in support of this pronouncement.
Praise God for having chosen you for Himself, whereas
• when the Ancient Sun set upon Its land, It rose from the
horizon of Iraq — your land42 — this is naught but of His
Grace upon you with which nothing in the heavens or
upon the Earth can compare
• and the Face of God was shining brightly amongst you
without a veil
• reciting upon you the verses of God for many months and
years
• and the Ancient Beauty walked amongst you with the
reverence and dignity of God
• revealing Himself upon you yet another time
• thus fulfilling the grace of God upon you that ye may be
of those who are thankful.
Consequences of the Pronouncement
Emphasizing the significance of His pronouncement, Bahá’u’lláh
then instructs the Arabs to take pride upon all the tribes of the
world and explains why they should do so.
It behooveth you to take pride upon all the tribes of the
world inasmuch as none other than you have attained what
ye have attained, if ye be of them who have knowledge.
Spiritual attributes
If we were to stop perusing Surat Al-A‘ráb at this point, we
might misunderstand the essence of the message of Bahá’u’lláh to
the Arabs. All that has come before can only be correctly understood
in terms of the Arabs arising to scale the spiritual pinnacles to which
Bahá’u’lláh has set before them. That is, He has clearly held out a
glorious station for the Arabs, but they can only achieve it by
fulfilling the following conditions:
Therefore it behooveth you to
• acquire the manners of God

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

• that from your hearts holy fragrances will burst upon all
beings
• and from you the signs of the All-merciful God will
appear.
• As God has chosen you from amongst his people,
• make ye an effort that from you may appear that which
hath not appeared from others, that your being chosen by
God will be proved amongst the people of the world.
• Be ye as the stars amongst the people of the world that
through you those who have been veiled from the
knowledge of God, and are of the ignorant, may be
guided.
• Be ye trustworthy to yourselves and to the people, and
their money, verily this is an attribute beloved by God
before the creation of Adam from water and clay.
• But if you are not the trustworthy ones on earth, you will
not trust your own selves neither will the people trust
you, thus hath God advised you in the tongue of His
Manifestation as an injunction for you and for all his
creation.
• Purify your hearts from envy and hatred, and yourselves
from inequity and mundane desires
• Obey ye the commandments of God verily He hath not
commanded His servants except that which is better for
them than the treasures of heavens and earth
• Beware lest ye contend about anything created on earth
with anyone. Leave it to its people that your souls may
find peace and ye be entirely devoted to the face of your
Lord the Almighty the Great.
In the remainder of the Tablet Bahá’u’lláh repeatedly addresses
His audience in such terms as, “O People . . . O My Arabs”
emphasizing some of the points already mentioned. He reiterates
themes covered in other Tablets such as God entrusts the world to
kings and wants only the hearts of His loved ones. (TB 220) He calls
upon His “friends from the Arabs”:
O people, imbue yourselves with the attributes of God and
shun the attributes of those who enjoin partnership with
Him. God commands you to be chaste and pure. Hold unto
the religion of God and do not commit inequity and vice.
Be ye of those from whose faces the light of God is
revealed, and from whose actions the signs of God and His

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

Dignity appear. Thus it beseemeth you to behave, O people
of Bahá, in these days of great tribulation. . . .
Dwelling upon His sorrows, Bahá’u’lláh provides a graphic
description of their effect upon His Body.
O my Arabs! If you were to behold Me you would not
know Me. From repeated tribulations My Hair has waxed
white from Its black essence. From the onrush of adversity
the ‘Alef’43 of this Cause has appeared in the shape of
‘Dal’44, and this Radiant Rosy Face has yellowed.
In closing this Tablet, Bahá’u’lláh calls upon the Arabs not to
forget Him and laments the tribulations brought upon Him by the
animosity of His half brother.
Thus it can be seen in general that Bahá’u’lláh declared His
mission and established the holiest and most significant of all Bahá'í
festivals in Baghdad an Arab territory of the Ottoman Empire, that
the first Tablet He revealed on the first day of that momentous
occasion was in Arabic, that He spent most of His Ministry in Arabic
speaking territories of the Ottoman Empire, that the largest body of
His Writings was in Arabic.
People of Arabic culture need to be invited to reflect on the
implications of the fact that “the language through which He
(Bahá’u’lláh) set forth the foundations of the forthcoming world
civilization”, was Arabic, and of His statement that “If the people
were to inform themselves about the expanse of this language, they
would undoubtedly select it.” Moreover Bahá’u’lláh’s reference to
Himself as This Arabian Youth could have several meanings, one of
them would undoubtedly be His high respect and affinity with the
Arab heritage.
All these facts combined with His own warm recollections of the
times He spent with Arabs in Iraq, the tender praiseworthy tone with
which He addressed them, and the expectations He has of them, are
bound to enkindle an understanding of a deep spiritual connection,
far more significant than cordial closeness, between Bahá’u’lláh and
the Arabs.
Closing Remarks
This paper makes a preliminary attempt to correct a distorted
view about an unfounded divide between the Bahá’í Faith and
people of Arab heritage. By focusing on matters of identity,
contributions of early Arab believers, milestones of interaction
between Bahá’u’lláh with Arabs, and a Tablet to the Arabs, it seeks

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

to demonstrate not only the absence of any boundaries between the
Faith and Arabs, but an intermingling of a considerable magnitude.
The need for further research covering the whole period of the
Ministries of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá cannot be over
emphasized. Its aim will be to uncover a comprehensive picture of
interactions between the Faith and Arabs. Such a picture, will
undoubtedly contribute towards mitigating their misgivings about
the Faith, and will lay foundations for a greater respect and a sense
of closeness towards the Founder and His Mission. However, in
keeping with the concept of the changeless faith of God touched
upon in the Introduction, such research needs to be seen in at least
three levels.
At one level, Arabs with penetrating insight into the implication
of these milestones, will realize that they have been called to a
privileged destiny in shouldering the world-wide responsibilities of
the Bahá’í Faith.
At a higher level, Arabs and Persians may wish to reflect on their
common destiny in view of certain statements by Bahá’u’lláh, such
as those in the following quotation from a Tablet addressed to
Zaynu’l-Muqarribín, where He states:
Convey greetings on behalf of God upon the faces of
those Arabs and Persians who lived around His House, that
they may rejoice in the glad tidings of the All-Merciful and
be of those who are steadfast. Say, O friends, thank God
for having enabled you to meet Him, and brought you nigh
unto Himself, and informed you of that from which most
of His servants remained veiled, and destined for you that
which cannot be known by all of creation.45
As a footnote to the grand panorama of history, is there any
mystical significance in the fact that the first Persian believer46 to
suffer for his Faith did so on Arab land, and the first Arab believer47
to suffer for his Faith was martyred on Persian soil?
At the third and highest level, which is the essence of the true
spirit of the Faith, every believer, no matter what privilege his
culture may have received in the Bahá’í Writings, realizes that a
prime objective in Bahá’í life is to unequivocally demonstrate the
truth of the injunction of Bahá’u’lláh, “Ye are all fruits of one tree,
the leaves of one branch, the flowers of one garden.”48

NOTES
1 The definition of the word “Arab” is not universally agreed upon. By
and large the general connotation of the word “Arab” implies being

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh


a Moslem. As such, some people from Arab countries who are not
Moslems take issue when being identified as Arabs. However, In
current political usage, accommodation has been made in the
definition of “Arab” by focusing on language culture and history.
Thus Lebanon, having a Christian President, and a considerable
Christian population, is considered an Arab country. For the
purpose of this paper, all references to the word “Arab” are
intended primarily to refer to Arab Moslems.
2 A Report by ESCWA entitled “Aging In The Arab Countries: Regional
Variations, Policies And Programs” has the following citation: “At a
regional level, the population rose from 76.5 million in 1950 to
284.4 million in 2000.” http://www.escwa.org.lb/information/
publications/sdd/docs/04-wg-1-2.pdf
3 With very few exceptions, Bahá’í literature is not available in
bookstores and libraries in Arab lands. Media presentations have
been negatively biased. Over a period of 24 months, July 2003 to
July 2005, the number of Arabic websites carrying misconceptions
about the Bahá’í Faith grew tenfold, from about 700 to over 7000.
That is more than 260 new sites a month. However, faint
glimmerings of change have begun to appear in few media outlets.
4 On July 1, 2005, Dr. Nabil Mustafa of the Bahá’í community of
England, was invited by Al-Arabíyya to give an interview which was
published on their website.
5 A comprehensive scholarly work in English is Moojan Momen’s Islam
and the Bahá’í Faith, George Ronald, Oxford, 2000. Another good
book, brief
and to
the
point,
is
Bahá’u’lláh, The Great
Announcement of the Qur’án by Mu˙ammad Mustafá, Translated by
Rowshan Mustafá, BPT, Dhaka, Bangladesh (circa 1993).
6 A number of verses in the Qur’an emphasize the fact that it was
revealed in Arabic, for example Sura 12, Yusuf v. 2. In The
Emergence of Arab Nationalism N. Zeine wrote. “Islam was revealed
by an Arabian Prophet, in the Arabic language, in Arabia. We read in
the Qur’án: ‘A Messenger has now come to you from among
yourselves . . . ’ (sura 3, Al-‘Imran, v 106). There is a tradition that the
Prophet said one day: “I am an Arab, the Qur’án is in Arabic, and the
language of the denizens of Paradise is Arabic”. (Caravan Books,
Delmar, New York. Third Edition 1973. p 130, 132-133).
7 The Bible, Mat. 24:35 “Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words
shall not pass away.” The Qur'an (Yusuf Ali) tr, Surah 3) “The
Religion before Alláh is Islam (submission to His will)”
8 The nurturing Hand of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá guided the Persian Bahá’ís
towards “the emergence of a culture . . . unlike anything humanity had
ever known”. This new culture distinguished itself by, “taking into
its own hands the responsibility for deciding its collective affairs
through consultative action,” and expressed its “spiritual energies” in
“the practical affairs of day-to-day life,” such as establishing “Bahá’í
schools . . . ” and, “ clinics and other medical facilities . . . ”, as well as “a

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven


network of couriers reaching across the land”, effectively, “the
rudiments of a postal service” . . . (See Century of Light commissioned
by the Universal House of Justice, The Bahá’í Publishing Trust, New
Delhi, India, April 2001, pp 10-11). Despite continuous intermittent
atrocities, the Persian Bahá’ís went on developing such basic
indicators of community identity comprising social, organizational,
and practical aspects, up to the present.
9 The period to be researched should at least cover the whole of the
Ministries of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Who had considerable
interaction with a number of prominent Arabs in Ottoman
territories, mainly Palestine, Beirut and Egypt.
10 Bahá’u’lláh, Athar-i-Qalam-e-Aala, vol 4, Mo’assayieh Milli Matbouaat
Amri, p. 215-220
11 Shoghi Effendi, The Dawn-Breakers, (Ocean) p. 2
12 H.M. Balyuzi, The Báb - The Herald of the Day of Days, p. xv
13 “Bereft of all earthly possessions, and detached from all save God, he,
in the early days of the thirteenth century of the Hegira, when forty
years of age, arose to dedicate the remaining days of his life to the
task he felt impelled to shoulder. He first proceeded to Najaf and
Karbila,” Shoghi Effendi, The Dawn-Breakers, (Ocean) p. 2
14 Imam Óusayn was the son of Fatimih, the daughter of the Prophet,
and 'Ali, His nephew.
15 Balyuzi, The Báb, p. 32
16 Quoted from the Tablet of the Báb to from 2 , unpublished.
17 Mullá Óusayn sent a letter to the Báb in which he reported on the
mission He had sent him and referred to “Bahá'u'lláh's immediate
response to the Divine Message.” The letter, “cheered and gladdened
the Báb, and reinforced His confidence in the ultimate victory of
His Cause. He felt assured that if now He were to fall suddenly a
victim to the tyranny of His foes and depart from this world, the
Cause which He had revealed would live; would, under the direction
of Bahá'u'lláh, continue to develop and flourish, and would yield
eventually its choicest fruit . . . The letter of Mullá Óusayn decided
the Báb to undertake His contemplated pilgrimage to Hijaz”.
(Shoghi Effendi, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 128)
18 H. M. Balyuzi, Eminent Bahá'ís in the Time of Bahá'u'lláh, (Ocean)
page 270
19 Transliterated from the Paper of Dr. Kamran Ekbal, “Murouri Bar
Alvah Hadrat Bahá’u’lláh Khitáb beh Mu˙ammad Mustafa Baghdadi”,
SAFINE-YE IRFAN . . .
20 Email from "Dr. Kamran Ekbal" Kamran_Ekbal@web.de, 14 June 2005
21 Balyuzi, Eminent Bahá'ís, p. 270
22 Transliterated from the paper of Dr. Kamran Ekbal, SAFINE-YE
IRFAN . . .

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh


23 The transformation and reformation of the Bábí community in
Baghdad, by Bahá’u’lláh after His return from Sulaymányyih, is
graphically described by Shoghi Effendi (GPB,127-150). That ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá should attribute to Mu˙ammad Mustafa Baghdadi the quality
“leader among the friends in Iraq” is worth contemplating with
respect to the contribution of an early Arab believer to the Faith.
24 Balyuzi, The Báb, p. 232
25 H.M. Balyuzi, Abdu'l-Bahá - The Centre of the Covenant, p. 417
26 Lebanon, as we know it today, did not exist at that time. The whole
area was part of the Ottoman Empire.
27 “Mírzá Abu'l-Fadl asserts in his writings that the genealogy of
Bahá'u'lláh can be traced back to the ancient Prophets of Persia as
well as to its kings who ruled over the land prior to the Arab
invasion.” (Shoghi Effendi, The Dawn-Breakers, p 13)
28 Shortly after the Divine intimations experienced by Bahá’u’lláh in the
prison of Siyah Chal, He was released. One month later He set off
to Iraq with some members of his family arriving in Baghdad on
January 12, 1853. See GPB 107.
29 While in Baghdad Bahá’u’lláh associated with peoples of four
different language cultures and three different religions, i:e “Within
a few years after Bahá'u'lláh's return from Sulaymaniyyih the
situation had been completely reversed. The house of Sulayman-i-
Ghannam, on which the official designation of the Bayt-i-Azam (the
Most Great House) was later conferred, known, at that time, as the
house of Mírzá Musa, the Bábí, an extremely modest residence,
situated in the Karkh quarter, in the neighborhood of the western
bank of the river, to which Bahá'u'lláh's family had moved prior to
His return from Kurdistan, had now become the focal center of a
great number of seekers, visitors and pilgrims, including Kurds,
Persians, Arabs and Turks, and derived from the Muslim, the Jewish
and Christian Faiths.” (GPB 129)
30 The Kurds have their own Kurdish language and they also speak
Arabic. The Qasídiy-i-‘Izz-i-Varqá’iyyih, revealed by Bahá’u’lláh in
Sulaymányyih at the request of His Kurdish hosts, is in Arabic. See
Athar-i-Qalam-i-A’ala, p. 196
31 Provisional translation from the Arabic edition in of the Most Holy
Book, Al-Kitáb Al-Aqdas, prepared by a special committee,
Published by the Universal House of Justice, ISBN-0-99967-132-6,
printed in Canada by Quebecor Jasper Printing, (no date).
32 Provisional translation of the Arabic text which is quoted in
“Muntakhabat Min Kitáb Bahá’u’lláh Wal ‘Asr Al-Jadid”, J.
Esslemont, 1995 ed. p. 222
33 Ishraq Khavari, Kanj-i-Shayegan, Mo’assayieh Milli Matbouaat Amri,
124 Badí´, p. 204
34 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, (Ocean) p. 381)

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven


35 Bahá’u’lláh, Athar-i-Qalam-e-Aala, vol 4, Mo’assayieh Milli Matbouaat
Amri, p 66
36 Bahá’u’lláh, Athar-i-Qalam-e-Aala, vol 6, Mo’assayieh Milli Matbouaat
Amri, p 86. The Tablet is about 34 pages.
37 Siyyid Dawudi is probably Siyyid Dawudi an-Naqshbandi al-Khalidi,
who was one of the 'ulama and a shaykh of the Khalidiya section of
the Sufi Naqshbandi order. He died in 1882. (H.M. Balyuzi,
Bahá'u’lláh - The King of Glory, p. 124)
38 Ibn-Alusi - one of the five sons of the famous Shaykh Mahmud al-
Alusi, who died in 1854. It is not clear which son is referred to here,
but he is probably one of the three eldest, 'Abdu’lláh, Bahá'u'd-Din,
'Abdu'l-Baqi and Siyyid Na'man, Khayru'd-Din. (H.M. Balyuzi,
Bahá’u’lláh - The King of Glory, p. 124)
39 a respectful reference to Bahá’u’lláh
40 As a sign of respect, Bahá’u’lláh is addressed in the plural.
41 Bahá’u’lláh, Athar-i-Qalam-e-Aala, vol 4, Mo’assayieh Milli Matbouaat
Amri, p. 215-220 p. The text in italics below is a provisional
translation. The author is aware that certain parts of this Tablet
have a formal translation, but it was not available at the time of
preparing this paper. “A‘ráb” is the plural of “arab.”
42 Note that Bahá’u’lláh is here identifying Iraq to be the Land of the
Arabs.
43 “Alef”, the first letter of the Arabic alphabet resembles a straight
vertical line.
44 ‘Dal’, another letter of the Arabic alphabet, appears like a bent over
‘alef’.
45 Unpublished Tablet number 06136 at the Bahá’í World Archives.
46 “Mullá Alíy-i-Bastámí, though the first to fall a victim to the
relentless hate of the enemy, underwent his persecution in Iraq,
which lay beyond the confines of Persia.” (Shoghi Effendi, The
Dawn-Breakers, p. 146)
47 “Among the men who in Karbila eagerly embraced, through the
efforts of ˇahirih, the Cause of the Báb, was a certain Shaykh Salih,
an Arab resident of that city who was the first to shed his blood in
the path of the Faith, in Tihran. She was so profuse in her praise of
Shaykh Salih that a few suspected him of being equal in rank to
Quddus.” (Shoghi Effendi, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 270) (The author
wishes to express his gratitude to Dr. Moojan Momen for pointing
this out.)
48 Dr. J.E. Esslemont, Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, (Ocean), p. 209

The Báb and Bahá’u’lláh

Appendices
Appendix I
Bibliography of the Bahá’í Writings and
Their abbreviations used in this book*
ABL
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London, Commemorative ed. London, UK:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1987
ADJ
Shoghi Effendi. Advent of Divine Justice, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990
ADP
Abdu’l-Bahá. Abdu’l-Bahá on Divine Philosophy. Comp. Elizabeth Fraser
Chamberlain. Boston, MA: Tudor Press, 1918
BP
compilation. Bahá’í Prayers.
BW
World Centre Publications. Bahá’í World, The, volumes I (1925) through
XX (1986-92); new series 1993-2004. Haifa, Israel: World Centre
Publications, 1925-2004
BWF
compilation. Bahá'í World Faith. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
CUHJ
The Constitution of The Universal House of Justice. Haifa: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1972.
CC
Compilation of Compilations volumes I-3. World Centre Publications /
Bahá’í Publications Australia. Vol. 1-2: 1991; Vol. 3: 1993.
ESW
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, 1st
pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988
FWU
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Foundations of World Unity. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust, 1979
GPB
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust
GWB
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi. Gleanings from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983
HW
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Marzieh Gail. Hidden Words. Numerous editions.
KA
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi and the Bahá’í World Centre. Kitáb-i-
Aqdas, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
KI
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi. Kitáb-i-ˆqán, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette,
IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1983
KJV
King James Version, The Bible. Numerous editions.
LG
compilation. Lights of Guidance. India: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
MUHJ63 Universal House of Justice, comp. Geoffry W. Marks. Messages from the
Universal House of Justice 1963-86: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1996
OCF
Bahá’u’lláh, comp. Research Department of the UHJ. One Common Faith.
Bahá’í World Centre, 2005.
PM
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Shoghi Effendi. Prayers and Meditations, 1st pocket ed.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1987
PT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks. Ontario: Nine Pines Publishing.
PUP
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Promulgation of Universal Peace, 2nd ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í

Appendices


Publishing Trust, 1982
Q
Qur'án. Numerous editions.
SAQ
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, comp. and trans. Laura Clifford Barney. Some Answered
Questions, 1st pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
SDC
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, trans. Marzieh Gail. Secret of Divine Civilization, 1st pocket
ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1990
SLH
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. World Centre Publications. Summons of the Lord of
Hosts. Australia: Bahá’í Publications Australia,
SV
Bahá’u’lláh, trans. Marzieh Gail. Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys, 4th ed.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991
SWAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette, IL:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust
SWB
Báb, The. Selections from the Writings of the Báb. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust
TAB
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablets of Abdul-Bahá Abbas, volumes 1-3
TAF
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Tablet to Auguste Forel.
TB
Bahá’u’lláh, comp. Research Department of the UHJ, trans. Habib
Taherzadeh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, 1st
pocket ed. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1988
TN
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Traveller’s Narrative, A. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust
WT
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, 1994.
WOB
Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh: Selected Letters, 1st pocket ed.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1991
* No formal list of abbreviations exists, but semi-formal lists can be derived from
abbreviations used by the Bahá’í World Centre. First, a partial list is in
Messages from the Universal House of Justice 1963-86. Second, the BWC
downloads
site
has
a
list
of
their
filename
abbreviations
at
http://library.bahai.org/README/README-TREE.htm. Those two have
been combined. See more at http://bahai-library.com/?file=abbreviations

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Appendix II
Contents of Lights of ‘Irfán Books One-Six
Lights of ‘Irfán Book One, © 2000

-i-Aqdas as Described and Glorified by Shoghi Effendi
Cyrus Alai
The Seven Valleys of Bahá’u’lláh and Farid ud-Din Attar
Sheila Banani
Common Teachings in Chinese Culture and the Bahá’í Faith: From
Material Civilization to Spiritual Civilization
Albert K. Cheung
The Bedrock of Bahá’í Belief: The Doctrine of Progressive
Revelation
Zaid Lundberg
The New Age Phenomenon and the Bahá’í Faith
Zaid Lundberg
A Study of the Meaning of the Word “Al-Amr” in the Qur’án and
in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh
Moojan Momen
The Book of Revelation Revealed in Glory: A Summary of Glorious
Revelation
William Ridgers
The Development of Humankind
Julio Savi
The Concept of Sacred Justice in Hebrew Eschatology
Gary Selchert
Some Chronological Issues in the Law˙-i-Óikmat of Bahá’u’lláh
Peter Terry
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Explanation of the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh: Tablets
and Talks Translated into English (1911-1920)
Peter Terry

Appendices


Lights of ‘Irfán Book Two, © 2001
“Point” and “Letter” in the Writings of the Báb
Mu˙ammad Afnan
Perception into Faith: A Radical Discontinuity within Unity
William Barnes
An Introduction to the Súratu’l-Haykal (Discourse of The Temple)
Mohamad Ghasem Bayat
The Firm Cord of Servitude
Theo Cope
The Human Intellect: A Bahá’í-inspired Perspective
Adrian John Davis
The Perfect Man and the Manifestation of God
Y.A. Ioannesyan
The Mystic Cup: The Essential Mystical Nature of the Bahá’í Faith
LeRoy Jones
A Short Poem by “Darvísh” Mu˙ammad, Bahá’u’lláh: “Sáqí az
ghayb-i-baqá’ burqa’ bar afkan az ‘idhár”: An Introduction and
Three Versions of Provisional English Translations
Franklin D. Lewis
The Tablet of Unity (Law˙-i-Itti˙ád) — A Provisional Translation
Moojan Momen
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Commentary on the Quránic Verses Concerning the
Overthrow of the Byzantines: The Stages of the Soul
Moojan Momen
“What I Want to Say is Wordless”: Mystical Language, Revelation
and Scholarship
Ismael Velasco
Keys to the Proper Understanding of Islam in The Dispensation of
Bahá’u’lláh
Brian A. Wittman

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Three, © 2002
A Journey through the Seven Valleys
Ghasem Bayat
The beginning that has no beginning: Bahá’í Cosmology
Vahid Brown
Knowledge, Certitude and the Mystical Heart: The Hidden Essence
of God’s Word
LeRoy Jones
The Báb’s Epistle on the Spiritual Journey towards God
Todd Lawson
From Adam to Bahá’u’lláh: The Idea of a Chain of Prophecy
Zaid Lundberg
The Wronged One: Shí’í Narrative Structure in Bahá’u’lláh’s Tablet
of Visitation for Mullá Óusayn
William McCants
The Mystical Dimensions of the Bahá’í Administrative Order
Kavian Milani
Mysticism and the Bahá’í Community
Moojan Momen
The Law˙-i-Mánikjí Íá˙ib: introduction and provisional translation
Ramin Neshati
The Seven Valleys and the Scientific Method
Robert Sarracino
Theological Responses to Modernity in the 19th-century Middle
East
Oliver Scharbrodt
Mysticism in African Traditional Religion and in the Bahá’í Faith:
Classification of Concepts and Practices
Enoch Tanyi
An Exposition on the Fire Tablet by Bahá’u’lláh
James Thomas
The Influence of Bábí Teachings on Ling Ming Tang and 19th-
century China
Jianping Wang

Appendices


Lights of ‘Irfán Book Four, © 2003
An Epistle of Sayyid ‘Alí Mu˙ammad ‘the Báb’ to Sultan
Abdulmecid
Necati Alkan
“Thee” and “thee” in the translation of the Súrih of the Temple
(Súriy-i-Haykal)
Khazeh Fananapazir
The Aristotelian Substratum of the Bahá’í Writings
Ian Kluge
The Call into Being: Introduction to a Bahá’í Existentialism
Ian Kluge
The Tablet to Hardegg (Law˙-i-Hirtík): A Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh to
the Templer Leader Georg David Hardegg
Stephen Lambden
The Tablet of the Bell (Law˙-i-Náqúsí) of Bahá’u’lláh
Stephen Lambden
The ‘Akká Traditions in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf
Moojan Momen
The Tablet of Maqsúd (Law˙-i-Maqsúd): Guidance on Human
Nature and Leadership
Ramin Neshati
Inmates of the Celestial Pavilion
Research department of the Bahá’í World Centre
Letters of the Quranic Dispensation
Research Department of the Bahá’í World Centre
The Uses of Genealogy and Genealogical Information in Select
Persianate and Bábí/Bahá’í Sources: A Preliminary Survey
Sholeh A. Quinn
An Exposition of the Tablet of the World (Law˙-i-Dunya)
James B. Thomas
Bahá’u’lláh’s First Tablet to Napoleon III
Ismael Velasco

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Five, © 2004
Number of the Letters of the Living
Mu˙ammad Afnan
Images of Christ in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
Maryam Afshar
Letters to Bahá’í princesses: Tablets revealed in honour of the
women of Ibn-i Asdaq’s household
Dominic Parviz Brookshaw
Textual Resurrection: Book, Imám, and Cosmos in the Qur’án
Commentaries of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Chronicles of a Birth: Early References to the Bábí and Bahá’í
Religions in Spain (1850-1853)
Amín E. Egea
Unity and Progressive Revelation: Comparing Bahá’í Principles with
the Basic Concepts of Teilhard de Chardin
Wolfgang A Klebel
Process Philosophy and the Bahá’í Writings: An Initial Exploration
Ian Kluge
Kaleidoscope: Some Aspects of Angelology, Light, the Divine
Throne and Color Mysticism in Bábí and Bahá’í Scripture
Stephen Lambden
Karím Khán Kirmání and the Kitáb-i-ˆqán
Sholeh A. Quinn
Service, Joy and Sacrifice: An Essay on Commentaries by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá
James B. Thomas
The Manifestations of God and Their Function in Human History
Iscander Micael Tinto

Appendices


Lights of ‘Irfán Book Six, © 2005
The Life and Times of August Forel
Sheila Banani
Bahá’í Understanding of Reincarnation in Relation to the World’s
Faiths
Sateh Bayat and Vafa Bayat
Autobibliography in the Writings of the Báb
Vahid Brown
Models and Idols: Towards a Philosophy of the Community of Mind
Sháhbaz Fatheazam
True of Thyself: The Mystical Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and Ken
Wilber’s System of Integral Philosophy
Wolfgang A. Klebel
Bahá’í Ontology: An Initial Reconnaissance
by Ian Kluge
‘Abdu’l Bahá’s Tablet of the Two Calls: Civilizing Barbarity
Manooher Mofidi
SunWALK: A Bahá’í-inspired Model of Education
Roger Prentice
Interpretation and the Guardianship
Ian Semple
The Signs of Prophet-Hood: An Exposition on a Tablet by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá
James B. Thomas
Elucidations
Infallibility of the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice
A Commentary on the Conclusion on True Mysticism
Enoch Tanyi

Lights of ‘Irfán Book Seven

Appendix III
Publications of the ‘Irfán Colloquia
English-Language Publications

•
Scripture and Revelation, Moojan Momen (ed.), Oxford,
UK: George Ronald, 1997
•
The Bahá’í Faith and the World’s Religions, Moojan
Momen (ed.), Oxford, UK: George Ronald, 2005.
•
The Lights of ‘Irfán: Compilation of Papers Presented at
the ‘Irfán Colloquia, Iraj Ayman (general ed.), Book One,
2000; Book Two, 2001; Book Three, 2002; Book Four,
2003; Book Five, 2004; Book Six, 2005; Book Seven,
2006.
•
Occasional Papers volume 1: “Images of Christ in the
Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,” by Maryam Afshar.
Persian-Language Publications
Publications for sale:
•
Safini-yi ‘Irfán, Books I to X (Collections of the papers
presented at the ‘Irfán Colloquia in Persian)
Publications produced for and given to the participants of the ‘Irfán
Colloquia:
•
Mathnavyi Abha by F. Radmehr (A Commentary of the
Mathnavi of Bahá’u’lláh)
•
Ráhnamay-i Mutál’i-yi-Athár-i-Qalam-A’lá, Books I to IV
(Guidebooks for the Study of the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh)
•
Ráhnamay-i
Mutál’-yi-Athár-i
Hazrati-’Abdu’l-Bahá,
Books I to IV (Guidebook for the Study of the Writings
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá)
•
Basitu’l-Haqiqat (Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb and a
some explanatory articles on “Basitu’l Haqiqih”)
•
Tajjaliyyih
Barkhi
Jilvih-háy-i
Hayát-i
Bahá’í
dar
Zindigáni-yi Hazrat-i ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, by Flower Sámi
(Manifestations of Living a Bahá’í Life as Appears in the
Life of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: a Study in the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá)

Appendices



All ‘Irfán publications in English and Persian may be ordered from:
Bahá’í Distribution Service
4703 Fulton Industrial Blvd.
Atlanta, Georgia 30336-2017
U.S.A.
Tel: 404-472-9019
Fax: 404-472-0119
Email: bds@usbnc.org
Web: www.bahaibookstore.com
German-Language Publications
•
Beiträge des ‘Irfán-Kolloquiums 2003: ‘Irfán-Studien zum
Bahá’í-Schrifttum (Collections of the papers presented at
the ‘Irfán Colloquia in German). Hofheim, Germany:
Bahá’í-Verlag. Book I, 2004; Book II, 2005; Book III,
2006.
‘Irfán publications in German may be ordered from:
Bahá’í Verlag
Eppsteiner Strasse 89
65719
Hofheim, Germany
Tel: +49-(0)-6192-22921
Fax: +49-(0)-6192-22936
Email: info@bahai-verlag.de
Web: www.bahai-verlag.de