THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1995-03-14

dear b ahá’í f riends,

1995 and we have been asked to respond as follows.

The house of justice does not feel that you should be inhibited from

carrying out the functions specified for the National Spiritual Assembly at

the National convention through fear of being accused of electioneering.

Through the performance of these assigned functions to the best of your

ability, you will be able to find the appropriate balance between, on the one hand, an excessive prominence of the outgoing members, which could

arouse concerns among delegates, and, on other hand, such disengagement

from the convention consultation and from presentation of National As-

sembly concerns and plans that the delegates could feel deprived of an im-

portant component in their deliberations.

electioneering is principally a matter of attitude rather than of the extent

of exposure of a believer indulging in such a deplorable form of conduct. As

the believers grow in their powers of discernment, they can more accurately

come to their own private conclusions about any bahá’í who appears to be

seeking to put himself forth in a desire to be elected to an administrative po-

sition. it should also be understood that, at this stage in the development of

the bahá’í community, it is not unusual for Assembly members to be subject

to unwarranted accusations of electioneering from believers who may have a distorted impression of what a National Spiritual Assembly should do in the discharge of its functions; this should not cause you undue concern, and

should not detain you from conscientiously taking those actions which you

believe to be in the best interests of the cause.

you are no doubt familiar with the statement of the guardian, in refer-

ring to the duties of members of a National Spiritual Assembly, that195.4

196.1

196.2

196.3

196.4

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

20They should approach their task with extreme humility, and endeavor

by their open-mindedness, their high sense of justice and duty, their

candor, their modesty, their entire devotion to the welfare and in-

terests of the friends, the cause, and humanity, to win not only the

confidence and the genuine support and respect of those whom they should serve, but also their esteem and real affection.

196-1

The National convention is the only occasion at which believers from

distant areas, such as . . . to which you refer in your letter, can have infor-

mal fellowship with the members of both outgoing and incoming National

Spiritual Assemblies, and thus provides a unique opportunity to reassure them about the attitudes of their elected representatives and overcome the sense of separation to which you refer.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

197

Tenth Anniversary of Universidad Núr

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]