THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1994-05-17

To the youth gathered at the five regional baháí

barcelona, b erlin, b ucharest, Saint p etersburg, and w olverhampton

beloved f riends,

during this past year, with the encouragement of the european bahá’í

youth council, a new movement among this generation of bahá’í youth

has been gathering momentum throughout the continent. like the swelling

of a tide, some waves may be but wavelets as yet, but the time for such an upsurge is here. Surely the successive impulses of training seminars, of the conference of National bahá’í youth committees held in April, and now 181.12

182.1

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

8of these five continent-wide conferences, will reinforce the eagerness of the

youth to rise and seize the challenge to play their part in reshaping the life

of the peoples of the e uropean continent.

it is but a century and a half since two young men sat in an upper room

of the city of Shiraz; one the manifestation of god revealing the first words

of god for this era, the other his first disciple. within the space of six years,

both had laid down their lives so that this outpouring of divine r evelation

might quicken all humankind. by that time, hundreds and thousands of

eager hearts, men and women, old and young, rich and poor, learned and

illiterate, had arisen to welcome the breaking of the dawn of divine guid-

ance and champion the truth before the world.

Now we see that the world has become another world. As bahá’u’lláh

has written: “m ankind’s ordered life hath been revolutionized through the

agency of this unique, this wondrous System—the like of which mortal eyes have never witnessed.”

182-1

you have come together from lands which are troubled by many different

ills: ecological, economic, political, social, intellectual and, above all, moral

and spiritual. y ou are aware that some of your peers are desperately seeking

solutions and, too often alas, are driven to violent means to combat those

immediate evils which fill their vision. others turn aside, despairingly or

cynically from any thought that a remedy is possible. you know the solu-

tion, you have the vision, you have the guidance and you are the recipients of the spiritual power which can enable you to triumph over all adversities and bring new life to the youth of e urope.

To be young is not easy. There are so many calls on one’s time and energy

because, not only are you summoned to perform the duties of the day, but also to prepare yourselves for the tasks which will be yours during the remainder of your lives. in weighing how to apportion your time and energy

to such a multitude of activities you can call upon the power of consulta-tion with your parents, your friends, and the divinely created institutions of the b ahá’í administration.

Those of you who are at a point in your studies or careers where you can

devote a special period of service to the cause of god, may be able to re-

spond to the call of the youth council for an army of youth-year-of-service

volunteers to go out after these conferences to accelerate the winning of the

182-1. gwb, no. 70.1.182.2

182.3

182.4

182.5

182.6

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

8goals of the Three year plan in europe. Those who cannot serve in this way

have other avenues of service in their own countries and abroad. for all of

you there is the opportunity and the need to present the Teachings of the

cause to all whom you meet, through your character, your behavior, your unity, your deeds and your words, and to win their allegiance to the f aith.

may the hosts of the Supreme concourse rush to your aid, and may

bahá’u’lláh bless and guide every step you take for the advancement of his

cause.

we shall remember you all in our prayers in the h oly Shrines.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

183

Response to Concerns Raised by the U.S. National

Spiritual Assembly

19 m ay 1994

The National Spiritual Assembly of the b ahá’ís of the u nited States

dear b ahá’í f riends,

we recall with much joy and deep gratitude to bahá’u’lláh your presence

in the holy land only a short while ago during the month of the fast.

your urgent request to which we acceded by meeting with all nine of your

members in intensive consultations over a period of three days—a new fact

of history in itself—initiated another phase in the evolution of your As-

sembly and reinforced the bonds that bind the American bahá’í community

to the world center of the faith. our hearts were touched by the candor,

courage, and sincerity with which your members presented your concerns,

as well as by the spirit of optimism you displayed despite the overwhelming

challenges and burdens which prompted your request for a meeting with us.

having considered the various points and queries you raised, we are now

able to respond to those which fall under the broad categories of teaching, relations between your National Spiritual Assembly and the continental

counselors, and the functioning of your Assembly.

*  *  *182.7

182.8

183.1

183.2

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

85regarding your “ vision in Action” initiative, you reported evidences of a

tremendous response, some movement, and some expansion; furthermore,

the stimulus of the recent Atlanta conference spearheaded by the conti-

nental counselors caused a marked acceleration of activities. in sum, the

friends have seldom been more visibly active, but growth is slow; you feel

the community has for some time been on the threshold of a breakthrough

which remains elusive. The degeneration of society, as manifested by the

breakdown of moral standards and the alarming increase of violence, you feel, is exerting a debilitating effect on the individual believer. you yearn for

a way to free the teaching potential which to a large extent is locked up in

the individual in the face of these dreadful circumstances.

we feel that an overanxiousness on your part about a breakthrough and

an undue worry over the state of society can be counterproductive. while

there are opportunities for greater growth than is occurring, neither your

Assembly nor the friends must burden themselves with feelings of failure at every disappointment, for such feelings are self-fulfilling and can eas-ily cause stagnation in the expansion of the cause. The tendency towards

frustration, sometimes induced by a desire for instant gratification, must be resisted by an effort to gain deeper appreciation of the divine process. in

exhorting the individual concerning the spiritual obligation resting upon him “to make of the mandate of teaching, so vitally binding upon all, the

all-pervading concern of his life,” Shoghi effendi said that “every bearer of

the message of bahá’u’lláh should consider it not only an obligation but a

privilege to scatter far and wide the seeds of his faith, and to rest content

in the abiding knowledge that whatever be the immediate response to that

message, and however inadequate the vehicle that conveyed it, the power

of its Author will, as he sees fit, enable those seeds to germinate, and in

circumstances which no one can foresee enrich the harvest which the labor

of his followers will gather.”

183-1 you may rest assured that your particularly

blessed community will not be denied a triumphant expansion if its mem-bers remain constant and confident in their teaching activities.

paradoxical as it may seem, the prospects towards the breakthrough you

anticipate in the teaching field are conspicuous in the current, distressing

state of society. you must realize that the worse conditions become, the

more plentiful are the opportunities to teach the cause, the greater the de-

183-1. Adj, ¶78.183.3

183.4

183.5

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

86gree of receptivity to the divine message. bahá’u’lláh certainly gave ample

foreknowledge about the radical, worldwide disturbance which his revela-

tion is creating as a part of the transition towards the unity and peace that

are the ultimate goal of his faith. your awareness of this inevitable transi-

tion should enable your members to detach themselves from the debilitating emotions aroused by the turmoil which characterizes this process and to

equip your Assembly as the highest governing body of the bahá’í commu-

nity in the united States to demonstrate to the friends a confident outlook,

which the persistence and vigor of their teaching activities will fully justify.

Such detachment as exemplified by your Assembly and practiced by

the friends throughout the community will, moreover, signify a spiritual

achievement which was anticipated by Shoghi effendi in his warning to

your community, when he said: “The glowing tributes, so repeatedly and

deservedly paid to the capacity, the spirit, the conduct, and the high rank,

of the American believers, both individually and as an organic commu-nity, must, under no circumstances, be confounded with the characteristics and nature of the people from which god has raised them up.” in other

words, by the attainment of a “sharp distinction between that community and that people,” you and the friends who rely upon your guidance will recognize that American society cannot be exempted from the rigors and consequences of the transition affecting all the world.

183-2

painful as may be the decadent scene, deep as is your sympathy for those

who suffer from the terrible decline of society, you must see the possibilities

which are thus provided for augmenting the healing forces of an emerg-

ing world order. Shoghi effendi advised the North American community

plainly in this regard. “The opportunities which the turmoil of the present age presents, with all the sorrows which it evokes, the fears which it excites,

the disillusionment which it produces, the perplexities which it creates, the

indignation which it arouses, the revolt which it provokes, the grievances it engenders, the spirit of restless search which it awakens, must,” he asserted, “be exploited for the purpose of spreading far and wide the knowledge of

the redemptive power of the faith of bahá’u’lláh, and for enlisting fresh

recruits in the ever-swelling army of h is followers.”

183-3

183-2. Adj, ¶27, 28.

183-3. Adj, ¶71.183.6

183.7

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

87commenting further on the global spectacle of upheavals, cataclysms and

tribulations which the worsening affairs of humanity evoke at the impend-

ing approach of the kingdom of god on earth, Shoghi effendi addressed

these words of insight and encouragement to the North American friends:

“far from yielding in their resolve, far from growing oblivious of their task,

they should, at no time, however much buffeted by circumstances, forget

that the synchronization of such world-shaking crises with the progressive

unfoldment and fruition of their divinely appointed task is itself the work of providence, the design of an inscrutable wisdom, and the purpose of an

all-compelling will, a will that directs and controls, in its own mysterious

way, both the fortunes of the faith and the destinies of men. Such simul-

taneous processes of rise and of fall, of integration and of disintegration, of order and chaos, with their continuous and reciprocal reactions on each

other, are but aspects of a greater plan, one and indivisible, whose Source

is god, whose author is bahá’u’lláh, the theatre of whose operations is the

entire planet, and whose ultimate objectives are the unity of the human race

and the peace of all mankind.”

183-4

moreover, the beloved guardian felt that: “r eflections such as these

should steel the resolve of the entire bahá’í community, should dissipate

their forebodings, and arouse them to rededicate themselves to every single provision of that divine charter whose outline has been delineated for

them by the pen of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá.”

183-5 by being attuned to this divine per-

spective, your Assembly will be able to assist the friends to see that they will

not merely be able to cope with the alarming incidents of social decline they

are daily witnessing, but even better than that, they will be inspired to arise with renewed vision to recruit to bahá’í membership an increasing number

of men and women whose minds and hearts are ready to respond to the

divine message and who will join them in dispelling the bewilderment and

despair gripping their fellow citizens and undermining the structure of their

country.

it is also vital for your Assembly to keep in mind that the mental anguish

which the prevailing situation induces can and must be overcome through prayer and a conscious attention to teaching the cause and living the bahá’í

life with a world-embracing vision. certainly, the members of such a well

183-4. Adj, ¶101.

183-5. Adj, ¶102.183.8

183.9

183.10

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

88established community as yours, one enjoying the special favors providen-

tially conferred upon it by the Tablets of the divine plan, do realize the

urgency and seriousness of their task. Surely they see with what patient endurance the dear friends in the cradle of the faith are meeting their god-

given challenges even to the extent of sacrificing their life’s blood so that the world may become a better place. undoubtedly, the highly esteemed

American believers, who bear the designation “spiritual descendants of the dawn-breakers,”

183-6 know quite well that they must now seize their chance

at this critical time to prove their own capacity to endure that living sacrifice

which, as Shoghi effendi said, in contrast to dying, is required of them if

they are to fulfill the glorious destiny forecast for them in the scriptures

of our faith. may they be granted the celestial strength to pass, over and

over again, the mental tests which ‘Abdu’l-b ahá promised he would send to

them to purify them, thus enabling them to achieve their divinely conferred potential as a force for change in the world.

in the arena of teaching, your indispensable terms of reference and the

unerring resource to which you have ready access are the master’s Tablets

of the divine plan. They invest your community with extraordinary pow-

ers shared by your sister community in canada. it is in reacquainting the

American friends with the special mission, both at home and abroad, as-

signed to them in these seminal and timeless documents, and in relating

their contents to current conditions, that you will find the key to the revital-ization of the teaching work and the winning of outstanding victories on the home front. in this effort you will be powerfully aided by the explanations

provided in the letters of our dear guardian, such as The Advent of  Divine

Justice, “The challenging requirements of the present hour,” “American

bahá’ís in the Time of world peril.”

183-7 we have every confidence that, to-

gether with the continental counselors and the Auxiliary board members,

you can discover the way further to release the enormous energies of the friends and to intensify the zeal which they have so splendidly displayed in the teaching field on so many occasions in the past.

183-6. Adj, ¶15.

183-7 . The latter two letters can be found in cf, pp. 4–37 and 122–32, respectively.183.11

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

89* * *

we were very pleased by the sense you conveyed of an ever-closer rela-

tionship between your Assembly and the continental counselors, and we

were even more deeply impressed by your eagerness to know how you might

strengthen this relationship. A beginning towards achieving your desire would be for you to obtain an integrated understanding of the counselors’

responsibilities and sphere of action in relation to your own.

As you know, a distinguishing feature of the Administrative order is

the existence of elected institutions, on the one hand, which function cor-porately with vested legislative, executive and judicial powers, and of ap-pointed, eminent and devoted believers, on the other hand, who function

primarily as individuals for the specific purposes of protecting and propa-

gating the faith under the guidance of the head of the faith. The two sets

of institutions collaborate in their functions so as to ensure the progress of

the cause. you are undoubtedly aware of the previous exposition of this

subject; however, we offer the following comments to assist your further

understanding of the matter.

The continental boards of counselors and the National Spiritual As-

semblies share in the functions of propagation and protection, but the counselors specialize in these functions from a different level and in a dif-ferent manner. from a continental vantage point, the counselors bring a

perspective to their functions which, when offered to a National Assembly

in the form of counsel, advice, recommendations, suggestions or commen-

tary, enriches the latter’s understanding, acquaints it with a broader experi-ence than its own, and encourages it to maintain a world-embracing vision.

An aspect of the difference in the manner of functioning of the counsel-

ors derives from the instructions given in the will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-

bahá to the hands of the cause of god, the extension into the future of

whose functions of protection and propagation is the responsibility of the

assist the head of the faith to broaden the base, foster the strength and

ensure the security of the National Spiritual Assemblies and the institu-

tions and communities under their jurisdiction. Through their Auxiliary

boards, the continental counselors spread the benefits of their functions to

the local Spiritual Assemblies and the grassroots of the community. These

functions are shaped by their obligations, in the words of the will and Tes-

tament, “to diffuse the divine fragrances, to edify the souls of men, to 183.12

183.13

183.14

183.15

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

90promote learning, to improve the character of all men and to be, at all times

and under all conditions, sanctified and detached from earthly things.”183-8

it can be seen, then, that through their work in propagating and protecting

the faith, the counselors play a major role in knitting and bolstering the

entire fabric of the b ahá’í community.

The flexibility and speed with which the counselors and their Auxiliary

board members can respond to a perceived need in the community—such

as a need for encouragement, explanation of plans, deepening in the Teach-

ings, protection of the covenant—are elements of their functioning which

distinguish them from Spiritual Assemblies; this flexibility enables them to operate as occasions demand, whether it is in giving counsel at a meeting, or

advising an individual in private, or helping the friends to understand and

obey a ruling of the Spiritual Assembly, or dealing with issues of the cov-

enant. in such different modes these officers of the faith are able to draw

attention to relevant Texts, to impart information, explore situations, and acquaint themselves with conditions in ways not possible to a Spiritual As-sembly but important to the success of its plans. They are able then to share with Spiritual Assemblies, as deemed necessary, ideas, analyses, perceptions

and advice which inevitably enhance the ability of these Assemblies to serve

their communities. They thus assist Assemblies to mature. where local

Assemblies are new or weak, Auxiliary board members help them to under-

stand their functions, encourage them to organize their work, and rally the

local believers in support of their Assemblies’ initiatives.

Through the various modes of their activities, the counselors aided by

their Auxiliary boards spark and buttress the growth and development of

Spiritual Assemblies and local and national communities. with this per-

spective, Shoghi effendi’s regarding of the Auxiliary board members as “a

prop and mainstay to the often overworked and overburdened National

Spiritual Assemblies” becomes clear. The indispensability of the involve-

ment of continental counselors and Auxiliary board members in the plan-

ning stages of the teaching work and the benefits of acquainting them with

the hopes and concerns of National Spiritual Assemblies and of seeking their advice are also obvious.

with the opening of the fourth epoch of the formative Age, a procedure

was activated by which the goals of national plans are formulated in joint consultations of National Spiritual Assemblies and continental counselors.

183-8. w T, p. 13.183.16

183.17

183.18

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

91it initiated a new phase in the maturation of the Administrative order. This

development ensures two significant benefits in particular: it enables each

institution to draw on the experiences and insights particular to the other,

thereby making available to the planning process two distinct channels of information from two levels of bahá’í administration; and it also assures to

the counselors a necessary familiarity with the background, rationale, and

content of national plans, which as a matter of principle they are expected to support. both institutions obtain strength from such collaboration, and

we are particularly pleased that the designing of the Three year plan in

the united States followed a pattern which involved the two arms of the

administration in the manner you described to us.

while the counselors and their Auxiliary boards, in addition to the dis-

charge of their specific responsibilities, will support the initiatives adopted

by a National Spiritual Assembly, the Assembly should recognize that the

counselors must be free to determine, according to their own best judg-ment, in what manner that support will be given. There is a great difference between the functions of national committees and Auxiliary board members

in this respect. whereas the committees may be required by the Assembly

to follow particular procedures, Auxiliary board members are not similarly

bound; yet they should not act in a manner that undermines the operations of the National Assembly or its agencies. This does not mean that Auxil-

iary board members may not decide, upon request or not, to participate in

the execution of a particular program or educational project devised by a

national committee, or even to contribute towards the conceptualization

and fruition of the project. it does mean, however, that their prerogative to

proceed within a wider latitude than that accessible to the national commit-

tee should be respected.

by working at the grassroots of the community, an Auxiliary board

member is often able to satisfy a need not being met by any national or local program, but which if dealt with by the Auxiliary board member will

better equip the local friends to achieve the established goals of the com-munity. Such a flexibility on the part of the Auxiliary board member in

dealing with immediate situations, such a freedom for independent action, should be taken for granted by all concerned. however, a pattern of activity

on the part of the Auxiliary board member, or even of a counselor, which

appears to the National Assembly to be seriously diverting attention from the adopted plans of the community should unhesitatingly be made a mat-ter for remedial consultation with the counselor.183.19

183.20

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

92The counselors are members of a continental, as distinct from a na-

tional, institution, and they occupy a rank higher than that of the National

Spiritual Assembly. Apart from any other consideration, their rank is, in a

practical sense, a functional necessity if these officers of the faith are to be

accorded freedom of the community at all levels and their advice and other functions are to be taken seriously. we have said in an earlier letter that “the

existence of institutions of such exalted rank, comprising individuals who play such a vital role, who yet have no legislative, administrative or judicial authority, and are entirely devoid of priestly functions or the right to make authoritative interpretations, is a feature of bahá’í administration unparal-

leled in the religions of the past.”

183-9 it is a difficult concept to grasp. but

with the passage of time since the first contingent of continental counsel-

ors was appointed, much understanding has surely been acquired.

Shoghi effendi stated categorically to your Assembly: “There can be no

conflict of authority, no duality under any form or circumstances in any sphere of bahá’í jurisdiction whether local, national or international.”

183-10

The authority of a National Assembly is therefore not diminished but,

rather, enhanced by the existence of the continental counselors, who are

duty bound by the very character of their responsibilities as protectors of

the faith to uphold the rank and to support the authority of Spiritual As-

semblies. Similarly, the National Assembly must, on the basis of principle

and in its own best interest, ensure that counselors and Auxiliary board

members are not hampered in carrying out their sacred responsibilities and

that their right and freedom to function are upheld.

The attitude of these two institutions towards each other should be mo-

tivated not merely by a legalistic application of the rules of their functional relationship. far more is required, for they must, in the first place, approach

their joint responsibilities within the framework of the spiritual requisites

for all successful bahá’í relationships. where love, respect and courtesy are

genuinely and mutually expressed, estrangement finds no accommodation

and problems become soluble challenges. bahá’u’lláh’s admonition is highly

instructive in this regard; he says: “Abase not the station of the learned in

bahá and belittle not the rank of such rulers as administer justice amidst

you.”

183-11

183-9. muhj, no. 111.14.

183-10. dg, p. 50.183-11. Tb, p. 138.183.21

183.22

183.23

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

9Achieving a closer and more effective relationship between you and the

continental counselors will depend on the cultivation of an incrementally

harmonious attitude and on an openness in your dealings with them which

this attitude will certainly facilitate. The relationship between you should be one of fellowship informed with a sense of respect but devoid of the rigid formalities associated with so many social organizations. when you

have doubts and concerns about your own plans, confide in the counselors;

when something they do causes you worry, talk to them in the proper spirit of bahá’í consultation. remember that they, like yourselves, are burdened

with the work of the cause and are beset with many concerns in its service,

and they need your sympathetic understanding of the challenges they face. open your hearts and your minds to them; regard them as your confidants,

your loving friends. And be ever ready to extend to them your hand in

support.

The existence of a loving, trusting and informal atmosphere in your deal-

ings with the counselors should not, however, be allowed to relax adherence

to the rules governing the working relationship between the continental

board of counselors and their Auxiliary boards, on the one hand, and the

National Spiritual Assembly and its committees, on the other. These mat-

ters are explained in detail in our letter of 1 october 1969, which you have

published.

183-12

* * *

we now wish to address the manner of your functioning as a National

Spiritual Assembly. your analysis of the situation identified the issues of im-

mediate concern about the national administration of the faith, such issues

as: overcentralization, particularly with regard to the administration of the teaching work; your fear that you may be exercising a level of administrative control that may be stifling individual initiative throughout the country;

and the relation of your Assembly to the community.

you live in a society caught in the tightening grip of moral decadence on

a vast scale. but this should come as no surprise to you. it is the unavoid-

able consequence of a pervasive godlessness; its symptoms and repercussions were described in painful detail by Shoghi effendi in several of his letters to

183-12. See muhj, no. 72.183.24

183.25

183.26

183.27

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

9the western friends. inevitably, the American bahá’í community is affected

by this condition to some extent. The corrosive influence of an overbearing

and rampant secularization is infecting the style of administration of the

faith in your community and threatening to undermine its efficacy.

The aggressiveness and competitiveness which animate a dominantly

capitalist culture; the partisanship inherent in a fervidly democratic system;

the suspicion of public-policy institutions and the skepticism towards estab-

lished authority ingrained in the political attitude of the people and which trace their origins to the genesis of American society; the cynical disregard of the moderating principles and rules of civilized human relationships re-

sulting from an excessive liberalism and its immoral consequences—such

unsavory characteristics inform entrenched habits of American life, which imperceptibly at first but more obviously in the long run have come to exert

too great a sway over the manner of management of the bahá’í community

and over the behavior of portions of its rank and file in relation to the

cause. This unwholesome influence must be arrested by immediate, delib-erate effort—an effort which must surely begin within your Assembly itself.

further accommodation of it will severely impede the progress of your com-

munity, despite the abundant possibilities of an imminent breakthrough.

it was due to this concern in particular that we anxiously welcomed your

request for a meeting with us.

The guarantee of well-being and success in all your endeavors to serve the

cause of god can be stated in one word: unity. it is the alpha and omega

of all bahá’í objectives. Among the first admonitions addressed to National

Spiritual Assemblies by Shoghi effendi was the following assertion: “i t is, i

firmly believe, of the utmost urgent importance that, with unity of purpose and action firmly established in our midst, and with every trace of animos-ity and mistrust of the past banished from our hearts, we should form one

united front, and combat, wisely and tactfully, every force that might darken

the spirit of the movement, cause division in its ranks, and narrow it by

dogmatic and sectarian belief.” he then stated that “it is primarily upon the

elected members of the National Spiritual Assemblies throughout the bahá’í

world that this highly important duty devolves,” warning that, “should such a representative and responsible body fail to realize this fundamental requisite for all successful achievement, the whole structure is sure to crumble.”

183-13

183-13. bA, pp. 45, 46.183.28

183.29

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

95unity within the Assembly itself is, of course, of immediate importance

to the wider unity your actions are intended to foster and sustain. At no

time can any member of your Assembly afford to be unmindful of this

basic requirement nor neglect to work towards upholding it. of particular

relevance is the attitude that the members adopt towards their membership on that exalted body. There needs to be a recognition on their part of the

Assembly’s spiritual character and a feeling in their hearts of respect for the

institution based upon a perception of it as something beyond or apart from themselves, as a sacred entity whose powers they have the privilege to engage and canalize by coming together in harmony and acting in accordance with

divinely revealed principles. with such a perspective the members will be

able better to acquire an appropriate posture in relation to the Assembly

itself, to appreciate their role as T rustees of the merciful and to counteract

any impression that they have assumed ownership and control of the insti-tution in the manner of major stockholders of a business enterprise.

Also relevant to effecting unity is the attitude of the friends, whether

serving on any Assembly or not, towards the exercise of authority in the

bahá’í community. people generally tend to be suspicious of those in au-

thority. The reason is not difficult to understand, since human history is

replete with examples of the disastrous misuse of authority and power. A reversal of this tendency is not easily achievable, but the bahá’í friends must

be freed of suspicion towards their institutions if the wheels of progress are to turn with uninterrupted speed. A rigorous discipline of thought and ac-tion on the part of both the friends and the National Assembly will succeed

in meeting this challenge; both must live up to their responsibilities in this

regard by recognizing some fundamental realities.

The oneness of humanity, which is the primary principle and ultimate

goal of the cause of bahá’u’lláh, implies, as Shoghi effendi said, an “or-

ganic change in the structure of present-day society.”

183-14 So fundamental

a change in the structural conception of society must also imply a new

pattern for the administration of community affairs in a bahá’í context. The

insights offered by the beloved guardian, as conveyed by his secretary in a

letter dated 14 o ctober 1941, shed light on this critical subject:

183-14. wob, p. 43.183.30

183.31

183.32

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

96The friends must never mistake the bahá’í administration for an

end in itself. it is merely the instrument of the spirit of the faith. This

cause is a cause which god has revealed to humanity as a whole. it is

designed to benefit the entire human race, and the only way it can do

this is to reform the community life of mankind, as well as seeking to regenerate the individual. The bahá’í Administration is only the first

shaping of what in future will come to be the social life and laws of community living.

183-15

Shoghi effendi’s advice to an individual in another instance provides a fur-

ther perspective: “h e urges you to do all you can to promote unity and love

amongst the members of the community there, as this seems to be their

greatest need. So often young communities, in their desire to administer the cause, lose sight of the fact that these spiritual relationships are far more important and fundamental than the rules and regulations which must gov-

ern the conduct of community affairs.”

183-16

it can therefore be deduced that the importance of the bahá’í administra-

tion is its value in serving as a facilitator of the emergence and maintenance of community life in a wholly new mode, and in catering to the require-

ments of the spiritual relationships which flow from love and unity among the friends. This touches upon a distinguishing characteristic of bahá’í life

which such spiritual relationships foster, namely, the spirit of servitude to

god, expressed in service to the cause, to the friends and to humanity as a

whole. The attitude of the individual as a servant, an attitude preeminently

exemplified in the life and person of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá, is a dynamic that perme-

ates the activities of the faith; it acquires collective, transformative force in

the normal functioning of a community. in this regard, the institutions of

the faith stand as channels for the promotion of this salient characteristic. it

is in this framework that the concepts of rulership and leadership, authority

and power are properly understood and actualized.

The appearance of a united, firmly based and self-sustaining community

must be a major goal of a Spiritual Assembly. composed of a membership

reflecting a diversity of personalities, talents, abilities and interests, such a community requires a level of internal interaction between the Assembly

183-15. lg, no. 277 .

183-16. lg, no. 1344.183.32a

183.33

183.34

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

97and the body of the believers based on a commonly recognized commitment

to service, and in which a sense of partnership based on appreciation of

each other’s distinctive sphere of action is fully recognized and unfailingly

upheld, and no semblance of a dichotomy between the two appears. in such

a community leadership is that expression of service by which the Spiritual Assembly invites and encourages the use of the manifold talents and abili-

ties with which the community is endowed, and stimulates and guides the

diverse elements of the community towards goals and strategies by which the effects of a coherent force for progress can be realized.

The maintenance of a climate of love and unity depends largely upon the

feeling among the individuals composing the community that the Assembly is a part of themselves, that their cooperative interactions with that divinely ordained body allow them a fair latitude for initiative and that the quality

of their relationships with both the institution and their fellow believers

encourages a spirit of enterprise invigorated by an awareness of the revo-lutionizing purpose of bahá’u’lláh’s revelation, by a consciousness of the

high privilege of their being associated with efforts to realize that purpose,

and by a consequent, ever-present sense of joy. in such a climate, the com-

munity is transformed from being the mere sum of its parts to assuming a

wholly new personality as an entity in which its members blend without losing their individual uniqueness. The possibilities for manifesting such a

transformation exist most immediately at the local level, but it is a major

responsibility of the National Assembly to nurture the conditions in which they may flourish.

The authority to direct the affairs of the faith locally, nationally and

internationally, is divinely conferred on elected institutions. however, the

power to accomplish the tasks of the community resides primarily in the mass of the believers. The authority of the institutions is an irrevocable

necessity for the progress of humanity; its exercise is an art to be mastered.

The power of action in the believers is unlocked at the level of individual initiative and surges at the level of collective volition. in its potential, this

mass power, this mix of individual potentialities, exists in a malleable form

susceptible to the multiple reactions of individuals to the sundry influences

at work in the world. To realize its highest purpose, this power needs to express itself through orderly avenues of activity. even though individuals

may strive to be guided in their actions by their personal understanding of the divine Texts, and much can be accomplished thereby, such actions,

untempered by the overall direction provided by authorized institutions, are 183.35

183.36

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

98incapable of attaining the thrust necessary for the unencumbered advance-

ment of civilization.

individual initiative is a preeminent aspect of this power; it is therefore

a major responsibility of the institutions to safeguard and stimulate it. Similarly, it is important for individuals to recognize and accept that the institutions must act as a guiding and moderating influence on the march of

civilization. in this sense, the divine requirement that individuals obey the

decisions of their Assemblies can clearly be seen as being indispensable to

the progress of society. indeed, individuals must not be abandoned entirely

to their own devices with respect to the welfare of society as a whole, neither

should they be stifled by the assumption of a dictatorial posture by members

of the institutions.

The successful exercise of authority in the bahá’í community implies the

recognition of separate but mutually reinforcing rights and responsibilities between the institutions and the friends in general, a recognition that in turn welcomes the need for cooperation between these two interactive forces of society. As was stated in advice given by Shoghi effendi: “The individuals

and assemblies must learn to cooperate, and to cooperate intelligently, if they desire to adequately discharge their duties and obligations towards the faith. And no such cooperation is possible without mutual confidence and

trust.”

183-17

direction comes from Assembly decisions, but its effectiveness depends

not only on the clarity with which it is given but also on a number of

spiritual and moral factors which must be blended in the general attitude of

the individual believers, on the one hand, and the manner and style of the functioning of the Assembly, on the other. The following advice of Shoghi effendi, addressed in an early letter to the western friends, deals with these

two aspects:

let us also bear in mind that the keynote to the cause of god is not

dictatorial authority, but humble fellowship, not arbitrary power, but

the spirit of frank and loving consultation. Nothing short of the spirit

of a true bahá’í can hope to reconcile the principles of mercy and

justice, of freedom and submission, of the sanctity of the right of the

183-17 . lgA, p. 9.183.37

183.38

183.39

183.39a

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

99individual and of self-surrender, of vigilance, discretion and prudence

on the one hand and fellowship, candor and courage on the other.

The duties of those whom the friends have freely and conscien-

tiously elected as their representatives are no less vital and binding than the obligations of those who have chosen them. Their function is not to dictate, but to consult, and consult not only among themselves,

but as much as possible with the friends whom they represent. They

must regard themselves in no other light but that of chosen instru-ments for a more efficient and dignified presentation of the cause of

god. They should never be led to suppose that they are the central

ornaments of the body of the cause, intrinsically superior to others in

capacity or merit, and sole promoters of its teachings and principles. They should approach their task with extreme humility, and endeavor

by their open-mindedness, their high sense of justice and duty, their

candor, their modesty, their entire devotion to the welfare and in-terests of the friends, the cause, and humanity, to win not only the

confidence and the genuine support and respect of those whom they

should serve, but also their esteem and real affection.

183-18

These instructions of the beloved guardian get to the very heart of what

must be more deeply internalized by the members of your Assembly at this time. we repeat for emphasis the terms “extreme humility,” “open-mind-

edness,” “candor,” “modesty”; and we underscore the openness which is

implicit in candor, because the cooperation which must be fostered between your Assembly and the friends will depend significantly on the degree to

which, with wise discretion, you share your concerns with the community.

your greatest opportunity for this is the annual National convention, when

the representatives of the entire community come together to consult with you. it is not sufficient that you give only good news and encouraging sta-

tistics to the delegates. do as Shoghi effendi advised you: “b anishing every

vestige of secrecy, of undue reticence, of dictatorial aloofness, from their midst, they should radiantly and abundantly unfold to the eyes of the del-

egates, by whom they are elected, their plans, their hopes, and their cares.

They should familiarize the delegates with the various matters that will have

183-18. bA, pp. 63–64.183.39b

183.40

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

00to be considered in the current year, and calmly and conscientiously study

and weigh the opinions and judgments of the delegates.”183-19

even if the delegates find themselves unable to offer useful recommenda-

tions toward the resolution of particular issues, by your bringing them into

your confidence, they will develop an appreciation, as would be impos-

sible otherwise, of the serious matters confronting the cause. with this

understanding, they will be equipped to assist the community to respond effectively to your decisions, no matter how challenging these may turn out

to be. moreover, it will relieve you of any overwhelming sense of burden

to know that such a responsible body of believers shares your innermost

concerns; and even more than that, the effect of your openness will be to strengthen the delegates’ support of your authority, which it is their sacred

duty to give. besides, as it is neither possible nor practicable for your As-

sembly to meet with all the believers, nor for the members to be constantly

traveling throughout the community, the friends’ feeling that you are re-

mote can be ameliorated, though not entirely removed, by the effectiveness

of your interactions with the delegates.

in your openness and candor you will, no doubt, avoid ineptitudes that

pass as norms in the freedom of speech practiced in your nation. in a society

where “telling it like it is” employs a style of expression which robs language of its decorum, and in a time when stridency is commonly presumed to be a quality of leadership, candor is crass, and authority speaks in a loud and vulgar voice. people are frequently obliged to receive direction from their

leaders in such disrespectful modes; this is a reason for resentment and sus-picion towards those in authority. by contrast, bahá’í institutions have the

task of accustoming the friends to recognizing the expression of authority

in language at a moderate pitch.

it would be impossible to overestimate the obligation resting upon you to

refine your dealings with the community in the ways already described. you

cannot at any time afford to forget that the manner of the use of authority is critical to the success of your work. with this in mind, you must also

attend seriously to the behavior of those, more particularly your officers,

who must of necessity act on your behalf in carrying out your decisions and conveying your instructions to others. further, it is sometimes the case

that staff members at your National center, in their eagerness to be exactly

183-19. bA, p. 79.183.41

183.42

183.43

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

01and completely obedient, carry out the instruction of your Assembly with

a sharpness of manner and tone that hurts people and provokes resentment

against the very body the staff are striving to serve with loyalty and devotion.

The staff should be sensitized to the situation and made to realize, through your loving and persistent guidance, that the spiritual requisites for good and respectful relations with others must be conscientiously applied in their

interactions with the friends because to do so is not only virtuous in itself

but will also minimize the incidence of bad feeling towards your Assembly.

The temperament of authority in the administration of justice varies ac-

cording to the degree of the gravity of each case. Some cases require that

the Assembly take action that is firm or drastic. even so, Assembly members

have always to be mindful that the authority they wield must in general

be expressed with love, humility and a genuine respect for others. Thus

exercised, authority strikes a natural note and accords with that which is

acceptable to spiritually attuned and fair-minded souls. The following guid-ance of Shoghi effendi, as conveyed by his secretary, is especially relevant:

“The administrators of the faith of god must be like unto shepherds. Their

aim should be to dispel all the doubts, misunderstandings and harmful dif-ferences which may arise in the community of the believers. And this they can adequately achieve provided they are motivated by a true sense of love for their fellow-brethren coupled with firm determination to act with justice

in all cases which are submitted to them for their consideration.”

183-20

do clearly bear in mind that our emphasis of the spiritual requisites of

your functioning is not a mere expression of pious idealism. far, far from it.

Their exclusion from public discourse and from the considerations of world

leaders largely accounts for the current state of society. indeed, they are as

practical in effect as they are spiritual in essence. employ them consciously,

constantly, confidently; and see how your actions will attract the confirma-

tions of the h oly Spirit in the response of the community.

As to your worry about overcontrolling the friends: by appreciating the

nature of the power of action which they possess, you will be able to gauge

how best to guide and direct them. A wide latitude for action must be al-

lowed them, which means that a large margin for mistakes must also be

allowed. your National Assembly and the local Assemblies must not re-

act automatically to every mistake, but distinguish between those that are

183-20. lg, no. 119.183.44

183.45

183.46

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

02self-correcting with the passage of time and do no particular harm to the

community and those which require Assembly intervention. related to this

is the tendency of the friends to criticize each other at the slightest provoca-tion, whereas the Teachings call upon them to encourage each other. Such tendencies are of course motivated by a deep love for the faith, a desire to

see it free of any flaw. but human beings are not perfect. The local As-

semblies and the friends must be helped through your example and through loving counsel to refrain from such a pattern of criticism, which stunts the growth and development of the community. you should also be fearful of

laying down too many rules and regulations. The cause is not so fragile

that a degree of mistakes cannot be tolerated. when you feel that certain

actions may become trends with harmful consequences, you may, instead of making a new rule, discuss the matter with the counselors, enlisting

their support in educating the friends in a manner that will improve their understanding and their conduct.

A new burst of energy would accrue to the operation of the Three year

plan if the friends, both individually and collectively, could feel a greater

sense of freedom to engage in a wide range of activities originating with themselves. even if you are doing nothing deliberately to discourage such

freedom, their accumulated impression of institutional disapproval, how-ever derived, and their fear of criticism are, to a considerable extent, in-

hibiting their exercise of initiative. At this exact time in history when the

peoples of the world are weighed down with soul-crushing difficulties and the shadow of despair threatens to eclipse the light of hope, there must

be revived among the individual believers a sense of mission, a feeling of

empowerment to minister to the urgent need of humanity for guidance and thus to win victories for the faith in their own sphere of life. The com-

munity as a whole should be involved in efforts to resolve such issues. A

single answer would, of course, be inadequate, there being so many diverse

elements and interests in the community. These matters require not only your own independent consultation but consultation with the counselors

as well. Although Spiritual Assemblies are good at specifying goals, they

have not yet mastered the art of making use of the talents of individuals

and rousing the mass of the friends to action in fulfillment of such goals. removing this deficiency would be a mark of the maturation of these insti-

tutions. m ay your Assembly lead the way.

A further decentralization of the national administration would increase

the possibility of loosening control at the top and encouraging the involve-183.47

183.48

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

0ment of individuals in the work of the community at the grassroots. we

therefore welcome your intention to take such action. however, you may

wish to do this in incremental steps rather than in one sweeping motion.

The matter is left entirely to your judgment. it may encourage you to know

that in a few countries where the challenge of administering the teach-ing work and providing other administrative services assumed formidable

proportions, various approaches have been used to achieve a measure of

decentralization. A detailed description of some of these approaches will be sent to you separately.

*   *   *

having said all the foregoing, we pause to assure you of our full aware-

ness of the great burdens you carry and of the ceaseless calls upon you to render services in the absence of adequate resources. do not despair. your

capacity to respond will match any challenge that may confront you in

these troubled times; you have only to act on principle. your community’s

past has been glorious; its future is great beyond calculation. The divine

promises to your community are certain; the blessings of bahá’u’lláh are

assured as you strive to fulfill his purpose. The wings of the beloved mas-

ter remain spread over you that you may succeed in discharging the tasks he has especially entrusted to your care. And our love ever surrounds you

and your cherished community, growing stronger at every moment. Step

forward then to meet the requirements of the hour with undiminished hope

and confidence.

The power released by bahá’u’lláh works at a quickening pace, speeding

the processes of change which must usher in the new order he proclaimed.

The declining state of society demonstrates it, the global yearning for new solutions to human problems confirms it. much is at stake: the fortunes of

humankind hang precariously in the balance. The bahá’í community bears

grave responsibilities toward the near and far future as movement towards

the lesser peace accelerates. Now is the time for the friends to seize new

opportunities to extend the range and influence of the faith, to reach a new

level of action in expanding the community and fortifying its foundations. it is indeed time for audacious action undeterred by a fear of mistakes, fired

by the urgency of ministering to the pressing needs of humanity. will the

American bahá’í community not see its chance to meet the challenge? will 183.49

183.50

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

0its members not once again blaze a trail that can set in motion a myriad

victories?

our ardent petition at the holy Threshold is that the response of the

champion-builders of the New world order will be immediate, whole-

hearted and abundantly confirmed.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

184

Availability of Electronic Versions of Sacred Writings

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]