THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2000-02-28

by the iranian government that will have the important effect of permitting

the registration of bahá’í marriages in that country. for quite a number of

years, as you know, the bahá’í community of iran has been seeking a way by

which bahá’í marriages and the birth of bahá’í children could be officially

registered and also validated on identity cards. The new situation could

well have come about because of the high number of bahá’í marriage cases

and the steadfastness of the individuals involved in refusing to register their bahá’í marriages under any other religious designation.

it has now been learned that the head of the iranian judiciary recently

issued a circular letter to all registry offices throughout the country, stating

that any couple who appear before the latter officials, acknowledging that

they are husband and wife, may be registered without being required to

state their religious affiliation. An official certification may then be issued and supplied to the couple concerned. At the same time, the judiciary has issued a related instruction to the registry offices with respect to the issuance

of birth certificates and identity cards. couples whose personal status has

been validated by the aforementioned official certification are now to have

such information entered on their identity cards, acknowledging that they

are recognized as husband and wife. Thereafter, they should experience no

difficulty in registering children of the marriage.

This new development removes at a stroke one of the most troublesome

problems that has long handicapped the members of the iranian bahá’í

community. The arrangement provides ample proof of what bahá’í repre-

sentatives abroad have consistently maintained; namely, that the govern-

ment of iran is able, if it so wishes, to find ways within existing laws and

regulations, to accord bahá’ís the same freedoms enjoyed by all other ira-

nian citizens. . . .

Department  of tHe secretariat325.1

325.2

325.3

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

709326

Date for Formation of Regional Bahá’í Councils

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]