THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1989-08-28

To all National Spiritual Assembliesdear b aháí f

in addition to the accompanying letter addressed by the universal house

of justice to the followers of bahá’u’lláh concerning the Nineteen day

feast, we have been asked to convey its comments on the following points

with which you will have to deal in assisting the community in its obser-vance of this important festival.

first, the house of justice is aware that in many areas only a limited time

can be devoted to the feast by the friends, because the feast day may come

during the week when most people have to work, and the evening hours do not allow much time for its observance. while the house of justice does

not wish to deemphasize the preference expressed by Shoghi effendi that the

feast be held on the first day of the bahá’í month, it feels that in instances

of difficulty, where the friends would otherwise be unable to attend, the

National Spiritual Assembly may point out to local Assemblies that it is

permissible to hold the feast at another time within the bahá’í month, such

as on a weekend.

69-5. cc 1:920.69.12

70.1

70.2

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

17Second, the administrative portion of the feast should not be laborious or

burdensome. it can become so because too many reports by too many local

bahá’í committees are presented at one feast. Such reports could perhaps be

conveyed in bulletins. Also, there can be too many messages from agencies

of the national administration. while it lies within the discretion of the

National Spiritual Assembly to send a message or items of information to

be shared at the feast, care must be taken not to overburden these events

with a multiplicity of items from the National Assembly and its auxiliary

agencies. Some National Assemblies have developed the practice of sending a message to every feast; this is, of course, not wrong in principle, but they

may need to examine their methods of communicating with the believers and see whether occasional messages might not be sufficient. The idea is that the local bahá’í communities should exercise control over the feast and

not be made to feel that they are being overrun by messages, instructions and assignments from the national administration of the faith. This whole

matter needs to be studied by the National Spiritual Assembly with a bal-anced perspective, so that while important national issues are not ignored,

the potentialities of the feast for development of the local community are

fully realized.

Third, the accompanying letter to the friends points to the desirability

of the inclusion in the feast of cultural elements which can enhance the

experience without contravening bahá’í principles. The National Spiritual

Assemblies will want to be watchful that the incorporation of such elements

does not lead to a degeneration of the feast as a uniquely bahá’í institution

and, particularly, that no objectionable customs and practices begin to creep into its observance.

we have also been asked to send you the enclosed compilation, entitled

The Nineteen Day Feast,

70-1 as a resource on which you can draw in further

educating the community and in answering the questions of the friends

concerning this vital institution. you are free to share its contents with the

friends but you are under no obligation to publish it.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

70-1. The compilation is too lengthy to include here; see cc 1, pp. 417–58.70.3

70.4

70.5

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

1871

Assessment of Six Year Plan Pioneer Goals

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]