THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1987-08-20

dear b ahá’í f riends,

your letter of 22 july 1987 has been received by the universal house of

justice, which has asked us to respond as follows.33.8

34.1

35.1

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

66The provisions set out in the letter of 17 july 1978 written to your Na-

tional Spiritual Assembly on behalf of the house of justice remain appli-

cable, including the principle that it is improper for bahá’ís to solicit funds

from non-b ahá’ís in the name of the f aith for any purpose.

The following passage from the pen of bahá’u’lláh: “i t would be impos-

sible to conceive any act more contemptible than soliciting, in the name of

the one true god, the riches which men possess”35-1 clearly indicates what

the attitude of the b ahá’ís should be.

There is, however, a wide range of fund-raising activities in which

bahá’ís may engage. for example, bahá’í institutions are free to approach

governments or institutions which hold themselves out as wishing to fund

charitable activities, to apply for grants to assist in specific humanitarian

projects. A bahá’í school which has both bahá’í and non-b ahá’í pupils is

free to raise funds for its own development by such activities as concerts,

etc., or by appeals to parents; in this instance, a humanitarian institution is clearly identified, and the funds are being collected in its name rather than

in the name of the faith. Another example is that of a bahá’í who wishes to

sell an item he owns to the general public for a fair market price; he is free to

use the proceeds for any purpose he wishes, including contributing them all,

or in part, to the bahá’í fund, provided he does not represent to the public

that the sale is being conducted for the benefit of the f aith.

There would be no objection to the bahá’í community’s joining with

others to give a concert or undertake some other similar activity to raise funds for a deserving charity. Such activities or even the making of dona-

tions to humanitarian work should be, and should be seen to be, acts of sin-cere assistance and cooperation. in choosing to engage in such fund-raising,

a bahá’í community would need to ensure that assisting the charity would

not have partisan political implications or support purposes contrary to the interests of the faith. it would need to watch carefully that its involvement

in such activities does not divert its energies from the vital work of teaching

the f aith and consolidating its i nstitutions.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

35-1. gwb, no. 100.2.35.2

35.3

35.4

35.5

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

6736

Plans for Development of the Buildings

on the Arc and Terraces

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]