THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2001-01-09

To the conference of the continental boards of cou

dearly loved f riends,

five years ago, we called on the body of counselors assembled in the

holy land to aid the b ahá’í world to understand and shoulder the chal-

lenges of systematic growth. The brilliant achievements of the four year

plan testify to the wholehearted response they made. Today, we ask for an

equally great effort on your part, this time to ensure the successful launching

of the f ive year p lan.

in your deliberations on the nature of this next stage in the unfoldment

of the divine plan, you need to take into account the magnitude of the

changes occurring in the fortunes of the faith. At the world center, the

raising of the great edifices now standing on the Arc represents a major

step in the consolidation of a divinely appointed Administrative order. The

four year plan witnessed a remarkable increase in the institutional capacity

of bahá’í communities in every continent. The evolution of National and

local Spiritual Assemblies has visibly accelerated, and regional councils,

where they have been established, have brought a new energy and effective-

ness to the work of the cause. with the birth and efflorescence of more

than 300 training institutes, the faith now possesses a powerful instrument

for developing the human resources needed to sustain large-scale expan-

sion and consolidation. further, the ability of the bahá’í community to

influence the course of human affairs, both through its dealings with gov-

ernments and organizations of civil society and through its endeavors in

social and economic development, has been greatly enhanced. The cause

of bahá’u’lláh stands at the threshold of a new epoch, at a moment in his-

tory when, despite confusion and outbursts of fresh hostility, the world has

made real strides towards peace. one clearly sees an increasing receptivity to

his all-pervasive and resplendent Spirit.

Advancing the process of entry by troops will continue as the aim of

the five year plan—indeed the aim of the series of plans that will carry

the community to the end of the first century of the formative Age. The

acceleration of this vital process will be achieved through systematic activity 348.1

348.2

348.3

2000–2001  •  T h e  T W e lv e  m o n Th  Pl a n

76on the part of the three participants in the plan: the individual believer, the

institutions, and the community.

The Training Institute

A searching analysis of the four year plan recently prepared for us by

the international Teaching center demonstrates that the training institute

is effective not only in enhancing the powers of the individual, but also

in vitalizing communities and institutions. The continued development of training institutes in the diverse countries and territories of the world, then, must be a central feature of the new p lan.

drawing on the wealth of experience now accumulated in this area of

endeavor, institutes will have to provide their communities with a constant stream of human resources to serve the process of entry by troops. elements

of a system that can meet the training needs of large numbers of believers have already been tested worldwide and have proven themselves. Study cir-cles, reinforced by extension courses and special campaigns, have shown their ability to lend structure to the process of spiritual education at the grassroots.

The value of a sequence of courses, each one following the other in a logical

pattern and each one building on the achievements of the previous ones, has become abundantly clear. various models are emerging that provide insight

into how such sequences can be used to create training programs. in one

example the main sequence, much like the trunk of a tree, supports courses branching out from it, each branch dedicated to some specific area of train-ing. in another, several tracks of courses, each with its own focus, run parallel.

institutes will do well to examine these elements and approaches and employ

them in a manner that responds to the opportunities before them.

At the outset of the T welve month plan we underscored the need for

bahá’í children to be nurtured spiritually and to be integrated into the life

of the cause. There is every indication from the response of the friends

thus far that a raised awareness of the importance of child education will, in fact, be a hallmark of this brief yet significant plan. A new impetus has

been given to bahá’í children’s classes. increased awareness has also brought

to light opportunities to offer moral and spiritual education to children in general, as exemplified by the success of the efforts to introduce courses on the b ahá’í f aith into programs of official school systems.

That institutes are placing more and more emphasis on the training of

teachers for children’s classes is a particularly encouraging sign. other mea-348.4

348.5

348.6

348.7

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

76sures are equally essential if regular classes for every age are to be offered

in bahá’í communities throughout the world. in some countries, national

and regional committees have been established to assist local Spiritual

Assemblies in the discharge of their responsibility to educate children. in

these, the relationship between the committees and the training institute will steadily evolve as experience is gained, each agency enhancing the work

of the other. but there are many countries in which the institute is the

only structure developing the capacity to organize and maintain courses

in locality after locality. As this approach is working well with youth and adults, and increasingly for junior youth, there is no reason why the train-

ing institute should not also shoulder similar responsibility with respect

to children, where necessary. As a general rule, institutes do not take on the administration of plans and programs for expansion and consolidation.

conducting children’s classes, however, is a unique enterprise, of special

urgency. in those countries where the task is given to it, the institute be-

comes a center of learning intensely engaged in the spiritual education of the friends from the tenderest age through adulthood.

Individual Initiative in Teaching

with the work of institutes growing in strength, attention has now to be

given everywhere to systematizing teaching efforts. in the document “The

institution of the counselors” just issued, we emphasize the role that the

Auxiliary board members and their assistants play in helping the friends to

meet this challenge, both at the level of individual initiative and of collective

volition. As individuals progress through institute courses, they deepen their

knowledge of the faith, gain insights, and acquire skills of service. Some of

the courses devoted to teaching will no doubt treat the subject in general terms. others will focus on various means of sharing bahá’u’lláh’s message

with specific segments of society, incorporating the wisdom gleaned from the teaching endeavors of the friends. This combined process of action, learning and training will endow communities with an ever-increasing num-ber of capable and eager teachers of the cause.

T raining alone, of course, does not necessarily lead to an upsurge in

teaching activity.

in every avenue of service, the friends need sustained encouragement.

our expectation is that the Auxiliary board members, together with their

assistants, will give special thought to how individual initiative can be cul-tivated, particularly as it relates to teaching. when training and encourage-348.8

348.9

348.10

2000–2001  •  T h e  T W e lv e  m o n Th  Pl a n

765ment are effective, a culture of growth is nourished in which the believers see

their duty to teach as a natural consequence of having accepted bahá’u’lláh.

They “raise high the sacred torch of faith,” as was ‘Abdu’l-b ahá’s wish, “la-

bor ceaselessly, by day and by night,” and “consecrate every fleeting moment of their lives to the diffusion of the divine fragrance and the exaltation of god’s holy word.”

348-1 So enkindled do their hearts become with the fire

of the love of god that whoever approaches them feels its warmth. They

strive to be channels of the spirit, pure of heart, selfless and humble, pos-sessing certitude and the courage that stems from reliance on god. in such

a culture, teaching is the dominating passion of the lives of the believers.

fear of failure finds no place. mutual support, commitment to learning,

and appreciation of diversity of action are the prevailing norms.

Systematic Programs of Growth

during the coming months, you will be helping national communities,

whose circumstances differ widely, to formulate plans for systematic growth.

There are many countries where increased institutional capacity, particu-

larly at the level of the region, now makes it possible to focus attention on

smaller geographic areas. most of these will consist of a cluster of  villages

and towns, but, sometimes, a large city and its suburbs may constitute an area of this kind. Among the factors that determine the boundaries of a

cluster are culture, language, patterns of transport, infrastructure, and the

social and economic life of the inhabitants. The areas into which a region divides will fall into various categories of development. Some will not yet be open to the faith, while others will contain a few isolated localities and

groups; in some, established communities will be gaining strength through a vigorous institute process; in a few, strong communities of deepened believ-ers will be in a position to take on the challenges of systematic and acceler-

ated expansion and consolidation.

once the appropriate categories have been identified, national plans in

these countries will need to make provision for the progressive opening of

virgin areas through the settlement of homefront pioneers. Such goals can

be met with relative ease if pioneers are experienced in institute programs

and are able to use their methods and materials in raising up a group of dedicated believers who can carry the work of the faith forward in the area.

348-1. Sw Ab, no. 204.2.348.11

348.12

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

766precious indeed will be the privilege of those who, in the remaining years

of the first century of the formative Age, place their trust in god and arise

with fervor to take the lead in carrying the light of divine guidance to every

part of their countries. it is our hope that this call for homefront pioneers

will generate great enthusiasm among the friends and open before their eyes

a new vista of possibilities to serve the f aith.

According to this scheme, national plans will also need to include provi-

sion for the strengthening of other areas which, although open to the faith,

have yet to reach the level of development that prepares them for intensive activity. in those areas where strong communities with a corps of deepened

believers exist, systematic programs for the expansion and consolidation of the faith should be established forthwith. we have already indicated that

the international Teaching center has identified certain patterns of growth

appropriate for relatively small geographical areas. Since then, it has ana-lyzed several pilot projects in various parts of the world, and its findings are highly encouraging. The lessons learned now provide a body of experience for the launching of programs for systematic growth in area after area. As

you consult on this matter with National Spiritual Assemblies and regional

councils, you will want to keep the Teaching center informed.

it is important that national communities not rush into establishing inten-

sive programs in an area before conditions are propitious. These conditions include: a high level of enthusiasm among a sizeable group of devoted and

capable believers who understand the prerequisites for sustainable growth and can take ownership of the program; some basic experience on the

part of a few communities in the cluster in holding classes for the spiritual

education of children, devotional meetings, and the Nineteen day feast;

the existence of a reasonable degree of administrative capacity in at least a few local Spiritual Assemblies; the active involvement of several assistants

to Auxiliary board members in promoting community life; a pronounced

spirit of collaboration among the various institutions working in the area; and above all, the strong presence of the training institute with a scheme of coordination that supports the systematic multiplication of study circles.

programs initiated in such areas should aim at fostering sustainable

growth by building the necessary capacity at the levels of the individual, the institution, and the community. far from requiring grandiose and elaborate

plans, these programs should focus on a few measures that have proven over the years to be indispensable to large-scale expansion and consolidation. Success will depend on the manner in which lines of action are integrated 348.13

348.14

348.15

2000–2001  •  T h e  T W e lv e  m o n Th  Pl a n

767and on the attitude of  learning that is adopted. The implementation of such

a program will require the close collaboration of the institute, the Auxiliary

board members and their assistants, and an Area Teaching committee.

At the core of the program must lie a sound and steady process of expan-

sion, matched by an equally strong process of human resource development.

A range of teaching efforts needs to be carried out, involving both activities

undertaken by the individual and campaigns promoted by the institutions.

As the number of believers in the area rises, a significant percentage should receive training from the institute, and their capabilities be directed towards the development of local communities.

our message of 26 december 1995 delineating the features of the four

year plan made reference to the stages through which a community passes

as it develops. The experience that has been gained in the ensuing years in

working with communities at various stages will prove valuable to programs

of growth. one of the first steps in implementing the program may well

be a survey to determine the condition of each locality in the area. Among the initial goals for every community should be the establishment of study

circles, children’s classes, and devotional meetings, open to all the inhabit-

ants of the locality. The observance of the Nineteen day feast has to be

given due weight, and consistent effort should be made to strengthen the local Spiritual Assemblies. once communities are able to sustain the basic

activities of bahá’í life, a natural way to further their consolidation is to in-

troduce small projects of social and economic development—for example, a literacy project, a project for the advancement of women or environmental

preservation, or even a village school. As strength builds, the responsibility

for an increasing number of lines of action is to be devolved onto the local

Spiritual Assemblies.

Throughout the endeavor, periodic meetings of consultation in the area

need to reflect on issues, consider adjustments, and maintain enthusiasm and unity of thought. The best approach is to formulate plans for a few months at a time, beginning with one or two lines of action and gradu-ally growing in complexity. Those who are actively involved in the imple-

mentation of plans, whether members of the institutions or not, should

be encouraged to participate fully in the consultations. other area-wide

gatherings will also be necessary. Some of these will provide opportunity

for the sharing of experience and further training. others will focus on the

use of the arts and the enrichment of culture. Together, such gatherings will

support an intense process of action, consultation and learning.348.16

348.17

348.18

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

768The friends who participate in these intensive programs of growth should

bear in mind that the purpose is to ensure that the revelation of bahá’u’lláh

reaches the masses of humanity and enables them to achieve spiritual and

material progress through the application of the Teachings. vast numbers

among the peoples of the world are ready, indeed yearn, for the bounties that bahá’u’lláh alone can bestow upon them once they have committed

themselves to building the new society he has envisioned. in learning to

systematize their large-scale teaching work, bahá’í communities are becom-

ing better equipped to respond to this longing. They cannot withhold what-ever effort, whatever sacrifice, may be called for.

A Spiritual Enterprise

clearly, the scheme described here, while suitable to many national com-

munities, cannot be applied in every situation. we count on the ability

of the bahá’í institutions to create plans which, if not reflecting the total

scheme above, will incorporate elements of its vision, according to the cir-

cumstances of each national community. bahá’í communities are, of course,

engaged in a range of indispensable endeavors such as public information activity, proclamation efforts, external affairs work, production of literature, and complex social and economic development projects. most certainly, as

plans are devised, they will also address these challenges.

The nature of the planning process with which you will be helping the

friends is in many ways unique. At its core it is a spiritual process in which communities and institutions strive to align their pursuits with the will of

god. The major plan of god is at work and the forces it generates impel

humanity towards its destiny. in their own plans of action, the institutions

of the faith must seek to gain insight into the operation of these great

forces, explore the potentialities of the people they serve, measure the re-

sources and strengths of their communities, and take practical steps to enlist

the unreserved participation of the believers. The nurturing of this process is the sacred mission entrusted to you. we have every confidence in your

ability to achieve it. may bahá’u’lláh bless and sustain you through his

unfailing grace and mighty confirmations.

348.20

348.21

2000–2001  •  T h e  T W e lv e  m o n Th  Pl a n

769349

The Institution of the Counselors

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]