THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1982-01-21

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

312.1 The Hand of the Cause William Sears, deeply moved by the savage onslaught on the dearly loved and heroic Bahá’í community in Iran, has written a dramatic account of the current persecution.

312.2 Mr. Sears’s story acquires deep poignancy from the account of his travels in Iran when he came to know and love the Persian Bahá’ís, both individually and collectively, among whom are a number of the martyrs.  In a white heat of indignation, he came to the World Center to write the first draft of his book, using the detailed information available here to present—as he is so well able—the successive tragedies which, even in these days of universal terrorism, are beginning to shock the world.

312.3  The House of Justice believes that Mr. Sears’s book will not only be warmly welcomed by the friends, but can also be a potent instrument for interesting large numbers of people in the tragic events now taking place in Persia, winning their sympathy for the harassed Bahá’ís and leading them to inquire further about a Faith which can inspire such fortitude in ordinary people. 413He does not miss the opportunities offered, in refuting the trumped-up charges made against the Bahá’ís, for presenting basic Bahá’í teachings and conveying a persuasive sense of why Bahá’u’lláh is worth dying for.  Furthermore, widespread knowledge among the public of the persecutions in Iran can be an added deterrent to their continuation, reinforcing the many efforts being made by governments and other agencies as a result of the constant appeals of the Bahá’í International Community and National Spiritual Assemblies.

312.4 The House of Justice requests you to give the greatest possible support to distribution of this book, calling it to the attention of the friends and urging them to use it as a topical introduction for their contacts, to try to persuade their local newspapers and radio stations to review it and their local bookshops to display it.  We have asked that it be published at as low a price as possible so that it can be used by all the friends.  It is now at press and you will shortly hear from the publisher.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

DEPARTMENT OF THE SECRETARIAT

313 Plans for Commemorating the Fiftieth Anniversary of the Ascension of Bahíyyih Khánum

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]