Messages

to the

Antipodes

Communications to

the Bahá’í Communities

of Australia

2nd edition

Shoghi Effendi

Messages

to the

Antipodes

Communications to

the Bahá’í Communities

of Australia

2nd edition

Edited by
Graham Hassall

Bahá’í Publications Australia

Messages to the Antipodes

© National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia Inc.

All Rights Reserved

2nd Edition, March 2021

ISBN 978-1-876322-03-8

Version v2.2.2

Distributed by

Bahá’í Distribution Services

173 Mona Vale Road

Ingleside NSW 2101

bds@bahai.org.au

www.bahaibooks.com.au

Image on p. 184 courtesy of Sun-Herald

Image on p. 186 courtesy of Qi-Jie Oh

Contents

Introductions

Introduction to the second edition by Stephen Hall..	.	v

Introduction to the first edition by Peter Khan..	.	ix

Preface by Graham Hassell..	.	xiii

Glossary..	.	xvii

Letters written by Shoghi Effendi or on his behalf

Messages to National Spiritual Assemblies..	.	1

Messages to other institutions, groups and individuals..	.	187

Appendices

The passing of Shoghi Effendi..	.	465

Biographical notes..	.	467

Index..	.	491

Introduction to the second edition

The publication of a new edition of Messages to the Antipodes by the National Spiritual Assembly of Australia coincides with celebrations marking a century of the Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh in this ancient land.  This compilation of communications from Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of Bahá’u’lláh’s Faith, provides deep insight to the manner in which, over a period of some four and a half decades, he single-handedly raised vibrant Bahá’í communities in Australia and New Zealand.  The volume also traces Shoghi Effendi’s approach, during the latter stages of his ministry, to bringing into reality within the remote islands of the Pacific, the promise of the Blessed Beauty—in response to the sufferings endured at the cruel hands of His enemies in the land of His Birth—that God “will assuredly rear His head in the midmost heart of the ocean and proclaim:  ‘He is the Lord of all that are in heaven and all that are on earth!’”  Penned by the late Dr Peter Khan, the introduction to the first edition of Messages to the Antipodes, published in 1997, concludes with the observation, “[t]he passage of years will magnify rather than diminish the gratitude that succeeding generations of Australasian Bahá’ís will feel for” the monumental labours of Shoghi Effendi.  How, then, have the past two decades magnified this sense of gratitude?  How has this brief but transformative period increased individual and collective capacity to comprehend the significance and continuing relevance of the guidance showered copiously by Shoghi Effendi throughout his Ministry on the fledgling Bahá’í community in this vast and far flung region of the planet?  What can be discerned from a study of this volume about where the Bahá’í community has come from, what it has become and how it will advance in applying the Teachings of the Blessed Beauty, in His words, striving “to translate that which hath been written into reality and action”—endeavouring, however humbly, to serve humanity.

Boundless love, patience and encouragement perfume the communications of Shoghi Effendi with the three protagonists of the Divine Plan—individuals, institutions and the community—whether written by him or on his behalf, the latter invariably accompanied by a personal note of endearment in his own hand.  The Guardian’s humility, his spirit of servitude, the openness of his heart and mind, and the power of his voice, permeate his correspondence, constantly urging the friends to arise and, in so doing, to turn to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as their guide and refuge while perceiving himself as but their “devoted brother and co-worker”.  The magnetism of his self-sacrificing love inspired and empowered the handful of early believers in Australia and New Zealand, and later in the Pacific Islands, to arise to fulfil ambitious goals in spreading the

healing message of Bahá’u’lláh and establishing the Administrative Order of the Faith.  Thus was laid the essential foundation for subsequent and current endeavours aimed not only at widening the embrace of the Bahá’í community but penetrating the life of society through the release of spiritual forces.

The power and importance of vision is a major theme reflected throughout the messages of the Guardian.  He imparted a vision that provided clarity, purpose and impetus to the believers in their, always sacrificial and often heroic, exertions.  But he also developed in them an ability to generate a unified vision for the work of the Cause of God in the region and, over time, the capacity for sustained action.  These dimensions are illustrated by the Guardian’s appeal, in a personal note appended to a letter addressed on his behalf to the National Spiritual Assembly of New Zealand dated 27 June 1957—just a few short months before his passing—for the “systematic prosecution of a Plan, on which the immediate destinies of the entire New Zealand Bahá’í community directly depend; and which can alone provide the stepping-stone to the still more brilliant achievements destined to ennoble the annals of the Faith in that remote island of the globe.”  The capabilities essential to the success of the current series of Plans—traversing the last quarter of the first century of the Formative Age of the Faith—were inherent to the processes set in motion and guided by the Guardian from the outset of the establishment and spread of the Cause in Australasia.

Perseverance and resolve are also prominent among the wide range of other capacities cultivated by the Guardian through his communications with the early believers in Australasia, who were frequently confronted by the limitations of their own resources and feelings of inadequacy, sometimes in the face of seemingly overwhelming obstacles.  The perseverance and resolve displayed by those intrepid friends in opening up new territories to the Faith and breaking through prevalent social barriers is an especially noteworthy aspect of the spiritual heritage of the region.

The messages of the Guardian reveal fundamental insights about the ultimate purpose of religion as can be gleaned in the context of the present efforts to contribute¸ in all manner of settings, to the movement of peoples towards Bahá’u’lláh through helping to raise capacity amongst local inhabitants to regenerate the life of their communities.  In this regard, a letter dated 22 June 1923, written on the Guardian’s behalf to the first New Zealand believer, Margaret Stevenson, conveys, “[i]t is true that your group is now still small, but he assures you that your group will before long grow larger and larger day by day.  It has been always the case with the growth of every religion.  Some pure soul or souls go to some land and sow the seeds of the heavenly teachings in the hearts of few who are most pure and so most receptive.  The seeds will germinate and grow in them.  The fruits of those seeds appear in the regeneration of the lives of those primary adherents.  These primary adherents share the bounties they

have received with other souls, who through them obtain new life and light and in turn illumine other people.”  In another communication of the same year, addressed to the small band of believers in Australia and New Zealand, the Guardian presents them with a compelling challenge, stating:  “Ours then is the duty and privilege to labour, by day, by night, amidst the storm and stress of these troublous days, that we may quicken the zeal of our fellow-man, rekindle their hopes, stimulate their interests, open their eyes to the true Faith of God and enlist their active support in the carrying out of our common task for the peace and regeneration of the world.”  It is a challenge that remains no less relevant and compelling to the protagonists of the current stage in the unfoldment of the Divine Plan—a Plan that will take humanity to its promised destiny.

Over a period of some thirty eventful years Shoghi Effendi had raised to maturity the Bahá’í communities of Australia and New Zealand.  In a cable message addressed to the National Convention in April 1953 he then announced¸ “HOUR STRUCK OPENING NEW CHAPTER UNFOLDMENT CAUSE AUSTRALASIA STOP TEN YEAR PLAN DESIGNED EXTEND RANGE CONSOLIDATE ACTIVITIES SPLENDIDLY INITIATED AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND TASMANIA CARRY LIGHT FAITH NEIGHBOURING ISLANDS ….”

The resulting flow of pioneers into the Pacific would illumine even the remotest of spots on the globe with the light of Bahá’u’lláh.  After just “[t]hree years of magnificent exploits” the Guardian was able to share, at Riḍván 1956, news of the dramatic impact of the Ten Year Crusade throughout the world.  He made particular reference to the growth of the Faith in the Gilbert and Ellice Islands—now Kiribati and Tuvalu—where “as many as five hundred, have been and are being enrolled beneath His standard ….”  He concludes, “Premonitory signs can already be discerned in far-off regions heralding the approach of the day when troops will flock to its standard, fulfilling the predictions uttered long ago by the Supreme Captain of its forces.”  The pursuit of this vision through the continuing enhancement of the process initiated and fanned by the beloved Guardian is the driving force and central focus of individuals, institutions and communities in every corner of the region.

“[T]he sore need of bleeding humanity, in its present state of uncertainty and peril, for the regenerating Spirit of God”, as conveyed by Shoghi Effendi in a letter dated 12 March 1923 to the believers in Australasia and a range of other countries, is representative of a constant imperative he placed before the followers of Bahá’u’lláh in calling them, from the earliest stage of his ministry, to unceasing action.  The echo of this appeal continues everywhere to motivate the efforts of believers and those who have felt impelled to join in contributing to building a vibrant and just society.  “Conscious of their high calling,” the Guardian explains, “confident in the society-building power which their Faith possesses, they press forward, undeterred and undismayed, in their

efforts to fashion and perfect the necessary instruments wherein the embryonic World Order of Bahá’u’lláh can mature and develop.”

It is readily apparent from even such a brief review of certain themes contained in the communications of Shoghi Effendi with the believers in Australasia, that the magnitude of the gratitude of succeeding generations in the region for his monumental labours continues to grow and mature, a pattern that will endure throughout the Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh.  All humanity will surely come to realize that in the words of the Universal House of Justice, “The Guardianship does not lose its significance nor position in the Order of Bahá’u’lláh merely because there is no living Guardian.”

Stephen Hall, Haifa, Israel

Introduction to the first edition

This volume brings together, for the first time, the communications addressed to the followers of Bahá’u’lláh in the Australasian area by Shoghi Effendi during the period of his ministry, from 1921 to 1957, as Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith.  Since the majority of the Bahá’ís of Australasia were resident in Australia during that period, most of the letters collected here were addressed to the believers in that continent.  It constitutes a valuable depository of the authoritative guidance from the Head of the Faith during that time.

It is much more than a historical record of letters written to early followers of this Faith, many of whom are no longer alive.  It provides a fascinating opportunity to examine the twentieth-century development in the remote Antipodes of a religion having its origins in the heart of Asia.  The forces and processes which led to the establishment of a staunch Bahá’í community in so distant a region have not, at the present time, been clearly traced.  It is known that the first mention of the new religion in Australia was in a Melbourne newspaper in March 1846, less than two years after the Declaration of the Báb, to be followed by a report in an Auckland, New Zealand, newspaper in February 1853.  The first Bahá’í in the Antipodes is accepted as being in New Zealand in 1912, while Australia was opened to the Faith by its illustrious Bahá’í pioneers in 1920.

One might inquire how a new belief originating in an Asian setting, promulgated by a small handful of adherents of limited means and modest social standing, could have been spread far and wide across so vast a region of the planet as that of Australia and the Pacific Islands, at a time when the general population displayed no predisposition to embrace a faith other than orthodox Christianity and no discernible inclination to assess the relative merits of the great religions of the world.  It is in the pages of this volume that one might profitably search for an answer to this question.  Sustained and invigorated by the loving guidance of Shoghi Effendi, the early Bahá’ís proceeded slowly, and at times painfully, to propagate their Faith, undeterred by the meagre response to their efforts or by their own consciousness of their perceived inadequacy.  Setbacks were overcome, obstacles surmounted, and discouragement conquered, as these valiant believers struggled ever onward, confident that one day the Institutions of the Bahá’í Administrative order would be raised up in all parts of the region and would develop as centres of spiritual illumination and unity.  To read the letters published here is to attain a profound sense of admiration for the heroism and dogged persistence of those first believers and to acquire an abiding gratitude for their devoted labours.

This book conveys a painfully realistic portrait of the development of the Australasian Bahá’í community.  No attempt is made to mask the fact that the

infant community endured periods of deep misunderstanding and fundamental misconception, of disunity and inertia, of frustration and impatience in the process of its growth.  But the mysterious power of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh welded believers from widely-separated areas, from differing socio-economic backgrounds, and from diverse cultural perspectives, into the unified, energetic and confident community which now exists and which is clearly entering a phase of unprecedented growth and consolidation.

The significance of the events referred to in this book might best be assessed against the background of the evolution of Australian national consciousness during the years in which the letters were written, since so much of the correspondence was directed principally to Australia.  In a newly-federated nation, searching for its identity, acutely conscious of its isolation from its European cultural roots and of its proximity to Asia, the Bahá’ís established centres of world-mindedness, of universality and of international cooperation, symbolized by such actions as the monetary contributions made by the fledgling community to global Bahá’í endeavours of earthquake relief in Asia and of construction of the Mother-Temple of the American continent.

The members of the Australian and New Zealand Bahá’í communities are shown, on the evidence of the letters addressed to them by Shoghi Effendi, to have represented, in many ways, the best of the character and temperament of those nations.  Over the years, he called attention to “the loyalty, the vigour and the devotion” with which they conducted their affairs, expressed his “admiration for their zeal and noble determination”, hailed “the solidarity and self-sacrifice, the courage and confidence they display in their incessant and manifold activities”, and lauded “the vitality and adventurous spirit the members of these communities have so strikingly manifested”.  In a society which was male-oriented to an extreme, Bahá’í women played a courageous and disproportionate role as pioneers, teachers and administrators of the Faith.  Disregarding the prevailing tendencies to assign little value to the indigenous peoples, the Bahá’ís attached importance to attracting to their Cause as brothers and sisters the Aboriginal Australians and the Maori New Zealanders, thus contributing to the upliftment of the peoples and to their enlistment in the world-wide endeavour of spiritual regeneration of humanity.  This book is of far more than archival value.  It provides insight into the complex dynamics of the growth of a Bahá’í community in a Western society, and into the gradual emergence of that community from unmitigated obscurity into a position of admiration and respect from the most progressive elements of that society.  It might also profitably be studied for the clarifications it offers about various aspects of the Bahá’í teachings, and the prescription it sets out for the process of acquiring a more profound comprehension of these teachings.  As world events unfold, a deeper understanding will be gained of the significance

of the “spiritual axis, extending from the Antipodes to the northern islands of the Pacific Ocean” to which the Guardian referred.

The prodigious accomplishments of Shoghi Effendi in the 36 years of his ministry as Guardian of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh are a continuing source of wonder and astonishment.  A perusal of his letters to Australasia reveals his infinite patience, his compelling logic, the clarity of his thought, his sensitivity to believers who only dimly grasped the importance of the work to which he was calling them, his compassion for them in their setbacks, and the fathomless love and tenderness with which he nurtured and trained them from spiritual infancy to adulthood.  As stated by the Universal House of Justice in its tribute to Shoghi Effendi on the occasion of the first World Congress in 1963:

He it was, and he alone, who unfolded the potentialities of the widely scattered, numerically small, and largely unorganized Bahá’í community which had been called into being during the Heroic Age of the Faith.  He it was who unfolded the grand design of God’s Holy Cause; set in motion the great plans of teaching already outlined by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá; established the institutions and greatly extended the endowments at the World Centre, and raised the Temples of America, Africa, Australasia, and Europe; developed the Administrative Order of the Cause throughout the world; and set the ark of the Cause true on its course.

The passage of years will magnify rather than diminish the gratitude that succeeding generations of Australasian Bahá’ís will feel for his monumental labours.

Peter J. Khan, Haifa, Israel

Preface

The Bahá’í communities of Australia, New Zealand, and the Pacific Islands had their origins at the very dawn of the Formative Age.  Their early champions were nurtured by heroes and heroines whose belief in the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh had been confirmed and consolidated through contact with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, during his travels to the West.  Through the unaided efforts of Clara and Hyde Dunn, the Master’s wish that his Father’s teachings be spread to the islands of the South Seas was thus realised within his lifetime.  Soon after, news of His passing spread a cold wind over the pioneers, which only the tender and hopeful words of Shoghi Effendi could disperse.  At the time of his appointment as Guardian and Head of the Bahá’í Faith, in the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, there were Bahá’ís in no more than thirty-five countries of the world.  Thirty-six years later, when at the untimely close of his ministry, the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh had become known in nearly two hundred more, modest geographical and numerical spread had enlarged the scope of the Bahá’í community in Australasia from two members in one country, to some thousands of followers in over 100 localities in Australia and New Zealand, and a further 210 localities amongst the islands of the Pacific.  From the pen of Shoghi Effendi had flowed to them more than 700 letters and cables.  Although the number of communications is small when compared to the volume of guidance directed to individual Bahá’ís and to Bahá’í institutions in other continents, the Australian and New Zealand communities share with them the rare privilege of having been in contact with Shoghi Effendi from the beginning to the end of his ministry.  With his unerring guidance, local and national institutions of Bahá’u’lláh’s rising World Order in the “antipodes” were nurtured through their infancy and period of complete obscurity.  By 1963, three of the original fifty-six pillars of the Universal House of Justice had been raised in the South Pacific.  The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand existed from 1934 until 1957, when separate National Spiritual Assemblies were formed for each of these Bahá’í Communities.  The Regional Spiritual Assembly of the South Pacific was established in 1959 and the National Spiritual Assembly of Papua New Guinea was established in 1969.

In 1970 the Australian National Spiritual Assembly published Letters from the Guardian to Australia and New Zealand 1923–1957; in 1982, to mark the twenty-fifth anniversary of the formation of the New Zealand National Spiritual Assembly, that body produced Arohanui:  Letters from Shoghi Effendi to New Zealand.  The significant expansion of Bahá’í communities in these two countries, as well as in the islands of the Pacific, in recent years, together with the lack of accessibility to the aforementioned books and other earlier

publications, made it imperative that the Guardian’s correspondence with individuals and institutions in the Australasian region be made more widely available.  The suggestion was made in late 1988 to gather this correspondence in one publication.  The task became one of considerable regional collaboration.  About one third of the communications from the Guardian were in the Australian Bahá’í Archives at Mona Vale in Sydney.  To these were added others received from the National Spiritual Assemblies of the Cook Islands, Fiji Islands, Mariana Islands, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Tonga, and the Western Caroline Islands.  Not all of these Assemblies had additional information, but all deserve thanks for their investigations.

Numerous individuals also shared precious letters received from Shoghi Effendi.  Among the pioneers to the Pacific, Lilian Ala’i, Margaret and Noel Bluett, Virginia Breaks, Vi Hoehnke, Elena Marsella, and Jean Sevin responded to requests for copies of previously unpublished letters.  James Heggie also shared copies of his treasured correspondence.  Throughout the project, Hand of the Cause of God Mr Collis Featherstone gave encouragement, and much guidance.  Mrs Madge Featherstone also assisted greatly, finding several previously unknown letters in Mr Featherstone’s papers.

The work was greatly aided by the patient, invaluable, and meticulous work of the staff at the Department of Library and Archival Services at the Bahá’í World Centre, who supplied several hundred communications that had not been located in searching Australian and Pacific Bahá’í Archives.  Other correspondence was received from the United States National Bahá’í Archives.  Following the task of keying the letters and cables onto computer, an advisory team to review the project, consisting of Miguel Gil, Lilian Ala’i, and Aflatoon Payman (aided in later stages by Manúchir Gabriel and Rod Haake), painstakingly checked proofs against copies of the original communications.  Layout, design, and final production were handled by Barry Anderson.

In 2020, to mark the centenary of the arrival in Sydney of Clara and Hyde Dunn (on April 10, 1920), the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia decided to publish a second edition of Messages to the Antipodes.  This provided an opportunity to include additional messages and to correct a number of errors that had been identified in the text and footnotes of the 1997 edition.  Staff at the Bahá’í World Centre, at the Australian National Bahá’í Archives, and at Bahá’í Publications Australia, are to be thanked for their meticulous work in identifying additional messages and for correcting errors and omissions from the first edition.

A word concerning the scope of this book is necessary.  In his introduction to the first edition of this volume (1997), Dr Peter Khan pointed out that this publication by no means constitutes a regional history of the Bahá’í Faith—although its contents facilitate the writing of such.  Nor do its pages fully detail the most significant personalities and episodes in the Australasian

Bahá’í communities—for whereas some individuals chose to write to Shoghi Effendi (as they were expressly encouraged by him to do), others refrained, not wishing to add to his heavy workload news of what they regarded as their small concerns, or victories.  Hence the mention or otherwise of people and places in this work, and whether on one occasion or many, does not measure the contribution of each.  That task awaits another time.

Shoghi Effendi is known to have written more than 35,000 letters to the Bahá’í world:  those directed to the Antipodes, more than 700, appear in the present volume.  These include 81 that appeared in Letters of the Guardian to Australia and New Zealand, as well as 82 published in Arohanui:  Letters from Shoghi Effendi to New Zealand.  A select number of additional letters have been included which, although not directed to correspondents within the region, have some direct relevance to it.

As the letters were penned for Shoghi Effendi by a series of secretaries, across almost four decades, they lack a uniformity in style and presentation.  Different uses of “s” and “z”, for example, have been retained, rather than standardised.  Every effort has been taken to ensure that the contents of the letters have been reproduced in their entirety.  In a few instances, however, names have been omitted out of respect for the privacy of individuals.  Minor errors in grammar and style have been corrected with permission of the Department of Archives.  Shoghi Effendi had difficulty in securing suitable secretarial support.  At times family members assisted, while at other times Western Bahá’ís served as secretaries during extended periods spent in Haifa.  They included ‘Azízu’lláh S. Bahádur (in 1924), Soheil Afnán (1924–1930), Rúḥí Afnán (1926–1933), Ḥusayn Rabbání (1931–1940), Mihrángíz Rabbání (1932), J. E. Esslemont—who had lived in Australia briefly before becoming a Bahá’í—(1925), and Ethel J. Rosenberg (1927).  Later, secretarial support was given to the Guardian by Rúḥíyyih Khánum, and in the 1950s, by Amelia Collins (1951), Leroy Ioas (1952–1957), and Jessie Revell (1953).

In addition to hand-written and typed letters, Messages to the Antipodes includes more than 200 “cablegrams”, which are reproduced here in capital letters to evoke their original appearance and intent.  Unlike letters, which took many weeks to arrive by sea, cabled messages were transmitted “telegraphically” through wires or radio signals, and their cost was based on number of words rather than weight.  Shoghi Effendi used cables in at least three contexts:  when haste was necessary (such as while a summer school or national convention was in session); when the message was brief (such as approving a course of action by an Assembly or an individual), and when the format assisted in evoking particular responses in their recipients.  “Since the inception of his ministry”, Rúḥíyyih Khánum explained in The Priceless Pearl:  “… Shoghi Effendi had increasingly used the medium of telegrams and cablegrams, not only because they saved time but because, as he explained

to me, of their psychological effect; a cable conveys a sense of urgency and drama and is often a better way of driving home one’s point.  Shoghi Effendi developed what one might call the language of cables to such a high degree that they became a literary accomplishment.  Not infrequently he sent cables the length of letters.  He thought in the abbreviated form when he wrote them.  It was not a question of expressing a thought in the normal style of composition and then eliminating all the words that could be left out and still convey the meaning; from the beginning he did not think those words into his text at all and thus the style is very graphic, powerful and dramatic.  It loses in style—and often incorrect meaning—when someone interpolates it with all the “if’s” and “and’s” and “of’s” and the “the’s” and so on he thinks should be there to make it clear.  To insert such interpolations without parentheses is such an unwarranted interference in the texts of our Faith, as it means some editor has inserted into Shoghi Effendi’s own sentence words that he thinks will clarify what Shoghi Effendi meant; on the other hand to insert anything at all, even in parentheses, seems to imply the reader is a fool and not able to understand for himself what the Guardian meant.”  It is hoped that the publication of the Guardian’s communications to the Bahá’ís of the Australasian region at this time will assist us in understanding the social and spiritual context in which we labour, and in grasping also the potential for the unfoldment of these communities, as Shoghi Effendi so clearly and expectantly described.

Graham Hassall (Editor)

Glossary

Auxiliary Board

An institution created by Shoghi Effendi in 1954 to assist the Hands of the Cause of God in the promotion and protection of the Bahá’í community.

Continental Board of Counsellors

An institution created in 1968 by the Universal House of Justice as a means of developing “the institution of the Hands of the Cause with a view to extension into the future of its appointed functions of protection and propagation ….”

Feast

A gathering of Bahá’í communities held every nineteen days, on the first day of every Bahá’í month.  Feasts comprise devotions, consultation, and fellowship, thus fulfilling spiritual, administrative and social functions for Bahá’í communities at local level.

Gilbert and Ellice Islands

A National Spiritual Assembly was established in the Gilbert and Ellice Islands Colony in 1967.  This evolved into separate national bodies when the colony gained independence as the two separate countries Kiribati (1979) and Tuvalu (1978).

Hand of the Cause

Individual appointed by Bahá’u’lláh, and later by Shoghi Effendi, charged with specific duties of protecting and propagating the Bahá’í Faith.

Ḥaram-i-Aqdas

The gardens at Bahjí surrounding the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh.  The term means “Most Holy Sanctuary”.

Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds

A term meaning “The Sacred Fold”, used to refer to the central offices for a Bahá’í community, whether at national or local level.

Knight of Bahá’u’lláh

A title given by Shoghi Effendi to Bahá’ís who travelled during the first year of the World Crusade (1953–1954) to open a “virgin” territory, as well as to those who were the first to arrive at territories that remained to be opened after that date.

Local Spiritual Assembly

The local administrative body (LSA) which is directly elected from the body of the believers during Riḍván, serving for a period of one year.

Mariana Islands

Islands which were part of the Regional Spiritual Assembly of the North Pacific, in which a National Spiritual Assembly was established in 1978.

Mashriqu’l-Adhkár

The term for Bahá’í Houses of Worship and for practices of worship, which means “Dawning-place of the remembrance of God”.

National Convention

A gathering of delegates for the purpose of electing and consulting with the National Spiritual Assembly.  National Convention is held annually during the Riḍván period (21 April–2 May).

National Spiritual Assembly

The national administrative body (NSA) of a Bahá’í community, whose members are elected for a one year term by delegates to National Convention.

Naw-Rúz

The Bahá’í New Year, which takes place on the spring equinox, generally on 21 March.

New Hebrides

The Baha’i Community was governed by the Regional Spiritual Assembly of the South Pacific (from 1959), the Regional Spiritual Assembly of the Southwest Pacific (from 1964), the National Spiritual Assembly of the New Hebrides (from 1977), before coming under the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of Vanuatu in 1980.

Riḍván

A twelve-day festival beginning annually around 21 April, to mark Bahá’u’lláh’s declaration of his mission.  Elections for Local Spiritual Assemblies are held on the first day of Riḍván, while those for the National Spiritual Assembly are held sometime during the Riḍván period.

Society Islands

Former name of Tahiti and the Tuamotu Islands, now named French Polynesia.

Summer School

Residential programs which combine instructional sessions with Bahá’í fellowship.

Universal House of Justice

Supreme administrative body of the Bahá’í Faith, ordained by Bahá’u’lláh in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.  Its members are elected at five-year intervals by the members of all National Spiritual Assemblies.

World Crusade

A ten-year plan of expansion and consolidation planned and initiated by Shoghi Effendi, which commenced in 1953.

Messages to
National Spiritual Assemblies

26 July 1934 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Miss Brooks,

I am directed by the Guardian to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of June 6th, written on behalf of the NSA of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand, and to convey to you, and to your collaborators on that Assembly his grateful appreciation of the stupendous efforts you have unanimously exerted for making your first Convention such a successful and promising meeting.  Your collective and continued sacrifices, as well as the assistance and guidance of Bahá’u’lláh have surely been responsible for this historic triumph which you have been able to achieve in the administrative field of the Cause—a triumph which will inevitably bring about a renewed and deeper spiritual consciousness to all the believers in these far-off lands.

Shoghi Effendi is praying from the very depths of his heart for your guidance and assistance, and hopes that as a result your National Assembly will be soon enabled to take such steps as would enable it to extend and to further consolidate its national as well as international activities.

With warm greetings to you and to all the friends in Adelaide,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker,

My heart is filled with joy and gratitude as a result of the perusal of your letter.  I long to be in close and constant touch with your newly-formed National Assembly—the first of your administrative activities and the herald of one of the most fruitful and stirring periods in the history of the Faith in that promising continent.  I will be so glad to receive copies of the minutes of your gatherings, and urge you to keep in close touch with your sister Assemblies throughout the Bahá’í world.  I will assuredly pray for you and your dear and devoted collaborators from the depths of my heart.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

17 October 1934 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í friend,

I am directed by the Guardian to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated August 31st with its most interesting enclosures, all of which he has carefully read and considered.  It is with deep gratification that he follows the progress and extension of the work of your NSA, and he hopes and prays that through the confirmations of the Almighty it will serve to give an increasing impetus to the progress of the Faith in your land.

The Guardian has read with particular interest the minutes of the meetings of your NSA.  He hopes to receive them regularly, and thus to be in close and constant touch with your national activities.

In regard to your question as to whether it is permissible to substitute the plural pronoun for the singular in prayers worded in the singular, the Guardian would strongly urge your NSA to inform the friends to strictly adhere to the text of the Holy Writings, and not to deviate even a hair-breadth from what has been revealed by the Holy Pen.  Besides, it should be noted that congregational prayer has been discouraged by Bahá’u’lláh, and that it is allowed only in the case of the prayer for the dead.

Concerning the Healing Prayer, the Guardian wishes me to inform you that there is no special ruling for its recital.  The believer is free to recite it as many times and in the way he wishes.  There are also no obligatory prayers for the Fast.  But there are some specific ones revealed by Bahá’u’lláh for that purpose.  As to the instructions given in the little black covered Prayer Book, they are by no means complete and are only tentative.  When the Book of Aqdas is published, the believers will have then full and authoritative prescriptions about the form of prayer, and other instructions and rulings of a spiritual character.

With loving greetings to you and to the members of the NSA,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dearly beloved co-worker:

My constant prayers for the extension of the activities in which you and your dear fellow-labourers are so strenuously engaged will be offered on your behalf that the splendid era which you have inaugurated may redound to the glory and honour of the Most Great Name.  I am truly proud of the manner in which my loved friends in Australia and New Zealand have arisen to discharge their sacred and pressing responsibilities.  Great triumphs, I feel convinced, are in store for them if they persevere in their mighty task.  May the Almighty bless their high endeavours and enable them to achieve His purpose.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

16 January 1935 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Your welcome letter of the 13th of December, together with the accompanying message of December 11th addressed to the Guardian by “The General Purposes and Business Committee” of the NSA have all been duly received and deeply appreciated by him.

He has also received and read with great care and interest the enclosed copy of the minutes of the above-mentioned committee, and was pleased to realize that, despite the various impediments standing in the way of your Assembly, that body is functioning smoothly and with one accord.  He hopes that the various steps taken by your Committee in connection with the publication of the “Herald of the South” will all materialize and meet with success.

May I also in closing express the Guardian’s appreciation of your efforts in connection with the management and direction of this monthly review, and also with regard to your activities in the field of teaching.

With his loving greetings to you and to your co-workers in the “Herald of the South” Committee, and with the assurance of his prayers for you all.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers:

The repeated evidences of the strenuous efforts exerted by the believers in Australia and New Zealand for the spread of the Cause and the rise and consolidation of its institutions have brought me intense joy and excited my deepest admiration.  I urge them to persevere, to remain united, not to relax in their determination, and to strive with all their might to extend the scope of their meritorious activities.  I will continue to pray for them from the bottom of my heart.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

29 January 1935

The Secretary, NSA of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í Friend,

At the direction of the Guardian I am enclosing the translation of a report he has recently received from Persia, and addressed to the Persian NSA by a believer from Kirmán.

The Guardian feels your NSA will be interested to read this report as it throws much light on the conditions under which the Faith is now passing in Persia.

With his best wishes and greetings,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

24 April 1935 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

The Guardian has read with great care and interest your letter of the 24th of March last, and has noted with deep satisfaction the steady progress which your NSA is making since its formation last year.  He is particularly pleased and encouraged to realise how wisely and effectively your Assembly is adjusting itself to the general conditions and specific requirements of the Cause in Australia and New Zealand, to such an extent that obstacles which a year ago seemed to be insurmountable have now, through the sustained and earnest efforts of the friends, been partially if not completely removed.  Your Assembly has, indeed, truly vindicated its ability and power to function as a well-organized and united body, and this in the face of manifold difficulties which the all-conquering spirit of the Faith could alone overcome.  Nothing short of this Divine spirit, as expressed through the self-sacrificing and confident labours of the Australian and New Zealand friends, could have so effectively subdued those forces which every now and then threatened to undermine the foundations of your Assembly, and thus overthrow the entire system of the Administration in your land.

Now that the NSA has successfully emerged out of these difficulties and trials, the Guardian has every reason to believe that the progress thus far achieved will continue undiminished and undeterred by any obstacle, however formidable it may seem to appear.

In his moments of meditation and prayer at the Holy Shrines he will specially supplicate for the guidance and assistance of the NSA and will supplicate Bahá’u’lláh to inspire its members in all their deliberations.

With his warmest and most loving appreciation and greetings to them and to all the friends in Adelaide.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

I fully approve of the decisions arrived at by your Assembly regarding the various issues referred to in your letter, and feel gratified to learn of the zeal, the constancy, the loyalty and the determination with which the national representatives of the believers in Australia and New Zealand are prosecuting the noble work entrusted to them by the Almighty.  I would urge you to take the necessary steps for the incorporation of your National Assembly as soon as you adopt your Declaration of Trust and By-Laws, and I pray that the

almighty hand of Bahá’u’lláh may guide and sustain you in your high and historic endeavours.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

30 May 1935 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í Friend,

The Guardian has directed me to thank you for your letter of the 30th of April last which he has just received and deeply appreciated reading.

He has also received the sum of twenty pounds sterling which the friends in Australia and New Zealand have generously contributed to the Cause, and wishes you to convey to them all the expression of his most sincere and loving appreciation of the spirit that has led them to make this donation.  He hopes and prays that the Almighty may abundantly reward them for the self-sacrifices they have borne in this connection.

With regard to the “Herald of the South” magazine.  Shoghi Effendi is very much pleased to witness how its standard is improving, and how effectively it is being used by the friends in their teaching work.  What he would advise the editors is to make an effort to make this review as interesting and as stimulating to the non-Bahá’í public as possible.  To this end, he suggests that more emphasis be laid on the number and quality of articles, and that the latter be written not only on specific Bahá’í subjects, but should cover a wide range of material whether, social, religious or humanitarian.  The science section is, no doubt, very important and has a special appeal to the young and the new-comers.  The Esperanto section is also highly useful, and adds a good deal to the international character of the review.

In closing Shoghi Effendi wishes me to express once more his appreciation of your services to the Cause, whether in the local or the national field of Bahá’í activity, and to also assure you of his prayers for the success and continued expansion of your labours for the spread and establishment of the Faith in your country.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear co-worker:

I am deeply touched by these evidences of the devotion, the incessant activities, and the undeviating loyalty of the believers in Australia and New Zealand.  Through their high endeavours they have laid the foundations of the Administrative Order of their Faith in that far-off continent.  They are loyally and devotedly labouring to rear on this basis the institutions of the World Order

of Bahá’u’lláh.  May He increasingly sustain, guide and bless their meritorious and historic activities.

Shoghi

19 June 1935 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

The Guardian has received your letter dated May 8th, and has carefully read and considered its contents.  He wishes me to thank you for it, and specially to convey to you, as well as to the other members of your NSA, his hearty congratulations over the success that has attended your national elections this year.  He hopes and prays that as years go by your Assembly will increasingly grow in unity and strength, and will demonstrate its capacity to cope with the manifold problems and difficulties with which it will be inevitably confronted as it forges ahead in its slow though steady progress towards the firmer establishment of Bahá’u’lláh’s World Order throughout Australia and New Zealand.

With regard to your question as to the advisability of disclosing to an individual believer the contents of the NSA’s correspondence.  The Guardian thinks that although this cannot be considered as constituting an obligation which a believer can impose upon the national body, yet, it would seem highly advisable that the NSA should give a sympathetic consideration to any such request made to it by a believer.  This, he feels, would avoid giving the impression that the Assembly is working in an atmosphere of complete secrecy, and that it is motivated by dictatorial motives.  The final decision in such matters, however, is entirely left to the discretion of the NSA.  The basic principle that should always be remembered is that the NSA cannot be required to reveal to any outsider all the details concerning its work.  It may choose to do so if it wishes, but nobody has the right to enforce upon it any such action:  This is, of course the purely legal side of the question.  But a purely legalistic attitude in matters affecting the Cause, particularly now that the Faith is still in a state of infancy, is not only inadequate but fraught with unforeseen dangers and difficulties.  The individuals and Assemblies must learn to cooperate and to cooperate intelligently, if they desire to adequately discharge their duties and obligations towards the Faith.  And no such cooperation is possible without mutual confidence and trust.

With loving greetings from the Guardian to you and to the members of the NSA and with the assurance of his prayers on behalf of you all,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

I cannot refrain from expressing in person my deep sense of gratitude and indebtedness to the beloved co-workers in that land for their splendid achievements in both the teaching and administrative spheres of Bahá’í activity.  I feel truly proud of your accomplishments.  I will continue to supplicate for every one of you the Beloved’s imperishable blessings.

Rest assured and persevere.

Shoghi

26 September 1935 [Australia and New Zealand]

Beloved Bahá’í co-worker,

On Behalf of the Guardian I wish to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 8th of July last, with the enclosed copy of the minutes of the NSA of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand.  I wish, in particular, to express his gratification at the news of the success of the last meeting of your NSA held in Sydney.  It gives him, indeed, much pleasure and encouragement to realize that your Assembly meetings are conducted with such a good deal of order and efficiency, and above all, in such a perfect spirit of unity and fellowship—the few other obstacles and difficulties left, he feels confident, will in due time disappear.  The foundation has been now firmly laid down, and the work is bound to develop and expand.  The friends should, therefore, be confident, and should exert their utmost that the institutions they have so painstakingly and laboriously established should flourish and yield their fruit.

In connection with the NSA’s decision regarding the appointment of Mrs Axford and Mr Inman to keep records of Australian and New Zealand activities for the “Bahá’í World”, the Guardian wishes you to assure your fellow-members in the Assembly that he fully endorses their choice.  He also wishes you to impress the newly-appointed correspondents with the vital importance of their task, and to urge them to acquit themselves of it with thoroughness, efficiency and vigour.

Regarding dear Mr Hyde Dunn’s health, Shoghi Effendi is grieved beyond words to learn that he is growing so weak physically.  Will you kindly assure him, as well as Mrs Dunn, of his supplications for the amelioration of his health and for the complete restoration of his forces.

In closing will you also convey his love and greetings to the members of the NSA and assure them once more of his continued prayers for their welfare, protection and guidance.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

The detailed report of the activities of the National Assembly—the furthermost pillar of the Universal House of Justice which the high endeavours of the believers in Australia and New Zealand have reared—has filled my heart and soul with immense joy and gratitude.  The Beloved is surely watching over and continually blessing your splendid accomplishments, the plans you have conceived, the methods you have devised, the efforts you are exerting, the services which you have rendered.  I will continue to pray for the consolidation and uninterrupted expansion of your laudable activities in the service of so glorious and mighty a Cause.  Never relax nor despair.  The tender plant which your hands have raised and nurtured shall grow and will ultimately gather beneath its shadow the whole of that far-off and promising continent.

Persevere and be happy,

Shoghi

3 January 1936 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

Miss Effie Baker is leaving for Australia with the consent and full approval of the Guardian.

As you know, for over ten years she has been devotedly working for the Cause in Haifa, as keeper of the Western Pilgrim House and also as the custodian of the International Bahá’í Archives.

During this long period of service she has accomplished much for our beloved Cause, and she is now in need of some rest after so many years of strenuous labours.  She is going to join her mother, and will, it is hoped, prove of great help to the friends throughout Australia and New Zealand in both their teaching and administrative activities.

The Guardian hopes, therefore, that the friends will give her all the opportunity she needs to help in the extension and consolidation of the Cause throughout Australia and New Zealand.

He is entrusting Miss Baker with a beautiful and most precious present for the friends; it is one of the finest photographs of the Master which, he wishes your NSA to place in your National Bahá’í Archives.  He is, in addition, sending through her for the believers a bottle of attar of rose extracted by the friends in Persia.

With loving greetings and all good wishes for a most happy and prosperous New Year,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

13 March 1936 [Australia and New Zealand]

NATIONAL ASSEMBLYS PHOTOGRAPH FOR BAHAI WORLD ESSENTIAL.  MAIL BEFORE END APRIL TWO COPIES HOLY LAND SHOGHI

15 April 1936 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Miss Brooks,

On behalf of the Guardian I acknowledge with thanks and appreciation the receipt of your letter of March 12th with enclosure.  He is grateful for the warm assistance extended by your NSA to Miss Effie Baker, and hopes that she will be of valuable assistance to you all, specially to the friends in Melbourne.  The task of organising the believers in that center is no doubt a very responsible one, and the Guardian trusts that she will be able to fully acquit herself of it.

Regarding the “Herald of the South” magazine, Shoghi Effendi very much appreciates the fact that in spite of the many difficulties that your Assembly had to overcome this review is being regularly published, and that its standard is gradually improving.  He would call upon all the English-speaking friends to contribute, as often as they can, such articles for publication in that magazine as would serve to make it a more direct and effective teaching medium for the spread of the Cause throughout Australia and New Zealand.  He is advising the American NSA to specially ask the cooperation of the American believers for that purpose, and hopes that the response they will make to this call will be such as to further encourage you in your splendid efforts for the publication of this national organ of the Faith in Australia.

The Guardian would appreciate receiving detailed reports of the activities of the Local Assemblies, and would be very thankful if you send these to him as regularly as you can.

In closing may I ask you to convey his loving greetings to your distinguished fellow-members in the NSA and to assure each and all of them of his supplications for their welfare and guidance.  He also wishes you to express his best wishes to dear Father and Mrs Dunn, and tell them how happy he is to learn that they are keeping in good health.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

I am so glad to have received your letter and to have realised the progress of your activities.  I trust and pray that the work in which the National Assembly is so energetically and devotedly engaged may steadily expand and be further consolidated.  The teaching work is the corner-stone of its activities, the sole basis on which the administrative structure can flourish.  A strenuous, systematic and continuous effort should, both individually and collectively, be now exerted to

attain this supreme objective.  With a heart full of gratitude I will pray for the success of your endeavours,

Shoghi

26 April 1936 [Australia and New Zealand]

Beloved Bahá’í sister,

I am directed by the Guardian to thank you for your letter of the 30th March informing him of the date of Miss Kitty Carpenter’s arrival in Port Said.  You can be sure that the friends will be most delighted to meet her, and to render her journey to Haifa as safe and comfortable as possible.

The Guardian himself is eagerly looking forward to the pleasure of meeting her, and cherishes the hope that through this pilgrimage she may receive a renewed stimulus to better work for the promotion of the Faith upon her return home.

The Guardian has also noted with deep satisfaction the preparations made by your NSA for this year’s meeting in Melbourne.  He is praying that in spite of the difficulties you have encountered in carrying out your plans this important gathering of the Australian and New Zealand believers may prove another landmark in the history of the Cause throughout that Continent.

With loving greetings to you and your dear fellow-members,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless you and your dearly-loved co-workers and fellow-members, and enable you all to proclaim far and wide the essential truths of this glorious Revelation and to lay unassailable foundations for its institutions.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

12 May 1936 [Australia and New Zealand]

Beloved Bahá’í sister,

I am instructed by our beloved Guardian to inform you of the receipt of your very kind letter of April 16th, and also of the enclosed draft of … which you have been asked by your NSA to send to the International Fund in Haifa.  Will you kindly assure your fellow-members in that body, and through them the entire body of the believers in Australia and New Zealand of his genuine appreciation of this donation they have so generously made to the Cause.  Knowing the limited number of the believers in these two countries, and the many expenses they have so willingly incurred lately in connection with the maintenance of dear Mr and Mrs Dunn it is truly splendid that despite of all these necessary expenses they have found it possible to also contribute

to the International Fund of the Cause at its world-centre.  The sacrifices that have been made, the Guardian can well realize, have been really stupendous, and nothing short of Divine guidance and assistance could possibly enable the friends to bear them with such a wonderful spirit of heroism, and of self-giving.  Surely these notable accomplishments will stand as landmarks in the history of the Cause in Australia and New Zealand and will, even as a magnet, draw upon the believers in these regions the blessings and confirmations of Bahá’u’lláh.

May your undying love for Him and for His Cause continue for ever to quicken you, and all your fellow-believers in those regions, to put forth still greater effort to teach and establish His Faith.

With most loving Bahá’í greetings, and sincere good wishes, also to the members of the NSA,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

I deeply appreciate the many evidences of devotion, steadfastness and loyalty that distinguish the organized activities and the individual services of the believers in Australia and New Zealand.  I am profoundly touched by the messages which I receive from them, and feel deeply grateful for their determination to persevere and overcome all obstacles in their path.  I will pray for them from the depths of my heart.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

20 May 1936 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Mrs Axford,

Many thanks indeed from the Guardian for your welcome message of April 17th just received.  He would certainly be delighted to meet you in Haifa next year, and hopes that your visit to the Holy Shrines will give you a fresh vigour and renewed determination to carry on your work for the Cause.  He specially cherishes the hope that your trip to England will be of great benefit to you, and also to our English believers.  They will be only too happy to welcome you in their midst, and will thoroughly appreciate any assistance which you may give them during your sojourn in England.

The Guardian has learned with deep gratification of the news of the teaching work carried on by the Auckland believers.  He wishes you to kindly assure them all of his best wishes and fervent prayers for the success of their labours.  May Bahá’u’lláh bless, guide and strengthen them in every step they are taking for the spread of His Faith and the consolidation of its institutions in this far-off land.

Assuring you too of his special prayers on your behalf at the Holy Shrines, and with warmest greetings,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Assuring you of a most hearty welcome, and wishing you good health, happiness and success, your true brother,

Shoghi

10 June 1936 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Miss Brooks,

I am instructed by our beloved Guardian to acknowledge with deepest thanks the receipt of your letter dated March 30th written on behalf of the NSA of Australia and New Zealand.

He is rejoiced to learn of the projected formation of a Spiritual Assembly in Perth, and by the time this letter reaches you, the Assembly will have been duly constituted and will be functioning with the utmost unity, efficiency and vigour.

In this connection he wishes me to bring to your Assembly’s attention the necessity of their taking the necessary steps for the incorporation of the NSA This step, he feels, is of a vital importance to the further development of your Assembly, and will no doubt give it more stability and an added influence, specially in the eyes of the general public.

The Guardian would also advise that the Local Assemblies take a similar step, and obtain official recognition from the authorities.

In case the Auckland Assembly has been registered in the government, will you be so kind as to send him photostatic reproductions of any registration papers or documents that the Auckland friends may have obtained from the authorities, as he wishes to have them published in the next “Bahá’í World”.

As regards the photograph of your NSA; the Guardian wishes me to inform you that in going over the manuscript of the “Bahá’í World”, which was sent to him from the States, he found your Assembly’s picture already incorporated in it.

The manuscript has now been sent back to America and is awaiting publication.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

The incessant efforts so devotedly exerted by the members of your distinguished Assembly are assets that I greatly value and of which I am truly proud.  I will fervently pray for the extension of your activities and the fulfilment of your dearest hopes.  Rest assured and persevere,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

23 September 1936 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Miss Brooks,

Your detailed communication of July 14th written on behalf of the NSA of Australia and New Zealand together with its enclosures, have all duly arrived, and their contents read with deepest interest and appreciation by our beloved Guardian.  Also the photographs and blocks have duly reached him, as well as the Local Assembly reports sent under separate cover.  Please accept his most sincere and grateful thanks for them all.

Regarding the proposed News Letter to be issued every three months by your NSA; this, the Guardian feels, is a splendid idea and can render a unique and much needed help to your Assembly in its efforts for the establishment of the Administration and the more effective functioning of its institutions throughout Australia and New Zealand.  Not only it has the great advantage of keeping the friends well-informed about the events and developments in the Cause, but in addition can help in consolidating the organic unity of the believers by bringing them within the full orbit of the NSA’s jurisdiction.  It is hoped that this body will do its utmost to maintain the publication of this bulletin, and will make full use of this splendid medium for the further widening and consolidation of the foundations of the Local as well as National Assemblies.

As regards Mrs Bedikian’s request that you assist her in her project of uniting the believers through correspondence; this is of course a task which is quite secondary compared to the duties and responsibilities you are called upon to discharge as secretary of the NSA.  Your secretarial work in that body imposes upon you a paramount obligation which no other service can equal in importance.  All your other Bahá’í activities should be subordinated to your work in the NSA which is, undoubtedly, the most vital and urgent of them all.

Concerning the Greatest Name; this term refers both to “Alláh-u-Abhá” and to “Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá”.  The first is the form of Bahá’í greeting and should be used, while the other is an invocation, meaning “O Thou Glory of Glories”.  These two words are both referred to as the Greatest Name.

The Guardian, while fully aware of the difficulties, both financial and otherwise which your NSA is facing in connection with the publication

of the “Herald of the South”, feels, nevertheless, the urge to advise you to continue with this magazine and not to feel in the least discouraged if your efforts for meeting the expenses incurred for its printing and circulation, and for raising its literary standard, do not bring the expected results.  He very deeply values the self-sacrificing and sustained efforts exerted by your Assembly in this connection.  May Bahá’u’lláh richly reward you for all your meritorious endeavours.

With warmest Bahá’í greetings,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

The work in which your National Assembly is engaged, and which it is prosecuting with such fidelity, diligence and perseverance is near and dear to my heart.  You are laying an unassailable foundation for the erection of mighty Bahá’í institutions which future generations are destined to extend and perfect.  Your pioneer work is arduous and highly meritorious.  I feel proud of your achievements, realizing as I do the circumstances in which you labour.  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is watching over you and is well-pleased with your service.

Persevere and rest assured,

Affectionately,

Shoghi

25 September 1936 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Miss Brooks,

Our able and indefatigable co-worker, Mr Siegfried Schopflocher is on a tour to Australia, India and the Near East, and by the time this letter reaches you he may be already in your midst.

The Guardian wishes your NSA to arrange for him to visit all the centers in Australia and if possible New Zealand too, and to make every effort to render his stay amongst you as abundant in its results as possible.

Mr Schopflocher is surely known to you and to many friends in Australia.  He is truly one of the most distinguished believers in the West.  He has a deep knowledge of the Cause, and specially of the Administration, and has contributed a unique share towards its establishment and consolidation in the States.  For many years a member of the American NSA, he revealed such great qualities of heart and mind as very few of his fellow-members were able to manifest.  He supported valiantly and generously, and through both moral and financial means, the various institutions of the Cause, and in particular the institution of the Bahá’í Fund which, as you can well realise, is the foundation stone of every phase of Bahá’í activity.

In this connection it should be remembered that it was mainly due to his unfailing and most generous assistance that the Temple in Wilmette was built.  The friends owe him indeed a great debt, and can never be too grateful for what he has accomplished, and is still so splendidly accomplishing, for the Faith in the West.

The Guardian hopes, nay he feels confident, your Assembly, as well as all the friends will extend a most cordial welcome to this dear and distinguished Servant of the Cause, and will fully avail yourselves of this splendid opportunity that has been offered you to further enrich the field of your experiences in the Faith.  With warmest greetings,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

17 November 1936 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Miss Brooks,

On behalf of the Guardian I acknowledge with deepest thanks the receipt of your letter of the 17th October, and wish also to thank your Assembly for forwarding to him the photostatic reproduction of the registration certificate of the Assembly of Auckland.  He fervently hopes that the formation of the Declaration of Trust of the NSA will also be completed very soon, and that the difficulty you have encountered in this connection will be satisfactorily met and settled.  He also trusts that the delay caused in registering the Sydney Local Assembly will be overcome, and that you will immediately proceed with the formation of your National Declaration of Trust.  It is splendid, and a matter of deepest satisfaction to our beloved Guardian that in all these steps you are taking for the administrative development and consolidation of the Faith in Australia and New Zealand you are closely and faithfully following the example of America which, it should be admitted, occupies a pre-eminent rank among its sister communities in both the East and the West.

As regards the problem facing the NSA in connection with the representation of Perth at the next Annual Convention; the Guardian believes that the fact that a certain Assembly or community is not in a financial position to defray the expenses of its delegate or delegates does not constitute sufficient justification for depriving it from its sacred right of participation in the national elections and other activities of the Convention.  Every Assembly, no matter how poor, is entitled to take part in the Convention proceedings by sending one or more delegates to that meeting.  It is absolutely essential that this principle be clearly understood and faithfully applied by the friends.  Financial considerations can under no circumstances invalidate it, or allow the least compromise in its application.  It is the duty of every NSA to ensure that it will be carried out whenever the Convention elections are held.

With loving greetings,

Yours in the Guardian’s service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

I would be very pleased to receive two more copies of the registration form of the Auckland Assembly and three copies of the form of the Adelaide Assembly, some of which I shall place in the mansion of Bahá’u’lláh at Bahjí.  Will you also send me three copies of the registration form of every Assembly which will be incorporated in the future.  The foundations which your National Assembly is now laying with such assiduous care and exemplary loyalty constitute a service that is truly historic and is highly meritorious in the sight of God.  I feel deeply indebted to you for such splendid achievements.  Persevere and never lose heart.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

1 December 1936 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Miss Brooks,

The Guardian has just received the first issue of the newsletter published by the NSA of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand, and has read it all through with deepest pleasure and satisfaction.  He wishes me to ask you to transmit to your fellow-members in that body his warmest thanks for this new step they have taken for the further consolidation of the Administration in their country, as well as his most hearty congratulations upon the ever-increasing success that is attending their labours in this field.

It is his fervent hope that this organ your Assembly has initiated will fully serve its purpose by intensifying the spirit of cooperation between the NSA and all Local Assemblies, groups and isolated believers throughout Australia and New Zealand.  Such a medium, if properly utilized, can be of inestimable value to the believers by further enriching their knowledge and understanding of the principles and actual functioning of the Administrative order of the Faith, and by maintaining alive, nay intensifying in them the desire to promote and safeguard its interests.

He would, therefore, earnestly appeal to every believer in Australia and New Zealand to make full and continued use of this bulletin, and consider it as a most effective means to closer fellowship and to a deeper understanding of his duties and responsibilities as builder of the New World Order of Bahá’u’lláh.

He is ardently praying to the Almighty to ever bless and guide your Assembly’s endeavours in this connection,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

4 February 1937 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Miss Brooks,

I am instructed by the Guardian to inform you of the receipt of your letter of the 2nd January, and of the enclosed reports of the Adelaide and Auckland Spiritual Assemblies, and to renew to you, and through you to your fellow-members in the NSA, his grateful appreciation of the warm welcome you have so lovingly extended to that dear and distinguished servant of the Cause Mr Siegfried Schopflocher during his visit to Australia and New Zealand.  It is his fervent hope that the spirit his visit has released will long serve to sustain the friends in their heavy task of expanding the foundations of the Administrative Order throughout that continent.

Regarding Mr Bolton’s question as to whether the Guardian has given any instructions to the friends as to the best way to make their investments secure during the coming world crisis; I am instructed to inform you that no such directions have been given either to any individual believer or to any Assembly.  The only advice which the Guardian wishes to give is that whatever investment the friends make they should do it with the utmost caution, as economic and financial conditions are at present most unstable and even precarious.

Shoghi Effendi has been very deeply grieved to learn of … resignation from both the NSA and the Sydney Local Assembly, and of his request to leave altogether the Cause.  He wishes me, however, to assure your Assembly not to feel discouraged at this truly sad happening, but to confidently strive to bring him back into the community.  Should he persistently refuse to return, the best thing would be to leave him to himself, and to pray for him that Bahá’u’lláh may, in His infinite mercy and love, open again his eyes, and lead him out of the state of spiritual lethargy into which he has so sadly fallen.

With the assurance of the Guardian’s best wishes, and of his continual prayers for you, and for your distinguished fellow-members in the NSA,

Yours sincerely in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and prized co-worker:

I am delighted with the progress of your activities and with your splendid achievements in both the teaching and administrative spheres of Bahá’í service.  The National Spiritual Assembly is laying a firm and unassailable foundation for the administrative order of the Faith, and I wish to congratulate all its members and committees on the marvellous progress thus far achieved.  I will continue to pray for them from all my heart.  I will specially supplicate for the success of this coming convention.  May your hopes be fulfilled in every respect.

Gratefully and affectionately,

Shoghi

18 March 1937 [National Spiritual Assembly]

Dear Miss Brooks,

On behalf of the Guardian I acknowledge with thanks the receipt of your letter of the 17th February with the enclosed report of the Sydney Local Assembly, and wish to express his gratification at the news of the progress which that community is making in the teaching work.  He has noted with deep satisfaction that two new names have been added to their membership roll, and hopes that this step will mark the beginning of a new era of teaching expansion throughout that center.  He wishes you to kindly congratulate the Sydney Assembly for this splendid success which their teaching efforts have won, and to urge them to continue in their endeavours for the attraction and confirmation of New Souls.  May the Beloved aid, sustain and ever bless them in His service.

The Guardian is delighted to learn that the necessary arrangements for the holding of your next Annual Convention have been completed, and while he deplores the fact that owing to the long distances that separate the centers full attendance at this national gathering would not be feasible, he nevertheless hopes that it will be a most successful meeting, and will be marked all through by a perfect spirit of unity and fellowship.  He wishes you to assure the delegates of his prayers for the success of their deliberations, and to convey to them his warmest greetings and best wishes for a happy Riḍván.

Yours ever in His service,

H. Rabbani

P.S.  Shoghi Effendi wishes me to express his thanks for the four reproductions of the Adelaide Assembly registration form and trust which you had enclosed in your letter, one of which he has ordered to be placed in Bahá’u’lláh’s Mansion at Bahjí, and another one he wishes to incorporate in the manuscript of the next “Bahá’í World” (vol. VII). H.R.

Dear and valued co-worker:

I am truly gratified and delighted to receive so many evidences of the zeal, the loyalty and the devotion with which the believers in Australia and New Zealand are extending the range of their historic activities.  I feel deeply grateful to them.  I will most assuredly pray for them that the Beloved may bless their high endeavours and aid them to establish His Cause and proclaim far and wide its verities and teachings.

Shoghi

25 March 1937 [Australia and New Zealand]

ANNOUNCE BELIEVERS CELEBRATION MARRIAGE BELOVED GUARDIAN.  EVERLASTING HONOUR CONFERRED UPON HANDMAID OF BAHAULLAH RUHIYYIH KHANUM MISS MARY MAXWELL ZIAIYYIH MOTHER OF THE GUARDIAN

6 April 1937 [Australia and New Zealand]

ASSURE LOVED ONES AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND PROFOUND ABIDING APPRECIATION SHOGHI

29 August 1937 [Australia and New Zealand]

Beloved Bahá’í sister,

Your welcome communication of June 30th written on behalf of the NSA, as well as the accompanying papers and reports have all been received, and their contents read with keenest interest and appreciation by our beloved Guardian.

How rejoiced he feels to witness the increasing evidences of the growing progress of the community of the Australian and New Zealand believers.  The considerable work that they have accomplished during the last few years, in both the teaching and the administrative fields, could not indeed have been carried out without the wise and effective leadership of your NSA who, ever since its inception, has been functioning with a loyalty and efficiency that are truly remarkable.

The success of this year’s convention, as evidenced by the report of the proceedings you had sent, marks a further step in the process of steady consolidation through which the NSA is passing, and indicates how strong are the loyalty and attachment which it has awakened among the body of the believers throughout Australia and New Zealand.

It is the Guardian’s fervent hope that this confidence which your Assembly has inspired will be further strengthened during the course of this year, and that this in turn will deepen in the members the sense of the heavy responsibility they have to shoulder for the extension and consolidation of Bahá’í work throughout that continent.

Now as regards your Assembly’s question concerning a tie vote; as the point raised is a secondary matter it is left to the discretion of your NSA.

In the case of voting for less than nine individuals; it is not compulsory that a ballot paper should contain necessarily nine votes.  The individual voter may record less than nine names, if he chooses to do so.

With renewed greetings and thanks from the Guardian to you and your fellow-members in the NSA,

Yours ever in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

I am delighted with the manifold evidences of the progress achieved through the concerted efforts of the Australian and New Zealand believers under the able direction of their elected national representatives.  I feel proud of their accomplishments, highly approve of their plans and projected enterprises, feel grateful for the spirit that animates them, and cherish bright hopes for the extension of their activities.  May the Beloved guide their steps, cheer their hearts and enable them to diffuse far and wide the teachings and spirit of His Cause.

Gratefully and affectionately,

Shoghi

30 August 1937 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Miss Brooks,

Your letter of the 17th July enclosing Miss Ethel Dawe’s communication requesting permission to visit the Holy Land has been duly received by our beloved Guardian, and he has directed me to inform you that, at your suggestion, he has cabled Miss Dawe directly to London, extending to her a hearty welcome to visit the Holy Shrines in the next fall.

He hopes that in the meantime nothing will happen to alter or upset her plans, and that she will be given the privilege and joy of undertaking this much-desired pilgrimage to Haifa.

Hoping this will find you and all the Adelaide friends in the best of health, and with loving greetings to you and to them,

Yours ever in the Cause,

H. Rabbani

Wishing you success from all my heart, and assuring you of my continued prayers for the realisation of your highest hopes,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

31 January 1938 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Miss Brooks,

The Guardian wishes me to express his loving thanks for your letter of the third enclosing the half-yearly reports of the Perth and Auckland Spiritual Assemblies, all of which he has been delighted to read.

He wishes you to write the Auckland Assembly assuring them of his approval of the request they have made on behalf of Miss Kitty Carpenter for permission to visit Haifa.  He has every hope that through this pilgrimage she will be greatly refreshed and strengthened spiritually, and will upon her return

home impart to the Friends in New Zealand some measure of the inspiration she will gain through close contact with the Holy Shrines.

Before closing the Guardian also wishes me to express the hope that your NSA’s plan of holding a meeting in Melbourne during the course of this year may be realized, and that the occasion may serve to lend a fresh impetus to the growth of the Cause in that city.  He is frequently praying for the success of your Assembly’s efforts in this connection.

Reciprocating your greetings and with renewed and warmest thanks,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear co-worker:

The work in which you and your dear fellow members are so devotedly, so loyally and diligently engaged, is progressing in a manner that is highly gratifying and merits the highest praise.  I feel increasingly proud of, and thankful for the achievements that signalize the rise of the Administrative Order of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh in Australia and New Zealand.

Generations yet unborn will extol those qualities and virtues that have enabled you all to render such great services to our beloved Cause.

Persevere, be happy and confident.

Shoghi

30 March 1938 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Miss Brooks,

The Guardian was indeed pleased to receive your letter of the 16th informing him of Miss Dawe’s safe arrival in Australia, and of the receipt of the precious relic which he had asked her to present to your NSA for preservation in your National Archives.

He wishes you to assure your fellow members of his full approval of their suggestion to place this sacred relic in a little miniature frame case, and in such a manner as to keep the paper containing it from becoming soiled and frayed with constant handling.

In connection with the article published in the October number of the “Herald of the South” entitled “Above the Mists”; the Guardian wishes the believers to disregard such subjects as psychic practices and phenomena, for these besides not being authenticated by the Writings of the Founders of the Faith, pertain mostly to the domain of conjectures.  The magazine of the “Herald of the South” should be devoted to the study and presentation of those subjects that reflect the spirit of the teachings, and which as such are worthy of consideration by the believers.  As the national organ of the Australian and New Zealand friends its main function is to assist in disseminating the knowledge of the Cause, and thus develop into an effective teaching medium.

This is the goal which the editors should have constantly in mind, and which they should endeavour to attain through the best possible means they can devise at present.

The Guardian wishes me in closing to express his thanks for sending him the reproductions of the Declaration of Trust certificate of your NSA, and for the reports of the Adelaide and Sydney Assemblies, as well as the photograph and report of the Yerrinbool Summer-School.

With his loving greetings to you and to your fellow-members in the NSA,

Yours ever in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

I am so touched by the repeated and compelling evidences of the magnificent spirit that animates my dearly-beloved co-workers in Australia and New Zealand.  The record of their manifold accomplishments warms my heart and cheers my spirit.  The Beloved is truly pleased with them and the Almighty will surely bless and reinforce their high endeavours.  May their highest and dearest hopes be fulfilled in His service,

Shoghi

26 April 1938 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í friend,

I am directed by our beloved Guardian to convey his thanks to you for your letter of the 13th and to express his profound and loving appreciation of the contribution you have enclosed in the name of the National Assembly of Australia and New Zealand toward the International Fund of the Cause.  I am sending herewith a separate receipt duly signed by him for your files.  The spirit of true sacrifice and devotion which this offering represents is indeed a source of deepest satisfaction to the Guardian and he will certainly pray that, as the years go by, it may increasingly gain in strength, and become so intensified as to enable the believers throughout Australia and New Zealand to accomplish such deeds of service as would make them the object of the admiration and envy of all their sister communities in both Europe and America.  Already the signs of tremendous vitality which the Australian and New Zealand Bahá’í community is evincing are sufficiently numerous to justify such high hopes, and augur well for the glorious future it is destined to have.  The news of the safe arrival of Miss Dawe to Australia and of the inspiration the friends have gained through sharing the impressions of her memorable pilgrimage to the Holy Land is yet another source of deep gratification to the Guardian.  He fervently hopes that the way may be opened for most of our Australian and New Zealand friends to visit the Holy Shrines in the not distant future.

With seasons best greetings and with renewed thanks.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker,

I am deeply impressed by the splendid progress that is being achieved along such sound lines and in so many spheres of Bahá’í activity by the believers in Australia and New Zealand.  My heart overflows with love and gratitude to them all and feels increasingly proud of their noble achievements.  I appeal to them all to persevere and surmount every obstacle in their path.

Shoghi

28 April 1938 [Australia and New Zealand]

HOLY MOTHER MUNIRIH KHANUM ASCENDED ABHA KINGDOM SUSPEND RIDVAN FESTIVITIES HOLD BEFITTING MEMORIAL GATHERINGS.  SHOGHI

22 June 1938 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

I am instructed by our beloved Guardian to express his thanks for your communication of May 14th, with the enclosed copy of the resolutions passed by the Australian and New Zealand NSA in its April meeting held in Melbourne.  He has also noted with deep satisfaction the program of the public meetings you had arranged on that occasion, and is very much heartened to know that the response from the public has been most genuine and quite beyond your expectations.

The general situation of the Cause in Melbourne, however, has caused immense grief to his heart, specially as the believers themselves are losing interest and seem to be drifting away.  The decision taken by your Assembly to hold the next Annual Convention there, with the view of encouraging and guiding the friends to reorganise their activities, and also in order to stimulate the progress of the teaching work in that centre is most splendid.  The Guardian would strongly advise that in the meantime every effort be exerted, through such means as the NSA may find feasible and effective, to bring back into the community those members who have already left, and to take immediate measures to discourage those who contemplate doing so.

With reference to Miss Martha Root’s projected teaching trip to your shores; the Guardian highly appreciates the cordial invitation extended to her by your Assembly, and has every hope that through her splendid zeal, mature and wide experience in the teaching field, she will be able to lend an unprecedented impetus to the expansion and consolidation of the teaching work throughout Australia and New Zealand during this coming winter.

In closing I wish to convey through you to the newly-elected NSA the Guardian’s heartfelt congratulations and sincere greetings and to assure them of his prayers, that throughout their new term of office, they may be assisted in acquitting themselves befittingly of their task.

Also kindly extend to them his loving thanks for the expression of deep sympathy which they have conveyed to him on their behalf and in the name of the believers in New Zealand and Australia in the passing away of the Holy Mother, Munírih Khánum.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers,

I truly admire the manner in which the national representatives of the believers of Australia and New Zealand are discharging their responsibilities and fulfilling their vital and manifold functions.  I, moreover, feel eternally thankful for the spirit which the believers themselves manifest, the support they extend to them, the vigilance, steadfastness, and self-sacrifice that distinguish the record of their services.  The foundations they are laying will endure and broaden as the days go by, and the institutions they are erecting will multiply a thousandfold if they persevere in the path they are now treading.  The blessings of the Abhá Beauty will enable them to achieve still greater victories if they refuse to hesitate and falter.

Gratefully,

Shoghi

2 November 1938 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Miss Brooks,

I am directed by the Guardian to acknowledge with thanks your Assembly’s communication of October 6th.

Regarding the need you have expressed for a small, inexpensive prayer book for use by the friends in Australia and New Zealand; he views with favour the idea, but does not advise the use of the translations given in the Bahá’í Prayer Book, as these are mostly incorrect and inadequate renderings.  He wishes you to preferably select from the book “Prayers and Meditations”, recently published in America, suitable prayers for a small edition.

The Guardian wishes me to express his gratification at the news of the enrolment of three new members in the Sydney Bahá’í group, and of two others in the Auckland community.  He will pray that these new believers may continue deepening in their faith, and in their understanding of the Teachings, and that each of them may arise and lend every assistance in his power to the further expansion and firmer consolidation of the Faith in that far-off continent.

The three reproductions of the Sydney Registration Certificate which you have mailed under separate cover have been duly received, and one of them will shortly be placed in the Mansion at Bahjí.

The projected visit of Miss Martha Root to your shores next winter, the Guardian hopes, will as on her previous journeys serve to impart a fresh stimulus to the friends in Australia and New Zealand and inspire them with a renewed determination to re-consecrate themselves to the service of the Cause.  Your Assembly should extend to her a warm welcome and every support she requires for the success of her mission.  May her noble endeavours, seconded by the energetic and diligent efforts of the believers, result in inaugurating a new era of teaching expansion throughout the Australian continent.

With warmest greetings from the Guardian,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers:

The visit of our dear and cherished sister and exemplary co-worker, Martha, to your shores is approaching and I feel confident that her collaboration with you will lend an unprecedented impetus to the advancement of the Faith.  Laden with laurels, animated by an unquenchable spirit, armed with a faith that none can surpass, she will, I feel sure, contribute magnificently to the magnificent work her co-workers in Australia and New Zealand have so valiantly achieved and are so energetically and methodically extending.  My prayers for you and for her will continue to be offered with a heart filled with pride, joy and gratitude.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

1938 [Australia and New Zealand]

BELOVED MARTHA SOON JOINING YOU CONFIDENT BELIEVERS JOYOUS WELCOME REDOUBLED EFFORTS SHOGHI

15 February 1939 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Miss Brooks,

Your letter of January 17, enclosing one addressed to the Guardian by the Sydney Spiritual Assembly, have both duly arrived, and their contents read by him with deepest satisfaction and with feelings of unbounded gratitude.  He is writing the Sydney Assembly separately, assuring them that Miss Davis, who is on a world tour, would be most welcome to visit the Holy Shrines in Haifa and Bahjí, but he himself is exceedingly sorry not to be able to meet her, as he is at present away from the Holy Land, and may not be back to Haifa before some time.  He hopes, nevertheless, Miss Davis will benefit from her close contact

with the Sacred Places of the Faith, and will gain such experiences as will stimulate still further her interest in the Cause and lead her gradually to fully and unreservedly embrace its truth.  Regarding the extensive preparations made by the NSA in connection with the teaching travels of our indefatigable and highly-esteemed Bahá’í sister, Miss Martha Root, throughout Australia and New Zealand; the Guardian feels truly delighted and profoundly grateful to your Assembly for the befitting welcome you have extended to her, and for the arrangements you have made for her to broadcast her speeches, and to contact as many individuals and organisations as her time and health permit.  You are certainly fully availing yourself of the opportunity of her presence in your midst to further intensify the campaign of teaching throughout Australia, and you can rest assured that Bahá’u’lláh will reinforce and bless your endeavours for the accomplishment of so vital and so sacred a task.

The draft for thirty pounds, which you had enclosed in your letter, representing the contribution of the believers of Australia and New Zealand toward the International Fund of the Cause, has been received with grateful appreciation by our beloved Guardian, and he wishes your Assembly to kindly convey to all the friends his deep sense of gratitude, as well as his profound admiration, for the exemplary devotion and loyal attachment to the Cause that has prompted them to make such generous donation.

With renewed and heartfelt thanks for your very kind letter, and reciprocating your greetings,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear beloved co-workers:

I am so glad and grateful for the plans you have conceived for the reception and organisation of the work of Martha during her visit to your shores.  The community of the believers in Australia and New Zealand is making remarkable progress in every phase of its activities and deserves the highest praise in its magnificent and incessant labours.  I am proud of the quality of its faith and range of its achievements.  May the Beloved infuse into each one of its members a greater measure of His power and of His spirit that will enable them to scale nobler heights in their historic service to His Cause!

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

17 March 1939 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Miss Brooks,

Your communication of February the 12th addressed to our beloved Guardian, informing him of Martha’s safe arrival in Australia, has been received, and he was made truly happy to know how cordially and befittingly

she had been welcomed by the friends.  The wide acclamation with which you have greeted her upon her arrival, and the kind solicitude and warm affection you have displayed towards her by arranging for dear Dr Bolton to give her the necessary treatment soon after her landing in Adelaide—such spontaneous expressions of your deep set admiration and love for this valiant and indefatigable star-servant of the Cause must have surely greatly warmed and touched her heart.

Your NSA, no less than the Local Assemblies of Perth and Adelaide, has undoubtedly spared no effort to use her presence as an opportunity for giving the Faith every publicity possible through both the radio and the press.  It is to be hoped that before long the results of this campaign of publicity will be made apparent, and a good number of sincere and intelligent inquirers will be led to investigate and seriously study the Teachings, and enrol later on in the Community.

While the Guardian wishes the friends to take full advantage of Martha’s presence and invite her to speak and teach as frequently as her energies permit, yet he would advise that they should also take great care lest her health be seriously impaired through overwork, specially as she is already so frail, having extensively travelled and tirelessly laboured for a whole year throughout India.  He would further entreat the believers to join him in ardently supplicating Bahá’u’lláh to continue bestowing upon our well-beloved and distinguished sister all the strength and energy that she requires for the continuation and successful termination of her teaching tour throughout Australia and New Zealand.

With reference to Mr and Mrs Bolton’s request for permission to visit Haifa during next October or November, the Guardian wishes to assure them that they would be most welcome to undertake this pilgrimage through which, he hopes, they will get refreshed spiritually and filled with renewed vigour and added determination to labour for the further promotion of the Faith upon their return home.  With the season’s best greetings to you and all the friends,

Yours ever in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

How deeply I appreciate what you and your dear collaborators are achieving for the success of Martha’s work amidst you.  My heart brims over with gratitude for the manner in which you approach your task, discharge your duties and extend the range of your local and national activities.  With your deeds you are demonstrating in that far-off continent what the power of the Greatest Name can achieve when it operates through channels that are pure and receptive to its

outpouring grace.  My prayers are being continually offered for you all.  Rest assured and be happy.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

12 July 1939 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Miss Brooks,

On behalf of our beloved Guardian I acknowledge with thanks the receipt of your deeply-appreciated message written on behalf of our Australian NSA and of various materials, including Assembly reports and photographs of the Yerrinbool Summer School, mailed under separate cover, all of which reached him safely, and for which kindly convey his heart’s deepest gratitude to your Assembly.

He has read with great pleasure the account of Miss Root’s last few weeks in Australia, and feels exceedingly gratified and thankful at this renewed evidence of the loving hospitality so spontaneously and generously extended to her by all the friends in each centre she visited, and wishes me in particular, to convey to you and to dear Mrs Hawthorne his special thanks for having kindly offered to accompany our precious and well-beloved sister throughout the last stages of her journey to Melbourne and Tasmania.  May Bahá’u’lláh richly reward you with His choicest blessings for all the tender care and affection you lavished upon her all through her teaching itinerary, and may He sustain, strengthen and guide you in your endeavours to further enrich and consolidate the notable teaching results she was able to accomplish in your midst during all these months.

The Guardian was highly encouraged to hear of the news of the confirmation of Miss Lamprill’s friend, and earnestly hopes and prays that through the combined, sustained and loving exertions of these two dear believers the Cause will gradually make headway in Hobart, and a group of well-confirmed souls will soon be established in that centre.  Kindly convey to these friends the expression of his warmest good wishes for the extension and success of their labours in service to our beloved Faith, and do urge them whole-heartedly, joyously and confidently persevere in their task of promulgating the message in Hobart.

With regard to Mrs Routh’s request for permission to visit Haifa; much as the Guardian desires her to undertake such longed for visit to the Holy Shrines, he feels that owing to the continued disturbances agitating the Holy Land, and which give no sign of abating, it would be inadvisable for her to come at such a dangerous time.  He hopes some day when the situation will have returned to normal in Palestine, she will have an opportunity of undertaking this pilgrimage.

Assuring you, and your newly-elected fellow-members in the NSA of his continued prayers and best wishes, and with affectionate greetings to all the friends,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers,

The recent evidences of your marvellous activities in the service of our beloved Faith have brought infinite joy to my heart.  The institutions you are so devotedly and laboriously erecting, multiplying and perfecting, notwithstanding your limited numbers, the scarcity of Bahá’í teachers and proper facilities, and despite your limited resources and the varied obstacles in your way, attest the splendid progress you have achieved and augur well for the future of your historic work in His service.  The summer-school is but one of those institutions which you have established with such a rare spirit of devotion, such magnificent loyalty and such assiduous care.  The foundation you have laid is broad, solid and unassailable.  The rising generation who will build upon it, will extol your virtues, ennoble your task, preserve the record of your acts, and transmit to posterity the great tradition which you are now so happily and nobly establishing.  My heart brims over with gratitude for all that you are achieving, and is filled with hopes for all that you will achieve in the near and distant future.  Perseverance, fidelity, redoubled effort, will enable you to reap a rich harvest and attain your shining goal.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

5 December 1939 [Australia and New Zealand]

REMAINS PUREST BRANCH AND ABDULBAHAS MOTHER MOVED PROXIMITY RESTING PLACE GREATEST HOLY LEAF INFORM BELIEVERS

4 April 1940 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

The Guardian wishes me to gratefully acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated February 22nd, and of the sum of thirty pounds which you had been asked by the NSA of Australia and New Zealand to forward to him as a contribution made by them in the name of our Australian and New Zealand believers to the International Fund in Haifa.

Kindly assure your fellow-members in the NSA, and through them the friends in that land of his loving appreciation of their donation, which he has graciously accepted, and will use for the furtherance of the international interests of the Faith.

I take this opportunity of conveying to you also his warmest New Year greetings, and of assuring you of his ardent prayers for your continued guidance and success in your Services to the Cause, and for the welfare and protection of our dear Australian and New Zealand believers in these dark and indeed distressing days.

Thanking you again for your loving message,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

May the Almighty pour forth His manifold blessing upon you and your dear and devoted co-workers, and aid you all to hold aloft the banner of the Faith in these dark days of stress and peril, and assist you to fulfil your dearest hopes in His service,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

4 November 1940 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Mrs Jackman,

The Guardian wishes me to express his deep regret at this tardy acknowledgment of your letter of June 6th received some time ago.

The cheque for five pounds which you had enclosed representing the NSA’s donation to the fund for our distressed ‘Ishqábád believers has also safely arrived, and the sum will, without further delay, be transmitted to Írán.

This welcome and striking evidence of your solicitude for the suffering brethren in a land so distant from your shores cannot indeed but profoundly move them, and deepen their consciousness of the bonds of close solidarity and fellowship that so firmly knit together the component parts of the Bahá’í world.  Regarding the tracts and publications which your NSA or individual believers in Australia and New Zealand occasionally receive from Ahmad Sohrab and the New History Society; the Guardian would advise the friends to completely disregard such publications.  Any attempt to refute such unfounded attacks on the Cause and the Administrative Order, he feels, would be sheer waste of time and energy, as Ahmad Sohrab’s efforts are doomed to failure.

With the renewed assurances of his prayers on behalf of the NSA and with loving greetings to you all,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

May the Almighty reward you all a thousandfold for your self-sacrificing efforts, your unfailing solicitude for the interests of the Faith, and your devotion and perseverance in the path of Bahá’í service.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

14 November 1940 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Miss Brooks,

Your communications dated April 22nd and August 23rd written on behalf of the NSA of Australia and New Zealand with the enclosed reports have all been safely received, and their contents noted with feelings of deepest satisfaction and gratitude by our beloved Guardian.

Also he has received the copy of the “Mittagong Star”, the reproduction of registration certificate, the three snaps and the three photographs which you had mailed under separate cover, for all of which he wishes you to heartily thank the NSA on his behalf.

He wishes you, in particular, to convey his warmest greetings and congratulations to the members of the newly-elected NSA, whose names he has been very pleased to note, and to assure them of his prayers for their guidance and confirmation in the discharge of their heavy and sacred duties and responsibilities throughout this year.  Despite the sorrow and distress created by the war, and the heavy sacrifices it is increasingly imposing upon the community of the faithful throughout Australia and New Zealand, he confidently hopes that your Assembly, with the help and support of all the believers in that land, will continue prosecuting, with the same devoted zeal, resourcefulness and determination as before, its twofold task of extending the scope of the teaching work, and of the further consolidating the foundations of the Administration.  The unity and efficiency with which it has been functioning in the past year, as attested by the rich record of its accomplishments, indeed augur well for the future of its activities, and it is the Guardian’s fervent hope that, notwithstanding the delay and dislocation which the prosecution of the war has inevitably occasioned, it will continue to advance and prosper, and receive unforeseen opportunities of spreading and of strengthening the foundations of the Cause throughout that far-off Continent.  In this time of world calamity his thoughts and prayers are often with our dearly-beloved friends in Australia and New Zealand, and he is ardently supplicating Bahá’u’lláh, on their behalf, that He may bestow upon them such measure of His guidance, protection and strength as would enable them to courageously and successfully meet the tests and trials of the days ahead.

Assuring you, in closing, of his special prayers on your own behalf, and reciprocating your greetings,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear co-worker:

The report of your activities and of those of your fellow-workers, undertaken at such a time, and despite such difficulties, and with such a courage, devotion, determination, thoroughness and fidelity, deserves indeed the highest praise

and constitutes a powerful evidence of the unconquerable Spirit, and the ever-extending range and the ever-deepening influence of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh.  Your work is surely blessed by Him, and your fellow-labourers in distant lands derive great encouragement and inspiration from the incessant and remarkable efforts you are so devotedly exerting.  Persevere and rest assured that I will, with increasing fervour, pray on your behalf at the Holy Shrines.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

3 January 1941 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Miss Brooks,

At the Guardian’s direction I beg to acknowledge the receipt of your communication of December 17th just arrived, together with the copy of the resolutions passed by the NSA of Australia and New Zealand in its August meeting, as well as the copy of the statement on the “Bahá’í Attitude to War” recently issued by your Assembly.  He found that statement most satisfactory both in its form and in its clear and comprehensive presentation of the underlying principles governing the collective attitude of the believers in this vital issue of the hour.

The friends should indeed make a careful study of this statement, so as to be able to intelligently and correctly answer any questions put to them either by the authorities or individual enquirers.

The Guardian has been particularly pleased to note that the response of the Prime Minister, and of the Premier of Victoria and other ministers to whom you had submitted a copy of the above statement has been so cordial, and he feels relieved to know that through this action of your Assembly any doubts or misapprehensions regarding the attitude of the Bahá’ís to war have been dispelled, and that the authorities feel, as a result, much more favourable towards the Cause, now that they know for themselves that it is certainly non-political in character and that it enjoins absolute loyalty and obedience to the Government.

This opportunity your Assembly has had of establishing direct contact with the authorities is indeed a step of vital significance to the Cause in Australia and New Zealand, and is bound to pave the way for its ultimate recognition as an independent religious Faith, entitled to the same rights and privileges which other religious bodies and institutions enjoy in that land.

The Guardian wishes me in closing to express his deepfelt appreciation of your teaching services in Melbourne and Hobart, in which cities you seem to have accomplished such splendid work, both in introducing the Cause to the general public and by assisting the friends in better conducting their teaching and administrative activities.

May the Beloved ever bless and guide your efforts, and may He also strengthen and confirm your fellow-members in the NSA, in the discharge of their arduous duties and responsibilities.  To you and to them all he sends his warmest greetings,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear co-workers:

The manner and spirit in which the dearly-beloved friends in Australia and New Zealand are discharging their multifarious and sacred responsibilities, in these days of strife and peril, augur well for the future of their mission in that far-off continent.  The sound lines along which the administration of the Faith is evolving, the courage and fidelity with which they defend the integrity and assert the claims, and proclaim the verities of their beloved Cause are evidences of their onward march and the potentialities with which they are endowed.  I rejoice and am thankful.  I will continue to pray and seek for them still greater blessings.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

17 February 1941 [Australia and New Zealand]

INEXPRESSIBLY GRIEVED LOSS HEROIC PIONEER WHOSE OUTSTANDING ACHIEVEMENTS EXEMPLARY SPIRIT SHED IMPERISHABLE LUSTRE ANNALS FORMATIVE PERIOD FAITH BAHAULLAH.  CONCOURSE ON HIGH EXTOL HIS VIRTUES MAGNIFY HIS ACCOMPLISHMENTS WELCOME HIS ADMISSION THEIR RANKS.  ADVISE HOLD BEFITTING MEMORIAL GATHERINGS AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND ASSURE MOTHER DUNN FRIENDS PROFOUND SYMPATHY SPECIAL FERVENT PRAYERS SHOGHI RABBANI

24 February 1941 [Australia and New Zealand]

CABLING FIFTY POUNDS MY CONTRIBUTION CONSTRUCTION TOMB FATHER DUNN CABLE WHETHER MY CABLE CONDOLENCE REACHED YOU LOVE SHOGHI RABBANI

19 April 1941 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

Shoghi Effendi has instructed me to answer your letter of March 16th, 1941.  He was pleased to learn that Mother Dunn has accepted in such a noble and exemplary Bahá’í spirit the loss of dear Father Dunn, and that the friends of Sydney are preparing a full description of his death and the funeral.  The

Guardian would like very much to receive all such histories and reports for the next volume of “Bahá’í World”.  He would also like you to send him three good photographs of Father Dunn and some of his grave and tombstone—whenever the latter are available.

The truly remarkable services of Hyde Dunn will never be forgotten.  They have added a golden page to the history of the Formative period of our Faith.  The whole-hearted response to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s call, raised more than twenty years ago, which he and Mother Dunn made; their quiet and unassuming sacrifices for the Cause; the wisdom and permanence with which he laid the foundations of the work in Australia and New Zealand; and the faithful love with which both of these noble souls tended the growing institutions of the Faith—all constitute a land mark in the victorious progress of the Faith.  He is indeed the spiritual conqueror of that continent!

The Guardian was very interested in your Assembly’s recent statement published in the January issue of “Bahá’í Quarterly”.  So much so that he felt impelled to have the American NSA publish it in “Bahá’í News” and also have it read at the annual Convention.  He feels that in excellent form you have presented the very essence of the Bahá’í attitude on these matters.  This has further strengthened his conviction that the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand display a remarkable soundness in their views on all matters concerning the Faith, a characteristic which greatly pleases him.

Concerning your question whether a Bahá’í Burial Service can be conducted for non-Bahá’ís if requested by them; if non-Bahá’ís desire that the believers should conduct a service there is no objection at all.

The contemplated teaching trip of Miss Brooks, Mrs Hawthorne and Mrs Moffitt to Queensland, meets with the Guardian’s whole-hearted approval.  He will pray in the Holy Shrines that its outcome will be richly blessed and fruitful.

He was very sorry to learn that Miss Stevenson has passed on.  He will pray for her joy and advancement in the Worlds beyond.  She had the great honour and blessing of being the first New Zealand believer and her reward must be great.

With the assurance of Shoghi Effendi’s most loving prayers for you all and with Bahá’í greetings,

Yours in His service,

R. Rabbani

P.S:  He wishes me also to thank you for the Naw-Rúz and Riḍván greetings from all the dear friends in Australia and New Zealand.

Dear and valued co-workers:

The community of the Most Great Name in those far-off islands has lost a great leader, a stalwart upholder of the New World Order of Bahá’u’lláh.  The influence he has exercised will however continue to live, and the example he has set will inspire the rising generation to perform deeds as great and brilliant as those which will ever remain associated with his name.  Our dear friend, Mr Hyde Dunn, will, from his exalted station intercede on your behalf, and you should, on your part strive to emulate one whom Bahá’í historians will recognise and acclaim as Australia’s spiritual Conqueror.  I will pray for his dear spiritual children from the depths of my heart.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

The passing of yet another staunch and indefatigable worker, Miss Stevenson, constitutes yet another loss to the believers in that continent.  The work which that exemplary pioneer has achieved however is imperishable.  Kindly assure her relatives of my deepfelt sympathy.

Shoghi

19 April 1941 [Australia and New Zealand]

THRILLED EXEMPLARY ATTITUDE REFLECTED, NOBLY CONCEIVED, UNQUESTIONABLY INSPIRED STATEMENT IN JANUARY BAHAI QUARTERLY ARRANGING ITS PUBLICATION AMERICAN BAHAI NEWS AND PERSIAN ENGLISH HAIFA NEWSLETTERS HEARTFELT CONGRATULATIONS SHOGHI RABBANI

11 May 1941 [Australia and New Zealand]

CONGRATULATE AXFORD PRAYING WORK BRISBANE LOVE SHOGHI RABBANI

30 July 1941 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The Guardian has instructed me to answer your welcome letter to him of June 20th, with all its good news.

The response your teaching work met with in Brisbane is truly most encouraging and shows a remarkable receptivity on the part of the people of Australia to the Divine Message.  Shoghi Effendi hopes that you will be able to undertake many such trips in furtherance of the teaching work and that an increasing number of the friends will do likewise.

Indeed all the news that comes from the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand bears witness to the soundness of their understanding of the teachings, their loyalty and devotion to the Cause and its laws, and the excellence of their faith itself.

The Guardian has recently written a long general letter to the Bahá’ís of the West.  Owing to its length and the difficulty of sending a large number of manuscripts abroad at such a time, he has requested the NSA of America to forward it to the other National Spiritual Assemblies.  He trusts it will soon reach you.

The news received of the Winter session of the Yerrinbool school was very encouraging.

Shoghi Effendi hopes that many of these points of community contact, such as school sessions, teaching conferences—whatever form of activity is most feasible—will be increasingly inaugurated, as they are of vital importance in fostering the work of the Cause.

He most deeply appreciates your own untiring services in promotion of the Faith in all its branches.  You may rest assured that he will often pray for you, and he will also pray for the confirmation of those souls whom you and Mrs Hawthorne attracted during your recent trip.

With Bahá’í love,

Yours in His service,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  The Guardian has not yet received the record of Martha’s voice nor photographs of Father Dunn.  Will you kindly send one copy of each to him as soon as convenient.  R.R.

Dear and valued co-workers:

It is indeed thrilling to note the rapidity and soundness with which the flourishing Bahá’í community in that far-off land is establishing the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh, is fearlessly proclaiming its truths, upholding its verities and standards, multiplying its institutions, defending its interests, disseminating its literature, and exemplifying its invincible power and spirit.  I rejoice, feel proud and am eternally grateful.  I cannot but pray, with redoubled fervour, to Him Who so manifestly guides and sustains you, to increase your numbers, to remove every barrier that obstructs your path, to safeguard your unity, to bless your undertakings and to enable you to demonstrate, afresh and with still greater force, the reality of the faith that animates you in the discharge of your sacred duties.

Be assured and persevere.

Shoghi

1 August 1941 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The Guardian has instructed me to answer your welcome letter to him of July 8th.

He was delighted to hear of the progress of the work in your center, as well as your additional report of the fine teaching trip which Miss Hilda Brooks, Mrs Moffitt and Mrs Routh undertook in Brisbane.  A detailed account of the work of Miss Brooks was received from her a short time ago.  Shoghi Effendi also wishes to express his appreciation for the generous support the NSA of Australia and New Zealand is giving the International Fund.  Enclosed is a receipt for the sum you sent.

He will be most interested to receive pictures of Father Dunn’s completed grave, whenever circumstances have enabled the friends to complete it, for use in the next “Bahá’í World”.

The Cause in Australia and New Zealand seems, from all reports received, to be going ahead by leaps and bounds.  The people also appear to be more receptive to the teachings than before.  This greatly heartens Shoghi Effendi, as he has the brightest hopes for the future part the Bahá’ís of that continent will play in the ordering of world-wide Bahá’í affairs.  They have displayed a soundness of understanding of the Teachings, a devotion, balance, and sanity that he greatly admires.  His ardent prayers are often with them and their wonderful work.

He deeply appreciates your own untiring efforts to promote the Faith, and hopes you will write and inform him of the success of the new “Winter School”, an undertaking which he hopes will thrive and spread to other centers.

Assuring you of his most loving prayers,

Yours, in service to our beloved Faith,

R. Rabbani

Dear co-worker:

The news conveyed by your letter has cheered me, and served to remind me of the constancy, the exemplary activities, the marvellous spirit, evinced by the dear friends in that far-off continent.  I will continue to pray from the depths of my heart that the Beloved may watch over you and your valiant collaborators, deepen your understanding of the essentials and requirements of His Faith, extend His assistance to you, and aid you to fulfil your great and splendid mission.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

4 November 1941 [Australia and New Zealand]

RUHI AFNANS SISTER MARRIED COVENANT BREAKER HER FAMILY SUPPORT HER ACTION EXCOMMUNICATION UNAVOIDABLE SHOGHI RABBANI

18 November 1941 [Australia and New Zealand]

DEEPLY APPRECIATE SPIRIT PROMPTING RESPONSE DEEPEST LOVE SHOGHI RABBANI

26 December 1941 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

The Guardian has instructed me to answer your letters dated September 23rd and October 1st, and to acknowledge the receipt of the manuscript you sent for “Bahá’í World” vol. IX, also the photographs of Father Dunn’s home and his own picture.

Regarding the questions you asked in your letter ….

No.1.  Confucius was not a Prophet, so it is quite correct to say he is the founder of a moral system and a great reformer.

No.2.  The Buddha was a Manifestation of God, like Christ, but his followers do not possess his authentic writings.

No.3.  Zoroaster was not Abraham; the Muslims, some of them, contend that they were the same, but we believe they were two distinct Prophets.  There is a misunderstanding in the reference in “Bahá’í Proofs” to this matter.

No.4.  There are no Prophets, so far, in the same category as Bahá’u’lláh, as He culminates a great cycle begun with Adam.

No.5.  The Greatest Name is the Name of Bahá’u’lláh.  “Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá” is an invocation meaning “O Thou Glory of Glories”!  Both refer to Bahá’u’lláh.  By Greatest Name is meant that Bahá’u’lláh has appeared in God’s Greatest Name, in other words, that He is the supreme manifestation of God.

No.6.  Revelations 3:12, refers to the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.

No.7.  References in the Bible to “Mt. Paran” and “Paraclete” refer to Muḥammad’s Revelation.  Deuteronomy 33:2; Genesis 21:21; Numbers 12:16; Numbers 13:13; Genesis 17:20 refer to the twelve Imams and in the Revelation of St. John Ch. II, where it mentions two witnesses, it refers to Muḥammad and ‘Alí.

No.8.  The statement in the “Gleanings”, p. 64–65, “who out of utter nothingness …” etc., should be taken in a symbolic and not literal sense.  It is only to demonstrate the power and greatness of God.

No.9.  The Guardian considers that the gist of what Mrs Hanford Ford reported can be considered quite correct.

No.10.  The figures 1290 date from the declaration of Muḥammad, ten years before His flight to Medina.

No.11.  The intercalary days are specially set aside for hospitality, the giving of gifts, etc.  Bahá’u’lláh Himself specified that they be used in this way, but gave no explanation for it.

No.12.  The Bahá’í Summer Schools were originated in America to meet the requirements of the friends.  They have been adopted by other Bahá’í communities the world-over, but there is no reason why they should be called “Summer Schools”.  There is nothing rigid about the term, it is purely descriptive.  The Guardian feels that although you can have the immediate affairs of your Summer-Schools managed by a convenient Local Assembly, they should remain under the direct supervision of the National Spiritual Assembly as they are national in character and not purely local.

A few days ago Mr Jim Heggie came to see the Guardian.  He was able to visit all the Shrines and archives as well.  Shoghi Effendi was delighted with him; he found him devoted, full of faith and zeal, and very well read in the teachings.  He feels that if this is a sample of the Bahá’í youth of Australia, there is, indeed, a wonderful future ahead of that country!

He will be very pleased to receive the picture of Father Dunn’s grave as soon as it is available.

The Guardian assures you and the members of the National Spiritual Assembly that his prayers are constantly being offered on your behalf.  He is so very pleased with the good news he receives of your activities and the spread of the Cause in those distant lands.

Only yesterday he was reading a most heartening and enthusiastic report of the work in Tasmania, which greatly cheered him.

Dark as these days are he feels confident that the Australian and New Zealand Bahá’ís will continue with unabated devotion to carry on their excellent and exemplary services to the Faith.

His prayers are with them all, and his loving gratitude goes out to you who lead and co-ordinate their activities.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

Yours in the service of the beloved Faith,

R. Rabbani

Dearly-beloved co-workers:

In these days when perils are increasingly threatening that far-off continent, the most distant outpost of our beloved Faith, my thoughts turn with deepening anxiety, solicitude, and love to those who are so valiantly holding aloft the banner of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh.  I appeal to every one of them, and particularly to the members of the Assemblies who safeguard their interests, not to allow any disturbance, suffering, or anxiety to dim the splendour of their faith, to deflect

them from their high purpose, to cause any division in their ranks, to interfere with the steady consolidation and expansion of their activities and institutions.  I will specially pray that the work they have magnificently initiated, and so marvellously and soundly developed may suffer no setback, but rather continue to develop and yield its destined fruit.  Persevere and rest assured.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi.

27 December 1941 [Australia and New Zealand]

GENERAL SUPERVISION BY NATIONAL ASSEMBLY SUFFICIENT PRAYING SUCCESS DELIBERATIONS MEETING AND SUMMER SCHOOL DEEPEST LOVE SHOGHI RABBANI

29 December 1941 [Australia and New Zealand]

SISTER MEHRANGIZ FOLLOWED EXAMPLE AFNANS SISTER JUSTICE PROMPTS ME INFLICT SIMILAR PUNISHMENT SHOGHI RABBANI

18 January 1942 [Australia and New Zealand]

COMFORTED ADMIRE EXEMPLARY FAITH DEVOTION EVIDENCE SOLID BONDS TRUE SPIRITUAL KINSHIP SHOGHI RABBANI

February 1942 [Australia and New Zealand]

DEEPLY APPRECIATE SPIRIT PROMPTING RESPONSE DEEPEST LOVE SHOGHI RABBANI

23 February 1942 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Your letter, with enclosures of November 8th reached the Guardian safely, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

His thoughts and prayers are very often with the Australian Bahá’ís in these difficult and dangerous times.  They are now facing a much more acute situation than hitherto.  But whatever of trial and affliction the immediate future may hold for them, we know that the destiny of mankind is in the firm grasp of Bahá’u’lláh, and that he will guide it to its ultimate and highest goal.  This assurance is more precious than life itself, it is our anchor in every difficulty and trial.

The Guardian was very happy to know that the work in Brisbane is progressing, and that the Cause is more and more coming before the public and reaching the attention of prominent people.

He feels the believers must continue to do their utmost to acquaint their fellow-citizens with the teachings, that they may at least hear of the Bahá’í ideals, whether they are ready to accept them yet or not.

The recent meeting of the National Spiritual Assembly must have been of great benefit to all the members and to the work of the Cause in general.  Their responsibility in these days is greater than ever, but Shoghi Effendi feels sure they will be guided and protected and continue to spread and safe-guard the Faith in those distant lands.

He assures you, and all the NSA members, of his deep appreciation for your untiring services and his loving and ardent prayers.  He will beseech for you all blessings and protection in the Holy Shrines.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Yours in His service,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers,

As the difficulties and problems facing the valiant and high-minded supporters and upholders of the Faith in Australia and New Zealand multiply, my thoughts and prayers turn increasingly towards them in loving admiration for the work they have performed and will continue to perform in the future.  Adversity, in whatever form, will, I feel confident, now that they have laid an unassailable basis for the Faith, in their hearts and through their institutions, serve to heighten the ardour of their devotion and reinforce the foundation of their spiritual community life.  They should persevere, redouble their efforts, close their ranks, intensify their individual as well as collective teaching activities, and defend even more tenaciously and courageously the tenets, claims and institutions of their Faith.  Measureless blessings will crown their exertions if they persevere and face heroically the challenge, the problems and the perplexities of the present hour.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

18 April 1942 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

The Guardian has instructed me to answer your two letters of January 15th and 24th, and to acknowledge the receipt of the enclosed letter of Mrs Dunn.

He was delighted to learn that the New Zealand members were able to make the trip to Australia, and that such a highly satisfactory NSA meeting was held, in such a spirit of love and harmony.  No doubt this experience will prove of great value, not only to the National Assembly, but also to the work of the Cause in the days to come.

Regarding the various matters you refer to in your letters:  The Guardian highly approves of the very kind and helpful arrangements made by Dr Bolton, by which his property at Yerrinbool will pass to the Faith at his death and be used, according to the requirements of a future date, as dictated by the discretion of the NSA.  It is better that the believers, subject to the judgements of the NSA, be left free to select any spot that will prove most convenient for the majority for the summer-schools.

Regarding the Summer-Schools in general; although there is no objection to their being under the direct management of a special committee elected for that purpose, they must be generally supervised by the NSA in respect to policy, etc.  In other words they must be considered as a national and not a purely local institution.

For purposes of convenience the NSA may appoint as members of such Committees, those who are situated near the Summer-Schools and are able to pay direct attention to their affairs.

Concerning individual Bahá’ís’ letters to the Guardian and his replies; the friends are free to write to the Guardian when they feel the urge to do so.  However, for the believers to suppose that the Guardian’s letters to them, however full of loving encouragement they may be, give them any special powers or authority to go against or ignore the wishes of their Local or National Assembly, is to grossly misinterpret his true meaning.  The Guardian has been at great pains to build up the administrative order and teach the friends how to use it.  How could he possibly himself act in such a way as to ignore or belittle the functions of these bodies?  He often encourages believers to work, to teach, to pursue some plan they propose in their letters to him but this does not mean a veto of the Assembly’s rights, or that the individual thus becomes free to ignore its authority.  He trusts this will make the matter quite plain to the friends.

Regarding the matter of Mother Dunn’s letter; the NSA, will, he feels sure, do all in their power to allay the fears of Mother Dunn and smooth out any misunderstandings that may arise.  He feels, however, that you should point out to Mother Dunn that if, at any future date, the believers of Australia and New Zealand should wish to remove the remains of Father Dunn and herself to a beautiful site in a Bahá’í cemetery, or any other chosen spot, they cannot do it without some legal authorization.  Just at present, after an infinite amount of red tape being gotten through, the Egyptian NSA has at last succeeded in getting arrangements made for the transfer of Lua Getsinger’s and Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl’s bodies to the new Bahá’í Cemetery.  It is to ensure success and save trouble in the future, that your Assembly is asking her to delegate certain powers to it in this matter.  He feels sure she will cooperate fully when she understands the matter.

In view of the criticalness of the times, the great issues facing the entire human race, and the uncertainty of what perils and trials may yet remain ahead of us to be endured, the Guardian feels that the sooner Father Dunn’s memorial is erected the better.  Mother Dunn may rest assured in her heart that future believers of Australia will know how to honour and cherish dear Father Dunn’s grave; for the time being, though, it seems to him it would be wise to complete whatever arrangements are under way as speedily as possible, subject, of course, to her acceptance, as he does not want her to be distressed or unhappy over this matter.

The Guardian would be very glad to receive as soon as possible photographs of Father Dunn’s grave upon its completion, to be placed in the Mansion of Bahá’u’lláh at Bahjí.

He assures you all that he feels the greatest confidence in your ability to aid the believers of Australia and New Zealand to weather all storms during the dark days we are passing through.  The friends of those two countries have amply displayed their deep loyalty to the Faith, their profound dedication to its Divine Mission, their adherence to its laws and institutions.  He always thinks of them with a heart at rest and feelings of deep affection.  Rest assured that his loving prayers will continue to be offered on their behalf, and for you and your fellow members of the NSA, who are serving with such devotion and self-sacrifice the Holy Faith.

With warm Bahá’í Greetings and love,

R. Rabbani

Dear beloved friends,

The spirit manifested by the radiant supporters of the Faith in Australia and New Zealand is most encouraging, highly meritorious, and truly exemplary.  The work they have achieved, the plans they are devising, the hopes they cherish for the future, fill me with admiration and evoke my deepest gratitude.  The Beloved will assuredly continue to illumine their path, to sustain their efforts, and to bless their accomplishments in these days of unprecedented stress, anxiety, and peril.  I will continue to supplicate for them all his abundant and imperishable blessings.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

11 July 1942 [Australia and New Zealand]

DEEPLY GRIEVE LOSS OUTSTANDING PIONEER FAITH HIS HISTORIC SERVICES ENTITLE HIM ENVIABLE PLACE RANK TRAILBREAKERS ABHA CAUSE GATHERED SUPREME CONCOURSE ADVISE HOLD MEMORIAL

GATHERINGS ALL CENTRES BEFITTING HIS UNIQUE POSITION DEEPEST LOVING SYMPATHY ASSURANCE FERVENT PRAYERS SHOGHI RABBANI

28 July 1942 [Australia and New Zealand]

DEPLORE LOSS THREE MORE BELIEVERS ASSURE FRIENDS RELATIVES LOVING SYMPATHY SHOGHI RABBANI

10 September 1942 [Australia and New Zealand]

GREATLY CHEERED ENCOURAGED SOUND PERSISTENT EVER EXTENDING TEACHING ACTIVITIES OF DEAR BELIEVERS AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND PROMPTED CABLE TWO HUNDRED POUNDS CARE COOKS MY CONTRIBUTION FURTHERANCE NOBLE WORK SHOGHI RABBANI

18 September 1942 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your welcome letter of May 16th has just reached the Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was delighted to hear that the Cause in Adelaide is making such good progress, and that many new and fine souls have embraced the Faith there.

He was also very happy to hear Jim Heggie has been with you all and is so active in helping the friends all he can and in starting a youth group.  He is a very fine young Bahá’í, and the Guardian enjoyed meeting him very much.  He hopes in the future many more of the Australian and New Zealand friends will be able to visit Haifa.

The Cause is still in its infancy, and when one remembers this, and all it has had to contend with in the line of persecution and oppression for almost a hundred years, it is indeed a miracle that in such widely distant lands as South America and Australia, Europe, and Asia, there should be flourishing centres of devoted and active and growing believers, growing not only in numbers but in deep understanding of and devotion to the Faith.

The Guardian encloses a receipt for your most generous donation to the International Fund, forwarded on behalf of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand, which he deeply appreciates.

He was pleased to see the photograph you sent of your house where you hold Bahá’í receptions and meetings, and he hopes your devoted labours to promote the Faith will meet with ever-increasing success.

Assuring you of his loving prayers and his deep appreciation of your services to the Cause of God in Australia, and with Bahá’í love and greetings,

Yours truly,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  The Guardian hopes that your desire to have your house become Bahá’í property will some day be realized.  He deeply appreciates your intention and motive in this matter.

May the Almighty bless you and your dear co-workers who are so valiantly, so devotedly, and so effectively furthering the vital and manifold interests of His Faith, and may He enable you to fulfil your dearest hopes in His service.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

13 January 1943 [Australia and New Zealand]

ANNOUNCE BELIEVERS COMPLETION EXTERIOR EDIFICE FIRST BAHAI TEMPLE WESTERN WORLD ADVISE CABLE CONGRATULATIONS ITS VALIANT BUILDERS SHOGHI RABBANI

19 March 1943 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letters, written on behalf of the National Spiritual Assembly, and dated April 21st, 1942 and November 18th, 1942, reached the Guardian, together with their enclosures, and he has instructed me to answer them on his behalf.  He regrets the delay in replying to them, but he has been, and still is, engaged on a work which requires a tremendous amount of his time, and his correspondence has, of necessity, suffered from it.

The Guardian would prefer sending all cables and moneys etc., to you direct, but the war regulations, as enforced in this country, prohibit the use of a postal address in cables or telegrams, and as he does not have your street address, he has had to do it this way.  Please forward your own address, or the one you care to have used, and it will simplify matters in the future.

He is delighted to hear that the friends will be able to hold a Convention in April, and he hopes that through its deliberations and the meetings of the NSA members, far reaching teaching plans will be set afoot and the Cause in New Zealand and Australia obtain a new impetus.  You already have the nuclei of a number of Spiritual Assemblies in places where there are a group of believers, and he hopes that through following the methods, so successful in such countries as India and the United States, of having both travelling teachers and pioneers or settlers go out, you will have a number of new Spiritual Assemblies by 1944.

He was very pleased to see the increased interest among the friends in their various Bahá’í Summer and Winter Schools, and hopes that these will increasingly attract students of the Faith anxious to deepen their knowledge of its wonderful teachings.

The Australian and New Zealand friends, now feeling the full weight of the war, its dangers and sorrows, are very often in his prayers.  He feels confident that they will emerge from these dark years stronger in spirit, more united and consecrated than ever before.  They have a great and precious mission before them of rearing, albeit in miniature, the pattern of a New World Order, divine in origin, in the midst of their countrymen, who someday are sure to turn to that pattern as the solution of their problems and the harbinger of their happiness.

He assures you and all the members of the NSA of his continual, loving prayers, that you may be guided and aided in all your services to our beloved Faith.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  The Guardian replied to Mr Heggie’s letter, and he is very pleased to hear of the fine work he is doing.  He is also pleased to hear that the work will now go on in connection with Father Dunn’s memorial.

Dear and valued co-workers:

The constancy, the zeal, the unity and devotion which characterize the activities of the dearly-beloved community of Australia and New Zealand Bahá’ís evoke my heartfelt admiration, and demonstrate the power of Bahá’u’lláh and His unfailing guidance.  I will pray for them all, will supplicate for them His richest blessings, and feel confident that if they persevere in their noble task their mission will be crowned with glorious success.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

26 March 1943 [Australia and New Zealand]

ADVISE MEMBERS NATIONAL ASSEMBLY CONCENTRATE NEXT MEETING MEASURES ENSURE MULTIPLICATION BAHAI CENTRES PRAYING UNPRECEDENTED BLESSINGS CABLING TWO HUNDRED POUNDS REINFORCE ALL IMPORTANT URGENT TEACHING ACTIVITIES APPEAL SUPREME SYSTEMATIC PERSISTENT EFFORTS SHOGHI RABBANI

12 May 1943 [Australia and New Zealand]

KINDLY AIRMAIL IMMEDIATELY COMPLETE LIST NAMES ALL LOCALITIES AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND WHERE ONE OR MORE BELIEVERS RESIDE SPECIFYING THOSE POSSESSING SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES SHOGHI RABBANI

23 June 1943 [Australia and New Zealand]

CABLING CARE COOKS THREE HUNDRED POUNDS FOR FURTHERANCE TEACHING ACTIVITIES PRAYING UNPRECEDENTED BLESSINGS SHOGHI RABBANI

16 July 1943 [Australia and New Zealand]

KINDLY CABLE EXACT DATE MONTH AND YEAR DUNNS ARRIVAL AUSTRALIA TO ESTABLISH FAITH SHOGHI RABBANI

18 July 1943 [Australia and New Zealand]

ASSURE MEMBERS ARDENT PRAYERS REMOVAL DIFFICULTIES EXPANSION TEACHING ACTIVITIES LOVE

22 July 1943 [Australia and New Zealand]

OWING IMPORTANCE ASCERTAIN EXACT DATE THROUGH FURTHER INVESTIGATION AND KINDLY CABLE SHOGHI RABBANI

29 July 1943 [Australia and New Zealand]

REMARKABLE PROGRESS ACHIEVED FAITH BAHAULLAH LAST TWO DECADES AUSTRALASIA AS EVIDENCED BY ESTABLISHMENT LOCAL ASSEMBLIES FORMATION NATIONAL ASSEMBLY INSTITUTION SUMMER SCHOOL INCORPORATION BAHAI ADMINISTRATIVE BODIES EXPANSION TEACHING ACTIVITIES INITIATION PERIODICALS PROMPTS ME ADVISE NATIONAL ELECTED REPRESENTATIVES AUSTRALIAN NEW ZEALAND BELIEVERS INAUGURATE NATIONAL ENDOWMENTS BY UNDERTAKING PROMPT MEASURES PURCHASE SUITABLE BUILDING SYDNEY MOTHER CITY CONTINENT TO SERVE AS BAHAI NATIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE HEADQUARTERS AND SEAT OF NATIONAL ASSEMBLY CABLING THOUSAND POUNDS CONTRIBUTION ENTERPRISE DESIGNED CROWN LABOURS AFFORD TANGIBLE EVIDENCE CONSOLIDATING STRENGTH COMMUNITY VALIANT FOLLOWERS BAHAULLAH IN ANTIPODES SHOGHI RABBANI

3 October 1943 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letters dated July 2nd and August 2nd, together with the financial report and the two receipts made out in the name of the Guardian, have been received, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very pleased to hear that a successful NSA meeting was held, and that plans are going ahead speedily for the teaching work, and the opening of new cities to the Faith.

He hopes that the NSA will be able to establish their Bahá’í Administrative Headquarters in Sydney with the greatest expedition, as this is an undertaking of primary importance, and will greatly redound to the prestige of the Faith.

Other countries, namely ‘Iráq, Egypt, India and Persia either have established such institutions, or are rapidly completing their erection in time for the Centenary of our beloved Faith next May, and the Guardian is most anxious that the Australian and New Zealand Bahá’ís should have a similar headquarters before that date.

He hopes that you received a letter from him, in answer to one from you, and mailed some time ago, in which he explained that, as your street address had not been available, nor that of Miss Brooks, he had been forced to forward money to the NSA through Mr Bolton, as the Cable office will not accept P. O. Box addresses.

The Guardian assures you of his loving prayers and his appreciation of your devoted labours for our beloved Faith.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved sustain, guide, and bless you, and enable you, in conjunction with your devoted co-workers, to establish the national Bahá’í headquarters in Sydney, and thus reinforce the foundations, and expand the range, of the Administrative Order, which has been erected with such remarkable rapidity and soundness in that far-off land.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

8 October 1943 [Australia and New Zealand]

APPROVE DECISION NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY REGARDING BAHAI PROPERTY.  APPRECIATE DEVOTION ENTHUSIASM ADELAIDE FRIENDS.  URGE CONCENTRATION EFFORTS UNITY BELIEVERS PROMOTION TEACHING ACTIVITIES ESTABLISHMENT NATIONAL BAHAI ADMINISTRATIVE HEADQUARTERS SYDNEY ASSURE ALL LOVING PRAYERS

13 October 1943 [Australia and New Zealand]

CABLING FURTHER TWO THOUSAND POUNDS MY LOVING CONTRIBUTION PROMPT ESTABLISHMENT NATIONAL BAHAI HEADQUARTERS WITHIN CITY SYDNEY BAHAI COMMUNITIES EAST WEST WILL ALSO JOYOUSLY ASSOCIATE THEMSELVES EPOCH MAKING ENTERPRISE INITIATED FAR AWAY DEARLY BELOVED SISTER COMMUNITY AUSTRALASIA PRAYING RESOUNDING SUCCESS SHOGHI RABBANI

3 December 1943 [Australia and New Zealand]

EAGERLY AWAITING NEWS PURCHASE HEADQUARTERS SYDNEY.  CABLED HUNDRED POUNDS CARE COOKS FOR HEADQUARTERS KINDLY MAIL RECEIPT NAME SOHRAB BAHMARDI

7 December 1943 [Australia and New Zealand]

PRAYING SPEEDY PURCHASE PROPERTY LOVING APPRECIATION SHOGHI RABBANI

11 December 1943 [Australia and New Zealand]

URGE PERSEVERANCE PRAYING REMOVAL OBSTACLES

18 December 1943 [Australia and New Zealand]

ADVISE PURCHASE IMMEDIATELY PROPERTY THREE MILES DISTANT CITY.  REGISTER PROPERTY NAME NATIONAL ASSEMBLY MAIL THREE PHOTOGRAPHS LOVING APPRECIATION SHOGHI RABBANI

9 January 1944 [Australia and New Zealand]

HEARTFELT CONGRATULATIONS CABLE PURCHASE PRICE LOVE SHOGHI RABBANI

7 February 1944 [Australia and New Zealand]

URGE HOLD CONVENTION IN MAY DURING WEEK IN WHICH CENTENARY CELEBRATED ALL BAHAI CONVENTIONS WILL BE HELD THIS YEAR IN MAY SHOGHI RABBANI

23 January 1944 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Your letters dated November 18th and October 2nd and December 29th have been received, and the Guardian has instructed me to answer them on his behalf.

He very deeply appreciates all the trouble you personally have gone to in order to find a suitable building for the National Bahá’í Headquarters and the efforts of other devoted friends.

The most important thing of all has been successfully accomplished:  you have succeeded in purchasing, within city limits, a suitable building and well in time for it to be furnished and in use before the centenary celebrations next May.

In regard to the question you raise about a secretary:  this is, of course, a matter to be decided by the NSA but in most countries where the work of the NSA has become sufficiently involved to necessitate it, the secretary of the NSA has assistant secretaries.  If Miss Brooks is unable, for family reasons, to take up her residence in Sydney, an assistant secretary could do so.  Of course the actual secretary of the NSA must be a member of it; the assistant need not be.

It is a source of great happiness to the Guardian that now all the countries possessing an NSA have also a Nat.  Ad.  Headquarters of their own, and

will be able to meet the requirements of the new century ahead of us better equipped to handle the ever increasing work of the Faith.

He assures you and all the other dear friends who cooperated in finding a headquarters of his loving appreciation and his prayers for the progress of your manifold activities in our beloved Cause.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  The Guardian wishes to stress the necessity of referring henceforth in all Bahá’í publications to the National Bahá’í Headquarters as the “Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds”.  It should be known by this designation.

Dear and valued co-worker:

I wish to assure you in person of my deep appreciation of your strenuous and devoted efforts in the service of the Faith, and I rejoice to learn of the progress the Faith is making and of the spirit that animates its upholders in that distant continent.  I will pray for them from the depths of my heart, and I feel sure that the Beloved will crown with signal success their high endeavours.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

14 March 1944 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Your letters dated June 8th, September 12th, November 12th, January 10th and 17th, 1944, together with their enclosures have all been received, and the Guardian has instructed me to answer them on his behalf.  He has also received the envelope of photographs you sent of NSA members, Father Dunn’s grave and other pictures of Bahá’í friends, for which he thanks you.  He also wishes to thank you for your manuscript for the “Bahá’í World” which was also received safely.

In regard to the recently purchased National Headquarters in Sydney:  He was delighted that you were able to take possession of a house suitable to the present requirements of the Faith, and he trusts that by the time this reaches you all the legal steps will have been completed and the building registered in the name of the National Spiritual Assembly.  It should be called by its proper title of “Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds”.

The ideal to be followed, of course, is for the secretariat, the office of the treasurer, etc., to be in the National Headquarters.  However, this can be brought about gradually, and he leaves decisions in this matter to the NSA.

He trusts that the combined Centenary Celebrations and annual convention will not only draw a large group of believers to Sydney to meet in their new Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds, but will also be a means of attracting the attention of the public to the Faith on a wider scale than ever before.  The Australian

and New Zealand friends are standing not only on the threshold of the second Bahá’í century but also on the threshold of a new phase of the Cause in that part of the world.  Their responsibilities are therefore greatly increased, and he believes they will meet them unitedly, with clear vision, and their characteristic devotion to our beloved Faith.

He assures you and the other members of the NSA of his loving prayers for the success of your labours and the fulfilment of your dearest hopes.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  He found the newspaper clippings you forwarded of great interest, and is pleased to see that the press is being so friendly and helpful.  He has already through a cable stated that the convention should be held in conjunction with the Centenary Celebrations which embrace the 23rd of May.  The Commemoration gathering should be held on the 22nd of May exactly at two hours and eleven minutes after sunset, which is the time at which the Báb declared His mission.

Dear and valued co-workers,

The activities of the beloved friends in Australia and New Zealand during recent months have been truly remarkable.  Now that the Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds is to be established in Sydney I trust and pray that this central administrative headquarters in the oldest and leading Bahá’í centre in that far-off continent will act as a powerful magnet and attract the manifold blessings of the Almighty and lend a tremendous impetus to the organised activities of the believers in Australia and New Zealand.  I will continue to pray for them from the depths of my heart.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

21 March 1944 [Australia and New Zealand]

DELIGHTED NEWS LOVING REMEMBRANCE HISTORIC NAWRUZ.  CABLING THREE HUNDRED POUNDS MY CONTRIBUTION CENTENARY CELEBRATIONS AND BANQUET MY BEHALF FOR DELEGATES FRIENDS GATHERED COMMEMORATE HISTORIC OCCASION MAY 23RD DEEPEST LOVE SHOGHI RABBANI

12 April 1944 [Australia and New Zealand]

WILL CABLE MESSAGE CELEBRATIONS PRAYING SUCCESS LOVE SHOGHI RABBANI

21 May 1944 [Australia and New Zealand]

ASSURE FRIENDS DELEGATES GATHERED CONVENTION CELEBRATE GLORIOUS CENTENARY FOUNDING BELOVED FAITH LOVING REMEMBRANCE HOLY SHRINES REJOICE GRATEFUL CEASELESS MAGNIFICENT SERVICES RENDERED BY VALIANT FAITHFUL COMMUNITY AUSTRALIAN NEW ZEALAND BELIEVERS FERVENTLY PRAYING BRILLIANT VICTORIES OPENING YEARS SECOND BAHAI CENTURY TEACHING FIELD AND FURTHER EXTENSION CONSOLIDATION BAHAI ADMINISTRATIVE INSTITUTIONS SHOGHI RABBANI

22 May 1944 [Australia and New Zealand]

DEEPLY APPRECIATE GREETINGS NATIONAL ASSEMBLY AND DELEGATES HEARTS UNITED GLORIOUS OCCASION PRAYING UNPRECEDENTED BLESSING HIGH MINDED STOUT HEARTED DEARLY BELOVED AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND BELIEVERS SHOGHI RABBANI

23 May 1944 [Australia and New Zealand]

ANNOUNCE FRIENDS JOYFUL TIDINGS HUNDREDTH ANNIVERSARY DECLARATION MISSION MARTYRED HERALD FAITH SIGNALISED BY HISTORIC DECISION COMPLETE HIS SEPULCHRE ERECTED BY ‘ABDU’L‑BAHA ON SITE CHOSEN BY BAHAULLAH RECENTLY DESIGNED MODEL DOME UNVEILED PRESENCE ASSEMBLED BELIEVERS PRAYING EARLY REMOVAL OBSTACLES CONSUMMATION STUPENDOUS PLAN CONCEIVED BY FOUNDER FAITH AND HOPES CHERISHED BY CENTRE HIS COVENANT SHOGHI RABBANI

15 June 1944 [Australia and New Zealand]

MAIL ME IMMEDIATELY THREE PHOTOGRAPHS NATIONAL BAHAI HEADQUARTERS FOR BAHAI WORLD

23 June 1944 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

I am instructed by the beloved Guardian to answer your letter of April 20th, and to forward to you the receipt for the loving contribution you enclosed on behalf of the New Zealand and Australian Bahá’ís.

He is very eager to receive the reports of the Convention and Centenary celebrations held in Sydney.  The friends are rapidly expanding their activities and institutions in those distant lands, and he feels sure that a very bright future indeed is opening before them during these first decades of our second Bahá’í century which lies before us.

Please convey to all the members of the NSA the assurance of his loving prayers on their behalf and for the success of the work they are undertaking in these challenging days the world is passing through at present.

He will remember you in the Shrines and pray for the success of your services.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless your efforts, guide your steps and fulfil your dearest wish in the service of our beloved Faith.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

8 July 1944 [Australia and New Zealand]

PREPARE CONDENSED REPORT NOT EXCEEDING THIRTY PAGES REGARDING ACTIVITIES ACHIEVEMENTS BAHAI FAITH DURING PAST FOUR YEARS.  MAIL ONE COPY AMERICA ANOTHER HAIFA PROMPT ACTION NECESSARY

17 October 1944 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

The Guardian has instructed me to acknowledge your letter dated June 27th and also two previous ones from the former Secretary of the NSA dated February 6th and August 27th, and to answer them on his behalf.

He deeply appreciates all the work done by dear Miss Brooks in the past as Secretary of the National Assembly, and hopes that now that she is relieved of this arduous post she will devote much of her time to teaching and writing for the Faith.

The sacrifice you and your husband are making by moving to Sydney in order to attend to the work of the NSA is truly praiseworthy, and he hopes the way will open up for you to do so at an early date.

In connection with the incorporation of the NSA the Guardian feels that whatever form the incorporation takes the name and seal of the Nat.  Assembly must not be changed in any way, i.e. the title “National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand” must be preserved.

The various enclosures you forwarded in your letter were all received safely by him.

He hopes that now that the National Headquarters has been established and you are going to take up residence there as Secretary—thus giving a new permanence and prestige to the functions of the NSA—the work of the Faith will go ahead by leaps and bounds.  The many groups now functioning should be aided and strengthened with a view to forming new Spiritual Assemblies as

soon as possible, and the Cause should be given publicity as much as possible through the Press, Radio, and public meetings.

You may be sure his most loving prayers will be offered for the success of your labours as NSA secretary, and for your health and guidance.  Also for the confirmation of your husband in the Faith.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers:

The work accomplished by the Australian and New Zealand believers in recent years, in both the teaching and administrative spheres of Bahá’í activity, culminating in the splendid celebrations at the newly established national headquarters in the capital city of the Australian Commonwealth, is highly praiseworthy and augurs well for the future.  The opening years of the new century must witness a stupendous effort on the part of the newly established community in the teaching field—an effort at once nation-wide, systematic, strenuous and persistent.  The multiplication of Bahá’í centres in towns and villages, a greater measure of publicity, a higher degree of unity and consecration to the Faith, a fuller measure of self-sacrifice should distinguish the labours of the members of this community.  I will pray from the depths of my heart for the removal of every obstacle from your path and the speedy realization of every hope you cherish for the promotion of His Faith and the consolidation of its institutions.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

12 December 1944 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The beloved Guardian has instructed me to write your National Spiritual Assembly and inform you of his views and wishes in connection with the Summer School in Australia:

He does not consider it either wise or necessary at the present time to have more than one Bahá’í Summer School in Australia, and as Yerrinbool is equipped to accommodate the friends on Bahá’í property, so to speak, he would suggest that Yerrinbool continue to be used as the Australian Bahá’í Summer School.

He pointed out this same principle of not multiplying the number of Summer Schools some time ago in connection with the Adelaide Assembly’s purchase of a building and property.

He has also done the same thing in America—limited the number of Summer Schools—as the friends in their enthusiasm to inaugurate new institutions wanted to have very many Summer Schools which would have not

only weakened, instead of strengthening, the older schools, but also would have dissipated the energy of the friends.

Assuring you and all the members of your Assembly of his loving prayers on your behalf and for the success of your work,

Yours in His service,

R. Rabbani

13 March 1945 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Your letter of February 9th has been received (written on behalf of the NSA), and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf and to also acknowledge receipt of the copy of the resolutions which you forwarded in it.

The news you conveyed was all very encouraging and pleased him greatly.  He was particularly happy to hear of the formation of a new Spiritual Assembly at Caringbah as this marks an important step forward in the growth of the Cause and its administrative institutions in Australia.  He hopes that the NSA will, through travelling and visiting teachers, and Bahá’í settlers and pioneers, be able to speedily ensure the establishment of further Assemblies; wherever the conditions for their development seem most promising, the efforts should be concentrated.

He was also very glad to hear that the Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds has been successfully transferred to the name of the National Assembly.  He is looking forward to receiving the photographs of its opening, and of the Centenary dinner, which you are sending him.  Likewise he was pleased to see it is being put to such active use and teaching classes, public meetings, etc., being held in it.

He cannot stress too much the vital importance of the teaching work, and he hopes that all the believers, however circumscribed their means, however unqualified they may feel themselves to be, will arise and contribute their share to this all-important work.  The Cause has, all things considered, made remarkable progress in Australia and New Zealand of late; but the united efforts of all the friends are required to spread the Divine Message during these moving and dark times the world is passing through.  They must fix their eyes on the abject misery of humanity and, forgetful of their own limitations, deliver the Teachings to their fellow countrymen.

He assures you and your co-workers that he deeply appreciates your devoted services, and will constantly pray for the progress of the Faith in those distant and important lands.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  He hopes that the NSA watches over dear Mother Dunn.  She is now advancing in years and deserves the greatest love and consideration in view of the imperishable services she and Father Dunn rendered the Cause there.

P.P.S.  Your previous letter, dated August 18th, as well as the photostat copies connected with the incorporation of the NSA reached him.  He was delighted at this further evidence of the efficiency of that body and the manner in which it is consolidating its foundation.

Dear and valued co-workers:

The teaching responsibilities confronting the Australian and New Zealand believers are of supreme importance and of extreme urgency.  Now that the basis of the Administrative Order has been firmly laid, and fully understood, and the National Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds established in the leading city of the Australian Commonwealth, the attention of the members of the entire community must be focused on the teaching work—the promotion of which is the ultimate object of the entire machinery of the Administrative Order and its subsidiary institutions and agencies.  The multiplication of Bahá’í groups, the steady increase in the number of Local Assemblies, the dissemination of literature, the dispersal of the believers, no matter how small their number, to important centres throughout the continent constitute the vital task of the infant community which has, despite its limited resources and isolated situation, demonstrated its capacity to establish on a sound basis the primary institutions of the Faith to safeguard its unity and promote its vital interests.  That it may forge ahead and overcome every obstacle in its path and fulfil its high destiny is my fondest hope and constant prayer.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

15 March 1945 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

I am enclosing the receipt for the contribution from the NSA which I forgot to enclose in my previous letter.  I am so sorry.  The Guardian deeply appreciated the love and devotion which inspired this gift.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

I gratefully acknowledge the receipt of the sum of thirty pounds from the National Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand, to be expended for the promotion of the International interests of the Bahá’í Faith.

Shoghi

21 March 1945 [Australia and New Zealand]

DEEPLY APPRECIATE GREETINGS BELIEVERS AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND PRAYING UNPRECEDENTED VICTORIES SHOGHI RABBANI

1 May 1945 [Australia and New Zealand]

DELIGHTED MULTIPLICATION BAHAI CENTRES AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND URGE UNITED REDOUBLED EFFORTS FURTHER EXTENSION CONSOLIDATION CABLING FIVE HUNDRED POUNDS FOR EXTENSION TEACHING ACTIVITIES FORMATION GROUPS ESTABLISHMENT ASSEMBLIES PRAYING FERVENTLY SUCCESS PERSEVERE SHOGHI RABBANI

10 May 1945 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

I am enclosing a copy of the Guardian’s message to all the believers, East and West, upon the cessation of hostilities in Europe.

Please share it with all the dear Australian and New Zealand believers.  Also please acknowledge its receipt by air mail.

Let us hope that the blessing of peace will soon come to the Pacific region too!

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

[9 May 1945]

FOLLOWERS BAHA’U’LLAH THROUGHOUT FIVE CONTINENTS UNANIMOUSLY REJOICE PARTIAL EMERGENCE WAR TORN HUMANITY FROM TITANIC UPHEAVAL UNERRINGLY PREDICTED SEVENTY YEARS AGO BY PEN AUTHOR THEIR FAITH.  CESSATION HOSTILITIES EUROPEAN CONTINENT SIGNALIZES CLOSING YET ANOTHER CHAPTER TRAGIC TALE FIERY TRIALS PROVIDENTIALLY DECREED BY INSCRUTABLE WISDOM DESIGNED ULTIMATELY WELD MUTUALLY ANTAGONISTIC ELEMENTS HUMAN SOCIETY INTO SINGLE ORGANICALLY UNITED UNSHATTERABLE WORLD COMMONWEALTH GRATEFULLY ACCLAIM SIGNAL EVIDENCE INTERPOSITION DIVINE PROVIDENCE WHICH DURING SUCH PERILOUS YEARS ENABLED WORLD CENTER FAITH ESCAPE WHAT POSTERITY WILL RECOGNISE AS ONE OF GRAVEST DANGERS EVER CONFRONTED NERVE CENTER ITS INSTITUTIONS.  PROFOUNDLY AWARE BOUNTIFUL GRACE VOUCHSAFED BY SAME PROVIDENCE ENSURING UNLIKE PREVIOUS WORLD CONFLICT UNINTERRUPTED INTERCOURSE BETWEEN SPIRITUAL CENTER AND VAST MAJORITY COMMUNITIES FUNCTIONING WITHIN ORBIT FLUNG FAITH IMMEASURABLY THANKFUL MIRACULOUS PRESERVATION INDIAN PERSIAN EGYPTIAN BRITISH IRAQI COMMUNITIES LONG THREATENED DIRE PERIL OWING PROXIMITY THEATRE MILITARY OPERATIONS.  DEEPLY CONSCIOUS PROGRESS ACHIEVED DESPITE SIX TEMPESTUOUS YEARS IN BOTH EASTERN WESTERN HEMISPHERES THROUGH COLLECTIVE ENTERPRISES LAUNCHED BY THESE COMMUNITIES OUTSHINES SUM TOTAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS

SINCE INCEPTION FORMATIVE AGE FAITH.  SEVEN YEAR PLAN INAUGURATED AMERICAN BAHAI COMMUNITY UNDER LOWERING CLOUDS APPROACHING CONFLICT VICTORIOUSLY COMPLETED EXTERIOR ORNAMENTATION MOTHER TEMPLE WEST ESTABLISHED STRUCTURAL BASIS FAITH EVERY STATE PROVINCE NORTH AMERICAN CONTINENT AND HOISTED ITS BANNER EVERY REPUBLIC LATIN AMERICA.  INDIAN BELIEVERS SIX YEAR PLAN LAUNCHED EVE HOSTILITIES MORE THAN QUADRUPLED CENTERS FUNCTIONING WITHIN PALE ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER.  EDIFICES CONSECRATED ADMINISTRATIVE AFFAIRS EVER ADVANCING CAUSE INVOLVING EXPENDITURE OVER HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ERECTED PURCHASED OR COMPLETED CAPITAL CITIES INDIA IRAQ EGYPT AS WELL AS SYDNEY AUSTRALIA.  ACQUISITION NUMEROUS PROPERTIES BAHA’U’LLAHS NATIVE LAND MT CARMEL AND JORDAN VALLEY AS WELL AS PURCHASE SEVERAL IMPORTANT HISTORIC SITES ASSOCIATED LIVES BOTH HERALD AND AUTHOR FAITH SWELLED UNPRECEDENTED DEGREE BAHAI ENDOWMENTS.  PRELIMINARY STEPS COMPLETION BABS SEPULCHRE AND ESTABLISHMENT WORLD ADMINISTRATIVE CENTER THROUGH REMOVAL REMAINS BROTHER MOTHER ABDULBAHA UNDERTAKEN.  TERMINATION FIRST CENTURY BAHAI ERA SYNCHRONISING CLIMAX RAGING STORM PUBLICLY BEFITTINGLY CELEBRATED DESPITE MULTIPLICATIONS RESTRICTIONS.  ABOVE ALL UNITY INTEGRITY INCORRUPTIBLE WORLD COMMUNITY CONSISTENTLY SAFEGUARDED IN FACE INSIDIOUS OPPOSITION AVOWED ENEMIES WITHOUT AND COVENANT BREAKERS WITHIN.  SUCH SPLENDID VICTORIES OVER SO VAST FIELD AMIDST SUCH TRIBULATIONS DURING SO PROLONGED ORDEAL AUGUR WELL COLOSSAL TASKS DESTINED BE ACCOMPLISHED COURSE PEACEFUL YEARS AHEAD BY BUILDERS EMBRYONIC WORLD ORDER BAHAULLAH AMIDST WRECKAGE DISTRACTED DISRUPTED DISILLUSIONED SOCIETY SHOGHI

13 May 1945 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer your letters dated April 12th, 13th (two) and 14th, and to acknowledge receipt of the enclosures forwarded with them.

Regarding the matter of … and the inharmony that seems to exist among certain of the friends in Adelaide:  when Bahá’ís permit the dark forces of the world to enter into their own relationships within the Faith they gravely jeopardise its progress; it is the paramount duty of the believers, the Local Assemblies, and particularly the NSA to foster harmony, understanding and love amongst the friends.  All should be ready and willing to set aside every personal sense of grievance—justified or unjustified—for the good of the Cause, because the people will never embrace it until they see in its community life mirrored what is so conspicuously lacking in the world:  love and unity.

The Bahá’ís are fully entitled to address criticisms to their Assemblies; they can freely air their views about policies or individual members of elected bodies to the Assembly, local or national, but then they must whole-heartedly accept the advice or decision of the Assembly, according to the principles already laid down for such matters in Bahá’í administration.

Shoghi Effendi has repeatedly stated, to believers in every part of the world, that the individual Bahá’ís are entirely free to write to him on any matter they please; naturally he is equally free to answer them in any manner he pleases.  At the present time, when the institutions of the Cause are just beginning to function, he considers it essential to keep up this large correspondence, much as it adds to his many other burdens.  It is sometimes the case that the very first intimation he receives of some important step influencing the interests of the Faith, one way or another, comes from an individual’s letter instead of from an Assembly; it would naturally be preferable for the information to come from an administrative body, but whatever the source, the Guardian is solely concerned with the welfare of the Faith, and when he deems a certain step detrimental he states his views in his reply.  This he is at entire liberty to do.

Just as the National Assembly has full jurisdiction over all its Local Assemblies, the Guardian has full jurisdiction over all National Assemblies; he is not required to consult them, if he believes a certain decision is advisable in the interests of the Cause.  He is the judge of the wisdom and advisability of the decisions made by these bodies, and not they of the wisdom and advisability of his decisions.  A perusal of the Will and Testament makes this principle quite clear.

He is the Guardian of the Cause in the very fullness of that term, and the appointed interpreter of its teachings, and is guided in his decisions to do that which protects it and fosters its growth and highest interests.

He always has the right to step in and countermand the decisions of a National Assembly; if he did not possess this right he would be absolutely impotent to protect the Faith, just as the NSA, if it were divested of the right to countermand the decisions of a Local Assembly, would be incapable of watching over and guiding the national welfare of the Bahá’í community.  It very seldom happens—but it nevertheless does happen—that he feels impelled to change a major (as you put it) decision of an NSA; but he always unhesitatingly does so when necessary, and the NSA in question should gladly and unhesitatingly accept this as a measure designed for the good of the Faith which its elected representatives are so devotedly seeking to serve.

Regarding the position of Summer Schools in Australia:  much of what you are at present going through has already been experienced by the American Bahá’í community, and he sympathises with your views and problems; however, he wishes to state the following:

Whatever the history of the Yerrinbool School may be, the fact remains it is now in existence, is owned by believers ready to have it used as such, and is known as a Bahá’í Summer School all over the world.  The Guardian is not the least concerned with personalities in this matter, but with principles.  He feels at the present time that one Bahá’í Summer School is enough for the believers of Australia to maintain.  In the future, as Assemblies and groups multiply, the question will naturally have to be reconsidered.

Bahá’í Summer Schools in the United States originated in the same informal manner as Yerrinbool; they were (and some still are) the property of individual believers who resided on them, but they are administered by Committees appointed by the NSA and which usually include, out of courtesy and consideration, the owners.  The American friends also desired to have many more Summer Schools, but the Guardian has so far not permitted them to add to the number, as it dissipates the energy and funds of the believers and would at present weaken those already existing.

He feels that the duty of your Assembly is to not give up Yerrinbool because of any inharmony over it, but to administer and support it properly and remove the inharmony.  You should appoint a Committee for the School, purchase any extra equipment needed for the comfort and accommodation of the attendants, and he feels sure the Boltons will cooperate with you in this matter, as they are eager to have the property be used by the believers.  Generally speaking he does not encourage the erection of buildings in memory to individual believers at the present time.  But as those at Yerrinbool serve a useful purpose and that the memory of dear Father Dunn commemorates the life of the man who brought the Faith to the continent of Australia, we may welcome it in the spirit it was given.

As to what uses should be made of the building purchased by the LSA of Adelaide, he leaves the decision to your body and that Assembly.  He hopes that at a future date it can be used as a Summer School.

It is the duty of the NSA to exercise the greatest wisdom, forbearance and tact in handling the affairs of the Cause.  Many of the differences which arise between the believers are due to their immaturity, their extreme zeal and sincerity.

He will pray for you all in the Holy Shrines, that the Beloved may assist and strengthen you in the discharge of your sacred duties to the Faith and its adherents in Australia and New Zealand.

With Bahá’í Love,

R. Rabbani

Read and approved,

Shoghi

26 June 1945 [Australia and New Zealand]

DISAPPROVE TONE NATIONAL ASSEMBLYS RECENT COMMUNICATIONS.  DEPRECATE VIOLENT ACTION URGE CONCILIATION HARMONY OTHERWISE CONSEQUENCES GRAVE APPEAL CONCENTRATE CONSTRUCTIVE ACTION AIMED EXTENSION CONSOLIDATION ACHIEVEMENTS BELIEVERS SHOGHI RABBANI

10 July 1945 [Australia and New Zealand]

APPRECIATE SENTIMENTS PRAYING GUIDANCE OVERCOME OBSTACLES ACHIEVE COMPLETE UNITY SHOGHI RABBANI

8 August 1945 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

The beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer your letters dated June 12th, 15th and 25th, and to acknowledge receipt of the numerous enclosures you forwarded with them.

As he has already expressed to you in his recent messages he greatly regretted the tone of certain communications from the NSA.  He cannot too strongly point out to you all that any condition of inharmony places in jeopardy the wonderful achievements recently made in the spread and consolidation of the Cause in Australia and New Zealand.  The beloved Master pointed out over and over again that unity and love among the friends promotes harmony and the rapid spread of the Faith, and that when these are sacrificed and disputes, anger and violent criticism take their place the Cause cannot move forward.

The NSAs the world over, owing to the spiritual immaturity of the believers, must at the present time exert the greatest patience in dealing with the friends; otherwise, as seems to be rapidly becoming the case in Australia, the friends will take sides, bitterness will increase and what started out as a small thing (however unjustified and regrettable a departure from the Bahá’í spirit) will become a menace to the progress of the Faith and definitely retard its progress.

He feels that … and …, both of whom love their religion and are devoted to its promotion, should be called upon to forget and forgive the past, and concentrate on serving the Faith.  These are the ways in which the Bahá’ís can demonstrate true spiritual nobility and detachment.  In such delicate and complicated cases, the NSA should appeal to the believers to put the interests of the Cause first, regardless of any personal sacrifice of feelings this may require.

He assures you he will pray ardently for the speedy and satisfactory solution of this entire matter.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers:

It is my fervent hope and prayer that the members of the Bahá’í communities of Australia and New Zealand, will, now that the machinery of the Administrative Order of their Faith has been erected, redouble their efforts to proclaim, with one voice and in a most effective manner, those vital and healing principles for which the great mass of their war-weary and much tested countrymen are hungering.  This supreme issue must have precedence over all other considerations, must be given immediate and anxious attention, must be faced courageously and continually, and be regarded by individual believers as well as their elected representatives as the supreme objective of the manifold administrative institutions they have reared and are still labouring to establish.  Complete harmony, mutual understanding, unity of purpose, coordination of efforts, prayerful consideration of, and mature deliberation on, all the aspects and requirements of this great and sacred objective can alone ensure its triumphant consummation during these years of stress and peril through which mankind is passing.  May the national elected representatives of both communities set a superb example to their fellow-workers throughout that far-off continent, and enable them to win memorable victories in the service of their glorious Faith and its God-given institutions.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

22 March 1946 [Australia and New Zealand]

LOVING APPRECIATION REMEMBRANCE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY DEAR FRIENDS AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND SHOGHI

25 March 1946 [Australia and New Zealand]

CONVENTION SHOULD BE HELD DURING RIDVAN PERIOD SHOGHI

25 March 1946 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Your letters, written on behalf of the NSA and dated June 15th 1945, and 16th, July 26th and September 15th, 1945, and January 7th, 1946, together with their enclosures, have been received, and the Guardian has instructed me to answer them on his behalf.

He is very pleased to see the progress the Cause is making in Australia and New Zealand, and hopes that the NSA will not only inspire and encourage the believers in their teaching activities, but will also constantly impress on them the need for the greatest love and unity to prevail in their midst; the masses will only really turn to the Faith when they see that in it true religion is practiced as well as preached!

The recent articles attacking the Cause are a sign that its influence is sufficiently felt to be feared—a great compliment to the progress you are making in spreading the message!

Concerning the various points raised in your letters:

He noticed from your letter of January 7th, that you were planning to hold the annual Convention in May, and cabled you, that it must be held in the Riḍván period—as are all the other National Bahá’í conventions the world over,—even though some other date might be more convenient locally.  He feels that the Yerrinbool Summer School should hold longer sessions; in this respect the friends cannot do better than to pattern themselves on the American Summer Schools, some of which now hold two or three summer sessions, and even a “Winter Session”.  Although such a large number of sessions may be premature for Australia at present, the goal should be kept in mind as you seek to expand your school.

There can be no schism in the Bahá’í Faith because the Guardianship is established on an unassailable foundation, supported by a signed, sealed document—the Will.  Schism can only flourish where there is ambiguity or no specific proof.  The New History Society is like a branch that has no roots and will soon dry up and wither.  It has not caused, nor can it cause a breach among the believers.

He was very happy to see you are now establishing Regional Teaching Committees, and hopes you will concentrate all your resources and the energy of the friends, on establishing new Assemblies and groups.

He assures you, one and all, that his loving prayers will be offered for your guidance and for the success of your important work.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  He was very pleased to see the article on the Faith in “Truth”.  The Cause is certainly getting very good publicity out there!

Dear and valued co-workers:

The activities initiated by the dearly beloved friends in Australia and New Zealand, and so diligently promoted by them all are highly meritorious, and will, no doubt, bear abundant fruit in the days to come.  The utmost effort should be exerted by individuals as well as Local Assemblies to increase the number of the active supporters of the Faith and to enable them to disperse, to multiply the groups that must sooner or later evolve into Assemblies, to achieve greater publicity for the Faith through the radio and the press, to extend the range of the activities of the Bahá’í Faith, to foster the institution of the Summer School, and to consolidate and enlarge the scope of the Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds.

These are the main objectives that demand the concentrated attention of the Australian and New Zealand believers during the months that lie immediately ahead.  No sacrifice is too great to ensure the realisation of these noble aims.  All must arise and unitedly endeavour to carry to a successful conclusion these vital tasks, with which the immediate destinies of the Faith are so closely linked.  That the beloved may guide and sustain you in all your undertakings, that He may crown your assiduous labours with magnificent success is my dearest wish and ardent prayer.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

7 April 1946 [Australia and New Zealand]

APPROVE ONLY THIS YEAR SHOGHI

13 May 1946 [Australia and New Zealand]

HEARTFELT APPRECIATION MESSAGE CONVENTION PRAYING FERVENTLY BLESSINGS DELIBERATIONS URGE MATURE CONSULTATION INITIATION EFFECTIVE MEASURES DESIGNED MULTIPLY BAHAI CENTRES PROCLAIM TEACHINGS FAITH CONSOLIDATE EXISTING INSTITUTIONS SHOGHI

21 May 1946 [Australia and New Zealand]

MATTER REGARDING ELECTION NATIONAL ASSEMBLY SHOULD BE SETTLED BY OUTGOING ASSEMBLY SHOGHI

25 May 1946 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Your letter dated April 27th has been received and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.  He also acknowledges receipt of the enclosures forwarded with it.

He trusts that by the time this letter reaches you the complications which arose at Convention, about the election, will have been satisfactorily straightened out; as he already cabled you, this was a question for the out-going NSA to decide.

He feels that the National Spiritual Assembly during the coming year should focus both its and the believers’ attention on the all-important teaching work, and the necessity of increasing the number of groups and Assemblies throughout Australia and New Zealand.  The friends should be urged and encouraged to arise both as pioneers and travelling teachers, and they should

receive, in cases where they cannot afford it themselves, financial aid from the National Fund.  Such measures are at the present time absolutely necessary, as the believers are few, the hour very pressing, and most of them not sufficiently well-off to do such work without assistance.

The Bahá’ís in the United States have just embarked on their second Seven Year plan; India is working hard on a Four and a half Year Plan; England is straining every nerve to achieve, during the Six Year Plan the friends have chosen for themselves, 19 Assemblies.  It is only right and proper that such a vast and promising territory as Australia, New Zealand and Tasmania represents, should likewise win for itself new laurels in the Bahá’í teaching field during the next few years!  He therefore suggests you choose, after surveying your own possibilities and soliciting suggestions from the friends, certain immediate objectives, and then work unitedly towards achieving them.  He assures you that he will offer special prayers on your behalf, that the NSA members and the Bahá’ís they represent, may speedily forge ahead and enter into a new era of development of the Faith in that distant but promising land.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers:

The activities in which you are engaged, are the object of my fervent and constant prayers.  To teach the Faith, to stimulate the dispersal and settlement of pioneers, to enable the existing groups to attain Assembly status, and to multiply, steadily and speedily, the number of groups in Australia and New Zealand are the paramount tasks which demand the constant attention, the prayerful consideration and united and vigorous collaboration of the believers, and particularly of their national representatives.  No sacrifice is too great to further these manifold and noble aims and purposes.  Effective measures, unprecedented in scope, should be carefully and immediately devised, proclaimed to the believers, and, through sustained and organised effort, carried into effect.  There is no time to lose.  The masses, greatly tired by the calamities of the age, restless, disappointed, and eager to obtain real and complete relief in their hour of trial, hunger for the Message of the New Day, and will, if properly approached and appealed to, embrace the great verities it enshrines.  Firm and unassailable unity among those who profess to be its bearers, unshakeable fidelity to the principles on which it is founded, generous and unfailing support of the institutions designed to propagate it, are the vital prerequisites of their urgent and sacred task.  Every consideration, however profitable and laudable, must for the present be subordinated to the vital needs of the strenuous task now confronting the Australian and New Zealand Bahá’í communities.  The administrative machinery designed to provide the necessary

agency for the diffusion of the Message has been sufficiently consolidated to enable it to perform the glorious task for which it was originally erected.  It should be utilised to the fullest possible extent.  Its scope should simultaneously be enlarged to provide a still wider basis for the future extension of teaching activities.  May the coming year witness a notable advance in the organized activities of the community for the furtherance of so glorious and meritorious a purpose.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

30 May 1946 [Australia and New Zealand]

URGE NEW ASSEMBLY DEVISE EFFECTIVE MEASURES DESIGNED STIMULATE TEACHING ACTIVITY SETTLEMENT PIONEERS INCREASE GROUPS ASSEMBLIES PRAYING SUCCESS PARAMOUNT TASK SHOGHI

7 June 1946 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Spiritual Friend:

Your interesting letter of May 16th has been received and Shoghi Effendi has instructed me to answer you on his behalf and to assure you that he much appreciates your warm friendship with the Bahá’ís and the co-operative spirit in which you assist them in their activities.

As regards the various points you have raised in your letter:

We must not take many of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s statements as dogmatic finalities, for there are other points which when added to them round out the picture.  For instance, when He calls Aristotle and Plato Philosophers of the East, He is obviously placing them in that category because He believes they belong more correctly to Eastern culture than the Central European and the New World cultures of the West.  When He calls the philosophers of the West materialistic this does not for a moment mean He includes all Western philosophers for, as you truly point out, many of them have been very spiritual in their concepts.

When studying at present, in English, the available Bahá’í writings on the subject of body, mind and spirit, one is handicapped by a certain lack of clarity because not all were translated by the same person, and also there are, as you know, still many Bahá’í writings untranslated.  But there is no doubt that spirit and soul seem to have been interchanged in meaning sometimes; soul and mind have, likewise, been interchanged in meaning, no doubt due to difficulties arising from different translations.  What the Bahá’ís do believe though is that we have three aspects of our humanness, so to speak, a body, a mind and an immortal identity—soul or spirit.  We believe the mind forms a link between the soul and the body, and the two interact on each other.

Historians cannot be sure Socrates did not visit the Holy Land.  But believing as we do that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had an intuitive knowledge quite different from our own, we accept His authority on this matter.

We cannot prove man was always man for this is a fundamental doctrine, but it is based on the assertion that nothing can exceed its own potentialities, that everything, a stone, a tree, an animal and a human being existed in plan, potentially, from the very “beginning” of creation.  We don’t believe man has always had the form of man, but rather that from the outset he was going to evolve into the human form and species and not be a haphazard branch of the ape family.

You see our whole approach to each matter is based on the belief that God sends us divinely inspired Educators; what they tell us is fundamentally true, what science tells us today is true; tomorrow may be entirely changed to better explain a new set of facts.

When ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says man breaks the laws of nature, He means we shape nature to meet our own ends, as no animal does.  Animals adapt themselves to better fit in with and benefit from their environment.  But men both surmount and change environment.  Likewise when he says nature is devoid of memory he means memory as we have it, not the strange memory of inherited habits which animals so strikingly possess.

These various statements must be taken in conjunction with all the Bahá’í teachings; we cannot get a correct picture by concentrating on just one phrase.

The Guardian hopes this will better enable you to understand our wonderful Faith—for a living religion it is, and not merely a philosophy!

He wishes you every success in your labours to promote the unity and enlightenment of mankind, so sorely needed these days, and he will pray for your happiness and spiritual advancement.

With cordial greetings,

R. Rabbani

16 July 1946 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Your letter of June 20th has been received, and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf, also to acknowledge receipt of its enclosures.

He was very glad to see that amongst the actions taken by the NSA at its recent meeting was to allot sums to the Regional Teaching Committees for teaching campaigns and finance travelling teachers and settlers—if possible.  He considers this all very important, and he urges you to appeal to the Bahá’ís to arise and do pioneer work as their fellow believers are doing in England, India, Egypt, and America.

He also feels that, if the NSA considers such a course of action feasible, definite plans should be made for carrying the Cause to certain goal towns; in other words, a real plan with fixed objectives and a time limit is now possible for Australia, and should be speedily set in motion.

Likewise, he feels that the NSA should meet more often, even if all members cannot always be present.  Decisions by correspondence lack the vitality of those that arise out of active consultation, and now the Faith is progressing so well there, and has a sound administrative foundation, more vigorous and systematic action is required.

You may be sure all the members of the Assembly are remembered in his prayers, and he is supplicating for their guidance and success in the discharge of their sacred duties.

With loving greetings,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers:

The ever expanding activities of the Bahá’í communities of Australia and New Zealand, so clearly reflected in the reports and minutes forwarded recently by your Assembly demonstrate the character of the Faith which so powerfully animates you, testify to the loyalty, the vigour and the devotion with which you conduct the affairs of a continually growing Faith, proclaim the soundness of the foundation upon which you are rearing its institutions, and augur well for their future evolution and triumph.  The attention of the believers throughout all centres in both communities should now be focussed on the steady multiplication and consolidation of these institutions which constitute the bedrock of the Administrative Order of which your Assembly is the appointed trustee and chief promoter.  No sacrifice is too great for the promotion of such an urgent and vital task.  A supreme effort, on the part of all, young and old alike, individuals, Assemblies and committees, is absolutely essential in the course of the present year, and as a prelude to the initiation of future plans aiming at a still greater development and further enrichment of the life of both communities.  All secondary matters should be subordinated to the primary requirements of the present day.  The furtherance of this noble objective should be made the object of the anxious and sustained deliberations of your Assembly.  The resources of both communities should be devoted to such a purpose.  Nothing should be allowed to deflect them from this course.  If they persevere the blessings of the Almighty will enable them to achieve exploits far exceeding their fondest expectations.  That they may be graciously aided, in their labours, by Bahá’u’lláh is my fervent hope and prayer.  I feel confident that they will respond to my plea, and arise unitedly to achieve their immediate goal.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

31 July 1946 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter—with check enclosed-dated 15th of July was received and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He is very sorry that from here he is unable owing to existing regulations, to forward this loving contribution made by both the believers and the NSA to Persia for the Relief Fund.  He suggests you try to send it direct to Tehran to the treasurer of this Fund, Mr Varqa.  If you are able to do so, and will arrange to send the money to Mr Daoud Toeq, he will see it reaches Mr Varqa in Tehran.

Please assure the members of the NSA, and all the friends, of his deep appreciation of this gift to their sorely tried brethren in other lands.

You may be sure he often prays for the success of your work and that of all the NSA members.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for the success of your efforts in the service of our beloved Faith and of its divinely appointed institutions.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

23 February 1947 [Australia and New Zealand]

APPROVE NINETEEN DELEGATES SHOGHI

14 March 1947 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer your letters dated September 2nd and 16th, and October 22nd and 25th, 1946, and to acknowledge receipt of enclosures sent in some of them, and also material forwarded under separate cover.  He regrets very much the delay in replying to these NSA communications, but he has been very pre-occupied with various pressing matters the last few months, and his mail has consequently had to wait.

In regard to the various points you raised in your letters:

There is no objection to individual Bahá’ís sending Naw-Rúz cards if they want to; also the NSA can send them out occasionally, but it should not become a fixed custom.

He has already cabled you that he approved of increasing the delegates to the Annual Convention to 19.

He feels that Committees should be left free to elect their own officers.

Prayers translated by other people may be used and memorised by the friends; they need not be confined to his translations.

He considers that the NSA has every right to examine the ballots if there is some doubt as to the election having been properly conducted.  By “preservation” of the ballots is meant that they are preserved in the National files.

A Convention delegate should certainly be given an opportunity to report to the community his or her experiences at Convention and impressions.

As to the whole matter of the incorporation of Assemblies:  he cannot go into the details of such things, as this is the work of the NSA.  What he wants is that the spiritual Assemblies in New Zealand and Australia should be legally empowered to hold property in their own names; how this can be done, the best way of doing it, are matters for your Assembly and its legal advisers to decide.

He feels very strongly that the main thing for your Assembly and all the believers of both Australia and New Zealand to concentrate on are teaching plans.  The United States, India, Persia and England are all embarked on ambitious and bold teaching campaigns, and it is a great pity that Australia, where the Cause is now firmly established and boasts an active National Assembly, should not have a definite plan, with fixed goals, of its own.

When the believers are embarked on a definite teaching schedule there will be less time for them to constantly occupy themselves with purely secondary administrative points of procedure.  Teaching is their need, and the solution to any problems they may feel they have.

He was delighted over the report of the work in Brisbane; this is a step in the right direction, and should be followed through vigorously.  Please convey to those who have devotedly served there and brought this group into being his warm thanks and his admiration for their services.

You may be sure he deeply values the loyal and persevering efforts of your Assembly to promote the Faith in all its aspects in Australia and New Zealand.  His loving prayers are offered on your behalf and for the success of your labours.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers:

I wish to appeal, through you, to the members of the entire community in both Australia and New Zealand, to arise, in these opening years of the Second Bahá’í century, and lend, through their concerted, their sustained, and determined efforts, an unprecedented impetus to the growth of the Faith, the multiplication of its administrative centers, and the consolidation of its nascent institutions.  The initiation of a Plan, carefully devised, universally supported, and designed to promote effectively the vital interests of the Faith, and attain a definite objective within a specified number of years, would seem, at the

present hour, highly desirable and opportune, and will, as a magnet, attract, to an unprecedented degree, the blessings of Bahá’u’lláh on the members of both communities, both individually and collectively.

Now that the structural basis of the Bahá’í Administrative Order has been firmly and definitely laid in these far-away lands, and the National Headquarters of that Order established, a systematic effort must be exerted to widen the basis of that Order, by multiplying the Administrative institutions and forming the necessary nuclei, which, as they develop and are consolidated, will have to be utilized as the divinely ordained and most effectual instruments for the proclamation of the Faith to the masses.

I fully realize how small are your numbers, how circumscribed are your means, how vast the distances that separate the centres already established.  But I firmly believe that the initiation of a Plan to remedy the very deficiencies from which the infant Administrative Order is now suffering, and a firm resolve to carry out its provisions, as well as a sustained effort to make the necessary sacrifices for its consummation, will set in motion forces of such magnitude, and draw upon both communities blessings of such potency, as shall excite the wonder of the believers themselves, and cause their Faith to enter an era of unprecedented expansion and marvellous and fruitful development.

The concluding years of the first Bahá’í century have witnessed a notable progress in the development and consolidation of both communities.  The first decade of the succeeding century must synchronize with a no less remarkable extension of that essential administrative foundation on which the future institutions of a flourishing Faith must repose, and on which its destinies and security must ultimately depend.

May the spirit of Bahá’u’lláh guide, sustain and inspire you in the discharge of the noble and formidable tasks which will face you in the years to come.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

25 March 1947 [Australia and New Zealand]

LOVING APPRECIATION REMEMBRANCE SHRINES SHOGHI

7 April 1947 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Our beloved Guardian has instructed me to write and ask you to please forward to him copies of the letters of acknowledgment written by the Bishops who received copies of “God Passes By”.

He read in the British News Letter that such letters had been received by your Assembly, and he feels that such material should always be forwarded (in copy) to Haifa, as it is of more than mere local importance.

He hopes the NSA is progressing with its teaching plans, and assures you all of his loving prayers.

With Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

26 June 1947 [Australia and New Zealand]

ACCLAIM NEW PLAN CONCEIVED AUSTRALIAN NEW ZEALAND BAHAI COMMUNITY.  ADVISE REDUCE PERIOD TO SIX YEARS IN ORDER TERMINATION COINCIDE ONE HUNDREDTH ANNIVERSARY BIRTH BAHAULLAHS PROPHETIC MISSION.  APPEAL BOTH COMMUNITIES ARISE UNITEDLY DETERMINEDLY ENSURE SUCCESS PLAN MARKING OPENING NEW EPIC DEVELOPMENT FAITH BAHAULLAH ANTIPODES.  PRAYING ARDENTLY CONSUMMATION DEAREST HOPES.  CABLING FIVE HUNDRED POUNDS MY CONTRIBUTION PROMOTION PLAN DEEPEST LOVING GRATITUDE SHOGHI

22 July 1947 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

The letters from the NSA (some written by the former Secretary) dated September 2nd, 1946, February 10th, March 9th, April 27th (two of this date), June 13th and July 10th have been received, as well as their enclosures, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer them on his behalf.

He is very anxious that your Assembly should devote its energies and resources to prosecuting the teaching work and stimulating and encouraging the believers to devote their thoughts and time to it.  This is really the solution to all the small problems and differences of opinion that arise in Australia.  It is the sacred duty of the believers to teach, and one of the reasons for so painstakingly building up Assemblies is for them to promulgate the Cause of God, and not to lose their time in discussing details, settling disputes which should not have arisen between Bahá’ís, and generally losing themselves in personalities.

He urges your Assembly to try and create as many Local Assemblies as possible; large suburbs, if outside the city limits and possessing their own administration should—if 9 Bahá’ís reside in them, form separate assemblies.  This may at first seem to weaken the larger communities; but it will also challenge all concerned to renew their labours to expand the local communities and increase their numbers.

Enclosed is a letter to Mr Featherstone in connection with his letter sent to the Guardian by your Assembly.

Regarding … appeal; the Guardian feels the best course of action in this matter is to ask both the believers concerned to forgive and forget the entire matter.

He does not want the friends to form the habit of taking up a kind of Bahá’í litigation against each other.  Their duties to humanity are too sacred and urgent in these days, when the Cause is struggling to spread and assert its independence, for them to spend their precious time, and his precious time, in this way.  Ask them, therefore, to unite, forget the past, and serve as never before.

His loving prayers are offered for you and the other members of the Assembly, for your guidance and success.

With warm greetings,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers:

The Plan, on which the National elected representatives of the Bahá’í communities of Australia and New Zealand have spontaneously embarked marks a turning-point, of great spiritual significance, in the evolution of the Faith in those far-off lands, and is an evidence of the truly remarkable spirit that animates them as well as the communities they represent.  I welcome this mighty step they have taken with joy, pride and gratitude, and have hastened to transmit to them my contribution as a token of my keen appreciation of their high endeavours, of my confidence in their ability, and of my admiration for their zeal and noble determination in the service of the Faith.  The attention of the members of both communities must henceforth be focused on the Plan, its progress, its requirements, its significance and immediate objectives.  All must participate without exception without reserve, without delay.  The Administrative Order which they have laboured to establish must henceforth, through its organs and agencies be utilized for the promotion of this vital purpose, this supreme end.  For no other purpose was it created.  That it may serve this end, that the Plan may speedily develop and yield its destined fruit and demonstrate through its consummation the worthiness, the capacity and high-mindedness of the organized body of the followers of Bahá’u’lláh in those distant lands are the objects of my fervent and constant prayers at the Holy Shrines.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

6 December 1947 [Australia and New Zealand]

OVERJOYED GLORIOUS NEWS MAGNIFICENT PLAN ALL IMPORTANT TEACHING WORK DEEPEST ADMIRATION EXEMPLARY SPIRIT CABLING FIVE HUNDRED POUNDS MY CONTRIBUTION REALISATION NOBLE PURPOSE ARDENTLY PRAYING SUCCESS DEEPEST LOVE SHOGHI

4 April 1948 [Australia and New Zealand]

KINDLY AIR MAIL AFTER APRIL ELECTIONS SEPARATE UP TO DATE ALPHABETICAL LISTS ASSEMBLIES GROUPS ISOLATED BELIEVERS AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND TASMANIA SHOGHI

4 May 1948 [Australia and New Zealand]

ASSURE DELEGATES LOVING FERVENT PRAYERS SUCCESS DELIBERATIONS FULFILMENT HOPES URGE PERSEVERANCE ENSURE VICTORIOUS CONCLUSION PLAN SHOGHI

11 May 1948 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated December 11th, 1947, has been received, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The devotion and perseverance of the believers in seeking to meet the requirements of their Plan pleases and touches him immensely, and although he fully realizes that the fewness of their numbers and the great distances involved in such a vast country as Australia, form serious handicaps in the progress of their teaching work, he, nevertheless, feels confident that they can achieve their goals in time, and raise their heads proudly in the galaxy of their fellow-pioneers the world over.

We can truly say that this Cause is a cause that enables people to achieve the impossible!  For the Bahá’ís, everywhere, for the most part, are people with no great distinguishments of either wealth or fame, and yet once they make the effort and go forth in the name of Bahá’u’lláh to spread His Faith, they become, each one, as efficacious as a host!  Witness what Mustafa Raumie accomplished in Burma, and a handful of pioneers achieved, in a decade, in Latin America!  It is the quality of devotion and self-sacrifice that brings rewards in the service of this Faith rather than means, ability or financial backing.

This has again, during the last few years, been demonstrated even more remarkably by the British Bahá’ís, who have not only had to contend with very limited means and a small community to draw from, but have also had infinite restrictions and privations to put up with—and, in spite of this, they are steadily gaining on the requirements of the Plan they have set for themselves, and, indeed, are startling and inspiring their fellow-Bahá’ís everywhere by their spirit and achievements!

He hopes that now, from “down under”, news will begin to flow out to the Bahá’í world of the remarkable accomplishments of the Australians and New Zealanders!

Regarding the question you asked him about the Bahá’í sacred writings:  these should be regarded as the writings of the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-

Bahá and only these should be read during the purely devotional part of the Feast.

He wishes to assure you, and all the other members of the NSA, of his most loving and ardent prayers for the success of your various undertakings and above all, for the success of your teaching plan.

With warmest greetings,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers,

The Plan launched by the small yet highly promising community of devoted believers in Australia and New Zealand constitutes a landmark of unusual significance in the history of the evolution of the Faith in that far-off continent.  It opens a new chapter, rich in promise, momentous in the events which it must record, and destined to be regarded as a prelude to still more glorious chapters in the annals of the Faith in the Antipodes.

The limited resources at the disposal of the prosecutors of the Plan, the vastness of the territory in which it must operate, the fewness of the numbers of those participating in its execution, offer a mighty challenge which no loyal follower of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh can either ignore or minimize.  Indeed the greater the challenge, the more bountiful the blessings which will be vouchsafed from on high, and the richer the reward to be won by its triumphant executors.  The successful termination of this Plan, the first fruit of the newly established and properly functioning Administrative Order in those distant lands, will pave the way for the launching of still greater enterprises, destined to carry the message of Bahá’u’lláh to the Islands of the Pacific in the vicinity of that continent.  For the mission entrusted to the care of the Faith in Australia and New Zealand is by no means confined to the mainland of Australia and the islands of New Zealand, but should embrace, as it unfolds, in the years to come, the islands of the Antipodes, where the banner of the Faith still remains to be unfurled and its Message is as yet undelivered.

It is not for them, however, at the present stage of their evolution, to probe into the future, and seek to evaluate the range of their future achievements.  They must concentrate every ounce of their energy, and focus their entire attention, on the tasks immediately ahead, resolved to work unremittingly and unflinchingly until the goals of the present Plan are achieved.

Whatever the situation that may develop in the years to come, however great the obstacles by which a nascent community may yet be faced, no matter how arduous the task now confronting its members, it must persevere until the historic work is accomplished.

I will, from the depths of my heart, supplicate the Beloved to reinforce the noble exertions of this community, guide its steps, clarify its vision, deepen its

understanding of the requirements of the present hour, and aid it to extend continually the scope of its meritorious achievements.

My heart longs to receive the news of the progress of this first collective enterprise on which the community has embarked, and I feel confident that its stalwart members will not allow the hopes that animate me to be frustrated.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

30 May 1948 [Australia and New Zealand]

DEEPLY APPRECIATE INCOMING ASSEMBLYS NOBLE DETERMINATION PRAYING SIGNAL VICTORIES MOMENTOUS PLAN DEEPEST LOVE SHOGHI

29 July 1948 [Australia and New Zealand]

PRAYING SUCCESS CONFERENCE CABLE LATEST DEVELOPMENTS PROGRESS TEACHING PLAN ADVISE HOLD MAIL TILL WAY OPENS DEEPEST APPRECIATION HIGH MERITORIOUS EFFORTS LOVING ADMIRATION PERSEVERANCE SHOGHI

13 August 1948 [Australia and New Zealand]

DELIGHTED PROGRESS ACHIEVE URGE CONCENTRATE IMMEDIATE EFFORTS FORMATION ASSEMBLIES BRISBANE PERTH ALL SAFE LOVING APPRECIATION SHOGHI

19 August 1948 [Australia and New Zealand]

ASSURE NEW ZEALAND FRIENDS HEARTY APPROVAL PRAYING SUCCESS MERITORIOUS ENTERPRISE SHOGHI

21 August 1948 [Australia and New Zealand]

APPROVE PRINTING BRILLIANT PROOF SHOGHI RABBANI

15 September 1948 [Australia and New Zealand]

ADMIT PERDU SHOGHI

22 November 1948 [Australia and New Zealand]

DELIGHTED MAGNIFICENT PROGRESS FERVENT PRAYERS OFFERED SHRINES SUCCESS ASSEMBLIES DELIBERATIONS DEEPEST LOVE SHOGHI RABBANI

30 December 1948 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The letter written by our dear Bahá’í brother, Mr Jim Heggie, as secretary at that time, and dated May 5th, as well as those written by you, and dated

July 17th, December 4th, 6th (two of this date), and 9th, together with their various enclosures, have been received, and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer your Assembly on his behalf.

He was very happy to hear of your meeting held in Melbourne, as he feels sure this was a great stimulus to the local community, and he hopes that circumstances will permit the NSA to meet in other communities and inspire and encourage the friends in different parts of the country by this personal contact with them and their work.

In regard to the various matters raised in your letters:

He would be pleased to receive reports of the Teaching Work, the Annual Convention and Annual Reports, and, of course, the minutes of your NSA meetings.

He does not feel it advisable to combine more than one town area in an Assembly, as you have suggested might be done.  It is better for the friends to move, if possible, into one town’s limits, and form their Assembly that way, or concentrate on their teaching work and wait until they have the requisite 9 members.

Unfortunately it is not feasible for the believers to elect or constitute an Assembly and also elect and send delegates to the Annual Convention of the same year, as both events take place in the Riḍván period.

The Guardian is striving to build up uniformity in essentials all over the Bahá’í world, and this frequently involves a small measure of delay in achieving our various goals set locally.  But he considers it sufficiently important to warrant the sacrifices it sometimes involves:

In this connection he would like to mention your Local By-Laws:  He feels that they should conform much more closely to the original one of the New York Assembly.  What is absolutely essential was incorporated in those, and all other Local Assemblies being incorporated should follow this pattern as closely as local legal technicalities permit.  This again is in order to maintain international uniformity in essentials.  It is not a question here of whether the By-Laws drawn up by your Legal Committee are not more up to date and do not represent the last word, undoubtedly they are and do, but if every country, when drawing up its Local By-Laws, continues this process of elaboration, in the end uniformity will be lost.  The Eastern Assemblies have adhered to the original By-Laws so carefully that they have practically translated them word for word and adopted them.  He feels sure Mr Dive will understand this, and he would like you to please express to him his deep appreciation of the excellent work he has done in this connection, truly a labour of love to the Faith.

There is also another, perhaps even more pertinent reason, why he does not want anything more added to these New York By-Laws, and that is that he is everywhere urging the believers—the Americans included—to not add procedures and rulings to the Cause.  He considers that what he has laid down

in Bahá’í Administration is essential, but that practically everything else is secondary and he wishes the Assemblies, your own included, to deal with things with elasticity, as they come up, case by case, and not by continually passing new rulings to cover all similar cases.

The efforts being made by your Assembly to carry out the Teaching Plan for Australia and New Zealand, and the ever-increasing response of the believers in both places to this all-important work, greatly encourage and cheer him.  He feels sure a very great future lies in store for our beloved Faith in those distant regions, but much more still remains to be done by the friends in order to complete this first, historic and vital, organized Plan of theirs.  He feels sure they will see it through to victory; just as their brothers and sisters in other lands, working also on Plans of their own, are determined to achieve all their goals at the appointed time, so must they persevere and ensure a resounding victory for the Faith there in the Antipodes.

His loving prayers are offered in the Holy Shrines very often for the success of your work, and that God may bless you and all the members of the National Assembly in the discharge of your important duties.

With Bahá’í love,

Yours in His service,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  I wish to also acknowledge receipt of the letter of your Assembly’s Treasurer, dated December 23rd, and to thank you, on behalf of the Guardian, for your loving contribution to the International Fund here in Haifa.  He regrets the delay in getting this off to you, but has been too busy to attend to it owing to work in connection with the Shrine here.  Kindly give the enclosed receipt to Mr Tunks.

Dear and valued co-workers:

Recent communications and reports from your Assembly have revealed, in a very striking manner, the magnificent progress achieved by the alert, the faithful, and truly distinguished communities of the followers of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh in Australia, New Zealand and Tasmania.  The range of their labours, the rapid consolidation of their swiftly multiplying institutions, the soundness and solidity of the foundations, on which they are erecting these institutions, the exemplary loyalty they demonstrate, the solidarity and self-sacrifice, the courage and confidence they display in their incessant and manifold activities, prove, beyond the shadow of a doubt that the Faith they love and serve so nobly and efficiently has at last been firmly and unassailably established in the Antipodes, and that its upholders and defenders in those far-away yet highly promising islands are contributing a notable and never-to-be-forgotten share to the onward march and unfoldment of its world Administrative Order.

I desire to offer the members of this high-minded, this resolute and dearly-beloved community, and particularly its elected representatives, my heartfelt

congratulations on their splendid achievements which posterity will recognize as deeds that have truly enriched and adorned the annals of the Faith in the opening years of the second Bahá’í century.

As the processes impelling a rapidly evolving Order on the highroad of its destiny multiply and gather momentum, attention should be increasingly directed to the vital need of ensuring, by every means possible, the deepening of the faith, the understanding and the spiritual life of the individuals who, as the privileged members of this community, are called upon to participate in this glorious unfoldment, and are lending their assistance to this historic evolution.  A profound study of the Faith which they have espoused, its history, its spiritual as well as administrative principles; a thorough understanding of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh and of the Will of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, a deeper realization of the implications of the claims advanced by the Founders of the Faith; strict adherence to the laws and principles which they have established; a greater dedication to the fundamentals and verities enshrined in their teachings—these constitute, I feel convinced, the urgent need of the members of this rapidly expanding community.  For upon this spiritual foundation must depend the solidity of the institutions which they are now so painstakingly erecting.  Every outward thrust into new fields, every multiplication of Bahá’í institutions, must be paralleled by a deeper thrust of the roots which sustain the spiritual life of the community and ensure its sound development.  From this vital, this ever-present need, attention must at no time be diverted; nor must it be, under any circumstances, neglected, or subordinated to the no less vital and urgent task of ensuring the outer expansion of Bahá’í administrative institutions.  That this community, so alive, so devoted, so strikingly and rapidly developing, may maintain a proper balance between these two essential aspects of its development, and march forward with rapid strides and along sound lines toward the goal of the Plan it has adopted, is the ardent hope of my heart and my constant prayer.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

21 January 1949 [Australia and New Zealand]

ADVISE REGARD ASSEMBLY BASIS CIVIL LIMITS LETTER EXPLAINING MATTER MAILED SHOGHI RABBANI

28 February 1949 [Australia and New Zealand]

ASSEMBLY MEMBERS LOVINGLY GRATEFULLY REMEMBERED SHRINES PRAYING FERVENTLY UNPRECEDENTED SUCCESS TEACHING ACTIVITIES SHOGHI RABBANI

20 March 1949 [Australia and New Zealand]

APPRECIATE GREETINGS ASSEMBLY AND DEARLY BELOVED BELIEVERS REMEMBERED SHRINES SUPPLICATING BLESSINGS SHOGHI RABBANI

1 April 1949 [Australia and New Zealand]

CABLE NUMBER ASSEMBLIES GROUPS ISOLATED BELIEVERS AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND ALSO NUMBER EXPECTED ASSEMBLIES COMING RIDVAN SHOGHI RABBANI

22 August 1949 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letters dated February 23; March 14, 16; April 4, 5, 11; May 2, 13, 27, June 1, 7, 21 (3 of this date), 24; have all been received, as well as their enclosures, and the material sent under separate cover, and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He has gone over the copy of the By-Laws of a Local Assembly which you sent him, and he approves of the slight changes you have made in the wording, as well as the additions at the very beginning, providing you consider the addition essential in order to secure the government recognition you are going to seek in the future.  However, he feels that Article VI is not correct in the form you have given it, because you state “all persons resident … who have attained the age of 15 years”.  The original New York By-Laws are more correct, because they differentiate clearly between all members of the community and voting members who are 21 years of age or more.  In other words children under 15 years are Bahá’ís according to the New York version, which is correct, but according to your version only people over 15 years are Bahá’ís which is not correct.  He thinks you should go back to the New York version.  The declaration of faith by children when they reach the age of 15 in the United States is in order to enable the American Youth to apply for exemption, under the American laws, from active military service.  It has no other purpose, but in that country is expedient.  It is not necessary to add such a clause to your By-Laws.

Other points which he feels are not necessary and should be deleted are those heavily underlined portions in Section 5 of Article XII and Article XIII.  In both these cases the New York By-Laws should be followed and not added to.  Likewise he feels that in Article XIV, under the heading “These By-Laws (on page 11) B and C should be deleted as they are not in the New York original and not necessary.  Naturally, all Assemblies are under NSA jurisdiction, but this need not be included.

He wishes the essentials to be maintained as per the New York By-Laws, but not amplified and added to, as this will gradually lead, all over the Bahá’í world, to a steady addition of unessential rules and restrict the freedom

and plasticity of the Cause.  As he has repeatedly told the American and other National Assemblies, it is much better to deal with situations and new requirements as they arise, and not to have it all down in black and white and rigid before hand.

He is very happy to see you are steadily working towards the goal of having Local Assemblies empowered to hold property legally and to perform Bahá’í marriages.  No doubt the act of the Canadian Parliament recently passed, and giving the Canadian NSA legal status, will act as an important precedent when the time is ripe for you to present your own petitions to your Government.

The news that there is now a Spiritual Assembly in every capital city of the various states in Australia pleased him immensely.  This is an historic land-mark in your progress out there, and must act as a keen incentive to further exploits on the part of the Australian Bahá’ís.

He was also delighted to see that certain of the Bahá’ís have received official permission not to work on Bahá’í Holy Days.  He admires the initiative these believers have shown, and hopes many others will follow their example.

Likewise, he was very pleased to see you are holding your NSA meetings in various centres, as this will greatly stimulate the local work, draw the friends closer to your body, and promote unity and enthusiasm amongst them.  The Act of your Assembly of depriving … of his voting rights was wise and correct.  Unless he demonstrates an entire change of character he certainly cannot claim to be a member of any Bahá’í Community.

He appreciated the Secretary’s forwarding to him copies of the Bishop’s letters acknowledging receipt of “God Passes By”—though their answers in no way imply any spiritual wakefulness on their parts, alas!

He was very happy to see that New Zealand friends were present at the Convention.  In general the work in New Zealand is certainly progressing, and beginning to show really promising signs for the immediate future.

The generous donation of land to Yerrinbool School by Mr Styles will certainly re-enforce that valuable Bahá’í property, and the Guardian very much appreciated this act of his.

His confidence in, and admiration for, the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand is steadily increasing, as he witnesses the enthusiasm and self-confidence of the believers out there, and the increased capacity of their National Body to handle wisely and capably the affairs of the Cause.

He assures you all, and through you the believers, of his loving prayers for your success and the attainment of all the goals of your historic Plan.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers:

The notable progress achieved in recent months, in so many fields and in spite of adverse circumstances, demonstrates afresh the vitality of the faith and the soundness of the outlook, of the members of the fast-advancing and steadily consolidating community of the followers of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh in Australia, New Zealand and Tasmania.  This remarkable process of expansion and consolidation augurs well for the ultimate success of the Plan to which the combined resources of this community are committed.  The various reports, both local and national which I have perused with sustained interest and quickened admiration, attest the rapid and sound development, of the institutions of a Faith that is so rich in promise, and whose interests are being promoted with such devotion, energy, loyalty and consecration by the members of this community.

What has been achieved, in both the teaching field and in the administrative sphere of Bahá’í service, however is but a stepping stone to the still greater victories which the gradual unfoldment of the Plan must inevitably produce.  The multiplication of the groups and Assemblies that constitute the bedrock of the Faith, must accompany the consolidating process which must bring in its wake, on the one hand, the incorporation of these Assemblies and their recognition by the civil authorities, and the establishment, on the other, of Bahá’í local endowments and the right of these Assemblies to execute, officially, the fundamental laws of the Most Holy Book regarding both marriage and divorce that constitute the distinguishing feature of this most holy and august Dispensation.

The task undertaken is immense, fraught with momentous possibilities, highly delicate in nature, and bound to have far-reaching repercussions, not only in the West, and particularly in the continent of Europe, where the institutions of Bahá’u’lláh’s Administrative Order are emerging with such rapidity and showing such promise, but on the continent of Asia, where the overwhelming majority of the followers of the Most Great Name, have endured such grievous afflictions, and are faced with grave peril, and are battling so heroically against the forces of darkness with which they are encompassed.

The nature of the work in which this wide-awake, untrammelled, unprejudiced, freedom-loving community, is so energetically engaged, cannot, therefore, be regarded as a purely local and isolated enterprise, but is vitally linked with the fortunes of a world-encircling Order, functioning mysteriously in both the Eastern and Western Hemispheres, highly organized in its administrative machinery, sensitive in its features, revolutionizing in its implications, and destined to seek increasingly, as it expands and develops, the good-will and assistance of the civil authorities in every continent of the globe.

The number of pioneers, both from among the veterans of the Faith who have participated in the early establishment of this infant Order in the Antipodes,

and the new believers who have embraced its Cause, must, if this task is to be successfully carried out, be substantially increased.  The flow of funds to both the local and national treasuries must correspondingly be augmented and systematically sustained.  The heroism and self-sacrifice of those who prosecute the Plan, both as administrators and pioneers, must attain greater heights and engender still more powerful forces in the spiritual life of this community.

The relationship binding it to the civil authorities of the Australian Commonwealth, the Dominion of New Zealand and the Island of Tasmania, must be assiduously fostered.  The ties linking it with the members of the world-wide community of the adherents of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh, must be rapidly strengthened and multiplied.  The unity and solidarity of its constituent members must be simultaneously reinforced, its roots permanently planted in the soil of the Covenants of both Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, its branches spread out irresistibly to the furthest ends of that far-off continent, its vision clarified, its determination reaffirmed and its consecration deepened.

Obstacles, varied and numerous, will no doubt arise to impede the onward march of this community.  Reverses may temporarily dim the radiance of its mission.  The forces of religious orthodoxy may well, at a future date, be leagued against it.  The exponents of theories and doctrines fundamentally opposed to its religious tenets and social principles may challenge its infant strength with persistence and severity.  The Administrative Order—the Ark destined to preserve its integrity and carry it to safety—must without delay, without exception, claim the attention of the members of this community, its ideals must be continually cherished in their hearts, its purposes studied and kept constantly before their eyes, its requirements wholeheartedly met, its laws scrupulously upheld, its institutions unstintingly supported, its glorious mission noised abroad, and its spirit made the sole motivating purpose of their lives.

Then and only then, will this community, so young, so vibrant with life, so rich in promise, so dedicated to its task, be in a position to discharge adequately its weighty responsibilities, to reap the full harvest it has sown, acquire still greater potentialities for the conduct of subsequent stages in the crusade on which it has embarked, and contribute, to a degree unsuspected as yet by its members, its full share to the World-wide establishment of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh, the emancipation of its Oriental followers, the recognition of its independence, the birth of its World Order and the emergence of that world civilisation which that Order is destined to create.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

4 September 1949 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

This is just a little note to ask you, on behalf of our beloved Guardian, to please make the following corrections in a quotation of his words, published in the August number of your “Bahá’í News Bulletin”, on page 5:  “As the processes impelling” (not “in filling”); in the sentence lower down, reading:  “the deepening of the faith, understanding and spiritual life …” both “faith” and “spiritual” should not be capitalized, but be printed as I have written them above; above the words “this historic evolution” there should be a period, as it is the end of the sentence.

Hoping you received the long letter recently mailed you, and with loving Bahá’í greetings,

Yours,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  He wishes to thank you and dear Mr Bolton for the loving gift of Bolton Place to the Bahá’í Community of Australia.  This is an excellent example, and befitting gesture, for it has many associations with the spread and development of the Faith in Australia, and has further enriched the record of your historic services to the Faith.

25 November 1949 [Australia and New Zealand]

HEARTILY CONGRATULATE NEW ZEALAND COMMUNITY PURCHASE PROPERTY SCHOOL ADVISE NAME HYDE DUNN PERPETUATE MEMORY SPIRITUAL CONQUEROR AUSTRALASIA SHOGHI

29 December 1949 [Australia and New Zealand]

GRIEVED PASSING PRECIOUS PIONEER PROMOTER FAITH MRS AXFORD PRAYING FERVENTLY SHRINES PROGRESS SOUL ABHA KINGDOM HER SERVICES UNFORGETTABLE SHOGHI

29 December 1949 [Australia and New Zealand]

DO NOT SEND ANY PAPERS REPLIED ADELAIDE LETTER ALREADY SHOGHI

9 April 1950 [Australia and New Zealand]

PROMPTLY PREPARE MAP SHOWING ASSEMBLIES GROUPS ISOLATED CENTRES AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND TASMANIA AIRMAIL HAIFA SHOGHI

28 June 1950 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letters of August 9, 19; September 14, 22; November 7, 10, 21; of 1949; January 19; February 28; March 8, 31; April 11; May 2 (two), 1950, have been

received by our beloved Guardian and he has instructed me to answer them on his behalf.  The many enclosures and material forwarded have, likewise, been safely received.

It has been impossible for our Guardian to keep abreast of his correspondence and other work this Winter and Spring.  It is only during the last week that he has been able to turn to the mountain of mail, representing the correspondence of the various National Assemblies, and commence replying.  The reason for this regrettable delay is that in order to get the arcade of the Shrine of the Báb finished in time for the centenary of His Martyrdom he had to undertake extensive excavations into the solid rock of the mountain behind the Shrine—the new edifice being much larger than the precious original building it is designed to enshrine and protect.  This work he personally supervised in order to ensure the Shrine was in no way damaged, and to see the cost was kept within bounds.  You can imagine this was a very exacting and tiring ordeal for him.

Then, just as he had hoped to take up his overburdening correspondence, Mr Maxwell, the architect of the Shrine, at the beginning of April became desperately ill, and for ten weeks absorbed the anxious care and attention of us all, as his condition was seemingly hopeless.  Thanks to the Mercy of Bahá’u’lláh and the determination of the Guardian, he is recovering and our lives are getting back to normal routine.

The Guardian regrets very much the conduct of ….  No one who conducts himself as he has can remain a voting member of the Bahá’í Community for—in spite of his wide knowledge of the Faith and his belief in it—his acts are contrary to its teachings and bring not only confusion into the Community and create inharmony, but disgrace the Cause in the eyes of non-Bahá’ís.

The Guardian fully realizes that the process of splitting up large communities into smaller ones, each existing within its own civil units, has been difficult for the Australian friends.  What they do not seem to fully appreciate is that this has been done in Canada and the United States as well, and is only in order to organize the Assemblies on a logical basis, and one with a firmer legal foundation.  The fact that this may create more Assemblies in the end, and that it sometimes breaks up existing ones, is only incidental; the important point is to consolidate the communities on a sound basis, i.e. every Assembly within the limits of the Municipality its members reside in.

As Mrs Axford requested Mrs Thomas to write about her Bahá’í life there is every reason to respect her wishes.  This in no way precludes the New Zealand Community from writing about her services and life and keeping this record in the National archives.  The Guardian feels the Auckland Assembly should be consulted, as her, (Mrs Axford’s), home community, by Mrs Thomas.  He hopes this In Memoriam article, about so dear and tireless a servant of the Faith, will produce a spirit of love and co-operation amongst all concerned.

The gift by Miss Perks of an additional piece of land to the Yerrinbool School is deeply appreciated.  It enriches the endowments already held by your Assembly.  Please thank Miss Perks, on behalf of the Guardian, for this generous contribution, to the institutions of the Faith in Australia, and tell her he does not feel any name should be given the property other than of Yerrinbool School, of which it will form a part, and that she will always be remembered as the donor of it.

The acquisition of the site for the New Zealand Summer School was a great step forward in the progress of the Faith there, and he was very pleased about it.  He was also delighted to hear of the formation of the Devonport Assembly, and he hopes next year there will be still more.

I would also like to answer here a question raised in Mrs Bolton’s letter of March 8:  the Guardian feels that no annual fixed pilgrimage should be made to the grave of Father Dunn.  The friends will naturally always want to go there, when and how they like, but it must not become a ceremony, otherwise it will constitute a precedent for similar things in the future.

It is premature, and will weaken the national and local work, for delegates to be elected by State elections rather than by Assemblies.  There is no question involved about believers losing their voting rights:  all the time believers are gaining and losing their voting rights by becoming members of communities with Assemblies or moving out into places where they are isolated believers.  The friends should not dwell on these minor details, but concentrate on teaching the Cause and exemplifying the Bahá’í life.  Voting is a purely administrative detail, but teaching and serving are vital spiritual obligations.  Regarding the change of the By-Laws:  the Guardian considers the letter he wrote you about this subject is final.  He is considerably surprised by the fact that of all the National Bodies in the Bahá’í world, operating under these By-Laws, it is only the Assembly of Australia and New Zealand, evidently acting under pressure from their legal committee, that constantly raises the question of changing them.  This he considers is going too far, and is not necessary.  He holds very bright hopes for the future of your work, and urges you, and through you all the believers, to concentrate on your glorious teaching tasks and forge ahead to win new victories for the beloved Faith.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  Your letter of June 9 has been received, and the Guardian deeply appreciates the contribution you sent.  Please find receipt enclosed.  The map

you forwarded will be published in the next volume of “Bahá’í World” as the progress it shows will be of great interest to all readers.

Dear and valued co-workers:

The remarkable progress achieved by the Bahá’í communities in Australia, New Zealand and Tasmania in promoting the Plan, designed to further the interests of the Faith in the Antipodes, is most encouraging, and will, when consummated, mark the opening of a new and glorious chapter in the history of the Faith in that continent.  The varied and welcome evidences of the steady extension in the range of the manifold activities of these communities, the multiplication of Bahá’í institutions and their rapid consolidation, are particularly gratifying and merit the highest praise.

The territories in which these communities conduct their meritorious, strenuous and highly promising activities with such diligence, resolution, fidelity and devotion, are admittedly vast and constitute a direct challenge to those who are called upon to diffuse the light of the Faith, and lay an unassailable foundation for its rising Administrative Order, throughout the length and breadth of these territories.

The Plan, now operating with increasing momentum in that far-off continent, is designed to enable its prosecutors to lay the first foundations of the structure which the members of these communities must rear in the years to come.  As these primary pillars of a divinely ordained steadily evolving, spiritually propelled order are successively erected and sufficiently consolidated, and the agencies designed for the launching of a systematic campaign aiming at the future proclamation of the Faith to the masses inhabiting these far-flung territories multiply, a simultaneous effort should be exerted, and measures should be carefully devised, by the national elected representatives of these same communities, for the launching of the initial enterprises destined to carry the Message of the Faith, beyond the confines of these territories, to the Islands of the Pacific, lying in their immediate neighbourhood.

For whatever may be the nature of the future successive crusades which the American and Canadian Bahá’í communities, may, under the Divine Plan of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, launch in the course of the opening decades of the second Bahá’í century, and however extensive the range of their operations, and no matter how far-reaching the future campaigns which the Bahá’í community, centred in the heart of the British Isles, may undertake throughout the widely-scattered dependencies of the British Crown, the responsibility devolving upon the National elected representatives of the Bahá’ís of the Australasian continent for the introduction of the Faith and its initial establishment in the Islands of the Pacific, linking them, on the one hand, with their sister communities in the

American continents and on the other hand, with the communities in South-Eastern Asia, remains clear and inescapable.

As the various Bahá’í national communities, labouring directly as well as indirectly, under the impulse of a Divine Plan, broaden and consolidate the base of their operations in their respective homelands, and acquire the potentialities that will empower them to lend, in an ever-increasing measure, their share, and participate in the world-wide propagation of the Faith, the Australian and New Zealand believers must, for their part, contribute worthily to the overseas teaching activities and accomplishments of these communities.  Already the Bahá’í community in the Great Republic of the West, the vanguard of the irresistibly marching army of Bahá’u’lláh, has launched its twin crusades in Latin America and the continent of Europe.  Its collaborator in the execution of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Divine Plan, the Canadian Bahá’í community is busily engaged in establishing the Faith beyond the Canadian mainland and further north in the vast territory of Greenland.  The Persian and Iraqi Bahá’í communities are, moreover, assiduously labouring in the adjacent territories of the Arabian Peninsula and the Kingdom of Afghanistan, while their sister-communities in the sub-continent of India are pushing the frontiers of the Faith as far as Ceylon in the South and Siam and Indonesia to the North and Southeast of that subcontinent.  More recently the members of the British Bahá’í community, having brought to a successful conclusion their first historic Plan, are devising the necessary measures for the launching of a teaching enterprise in the heart of Africa, supplementing the work already accomplished by the Egyptian Bahá’í community in that continent.  Shortly, and at its appointed time, yet another national community, already established in the heart of the European continent, will, as soon as the present obstacles are removed, and its internal activities are sufficiently consolidated, embark on a campaign, beyond the borders of its homeland, that will carry the light of the Faith to the adjoining Balkan territories, the Baltic states and, across the eastern frontiers of Europe, into Asia.

In this stupendous and laudable collective enterprise, world-wide in its range, divinely propelled, world-redemptive in its purpose, in which National Bahá’í communities, already sufficiently consolidated from within, are participating, each in accordance with the provisions of its own specific plan and constituting, in its proportions and potentialities, the mightiest spiritual crusade launched since the inception of the Formative Age of the Faith,—in such an enterprise the Bahá’í communities of Australia and New Zealand can neither afford to remain inactive or play a negligible part.  The situation they occupy, the unnumbered virgin territories lying in their neighbourhood, the vitality and adventurous spirit the members of these communities have so strikingly manifested—all demand that they arise, as soon as the process of internal consolidation is sufficiently advanced, to play their part in this world-

encompassing crusade now unfolding itself in, and constituting the brightest feature of, the opening years of the second Bahá’í century.

With this glorious vision before them, assured that a full measure of Divine guidance and sustenance will be vouchsafed to them when they embark on the second stage of their collective activities, let them concentrate, in the years immediately ahead, on the tasks that require their earnest and undivided attention.  The prosecution of the Plan, in all its aspects, is their primary obligation.  Whatever contributes to the broadening and reinforcement of the Administrative Base, designed to guide, coordinate and extend the ramifications of their future enterprises overseas, should be unhesitatingly welcomed and carried out at the present hour and during the opening phase of their collective unified endeavour in the service of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.

May they seize every opportunity that presents itself, surmount every obstacle that may confront them in the future, and pave the way for a befitting inauguration of the subsequent phase of their historic and rapidly unfolding mission.

Shoghi

30 July 1950 [Australia and New Zealand]

APPROVE PERDUS DEPARTURE SHOGHI

11 September 1950 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Under separate cover the Guardian is mailing to you two enlargements of the finished Arcade of the Báb’s Shrine.  These are a gift from him to the NSA and believers, and he would like you to have them circulated as widely as possible, for the friends to see them, and hang them in the National Headquarters.

Please cable receipt of these photos, so he will know they reached you safely.

Also please inform the friends in the News Letter that copies of one of these views may be purchased through the American NSA, to whom he has sent the original film.

With loving greetings,

R. Rabbani

2 November 1950 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Under separate cover the beloved Guardian has mailed you a gift from him of 2 enlargements of the finished arcade of the Báb’s Shrine.

He wishes them to be shown as widely as possible to the believers, and then be hung in the National Ḥaẓíra.

Please acknowledge receipt of these by cable as soon as they reach you.

The American NSA has negatives of the Shrine from which copies can be ordered if the friends desire to purchase any.

As I fear a previous letter dealing with this subject may have been lost, I am sending this one, to be sure, as a letter to Mr Holley was lost in the same mail.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

14 November 1950 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

I am replying to your letter of September 21 apart from other NSA correspondence, as the beloved Guardian wishes to assure the Assembly that the contribution for the Shrine of the Báb has been received.  (A receipt is herewith enclosed.)

He was very touched by the exemplary sense of duty and devotion to the interests of the Faith which this sum represents.  Please, on his behalf, thank all the donors to the Yerrinbool Dormitory Fund for their prompt response to his appeal regarding the Holy Shrine.

Already the contract for the stone-work of the Octagon has been placed in Italy, and he hopes soon the preliminary arrangements locally can be made for continuing the work.

With loving Bahá’í greetings to all the Assembly members from the Guardian,

Yours in His service,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deepfelt and abiding appreciation of the contribution of the Australian and New Zealand believers for so great and historic an enterprise, and of my loving and ardent prayers for their spiritual advancement and the steady expansion and consolidation of the great and historic work in which they are so devotedly engaged.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

21 January 1951

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand

The beloved Guardian has instructed me to acknowledge on his behalf the November issue of your “Bahá’í News”.  He is well pleased with it and commends you.  He would like to call your attention to the statement on page 3, paragraph 3, under “Anniversaries and Festivals”, and clarify it.

The Day of the Covenant November 26th, and the Day of the Ascension, November 28th, anniversaries of the birth and the Ascension of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá must be observed by the friends coming together, but work is not prohibited.  In other words the friends must regard observance of these two anniversaries as obligatory—but suspension of work not to be regarded as obligatory.

He assures you of his deep interest in all your efforts and offers prayers on your behalf at the Holy Shrines.

With warmest love,

Sincerely yours,

Amelia Collins

24 January 1951 [Australia and New Zealand]

SHARE JOY FRIENDS SHOGHI

1 March 1951 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letters addressed to our beloved Guardian, and dated June 22, August 4 and 22, November 10 and December 5 and 11, of 1950 and January 30 and February 20, 22, 26, of 1951, together with their enclosures, have been received; and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

In regard to the various matters raised in your letters:

… It might interest your Assembly to know that since leaving Fiji, Mr Perdu went to the United States, and himself admitted in a letter to the Guardian that he had seen Ahmad Sohrab.

The Guardian assures your Assembly, and, through you, all the believers throughout Australasia, that he has been deeply touched by the spirit of loyalty which you have all shown at this difficult time for him, and also the devotion to every work which is undertaken here at the International Centre of the Faith.

The support you have given to the construction of the Shrine of the Báb has been deeply appreciated; and he hopes that in the not distant future it will be possible for the doors of pilgrimage to be opened once more; and then the believers can see with their own eyes what their sacrificial contributions have helped to erect, on Mount Carmel.  It will interest the friends to hear that we are at present busy with the preliminary work required prior to the erection of the second story of the Holy Tomb, in other words, the octagonal portion, which will be built on atop of the roof of the original Shrine building erected by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Himself.  The stones have been ordered from Italy for this next stage in our undertaking, and soon will be coming to Haifa another 300 tons of granite, some of it with beautiful carved ornamentation.

The Guardian would like you to please convey to the Adelaide Spiritual Assembly his deep appreciation of the contribution they made through your

Body to the Shrine Fund here in Haifa, a contribution which represents the sum of their Property Fund.  They showed in this matter an exemplary spirit, and placed the major issue in its true perspective, forgetting their local hopes and aspirations in order that the work on the glorious Shrine of the Báb might be carried forward more speedily.

In regard to your question concerning the Centenary of the birth of Bahá’u’lláh’s mission:  The Guardian, at a later date, will give instructions concerning this commemoration to the entire Bahá’í world.

He has been particularly pleased to note, during the past year, the increase in pioneer activity going on under your jurisdiction.  As you know, he attaches the greatest importance to this type of Bahá’í service; and he hopes that more of the believers will arise and go forth into the field, establishing new centers and groups, and broadcasting the Message of Bahá’u’lláh over the face of that vast continent.

This is at once their greatest duty and privilege, and one which will attract the blessings of Bahá’u’lláh, and enrich, not only each individual who arises to serve, but the entire Community of which he forms a part.

Whenever the friends feel that they are small in number, and the effort required, truly colossal, they should remember what the British Bahá’ís accomplished during the Six Year Plan; and how, after the long and exhaustive years of the war and all its restrictions, they succeeded, at the point of utter exhaustion, one might say, in achieving every single goal gloriously.  The Australian and New Zealand friends, who have not been subjected to such rigours during the last decade, who are a young and fresh nation, so to speak, can surely accomplish as much, and one would imagine more, than their British brethren, who laboured under such great handicaps.  He assures you all that he will remember you in his prayers at the Holy Threshold, and supplicate that your Assembly, and the Community of believers whom you represent, may achieve great things during the coming Bahá’í year and arise to new heights of self-sacrifice and service.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  I would like to add that the Guardian does not consider that it is advisable for New Zealand to be separated in the near future from Australia, and come under the jurisdiction of an independent National Assembly.  He considers that the present arrangement is the best one until such time as there are more Assemblies flourishing in New Zealand, and he would consider the basis for a National Assembly strong enough there to support such an institution ….

Dear and valued co-workers:

The manifold and ever multiplying activities in which the Australian, New Zealand and Tasmanian Bahá’í communities are so devotedly and unitedly

engaged are the object of my constant solicitude, and evoke, as they steadily expand, feelings of gratitude and admiration in my heart.  Though unavoidably prevented from communicating more frequently with their elected national representatives, who are directing with exemplary loyalty, unrelaxing vigilance, inflexible resolve, unsparing devotion and commendable foresight, the course of these highly meritorious and promising activities, I follow, through the perusal of the various reports and newsletters I receive from them, every development in the unfoldment of their work, and surround them as they labour so assiduously for their Cause, with my fervent prayers, offered on their behalf in the Holy Shrines.

The assistance they have so spontaneously and enthusiastically extended to the newly established centre in the Fiji Islands, constituting the opening phase of the crusade destined to be systematically launched by them in the Pacific Islands—a territory with which their spiritual destiny is irrevocably linked—has been particularly gratifying and merits unstinted praise.  To have undertaken this additional task, with such determination and fervour, while immersed in the labours associated with the prosecution of their Plan, is surely an evidence of their youthful vitality, their unbounded devotion to the interests of the Faith, and their eager desire to emulate the example of the sister-communities which have initiated, over and above their prescribed tasks, enterprises beyond the confines of their respective homelands.

While this historic undertaking is being carried forward by their elected national representatives, these communities must concentrate their attention on the pressing and inescapable requirements of the Plan to which they stand committed.  The process of extending the range of their administrative activities through the formation of groups and the multiplication of Assemblies must continue unabated until this particular objective of the Plan is fully achieved.  The proper incorporation of the national and Local Assemblies, so vital and urgent at the present stage of their evolution, must be hastened by every means in their power.  The measures required to ensure the recognition of the Faith, of its laws regarding matters of personal status, as well as its Holy Days, by the civil authorities, in both Australia and New Zealand, must be carefully considered, and promptly adopted.  The institutions of summer and winter schools, so vital and beneficial at the present stage in the development of the Faith must be continually expanded enriched and consolidated.  The national and local Funds, on which the prosperity and unfoldment of a rising Administrative system must ultimately depend, should be assured of an ever-increasing measure of support, whilst the contributions of the believers for the raising of the superstructure of the Báb’s Holy Sepulchre, constituting a sacred and added responsibility at this present critical hour, should be constantly borne in mind and steadily maintained.  The deepening and enrichment of the spiritual life of the individual believer, his increasing comprehension of the essential

verities underlying this Faith, his training in its administrative processes, his understanding of the fundamentals of the Covenants established by its Author and the authorised Interpreter of its teachings should be made the supreme objectives of the national representatives responsible for the edification, the progress and consolidation of these communities.

This two fold task, both at home and abroad, confronting the members of these communities, labouring so valiantly, and holding aloft so courageously the banner of the Most Great Name in the Antipodes, at so crucial a stage in the evolution of the human race on this planet, can neither be shirked nor be treated lightly for one moment.  The hour is too critical, time is too short, the requirements of an infant Faith are too pressing, the resources at the disposal of the few into whose hands its care has been entrusted are too circumscribed to suffer any time to be lost in procrastination or through complacency or neglect.  The prizes destined for the heroic warriors, battling for the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh throughout the Southern Hemisphere, and particularly Australasia, are glorious beyond compare.  The assistance to be vouchsafed to them from on high in their struggle for its establishment to recognition and triumph is ready to be poured forth in astonishing abundance.  Action immediate and wholehearted, coupled with unswerving fidelity and dogged perseverance, will no doubt enable those who participate in this double crusade, to attract the full measure of these blessings and to attain these glorious goals.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

8 March 1951 [Australia and New Zealand]

Beloved Friends,

In answer to your letter of February 22nd, the beloved Guardian has instructed me to assure you that the statement made in my letter to you January 21st was quite correct.

You quote from page 537 “Bahá’í World” words written by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,—further down on the same page you will find the following “As a corollary of this Tablet (above) it follows the anniversaries of the birth and the ascension of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá are not to be regarded as days on which work is prohibited.  The celebration of these two days is however obligatory”.—These are the words of the Guardian.  We really have eleven Holy Days but as stated, work is only prohibited on the first nine mentioned in the Tablet.

He follows your work with deep interest and assures you of his loving prayers.

With warmest love,

Faithfully Yours,

Amelia Collins

7 September 1951 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of July 19 has been received, as well as the contribution of the believers to the Shrine, and the beloved Guardian sends you herewith his receipt.

He wishes to thank all the friends, communities, and Assemblies who have contributed so lovingly to this Holy undertaking.  Surely such gifts, representing both sincere love and often real sacrifice, will add to the preciousness of a Shrine already so dear to all Bahá’í hearts.

He wishes you every success in your own devoted services to the Cause.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success in the service of our beloved Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

29 September 1951 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of August 12 has been received, and I am enclosing a receipt from the beloved Guardian for the sum you forwarded.

He was deeply touched by this further evidence of the interest shown by the believers in Australia and New Zealand in the Holy task now going ahead at the World Centre.  Please thank all the contributors on his behalf.  He sends you and all the members of the NSA his loving greetings,

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless and reward all those who have so devotedly and spontaneously contributed for the promotion of so holy an enterprise, and aid them to win great and memorable victories in the service of His glorious Faith.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

20 November 1951 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letters to the beloved Guardian, dated April 3rd (two) 4th and 26th; May 4th and 25th; July 13th; and October 16, with various enclosures, have been received, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

Regarding various matters raised in your letters:

The Guardian feels that as Mr Audenwood clearly signified his belief in Bahá’u’lláh before his passing, his name should by all means be registered in your records as a believer.  Please assure his wife of the Guardian’s prayers for the progress and happiness of his soul, and for her own services to the Faith to be richly blessed.

Shoghi Effendi feels it is better not to put the Greatest Name on Bahá’í graves.  It is not forbidden to do so, but inappropriate.

Regarding Mr … and Mr … we all regret exceedingly the loss he afflicted this believer with.  Your Assembly, if you have not already done so, should write both the Persian and Indian Assemblies exposing him, and asking if there is no way he can be reached and made to pay his debt.  The last news the Guardian had of him he was in Cyprus and planned to go on to Iran or India.  It is most extraordinary to see the way this man, who breaks all the laws of his Faith and disobeys both the Guardian and the Assemblies, has been able to plant a firm faith in the hearts of sincere souls in Fiji, who are now devoted believers!  Your Assembly should give this small community every aid and encouragement you can, for its members were born with a terrific test, enough to shake the belief of old and tried Bahá’ís.

The Guardian was very pleased to see the Racing Conference courteously changed the name of that horse which had been called Bahá’u’lláh.

He is also very glad you are in touch with dear, faithful Mr Auskauli.  You should keep up this contact and when you write please assure him of the Guardian’s appreciation of his steadfastness and of his loving prayers.  He advises you to keep for your library the books sent you.

The Guardian has noted a new spirit of love and unity amongst the Australian and New Zealand Bahá’ís, which pleases him very much, as the atmosphere of harmony amongst the friends will attract the Divine Blessings and enable them to achieve a great deal more for the Faith.

He strongly feels that the time has come for the believers of Australia and New Zealand to arise as a conquering army and ensure the attainment of their goals under their Six Year Plan.  They now constitute one of the strongest bodies of believers in the world, ranking with such active and well established communities as those of Canada, Great Britain and India.  Their period of adolescence in the Faith has passed; they are now adults, and they must face the problems involved in fulfilling their Plan squarely and with maturity.  The pleasant period of youthful irresponsibility, when they could look on the work of the American and Persian Communities as the feats of the strong, which they were not called upon to emulate, being too young, is now passed forever.  They must sacrifice, concentrate on their tasks, plan their actions and carry on their pioneer work with determination, realizing they will have no one to

blame for any failures, except themselves!  The Guardian feels they are entirely capable of fulfilling their Plan.  He is proud of the progress they have made and confident they can succeed if they really try.

He assures you all of his loving prayers for your guidance and for the success of your work, the progress of which he follows with the keenest interest.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  I am enclosing a receipt herein.  I do not think this sum has been previously acknowledged, but if there is any duplication, please destroy it.

Dear and valued co-workers:

The Six-Year Plan, formulated by the elected representatives of the valiant Bahá’í communities in Australasia, is now entering its final and most critical stage.  If successfully terminated it will mark the conclusion of a memorable chapter in the evolution of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh in the Antipodes, and will at the same time herald the opening of the initial phase in the establishment of the institutions of that Faith, beyond the borders of that far-off continent, in the numerous diversified and widely scattered Islands of the South Pacific Ocean.  It will in fact signalize the third stage in the evolution of the Faith in that newly opened, highly promising, far-flung continent—an evolution which commenced, during the concluding decade of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s ministry and of the Heroic Age of the Faith, with the birth and rise of the Bahá’í Administrative Order, and which was subsequently accelerated through the formulation during the opening years of the Formative Age of the Bahá’í Dispensation, of two successive Plans, designed to broaden and reinforce the foundations of that nascent Order in Australia, New Zealand and Tasmania.  The inauguration of the third and most glorious phase in this historic and momentous development must now depend on the consummation of the tasks willingly shouldered by this youthful, this virile and greatly beloved community, which, despite its physical remoteness from the heart and world centre of the Faith, the smallness of its size, its limited resources and the vastness of the field under the jurisdiction of its elected representatives, has made such great strides since its inception, has shown such exemplary devotion and loyalty, and has preserved and reinforced so nobly the solidity of its foundations.

This Community, which owes its birth to the revelation of the Tablets of the Divine Plan, must now brace itself, during the fleeting months that lie ahead, for a supreme, a concerted and sustained effort to ensure the attainment of the objectives of the present Plan, and thereby acquire the spiritual potentialities essential to the launching of a mighty Crusade, in collaboration with the Trustees of the Plan, conceived by the Center of Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant, and with its neighbouring sister communities in Latin America and in the Indian

sub-continent, destined to culminate in the fullness of time in the Spiritual conquest of the multitudinous islands of the South Pacific Ocean.

So exalted a mission, so strenuous a task, so weighty a responsibility call for, while the Present Preparatory Plan speeds to its end, an unprecedented demonstration on the part of young and old, of both men and women, whether administrators or teachers, veterans or neophytes, of solidarity, determination, zeal and constancy, a still greater display of self-sacrifice, a wider dispersion of forces, a more energetic discharge of duty, a clearer vision, a firmer grasp, of the requirements of the present hour, and a more complete dedication to the purposes of the present-day enterprise.

The steady multiplication of Bahá’í Administrative institutions; the rapid consolidation of these basic agencies on which the speedy expansion of the community beyond its borders must ultimately depend; the early incorporation of all steadily functioning Assemblies as a means of further reinforcing a newly erected administrative structure; the systematic and vigorous dissemination of Bahá’í literature, and the gradual proclamation of the Faith through the Press and Radio; the initiation of measures designed to forge friendly links between these newly-fledged Assemblies and local civil authorities, and a parallel effort aimed at the strengthening of the ties binding the Bahá’í Supreme Administrative Body with both the Federal and State authorities—above all the constant deepening of the spiritual life of the individual believers, the enrichment of community life, the promotion of greater unity, harmony and cooperation among the rank and file of the followers of the Faith—these are the essential prerequisites to which special attention should be directed in preparation for the great campaign destined to be launched in that remote corner of the globe, by one of the most youthful and promising Bahá’í national communities, on the morrow of the world-wide celebrations of the centenary of the birth of Bahá’u’lláh’s Prophetic Mission.

Afire with the vision that now opens before their eyes; conscious of the substantial share of responsibility they must assume, in conjunction with the Indian, the Pakistani, the North American, and the Latin American followers of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh, in uplifting the banner of the Most Great Name amidst the dwellers of these scattered, distant and in some cases isolated, Islands of the South, and in drawing them into the orbit of His constantly evolving Administrative Order; fortified by the magnificent progress they themselves have achieved in their own homelands; and confident of the irresistible and mysterious power instilled by the Hand of Providence in every agency associated with His Most Holy Name, let the members of these rapidly maturing, fast evolving, soundly established, Bahá’í communities throughout Australasia arise, as they have never heretofore done, and during the concluding phase of their present fate-laden Plan, to seal their high endeavours with total

and complete victory, and thereby open a chapter of undreamt-of glory that will add an imperishable lustre to the annals of an immortal Faith.

Just as their first collective enterprise, through its resounding success, contributed its particular share of tribute to the memory of the Herald of their Faith, on the occasion of the centenary of the birth of His Revelation, may their present collective enterprise, through its consummation, qualify and empower them to play a distinctive role in the celebration of the Great Jubilee that will mark the hundredth anniversary of the birth of Bahá’u’lláh’s Prophetic Mission.  A great opportunity lies before them.  Much of the present mighty task still remains to be achieved.  Immense virgin fields stretch before them, flanked, on the one side, by a sister community in the South American continent, and on the other by another sister community in the vast Indian sub-continent, both ready and eager to extend their help in prosecuting a memorable, a gigantic and supremely arduous task.  May they, when the hour strikes, be found ready and well equipped to assume the onerous responsibilities that will fall to their share.

Shoghi

2 December 1951 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of October 17th has been received by the beloved Guardian, as well as the contribution you forwarded, a receipt for which I am enclosing.

Will you kindly assure the individuals, groups and Assemblies who contributed, of the Guardian’s very deep appreciation of this assistance they are giving to the work of the Shrine here.

The building is going ahead rapidly; and he hopes that, within a couple of months, the octagon will be finished, and the drum section which will support the dome, can be commenced without any interruption.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved abundantly reward and bless all who have contributed for the construction of the Shrine, sustain them in their efforts, and aid them to win great victories in the service of our beloved Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

6 January 1952 [Australia and New Zealand]

DEEPEST APPRECIATION SENTIMENTS SHOGHI

24 February 1952 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of January 29th has been received; and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to forward to you the enclosed receipt for the loving contribution made by the Australia and New Zealand believers for the Shrine of the Báb, as well as for the contribution made directly by your National Body.  Please thank all the friends concerned in this contribution on his behalf; and assure them the Shrine is growing more beautiful daily as work on it progresses.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty abundantly reward, bless and sustain all those who have contributed towards this holy Enterprise, aid and protect them, and enable them to promote, at all times, the vital interests of His Faith.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

1 March 1952 [Australia and New Zealand]

SIGNATURE INADVERTENTLY OMITTED SHOGHI

24 March 1952 [Australia and New Zealand]

APPROVE MOTHER DUNN AND COMPANION HAZIRA SHOGHI

12 April 1952 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your loving letter of March 11th, addressed to the beloved Guardian has come to hand, and he has asked me to answer it in his behalf.

The kind contribution which you made to the Shrine of the Báb fund has been received, and receipt therefore is enclosed herewith.

After checking with our bank here, I find they feel it would be simpler if you made future remittances on the basis of a bank transfer instead of a draft.

Answering the specific questions which you propound, the information is as follows:

1.	The full name and address of the bank is:  Bank Leumi le Israel, Haifa, Israel.

2.	The exact name of our account is:  Shoghi Rabbani.

The beloved Guardian values very deeply the admirable manner in which the friends in Australia and New Zealand are carrying on their teaching work.  He will pray that they will meet with every possible success, and gain new victories for the faith as their plan progresses.

The Guardian likewise wishes you to express to each one who joined in the contribution you sent, his loving appreciation.

The work on the Shrine is progressing.  The octagon and the pinnacles are now completed, so far as the marble work is concerned.  The Guardian is hopeful the entire project may continue uninterruptedly so that it might be completed by Naw-Rúz period next year.

With warm Bahá’í greetings, I am,

Leroy Ioas, Assistant Secretary

26 April 1952 [Australia and New Zealand]

HYDE DUNN REGARDED HAND

30 April 1952 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your gracious letter of April 3rd has come to hand, and the Guardian has asked me to acknowledge it on his behalf.  Enclosed is receipt for the contribution which has been made to the Shrine of the Báb.

The unity of the friends in Australia and New Zealand is greatly valued by the Guardian; and he appreciates the sacrifices which have been made in sending these contributions to this Holy Undertaking on Mt. Carmel.

The Shrine is increasing in beauty from day to day.  The marble work on the octagon has been completed; the exquisite pinnacles have been put in place; and work is under way on the extension of some of the Gardens.  The Guardian is hopeful the work may continue uninterruptedly, so as to be completed next year.

With loving Bahá’í greetings, I am,

Leroy Ioas, Assistant Secretary

3 June 1952 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The beloved Guardian has received your letters of December 20 and 21, 1951, February 12 and 26, March 11 and May 2, 1952, with enclosures, and has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

As regards various matters raised in your letters …

The Guardian suggests you contact …, and press him to discharge his debt to the believer in … whom he has so grievously wronged, pointing out to him that surely, if he expects any forgiveness from God, the first pre-requisite is to conduct himself honestly.

The Guardian was very happy to hear that as a result of Mrs Bolton’s trip to New Caledonia, there is now a believer in that far-off island.  He was also very happy to hear of the close contact you maintain with the friends in

Suva, and considers that this is extremely important, as of course at the New Delhi conference, plans will have to be made for the unfoldment of the Faith throughout all the Pacific Islands, and the more strong centers we have to begin with, the better.

As regards World Religion Day, the Guardian does not attach any importance to what date the meeting is held on.  World Religion Day has nothing to do with our Faith as such, but is merely a useful means of getting the public together and bringing the Cause to them.

He sees no reason why Mother Dunn should not have a companion in the Ḥaẓíra, and hopes that she will settle down there comfortably and happily.

The sympathy you have expressed on the occasion of the passing of dear Mr Maxwell was much appreciated by the Guardian.  Although Mr Maxwell is naturally missed very much here, the services God in His bounty enabled him to accomplish for the Faith preclude any feelings of sadness, when we think of the blessings showered upon him.

He urges your Assembly to constantly stimulate the believers to achieve their goals.  It would be a great pity if, after the success of their First Plan, their Second historic Plan did not likewise culminate in victory, more particularly in view of the fact that the New Delhi conference will involve the formation of work to be undertaken by eight National Bodies during a ten year period.

Consequently all Assemblies, not only yours, but all National Assemblies all over the world, should, so to speak, clear the decks for action, and wind up their present business, so that they will be free to carry out the much more important work that lies ahead of them.

The Guardian feels sure that the Australian and New Zealand Bahá’ís can make and will make sufficient effort to consummate their Plan with success.  He is certainly sustaining them with his ardent prayers.

He assures you all that your labours are most deeply appreciated.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers:

Though extremely preoccupied, during recent months, with the constantly expanding activities and manifold problems arising at the World Centre of the Faith, necessitating, to my extreme regret, a considerable delay in acknowledging your Assembly’s communications, I have been watching, with close interest and ever deepening admiration, the progressive unfoldment of the task which the community of the believers in Australia, New Zealand and Tasmania are so valiantly shouldering.  I have noted, with particular gratification, the simultaneous advance made in the extension of the teaching activities of the steadfast and self-sacrificing members of this forward-looking highly promising community, as well as in the consolidation of the institutions

which they are so laboriously establishing throughout that far-away continent and its neighbouring Islands.  I rejoice at the remarkable vitality, courage and determination which they are increasingly demonstrating in enlarging the limits of the Faith and in implanting its banner beyond the confines of that continent, over and above the task assigned to them in accordance with the provisions of their Plan, and in territories where they are destined to exert a notable influence through their collective efforts and achievements in the years immediately ahead.

As the Plan, to which they stand committed, enters upon the last stage in its unfoldment the members of this community, however remarkable their accomplishments have been in the past, must steel themselves and through a supreme effort, endeavour to rise to still greater heights of dedication, display in the pioneering field a still more compelling degree of consecration, evince a still nobler spirit of self-abnegation, and a greater awareness of the gravity of the issues at stake and of the inestimable value of the prizes within their reach.  That they may be qualified to undertake a still greater mission, assume weightier responsibilities and embark upon mightier enterprises, the adequate discharge of their present duties and the fulfilment of their sacred obligations is no doubt essential.

The multiplication and consolidation of the Administrative Institutions of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh throughout Australia, New Zealand and Tasmania, as its followers in those regions, must undoubtedly be well aware, constitutes the primary foundation for, and the necessary prelude to, the firm establishment of the institutions of His Administrative Order, beyond the confines and in the neighbourhood of these territories, and amidst the highly diversified tribes and races inhabiting the numerous and widely scattered islands and archipelagos of the South Pacific Ocean.

The approaching Holy Year, a period of such unique significance in the history of the Faith; the prospect of the active participation of some of the elected representatives and members of the community holding aloft the torch of the Faith in the Antipodes; in one of the most important Conferences to be held during that year; their formal association with no less than seven other National Spiritual Assemblies in the prosecution of the colossal tasks that are to be initiated in South East Asia, in the course of the coming decade; the manifold blessings which must assuredly flow from the assumption of such a sacred function and in the course of the development of so gigantic, so challenging and so meritorious an undertaking, can surely not fail to galvanize the privileged members of this community, constituting a vital outpost of the Faith, and occupying such a spiritually strategic position in the world crusade soon to be launched by itself and its sister communities in both the East and the West, into action, at once so swift and decisive, as to add fresh lustre to the annals of the Faith.

This community, now standing on the threshold of an era of unprecedented expansion, and gazing towards the glorious future that awaits it, must seize the priceless opportunities which these fast-fleeting months offer it, and must not allow for a moment its vision to be dimmed, its resolution to flag, its attention to be distracted or its faith in its ultimate destiny to waver.

With a heart full of hope, and with an affection and fervour which every forward step in the progress of its strenuous labours serves to intensify, I will supplicate at the threshold of the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh to enable His stalwart followers championing His Cause in those far-away lands to achieve a resounding success in the task they have pledged themselves to fulfil.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

15 June 1952 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian has directed me to write you in his behalf, to request that the information relating to Australia and New Zealand and their activities, contained in the booklet “The Bahá’í Faith”, ‘Information Statistical and Comparative’ be brought up to date as of May 1, 1952, and sent to him here by first possible air mail post.

One of the features of the Holy Year will be the re-issuance of this important book; inasmuch as the Holy Year is fast approaching, the Guardian wishes the information as quickly as possible.

Briefly, the information which your NSA is to provide, brought up to date of May 1, 1952, is as follows:

Incorporated Local Spiritual Assemblies, in Australia and New Zealand.  Bahá’í Centers in Australia and New Zealand, showing if possible the division between Local Spiritual Assemblies, Groups and Isolated Believers.

Any information not immediately available, should be handled by telegraph, but such information as is available should not be delayed for any one or two delinquents.  You can appreciate that if the booklet is to be published early in the Holy Year, the information should reach the Guardian at a very early date.

The Guardian sends his loving greetings to the National Assembly and its devoted members.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy C. Ioas, Assistant Secretary

25 October 1952 [Australia and New Zealand]

PRAYING SUCCESS CONFERENCE

4 November 1952 [Australia and New Zealand]

TOWNSHEND VISIT UNFEASIBLE SHOGHI

13 November 1952 [Australia and New Zealand]

APPROVE PLAN RIDVAN SHOGHI

29 November 1952 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of September 30th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The generous contribution which Mrs Chorvat made towards the Shrine of the Báb has already been acknowledged direct to her, because she mentioned it in a recent letter.

It was indeed most kind of this dedicated believer to support this work of the Shrine here to this extent, and was much appreciated.

The Guardian assures you your devoted labours for the Faith are much appreciated.  He will remember you in his prayers in the Shrine.

With loving greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

30 November 1952 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your loving letter of September 14th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has asked me to acknowledge it on his behalf.

The Guardian will greatly appreciate your thanking each one of the contributors to this fund.

He is very appreciative of the outstanding services and sacrifices of the friends in Australia and New Zealand.  He feels they are bringing renown to the Faith, and laying a firm foundation for the great Crusade ahead.

The Guardian will pray for the success of all the activities of the friends, and for the guidance and confirmation of the National Assembly.

The funds representing the proceeds of the sale of the shares, given by … have come to hand, amounting to ….  The Guardian has asked that you express his deep appreciation to … for this loving contribution, which will be used in the construction of the Shrine of the Báb.

The construction work on the drum of the Shrine is going forward quite rapidly.  The tall columns between the windows are rapidly nearing

completion, adding to the beauty of this glorious structure.  The Guardian is hopeful that this work can continue until the building is completely finished.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

Leroy C. Ioas, Assistant Secretary

16 February 1953 [Australia and New Zealand]

FERVENTLY PRAYING ACHIEVEMENT VICTORY APPEAL INDIVIDUALS ASSEMBLIES EXERT SUPREME EFFORT ELEVENTH HOUR HOWEVER GREAT SACRIFICE DISCHARGE NOBLY SACRED URGENT VITAL TASK SHOGHI

22 April 1953 [Australia and New Zealand]

OVERJOYED HEARTFELT CONGRATULATIONS GLORIOUS VICTORY SHOGHI

3 May 1953 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í Friend:

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of April 14th, and has instructed me to acknowledge it on his behalf.

The contribution which has been made by the friends in Australia and New Zealand for the construction work on the Shrine of the Báb, is very deeply appreciated.  Receipt is enclosed herewith.

Will you please extend to all the Assemblies, Groups and individual believers who have joined in this contribution, the Guardian’s heartfelt appreciation.

Shoghi Effendi was delighted to learn that the Six Year Teaching Plan was successfully concluded.  Word coming into Haifa from all over the world indicates the great success of the teaching plans in every country.  He is therefore encouraged to feel that the heavy tasks of the Ten Year Plan will be easily accomplished.

You will be happy to know that the work on the dome of the Shrine is progressing very rapidly.  As the Guardian has cabled, the shutterings and the scaffolding for the dome have been completed, and some of the golden tiles placed on lower sections of the dome.  The building achieves greater majesty as each new height is reached.

With loving greetings, I am,

Leroy Ioas, Assistant Secretary

7 May 1953 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í Friend:

The beloved Guardian has instructed me to write to you and ask you to please send me the name and address of the Bahá’í in Samoa, also the name and address of the Bahá’í in New Caledonia.  And, will you please advise if a Spiritual Assembly was formed in Suva on April 21st.  The news has come

indirectly and he very much wants to have it confirmed by the NSA.  You may be sure his eager eyes are on these new places and any news about them makes his heart very happy.  Please send the name and address of the secretary of Suva.

The news of the 2nd International Bahá’í Conference has been very thrilling and the beloved Guardian has been exceedingly happy about it all.

If you will please send the information asked for by return AIR MAIL, I will be very deeply grateful to you.

The work on the Shrine is going ahead very wonderfully, a few tiles have already been placed.  We hope someday you will all make the pilgrimage and see this most beautiful Shrine in the heart of Mt. Carmel, fulfilment of prophecy.

Devoted love and thanks,

Affectionately,

Jessie E. Revell

26 May 1953 [Australia and New Zealand]

LOVING APPRECIATION WILL ADVISE ACTION WHENEVER NECESSARY SHOGHI

11 June 1953 [Australia and New Zealand]

ADVISE DUNNING POSTPONE PILGRIMAGE

14 June 1953 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Our beloved Guardian has been greatly encouraged by reports reaching him from all parts of the Bahá’í world of the victories already gained, and the plans being laid for the prosecution of the Ten Year Crusade.

They have evoked his awe-inspiring, and soul-stirring cablegram of May 28th, calling for the immediate settlement of all the 131 virgin areas of the Plan.  He is convinced that the Friends will arise and translate their enthusiasm into Action, because the Keynote of the Crusade must be Action, Action, Action!

The beloved Guardian has directed me to write your Assembly to amplify some of the aspects of his dynamic message.

The settlement of these virgin areas is of such an emergency nature, that he feels pioneering in one of them, takes precedence over every other type of Bahá’í service—whether it be in the teaching or administrative fields of the Faith.

In the United States some 150 people have volunteered for pioneer service, and some of them already are preparing to leave for their posts.  The Guardian has informed the United States National Assembly, that because of their being the Chief Executor of the Divine Plan of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá for teaching throughout the World, their pioneers may be sent to any virgin area in the world, regardless to which NSA it may be assigned.  If any of their pioneers wish to settle in any of the areas assigned to your Assembly, they will communicate with you.

The Friends in Australia and New Zealand have displayed such outstanding devotion and consecration to the Faith, that despite all obstacles they have continuously “scattered” to various parts to spread the Divine Teachings.  The beloved Guardian is sure they will do likewise in connection with this great Crusade and will settle promptly many virgin areas.

There are some general observations which the Guardian shares with you, and then some specific suggestions which are enumerated below:

Every individual who offers to pioneer, should be encouraged and assisted in every way possible by the National Assembly.

Every application for pioneering must be expedited, and not allowed to drag in any way, either in the handling of the NSA, or any Committee working out the details for the NSA.

The National Assembly must make the settlement of their virgin areas, the first order of their business.  In other words, nothing is more important at this time, than settlement in the 131 virgin areas.

More than two pioneers should not be sent to any one place; unless, of course, they are members of one family.  In fact, what is wanted is to settle each area with Bahá’ís, and therefore, one Bahá’í will fulfil the initial task.

The specific suggestions which the Guardian makes, are:

Areas close at hand and easy of settlement should be filled first.  Then the areas more difficult, and finally, the difficult ones.

Whenever a pioneer enters a new territory, a cable should be sent at once to the beloved Guardian, giving the name, place and any pertinent information.

A report should be sent each month by your Assembly to the Secretary General of the International Bahá’í Council, giving the progress of your teaching work in the virgin areas of the Plan, particularly the development of your plans for settling them.  This does not mean your Assembly should correspond with the International Council concerning administrative matters; as all administrative matters should be handled in the usual manner, directly with the Guardian.  It simply means that reports and data concerning the development of the plan should be sent to the International Council for consolidation with other reports, for the Guardian.

The Guardian feels the following areas should be easily settled and he would appreciate your arranging to send pioneers there at the earliest possible

date.  Portuguese Timor, New Hebrides Islands, Admiralty Islands; and then the other Islands as you can place pioneers on them.

As his dramatic cable indicates, the Guardian is preparing an illuminated “Roll of Honour”, on which will be inscribed the names of the “Knights of Bahá’u’lláh” who first enter these 131 virgin areas.  This “Roll of Honour” will be placed inside the entrance door of the Inner Sanctuary of the Tomb of Bahá’u’lláh.

From time to time, the Guardian will announce to the Bahá’í world, the names of those Holy Souls who arise under the conditions outlined in his message, and settle these areas, and conquer them for God.

Now is the time for the Bahá’ís of the World to demonstrate the spiritual vitality of the Faith, and to arise as one soul to spread the Glory of the Lord over the face of the Earth.  The Guardian is sure the spiritual power released with the launching of this Great Ten Year Global Crusade, will carry the consecrated and devoted friends to complete victory.

He will pray for the members of your Assembly, whose sacrificial services he greatly values.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas, Assistant Secretary

23 June 1953 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letters of June 18, July 29, October 7, 21 and 24 (2), November 10 and 18, 1952, and February 19, May 18 and 21, 1953 have been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.  The various enclosures as well as material forwarded under separate cover were also received.

Owing to extreme pressure of work here, which is getting worse all the time, he has not been able to answer any NSA letters from any country for almost a year.  He regrets this but unfortunately it was unavoidable.  As you can see, all your communications reached him, but he was too busy to reply.

He appreciated your Assembly’s gift of books gotten out by the Child Education Committee, and assures you that the four copies of the bulletin “Herald of the South”, “Bahá’í Youth Journal” and other material which you sent, are quite satisfactory.

The thing that is most difficult for the Guardian is to have to read through a sheaf of material in order to extract the salient information on such vital subjects as pioneer activities, important decisions of the National Assembly or the Teaching Committee etc.  Two words in the text of your letter might convey important items in a succinct and summarized manner.  He was delighted to hear that as many as thirty of the Australian believers are planning to attend the New Delhi Conference, and that a large number of NSA members, if not

all, will be present.  In a way, the New Delhi Conference is one of the most important of all four conferences to be held during the Holy Year, because at it, eight National Assemblies must be represented and their joint teaching endeavour covers vast areas of the globe, areas practically hitherto untouched by the Message of Bahá’u’lláh.  He was glad to hear that the Convention this year and the Pacific School held afterward had been such a success.

He was sorry to learn that after all, it was not possible for Mr and Mrs Katzmann to go to New Britain.  He hopes that they or others will follow through this project, as it is an extremely important one.

The best photographs available of the Shrine of the Báb at present are to be obtained from the American NSA, as films are placed at their disposal, and they can fulfil your requirements.  He suggests you get in touch with Mr Holley.

Shoghi Effendi hopes that at the New Delhi Conference the contribution which the representatives from Australia and New Zealand will make will be vital and will carry the work forward much faster.  It will be a truly unique opportunity for the representatives of so many National Assemblies to consult about the vast pioneers regions which will be entrusted to their care, and every advantage should be taken of it, as it may not recur again ever.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  The Guardian has been greatly encouraged by the way the believers of Australia and New Zealand succeeded in their Plan carried out the last few years.  He hopes for still greater things from them in the days to come!

Dear and valued co-workers:

The victorious conclusion of the Plan formulated by your Assembly, which posterity will recognize as a landmark of the utmost significance in the development of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh in the Antipodes, has filled my heart with joy and thanksgiving, has evoked profound admiration in the hearts of the followers of the Faith in both Hemispheres, and fully qualified the Bahá’í Communities in Australia, New Zealand and Tasmania to embark upon their Ten-Year Plan, which constitutes so important and vital a phase of the global Crusade launched by their sister Communities in every continent of the globe.

This new milestone in the history of the Faith in Australasia signalizes the opening of a new chapter in the progressive unfoldment of the Mission of these communities—a Mission that embraces both their homelands as well as the neighbouring Islands of the South Pacific Ocean and where their most brilliant exploits, testifying to their heroism and devotion, must be achieved and their greatest victories won.

A twofold task of far-reaching importance, at once thrilling and arduous, now faces them, involving the steady multiplication and consolidation of the

nascent institutions of the Faith in Australia, New Zealand and Tasmania and the erection of the Administrative structure of the Faith in the islands and archipelagos beyond the shores of the Australian continent.

The despatch of pioneers to the seven virgin islands assigned to the National Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand is the first and most vital objective of the newly launched Ten-Year Plan, requiring urgent consideration, careful planning, and energetic action, in the course of the current year.  Every effort should be exerted and the utmost sacrifice should be made, to ensure, ere the opening year of this great and historic Plan draws to a close, the settlement of at least one pioneer in each of these Islands—an achievement which will seal with success the opening phase of the collective enterprise auspiciously launched by your Assembly on the occasion of the centenary celebrations of the birth of Bahá’u’lláh’s Mission.

Second in importance and far-reaching in its repercussions is the selection and purchase by your Assembly—an undertaking to which Bahá’í National Assemblies, as well as myself, will contribute—of the site of the first Mashriqu’l-Adhkár in the Antipodes, to be situated either within or in the immediate outskirts of, the city of Sydney, the leading and oldest Bahá’í centre in the Australian continent, and which already houses the National Administrative Headquarters of your Assembly.

These two essential obligations, as well as the task of consolidating steadily the prizes already won in the administrative field in that continent, must take precedence over all other obligations assumed by the prosecutors of the Plan, and will, if fulfilled in time, constitute a splendid prelude to its systematic execution and eventual consummation.

The valiant and youthful Bahá’í communities established in Australia, New Zealand and Tasmania, which despite their limited resources, the smallness of their numbers, their relative inexperience, and the various obstacles which have confronted them in the past, have proved themselves capable of such memorable feats, in both the teaching and administrative spheres of Bahá’í activity, will, surely, refuse to hesitate or falter at this crucial and challenging hour in the unfoldment of their destiny, and will never allow themselves to be outdone by their sister-communities who share with them the high and inescapable responsibility of contributing to the final triumph of this, the most gigantic and momentous collective undertaking launched since the inception of the Formative Age of the Bahá’í Dispensation.

I appeal to their elected national representatives to direct, with all the means at their disposal, the operations of the Plan, and encourage constantly the members of the Communities they represent to lend, each according to his or her resources and capabilities, every possible assistance to this common task.  I entreat, moreover, all Local Assemblies, groups and isolated believers to support, unstintingly, every measure devised for the effective prosecution of this same

task, and to continue in this meritorious endeavour until every single objective of the Plan is attained.

May the followers of the Faith in that far-off continent, who can already boast of such a proud record of stewardship to the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh, illuminate its annals, in the course of the coming decades by deeds of still greater renown, by acts of still more glorious sacrifice, and prepare themselves to worthily contribute, at the appointed time, to the world-wide celebrations which will commemorate the Centenary of His Declaration.

Shoghi

24 June 1953 [Australia and New Zealand]

HEARTILY APPROVE

16 July 1953 [Australia and New Zealand]

PIONEERING PREFERABLE SHOGHI

25 July 1953 [Australia and New Zealand]

INFORM DAWE BOLTON JR WELCOME PILGRIMAGE BEGINNING NOVEMBER SHOGHI

7 August 1953 [Australia and New Zealand]

HEARTILY APPROVE LOVE SHOGHI

25 September 1953 [Australia and New Zealand]

LOVING APPRECIATION.  WILL ADVISE ACTION WHENEVER NECESSARY.  SHOGHI

20 October 1953 [Australia and New Zealand]

ASSURE DOBBINS LOVING APPRECIATION SHOGHI

1 November 1953 [Australia and New Zealand]

ASSURE LAMPRILL PARKE LOVING APPRECIATION SHOGHI

27 December 1953 [Australia and New Zealand]

HEARTFELT CONGRATULATIONS RECORD BREAKING ACHIEVEMENT LOVING PRAYERS SHOGHI

29 December 1953 [Australia and New Zealand]

DELIGHTED PROGRESS ADVISE THIRTYEIGHT DELEGATES SHOGHI

30 December 1953 [Australia and New Zealand]

NUMBER DELEGATES SHOULD BE THIRTY EIGHT

17 January 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

ASSURE WYSS LOVING PRAYERS SHOGHI

21 January 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

ASSURE DIVE LOVING APPRECIATION

25 January 1954

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian has directed me to write you in connection with the purchase of land for the future Bahá’í Temple in Sydney.

He understands you are handling this matter very vigorously.  However, he wanted me to let you know that he attaches great importance to this project, and is hopeful it can be consummated in the near future.

The Guardian asks that you send a report to me for him, which will give the present status of the matter.  In this report, will you also state whether you feel there is any likelihood of the land being purchased before the end of March?  If this were possible, it would of course be a great victory for the Faith, as it would achieve one of the goals of the Ten-Year Crusade during the first year of the plan.

The Guardian sends you his loving greetings, and assures you of his prayers in your behalf.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas, Secretary-General

11 February 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

ASSURE DAWE LOVING FERVENT PRAYERS SHOGHI

21 March 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

HEARTFELT CONGRATULATIONS GREAT VICTORY PROUD HISTORIC ACHIEVEMENT SHOGHI

27 March 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

URGE UTMOST EFFORT ENSURE ENTRY PIONEER COCOS ADMIRALTY LOYALTY BEFORE RIDVAN FOR GREAT VICTORY SHOGHI

28 March 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

GUARDIAN CABLES URGENCY SETTLEMENT TIMOR BY RIDVAN.  PRAYING YOUR SUCCESS EXPEDITE PROJECT.  PLEASE CABLE PROSPECTS HORACE HOLLEY SECY

28 March 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

PLEASE CABLE QUICKLY POSSIBLE RACES TRIBES REPRESENTED ALL AREAS YOUR JURISDICTION INCLUDING VIRGIN PLACES ALSO LANGUAGES PRINTED PAMPHLETS PROCESS PRINTING AND TRANSLATED REGARDS IOAS

April 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

DESIRE RACES TRIBES WITHIN FAITH AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND REGARDS IOAS

7 April 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

APPROVE USE SURPLUS TEMPLE FUND PACIFIC TEACHING SHOGHI

14 April 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

URGE DISPATCH LISBON PIONEER TIMOR DEEPEST LOVE SHOGHI

17 April 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

At the instruction of the Guardian, I am forwarding you herewith his Convention Message.

He wishes you to have it read aloud to the assembled delegates, and then published and circulated among the believers.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

23 April 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

ARRANGING SUM SENT LISBON ASSEMBLY FOR MARQUES AS MY CONTRIBUTION SHOGHI

26 April 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

CABLE IMMEDIATELY NAMES NEW ASSEMBLIES AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND

29 April 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

DEEPLY APPRECIATE CONVENTION MESSAGE.  APPEAL ASSEMBLED DELEGATES DELIBERATE URGE LOCAL COMMUNITIES ARISE COURSE LAST YEAR 2ND PHASE 10 YEAR PLAN REDOUBLE EFFORTS ATTAINMENT GOALS PARTICULARLY MULTIPLICATION CENTRES ASSEMBLIES EXPEDITE LOCAL INCORPORATION TRANSLATION LITERATURE INTENSIFICATION TEACHING CONSOLIDATION NEWLY OPENED TERRITORIES.  FERVENTLY SUPPLICATING UNPRECEDENTED BLESSINGS MUCH LOVED GREATLY ADMIRED VALIANT COMMUNITIES ANTIPODES SHOGHI

2 May 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

DEEPLY APPRECIATE ASSURANCE DELEGATES SUPPLICATING STILL GREATER VICTORIES SHOGHI

4 May 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

BE NOT DISCOURAGED PERSEVERE ACHIEVEMENTS COMMUNITY ANTIPODES HIGHLY PRAISEWORTHY DEEPEST LOVE SHOGHI

8 June 1954

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved has been greatly pleased with the achievements of the friends throughout the world during the first year of the Ten-Year Crusade.  Victories were won in all parts of the world, and on many fronts.  The Faith was established in 101 countries of the world, bringing the light of guidance to 229 countries and islands.

We now enter the second phase of the Ten-Year Crusade.  The Guardian’s message to the Convention in America has outlined the goals to be achieved during this second phase.

One of the most important items was the purchase of Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds for future National Spiritual Assemblies.  The Guardian feels that immediate steps should be taken to fulfil a part of this project.  In all, there are 49 Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds to be purchased—4 already are owned.  The Guardian feels

that during the second year of the Crusade, 17 additional Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds should be purchased.  These should not be elaborate structures, but modest houses which can serve as local Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds at the present time, but which can be converted into National Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds as soon as the National Assemblies are formed.

The beloved Guardian feels that steps should be taken immediately to purchase the Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds in Auckland.  He is arranging for the transmission of his initial gift of …, to this important project.  It will reach your Assembly through the Guardian’s representative Mr Valiyu’llah Varqa.  You will of course consult actively with the friends in Auckland in connection with the purchase of the Ḥaẓíra in that city.

The Guardian calls attention to the fact that the Ḥaẓíra cannot be a rented place.  It must be a property owned by the Bahá’í Community.  Until such time as the National Assembly is formed and incorporated, it can be held in the name of the local Assembly, if it is incorporated; and if not, in the name of an individual.

The Guardian will appreciate advice from you as quickly as possible of the steps being taken to fulfil this important task of the second phase of the Ten-Year Plan.  He feels this property should be purchased during the current year.

With loving greetings,

I am Leroy Ioas

Assistant Secretary

P.S.  The Guardian requests that you inform all the friends that their most important duty at the present time is the fulfilment of the tasks of the Ten-Year Crusade.  This calls for the sacrifice of local activities in order that the national and international development of the Faith may go forward uninterruptedly.  No local institutions should be started.  The National Assembly should see that money is not spent on local centres at this time, and the friends should be encouraged to concentrate on the national and international activities of the Faith.

16 June 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

The letters from your Assembly dated July 6, September 14, November 9 and December 18, 1953, and January 7 (2), February 28, and March 22 and 31, 1954, with enclosures, also the material sent separately, have all been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

Regarding the various matters you have raised, he does not know how the galleys of the Tahitian pamphlet and letters of Louise Bosch happened to be sent to you.  He had nothing to do with it, and is perfectly satisfied that they should remain in the hands of your Assembly.

He has been delighted over the marked progress made by your Assembly in carrying out its own portion of the Ten-Year Crusade.  The number of members of the National Body who have gone forth as pioneers to virgin territories which you have succeeded in opening during the first year of the Plan, the purchase of the Temple site in Sydney—all attest the vitality of the faith of the believers in the Antipodes.  He is very proud of their spirit and their achievements, and believes that they will go very far in their service to the Faith on an international scale.  The initiative shown through the holding of a South Pacific School pleased him immensely.  In view of the work to be done, the number of languages into which the literature is to be translated, the tremendous area throughout which the Australian goals are scattered, schools and institutes of this nature are really essential.

He is also very happy to note the increase in Bahá’í membership, a sure sign of the virility of the faith of the believers.

He feels sure that the visit of the dear Hand of the Cause, Mr Furutan, accompanied by Mr Faizi, did a tremendous amount of good.  Mr Furutan has since made the pilgrimage to Haifa, and spoke very highly to the Guardian of the believers in that part of the world, whom he grew to love and admire very much during his visit.

He was very happy to see that Mrs Dunn was able to attend the New Zealand Bahá’í Summer School.  For a woman of her age, this was surely a remarkable achievement, and must have been a great inspiration to the New Zealand friends, coming as she did so freshly from the last Intercontinental Teaching Conference held in New Delhi.

Now that so many of the goals abroad have been settled, and active plans have been laid to settle the remaining ones, he feels that your Assembly should pay particular attention, during the coming year, to the work on the home front.  The multiplication of Local Assemblies, the incorporation of Local Assemblies and the increase in centers throughout Australia and New Zealand are all-important and pressing, and will require a great deal of work.  The sooner the friends “get on with it” the better!

In connection with the teaching work throughout the Pacific area, he fully believes that in many cases the white society is difficult to interest in anything but its own superficial activities.  The Bahá’ís must identify themselves on the one hand, as much as they reasonably can, with the life of the white people, so as not to become ostracized and eventually ousted from their hard-won

pioneer posts.  On the other hand, they must bear in mind that the primary object of their living there is to teach the native population the Faith.  This they must do with tact and discretion, in order not to forfeit their foot-hold in these islands which are often so difficult of access.

Sound judgement, a great deal of patience and forbearance, faith and nobility of conduct, must distinguish the pioneers, and be their helpers in accomplishing the object of their journey to these far places.

He attaches great importance to teaching the Aboriginal Australians, and also in converting more Maoris to the Faith, and hopes that the Bahá’ís will devote some attention to contacting both of these minority groups.

As he has already informed you, he approves of any surplus moneys in the Temple fund, after having purchased the site, being diverted for the use of the Pacific teaching work.  He feels that your Assembly has shown remarkably good judgement in handling this entire matter.

The most important thing of all in connection with the pioneer work, is to ensure that the believers who, at such cost of sacrifice and effort, have at last succeeded in gaining entry to these far-flung and difficult territories, should remain there at all costs.

As regards the question of how to write some of the Oriental words, like Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the translations which have Latin script, he feels that at least in parenthesis a phonetical pronunciation should be included after the name when the English transliteration is used.  There is no use giving people the Teachings, and not enabling them to pronounce correctly the names that have the deepest association of all with our Faith.  He urges your Body and, through you, all of the dear believers in Australia and New Zealand, and your devoted pioneers serving so far afield, to be of good heart, to persevere, and to rest assured that the Beloved will watch over and protect your labours.

He will pray for all the members of your Assembly in the Holy Shrines, and for the success of your indefatigable labours.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers:

The manifold evidences of the remarkable progress, achieved in almost every field, by the Australian and New Zealand Bahá’í Communities since the launching of the Ten-Year Plan, have truly rejoiced my heart, and served to heighten my feelings of admiration for the sterling qualities which the members of these Communities have increasingly displayed in recent years.

There is no doubt whatever—and I truly feel proud to place it on record—that the community of the followers of Bahá’u’lláh labouring for His Cause in the Antipodes now occupies, by virtue of the quality of the faith of its members, the

soundness of their judgement, the clearness of their vision, the scope of their accomplishments, and their exemplary loyalty, courage and self-sacrifice, a foremost position among its sister communities in all the continents of the globe.  Far from stagnating or declining in number or in influence it has in recent years displayed a vitality which can well excite the admiration and envy of them all, and has demonstrated, beyond the shadow of a doubt, a fidelity to the principles of our Faith, whether a spiritual or administrative, and a capacity for service which all may well emulate.

Though all the goals, in the virgin areas of the globe, assigned to the elected national representatives of these two communities have not as yet been attained, owing solely to circumstances beyond their control, yet the spirit evinced by the pioneers belonging to these communities, who have so gloriously initiated this major task, constituting the foremost objective of the opening phase of this Ten-Year Crusade, has been such as to amply compensate for the inability of their national elected representatives to consummate, ere the close of the first year of the Ten-Year Plan, this initial enterprise marking the inauguration of their Mission in foreign fields.  Particularly gratifying and indeed inspiring has been the response of the members of your Assembly to the Call for pioneers—a response that has surpassed that of any other National Body throughout the Bahá’í world.

The selection and subsequent purchase of the site of the first Mashriqu’l-Adhkár in the Antipodes in the outskirts of a city—the first to receive the light of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh in Australasia, and destined to play a predominant role in the evolution of the Administrative Order of His Faith in that vast area—is an achievement which I heartily welcome and for which I feel deeply grateful.  This remarkable accomplishment will in conjunction with the establishment a decade ago of the National Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds in that same city, accelerate the progress, and immensely reinforce the foundations, of the administrative institutions inaugurated on the morrow of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s ascension, and which are destined to yield their fairest fruit in the Golden Age of the Bahá’í Dispensation.

The second phase of this spiritual Crusade upon which these two greatly blessed, fast unfolding, firmly established, intensely alive communities have now entered must witness the opening, at whatever cost, of the remaining virgin territories allocated to their national elected representatives.  The preservation of the prizes already won in the newly opened territories is, moreover, a task they cannot afford to neglect under any circumstances.  The multiplication of Bahá’í isolated centres, groups and Local Assemblies, in both Australia and New Zealand—a process that has been steadily and rapidly developing since the inauguration of the Ten Year Plan, is likewise of paramount importance in the years immediately ahead.  The development of these institutions, particularly in New Zealand, will no doubt hasten the emergence of an independent National

Spiritual Assembly in that territory, and will lend a tremendous impetus to the onward march of the Faith in those regions.

The assistance which your Assembly must increasingly extend to its sister Assembly in the Indian sub-continent, in connection with the translation and publication of Bahá’í literature in the languages allocated under the Ten-Year Plan, is yet another task which, in the coming months, must be boldly tackled and consistently carried on.  The incorporation of Local Assemblies moreover, is a matter of great urgency and should in no wise be postponed or neglected.  The consolidation work to be undertaken, according to the provisions of this same Plan, is, likewise, urgent and of the utmost importance, and will undoubtedly serve to enhance the prestige of your Assembly and enrich the record of your far-reaching accomplishments.  The purchase of a building in Auckland destined to serve as the National Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds of the Bahá’ís of New Zealand, is yet another objective on which attention should be immediately focused—in anticipation of the erection of yet another pillar of the future House of Justice in that remote part of the world.

Whilst these objectives are being steadily pursued by your Assembly, every effort will be exerted in the Holy Land, as a tribute to the superb spirit animating the Australian and New Zealand believers and to their incessant and meritorious labours in the service of the Cause they have championed, to hasten the transfer of a part of the Bahá’í international endowments to the name of the newly constituted Israel Branch of your Assembly—an act that will at once bestow a great spiritual and material benefit on your Assembly and reinforce the ties binding it to the World Centre of the Faith in the Holy Land.

May the members of these valiant communities, whose interests you so conscientiously serve and whom you so ably represent, continue to prosper under your wise and loving leadership, scale loftier heights in their collective enterprise, and win a still greater measure of fame in the service of a Cause to which they have so nobly dedicated their resources, and which they have served, in the past thirty years, with so rare a spirit of consecration and self-sacrifice.

That they may bring to full and early fruition the manifold tasks they have undertaken is the constant prayer of one who has never ceased to love and admire them for their past and present achievements, and for whose future accomplishments he cherishes the brightest hopes.

Shoghi

11 July 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

ASSURE HOEHNKE LOVING PRAYERS

23 July 1954

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Referring to your loving letter of June 7th and my acknowledgement of June 20th, dealing with the development of the Ten-Year Crusade, and particularly the excellent work which your Assembly is doing in the teaching field:

On reviewing the matter carefully, the Guardian feels that inasmuch as you had previously set up the Dormitory fund, it is satisfactory for you to go ahead with your plans to re-establish it now.  This is done on the basis that it is not a new development, but one which you had already inaugurated and then delayed, due to certain emergencies.

The Guardian would caution that you plan on erecting a Dormitory just as reasonably as possible, as the limited funds which the friends have are needed in so many places at this time.

The Guardian sends you his loving greetings.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas, Secretary-General

The Guardian directed me to be sure and stress—that he is highly pleased with the services of the friends in Australia and New Zealand.  They are setting a glorious example of devotion and action.  Surely they will be greatly confirmed and blessed.

28 July 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

URGE FITZNER REMAIN TIMOR UNAWARE WHEREABOUTS MARQUES SHOGHI

3 August 1954 [Australia and New Zealand]

ASSURE MARQUES APPRECIATION PRAYERS SHOGHI

[Date Unknown] [Australia and New Zealand]

GREATLY APPRECIATE NOTABLE ACHIEVEMENTS AUSTRALIAN NEW ZEALAND FRIENDS SHOGHI

[Date Unknown] [Australia and New Zealand]

GRIEVE LOSS DEVOTED CAPABLE PROMOTER FAITH ETHEL DAWE NOTABLE SERVICES UNFORGETTABLE REWARD ASSURED KINGDOM SHOGHI

29 January 1955

To the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

I am enclosing herewith, Title Deed to two parcels of land on Mt. Carmel, which is registered in the name of

The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand—Israel Branch.

It covers parcel 84, Block 10812, and parcel 424, Block 10810, on Mt. Carmel, Haifa.  It is a part of the Gardens surrounding the Resting Places of the Greatest Holy Leaf, and the Mother and Brother of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá; as well as the Gardens before the new International Archives Building.  It covers approximately 1200 square meters of land.

The Guardian asks that you carefully file and preserve this important document of title to this important piece of land on Mt. Carmel.  With loving Bahá’í Greetings.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

P.S.  The Guardian is now negotiating for a piece of land west of the Shrine of the Báb.  When this transaction is concluded, he will have the land registered in the name of your Israel Branch, as this has been.

8 March 1955

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian is very anxious to secure as quickly as possible, data concerning the Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds which have been acquired in connection with the goals of the Ten Year Crusade.  To this end, he would very greatly appreciate your sending me by return air mail the information concerning the Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds in Sydney and Auckland.

He would like to know the area of land involved, the size of the building, so far as number of rooms is concerned, the original purchase price of the Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds, the expenses of the transaction, and then the total cost.

The Guardian asks that this be sent to me by return air mail.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas, Assistant Secretary

7 April 1955

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian sends you his loving greetings.  He values your devoted services to the Faith very much, and prays that you will be eminently successful in all your activities, and win new goals and victories for the Faith at all times.

The Guardian has received word recently, that the Cocos Islands had become a part of the Australian Nation, or would soon do so;—also that the inhabitants of the Islands would be given Australian citizenship.

If that is the case, he hopes your Assembly will find it possible to send a pioneer into the Islands, so another of the virgin goals of the Crusade will be filled.  He feels if the Islands are now a part of Australia, it should not be hard for an Australian citizen to enter the Islands, and teach the Faith there.  Will you please let me know in due course if anything can be done.  Do not forget that anyone entering the Islands will become a Knight of Bahá’u’lláh.

With loving Bahá’í Greetings,

I am, faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

26 April 1955 [Australia and New Zealand]

CABLE IMMEDIATELY NAMES NEW ASSEMBLIES AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND SHOGHI

8 July 1955 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í co-workers,

Your loving letter of June 27th, has come to hand and its contents presented to the beloved Guardian.

He is very hopeful the plans for Mr Wyss to return to Cocos will materialise so that he may carry on actively the teaching of the Faith in that important island.  The Guardian will pray for Mr Wyss; that every obstacle may be removed from his path, and he attain his goal of establishing the Faith in Cocos.

It is necessary for newly formed National Assemblies to have both their Hazíras and their Endowments.  So far as the Endowment is concerned, this must be a piece of land, not funds; and need not be large.  In fact, something costing about $1000.  Mrs Amelia Collins, the beloved Hand of the Cause, has contributed a fund to cover these endowments.  Therefore when you purchase the endowment for New Zealand, you can apply to the American NSA, as they are handling the distribution of these funds for her.  For the purpose of this goal of the Crusade, Summer Schools, or Summer School property is not

considered an Endowment.  It must be a small plot purchased exclusively for this purpose.

So far as Suva is concerned, it will have to have its Ḥaẓíra and Endowment.  Again, the contribution of Mrs Collins will make this a simple matter.  As I understand it, the formation of the Regional Assembly for the South Pacific is a responsibility of the American NSA, and therefore, presumably, they will in due course take care of the Endowment goal directly.  The Guardian is well pleased with the activities of the Friends in Australia and New Zealand.  They are undertaking the fulfilment of their responsibilities with determination, and he is sure they will not hesitate until all the goals are won.

The Guardian was happy to learn of the progress of the Incorporations, to which he attaches great importance.  Likewise he was pleased with the translation of Mr Christian’s pamphlet into Pidgin English for use in Rabaul, etc.

The sufferings of the Persian Bahá’ís have been intense and severe.  The persecutions and atrocities are completely unwarranted.  Yet the Friends are not flinching, and are an example of fortitude and devotion.  The spirit which has been released through these sufferings must be seized by the Friends in other parts of the world, and the torch of the Faith carried to new heights and horizons, both physical and spiritual.

The Guardian prays the Friends everywhere will arise with such a determination as to offset the difficulties being experienced in Persia.

The Guardian assures you of his prayers in your behalf.  He sends you his loving Greetings.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas, Assist. Secretary

24 July 1955 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letters of July 27, August 5, and November 16, 1954, and January 21, and July 5, 1955, with enclosures, have been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is very happy over the progress which has been made in the area under your Assembly’s jurisdiction during the past year.  The news of the purchase of the Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds in Auckland was most welcome.  The acquisition of this building is really one of the pre-requisites for the formation of the National Assembly of New Zealand; he hopes that the impetus this has given to the work of the Faith there, combined with the devotion of the Bahá’ís will speed the formation of Local Assemblies, which alone constitute the necessary firm foundation for the National Body, a Body which will be one of the direct

pillars supporting the International House of Justice.  He urges, therefore, your Assembly to give all the teaching help it can to New Zealand; and to encourage the believers there to do their utmost to achieve their goals.

The wonderful spirit the pioneers from Australia and New Zealand have shown is a source of pride to the Guardian.  Already they have garnered many rich prizes for the Faith in the form of such romantic, remote and inaccessible isles as Tonga, the Solomons and the Society Islands.  Their determination, devotion and courage are exemplary in every way; and he hopes they will persevere, and not abandon their posts.

It must be made quite clear to the Bahá’ís that opening a new territory or a new town for that matter, meritorious as it is, is nevertheless only the first move.  The consolidation of the Bahá’í work undertaken there is the most important thing of all.  Victories are won usually through a great deal of patience, planning and perseverance, and rarely accomplished at a single stroke.

He was very glad to see that your Assembly had promptly gone to the aid of Mr Blum.  Without the support you gave him so generously and quickly, he might well have been forced to abandon this important post, which would have indeed been a great defeat to our work.

He was very happy to receive the Samoan and Tongan pamphlets.  However restricted in size, such pamphlets as these are a great asset to the literature of the Faith, and enable the teaching work to progress more rapidly.  He hopes that the pioneers will bear this in mind; and if they find any languages that would be of real use to their teaching work, and can get a small pamphlet translated into them, they will endeavour to do so.

As he already cabled you, of the extra 3,000 Dollars which you had left over in the Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds Fund for New Zealand, he wishes you to keep half for the teaching activities carried out under your jurisdiction, and forward the other half to England for the work there, as they are in need of assistance in carrying forward the many important tasks allotted to the British National Spiritual Assembly.

The purchase of the Temple site—reasonable in sum, reasonable in area, and excellent in position—brought great joy to his heart.

He is indeed proud of the achievements of the believers of Australia and New Zealand, and the well-balanced, intelligent and persevering manner in which they go about their business.

He hopes that the private bill you are planning to have passed in the Upper Houses, and which will give the Bahá’ís legal recognition, will go through successfully.  In view of the precedent of the Canadian Parliament when a special Act was passed, legalizing the status of the Bahá’ís in that country, he feels that you should not have much difficulty in Australia.

He is hoping that, after the Riḍván elections, good news will reach him of the formation of many more new Spiritual Assemblies in both Australia and New Zealand.  The multiplication of Bahá’í Centers is, at the present stage of the development of the Cause, of the greatest importance.  In the first place, it means that news of the coming of Bahá’u’lláh is being made available to a greater number of the population; and in the second place, it broadens the foundation of the national institutions which must elect the International House of Justice.  Believers in centres that possess a relatively large voting list should bear in mind that at this time it is highly important and acceptable in the sight of God to disperse and carry the Message to new Centres, both outside the country and within it.

Your Assembly should bear in mind the necessity, in the future at any rate, of having firmly grounded Local Assemblies in all of the States of Australia and New Zealand; and also the importance of increasing the representation of the minority races, such as the Aborigines and the Maoris, within the Bahá’í Community.  Special effort should be made to contact these people and to teach them; and the Bahá’ís in Australia and New Zealand should consider that every one of them that can be won to the Faith is a precious acquisition.

As he surveys the progress being made throughout the Bahá’í world, he is particularly pleased with that achieved in the Antipodes.  The soundness, healthiness and vigour of the Bahá’í Community “down under” is a source of great joy to him, and he feels is an example to the Bahá’ís in other continents of the globe.

He remembers the members of your Assembly and all the dear Bahá’í pioneers and those labouring at home in his prayers in the Holy Shrines, and supplicates that you all may be richly blessed, and render the Faith devoted services.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers:

The achievements that have distinguished and ennobled the record of services rendered by the valiant, fast expanding, steadily consolidating, richly endowed, highly promising Bahá’í Communities in the Antipodes have brought intense joy to my heart, and have, no doubt, excited the admiration of the members of their sister communities throughout the Bahá’í world.  The contribution which, severally and collectively, the organised followers of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh in the Australian continent, in New Zealand and in Tasmania, are making towards the progress of the Ten-Year Crusade in so many of its aspects, ever since its inception, is truly exemplary and augurs well for their future development and triumph under the provisions of this momentous Ten-Year Plan.

The steady increase in the number of believers, of isolated centres, groups and Assemblies evokes my deep and heartfelt admiration and gratitude.  The purchase of the site of the first Mashriqu’l-Adhkár in the Antipodes is a service that has greatly enhanced the prestige of the Faith, and constitutes a historic victory worthy to rank as a distinct milestone in the history of its progressive unfoldment throughout Australasia.  The purchase of the Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds in Auckland, as the future headquarters of the New Zealand National Spiritual Assembly, is another accomplishment that merits the highest praise.  The opening of the virgin territories assigned, under the Ten-Year Plan, to the elected representatives of these communities has, furthermore, demonstrated the readiness of the members of these communities to speedily and worthily achieve the goals of this dynamic Plan in this particular and vital sphere of collective Bahá’í endeavour.  The assistance extended by these same representatives to their brethren in the Indian sub-continent in connection with the translation of Bahá’í literature into the languages allotted to them, under this same Plan, affords, moreover, further evidence of their alacrity, their devotion, their watchfulness in promoting, in every way possible, the manifold interests of their beloved Faith at this crucial stage in its development and consolidation.

Laden with such victories, conscious of the future brightness of their mission, fully relying on the efficacy of that celestial aid which has at no time failed them in the past, it behoves them to rededicate themselves, during the opening months of the last year of the second phase of this world encompassing Crusade, to the tasks they have so splendidly initiated.  The scope of their activities, now ranging out far into the South Pacific Ocean, must rapidly widen.  Their determination to fulfil their tasks must never for a moment falter.  Their vision of the glorious destiny bound up with the triumphant accomplishment of their collective enterprise must remain undimmed.  Their willingness to sacrifice unstintingly until every single objective of the Plan has been achieved must, under no circumstances, be allowed to weaken.  Their unity and solidarity in the pursuit and attainment of their immediate as well as distant objectives must, at all times, continue unimpaired.  The prizes they have won, at the expense of so much sacrifice, in the islands neighbouring the Australian continent, as well as in those lying further from its shores in both the Indian and Pacific Oceans, must not, however strenuous the effort required, be jeopardized.  The opening of the one remaining island as yet unopened among those allotted to them under the Ten-Year Plan must be speedily undertaken.  The translation of Bahá’í literature into the few remaining languages which still require the concentrated attention of their elected representatives must in no wise be neglected.  The process of Bahá’í incorporation, constituting one of the most vital features of their collective enterprise, must be accelerated—however formidable the obstacles which stand in their path.  The establishment of Bahá’í endowments in the Dominion of New Zealand is yet another responsibility devolving upon

their elected national representatives, a responsibility devolving upon their elected national representatives, a responsibility which should be discharged prior to the emergence of an independent National Assembly in that distant and promising island.

Whilst these immediate goals are being steadily and resolutely pursued, attention should, likewise, be particularly directed to the vital need for the constant multiplication of isolated centres, groups and Local Assemblies, as well as to the necessity of increasing, to an unprecedented degree, the number of the avowed adherents of the Faith who can directly and effectively contribute to the broadening of its foundations and the expansion of its nascent institutions.  Particularly in the Dominion of New Zealand, where a pillar of the future Universal House of Justice will soon be erected, must a fresh impetus be lent to this vital process which can alone reinforce the foundations on which this projected institution must ultimately rest.

The Community of the followers of Bahá’u’lláh in the Antipodes is approaching a milestone of great significance in the course of its development through the emergence of this major institution, destined to play a notable part in the evolution of the administrative Order of the Faith in the Pacific Area.

Fully aware of their high and inescapable responsibilities at this crucial stage in the expansion and consolidation of their institutions, challenged and stimulated by the tragic and heart-rending tidings reaching them from Bahá’u’lláh’s native land, where a wave of persecution of uncommon severity has swept over His followers in both the Capital and the provinces; conscious and appreciative of the blessing of freedom so cruelly denied their oppressed brethren in the cradle of their Faith; and determined to offset by their exertions the losses sustained by the Faith in that land, the members of this privileged, this valiant and forward marching community must display, in the months immediately ahead, such a spirit of devotion and of self-sacrifice as will outshine the brilliance and glory of their past and present achievements.

Theirs is an opportunity which they can not ignore or neglect.  Theirs is a duty which if worthily performed will no doubt draw them closer to the throne of Bahá’u’lláh, and considerably enrich their share of inestimable blessings stored for them in the Abhá Kingdom.  May they by their response to the call of the present hour prove themselves worthy of the high mission with which they have been entrusted.

Shoghi

20 August 1955

NSA of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your loving letter of July 11th was duly received, and presented to the beloved Guardian.  He has directed me to respond as follows:

The Guardian feels that the symbol of the ringstone should not be used for a seal, and thus should not be used for the seal of local Assemblies.

So far as the incorporations of local Assemblies are concerned, the Guardian feels that the By-Laws and Articles of incorporation should be just as close to the model that is being used all over the world, as possible.  These are the By-Laws and Articles of Incorporation originally worked out, and then published by the New York Spiritual Assembly, and the National Assembly in the United States.

If your Assembly feels that the proposed Rules for a Spiritual Assembly, etc.  is as close as you can produce these articles worked out by the New York Assembly, under the requirements of the laws of New Zealand and Australia, he approves of their use.  He leaves the matter in your hands for decision and action.

The Guardian has been greatly saddened through the persecutions of the Friends in Persia.  Their sufferings are the ransom for the freeing of the Faith, and its expansion throughout the world.  Therefore, he hopes the Friends will arise as never before, and seizing this rare opportunity, spread the teachings far and wide, and win many souls to the Divine Rose Garden.

He assures you of his prayers in your behalf, and sends you his loving greetings,

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

18 September 1955

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your loving letter of September 5th has just come to hand, dealing with the question of incorporations of Local Assemblies, and other matters.  The Guardian, as I have written you previously, is very anxious to have Local Assemblies become incorporated, and as rapidly as possible.

As I wrote you in my letter of August 20th, the Guardian has enunciated the principle of the Constitution and By-Laws a number of times, and which were reiterated in my letter of August 20th.

He now leaves it to your Assembly to handle these matters to a conclusion with the Local Assemblies.

Perhaps I have not made it clear, but the Guardian feels that there should be no changes in the By-Laws and Constitution which has been put into effect all over the world except such minor corrections as may be necessary to adjust to local laws.  The reason I mention this is that in your letter to the Local Assembly in Unley, you mention that should they have any further doubts, or be unable to carry out all the incorporations in accordance with the Guardian’s instructions, they should let you know, and you would again refer the matter to the Guardian.

In the advices contained in my letter of August 20th, the Guardian now leaves these matters to your Assembly to see that the general program is followed.

I note in your letter of September 5th, you deal with various matters concerning which you had correspondence with the beloved Guardian, such as the sale of the Temple site, settlers in northern Australia, etc.  If I may suggest, I think it would be well, in writing to me, to write only about such matters concerning which I have been instructed by the Guardian to address you.  Other matters should be addressed directly to him.  In other words, the policy he has adopted is that all correspondence should be addressed to him concerning all administrative and spiritual matters with the exception of certain items which he instructs me or someone else to correspond about.  There is no intermediate step at present between the Guardian and the National Assemblies.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

I am, faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

7 October 1955 [Australia and New Zealand]

YOURS AUGUST 29 GUARDIAN FEELS GREATEST NAME TOO SACRED TO BE USED FOR SEAL AND DIRECTS THIS NOT BE DONE IOAS

20 October 1955 [Australia and New Zealand]

ASSURE HAUMONT LOVING APPRECIATION FERVENT PRAYERS SHOGHI

30 October 1955 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

At the instruction of the beloved Guardian, I am writing you this letter, the contents of which he wishes your Assembly to regard as strictly confidential for the time being, until such a time as he wishes to make it public.

He is seriously considering the possibility of having a Bahá’í Temple built in the Antipodes during the present 10 Year Plan, on the Temple site already purchased in Sydney.  This would ensure a House of Worship in every Continent of the globe by 1963.  Also, in view of the strong recrudescence of persecution and hatred of the Faith in Persia he feels that to erect Temples in Africa and Australasia—where it is possible to do so—would be a great comfort

to the Persian believers and a befitting response to their enemies who may well make it unfeasible to build the Tehran Temple during this Plan.

In view of this he wishes you to approach qualified architects and request sketches—preliminary studies—for this Temple, which you can submit to him as soon as possible and from which he can indicate the one he feels would be most suitable.  He makes this suggestion of studies first because the recent drawings submitted in competition in Germany (and forwarded to him) were all highly modernistic and undignified and a lot of money and time was spent for nothing.  There was only one he considered at all possible, and this was not chosen by the judges; necessary qualifications:  a building nine sides, surmounted by a dome.  Note:  circular building.  Seating capacity 500 with possible additional seating in a balcony at a future date.  Height 40 to 45 meters.  Note:  no assembly hall is to be included, only auditorium for worship, with no surrounding rooms, is necessary.  Extra rooms for maintenance, toilets, caretaker, can be in basement.

There is no reason why is should look like the Chicago Temple; on the other hand, he feels these ultra-modern, often bizarre structures are not at all in keeping with the dignity of our Faith.  The type of dome on such structures as Mason Remey’s Temple for Haifa, the Shrine of the Báb and St. Peter’s in Rome he considers beautiful in proportion and suitable.  The style is naturally a question each architect would evolve for himself.  What interests the Guardian is the symmetry of the ensemble and dignity.

He would urge your Assembly to get preliminary studies to him at the earliest possible date, and then he can indicate the one he feels most suitable and the architect can work up full details later.

With loving greetings,

R. Rabbani

29 November 1955 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

This is just a note, written at the instruction of our beloved Guardian, to answer a question raised in your last letter.

As there is no definite and conclusive statement on Vivisection in the Bahá’í teachings, this is a matter which the International House of Justice will have to pass upon in the future.

With loving Bahá’í greetings to you all, and the assurance of the beloved Guardian’s prayers for the success of your labours.

R. Rabbani

5 December 1955 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian has received a copy of the translation of Kenneth Christian’s “Basic Facts” entitled:  “Olsamting Long Bilip Bahá’í”.

The Guardian would like to know what language this is.

Faithfully yours, […]

15 December 1955

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of India, Pakistan and Burma and National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian has directed me to write you in connection with the translation of Bahá’í literature into new languages, as called for by the Ten Year Crusade.

A total of 40 languages was assigned to the Australian and Indian National Spiritual Assemblies.  Of these, literature has been translated into 24, leaving 16 into which literature has not yet been translated.

The Guardian feels that a very fine record has been established in the translation of literature into the 24 languages, and that your Assemblies may well be proud of the work they have accomplished.  However he does feel it is of the utmost importance to complete this goal of the Ten Year Crusade just as quickly as possible; and he therefore would ask that your Assemblies undertake the translation of at least a small pamphlet into the remaining languages at the earliest possible date.  He will appreciate your writing me for him just what the status is, and how soon you feel work can be started on these remaining languages.

Your early advice will be appreciated.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

15 December 1955

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian has directed me to communicate with you with regard to the incorporation of Local Assemblies.

Notwithstanding 3 years of the Ten Year Crusade have passed, during this period no new Assemblies have been incorporated.

The Guardian sees little reason why many Assemblies should not be incorporated in Australia and New Zealand; and hopes your Assembly will be

able to deal with this matter specifically, so that the local Assemblies may be encouraged to incorporate as rapidly as possible.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

16 January 1956 [Australia and New Zealand]

FIFTEEN HUNDRED DOLLARS ALREADY RECEIVED MY CONTRIBUTION AUSTRALIAN FUND SHOGHI

10 March 1956

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian is very anxious that constructive steps be taken at this time looking to the teaching of the aborigines in both Australia and New Zealand.

The beloved Master has often referred to the importance of the original inhabitants of a country being brought into the Faith, as the Cause of God will be the means of stimulating and activating these peoples and the cause of their progress in society.

He feels it would be well for your Assembly to appoint two committees, one in charge of the teaching of the aborigines, and one, a committee of New Zealand people, who will be in charge of the teaching of the Maoris in New Zealand.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

10 March 1956

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í Friend:

Your loving letter of February 22nd was presented to the beloved Guardian, and he has asked me to respond to you on his behalf, to the questions which you raise as follows:

He was very happy to receive the report concerning the translation of languages.  As you know, he feels this is one of the tasks of the Ten Year Crusade which can be brought to a conclusion at an early date; and he therefore hopes your Assembly will follow up the subject just as diligently as possible.  Furthermore the teaching work in the areas involved will be hampered if the literature is not translated.

He is very anxious that you proceed with the printing of the pamphlet in Tahitian.  Please send me 5 copies for him just as quickly as it is off the press.

In connection with the incorporation of Assemblies, the Guardian feels that the general principle which was established by Bahá’u’lláh and confirmed by the Master and is now in effect all over the world of confining the territory of one Spiritual Assembly to one civil area, must now be followed in Australia and New Zealand.  This is the principle that is now being followed in practically all parts of the world, and should be followed now in your very promising country.

It is likely of course that this will result in a great many new communities in Australia and New Zealand, which will spur the friends on to establish Assemblies in each of these new areas, and thus ultimately increase the number of Assemblies in Australia and New Zealand.

In New York there are numerous boroughs which make up the civil limits of New York; likewise in London there are various divisions with local administrative bodies, all of which make up the City of London.  Presumably there is a similar situation in the cities in Australia where you have local Councils, but all of them under the general supervision and direction of one central body, which would be the general government of the City.

If this is the case, there are no objections to the NSA adopting the plan of recognising the area of the central government, and not breaking up a city into various council areas.

In other areas where Bahá’ís from surrounding communities help make up the Spiritual Assembly and community of the given city, this of course will have to be changed in accordance with the policy outlined herein.

I trust this fully explains the matter to you.  If not, I shall be glad to make further clarification.

I regret my original letter of January 29th enclosing the title deeds to the property on Mt. Carmel in the name of your Assembly was not signed.  I have now signed it, and enclose it herewith.

The Guardian asked me to assure you all of his prayers in your behalf.  He is greatly pleased with the manner in which the Assembly is undertaking its heavy responsibilities, and feels sure you will gain many important victories for the Faith.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

6 April 1956

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Enclosed is the beloved Guardian’s message to all Bahá’í Conventions.  He would like you to please share it with the delegates and friends attending your National Convention.

He hopes it will stimulate the teaching work, and particularly the pioneer work.

With warmest Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

13 June 1956 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letters of November 17, and December 12 and 31, 1955, and January 6, February 22, April 24, and May 27, (two), with enclosures have been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was happy to receive the pamphlets which you have had translated and forwarded to him, and which is certainly a welcome addition to the teaching work in the Pacific area.

He was also pleased to see that you have found a friendly architect, who will cooperate in submitting plans for the future Temple in Sydney.  He is eagerly looking forward to receiving them.  Since writing this, they have been received.  He was also glad to hear that another site had been procured.

Repercussions of the Chicago Temple are felt everywhere, and the same is becoming increasingly true of the Shrine.  One single edifice, raised to the glory of Bahá’u’lláh, shines like a beacon and attracts the hearts of the people; no doubt many seeds are sown just through the act of people visiting these edifices—seeds which in the future will germinate.  It is because of this that he is very eager to have the Australian one commenced as soon as circumstances permit.

As regards the question the Auckland Assembly has asked about vivisection, there is nothing on this subject in the Bahá’í teachings.  At a future date such matters will no doubt be taken up by the International House of Justice.

He is very anxious to have as many Local Assemblies incorporated as possible; and was hence very pleased to hear that your Assembly is energetically prosecuting this part of the Ten Year Plan in both Australia and New Zealand.  The visits of the Australian friends to different centers in Australia and New Zealand, as well as Mr Featherstone’s trip to some of the Pacific Islands, have been much appreciated, and he feels sure that marked results will be forthcoming.  Although you who labour in that distant continent may often feel that your work is progressing but slowly, the Guardian, from the perspective that he has here at the World Center, is well pleased with the perseverance, the devotion and the achievements of the Australian and New Zealand friends; and he is proud of their spirit, and feels sure that they will accomplish their goals.

He was very happy to hear that Mr Marques has obtained permission to remain in Timor.  His background makes him a very important pioneer for that area; and he is happy that your Assembly was able to make it possible for him to remain.

The matter of the areas under the jurisdiction of a Local Spiritual Assembly is one which the National Assembly must study, and apply the principles laid down by the Guardian; namely, that within a municipal area, where the people resident in the area pay taxes and vote, the Assembly can be elected, and holds jurisdiction.  Anyone living outside of that area is not a member of that Community, and cannot enjoy the administrative privileges of that Community.  Although this will effect your Assembly roll, it will place the work of the Faith on a much sounder basis, and increase the number of Centers where Bahá’ís reside throughout Australia, which is an important phase of the work in any case.  It will challenge the friends to work harder to create new Assemblies and make up for those dissolved; and he feels sure that in the near future the Bahá’ís will be very proud of the results they have achieved through this change.

He is delighted to hear that the New Zealand friends are so eagerly carrying on their work in preparation for their National Assembly next year.  Their coming of age, so to speak, will be a source of pride to all their fellow National Assemblies, and they will form a welcome addition to the pillars which must ultimately sustain the International House of Justice.

Regarding the question of capital punishment, provision is made for it in the Aqdas, but this is not the time to go into details.  When the Aqdas is promulgated and the House of Justice comes into being will be the time to go into these matters in greater detail.  For the present they should be given no publicity.

Assuring you all of his loving prayers for the success of the work you are doing.

With warmest greetings,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers:

My heart overflows with gratitude, and my admiration is heightened, as I contemplate the range and quality of the achievements of the devoted and valiant adherents of the Faith in the Antipodes, who have in recent years so greatly embellished the record of their services and contributed so remarkably to the progress of the institutions of a divinely appointed Administrative order in that far-away continent.

The entire Bahá’í world beholds with pride and admiration the great victories won by the Australian and New Zealand communities, both in their homelands and in so many islands of the Pacific Ocean, and shares

my confidence that their historic accomplishments, particularly since the inception of the Ten-Year Plan, are but a prelude to still nobler exploits and still mightier victories.

Their exemplary loyalty to the Faith they have so eagerly embraced, their keen enthusiasm, their persistent endeavours, their willingness to sacrifice, their inflexible resolve to surmount every obstacle, their unity and solidarity, their optimism and courage, are assets which I greatly value, and for which I cannot but feel deeply grateful.

Much indeed has been achieved by these stalwart defenders and promoters of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh!  To an extent which they themselves cannot estimate their individual and collective achievements, in both the teaching and administrative spheres of Bahá’í activity, have compensated for the enforced inactivity and the disabilities suffered by their sorely tried brethren in Persia.  The first and second phases of the Ten-Year Plan owe, to a very notable degree, their success to the impetus which the splendid initiative and remarkable resourcefulness displayed by the members of these communities has lent to the onward march of the Faith in that continent.  In more than one way these communities, through their consecrated efforts and the tangible results they have achieved, have set an inspiring example to their sister communities in both the East and the West.  The Author of the Divine Plan, Himself, who during the closing years of His ministry, witnessed the awakening of that vast continent, rejoices over and applauds the rapidity with which the light of His Father’s Faith has spread over and enveloped that continent and its neighbouring islands.

Much, however still remains to be achieved before the laurels of total and complete victory are claimed.

The precarious situation in some of the newly opened territories allotted to your Assembly must be given first consideration and should be speedily remedied.  Any, and every nucleus formed in those islands must be vigilantly safeguarded, and, if possible, constantly enlarged and consolidated.

Special attention, during the opening year of the third phase of the Plan, must be prayerfully accorded to the extension and consolidation of the homefront, with particular emphasis on the rapid increase in the number of the adherents of the Faith, and the multiplication of isolated centres, groups and Assemblies.  The process of incorporation, so long held in abeyance, must be accelerated by every means possible.

A supreme effort must be made, in the course of the current year, in conjunction with the Indian National Spiritual Assembly, to bring to an early and successful conclusion the translation of Bahá’í literature into the languages listed in the Plan, thereby assuring the attainment of one of its vital objectives.

Particular attention should be devoted to the urgent needs of the New Zealand Bahá’í community, through the formulation of a plan which will enable it to swell the number of its administrative institutions, enlarging

and reinforcing thereby the foundations on which its forthcoming National Assembly must ultimately rest.

The goals which both communities are called upon, at this crucial hour in the evolution of the Plan, to achieve have been clearly defined and repeatedly emphasised.  The task, however, is vast and arduous.  The effort that must needs be exerted by the rank and file of the believers is immense.  The challenge that must needs be met is severe.  The promise of eventual victory, if the army of Bahá’u’lláh’s Crusaders persevere in their mission, is clear and unmistakable.

The need of the present hour, as these communities enter upon the third, and, what promises to be, the most brilliant phase of a World Spiritual Crusade, is a still greater consecration to the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh in all its aspects, and a renewed dedication in all the divers fields of Bahá’í activity.

That the members of the Australian and New Zealand communities will unanimously rise to the present occasion, that they will not allow any consideration whatever to deflect them from their high purpose in the days to come, that they will expend every ounce of energy for the attainment of these shining goals, is the deepest longing of my heart and the object of my ardent prayers.

Shoghi

1 August 1956 [Australia and New Zealand]

To the Australian National Spiritual Assembly

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian has directed me to send you, a design for a Bahá’í Temple, prepared by Mr Charles Mason Remey, which the Guardian wishes to propose to you, for the Temple to be built in Australia.

The Guardian wishes you to study the design carefully.  If you have any modifications to propose, these can be submitted to him, or Mr Remey.  These modifications should be sent to me, so I may handle them in turn as required here for Mr Remey or the Guardian.

With loving Bahá’í Greetings,

I am, faithfully yours, […]

4 September 1956 [Australia and New Zealand]

NEW ZEALAND ADHERENCE CIVIL AREA RULING ESSENTIAL SHOGHI

27 September 1956 [Australia and New Zealand]

To the Australian National Assembly

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Will you please refer to my letter of August 1st, sending you a design for a Bahá’í Temple submitted to the Guardian by Mr Remey, and which the Guardian felt might be suitable for your Temple in Australia.

Have you had full opportunity to study the matter, and can you now advise your views.  You understand, the design might be modified, if you have certain aspects you wish further review of.

The Guardian has felt it has more possibilities than the one which you sent him some time ago.

Your early advice will be appreciated, as the Guardian has been anxious to know your views.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

26 October 1956 [Australian National Assembly]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your loving letter of October 20th, has come to hand, with the proposal revision of the Temple design of Mr Remey.

I have submitted to the beloved Guardian, your letter, the letter of Mr Brogan, and the sketch.

There is one point which is not clear, however, and that is, if your National Assembly approve the revised plan for the actual design of the Australian Temple.  You have indicated you have approved the proposed revision of Mr Brogan; but you do not indicate, if this revision, is now your approval of the final design for the Australian Temple.

What the Guardian must know, is what your final recommendations are for the Temple, before he can approve or disapprove.

With loving Greetings,

I am, faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

P.S.  Can you let me know by return airmail, the answer to the above question.

27 October 1956 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your Assembly will be receiving five hundred pounds sent by Mr Varqa on behalf of the beloved Guardian.  This is a contribution for your National Fund to help in the work you are doing.

With loving greetings,

R. Rabbani.

16 November 1956

To the National Spiritual Assemblies of Australia and New Zealand; India, Pakistan and Burma

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian has directed me to write you jointly with regard to the status of the translation and publication of the following languages, assigned jointly to your Assemblies under the Ten Year Crusade.

These languages are:

The Guardian is hopeful this phase of the Ten Year Crusade can be promptly concluded, and is therefore urging that you take in hand the translation and publication of literature into these languages at an early date.

Can you send me a report giving the status of each, so I may make a preliminary report to the Guardian.

With loving Bahá’í Greetings,

I am, faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

30 November 1956 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Referring further to your letter of October 20th, and your letter of November 11th, concerning the Bahá’í Temple for Australia.

The beloved Guardian has directed me to write you as follows:

He approves the changes made in the Temple Design of Mr Remey, by Mr Brogan, with the exception of the Dome.  The dome should remain the same as in Mr Remey’s design.  In other words, he accepts the design of Mr Brogan, with the exception of the dome, and in place of Mr Brogan’s dome design,

he should use Mr Remey’s design.  He feels the question of the dome very important, and wishes to be sure no change is made in Mr Remey’s design.  Can you have Mr Brogan draw up a new design, such as you sent, but showing Mr Remey’s dome.

The Guardian would like your Assembly to take in hand actively, the question of the cost of building the Temple, as now newly designed, including the interior changes, etc.  proposed by Mr Brogan.  It must be borne in mind, however, that the question of cost is a vital factor, and when that is received, it then can be determined on just how far to go with Mr Brogan’s changes, particularly the question of enlargement, etc.

As the Guardian has intimated, he may consider building the Temple in Australia during the present Ten Year Crusade, although that is not decided, and is dependent on the estimated cost of construction, etc.

Under no circumstances should you let the Believers know, there is consideration being given to possible construction now, as if it does not work out, then the Friends will be disappointed.

One of the Friends has made a contribution for the construction, and the Guardian himself will make a contribution, so if the cost is not too much, a start could be made.

Thus, you will appreciate the Guardian’s request that you proceed with the study of the cost of construction.  In that study you will have to give consideration to the building materials, and this should be on the basis of a material which will give a good and lasting finish, but not be too costly.

The Guardian will await with interest, the result of your study of costs—and will appreciate a copy of the finalized design, with Mr Remey’s Dome.

He sends you his loving Greetings,

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

27 December 1956 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Will you please refer to my letter of November 30th, with regard to the finalized design of the Temple for Sydney, and the estimated costs of construction.

The Guardian, as I advised in my letter, is very anxious to have final details, so some decision can soon be made as to the advisability and possibility of constructing the Temple in Australia now.  Thus, if you can hurry the data requested in my letter of November 30th, He will appreciate it.

With loving Bahá’í Greetings,

I am, faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

27 December 1956 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

The beloved Guardian has directed me to write you concerning the number of Delegates to the forthcoming National Convention, at which the New National Assembly of New Zealand is to be formed.

In view of the number of Assemblies in New Zealand he feels the number of delegates should be nine—and that they should be assigned on the basis of Assemblies, the same as you have done in the past.

The Guardian assures you and the members of the National Assembly of his prayers in your behalf.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

19 January 1957 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

The beloved Guardian has directed me to write you concerning the teaching activities in the Bismarck Archipelago.

This is one of the areas mentioned by Abdul-Bahá in the Tablets of the Divine Plan, and should have strong and thriving Bahá’í Communities.  It is assigned to the Australian Assembly for intensive consolidation work in the Ten Year Crusade.

Will you please write me for the Guardian a report on how the work is progressing, how many centers there are, and if active teaching is going on.

With loving Bahá’í Greetings,

I am, faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

26 February 1957 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

The beloved Guardian has directed me to write your Assembly with regard to the Temple design which has been received, and the proposed cost.

The Guardian is greatly pleased with the design as now prepared, and feels it is entirely satisfactory to proceed with it.  The Dome is an improvement, and the ornamental treatment of the top of the pylons of the main floor a marked improvement.

The cost proposed in Mr Brogan’s letter of February 7th, is however, quite too high, for our present finances.  The Guardian feels it must be built for a total of 120,000 Stirling Pounds.  I take it this is somewhat more than 120,000 Australian Pounds.

The reduced cost may necessitate your reducing the size of the Building, but if that is done, it must be on exactly the same proportions as the design which you have sent, and which he now fully approves.

In Mr Brogan’s letter he mentions an external treatment of white aggregate cement, and the internal walls in colored cement.  This may indicate he intends to apply a veneer on the outside of the reinforced concrete building, and a veneer also on the inside.  This is what was done with the Temple in Wilmette, and is very expensive.

What is important now, is for the Temple to be built.  Your Assembly should study what the Master said about the influence of the Temple in America.  Just exactly the same influence will be manifest in Australia, when the Temple is built.

Thus you will see, it is not the size, nor the beauty of the Temple which is important; rather what is important is the Temple itself.

If you find Mr Brogan did have in mind veneer treatment of the inside and outside; then you will also find a substantial saving, if you can construct the building, so the original reinforced concrete of the building, can be treated on the outside and given the color you wish, and on the inside by plastering on the cement.  This is just a suggestion from my experience with the Temple in America, of which I was a Trustee for some 19 years.

The Guardian asks that you study the matter and then let him know, or let me know for him, what adjustments are necessary to bring the cost down to 120,000 Sterling Pounds.

Also perhaps for the beginning, you are planning on too much money, for the Gardening, paths, etc.  Mr Brogan speaks of a drive.  Just what is this?  The immediate approaches of the Temple should not have a drive up to the building.

The Guardian assures you of his prayers in your behalf.  He sends his loving Greetings,

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

P.S.  If the size can be maintained, or nearly so, by a simpler treatment inside and out, that may be a good way to approach your cost studies.

6 March 1957 [To all National Spiritual Assemblies]

Dear Bahá’í co-worker:

The beloved Guardian has been very pleased with the teaching work which has been done in the Virgin Areas of the Ten Year Crusade.  Indeed, all the pioneers have rendered historic and heart-stirring service to the Cause of God.  Now, the banner of the Faith is firmly established over the entire face of

the Globe.  Blessed and happy is everyone who has been able to join in this, the Greatest Spiritual Crusade of all times.

The Guardian wishes to have a full record of the number of Bahá’ís in each of the settled areas of the Crusade, and therefore would greatly appreciate your cabling him, the evening of April 1st, 1957, the number of adult Bahá’ís in your country or Island, or group of Islands.  He wishes this figure to represent the number of Bahá’ís, (both pioneers and native believers), as of April 1st, 1957, or as close to that date as is possible.  No need to give the names or numbers of centers—just the total number of Bahá’ís.

A simple cable is all that is necessary; as per the following example:  “Shoghi Rabbani, Haifa, Israel Somalia five.”

Your loving cooperation will be deeply appreciated.  I send you loving Greetings from the Holy Land.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

9 March 1957 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

The beloved Guardian is very anxious to have a report as of April 1, 1957 of the number of Bahá’ís in the Islands or countries of the Ten Year Crusade.

Will you please send the enclosed letters to the appropriate person or Assembly or Group in the areas indicated, as I do not seem to have the latest addresses.

Your kindness in this respect will be greatly appreciated.

With loving Greetings,

I am, faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

Admiralty Islands

Loyalty Islands

Cocos Islands

Port. Timor

Society Islands

10 March 1957 [Australia and New Zealand]

VARQA SENDING MY BEHALF SIX THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR TEMPLE SHOGHI

13 March 1957 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

The beloved Guardian wishes to know by return cable, the total number of Localities in which the Faith in established, in Australia, New Zealand, and Tasmania.

Will you please send me a cable just as quickly as possible, giving just one figure for each of the countries named.  There is no need to indicate Assemblies, Groups, or Isolated Centers.

For instance, all that is necessary is a cable stating “Australia 50, New Zealand 30, Tasmania 20”.

With loving Bahá’í Greetings, I am,

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

13 March 1957 [Australia and New Zealand]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

The beloved Guardian has directed me to inform you that he has arranged for the Hand of the Cause, Jenabe A. M. Varqa, to see that you are sent 2,000 Sterling Pounds, as a contribution from the Guardian, for the Temple project in Australia.

The Guardian hopes your Assembly will expedite the work on the Temple, so work on the building may be started soon.  In fact, he would be very happy indeed if he could announce to the world in his Riḍván Message, that work has started on the actual construction work, such as a beginning on the foundation excavations, or the like.

Construction work has been started on the Temple to be erected in Kampala.  This will be announced in his message to the Conventions.  He hopes he can likewise include advice of the construction beginning on your Temple.

It would be better not to make any announcement of the Guardian’s contribution, until after the Convention—that is, if you wish to do so.  He will announce the project in his Convention Message, and the setting up of a Fund for the construction work.  Thus it is better not to make any mention now.  Further contributions will be made by him, and this amount should be understood to be a part of his total contributions.

With loving greetings, I am,

Leroy Ioas

28 April 1957 [New Zealand National Assembly]

DEEPLY TOUCHED MESSAGE WELCOME DEDICATION DELEGATES MEMBERS FERVENTLY SUPPLICATING RAPID DEVELOPMENT INSTITUTIONS FAITH DEEPEST LOVE

7 May 1957 [Australian National Assembly]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Under separate cover, at the instruction of our beloved Guardian, I am mailing to you a fragment of the plaster from the Room the Báb was confined in, in the Fortress of Máh-Kú, in Persia.

He is sending this precious memento to be placed by Mother Dunn on his behalf in the foundations of the First Mashriqu’l-Adhkár which you will shortly commence building in Sydney.

He feels sure that this precious dust, calling to mind the sacrifices of the beloved Báb, will be a blessing for the Temple and an inspiration to the friends.

Please acquaint Mother Dunn with his instructions, and see that she receives the plaster safely.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

20 May 1957 [New Zealand National Assembly]

The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Our beloved Guardian has instructed me to write you on his behalf and inform you that the Hand of the Cause, Mr Varqa, will shortly be forwarding to your Assembly the equivalent of five hundred English Pounds, as the Guardian’s contribution to your newly established National Fund.

He hopes that, in the formulation of your plans, particular attention will be given to the all-important teaching work, the foundation of all the activities of the Faith and the most urgent task facing the friends in this critical period the world is passing through.

You may be sure he will pray for your success.

With Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

8 June 1957 [Australian National Assembly]

GUARDIAN CABLES JOYFUL ANNOUNCEMENT ANOTHER VICTORY WON IN CRADLE FAITH SWIFTLY FOLLOWING CRUSHING DEFEAT RECENTLY SUSTAINED BY COVENANT BREAKERS IN HOLY LAND.  NATIONAL HAZIRATULQUDS TEHRAN RETURNED COMPLETING THEREBY RESTITUTION BAHAI PROPERTIES SEIZED AT INSTIGATION OF TRADITIONAL ENEMIES IN BAHAULLAHS NATIVE LAND.  YOUR NATIONAL ASSEMBLY ALSO ALL LOCAL ASSEMBLIES UNDER YOUR JURISDICTION ADVISED CABLE HIS MAJESTY MUHAMMAD RIZA PAHLAVI SHAHIN SHAH OF IRAN TEHERAN IRAN EXPRESSING DEEPEST GRATITUDE FOR IRANIAN GOVERNMENTS ACTION IN RESTITUTION NATIONAL BAHAI

HEADQUARTERS AND ASSURING HIS MAJESTY BAHAIS ARE PRAYING FOR DIVINE BLESSINGS FOR HIS THRONE FOR PROSPERITY HIS GOVERNMENT AND ACHIEVEMENT HIGH DESTINY HIS BELOVED COUNTRY.  IMPORTANT AVOID PRESS RADIO OR OTHER PUBLICITY REGARDING RESTORATION THIS PROPERTY.  LETTER FOLLOWS.  SEND GUARDIAN COPIES ALL CABLED MESSAGES ISSUED YOUR NATIONAL AND LOCAL ASSEMBLIES ‑ HOLLEY SECRETARY

27 June 1957

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í sister:

I am instructed by our beloved Guardian to write you on his behalf and to assure you he was most happy to receive your letter dated May 4.

He rejoices with the New Zealand Bahá’ís in the formation of their historic National Assembly.  They are now firmly launched on the course of their own destiny, and undoubtedly the Faith will go forward very much faster.  They have an advantage not shared by many of their fellow National Assemblies, of exclusively administering the affairs of the Faith in a small area, which means that they can function much more efficiently.  When one remembers the many years that the New Zealand and Australian believers toiled to carry on the work in those two countries, with the sea in between, and inadequate funds to provide transportation, which necessitated so much of the National Assembly’s work being carried on by correspondence, one can appreciate the advantages you now enjoy.

The formation of a new National Body in any case is an organic thing, and a new and lively flow of life will go out into all the members of the Community from this Assembly.

As regards the question you asked him about the site for the Temple, this need not be a large piece of land at this time,—three or four acres would be sufficient for the site if you find suitable land is expensive.  If the worst comes to the worst, when the time comes to build the Temple, the site can be changed.  In Uganda some years ago, they purchased a Temple site, and later, a large piece of land for their endowment.  With the Guardian’s permission, they exchanged the two as the Endowment’s position was better for the Temple.  So you see, it need not be too rigid.  The point is to get a Temple site as soon as possible.  He feels it should be in the outskirts of Auckland, within easy motoring distance, so that the friends can attend services there.  Naturally the closer to the city, the better.

As you formulate your plans and carry them out for the work entrusted to you during the next six years, he wishes you to particularly bear in mind the need of teaching the Maoris.  These original discoverers of New Zealand are of a very fine race, and they are a people long admired for their noble qualities;

and special effort should be made, not only to contact the Maoris in the cities, and draw them into the Faith, but to go to their towns and live amongst them and establish Assemblies in which at least the majority of the believers will be Maoris, if not all.  This would be indeed a worthy achievement.

The beloved Guardian assures you all of his prayers for the success of the historic work you are now undertaking, and he feels sure you will achieve your goals.

With warmest Bahá’í greetings,

Rúḥíyyih

Dear and valued co-workers:

The emergence of the New Zealand National Spiritual Assembly, as a result of the convocation of the first Bahá’í historic Convention held in that far-away and promising Dominion, will be hailed by posterity as an event of the greatest significance, marking the erection of another pillar designed to support in the South Pacific area, the future Universal House of Justice.  My heart overflows with happiness and is filled with gratitude as I contemplate the splendid progress achieved, in recent years, in that far-off island, and note the loyalty and devotion with which the members of this valiant community, now standing on the threshold of unprecedented achievements, have discharged their manifold and sacred responsibilities.

The six brief years that now lie ahead must witness a swift expansion in the scope of Bahá’í activities throughout the length and breadth of that Dominion, as well as a steady consolidation of the foundations of the institutions that have been so painstakingly laid.  The Six-Year Plan upon which the New Zealand believers have now so auspiciously embarked must be diligently prosecuted and brought to a triumphant conclusion.  All must participate, whether young or old, veterans as well as newly enrolled believers, all must contribute their share to the ultimate success of this mighty collective enterprise, however limited their means, however modest their abilities, however restricted the range of their previous experiences.  The increase in the number of the avowed adherents of the Faith; the multiplication of isolated centres, groups, and Local Assemblies; the incorporation of the newly formed National Spiritual Assembly as well as all firmly grounded Local Assemblies; the recognition of the Bahá’í marriage certificate by the civil authorities, and of the Bahá’í Holy Days by the superintendent of schools in that island; the rapid conversion of the Maoris and their close association with the white believers in the administration of the affairs of the community; the consolidation of the work energetically initiated in the South Island; the selection and purchase of the site for the Mother Temple of New Zealand—these stand out as the foremost objectives of the Plan now demanding of its high minded determined prosecutors, the utmost consecration, unrelaxing vigilance and the noblest self-sacrifice.

The tasks challenging the spirit and resources of this community, whose numerical strength is as yet so limited, whose material resources are so circumscribed, whose past experiences have in many respects been confined to a narrow range, are truly formidable.  The allotted time, during which so stupendous an undertaking is to be consummated, is short.  The obstacles confronting its members are varied and manifold.  Yet the sustaining grace promised to all those who will arise, with high-mindedness, courage, dedication and high resolve, to aid in the attainment of these noble objectives, is of such potency that no earthly power can resist the ultimate fulfilment of so glorious a task, or even delay its eventual fruition.

I appeal most earnestly to all those who, in both the teaching and administrative fields, are committed to carry out so magnificent an enterprise, as well as to those who, in an unofficial capacity, are called upon to further, by every means in their power, the interests of this epoch-making Plan, to dedicate themselves, at this hour, to the arduous, yet infinitely precious task they have shouldered, and to devote, in the days and years that lie ahead, every ounce of their energy, to the systematic prosecution of a Plan, on which the immediate destinies of the entire New Zealand Bahá’í community directly depend, and which can alone provide the stepping-stone to the still more brilliant achievements destined to ennoble the annals of the Faith in that remote island of the globe.

Shoghi

12 July 1957 [Australian National Assembly]

INSTRUCT PERSIAN PIONEERS SOLOMONS RETURN PERSIA

17 July 1957 [Australian National Assembly]

GUARDIAN CABLES THAT PERSIAN FRIENDS WERE PROVIDENTIALLY PROTECTED IN EARTHQUAKE AREA PLEASE ACKNOWLEDGE RECEIPT THIS INFORMATION TO GUARDIAN HOLLEY SECRETARY

17 July 1957 [All Hands of the Cause and all National Spiritual Assemblies]

INFORM HANDS NATIONAL ASSEMBLIES TRANSFER REMAINS MIRZA BUZURG ATTAINMENT YET ANOTHER OUTSTANDING OBJECTIVE CRUSADE.  SUGGEST AVOID PUBLICITY SHOGHI

19 July 1957 [Australian National Assembly]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your Assembly’s communications with their enclosures and material sent under separate cover have all been safely received by the beloved Guardian; and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf, and to acknowledge receipt of your letters dated:  August 14, September 6, October 14 and 29,

and December 3, 1956, and February 17 and March 24, May 9, June 12 and 19, 1957.

In connection with various matters raised in your letters:

The photograph of the Shrine on Mt. Carmel was sent to Dr Brasch,35 and we hope that he received it safely.

As regards the “Herald of the South” magazine, in view of the important work lying ahead of your Assembly, and the fact that this magazine is a drain on the limited resources of the Community, he thinks it would be quite all right to suspend publication until a future date when the financial situation permits such expenditures to be made with relative ease.  He leaves, however, the final decision to your Assembly.

The Committee responsible for the publication of this magazine has certainly laboured valiantly throughout the years, and the publication will be missed by its readers.  However, it is some years since the American Bahá’í Magazine was abandoned for similar reasons, and the Guardian feels that you can do so in Australia, and the funds be used to better advantage, at this time.  However, now that you have found a printer in Sydney and appointed a new committee, he thinks you should continue it and give the new Plan a try.

The progress your Assembly has been making on the plans for the Temple, in conjunction with the evidently very able and cooperative architect whom you have found in Sydney, greatly pleases and encourages the beloved Guardian.  He is particularly happy to know that Mr Brogan is pliable in his ideas, and enthusiastic about getting the Temple constructed, even though the original design is not his own.  Unfortunately, owing to the age of Mr Remey and his duties at the International Centre, it is impossible for him to carry out, himself, the execution in detail of his plans or to supervise the construction; and consequently both the Kampala Temple and the Sydney Temple have been entrusted to reliable firms.

The influence that this Mother Temple of the whole Pacific area will exert when constructed, is incalculable and mysterious.  The beloved Master told the American friends that their Temple would be the greatest silent teacher, and there is no doubt that this one building has exerted a profound influence on the spread of the Faith, not only in the United States and the Western Hemisphere, but throughout the world.  We can therefore expect that the construction of another “Mother Temple” in the heart of Australasia, and one in the center of Africa, as well as one in the heart of Europe, will exert a tremendous influence, both locally and internationally.

He is eagerly waiting to receive pictures of the inauguration of the work on the Temple site, and has recently mailed your Assembly under separate cover a piece of the plaster from the Room in the Fortress at Máh-Kú where the Báb was confined, as well as a letter requesting that dear Mother Dunn place this,

as his representative, in the foundations of the Temple.  He would like very much to have a good photograph of this ceremony for reproduction; and he also urges your Assembly to give as much publicity to this occasion, and to the Temple work in general, as possible.

The teaching work carried on by the Australian friends throughout the region of the Pacific under their jurisdiction, has been very satisfactory, and he is proud of the truly immense progress which has been made.  The publication of literature in so many additional languages, the School opened by Mrs Dobbins in the New Hebrides, the increase in the number of native believers throughout the islands, are all indications, not only of the great power of this Faith to touch the hearts of those who are spiritually receptive, but also of the consecration and devotion of the Australian believers.

As regards various questions you asked in your letter of February 17th:  It is of the utmost importance to keep the pioneers in their goals.  If, for reasons over which you have no control, they are forced to leave a certain pioneer area, then he would strongly recommend that, instead of returning all the way to their home base, they be routed to another base in the Pacific where they can serve the Faith.  This is both economical, and hastens the attainment of our goals.  Matters of detail as to how these plans are best worked out, are naturally left to the discretion of the National Body responsible for the area in question.  In your letter of August 14th, you mention a small translation of a Timorese language has been secured from Dili.  The Guardian would like to know what the specific name of this language is, and, if it has been printed, he would like to receive a copy.

He was very sorry to hear that dear Mother Dunn’s son had died.  This, no doubt, in spite of her devotion and fortitude, must have been a severe blow to her at her age; and he hopes the friends will do all they can to comfort and take care of this precious soul—the mother of their Community.  Please assure her that he prays for the progress of the soul of her son in the Holy Shrines.

The successful culmination of the long standing partnership of the Australian and New Zealand believers thru the emergence of the New Zealand NSA is a source of great satisfaction to the Guardian, and no doubt to all the members of both communities.  He feels sure this will mark a turning point in the work in the Antipodes and the neighbouring islands and give a new lease of life to the teaching work throughout that area.  Both your Assembly and that of New Zealand have now emerged into your permanent form as pillars of the future International House of Justice.  The bones of the skeleton of the World Order are growing strong, but only the teaching work can clothe them with flesh.

You may be sure that he will ardently pray for the success of your work, and that you may be strengthened and guided to discharge your important duties and to fulfil your goals under the Ten Year Plan.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers:

The progress achieved in recent years, rapid and extraordinary as it has been, by the Bahá’í Communities labouring so patiently, so methodically, and so faithfully, for the consolidation and expansion of the institutions of the embryonic World Order of Bahá’u’lláh in the Antipodes, has been highly gratifying and has served to deepen my confidence in their ability to achieve their high destiny, and to evoke sentiments of ever-increasing admiration for the manner in which they have acquitted themselves of their task in the face of varied and almost insurmountable obstacles.

Particularly commendable, and indeed exemplary, has been the share of the Australian believers in enabling the New Zealand Bahá’í Community to make such rapid strides, in recent years, strides that have prepared it for the assumption of its sacred and vital function as an independent community, and which culminated in the formation of a body qualified to take its place, and assume the weighty responsibilities incumbent on it, as a distinct and separate member of the world-wide family of Bahá’í National and Regional Spiritual Assemblies.  The great and signal honour, conferred upon their homeland through the selection of one of the most highly advanced, the most populous, and one of the most progressive of its cities—enjoying already the distinction of being the first among them to be opened to the Message of Bahá’u’lláh and to be warmed by the rising Sun of His Revelation—as the site of the Mother Temple of the Antipodes, and indeed of the whole Pacific area, moreover, proclaims their right to be considered the vanguard of His hosts, and the defenders of the stronghold of the Administrative Order of His Faith, in that vast area of the globe, an area endowed with unimaginable potentialities, and which, owing to its strategic position, is bound to feel the impact of world shaking forces, and to shape to a marked degree through the experience gained by its peoples in the school of adversity, the destinies of mankind.

The emergence of a new Regional Spiritual Assembly in the North Pacific Area, with its seat fixed in the capital city of a country which by reason of its innate capacity and the spiritual receptivity it has acquired, in consequence of the severe and prolonged ordeal its entire population has providentially experienced, is destined to have a preponderating share in awakening the peoples and races inhabiting the entire Pacific area, to the Message of Bahá’u’lláh, and to act as the Vanguard of His hosts in their future spiritual conquest of the main body of the yellow race on the Chinese mainland—the

emergence of such an Assembly may be said to have, at long last, established a spiritual axis, extending from the Antipodes to the northern islands of the Pacific Ocean—an axis whose northern and southern poles will act as powerful magnets, endowed with exceptional spiritual potency, and towards which other younger and less experienced communities will tend for some time to gravitate.  A responsibility, at once weighty and inescapable, must rest on the communities which occupy so privileged a position in so vast and turbulent an area of the globe.  However great the distance that separates them; however much they differ in race, language, custom, and religion; however active the political forces which tend to keep them apart and foster racial and political antagonisms, the close and continued association of these communities in their common, their peculiar and paramount task of raising up and of consolidating the embryonic World Order of Bahá’u’lláh in those regions of the globe, is a matter of vital and urgent importance, which should receive on the part of the elected representatives of their communities, a most earnest and prayerful consideration.

The Plan, which it is the privilege of the Australian Bahá’í community to energetically prosecute must, simultaneously, be assured of the unqualified, the systematic and whole-hearted support of its members.

Theirs indeed is a twofold task which must under no circumstances be either neglected or underrated.  The one aims at the consolidation, the multiplication and expansion of the institutions so laboriously erected throughout the length and breadth of the Australian commonwealth and in the islands beyond its confines, in strict accordance with the provisions of the Ten-Year Plan, while the other is designed to forge fresh links with its sister communities, and particularly those situated in the North, in anticipation of the Mission which the newly fledged Bahá’í communities, now rapidly multiplying throughout the length and breadth of that area, are destined and are collectively called upon to discharge.

Whilst addressing itself to the meritorious twofold task with which it is now confronted, this wide-awake, swiftly expanding, steadily consolidating, highly promising community must lend whatever assistance is possible to its newly emerged sister community in the South, and enable her, as her institutions develop and become firmly grounded, to share in a befitting manner, in the collective enterprises that must, sooner or later, be launched and carried to a successful conclusion by the island communities situated in the Northern and Southern regions as well as in the heart of the Pacific Ocean.

May this community which, with its sister community in the North, has had the inestimable privilege of being called into being in the lifetime of, and through the operation of the dynamic forces released by the Centre of Bahá’u’lláh’s Covenant, continue, with undimmed vision, with redoubled vigour, and unwavering fidelity and constancy, to discharge its manifold and

ever increasing duties and responsibilities, and lend, as the days go by, an impetus such as it has not lent before, in the course of almost two score years of its existence, to the propagation of the Faith it has so whole-heartedly espoused and is now so valiantly serving, and play a memorable and distinctive part in hastening the establishment, and in ensuring the gradual efflorescence and ultimate fruition, of its divinely appointed embryonic World Order.

Shoghi

27 August 1957 [Australian National Assembly]

ASSURE MOTHER DUNN LOVING PRAYERS SURROUNDING HER POSTPONE CORNERSTONE CEREMONY UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE SHOGHI

9 September 1957

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The Guardian has been giving serious consideration to the question of widespread publicity in connection with the erection of the Bahá’í House of Worship in Sydney.

It would seem that we should not release publicity in any countries until actual work has commenced on the building.

May I ask therefore that you arrange when actual work is started on the building to send me a cable so that I may release instructions to other National Assemblies, such as, the National Assemblies of the United States, Canada, etc.

Thanking you, I am,

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

9 September 1957 [Australian National Assembly]

FOLLOWING CABLEGRAM RECEIVED FROM GUARDIAN QUOTE ANNOUNCE HANDS ALL NATIONAL ASSEMBLIES FOLLOWING LOSS APPEAL SUPREME COURT GOVERNMENT APPROPRIATION ORDER IMPLEMENTED RESULTING COMPLETE EVACUATION REMNANT COVENANT BREAKERS TRANSFER ALL BELONGINGS PRECINCTS MOST HOLY SHRINE PURIFICATION AFTER SIX LONG DECADES HARAMIAQDAS EVERY TRACE THEIR CONTAMINATION MEASURES UNDERWAY EFFECT TRANSFER TITLE DEEDS EVACUATED PROPERTIES TRIUMPHANT BAHAI COMMUNITY UNQUOTE PLEASE ACKNOWLEDGE MESSAGE TO GUARDIAN HORACE HOLLEY

29 September 1957 [Australian National Assembly]

The Secretary, National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia

Dear Bahá’í brother:

In answer to your recent letter to our beloved Guardian in which you asked a question regarding the marriage of Miss […], he has instructed me to say that it would be best for her to have a civil marriage followed the same day by the Bahá’í marriage.  However, if her future husband insists on having for himself the Catholic ceremony, this is permissible, providing it is understood by all parties concerned that she is a Bahá’í and not a Catholic.  Under these circumstances she can go to church, if he insists on it, but it would be better not to do so.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

21 October 1957 [Australian National Assembly]

APPROVE AGGREGATE DOME LEAVE WINDOW SYMBOLS DISCRETION YOUR ASSEMBLY ADVISE PLACING PLASTER OCCASION CONFERENCE MARCH

24 October 1957 [Australian National Assembly]

National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia

Dear Bahá’í brother:

In reply to the question in your recent letter to the beloved Guardian, the Red Epistle is the Book of the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh—called also “Kitáb-i-‘Ahd”.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

[Section with photographs]

Hyde and Clara Dunn

Hyde Dunn

Clara Dunn

Oswald Whitaker

Effie Baker

First 19-Day Feast, Auckland, 1923

Martha Root with Auckland community, 1924

Melbourne Community, circa 1924

Martha Root with Melbourne Community, 1924

Effie Baker, Hyde Dunn, Martha Root, Clara Dunn, 1924

Adelaide Community, circa 1929

Emily Axford

Hilda Brooks

First National Convention, Australia and New Zealand, 1934

First National Spiritual Assembly, Australia and New Zealand, 1934

Clara and Hyde Dunn with Bolton family

James Heggie

First Yerrinbool Summer School, 1938

Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds, Sydney, 1944

Gretta Lamprill

Collis Featherstone

Melbourne Spiritual Assembly, 1948

National Spiritual Assembly, Australia and New Zealand, 1953

Example of International Telegram from Shoghi Effendi

Example of letter showing Shoghi Effendi’s hand-writing

A. Q. Faizi and A. A. Furútan at Yerrinbool, 1954

Collis Featherstone, Clara Dunn and Thelma Perks

Placement of fleche (lantern), 1960

Mashriqu’l-Adhkár in Sydney

Interior of the House of Worship

Messages to other
institutions, groups and individuals

19 December 1922 [Clara and Hyde Dunn]

AWAITING LOVINGLY GLAD TIDINGS OF AUSTRALIAN FRIENDS IN HOLY LAND

20 December 1922

To the Bahá’ís of Australia

My dearest co-workers in that distant land:

How great was my joy to learn that in that far-away continent, remote from the turmoil and restlessness of a weary world, the Voice of God has been raised and proclaimed and has attracted such a promising number of ardent and faithful lovers of Bahá’u’lláh!

I offer you my heartfelt love and sympathy and the assurance of my unfailing assistance in the great work of service to mankind which is now so gloriously unfolding itself to your eyes.

I have shared fully your news with those loving pilgrims and resident friends in the Holy Land whom I meet regularly in what was in the past the audience-chamber of the Master and who thirst after the tidings of the progress of the Cause in every land.  They, and myself with them, will pray most fervently for every one of you that the seeds of faith and loving fellowship that you are casting in the soil of hearts may germinate and swell the ever increasing number of the valiant hosts of Bahá and enable them to attain glorious victory.

I shall await with eager expectation the welcome news of the extension of your activities, the widening of your correspondence with the various spiritual centres throughout the world, the plans you contemplate for the spreading of the Movement and the means you will utilise for their speedy execution.  On my part I shall never neglect to send you such news as will urge you to press

forward your great work for the Cause and hearten you in your labours of love and devotion at His Sacred Threshold.

Your brother in His service,

Shoghi

18 January 1923

The beloved of the Lord and handmaids of the Merciful throughout the Pacific Islands, Care of the members of the American Spiritual National Assembly.

Beloved co-workers in the Vineyard of God!

Though pressed on all sides by my manifold duties, yet I can always find the time to devote my attention to the interests of those far-away friends who though distant in body are yet at heart so near and dear to us all.

To realize that at this present hour, a company of steadfast and zealous lovers of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá are day and night absorbed by their one thought of earnest service to the Cause in those uttermost corners of the globe, is the highest inspiration and the greatest encouragement in the great task that lies before me.  I am well aware of the Divine Bounties that have been showered upon you in the past and I am confident that every one of you, realizing now more than ever before the significance of these bountiful gifts, will arise with greater selflessness and increased determination to bring this noble task entrusted to him by our beloved Master to a speedy and glorious consummation.

I shall be most pleased and gratified to receive a detailed and comprehensive report of all your activities, of your achievements in the past, your services at present, and your plans for the future.

Those distant islands, the object of our Master’s love and tender care, occupy a warm and abiding place in our hearts, and their very names evoke within us so high a sense of hope and admiration that the passing of time and the vicissitudes of life can never weaken or remove.

Assuring you of my constant prayers on your behalf, I am your devoted brother in His service,

Shoghi

21 January 1923 [Clara and Hyde Dunn, Sydney]

PRAYING FOR GLORIOUS SUCCESS IN YOUR NOBLE ENDEAVOURS

5 March 1923 [Clara and Hyde Dunn, Auckland]

GOD BLESS YOUR GLORIOUS WORK

12 March 1923

The beloved of the Lord and the handmaids of the Merciful throughout America, Great Britain, Germany, France, Switzerland, Italy, Japan and Australasia.

Fellow-workers in the Vineyard of God!

Over a year has elapsed since that calamitous Hour, when the glorious Person of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was veiled from mortal eyes and His Spirit ascended the Kingdom of Glory; and I feel that the time is now ripe to take those fresh and momentous decisions which will enable us to fulfil, speedily and faithfully, the last wishes of our departed Master.

The year has been to the outside world a year of fear and suffering, of disillusion and turmoil.  To us, however, the bereaved followers of a gracious and loving Master, it has been, despite the passing cares which His sudden departure must necessarily entail, a period of hope, of wholesome activity, marked throughout with a spirit of undiminished confidence in His power and of fidelity to His Cause.

From the East and from the West, from the North and from the South, the unnumbered servants of Bahá’u’lláh, disdainful of the evil machinations of the enemies of His Cause, the breakers of His behests, have rallied to His Standard, and risen with one accord to carry on the great Work He has entrusted to their charge.  All-hail to that undying Spirit of Fidelity which burns, and shall burn unceasingly, in the breasts of His loved ones!  Great shall be their reward, and blissful the hour, when after a toilsome life of service, they are gathered to the glory of Bahá, and partake in their Beloved’s Presence, of the joy of eternal Reunion.

But great achievements still await us in this world, and we feel confident that, by His grace and never-failing guidance, we shall now and ever prove ourselves worthy to fulfil His great Purpose for mankind.  And who can fail to realise the sore need of bleeding humanity, in its present state of uncertainty and peril, for the regenerating Spirit of God, manifested this Day so powerfully in this Divine Dispensation?  Four years of unprecedented warfare and world cataclysms, followed by another four years of bitter disappointment and suffering, have stirred deeply the conscience of mankind, and opened the eyes of an unbelieving world to the Power of the Spirit that alone can cure its sicknesses, heal its wounds, and establish the long-promised reign of undisturbed prosperity and peace.

Now surely, if ever, is the time for us, the chosen ones of Bahá’u’lláh and the bearers of His Message to the world, to endeavour, by day and by night, to deepen, first and foremost, the Spirit of His Cause in our own individuals lives, and then labour, and labour incessantly to exemplify in all our dealings with our fellow-men that noble Spirit of which His beloved Son, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, has

been all the days of His life a true and unique exponent.  The sayings of our beloved Master have been noised abroad, His name has filled all regions, and the eyes of mankind are now turned expectant towards His disciples who bear His name and profess His teachings.  Shall we not by our daily life vindicate the high claims of His teachings, and prove by our services the influence of His undying Spirit?  This surely is our highest privilege, and our most sacred duty.

Let us, with a pure heart, with humility and earnestness, turn afresh to His counsels and exhortations, and seek from that Source of Celestial Potency all the guidance, the Spirit, the power which we shall need for the fulfilment of our mission in this life.

Behold, the Station to which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is now calling His loved ones from the Realm of Glory:

It behoveth the loved ones of God to be enamoured of one another and to sacrifice themselves for their fellow-workers in the Cause.  They should yearn towards one another even as the sore athirst yearneth for the Water of Life, and the lover burneth to meet his heart’s desire.

Such is the sublime, the glorious position He wishes us, and all the peoples and kindreds on earth to attain in this world; how much more to achieve unity and common understanding among ourselves, and then arise to herald with one voice the coming of the Kingdom and the salvation of mankind.

With unity of purpose firmly established in our minds, with every trace of personal animosity banished from our hearts, and with the spirit of whole-hearted and sustained fellowship kindled in our souls, can we hope to deliver effectively the Message of Bahá’u’lláh, and execute faithfully the various provisions of our Beloved’s Will and Testament.

Steadfast in our faith, firm in our union, abounding in our love, fervent in our spirit, and selfless in our labours, let us arise and with prayerful hearts make another and supreme effort to fulfil these last words of our Beloved, His most cherished desire:

O ye that stand fast in the Covenant!  When the hour cometh that this wronged and broken-winged bird will have taken its flight unto the Celestial Concourse, when it will have hastened to the Realm of the Unseen and its mortal frame will have either been lost or hidden neath the dust, it is incumbent upon the Afnán that are steadfast in the Covenant of God and have branched from the Tree of Holiness, the Hands, (pillars) of the Cause of God, (the Glory of the Lord rest upon them), and all the friends and loved ones, one and all to bestir themselves and arise with heart and soul and in one accord, to diffuse the sweet savours of God, to teach His Cause and to promote His Faith.  It behoveth them not to rest for a

moment, neither to seek repose.  They must disperse themselves in every land, pass by every clime, and travel throughout all regions.  Bestirred, without rest, and steadfast to the end, they must raise in every land the triumphal cry of “Yá Bahá’u’l-Abhá!” (O Thou the Glory of Glories), must achieve renown in the world wherever they go, must burn brightly even as a candle in every meeting, and must kindle the flame of Divine Love in every Assembly; that the light of truth may rise resplendent in the midmost heart of the world, that throughout the East and throughout the West a vast concourse may gather under the shadow of the Word of God, that the sweet savours of Holiness may be diffused, that faces may shine radiantly, hearts be filled with the Divine Spirit and souls be made heavenly.

In these days, the most important of all things is the guidance of the nations and peoples of the world.  Teaching the Cause is of utmost importance for it is the head corner-stone of the foundation itself.  This wronged servant has spent his days and nights in promoting the Cause and urging the peoples to service.  He rested not a moment, till the fame of the Cause of God was noised abroad in the world and the celestial Strains from the Abhá Kingdom roused the East and the West.  The beloved of God must also follow the same example.  This is the secret of faithfulness, this is the requirement of servitude to the Threshold of Bahá!

We need but glance at the Words of Bahá’u’lláh and the Epistles of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to realise the great privilege of teaching the Cause, its vital necessity, its supreme urgency, and its wide-reaching effects.  These are the very words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:

In these days, the Holy Ones of the Realm of Glory, dwelling in the all-highest Paradise, yearn to return unto this world, and be of some service to the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh and prove their servitude to the Threshold of Abhá Beauty.

What a wondrous vision these words unfold to our eyes!  How great our privilege to labour in this Day in the Divine Vineyard!  Is it not incumbent upon us to arise and teach His Cause with such an ardour which no worldly adversity can quell, nor any measure of success can satiate?

And, now, that this all-important Work may suffer no neglect, but rather function vigorously and continuously in every part of the Bahá’í world; that the unity of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh may remain secure and inviolate, it is of the utmost importance that in accordance with the explicit text of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the Most Holy Book, in every locality, be it city or hamlet, where the number of adult (21 years and above) declared believers exceeds nine, a local “Spiritual Assembly” be forthwith established.  To it all local matters pertaining

to the Cause must be directly and immediately referred for full consultation and decision.  The importance, nay the absolute necessity of these Local Assemblies is manifest when we realise that in the days to come they will evolve into the local Houses of Justice, and at present provide the firm foundation on which the Structure of the Master’s Will is to be reared in future.

The matter of Teaching, its direction, its ways and means, its extension, its consolidation, essential as they are to the interests of the Cause, constitute by no means the only issue which should receive the full attention of these Assemblies.  A careful study of Bahá’u’lláh’s and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablets will reveal that other duties, no less vital to the interests of the Cause, devolve upon the elected representatives of the friends in every locality.

It is incumbent upon them to be vigilant and cautious, discreet and watchful, and protect at all times the Temple of the Cause from the dart of the mischief-maker and the onslaught of the enemy.

They must endeavour to promote amity and concord amongst the friends, efface every lingering trace of distrust, coolness and estrangement from every heart, and secure in its stead an active and whole-hearted co-operation for the service of the Cause.

They must do their utmost to extend at all times the helping hand to the poor, the sick, the disabled, the orphan, the widow, irrespective of colour, cast and creed.

They must promote by every means in their power the material as well as the spiritual enlightenment of youth, the means for the education of children, institute, whenever possible Bahá’í educational institutions, organise and supervise their work and provide the best means for their progress and development.

They must make an effort to maintain official, regular, and frequent correspondence with the various Bahá’í centres throughout the world, report to them their activities, and share the glad-tidings they receive with all their fellow-workers in the Cause.

They must bend every effort to promote the interests of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, and hasten the day when the work of this glorious Edifice will have been consummated.

They must encourage and stimulate by every means at their command, through subscription, reports and articles, the development of the various Bahá’í Magazines, such as the “Star of the West” and the “Magazine of the Children of the Kingdom” in the United States of America, the “Bahá’í News” of India, the “Sun of the East” (Khurshíd-i-Khávar) in Turkistan, the “Star of the East” in Japan, the “Sun of Truth” in Germany.

They must undertake the arrangement of the regular meetings of the friends, the feasts and the anniversaries, as well as the special gatherings designed to

serve and promote the social, intellectual and spiritual interests of their fellow-men.

They must supervise in these days when the Cause is still in its infancy all Bahá’í publications and translations, and provide in general for a dignified and accurate presentation of all Bahá’í literature and its distribution to the general public.

These rank among the most outstanding obligations of the members of every Spiritual Assembly.  In whatever locality the Cause has sufficiently expanded, and in order to ensure efficiency and avoid confusion, each of these manifold functions will have to be referred to a special Committee, responsible to that Assembly, elected by it from among the friends in that locality, and upon whose work the Assembly will have to exercise constant and general supervision.

These Local Spiritual Assemblies will have to be elected directly by the friends, and every declared believer of 21 years and above, far from standing aloof and assuming an indifferent or independent attitude, should regard it his sacred duty to take part, conscientiously and diligently, in the election, the consolidation, and the efficient working of his own Local Assembly.

Regarding the establishment of “National Assemblies”, it is of vital importance that in every country, where the conditions are favourable and the number of the friends has grown and reached a considerable size, such as America, Great Britain and Germany, that a “National Spiritual Assembly” be immediately established, representative of the friends throughout that country.  Its immediate purpose is to stimulate, unify and co-ordinate, by frequent personal consultations, the manifold activities of the friends as well as the Local Assemblies; and by keeping in close and constant touch with the Holy Land, initiate measures, and direct in general the affairs of the Cause in that country.  It serves also another purpose, no less essential than the first, as in the course of time it shall evolve into the National House of Justice, (referred to in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Will as the “secondary House of Justice”) which according to the explicit text of the Testament will have, in conjunction with the other National Assemblies throughout the Bahá’í world to elect directly the members of the International House of Justice, that Supreme Council that will guide, organize and unify the affairs of the Movement throughout the world.

It is expressly recorded in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings that these National Assemblies must be indirectly elected by the friends; that is, the friends in every country must elect a certain number of delegates, who in their turn will elect from among all the friends in that country the members of the National Spiritual Assembly.  In such countries, therefore, as America, Great Britain and Germany, a fixed number of secondary electors must first be decided upon, (95 for America, including the Pacific Islands; 95 for Germany; and 19 for Great Britain).  The friends then in every locality where the number of adult declared believers exceeds nine, must directly elect its quota of secondary electors,

assigned to it in direct proportion to its numerical strength.  These secondary electors, will then, either through correspondence, or preferably by gathering together, and first deliberating upon the affairs of the Cause throughout their country, (as the delegates to the Convention) then elect from among all the friends in that country nine who will be the members of the National Spiritual Assembly.

This National Spiritual Assembly, which pending the establishment of the Universal House of Justice will have to be re-elected once a year, obviously assumes grave responsibilities, for it has to exercise full authority over all the Local Assemblies in its province, and will have to direct the activities of the friends, guard vigilantly the Cause of God, and control and supervise the affairs of the Movement in general.

Vital issues, affecting the interests of the Cause in that country, such as the matter of translation and publication, the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, the Teaching Work, and other similar matters that stand distinct from strictly local affairs, must be under the full jurisdiction of the National Assembly.

It will have to refer each of these questions, even as the Local Assemblies, to a special Committee, to be elected by the members of the National Spiritual Assemblies from among all the friends in that country, which will bear to it the same relation as the local committees bear to their respective Local Assemblies.

With it too rests the decision whether a certain point at issue is strictly local in its nature, and should be reserved for the consideration and decision of the Local Assembly, or whether it should fall under its own province and be regarded as a matter which ought to receive its special attention.  The National Spiritual Assembly will also decide upon such matters which in its opinion should be referred to the Holy Land for consultation and decision.

With these Assemblies, local as well as national, harmoniously, vigorously, and efficiently functioning throughout the Bahá’í world, the only means for the establishment of the Supreme House of Justice will have been secured.  And when this Supreme Body will have been properly established, it will have to consider afresh the whole situation, and lay down the principle which shall direct, so long as it deems advisable, the affairs of the Cause.

Pending its establishment, and to ensure uniformity throughout the East and throughout the West, all Local Assemblies will have to be re-elected once a year, during the first day of Riḍván, and the result of polling, if possible, be declared on that day.

In order to avoid division and disruption, that the Cause may not fall a prey to conflicting interpretations, and lose thereby its purity and pristine vigour, that its affairs may be conducted with efficiency and promptness, it is necessary that everyone should conscientiously take an active part in the election of these Assemblies, abide by their decision, enforce their decree, and co-operate with them whole-heartedly in their task of stimulating the growth of the

Movement throughout all regions.  The members of these Assemblies, on their part, must disregard utterly their own likes and dislikes, their personal interests and inclinations, and concentrate their minds upon those measures that will conduce to the welfare and happiness of the Bahá’í Community and promote the common weal.

And as the progress and extension of spiritual activities is dependent and conditioned upon material means, it is of absolute necessity that immediately after the establishment of Local as well as National Spiritual Assemblies, Bahá’í Fund be established, to be placed under the exclusive control of the Spiritual Assembly.  All donations and contributions should be offered to the Treasurer of the Assembly, for the express purpose of promoting the interests of the Cause, throughout that locality or country.  It is the sacred obligation of every conscientious and faithful servant of Bahá’u’lláh, who desires to see His Cause advance, to contribute freely and generously for the increase of that Fund.  The members of the Spiritual Assembly will at their own discretion expend it to promote the Teaching Campaign, to help the needy, to establish educational Bahá’í institutions, to extend in every way possible their sphere of service.  I cherish the hope that all the friends, realizing the necessity of this measure, will bestir themselves and contribute, however modestly at first, towards the speedy establishment and the increase of that Fund.

The need for the centralization of authority in the National Spiritual Assembly, and the concentration of power in the various Local Assemblies, is made manifest when we reflect that the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh is still in its age of tender growth and in a stage of transition; when we remember that the full implications and the exact significance of the Master’s world-wide Instructions, as laid down in His Will are as yet not fully grasped, and the whole Movement has not sufficiently crystallized in the eyes of the world.

It is our primary task to keep the most vigilant eye on the manner and character of its growth, to combat effectively the forces of separatism and of sectarian tendencies, lest the Spirit of the Cause be obscured, its unity be threatened, its teachings suffer corruption, lest extreme orthodoxy on one hand, and irresponsible freedom on the other, cause it to deviate from that Straight Path which alone can lead it to success.

But let us be on our guard — so the Master continually reminds us from His Station on high—lest too much concern in that which is secondary in importance, and too long a preoccupation with the details of our affairs and activities, make us neglectful of the most essential, the most urgent of all our obligations, namely to bury our cares and teach the Cause, delivering far and wide this Message of Salvation to a sorely-stricken world.

To His valiant combatants on earth, who at times may feel disheartened, our ever-victorious Commander, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, gives the following assurance:

O ye servants of the Sacred Threshold!  The triumphant hosts of the Celestial Concourse, arrayed and marshalled in the Realms above, stand ready and expectant to assist and assure victory to that valiant horseman who with confidence spurs on his charger into the arena of service.  Well is it with that fearless warrior, who armed with the power of true Knowledge, hastens unto the field, disperses the armies of ignorance, and scatters the hosts of error, who holds aloft the Standard of Divine Guidance, and sounds the Clarion of Victory.  By the righteousness of the Lord!  He hath achieved a glorious triumph and obtained the true victory.

With such inspiring words as these, are we to remain any longer unmoved and inactive?  His trumpet-call resounds on every side, and summons us to service; are we to tarry and hesitate?  His Voice is calling aloud from every land; let us march on, undeterred and unafraid, and fulfil our glorious Destiny.

Shoghi

P.S.  On another page is given the list of the best known and most current Bahá’í terms, and other Oriental names and expressions, all properly and accurately transliterated, the faithful adoption of which by all the Western friends will avoid confusion in future, and insure in this matter a uniformity which is greatly needed at present in all Bahá’í literature.  The full code will be duly communicated to the various National Assemblies, and the transliteration of the Oriental terms mentioned in the English letters sent out by the Haifa Spiritual Assembly will provide a correct and reliable supplement to the above-mentioned list.  I feel confident that all the friends will from now on follow this system and adhere scrupulously and at all times to this code in all their writings.

The list of those Bahá’í localities in the continent of America, where the number of adult declared believers exceeds nine, with their number of secondary electors apportioned among them according to their respective numbers, taken as an illustration of the principle which should govern the election of the secondary electors in every country:

The quotas have been assigned on the basis of the List compiled and sent a year ago to the Holy Land.  The readjustment of these quotas will have to be undertaken by the American National Spiritual Assembly before this year’s annual Convention, and should be based upon a revised and up to date census.

List of oriental terms frequently used in Bahá’í literature, with modern transliteration and arranged alphabetically:

13 March 1923

The beloved of the Lord and the handmaids of the Merciful, throughout Australasia

Dearly beloved brethren and sisters in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá!

I have been deeply touched by the welcome letter which our beloved friends, Mr and Mrs Dunn, have sent me from that far-away land, and I am delighted to hear of the deep and widespread interest that they have awakened in the hearts of its people in the truths of this glorious Revelation.  Their marvellous energy, their unwavering determination, their devoted labours to spread the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh far and wide have excited the admiration of all the resident friends in the Holy Land and have revived my hopes for the glorious future of that distant continent.  I have incorporated the contents of that encouraging letter in the circular letter which is sent once every nineteen days by the Spiritual Assembly of Haifa to all the various Spiritual Assemblies throughout the East and I am confident that your news will be received by all of them with intense delight and gratitude.

May that small and rising community in Australia raise the Call of the New Day of God in the heart of that promising continent, and set aflame the hearts of its people with the Bahá’í Spirit that alone can give the world the Peace that it craves for and which no human power can ever hope to achieve.

I have also read with deep satisfaction the enclosed letters sent by my beloved Bahá’í brother and sister Mr B. Dewing and Miss Nora Lee.

I very earnestly urge them to concentrate for the present their attention on the spread of the Movement in Australia, and do all they can to establish various Bahá’í centres in those remote regions of the globe.  I sincerely and fervently pray on their behalf that they may be divinely guided and richly blessed in their efforts to consolidate the Work that has been so admirably and beautifully started in that land.  Extreme pressure of work, unfortunately, prevents me from corresponding with the friends individually, but I wish to assure them one and all that in my hours of prayer and silent meditation, I remember them most tenderly and beseech on their behalf whenever I visit the Sacred Shrines, the protection and the grace of God, that they may herald the Glad-Tidings of the Kingdom to this distracted and disillusioned world.

Regarding the questions raised in our beloved Bahá’í brother, Mr Dewing’s letter, I feel that I can not add to what has already been fully and clearly stated by our Master ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the book of “Some Answered Questions”, where, I am sure, she will find the clue to all the perplexing questions that agitate the mind of man in his search after true knowledge.  The more this Book is read with care and patience, the greater are its revelations, and the more complete the understanding of its inner truth and significance.

I am enclosing for your perusal various selections and prayers from the writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, which I am sure will stimulate you to further action and greater perseverance in your labours for His Cause.

I eagerly await your individual as well as collective letters, and am so anxious to know more of the progress of your activities, and the plans that you contemplate for the effective propagation of the Movement in that part of the world.

Assuring you again of my constant prayers for your guidance, protection and success in the field of service,

I am your devoted brother and co-worker

7 May 1923

The beloved of the Lord and the handmaids of the Merciful in New South Wales, New Zealand and Victoria.  Care of Mr and Mrs Hyde Dunn, Victoria.

Dearly beloved brethren and sisters in the Love of God!

The two letters which I have recently received from our active and devoted brother, Mr Hyde Dunn, dated April 1st and 5th, have given me the greatest pleasure, as they indicated the growth of a deepfelt interest in the Movement, throughout those outlying regions of the earth.

How great is your privilege to labour in this Day in the Divine Vineyard!  How sweet and encouraging the thought that the seeds you now scatter will soon germinate and yield an abundant harvest!  It is my prayer and hope that your energy may never slacken, your faith and courage never fade, that you may advance, steadily and peacefully, and attain your heart’s desire.  It is of the utmost importance that those friends whose souls have been illumined by the Light of this Divine Revelation, should if possible scatter over that vast continent, establish themselves in various localities, and from there as their permanent headquarters, travel in the vicinity and endeavour to win to this Cause the most able, the most enlightened of all men.

I shall be most happy to learn of the address of these various permanent residences, that I may immediately communicate with them all, and do all that I can to consolidate their respective centres, and promote the work of Teaching.  I would welcome also the permanent postal and telegraphic address of Mr and Mrs Hyde Dunn, which will enable me to keep in constant touch with the progress of the Work in that part of the world.

It is my ardent prayer that Mrs Culbert will grow in understanding and power and become one of the resplendent lights in this Divine Dispensation.

I very strongly urge you, whenever possible to travel to the Islands of the South Seas, and there raise the glorious Call of the Kingdom, and attract many a soul to these heavenly Teachings.  I pray at the Three Holy Shrines that the

way may be made open, that obstacles may be speedily surmounted, that His promises may be fulfilled.

The Greatest Holy Leaf, whose health I am glad to announce is steadily improving, joins me in wishing you all the highest success in your noble and steadfast endeavours.

Your brother and co-worker

22 June 1923

Miss Margaret B. Stevenson,

Clunie, 3 Cowie Road, Parnell, Auckland, New Zealand

My dear Bahá’í sister,

Your beautiful letter of April 3rd written to the beloved Guardian of the Cause of God, our dear Shoghi Effendi was received.  He was much impressed and charmed with the spirit of your letter which indicated deep devotion to and absolute dependence on the Holy Spirit of the beloved Master, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

He instructed me with a heart overflowing with love to answer your letter, conveying to you his high estimation for the beauty of the faith of the New Zealand friends and deep appreciation towards the splendid services of our dear Mr and Mrs Dunn who are so wonderfully blessed and assisted by the power of the Holy Ghost.  He loves you all and prays for your happiness and spiritual growth.

It is true that your group is now still small, but he assures you that your group will before long grow larger and larger day by day.  It has been always the case with the growth of every religion.  Some pure soul or souls go to some land and sow the seeds of the heavenly teachings in the hearts of few who are most pure and so most receptive.  The seeds will germinate and grow in them.  The fruits of those seeds appear in the regeneration of the lives of those primary adherents.  These primary adherents share the bounties they have received with other souls who through them obtain new life and light and in turn illumine other people.

The primary adherents are the stars of great magnitude in every land in the firmament of the Kingdom of God.  They are the chosen people.  They are like candles which, through their sacrificial efforts, are weeping their lives away in order to give light to the world and establish the purpose of their Lord and Saviour, which purpose is the salvation of mankind.  Reflect upon the time of that great Saviour of mankind, His Holiness Jesus Christ!  See how small the group of His disciples was!  No matter how few the number of the disciples was, yet they through His power illumined the world.  Our Era is similar to that, but through the development of humanity it is greater and through the evils of the material civilization and negligence of mankind our sacrifices must be greater.  Divine light must make itself manifest in our daily life deeds.

In the early days of the appearance of our Saviour virtue was to save ourselves.  When we are once established in our faith, then virtue is to save others.  The three mottoes of education hold true in our case too.  First grow, then become and then contribute.  We have developed; we have established ourselves; and now it is time to contribute to others.  We have inexhaustible capital.  The candles of our spiritual lives constantly weep away their lives in shedding light to the world, but they never become exhausted.  For there is connection between our lives and that of Bahá’u’lláh and our beloved ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

It cannot be described how much we long to see our dear New Zealand brethren and sisters.  We hope the day will come when they can come to us and we to them.  Meanwhile, we are praying at the Holy Threshold of our beloved Master for your success and happiness.  We hope you will pray for us too.  The effect of the prayers of the pure hearts is tremendously great.

Our dear Shoghi Effendi wants you not to look at your own capacity, but at the power of the Holy Ghost of God.  He sends you all his loving greeting and tender affection.

With warm wishes and Bahá’í love I remain,

Your humble brother in His love,

‘Azízu’lláh S. Bahádur

2 December 1923 [Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand]

Fellow-labourers in the Divine Vineyard!

Upon my return, after a forced and prolonged absence, to the Holy Land, it is my first and most ardent wish to renew and strengthen those ties of brotherly love and fellowship that bind our hearts together in our common servitude to His Sacred Threshold.

The two years that have elapsed since the passing of our beloved Master have been for the Cause, as well as for mankind, years of deep anxiety and strain.  The momentous changes that are taking place in the history of both have proved so swift and far-reaching as to arouse in certain hearts a strange misgiving as to their stability and future.

On the one hand the remarkable revelations of the Beloved’s Will and Testament so amazing in all its aspects, so emphatic in its injunctions, have challenged and perplexed the keenest minds, whilst the ever-increasing confusion of the world, threatened as never before with disruptive forces, fierce rivalries, fresh commotions and grave disorder, have well-nigh overwhelmed the heart and damped the zeal of even the most enthusiastic believers in the destiny of mankind.

And yet, how often we seem to forget the clear and repeated warnings of our beloved Master, who in particular during the concluding years of his mission

on earth, laid stress on the severe mental tests that would inevitably sweep over his loved ones of the West—tests that would purge, purify and prepare them for their noble mission in life.

And as to the world’s evil plight, we need but recall the writings and sayings of Bahá’u’lláh, who, more than fifty years ago, declared in terms prophetic the prime cause of the ills and sufferings of mankind, and set forth their true and divine remedy.  “Should the lamp of Religion be hidden”, He declared, “chaos and confusion will ensue.”  How admirably fitting and applicable are these words to the present state of mankind!

Ours then is the duty and privilege to labour, by day, by night, amidst the storm and stress of these troublous days, that we may quicken the zeal of our fellow-man, rekindle their hopes, stimulate their interests, open their eyes to the true Faith of God and enlist their active support in the carrying out of our common task for the peace and regeneration of the world.

Let us take heart and be thankful to our beloved ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, as we remember his manifold blessings and unfailing care and protection, ever since the hour of his departure from our midst.  The flames of sedition, so maliciously kindled in the past by those who have dared to flout his will, are gone forever, and the fondest hopes of these evil plotters are now abandoned, doomed never to revive.  He has indeed redeemed his promise!

It seemed not a long time ago that their agitation, so violently renewed immediately after the passing of our Beloved, would for a time confuse the Divine Message of Bahá’u’lláh, obscure His Covenant, retard the progress of His Cause, and shatter its unity; and yet how well we see them all today, not through our efforts, but by their own folly, and above all, by the intervention of the hidden hand of God, reduced to the vilest and most humiliating position.

And now, with the Cause purified and inwardly victorious, Its principles vindicated, Its enemies silenced and sunk in unspeakable misery, may we not, henceforth, direct all our efforts to collective action and constructive achievement; and in utter disregard of the flickerings of their fast-fading light, arise to carry out those urgent measures that will secure the outward and complete triumph of the Cause?

I for my part, as I look back on the unfortunate circumstances of ill-health and physical exhaustion that have attended the opening years of my career of service to the Cause, feel hardly gratified, and would be truly despondent but for the sustaining memory and inspiring example of the diligent and ceaseless efforts which my fellow-workers the world over have displayed during these two trying years in the service of the Cause.

I cherish the hope that, from now on the Beloved may bestow upon me all the strength and vigour that will enable me to pursue over a long and unbroken period of strenuous labour the supreme task of achieving, in collaboration with the friends in every land, the speedy triumph of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh.  This

is the prayer I earnestly request all my fellow brethren and sisters in the Faith to offer on my behalf.

Let us pray to God that in these days of world encircling gloom, when the dark forces of nature, of hate, rebellion, anarchy and reaction are threatening the very stability of human society, when the precious fruits of civilisation are undergoing severe and unparalleled tests, we may all realise more profoundly than ever, that though but a mere handful amidst the seething masses of the world, are in this day the chosen instruments of God’s Grace, that our Mission is most urgent and vital to the fate of humanity and, fortified by these sentiments, arise to achieve God’s holy purpose for mankind.

Your brother in His service,

Shoghi

For my beloved brethren and sisters in Australia and New Zealand—Shoghi

26 January 1924

The dearly-beloved ones of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá throughout Australia, New Zealand, Tasmania, and the adjoining islands of the Pacific.

Friends and heralds of the Kingdom of Bahá’u’lláh!

A fresh breeze, laden with the perfume of your love and devotion to our beloved Cause, was wafted again from your distant southern shores to the Holy Land, and has served to remind us one and all of that unquenchable spirit of service and self-sacrifice which the passing of our Beloved has in these days kindled in almost every corner of the world.  The letters now and then received from those faithful untiring pioneers of the Cause of God Mr and Mrs H. Dunn, are in themselves not only a convincing testimony of the ever-advancing Faith of God, proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh, but set as well a magnificent example to those who yearn and endeavour to further His Cause and adhere faithfully to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s last instructions.

The progress of your labours, however modest and inconspicuous at first, the world and all the forces therein can never resist; and the Spirit of Bahá’u’lláh working so amazingly through every one of you the changes and chances of this distracted world can never quench.  You are assuredly of those few, yet highly favoured, harbingers of the new Day of God, towards the establishment of which the world in its distress and turmoil is fastly, though unconsciously, moving on, and the full triumph of which, if it be His Will and Desire, I trust, you will all witness.

I pray that your meeting and collaboration with our beloved Martha Root, that admirable and zealous disciple of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, will stimulate and advance your work, fortify your spirit, and reinforce your endeavours to penetrate fields, hitherto unexplored, wherein you may achieve signal victories.  My ardent prayer at His sacred Shrine is that your vision of so great and precious a Cause

may never grow dim, that your convictions may never falter, that you may continue, steadfast, radiant and undaunted, your task so nobly begun, and achieve in the fullness of time its destined and glorious consummation.

In this prayer join me the bereaved Ladies of the holy household whose eyes are turned tenderly and expectant towards you, seeking and finding in every one of you the alleviation of their grief at the Beloved’s sudden departure, and the hope for the triumph of a Cause for which He laboured and gave His life.  That you will guard His trust and achieve His victory, we are firmly convinced, and together with this expression of our confidence and firm belief may we convey to you all a measure of our undying love and deep affection.

Your devoted brother in His service,

Shoghi

10 October 1924

Miss Martha Root,

c/o American Consul, Sydney, Australia

My dear Bahá’í sister, Martha,

Your interesting letter of September 10th written to our dear Shoghi Effendi arrived yesterday and gladdened his dear heart.  He appreciates very highly your sacrificial efforts in spreading the divine teachings in those distant countries and prays for your success very affectionately.

Today he instructed me to write a few words and inform you of the receipt of your letter and assure you of his great love for you.  As to the plan of your future journeys he wishes you to follow the dictates of your pure heart.  Depend entirely on the guidance of our Beloved, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá who will guide you whether to travel alone or with sister Effie Baker.  Shoghi Effendi prays for her confirmation too.

He is very glad to hear that our brother Mr Dewing is wonderfully confirmed in the realisation of his high aspirations in service to the Cause of God.  He especially prays at the Holy Shrines for his success and wishes you to convey to him his affectionate Bahá’í greeting.

Shoghi Effendi also instructed me to send twenty pounds to you through our brother Roy.  This is meant as a little contribution towards your comfort in travelling.

The Greatest Holy Leaf and the other members of the Holy Family are sending you their tender love and assure you of their loving prayers for you too.

Your humble brother in service to our Beloved, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and our dear Guardian,

‘Azízu’lláh

26 December 1924 [Effie Baker]

My dear Bahá’í sister,

I wish to thank you for your kind letter to our dear Shoghi Effendi, and desire to assure you of his great pleasure to see you here in Haifa, the Holy Land not only for Jews and Christians but for Bahá’ís also.

We all hope that you will have a pleasant journey from Australia, and will soon find yourself in the warmer country of Palestine.  Shoghi Effendi feels that your field of service is very wide in Australia and hopes and prays that you will succeed not only in living a true Bahá’í life but also in attracting new souls to the great message of God.

The family of the Master all join me in the utmost love to the friends there and especially to your own dear self,

Yours in His service,

Soheil

My dear precious fellow-worker,

Just a word to assure you personally of my unceasing prayers for your welfare and the success of your glorious efforts for the spread of the Cause.  Persevere in teaching, work unceasingly and the victory will be yours.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

19 March 1925

To the beloved of the Lord and the handmaids of the Merciful in Melbourne, Perth, Sydney, North Adelaide, Auckland and Hobart.  Care of the dearly beloved servants of God.

Mr and Mrs H. Dunn, Melbourne, Australia

My dearly beloved brothers and sisters in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá!

The fragrant messages of love, of loyalty and hope that have reached me from that most promising land have filled my heart with gladness and have greatly encouraged me in my work.  All praise to that magnificent spirit of fidelity and devotion which your indefatigable spiritual parents, Mr and Mrs H. Dunn have displayed for the propagation and the consolidation of the Bahá’í Faith in those remote corners of the earth!  Their memorable services are graven upon my heart and stand as a remarkable testimony of the undiminished potency of the creative power of Bahá’u’lláh.  The marvellous accounts that have reached us of the progress of this mighty Cause in Australia and New Zealand have stirred deeply the hearts of the resident friends in the Holy Land and have been broadcasted throughout the East, so that the harassed and long-suffering friends in Persia may be relieved and comforted by the story of such wondrous triumphs in that far-away continent.

Surely the hidden hand of God is directing you, His Spirit is inspiring you and the power of His Word reinforcing every effort you make for the advancement of His Cause.  We all feel that the promised glories of this Divine Dispensation will ere long unfold in that remote corner of the globe and reflect its radiance on the surrounding regions and fill the friends the world over with renewed enthusiasm and hope.

I hope and pray that the members of the newly established Local Spiritual Assemblies, whenever formed in any given locality, will initiate, each group within its own province, a well-conceived campaign of Teaching, and will do its utmost to protect the interests and extend the sphere of the Cause.  Should circumstances be favourable and the friends after consultation find it feasible and practicable, I would advise you to undertake in the days of Riḍván (April 21-May 2) the election of the National Spiritual Assembly of Australia and New Zealand.  I am enclosing a copy of my general letter to the West which will assist you in the conduct of the affairs of the Local and National Assemblies.  What is however of paramount importance in these days is the advancement, by every means at our disposal, of the work of teaching that we may be able to add to our number such souls as would give their unreserved allegiance to the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh and consecrate their lives to His service.

The first party of Bahá’í pilgrims from Australia and New Zealand have safely arrived and we pray that they will return to their respective fields of labour with fresh enthusiasm and renewed vigour, determined to do their utmost for the spread and ultimate triumph of our beloved Cause.

I assure you of my love, my keen interest in your work, my steadfast prayers for your welfare and success,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

9 April 1925

Mr and Mrs Hyde Dunn

“Belmont”, Clarendon St., East Melbourne, Australia

Alláh-u-Abhá!

Dear Bahá’í brother and sister,

Shoghi Effendi has asked me to reply to your letters of 19th and 29th January, and I also owe you a letter on my own account, and it is with great pleasure that I take my pen in hand to write to you.

We had a delightful visit, lasting three weeks, from the three Blundells, Margaret Stevenson and Effie Baker, whom the Holy Family and the friends here came to love very much.  They are very sincere and selfless souls.  We hope

you have many more such in the various groups you have founded.  Few things have contributed more to Shoghi Effendi’s happiness during the last year or two than the progress of the Cause in Australasia, thanks to your tireless and selfless efforts.  We all hope that what has been accomplished up till now may be but a foretaste of much greater progress in the future when those you have been training and teaching become themselves active workers.  Martha Root is still here and will remain a few days longer.  She is working hard at the study of Esperanto in order to equip herself still better for her teaching and travelling work.  When she leaves here she will go to Egypt for about a fortnight, then on to Europe where Geneva will probably be her headquarters for 3 or 4 months.  Then she expects to go to England and other parts of Europe.  I wish we had many such workers as she.

We were delighted to hear about the success of your work in Adelaide and the founding of the Assemblies there—especially that your business manager and his wife and children have become so deeply interested.

Shoghi Effendi has already replied to your questions about a National Spiritual Assembly for Australasia in his general letter to the believers there.  We hope that it will soon be possible to start Assemblies in Sydney, Hobart, Brisbane, and other centres.

By the way, if you ever visit Ararat, Victoria, be sure to call on Mrs Edward Gray, High St.  She was my Sunday School teacher when I was a youngster and we have always kept up friendly relations, which were renewed when I spent a year in Ararat as Med.  Supt.  of the hospital there.  At that time I was not a Bahá’í, but Mrs Gray has since read my book on the Cause and is considerably interested.  I am sure she would be delighted to meet you.  Her husband is a commercial traveller and she has three grown-up children.

We hope and pray that the way may be opened up for you to visit Brisbane this year, and to revisit all the centres where you have already sown the seed, in order to water the seedlings that have taken root and to sow fresh good seed in the prepared ground.

We hope and pray too that the Australasian pilgrims who have just been here may return from the Holy Shrines and from their travels with a fresh baptism of the Spirit and with hearts aflame with the love of God, ready to continue their work for the Cause with greater enthusiasm, wisdom and power.  Shoghi Effendi entirely approves of your suggestion regarding “An International Song of Love” and hopes you will be confirmed in having it perfected and set to suitable music.  There is one phrase in the suggested text that I think had better be altered or omitted viz.:  “not by force—happiness and force are impossible”.  It is true of course that when love reigns in all hearts violence becomes unnecessary, but the sentence as it stands does not appear to me to be well-worded.  Both happiness and force are not only possible but

existent, and have co-existed in the world since the dawn of history, and the Bahá’í teachings admit that in past ages and even at the present time Love and Justice have had to make use of force—Christ drove the money changers from the Temple with a scourge.  Both Moses and Muḥammad resorted to military measures and various forms of punishment and Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá both teach that under certain circumstances the use of force in the interests of justice is not only permissible but incumbent—in order to prevent unjust aggression.

With this slight exception the words you have chosen seem to me admirable.  I am afraid I did not acknowledge the receipt of your last letter enclosing money-order for the last lot of books you ordered from me, but I got it all right about a month ago.  Since then I have had about 3 weeks in bed owing to an attack of pleurisy, from which I am now convalescing.  I was in hospital most of the time the New Zealand and Australian friends were here and so did not see as much of them as I should have liked.

Mount Carmel is looking its best now, adorned with the Spring foliage and flowers.  The gardens at the Shrines of the Báb and the Beloved Master are very beautiful.  Shoghi Effendi has taken a great personal interest in the laying out and planting of these gardens which are said to be the most beautiful in Palestine.

We all hope that some time Mrs Dunn and you may be able to make a pilgrimage to Haifa and I hope that sometime our beloved Guardian may be able to visit the Bahá’í Centres in Australasia.  I should love to revisit Australia myself and meet the friends there.  God willing, that too may come to pass sometime.  Shoghi Effendi has most kindly invited me to make this my headquarters for the next few months.  I may go to Europe for about 3 months in Summer, to escape the hot season here, but shall probably return here for next winter to continue my Persian studies, translation work and giving Shoghi Effendi some help in his correspondence.

With warmest love and heart-felt prayers for God’s richest blessings on your life and work, in which Shoghi Effendi and all the Holy Family, Martha Root and all the friends here join,

Your brother in the Master’s service,

J. E. Esslemont

My most precious, my dearly-beloved friends!

It is always an indescribable joy to receive your letters and learn of the marvellous progress of your work, your cherished names are graven in letters of gold upon my heart and the memory of your unremitting and selfless labours is an inspiration to me in the discharge of my manifold and arduous duties.  Your exemplary devotion, your unrivalled services are being abundantly rewarded by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and He who loves you and guides you will surely bless you even

more richly than before.  We have witnessed with profound admiration and the deepest emotion the remarkable results of your self-sacrificing labours and have been refreshed and encouraged by meeting the first fruits of your splendid efforts—the beloved pilgrims from Australia and New Zealand.  We have all remembered you in our prayers and we trust their return will add a fresh impetus to the memorable work you are doing in those remote corners of the globe.  I assure you of my profound affection, my ardent prayers for you both and my heartfelt gratitude and appreciation,

Shoghi

8 May 1925 [Sarah Blundell]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Shoghi Effendi was very pleased to receive this morning your letter of 28th April, but we were very sorry to hear you have been ill and hope your health will soon be completely restored.  It was nice that you saw Shoghi’s sister and Soheil’s brother in London.

I forget whether I gave you the address of Mr and Mrs King, c/o Messrs Hayman and King, 202 Old Christchurch Rd, Bournemouth.  They are very kind-hearted Bahá’ís and will be delighted to see any of you if you call.  Both of them work in the business and you are most likely to see them if you call there.  They live above the shop.

I gave you Sister Challis’s address at West Moors (Ferndown Lodge).  You can get there by ‘bus from Bournemouth Sq. or Lansdowne, which will drop you right at Sister Challis’s door (She keeps a nursing home) or you can go by train from West Bournemouth to West Moors station which is within 5 minutes’ walk of Ferndown Lodge.  I hope you will be able to see her.

As I write, the Greatest Holy Leaf is on a visit to the Shrine of the Master.  It is over a year, I think, since she has been able to visit the Shrine and until now she has not seen the new Gardens, in the laying out of which Shoghi Effendi has taken such a deep interest.  The Gardens are looking lovely now and it is easy to imagine how delighted she will be.  One day during the feast of Riḍván she and the Holy Mother were able to visit Bahjí and the Garden of Riḍván.

I have quite recovered from my pleurisy now and am steadily regaining my strength.

Shoghi Effendi is still tired.  I hope he will soon be able to take a rest.  All the friends here join in loving greetings and best wishes to yourself, your son and daughter, Miss Stevenson and Effie Baker.  With warmest greetings.

Your brother in the service of the Beloved,

J. E. Esslemont

My dear precious sister in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:

I was so glad to hear from you directly and learn of your improved health and meeting with the English Bahá’ís.  I need not assure you of my ardent prayers for your happiness, good health and continued success in the service of the Cause.  I hope and pray you will be enabled by the guiding spirit of the Master not only to stimulate the interest of your friends and relations in this Cause but to make of some of them earnest and whole-hearted believers and supporters of the Faith.

Shoghi

9 May 1925 [Margaret Stevenson]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

The Greatest Holy Leaf and Shoghi Effendi have asked me to answer on their behalf your kind letters of April 2nd from Port Said and April 14th from London.

We were sorry to hear that Mrs Blundell got a chill on the steamer and was laid up for a few days after her arrival in London.  We hope that by this time she is all right again.  We had a note from her from Bournemouth.

You will be glad to hear that the Greatest Holy Leaf and the Holy Mother were able to motor to Bahjí and Riḍván one day during the Feast of Riḍván, and that yesterday the Greatest Holy Leaf motored to the Shrine of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and saw the new Gardens in which Shoghi Effendi has been taking so much interest.

Yesterday a Dutchman arrived here from Port Said, the first Dutch Bahá’í, so far as we know.  He has been a sincere and earnest truth-seeker for years.  About 9 months ago he left his home at The Hague and walked on foot through Belgium, France and Italy.  Then he felt some inward urge to go to Egypt, and travelled thither by a Dutch Cargo Steamer.  When the steamer arrived at Port Said Mahmood Effendi, one of the Port Said Bahá’ís came on board and was introduced to Mesdag (the Dutchman).  They struck up a friendship at once and after 2 days Mesdag went to live in Mahmood’s house.  There he met Martha Root, Mr Schopflocher and various other Bahá’ís, read my book and became thoroughly interested and seems now already a firm believer.  He has already, since his arrival yesterday morning, translated our 8-page folder into Dutch and we hope he will be able to do much to make the Cause known in Holland and win adherents there.

I have quite recovered from my pleurisy now and am feeling almost as vigorous as before the attack.  ‘Azízu’lláh Bahádur is now in Stuttgart.  There is as yet no improvement in his hand, but he is having skilled treatment now and

we hope it will be successful.  He seems to be having a very happy time with the German friends.

Shoghi Effendi is much in need of rest, but fairly well.  He and all the members of the Holy Family join in loving greetings and heartfelt prayers for your welfare.  We hope you will have a fine time in England and return to New Zealand refreshed and reinvigorated physically and spiritually to take up your work for the Kingdom there with new enthusiasm and devotion.  We pray that you may always be guided and strengthened by the Divine Confirmations.

With love also to Effie Baker and all the other friends,

Your brother in the service of the Beloved,

J. E. Esslemont

My precious Bahá’í sister:

I wish to assure you personally of my appreciation of your devotion to the Cause, and your earnest efforts to promote it as well as my fervent prayers for your spiritual advancement, success and happiness.  I will always remember you most tenderly in my hours of visit at the three Holy Shrines and beseech for you and the New Zealand friends the blessings of our loving and almighty Master,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

21 May 1925

Mr Bertram Dewing, 5 Aldred Road, Remuera, Auckland, New Zealand

Alláh-u-Abhá!

Dear Bahá’í brother,

Shoghi Effendi has asked me to reply to your kind letter of 11th April.  He is delighted to hear that you propose starting a Bahá’í Magazine for Australia and New Zealand and suggests as a suitable title “The Herald of the South”.  Every 19 days a letter will be sent from Haifa to Mr and Mrs Hyde Dunn giving the news of the Cause.  Owing to the restricted facilities for multiplying copies which are at present available here, I fear it will not be possible to send another copy to you, but doubtless you can arrange with Mr and Mrs Hyde Dunn to have their copy passed on to you for the magazine.  We are glad to hear that notwithstanding the absence of the Blundells and Margaret Stevenson the friends in New Zealand are remaining united and active.  We hope that when the pilgrims return the faith and enthusiasm of the believers will be greatly deepened and strengthened and that many new believers may be attracted.  I had a long letter from Effie Baker yesterday.  She is very devoted and whole-hearted and will be a valuable worker for the Cause, I think, and a great help to Father and Mother Dunn.  When she wrote, Margaret Stevenson had gone to Scotland and Mrs and Miss Blundell were in Bournemouth.  Effie Baker hopes to make a return visit to Haifa on her way back to Australia.

Shoghi Effendi assures you of his prayers on behalf of your mother, yourself and all the Australasian friends and his hopes that the proposed magazine may greatly help the spread of the Glad Tidings in Australia and New Zealand.

With warmest greetings and best wishes,

Yours sincerely in the Master’s service,

J. E. Esslemont

My dear fellow-worker,

Your charming letter truly gladdened my heart.  I will follow the development of your magazine with keen interest and assure you of my desire to help and promote its interests to the fullest possible extent.  I am enclosing two photographs of the Shrine and gardens recently laid out in the close neighbourhood of the Shrines of the Báb and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  I assure you of my love, appreciation and fervent prayers,

Shoghi

28 May 1925 [Margaret Stevenson]

Alláh-u-Abhá!

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Shoghi Effendi asks me to thank you on his behalf for your letter of 14th May.  He received the letter of Mrs Amy Thornton all right.  I remember answering it for him some weeks ago, so you can set your mind at rest on that score.

The recovery of your Bahá’í ring and stones was very remarkable.  It reminds me of a somewhat similar occurrence in Bournemouth.  One of our Bahá’í friends had her Bahá’í ring stolen, and nothing was heard or seen of it for some months.  Mr King, another of our group, has an antique shop in Bournemouth and one day his partner (a non-Bahá’í) bought a ring from a man who said it was his wife’s, but as they had become very badly off she wanted to sell it.  When Mr King saw the ring he recognised it as a Bahá’í ring and knowing that this friend had lost her ring, he sent it to me.  It turned out to be her ring and she was delighted to recover it.  The curious thing is that out of dozens of jewellers and antique shops in Bournemouth to which the ring might have been taken for sale, it should be taken to the one where there was a Bahá’í who recognised it.

I hope that before you leave Scotland you may be able to go to Aberdeen and see my home people.  They would be delighted to see you.  My father’s address is Fairford, Cults, (about 3 miles from Aberdeen, by car or train).  He is 86 years of age and rather frail.  My sister looks after him.  My two married brothers are Peter Esslemont, 21, Louisville Avenue and W. D. E., 12 Wellbrae Tce, Mannofield.  Both of their houses are near the Mannofield Car Line.

We were very glad to hear of your meetings with the friends of London and West Moors.

Many thanks for your letter to myself and the excellent snapshots enclosed.  I am glad you have fallen in love with Sister Challis and hope you will see her again before you leave.  I had a delightful letter yesterday from Miss Kilford of West Moors, whom I regard as a Bahá’í grand-daughter, as she was brought into the Cause by Sister Challis who calls me her Bahá’í father!

We hope Shoghi Effendi will get away soon for a much needed rest.  The Greatest Holy Leaf was rather seriously ill all last week, but is a good deal better again, although very feeble and frail.

I have been advised by the Drs to leave Haifa for the summer months, as my breathing has lately been troublesome and they think the moist heat during the summer here would be bad for me.  On the same day on which this decision was arrived at, I received a cordial invitation to go to a place in the Black Forest for my summer vacation.  The Drs considered this place would be ideal for me and that the sooner I got away the better, so I leave in 3 days time.  My address will be c/o Frau Victoria von Sigsfeld, Hüsli Finsterlingen, bei St Blaisien, Baden, Germany.  I hope to return to Haifa in the latter part of September to resume my work here.

Shoghi Effendi, the members of the Holy Household and the friends here join in loving greetings and best wishes,

Your brother in the service of the Beloved,

J. E. Esslemont

Mrs Schopflocher arrived here last night after a very successful tour in Russia, Persia and Iraq.

My dear co-worker:

I was very glad indeed to learn about your experiences and visit to the friends and your firm determination to labour unceasingly in the Divine Vineyard.  I will continue to pray for you that all your relatives and friends may recognise and be illumined with the resplendent light of this Divine Revelation.  Never get disheartened and trust me ever,

Your affectionate grateful and true brother in the service of the Cause,

Shoghi

10 June 1925 [Maysie Almond]

My dear Bahá’í sister,

It has meant a great pleasure to our dear Guardian, Shoghi Effendi, to receive your letter of May 14th with the sum of … which was sent enclosed.

He wishes me to ask you to convey to the members of the Adelaide Assembly his heartfelt thanks for their highly-appreciated contribution towards the fund for the help of the homeless Bahá’ís in Persia.  The sum shall be at once forwarded to Persia and the receipt will be sent to you direct from there.

Although the sum sent from Adelaide was not large yet it made every heart swell with joy and pride to see Bahá’ís from such far away land as Australia share in the hardship and misery of their fellow—brothers and sisters in such an alien country as Persia.  The contribution of the Adelaide friends affords a challenging argument to the selfish world of today and stands as a testimony of what the Bahá’í spirit has wrought in human hearts.  It was for the infusion of that self-same spirit into the cold and unsympathetic hearts of mankind that Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá have untold difficulties and gave their entire life, and now it is up to us, their little band of followers, to translate into actual deeds the lofty principles they have brought to the world.

It has been a great pleasure to us all to have met our Australian and New Zealand friends and we hope some day we shall meet more of them.

With heartfelt greetings and best wishes from the members of the Master’s family,

I am, ever yours in His service,

Soheil

My dear and most precious fellow-worker:

The prompt, spontaneous and substantial response of the Adelaide Assembly to the care of the Persian Bahá’í sufferers has touched my heart and inspired and greatly encouraged me in my work.  All-praise to the creative, all-conquering power of Bahá’u’lláh!  Your splendid contribution will I am certain exert a tremendous influence upon the people of Persia, Bahá’ís and non-Bahá’ís alike.  Persevere in your noble endeavours and victory, glorious victory will be yours in the end.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

15 June 1925 [Clara and Hyde Dunn]

My very dear Bahá’í friends,

I thank you very much indeed for your most affectionate letter of May 10th to our dear Guardian, Shoghi Effendi.  He appreciates your loving sentiments immensely and feels certain that your deep-seated and almost passionate faith and enthusiasm will leave an everlasting influence upon the spiritual reawakening of Australia.

Already the fruit of your works in the person of our beloved and devoted sister whom we were so glad to welcome in Haifa, speak eloquently of the diligent and heroic pioneer work in that vast continent, yet we await

expectantly the day when Australia and New Zealand through your selfless endeavours will establish itself as another Bahá’í stronghold and will raise with hands more puissant the glorious torch that first shed light from the little towns of a helpless Persia.

Shoghi Effendi thanks you and the friends in Australasia for the respective contributions which have been sent for the famine-stricken friends in Persia.  Though small these contributions make still firmer the belief that the spirit our beloved Master infused into the world is working in every heart and is bringing about that unity, that international brotherhood, which was the aspiration of His soul.

In assuring you again of our Guardian’s deep love and prayers and of his whole-hearted admiration and appreciation of the glorious work you have already done and are still doing in Australia, may I also extend to you the love and heartfelt greetings of every member of the family.

Our Guardian has decided to take a rest for a short time, and although he finds it hard to leave a work wherein his heart lies, physical fatigue necessitates a rest.

With all good wishes,

Yours ever in his service,

Soheil

My most precious unforgettable fellow-workers:

The sweet savours of your most welcome letter refresh my soul and ease the burden that weighs often heavily upon me.  You are always close to my heart, ever the object of my prayers and my constant companions in spirit.  I am delighted to learn of your intention to form next year a Bahá’í Convention and the first National Spiritual Assembly of Australasia.  Accept my best wishes and the assurance of my continued and ardent prayers and of my keen desire to help and serve you in any way I can.  Your services, your indefatigable efforts and exemplary achievements are graven upon my heart,

Shoghi

3 November 1925 [Hyde Dunn]

BAGDAD COURT OF APPEAL DECIDED AGAINST US REGARDING OWNERSHIP BAHAULLAH’S HOUSE URGE EVERY ASSEMBLY IN AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND COMMUNICATE BY CABLE AND LETTER WITH IRAQ HIGH COMMISSIONER ENTREATING ACTION TO ENFORCE JUSTICE REGARDING HOUSES SHOGHI

5 December 1925 [Bertram Dewing]

My dear friend and fellow-worker,

I have just heard the welcome news of the publication of the first issue of the Bahá’í Journal, recently established by the friends of Australia and New Zealand.  I rejoice in this new and notable Bahá’í enterprise, particularly as it is undertaken by my dearly-beloved and self-sacrificing brothers and sisters in a land which holds so great a promise for the future.

I have followed the progress of the activities of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand with keen interest and ever-increasing confidence, and with a deep sense of pride and gratitude.  I most heartily welcome this newly-added link in the chain of the many services, so lovingly and spontaneously rendered by the pioneers of the Cause in these lands.  I assure you of my steadfast prayers for the speedy expansion and consolidation of this youngest of all Bahá’í Magazines, and of my earnest endeavour to enable it attain a high standard worthy of the bearer of such a noble message.

It should be the object and purpose of its author and publisher to open its pages to the consideration and review of matters that are strictly Bahá’í in character as well as to the treatment of topics of a humanitarian, ethical and religious nature; that its readers, while witnessing to the liberal and broad-minded attitude of the Bahá’í Cause, may receive from it their full share of inspiration which only a clear and direct statement of the Divine Message can impart.

Go forth, on thy noble errand, O thou “Herald of the South”.  Join thy voice, however feeble, to those of thy sister-journals who, in various parts of the world, are raising with one accord the call of this new Day of God.  Persevere in thy labours, endeavour to reach every circle and every home, that the light thou bearest, may, in the fullness of time illuminate with its healing rays the uttermost corners of that distant and troubled continent.

Your well-wisher,

Shoghi

15 December 1925 [Hyde Dunn]

My dear Bahá’í brother,

Our Guardian has been very pleased to receive your letter of November 14th and to read the copy of your splendid letter of appeal to the British High Commissioner in ‘Iráq.  We trust that justice will at last win out and the houses that are so sacred and dear to every Bahá’í will be restored to its Bahá’í caretakers.

Shoghi Effendi was very sad to know that your dear wife had been unwell due to heart attacks.  He prays from all his heart that our gracious Master may bless her with full health and may restore her to active service in the glorious

field she has chosen.  The Cause in Australia is yet sorely in need of its selfless pioneer workers Father and Mother Dunn.  It is their devotion and love that has so soon affected all and every one who has come in touch with them, and it is the Spirit of the Almighty that through them has shown earnest and zealous seekers the path of guidance and of righteous life.  Their names will be engraved in the heart of all those who now and in the years to come will choose to follow the standard of Bahá’u’lláh and to fight through the might of His heavenly teachings the sore afflictions of mankind.

Miss Effie Baker is in good health and still with us.  The family are all well and send you, your family and dear friends their heartfelt love and greetings.  I am sure the friends have been much grieved in the sudden loss of our dear brother Dr Esslemont.  And yet he is now at the feet of his Beloved with no pain and with no sorrow.

With best wishes,

Yours in His service,

Soheil

My dear self-sacrificing brother:

Your past and present endeavours are indelibly engraved upon my heart.  I rejoice to learn of the expansion and consolidation of your pioneer services to the Cause, I assure you of my continued prayers for your happiness, good health and success.  I am sending you various enclosures which I trust will aid you and assist you in your work,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

I wish to assure you in person of my fervent prayers for the recovery of dear Mother Dunn to whom I am eternally grateful and whom I love so dearly.

20 January 1926 [Bahá’ís of New Zealand]

LOVING APPRECIATION

4 March 1926 [Margaret Stevenson]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Your letter to Shoghi Effendi and the enclosed one to Rúḥí with the postal order for … have been received and read with keen interest and pleasure.

We are all very happy to know that you have had such a pleasant journey back home and that you had the opportunity of delivering the message on so many occasions.  We hope and pray that the seed you have sown has fallen on fertile soil and that in time it will grow and bear abundant fruit.

We hope that now through your sustained zeal and effort new life will be infused into your small Bahá’í group, and that it will in the near future grow sufficiently in number to enable you to form an Assembly the first to

be established in that land.  We shall all pray at the Holy Threshold for your guidance and the success of your work.

The Greatest Holy Leaf and the Holy Mother remember you well, and they and the other members of the family send their loving greetings to you.  You will be interested to know that the new pilgrim house is being completed, and it will be all ready in a month’s time for the new pilgrims that will come.

We still have our dear sister Effie Baker with us, and we all love her so, she is so sweet and helpful.

We have just now two American lady friends with us, Auntie Victoria Bedikian and Mrs R. Kehler—very fine Bahá’ís they are and we are expecting some more soon.

I always remember the happy day I spent with you and Effie in London and shall look forward to the pleasure of meeting you again some day—perhaps here in Haifa or in New Zealand, who knows?

I am back at home now for the present, and am trying to help Shoghi Effendi a little in his enormous task.

He is keeping in good health I am glad to say in spite of his many activities and heavy and manifold responsibilities.

To you he sends his brotherly love and the assurance of his prayers for your welfare and happiness.

With all good wishes and loving greetings,

Your sister in His service,

Ruh-Anguiz Rabbani

My dear and precious Bahá’í sister,

I cannot but add a few words personally expressing my deep appreciation of your persistent self-sacrificing services to the Cause.  I have donated your gift towards the Fund for the Western Pilgrim House and I wish to assure you that when I visit the Holy Shrines I tenderly supplicate for you Divine Guidance and strength in your labours for our beloved Cause.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

31 March 1926 [Auckland Spiritual Assembly]

Dear Spiritual sister:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated February 18th 1926.  He well appreciates the whole-hearted contributions the friends, the world over, have made to safeguard the neighbourhood of the Shrines.  We all hope that this spirit of quick response and action will permeate all the different activities of the Cause.

Shoghi Effendi as well as the other members of the family send you, and through you, the Australian and New Zealand friends their best love and

greetings.  They all await the good news of the progress of the movement in Australasia.

With loving greetings I remain,

Yours very sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

My dear fellow-worker,

I fully appreciate the self-sacrificing efforts of the New Zealand Bahá’ís and am glad to inform them that the surroundings of the Shrines on Mt. Carmel are secure.  May the Beloved reward them a hundred fold!  Convey my love and gratitude to them all.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

3 April 1926 [Sarah Blundell]

Dear Spiritual sister:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated January 24, 1926.

He hopes that after this long vacation you have had you are ready to begin again spreading the Cause in New Zealand with even greater energy than before.  The people there seem to be broad in their outlook, receptive to any idea which helps the human faculty from decreasing its burden.

Shoghi Effendi was most chagrined to hear of the sudden death of your son and wishes me to extend to you his deepest love and sympathy.

There is no special news here except that we have removed to the new pilgrim house.  Miss Baker is well and very busy entertaining the friends and arranging the new home.

Shoghi Effendi as well as the other members of the family are well and send you their love and greetings.  They earnestly pray for your success and hope to hear, before long, the news of your many victories in the field of service to the Cause.

Please convey my loving greetings to your son and daughter.

Yours most sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

My dear fellow-worker:

I wish to express in person my deep sympathy in the heavy loss you have sustained.  May the Beloved Comforter strengthen you and sustain you in your bereavement.  The memory of your visit to the Holy Land is still fresh and vivid

in my mind and I pray and supplicate at the Holy Shrines that your labours in the Cause may yield an abundant harvest.

Your sympathising brother,

Shoghi

14 May 1926 [Auckland Spiritual Assembly]

My dear Bahá’í sister,

I thank you on behalf of Shoghi Effendi for your letter of March 8th and for the second copy of the draft that you had sent enclosed.

He has already received and cashed the first draft and has sent you the receipt for it.

He appreciates very much indeed the help of the New Zealand friends and I am sure they would all be very glad to know that the surroundings of the Holy Shrines on Mt. Carmel have already been safeguarded.  This is such a relief to Shoghi Effendi and all the friends who feared lest the approaches should fall into the hands of speculators and interested men.

With heartfelt greetings to the friends in New Zealand, I am, yours ever in His service,

Soheil Afnan

Dear fellow-worker:

I wish to reassure you in person of my continued prayers for you as well as for those friends who in the distant city of Auckland are labouring for the advancement of the Cause in New Zealand.  Please convey to them my brotherly greetings and very best wishes.  I can never forget them and they are ever near to me.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

2 August 1926 [unknown recipient]

My dear Spiritual sister:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated June 26th 1926.  We should not in the least be discouraged, if we see that the Cause is not making the movement we desire.  At the beginning of every such institution difficulties are found and discouragements seem to abound.  The people do not seem so receptive, those who approach seem not to get satisfied and soon leave the fold.  The few that remain are bothered with so many personal troubles that one could scarcely depend on them.  But all such things should add to our zeal rather than damp our energy.

The Cause has been comparatively recently established in those regions.  The things already accomplished seem marvellous to those who are at a distance and see the ensemble of the work done rather than any particular phase

of it.  We have to take courage and persist in the pursuit of our purpose.  Shoghi Effendi wishes me to assure you of his prayers.  He will always remember the Australian friends and beseech for them divine guidance and spiritual prosperity.

Yours in His Name,

Ruhi Afnan

My dear co-worker:

Your letter has served to remind me of the inevitable trials and difficulties that pioneers of this glorious Cause have encountered in various lands.  They have by their perseverance, their faith and their love surmounted these seemingly unsurmountable obstacles.  You are now treading in their footsteps and you should always remember that a powerful wise and loving Hand is guiding and sustaining you in your labours.  Be assured of my unfailing prayers for you all.

Shoghi

12 August 1926 [Sarah Blundell]

My very dear Mrs Blundell:

Shoghi Effendi has been in receipt of your interesting letter dated June 7, 1926.  It is a great pity that your health has more or less handicapped you in your service to the Cause.  We, however, hope that this weakness will soon vanish and your health and strength be fully restored.

The case of the teacher who has been in Palestine is one really to be lamented.  All such persons instead of procuring their information from the very source, when they are so near to it, they go to the Missionaries who are undoubtedly biased.  They are immediately told that the Cause is nothing more than a sect of Islam; a movement that may do immense good to the Muhammadan world, but far from ranking with Christianity or satisfying its need.  Then they refer this ignorant and innocent person to books such as Brown’s.  It is their fault for having gone to the wrong source for proper information, but once they have gone it is not their mistake to have them mislead.  We have heard of many such instances and there is absolutely no remedy except to leave them until they find the truth for themselves.  We can only pray for their guidance.

Shoghi Effendi always prays for you as well as the other Auckland friends, so that through your combined efforts the Cause may prosper there, and obtain a strong position in the life of the people.  I am not the least familiar with the social conditions there, but I am sure there is a ready field for active service.

Yours in His Name,

Ruhi Afnan

My dear fellow-worker:

I rejoice to learn that your dear sons are realizing gradually the significance of this unique and mighty Cause, and my constant and fervent prayer is that

you may witness erelong the fruition of their slow yet sure spiritual evolution.  Persevere in your labours for I entertain and cherish the brightest hopes for the future awakening of promising New Zealand.  I shall ever remember the memorable visit of the first New Zealand believers to the Holy Land.  Please assure them of my undying affection.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

12 August 1926 [Margaret Stevenson]

My dear Spiritual sister:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated June 7, 1926.  It was most interesting to go over your circular letter and read the many points of interest.  I was especially struck by the literature you have sent to Lord and Lady Allenby.  If they have at all seen them I am sure they were much impressed, for they knew the Master so well.  They were surely very astonished to see a group of Bahá’ís formed in such a distant land.

I am very ashamed of myself not to have yet answered your letter of some months ago.  It was mainly because Shoghi Effendi wrote you and acknowledged the receipt of your contribution for the pilgrim house that I have been so neglectful.  I took Miss Baker’s advice on the matter and together, we went down-town and bought a set of straw chairs.  We thought that would be most appreciated by the friends while sitting in the veranda of the new Pilgrim House.

I remember a prayer, which you wrote, has been asked by a certain friend to be read daily.  I believe sometimes the friends through their zeal and ardour do things that are not asked in the Cause.  We have only one prayer that we have to say daily.  No one in the world has the power, given to him by Bahá’u’lláh, to add another to that daily prayer.  If we should admit this the life of the friends will soon be spent in mere prayer, which is not the aim of the Cause.  The healing prayer and such ones are only for occasional use.  When the need for them arises.

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to extend to you his hearty greetings and assure you of his prayers.

Yours in His Name,

Ruhi Afnan

My dear fellow-worker:

Your letters are always a source of inspiring joy and stimulating encouragement to me.  You are destined to achieve great things for our beloved Cause and my constant prayer is that your vision may be clear, your purpose unshaken, your zeal undiminished, your hopes undimmed.  Let not obstacles and disappointments, which are inevitable, dishearten you and whenever you are faced with trials recall

our Beloved’s innumerable sufferings.  You certainly occupy a warm and abiding place in my heart.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

25 August 1926 [Evelyn Watkin]

Dear Spiritual sister:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated June 14th 1926, and also thank, through you, the Auckland friends for their kind contribution.

He wishes me to assure you and them of his earnest prayers.  He hopes that through your constant endeavour the Cause will progress rapidly in that city and make the spirit of the movement permeate throughout the land.  Though your number is still comparatively small yet through divine guidance and the Master’s ever-wakeful spirit you will soon add many to your group and make of it a power for goodness which will attract all attention.

With best wishes and kindest greetings I remain,

Yours ever sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

My dear fellow-worker:

I am touched by this expression of the loyalty and devotion of the Auckland Bahá’ís whose welfare, and spiritual advancement are the object of my earnest and constant prayer.  I shall devote it to further the interests of the Cause in ways that are dearest and nearest to my heart.  I shall supplicate the Almighty that strength and wisdom may be given you to face and overcome the obstacles and trials that you will inevitably encounter in future.  The end is glorious if we only persevere.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

25 August 1926 [Maysie Almond]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter dated July 1st and the enclosed circular letter have been duly received, and Shoghi Effendi who has read them with keen satisfaction and pleasure has charged me to convey to you his Bahá’í love and greetings with the assurance of his prayers for your welfare and success.

He is indeed very pleased to know of the harmony and love that prevails in your group and he feels certain that your efforts shall be crowned with success for you have first sought and succeeded in putting into practice the noble ideals that you proclaim, and are living the true Bahá’í life.

We hope and pray that this first circular letter will mark the beginning of a long series of the written records of the great work that shall be achieved in that land; and be sure dear sister that we shall always look forward with keen pleasure to the receipt of your own letters as well as the circular ones.  Shoghi Effendi, the Greatest Holy Leaf and the other members of the family join me in loving greetings to your dear self, your husband, and all the other friends in Adelaide.

With best wishes,

Yours very sincerely,

Ruh-Angúiz.

My Dear fellow-worker:

I wish you to know that you are always most welcome to write me whatever your heart prompts you to express and you must be assured that I will continue to follow the progress of the activities of the Adelaide friends with deep and brotherly interest.  Their circular letter is admirable in substance and in form and I trust that it will grow in size and influence and diffuse the Bahá’í Spirit from those distant regions of the earth.  Assuring you of my continued prayers for you all.

I am your true brother,

Shoghi

18 September 1926 [Bertram Dewing]

Dear Spiritual brother,

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated July 18, 1926.  He was very glad to learn of the encouraging prospects you have for your “Herald of the South”.  He hopes that it will daily progress and add to its importance in drawing the attention of the people there.  A good periodical fully representative of the spirit and teachings of the Cause is the greatest help the Movement can have in establishing itself in a country.  So though difficulties may be faced at the outset we should bear them patiently and await that the future should give us our reward.

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to extend to you his loving greetings and assure you as well as your mother and Mr Brewer of his constant prayers.  He hopes that through your combined efforts the Herald of the South will soon realize its aim and purpose.

Yours in His service,

Ruhi Afnan

My dear and precious co-worker:

Your welcome letter has cheered my heart and I look forward with confidence and joy to the harvest which you are destined to reap in the not distant future.

I shall be so pleased and grateful if you would send me regularly a copy of your Bahá’í periodical which I trust and pray will grow from strength to strength and contribute its destined share to the progress and consolidation of the Cause of God and be assured of my prayers for your happiness, welfare and spiritual advancement.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

23 October 1926 [Sarah Blundell]

Dear Spiritual sister:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated 11–9–26.  He was most gratified to learn that the Cause is becoming more and more known and appreciated by the peoples in New Zealand.  This is as important as the actual increase of the number of the friends, for it means that the principles are gradually permeating the thoughts of the people and making them more ready and receptive to the full identification of their beliefs with the precepts of the Cause.

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to assure you of his prayers for you as well as for the other friends in New Zealand.  He hopes that they will increase both in number as well as in spiritual understanding and insight.  The reports that we occasionally receive from there are most encouraging and hopeful.  It seems that the people there due to their breadth of mind and lack of traditional drawbacks show better prospects than many other places.

With deepest loving greetings,

Yours in His Name,

Ruhi Afnan

My dear co-worker:

Your letter rejoiced my heart.  I request you to persevere and renew your splendid efforts for the consolidation of the work already achieved.  I have great hopes in the ‘Herald of the South’ and trust that the Editor will be guided and strengthened in his noble undertaking.  I shall be obliged if you send me copies of any newspapers that may publish anything on the Cause as I am preparing a collection of them in the Holy Land.  Please assure the friends in New Zealand of my continued prayers at the Holy Shrines for the success of their pioneer work.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

3 November 1926 [Amy Dewing]

Dear Mrs Dewing:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated September 13th 1926.  He was most grateful to read the nice and encouraging news it contained.  He hopes that the “Herald of the South” will daily increase in importance and now that it is coming out in printed form, obtain a great number of readers.  You should try from the very start to maintain a high standard for its articles.  They should be broad in view, clear in style, and scholarly in their development of the different subjects.  In short the public should be taught to consider it as a paper fully worthwhile to read and meditate upon.  Shoghi Effendi will remember in his prayers all those who are working in this noble field of service.

Shoghi Effendi desires that you should extend his loving greetings to all the friends in Auckland.  He hopes that through their endeavours and the Master’s invisible guiding hand they will succeed to raise the standard of the Cause in that land to such heights that it will arouse the interest of all the seeking souls and in due time win their support.

The members of the Master’s family are well and send you their loving greetings.

Yours in His service,

Ruhi Afnan

My dear co-worker:

I shall pray with all my heart for the steady development and the growing influence of “The Herald of the South”.  May its voice grow in strength and power, and may its pages increasingly reflect the dynamic spirit of the Faith, and mirror forth the ever-expanding activities of the friends in Australasia, as well as in distant lands.  Persevere in your efforts, let not obstacles damp your goal and determination and rest assured that the Power of God which is reinforcing your efforts will in the end triumph and enable you to fulfil your cherished desire.

Shoghi

12 November 1926 [Clara Dunn]

Dear Mrs Dunn,

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated September 24, 1926.  He wishes me also to assure you of his prayers.  The work you and Mr Dunn have been and are doing for the Cause in those regions are appreciated and commented upon not only by Shoghi Effendi but also by the other friends.  The fruits of your work are too glorious and abundant to escape the notice of the Bahá’í world.  Miss Baker who is staying with us obtains every now and then the good news of the progress of the Cause in Australia and New

Zealand and shares them with us.  We all, therefore, look eagerly to your letters as well as to the other letters that come from those regions, as a source of hopeful signs of the progress of the Cause.

Shoghi Effendi and the other members of the family are well and send you their loving greetings.  They wish also to be remembered to Mr Dunn whose services are considered as a real asset to the Cause and most deeply appreciated.

Yours in His service,

Ruhi Afnan

My dearly-beloved co-worker,

Your letter after such a long silence was a joy, a refreshing encouragement to me.  Your beautiful shining example, your restless tireless selfless efforts, the splendid activities your spiritual children are engaged in throughout Australasia are an inspiration to me in my arduous labours.  Continually and fervently I shall pray for you and for dear Mr Dunn that you may be kept happy and safe under His Protection, that your magnificent career of exemplary Service may extend in scope, deepen in influence and achieve your heart’s desire.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

30 November 1926 [Mary Juleff]

Dear Mrs Juleff,

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated November 2, 1926.  He was most thankful and gratified for the encouraging news about the progress of the Cause there.  As it is a new country the people are more receptive to new and broad ideas.  The Cause could spread with very great rapidity if properly expounded and its tenets fully represented.  Shoghi Effendi prays for your success and hopes that new avenues of work will daily open up before you and give you the chance of serving the promulgation of the divine teachings.

Shoghi Effendi and the other members of the family are well and send you and the other friends there, their loving greetings.  The news that we obtain from the different parts of the world are most encouraging and show clearly how living and active is the spirit of the movement.

May I thank you for mentioning me in Shoghi Effendi’s letter.  I happen to be a brother rather than a sister.

Yours in His service,

Ruhi Afnan

My dear co-worker:

I always eagerly await the news of the progress of the Cause in Australia particularly from the newly-opened centres.  You must ever realize that Australia

will in time grow to become one of the most important centres in the Bahá’í world for it is rich with many and varied possibilities both material and spiritual.  Do not for a moment relax in your efforts, remember the sufferings our Beloved endured, take heart and forge ahead with renewed power and faith.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

11 January 1927 [Amy Dewing]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Mrs Dewing

Our beloved Guardian has asked me to write to you for him.  He is very pleased with your letter of December 8th, which reached him in January 10th and he is very glad to hear of your activities in New Zealand.  He will pray earnestly that your sincere efforts to make Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation widely known will bring forth much fruit and have a great result.  In the newer countries minds are more open, and the people more ready and willing to receive this great message.  With regard to the Queen of Rumania’s 3 articles, he will see that you receive them correctly.  He considers the last one in which she acknowledges Muḥammad as a true Prophet of God to have great importance for the East, especially in Persia.  This evening, personally, have had a most interesting conversation with Dr Habíb of Kirmánsháh, who is now on a visit to Shoghi Effendi with his wife and little girl.  He was telling us of the Muslims of Persia—and how during two periods of the year especially, the fanatical mullahs preach against the Bahá’ís from their pulpits—saying to the ignorant “no matter what evil things you have done during your life, or what sins you have committed, if you kill a Bahá’í who is an enemy of Islam, or even if you take his property or severely injure him all your own sins will be wiped out and forgiven for the sake of this good deed of destroying such an enemy of the Faith!!”  In this way they incite the people to deeds of violence and persecution.  He said that the Bahá’í teachings are spreading rapidly amongst the more educated classes, but it is difficult to teach the very poor and ignorant fanatical people.  Thus when they do become Believers they are very strong and faithful.

The two periods of particular danger for the Bahá’ís in Persia, are the fast month—and the period of Muḥarram, which lasts for 8 weeks.

Shoghi Effendi is very interested to hear of the engagement of your son to a Bahá’í young lady—and he prays that in future they may do a great work for the “Cause”.  He hopes so much that you will recover your full health and strength, and he will pray especially for that.  It is good to know that Esperanto is increasingly studied in New Zealand.

He will certainly pray for Miss Palter and your mother as you ask him to do—and also for your dear son and your two daughters.  Please accept all best wishes from myself and believe me,

Yours in His service,

Ethel J Rosenberg

My dear and able co-worker:

I have read the issues of the “Herald” with deep joy and thankfulness.  I will continue to pray at the Holy Shrines that the invincible power of Bahá’u’lláh may add to your present opportunities, extend the sphere of the Journal, and enable you, individually and collectively, to mirror forth the beauty and the power of this Divine Revelation.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

30 January 1927

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Miss Evelyn Watkin:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to thank you for the money order for …—which he has safely received, sent for the help of the sufferers in Persia.

He is himself sending this money to the National Assembly in Teheran, and has requested them to send him the receipt for it.  When he receives this receipt he will forward it to you, and urges you to give it to the friend who sent the money.  The Persian friends will be very much pleased at receiving this kind remembrance and help from far distant New Zealand.

With love and warm Bahá’í greetings from the holy household and the friends here, to the dear friends in Auckland.

In the Master’s service,

Sincerely yours,

Ethel J. Rosenberg

My dear co-worker:

I am deeply touched by this further evidence of the love and devotion of the New Zealand Bahá’ís and I will gladly forward the contribution of our friend to the Teheran Assembly to be sent by them to the sufferers in Jahrum.  I will ardently pray for everyone of you that the Beloved may guide your steps and lead you to glorious victory.  I urge you to communicate regularly and frequently with the Bahá’í newsletter editor through Mr Horace Holley and report to him the progress of your activities.  It is so essential and valuable.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

3 February 1927

My dear brother and sister in the blessed Cause,

Mr and Mrs Hyde Dunn,

The beloved Guardian has asked me to write to you on his behalf, and to tell you that he has received your good letter of January 3rd and he rejoices to hear of the excellent Service you have rendered in Queensland, and indeed everywhere in Australia.  He will certainly pray most earnestly for the dear Sister your wife—that she might be completely restored to health and that you both may be strengthened and spared for many years to continue your great work in that continent.  Our dear Effie Baker tells us that Perth is not only a very beautiful place but extremely healthy and we therefore hope that residence there for a few months will be of much benefit to Mrs Dunn’s health.

Effie Baker and Fugita thank you for your kind messages to them.  They both continue their devoted service here.

Personally, I myself am much interested in your having visited Rockhampton where my brother resided for 3 years after leaving Cambridge University, as master in the Grammar School, teaching science and mathematics there.  The school authorities greatly desired he should remain in Rockhampton, but my mother was in very poor health, and he had faithfully promised to return to England at the end of three years, and consequently he felt obliged to fulfil his promise to her but he always looks back with the greatest interest to his 3 years of residence in Rockhampton.

When I return to England I will enquire if he ever met Mrs Wicus though I suppose it is not very probable.  It encourages us all to hear of the blessed confirmations you have received in the path of God.  May you ever be guided and blessed in your devoted Service is my earnest hope and prayer.

Your fellow worker in the blessed service of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá,

Ethel J. Rosenberg.

My dear co-workers:

I will continue to pray from the bottom of my heart for your success, welfare and spiritual advancement.  Your names, your services, your high endeavours are graven upon my heart and your example is truly inspiring.  Your collaboration lifts a considerable part of my burden from my shoulders and your zeal and constancy hasten me in my work.  May health, strength and joy be abundantly bestowed upon you that you may continue your unsurpassed pioneer service to our beloved Cause.  You are tenderly remembered at the Holy Shrines and we all eagerly expect, nay hunger, for the welcome news of the progress of your admirable achievements.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

13 May 1927 [Margaret Stevenson]

My Dear Miss Stevenson,

I take pleasure in thanking you on behalf of our dear Guardian for your letter of April 5th.

As a far away outpost of the Bahá’í Faith in New Zealand, he is always delighted to hear from Auckland and especially yourself and your promising Assembly there.  You own a warm spot in his heart and he is looking forward to the day when through the effort of the Auckland Assembly, centers will be established in every town in New Zealand.  A firm faith and a golden heart is yours, there still remains to turn other hearts into gold.

Miss Baker is well and often thinks of you.  Assuring you of our Guardian’s prayers and the love and best wishes of the family who always remember you.

Ever yours in His service,

Soheil Afnan

My dear and precious co-worker:

You should exercise your judgement and tact in delivering the message.  You should make an effort to understand the character and mind of the seeker before you speak to him on the Cause.  I will pray that you may be inspired and guided to follow the path of moderation and may become an exemplary herald of His message in that far-away land.

Your well-wisher,

Shoghi

18 August 1927 [Clara and Hyde Dunn]

Dear friends,

I acknowledge with great pleasure your short letter to our dear Guardian.

With regard to the plan of some friends to arrange your visit to Haifa and your question in that respect from Shoghi Effendi, he wishes me to inform you that whatever the donors decide is acceptable to him.  He would thus wish the donors to express their own free desire.

I take this opportunity to assure you again of our Guardian’s deep and growing admiration for your noble work in Australia and the brilliant results that have already appeared.

With all good wishes and much love, ever yours in His service,

Soheil Afnan

My dear and precious co-workers:

Your last two letters dated June 5, 26 have been carefully read, and I hasten to inform you that regarding Stenstrand, he is an Azali and the friends should shun and avoid him and ignore him altogether.  He is after mischief and dissension.  Pending the formation of a National Assembly in Australia and New Zealand the friends should

keep in close touch with you and seek your advice and your opinion for you are their guiding star, their loving parents.  I trust you will write to me whenever you feel inclined.  I shall eagerly await your news.  The letter you drafted and enclosed is excellent and you have thereby rendered a distinct service to the Cause.  As to the sum collected by the friends, I feel I should leave it entirely to the discretion of the donors.  After prayerful meditation and consultation whatever they decide I welcome and endorse.  I will pray for their guidance, for your happiness, good-health and success,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

28 February 1928 [Clara and Hyde Dunn]

Mr and Mrs Hyde Dunn

My Dear Bahá’í friends,

I am instructed by our dear Guardian to thank you for your welcome letter of January 26th.

It has been a source of great pleasure to him to hear from such devoted fellow-workers again and to receive that note of joyful service, of unceasing activity and radiant happiness that all your communications must needs contain.  You cannot imagine what a comfort it is to him to be assured of your sustained efforts and pioneer work in that vast continent, especially as you seem to have already planned beyond its limits and turned your gaze to promising fields in the Islands beyond.  It seems an unforeseen and divine bestowal that your business affords such a splendid chance to carry the torch constantly into new lands, and our Guardian realises with lively satisfaction that you have made good of every opportunity.

Of course your journeyings through the country and your travels to Norfolk Islands and the South Seas, will not deprive, Shoghi Effendi hopes, the already established Assemblies of your parental care and guidance for they surely still need it.  And with new Assemblies forming in the various centres, with an increase of understanding and study of the teachings and mission of the Faith among the individual friends, and with the fruits of sober enthusiasm and mature thought, our Guardian hopes and prays, that you will be strengthened and spared to help establish the greatest Bahá’í National Assembly in the Southern Hemisphere.

With much love from the family to you both and the friends you meet.

Sincerely in His service,

Soheil Afnan

My very dear and precious co-workers:

Your letters and the joyful news they impart are a source of abiding joy, strength, and consolation to me in my arduous task.  I admire the spirit of faith

and constancy that animates you in your glorious pioneer work in that far-away land.  You will I am sure be abundantly and increasingly blessed by our Beloved.  Your names will for ever be remembered with gratitude, admiration and pride.  Your achievements the rising Bahá’í generation will extol and magnify.  You occupy most certainly an abiding place in the Greatest Holy Leaf’s heart and my own, and we shall both continue to supplicate for you and your dear co-workers the Master’s imperishable blessings.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

30 January 1929 [Clara and Hyde Dunn]

Mr and Mrs Dunn

My Dear Friends,

I am directed by the Guardian to thank you for your good and warming letter of January 2nd.

It always gives him immeasurable pleasure and hopefulness to hear from you as his precious fellow-workers in the pioneer fields of Australia and he is delighted to receive your good news about the friends in Australasia for all of whom, Shoghi Effendi has a very warm spot in his heart.  He sincerely trusts that their numbers will be constantly increasing and that soon promising and progressive Bahá’í centres will be established in all the large cities and towns and that Australia will be able to become a leading torch-bearer for the spiritual regeneration of man and for the establishment of universal brotherhood in the world.

Permit me to assure you as much as ever of Shoghi Effendi’s affections and prayers for you both.

Sincerely yours in His service,

Soheil Afnan

My dear co-workers,

I truly admire your unwavering constancy and unflinching determination to carry on the sacred work entrusted to your charge.  I will continue to pray for your good health, happiness and success.  You both occupy a warm and abiding place in my heart.  You are often in my thoughts and I trust that the Beloved may graciously assist you to bring to a glorious and successful conclusion your unexcelled and historic mission on earth.  Regarding Effie, I would leave it to your own discretion and to her own desire and wish.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

8 April 1929 [Hyde Dunn]

WIRE FOLLOWING SECRETARY GENERAL LEAGUE OF NATIONS GENEVA.  BAHAIS OF AUSTRALIA AND TASMANIA UNITE IN EXPRESSING PROFOUND THANKFULNESS FOR MEMORABLE DECISION PRONOUNCED BY LEAGUE REGARDING BAHAULLAH’S HOLY HABITATION IN BAGDAD

8 April 1929 [Margaret Stevenson]

WIRE FOLLOWING SECRETARY GENERAL LEAGUE OF NATIONS GENEVA NEW ZEALAND BAHAIS PROMPTED TO OFFER THEIR SHARE OF GRATITUDE FOR HIGH PRINCIPLE OF JUSTICE UPHELD BY LEAGUES REPRESENTATIVES TOUCHING OUR HOLY SITE IN BAGDAD

25 May 1929 [Clara and Hyde Dunn]

Mr and Mrs Dunn

My Dear Bahá’í Friends,

I am directed by the Guardian to thank you so much for your welcome letter of April 20th.

It gives him immense pleasure to learn of your good health and of the happy and hopeful work that is being done in Australia as a result of your eager efforts and inspiring cooperation with the rest of the friends.  Though so far away across the seas, the friends in Australia have a warm place in Shoghi Effendi’s heart, and great would be his joy and satisfaction to feel that miles and miles away the seeds that were once sown in Persia are growing with all the glory of a full bloom.  But the thing he would surely pray for, that you may both live to see with human eyes the fruits of your selfless endeavours, your courage, your self-sacrifice, and above all your unflinching faith even at the darkest moments.

Do please assure your friends and fellow-workers of the Guardian’s greetings and love and of his wish that they may grow daily in their understanding of the Cause and become worthy servants of the Lord.

It is “Alláh-u-Abhá” which is repeated 95 times.

With the assurance of his affection and prayers for you all, sincerely yours,

Soheil Afnan

My dear and precious co-workers:

I wish to assure you in person of my keen appreciation of your steadfast and splendid services to the Cause.  I will continue to pray for both of you from the depths of my heart, that the Beloved may strengthen you in your pioneer work for our beloved Faith, and enable you to render memorable services to the sacred threshold.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

14 June 1929 [Perth Bahá’ís]

My Dear Friends,

I am directed by the Guardian to thank you for your letter of May 19th written on your behalf by your secretary.

Shoghi Effendi has been deeply touched by the generous and unsolicited help which his friends across the oceans have offered for the victims of the earthquake in Khurásán.

Whether the sum is large or small, Shoghi Effendi accepts your contribution with a deep realisation of the all-transforming spirit of Bahá’u’lláh, and of that true sense of love and fellowship which it has instilled in your hearts.  At a time when the world seems to be drifting so far apart, is it not a ray of infinite hope, a message of glad tidings, that the Bahá’í Faith does succeed to carry and uphold the sacred principles of a united humanity?  I am sure you would be glad to know that according to reports so far received although the damages caused by the earthquake were large, the loss of human life has not been so large and the Bahá’ís have especially been spared.

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to inform you that he will send you later the receipt from the Persian National Assembly for your deeply appreciated contribution.

With warm regards and greetings, yours in His service,

Soheil Afnan

With the assurance of my keen appreciation of your unsparing efforts for the spread of our beloved Cause, and of my continued prayers for your spiritual advancement, your true brother,

Shoghi

28 December 1929

Joseph J. Dobbins

My Dear Friend,

I am directed by Shoghi Effendi to thank you for your letter of October 20th.

He was very pleased to hear from you and learn of your growing interest in the Bahá’í Faith.  He welcomes you with all his heart as a brother and a fellow-worker in our common service to our fellow-men and he wishes me to assure you of his ardent prayers for you.

There is no doubt that God in his infinite goodness has favoured us each with an individual faculty which, if we can strengthen, will enable us to make our lives fruitful and successful; and it is through prayers and successive efforts that we must study ourselves and find out what we are most suited for.

With renewed assurance of Shoghi Effendi’s affection and prayers and of his pleasure to hear from you,

Sincerely yours,

Soheil Afnan

With the assurance of my best wishes and prayers for you and for your dear co-workers during my visits to the Shrine of Bahá’u’lláh, your true brother,

Shoghi

18 March 1930

Dear Father and Mother Dunn,

I am directed by Shoghi Effendi to thank you so much for your kind letter of February 19th sent through our dear friend Mr Bertram Dewing.

He was pleased to hear from you and he is grateful for your loving solicitude in connection with his recent illness.  He is happily quite well now and again busy at his work, as is the Greatest Holy Leaf who was also seriously unwell lately but who although still very weak, is feeling much better.

It gave Shoghi Effendi great pleasure to know that the work in Australia is progressing and that more and more new people join to share our faith and our labours.  He prays earnestly that before long the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand may contribute increasingly in service to the Bahá’í Faith and may establish progressive and enthusiastic centres throughout the whole Continent.  We might be very far away from you, but often if not always friends both in the East and West think or talk and love to meet their fellow-workers across the seas and needless to say they never forget the glorious share you can claim.

Mr Dewing is still with us and it is such a pleasure to have him.  Let us hope some day you too will come.

With the assurances of Shoghi Effendi’s affection and prayers and with loving greetings to the friends there.

Sincerely yours,

Soheil Afnan

My dear co-workers,

A letter from you always imparts joy and strength to my heart.  You are the heroic and glorious pioneers of His Cause in this Day.  Your name, countless lips shall utter with veneration and praise in the days to come.  Your memory is immortal.  Your services are graven upon my heart.  I will continue to pray for both of you as well as for your dear, spiritual children throughout Australasia.  Be happy always.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

14 August 1930 [Hyde Dunn]

Dear Mr Dunn:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated June 22nd 1930.  Concerning the condition of the Cause in Australia, the constant endeavour of the friends should be to spread the Cause.  Once new members begin to come in, they will inspire the friends with more courage and hope and make them forget their petty differences.  Shoghi Effendi will sincerely pray for you and hopes that God will guide you to ultimate success.

Concerning the different translations of the words.  It is surely the original text that should never be changed.  The translations will continue to vary as more and better translations are made.  Shoghi Effendi does not consider even his own translations as final, how much more translations made in the early days of the Cause in the West when no competent translators existed.

Concerning the two prayers in the last edition of the prayer book.  You had better write about it to the National Assembly in America.  Quite a number of objections were already made and I am sure they will be glad to receive any you have for corrections to be made to future editions.

Most of the prayers and Tablets published in the West have to be revised by some board of translators.  But when that will be, no one knows.  Meanwhile the friends have to be satisfied with what they can obtain.

Concerning the New History Society.  Though it is run by some Bahá’ís, yet the NSA has announced—and Shoghi Effendi has approved their action—that they have no relation with the Cause.  Because the Society persists in its refusal to abide by the decisions of the NSA it does not deserve the help of the Bahá’ís.  It is not the first case of Bahá’ís going at a tangent from the prescribed teachings of the Master.  Our attitude should be impartiality rather than hostility.  Shoghi Effendi hopes and prays that those who are responsible for this society will be sorry for their attitude and will come back under the banner of the movement.

In closing may I assure you and Mrs Dunn of Shoghi Effendi’s loving greetings.  He will remember you and all the other Australian friends in his prayers and ask for you divine guidance and conformation.

Yours ever sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

With the assurance of my fervent and continued prayers for your good-health, your happiness, your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

18 May 1931 [Amy Dewing]

My dear Mrs Dewing,

I thank you on behalf of the Guardian for your letter of April 16th.

He was very glad to learn that you are now on your way to England by way of America and he hopes that you will find the occasion and the means of visiting the friends and making permanent connections with them.  Bertram will of course be delighted to meet you and we hope he is successful in his work there.

I suppose you have all the London addresses as the friends there would be delighted to meet you.  Of course if you do decide to visit Haifa on your way back, Shoghi Effendi wishes me to assure you of a most hearty welcome.

With his loving greetings to you all and to the young couple in England and with much love from all here,

Sincerely yours,

Soheil Afnan

My dear co-worker:

I was so pleased to hear from you and of your plans.  I do hope you will be able to visit the Holy Land where you would be most welcome in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s house.  I will pray for the success of your efforts from the depths of my heart when I visit the Holy Shrines.  May the Beloved enable you to render distinguished services to His Cause, and remove every obstacle from your path.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

17 June 1931 [Hyde Dunn]

Dear Mr Dunn,

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated May 17th 1931.  He was naturally very glad to hear that Mrs Dunn is planning to come to Haifa, for he is always desirous to meet those self sacrificing souls who leave their homes, and travel in a foreign country merely to spread the message and do pioneer work.  They are the seed sowers who experience only the drudgery.  Those who follow are the easy-going reapers who are constantly encouraged by the sight of the increasing produce.  Anyhow Shoghi Effendi is only too glad to extend to Mrs Dunn a hearty welcome, but would urge her to so plan her trip as to be here next spring—some time in March or April.

Shoghi Effendi was very sad to hear that the progress of the Cause in Australia is far from what it should have been.  He, however, hopes that the condition will soon change.  When the friends are not kept busy with constant service, and do not find success to keep up their spirit, they naturally become depressed and start to criticise each other.  The only remedy is constructive work,

that is teaching.  Let them concentrate upon that and they will soon forget their misunderstandings, and find themselves co-operating in the same pursuit.

Please convey to all of them Shoghi Effendi’s loving greetings and assure them of his prayers.  He sincerely hopes that they will do their utmost in spreading the Cause in that land.  Please remember him also to Mrs Dunn and extend to her a hearty welcome.

Yours ever sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

My dear and precious co-worker,

I was so pleased to hear from you, particularly as you express the wish of Mrs Dunn to visit the Holy Land.  She is most welcome, as her service as well as yours, have endeared you both to me as well as to the believers of East and West.  The record of your glorious work is imperishable.  May the Beloved protect, sustain, cheer and bless you always.

Shoghi

17 September 1931 [Clara Dunn]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge on his behalf the receipt of your welcome letter dated August 1, 1931 and to extend to you his loving appreciation of your precious services to the Cause.

He was very pleased to learn that you were in good health and that you were serving the Faith with such enthusiasm and zeal and he hopes that you will be able to win many hearts to the Cause.  Regarding your coming visit to the Holy Shrines, Shoghi Effendi wishes you to come in whichever month you find suitable and he fervently hopes that through this pilgrimage you will receive Bahá’u’lláh’s divine confirmations and will be strengthened both in body and mind.

With the renewed assurance of our Guardian’s best wishes and of his continued prayers for your spiritual advancement.

Yours sincerely,

H. Rabbani

My dear and precious co-worker:

I am looking forward very eagerly to your projected pilgrimage.  You certainly deserve so great a bounty after such a splendid record of unstinting and exemplary service to the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh!  I wish only Mr Dunn, your distinguished and beloved husband and collaborator, could have accompanied you!  You are both so dear and near to me, and the memory of your accomplishments, and above all the consciousness of the spirit that animates you, is a source of inspiration to me in my work.

May the Beloved cheer your hearts, sustain your efforts and fulfil your hearts’ desire,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

20 September 1931 [Joseph Dobbins]

Dear Bahá’í co-worker,

Shoghi Effendi was much pleased to receive your letter of August 4th, 1931 which he read with deep interest and he charged me to acknowledge its receipt on his behalf and to extend to you his warmest congratulations for having been elected Chairman of the Adelaide Assembly.

The responsibilities which you have to assume and the delicate task which you have to carry out are both tremendous.  The friends have put their confidence in you and it is your duty to watch and serve the interests of the Faith with the greatest care and wisdom.

Regarding the copy of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablet enclosed in your letter, Shoghi Effendi doubts very much its authenticity and he wishes you to prevent its circulation among the believers, He feels that its perusal will do more harm than good as the answers given by the Master to the inquirer have been misunderstood and misinterpreted.

The Guardian has already received a copy of the “Herald of the South” and he was greatly rejoiced to witness the perseverance which the editors have displayed in the way of its publication, and he hopes that the number of the contributors will increase and that through their efforts the Cause will develop rapidly in Australia.

With Shoghi Effendi’s fervent prayers for your spiritual advancement and progress.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear co-worker:

“The Herald of the South” is the most effective instrument as yet devised for the spread of the Cause in that land.  I cherish for it the brightest hopes.  The spirit of Bahá’u’lláh will assuredly inspire its promoters and reinforce their efforts.  May it continue to prosper and increasingly reflect the spirit that animates His Faith.

With the assurance of my continued prayers for the success of your unsparing efforts for the spread and consolidation of our beloved Cause,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

26 November 1931

Mrs Keith Ransom-Kehler,

c/o Mr H. Dunn, P. O. Box 3116, Sydney, New South Wales.

Dear Mrs Ransom-Kehler:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated October 22nd, 1931 written from Melbourne.  He sincerely hopes that this trip around the world you are taking will bear wonderful fruits and many seeking souls be attracted to the Faith.  The Master often repeats in His Tablets that the teachers should like the morning breeze pass over the different cities and bring new life and energy to its people.  The friends often need a reawakening and this is one of the tasks to be fulfilled by the travelling teachers.  This is the greatest work Miss Root is doing and the kind of service she is rendering to the Cause.

Besides encouraging the friends in the pursuit of their work Shoghi Effendi hopes that you are attracting many souls through your public speeches.  You are very well fitted for that kind of work and in the East especially India and Burma there is much need for it.  We constantly hear the call for teachers from India.  The people are opening their eyes to the need for basic reforms and are ready to give an attentive ear to the one who has really something to say.  This is especially true of those who are educated and have come in contact with the West in more than a superficial way.

Shoghi Effendi is sure that the friends in India and Burma will avail themselves of the chance presented and obtain for you nice openings into important and cultural circles.

In his moments of prayer he will remember you and ask God to guide you in the realization of your hopes.

Yours ever sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

With the assurance of my deep sense of abiding appreciation of your magnificent services to the Cause, and of my continued and fervent prayers for your welfare, happiness and spiritual advancement,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

17 December 1931 [Amy Dewing]

Dear Mrs Dewing:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated December 2nd 1931.  He is very sorry that you cannot on your way to New Zealand, break your journey and come over for a short visit to Haifa.  But these are such difficult days that we should not be astonished and discouraged if our plans fail.

He hopes however that on your way you will meet the friends, especially those in Port Said, for we have no centers in Malta and Colombo.

He was also very sorry to hear that Bertram has to give up his studies and return home.  Shoghi Effendi hopes that this period he spent in America would be itself an education that would help him in his work in serving the Cause.  His activities with the young people there should have made him very experienced and have deepened his understanding of the Faith.

I believe Mrs Dunn is planning to come this spring for a visit to Haifa.  Perhaps you will meet her before she starts.  Shoghi Effendi is eagerly waiting to see this noble soul who introduced the Cause into Australia and has been so self-sacrificing in her services.

Shoghi Effendi hopes that on returning home you will start again to serve the Cause and attract new souls.  The world is in great distress and its only salvation is in the spirit and teachings of the Blessed Beauty.  Let us not, we who are the trustees of that divine message, fail in accomplishing our task and fulfilling our purpose.

Assuring you of Shoghi Effendi’s best wishes I remain,

Yours ever sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

Dear and valued co-worker:

I am wiring the friends in Port-Said to meet you on your arrival and I very much regret your inability to come to Haifa and visit the Holy Shrines.  I will continue to pray for you, for your son-in-law, and for your dear and promising son, for whose future work in the Cause I cherish the brightest hopes.  I will also remember in my prayers the friends in far-away Australia and New Zealand and will supplicate for them all the Master’s richest blessings and unfailing guidance.

Shoghi

4 January 1932 [Adelaide Spiritual Assembly]

CABLE BAHAI CENTRES AUSTRALASIA MAIL HAIFA GROUP PHOTOGRAPHS FOR BAHAI WORLD

27 January 1932 [Keith Ransom-Kehler]

Dear Keith:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated December 27th 1931 written from Sydney and to express his deep appreciation for the wonderful work you are doing.  So many of the friends have written of your trip and told us how very successful you have been.  Your first concern should be not only to make the teachings broadcast, but also to get individual persons accept the message and actually enter the ranks of the believers.  Both of these are important.  Public talks make the precepts of the Cause permeate the life

of the people at large, and individual contact will induce them to come and help carry the work further.

Concerning the economic teachings of the Cause:  Mr Lunt and Mr Holley have each contributed a long and interesting article on that subject for the coming issue of the “Bahá’í World” which will be published in few months.  I am sure you will find much material in them.  Even though the Cause has much on the economic life of society, such as progressive income tax, a high death duty and consultation in industry between capital and labour; yet what it has on the international question is far more important and interesting, especially in the light of present world problems.

Shoghi Effendi has, after giving much thought to the words of Bahá’u’lláh and the Master concerning World Unity, written a general letter to the Western friends explaining how the Unity of Mankind is not merely a spirit of brotherhood but an organic unity towards which the forces now operating in the world are leading us.  In that letter you will find much material for your talks.  It is being published in America in the form of a pamphlet.

Shoghi Effendi was very glad to hear of your work with the Maoris.  He sincerely hopes that some real good will be achieved.  He has been encouraging the New Zealand friends to translate Dr Esslemont’s book into their language.  May be when that will be done some real work will be started.

Shoghi Effendi hopes that in India you will render a great service to the friends.  They are rather quiet and they need a good stimulus.

Assuring you of his best wishes and prayers and hoping to see you soon I remain,

Yours sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

Dear and precious co-worker:

Your magnificent services have brought immeasurable joy to my heart.  You have achieved a work that will endure, ennoble and enrich the annals of God’s immortal Faith.  The seeds you have sown in the Far East, which you are now sowing in India and which you will sow in the near future in Europe will germinate and testify to the potency of your Faith, the power of your eloquence, the brilliance of your mind and the range and depth of your thought.  I would urge you to visit, if convenient and practicable, the Bahá’ís of Burma.  A delay of two or three weeks, as a result of a visit to Rangoon and Mandalay, where the Bahá’ís would be only too glad to meet and hear you, would be thoroughly justified.  You might be able to arrange it on your arrival at Calcutta after consultation with

the friends.  I am devising a plan for a fruitful and vital teaching work on your part in Egypt and Europe.  May the Beloved bless and sustain your mighty efforts.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

2 March 1932 [Annie Miller]

Dear Mrs Miller

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated February 4th 1932.  Even though your number is small yet the photograph would show that the spirit has been carried to a country so distant from the place of its origination.  These centers may seem unimportant but in reality will become focal-points from which the light of guidance will radiate.

Present troubles and difficulties and the dissatisfaction that is prevailing throughout the world, are bound ultimately to awaken man, stir him spiritually, and turn his steps God-ward.  At that juncture the importance of these centers will be appreciated.  Now, people come one by one, but then it will be in scores and large groups.  You should never be disappointed but exert all your efforts in spreading the Cause and establishing properly elected Assemblies.

In closing may I assure you and the members of your family as well as the other friends there, of Shoghi Effendi’s prayers and best wishes.

Yours sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

With the assurance of my deepest appreciation of your devoted services to the Cause, and of my fervent and loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

8 March 1932 [Annie Miller]

Dear Mrs Miller:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated February 14th, 1932.  He does appreciate the difficulty of having a group photograph at a short notice, and what you have succeeded to send is undoubtedly the best that could be done under the circumstances.  Perhaps you could keep in mind and have a really good one for the next issue of the “Bahá’í World” which will appear in two years.  By then you would, we hope, have a larger number of Bahá’ís in Victoria Park.

Shoghi Effendi was very glad to learn that you met Mrs Dewing on her way from Haifa.  Even though their stay with us was very short, we did enjoy it tremendously.  We sincerely hope that her experiences visiting the different

Assemblies in her trip around the world will be an asset to the work in Australia and New Zealand.  This is especially true of her son who stayed for a while in America and saw how their young people work in serving the Cause.

In closing may I extend to you Shoghi Effendi’s greetings and assure you of his prayers and best wishes.

Yours ever sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

May the Almighty bestow upon you and your devoted co-workers His richest blessings, enable you to widen the range of your activities, consolidate the basis of your work and fulfil your heart’s cherished desire.  I will continue to pray for you all from the depths of my heart,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

14 March 1932 [Margaret Stevenson]

INFORM BERTRAM DEWING ENSURE PROMPT TRANSLATION ESSLEMONT’S BOOK MAORI

17 March 1932 [Annie Miller]

Dear Mrs Miller:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated February 20th 1932.  He was very glad to know that Mr Dewing could land and visit you for few hours, and tell you some of his experiences both here in Haifa and also during his stay in America.  Shoghi Effendi has great hopes in what he will do for the Cause for his heart and soul are in the work.

It should have been surely a delightful gathering with him and Mr and Mrs Dunn.  We wish we had people, truly Bahá’í in spirit, who would travel from one city to another, meet the friends, cheer their hearts and stimulate them to further activity.  They would be rendering such a service, even though they make no speeches and actually teach no one, for the keeping up of the hopefulness and spirit of the friends is an important enough job.

Perhaps by the time you receive this letter Mrs Dunn would be in Haifa or on the way.  It is surely a pity that Mr Dunn also could not take the trip.  Shoghi Effendi would have enjoyed meeting both of these souls who have brought the message to Australia.

Assuring you and the members of your family of Shoghi Effendi’s prayers and best wishes, I remain,

Yours ever sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

May the Almighty sustain you in your arduous task, assist you to surmount the many obstacles that hinder the progress of your work, and enable you to fulfil your heart’s cherished desire.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

The cards have just arrived in perfect condition, and I wish to assure you of my deepest appreciation of your splendid gift, Shoghi

18 April 1932

Dear Mr Hyde Dunn,

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter and to extend to you his loving greetings and best wishes.  Mrs Dunn is now with us staying in the Pilgrim House.  Shoghi Effendi sincerely wishes that you were here with us enjoying the privilege of visiting the blessed Shrines with Mrs Dunn.  Perhaps some time in the future this will come to pass for it is sure that this is a longing you have always had and deeply cherished.

Mrs Ransom-Kehler was unable to join Mrs Dunn in Bombay and come together to Haifa.  The plans they made for her in India were more than she could complete during the short period she had allotted to that vast country and Shoghi Effendi advised her to prolong her stay by at least a month.  We sincerely hope she has succeeded to achieve there as much as in some of the principal cities in Australia.  She is surely a very competent teacher of the Cause, familiar with its spirit and teachings and quite competent to attract others.

Shoghi Effendi hopes that in Australia the friends will try to keep burning the lamp she kindled.  They needed someone to come and stimulate them a little and she surely achieved that task, but it is very necessary that this enthusiasm should not be left to subside and cool down.  You, who are their father should see to it.  In his moments of prayer and meditation at the Shrines Shoghi Effendi will think of you and ask God to guide and assist you—you as well as the other friends in Australia.  Please extend his loving greetings to all of them.

Yours ever sincerely

Ruhi Afnan

Dear and gracious co-worker,

It was such a pleasure to hear from you and to learn from Mrs Dunn the news of your continued and self-sacrificing endeavours for our beloved Cause.  How greatly we miss you in these days when our dearly beloved sister, your precious wife and distinguished collaborator is with us in the vicinity of the Holy Shrines.  I have urged her to stress in her letters to you the necessity of your taking the utmost care of yourself, that your precious health may not suffer from the constant strain which your strenuous and high endeavours involve.  You are most welcome to visit the Holy Land as soon as you find it feasible, for we all long

to meet you face to face and congratulate you in person upon the magnificent services you have rendered to the Cause.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

19 April 1932 [Adelaide Spiritual Assembly]

Mr J. J. Dobbins

Dear Bahá’í friend:

Shoghi Effendi wishes to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated March 19th 1932, written on behalf of the Spiritual Assembly of Adelaide, regarding the publication of the Herald of the South.  Mr B. Dewing wrote in person to Shoghi Effendi and proposed to have it published for sometime in Montreal in Canada as a sign of gratitude for the help Mrs Maxwell is going to render to it financially.  In answer to him Shoghi directed me to write and stress the importance of having it published in Australia.  That periodical belongs to that continent and should remain there as the organ of the friends residing in those regions.  Should Mrs Maxwell or any other person desire to support it, they should not condition their assistance upon such a transfer.  And Shoghi Effendi does not believe that they do expect such a thing for it is contrary to the interests of the Cause.  If they have the means they would support it even though it be primarily an Australian activity.  The sphere of our benevolence should not be limited by geographical boundaries.

As to whether the Herald of the South should be published in Australia or New Zealand, Shoghi Effendi would prefer to have this question settled by the friends there.  He naturally trusts that in whichever of the two countries it should be published the friends of both Australia and New Zealand would participate in the work and consider it as the organ of all those groups.  They should be able to co-operate and have on the committee members from both countries.  Mr Dewing has the work very near to his heart and Shoghi Effendi hopes he will play an important part in its publication.  It is always with co-operation and consultation that the interests of the Cause can be furthered.

Please convey Shoghi Effendi’s greetings to all the friends.  He will pray for them all and ask God to guide them in their services to His Faith.

Yours ever sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

May the Beloved guide and bless your efforts and enable you, in collaboration with your valued co-workers, to widen the scope of your activities, and consolidate the foundations of the Bahá’í institutions in that remote corner of the world.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

8 June 1932 [Hyde Dunn, Perth, WA.]

DUNN ARRIVING JUNE 28 ORSOVA

25 June 1932 [Hyde Dunn]

Dear Bahá’í Friend,

Shoghi Effendi has received your kind letter of May 29th 1932 and he has directed me to extend to you his loving appreciation of your valuable services to the Cause.

Concerning the Bahá’í meetings Shoghi Effendi feels that they should be devoted to the discussion and full study of the Bahá’í teachings and problems and that subjects which have no direct bearing to the Cause should be avoided as they do not serve to deepen our knowledge of the Cause.  Special emphasis, however, should be laid upon the relations of the Bahá’í principles and teachings to our present world problems with the purpose of pointing out the Bahá’í solution to the social, economic, political and religious evils of the time.

In regard to the five steps that should be taken for the discussion and solution of all matters pertaining to the Faith, the Guardian wishes me to assure you that he has already discussed about them with Mrs Dunn during her last visit to Haifa—Mrs Dunn’s pilgrimage has been a source of inspiration to all the friends here and Shoghi Effendi is confident that when she will come back home her experiences will serve to quicken the hearts and awaken the zeal of our Australian believers.

With the Guardian’s best wishes for yourself and for the rest of the friends in Sydney.

Yours sincerely,

H. Rabbani

Dear and gracious co-worker,

I hope and pray that you may in the not distant future undertake the longed for pilgrimage to the Holy Land, for I am eager to meet you face to face and to visit with you the Holy Shrines.  Whatever the future may have in store for us, we should persevere under all circumstances and never allow any form of depression to cloud our vision of the future glory of the Cause of God.  May the Almighty sustain and bless your high and self sacrificing endeavours.

Your true and affectionate brother,

Shoghi

10 July 1932 [Sydney Spiritual Assembly]

My Dear spiritual sister,

It was with a deep sense of joy and appreciation that Shoghi Effendi received your communication of May 20th, 1932 and he has charged me to extend to you his heartfelt thanks.

The new list of the Sydney Bahá’ís greatly rejoiced his heart as it clearly showed the progress of the Cause in Australia and the zeal and loyalty of the believers there.  He sincerely hopes that, as a result of Mrs Keith’s travels, the friends will unitedly strive to spread the Message and will not let any obstacle, of whatever nature, hinder their onward march.  The devotion and the sincerity with which our Australian brethren have thus far served the Cause is highly praiseworthy, and the Guardian trusts that this same spirit will continue to animate all their spiritual activities.

Shoghi Effendi cherishes the brightest hopes for the future of the Cause in Sydney and he fervently hopes that the newly elected members of your Spiritual Assembly will prove equal to their task by striving with all the means at their disposal to teach the Cause both through publicity and through public lectures, to create as much as they can that spirit of unity and cooperation among the believers without which no progress is possible.  Now that the friends are provided with a Reading Room they should all avail themselves of this opportunity and try to deepen their knowledge of the Cause and extend the field of their correspondence to all the important Bahá’í centres both in the East and the West.

In closing may I ask you to extend to all our Sydney Bahá’ís and especially to Mrs and Mr Bolton, who have newly embraced the Cause, the loving greetings of the Guardian.  In his moments of meditation and prayer he will remember them all and ask the Almighty to bless their unceasing efforts for the greater spread of His Message.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

With the assurance of my fervent prayers for the extension and consolidation of your valued activities in the service of our beloved Cause,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

14 July 1932 [Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand]

GREATEST HOLY LEAF ASCENDED ABHA KINGDOM OUR GRIEF IMMENSE OUR LOSS IRREPARABLE INFORM LOCAL ASSEMBLIES COMMEMORATE BEFITTINGLY SACRED EXPERIENCE SO RICH SO SUBLIME SO EVENTFUL A LIFE MAGNITUDE OF OUR SORROW DEMANDS COMPLETE SUSPENSION

FOR 9 MONTHS THROUGHOUT BAHAI WORLD EVERY FORM RELIGIOUS FESTIVITY HER MORTAL REMAINS LAID VICINITY HOLY SHRINES

27 July 1932 [Auckland Spiritual Assembly]

DEEPEST LOVING APPRECIATION

2 August 1932

Mrs Mariette Bolton, Box 1042, Wellington, New Zealand

Dear Mrs Bolton,

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated April 5th 1932.

He was very glad to learn that Mr Bolton and yourself have found in the spirit and teachings of Bahá’u’lláh your highest hopes and ideals.  He hopes that you will become more and more deeply rooted in the Faith as you pursue your studies and become thoroughly familiar with the literature of the Cause.  The message of Bahá’u’lláh like the revelation of previous prophets of God—and perhaps even more—is a store-house of wisdom and learning.  The deeper we go in them, the more marvellous we find its treasures to be.

After such a deep study Shoghi Effendi trusts you will follow the example of your spiritual parents Mr and Mrs Dunn and Mrs Ransom-Kehler, and become active teachers of the Faith.  It is a sacred duty you bear towards your fellow-men that, should you come to the source of a truth, you should inform your friends and give them also the chance of realizing their highest hopes and ideals.

The world is passing through great tribulations.  Millions of people are left destitute with almost no ray of hope to maintain their courage.  The key to the whole situation is entrusted to our humble care, for we bear the message of God to the world for we are already shown the way to salvation.  Should we remain idle or become neglectful of our duties, then what would become of the perishing society?

In his moments of prayer Shoghi Effendi will remember you and Mr Bolton and ask for both of you, divine guidance and help.  In case you will, in your travels, come anywhere near to Haifa, he will be very glad to receive you and entertain you in the Bahá’í pilgrim house where Mrs Dunn is staying at present.

Please extend Shoghi Effendi’s greetings to all the friends in Sydney.  He sincerely hopes that their number will daily increase and become the source of inspiration and hope and guidance to all the people of that continent.

With best wishes,

Yours ever sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

With the assurance of my loving and fervent prayers at the Holy Shrines for your welfare and spiritual advancement and for the success of your endeavours for the spread of our beloved Faith.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

20 August 1932 [Clara Dunn]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

I am directed by Shoghi Effendi to thank you for your letter of June 20th, 1932 and to express his loving appreciation of your continued services to the Cause.

He was particularly glad to learn that you have recovered from your illness and that you are again able to promote the interests of the Faith in Australia.

Your visit to the friends in Perth, Sydney and Adelaide will, undoubtedly, be of a great help towards a closer and deeper cooperation among the friends, and will serve to create a spirit of unity that is so much needed in these days.

In this terrible hour when the Bahá’ís all over the world are mourning the loss of our departed Greatest Holy Leaf, our Guardian’s sole comfort is to see the friends working harmoniously together and paving the way for the speedy progress of the Cause.

His aching heart is overflowing with grief.  But he is fully confident that our beloved Khánum’s immortal spirit is continually showering its blessings upon that little band of faithful and toiling believers.

May the memory of her saintly life continue to inspire our souls, quicken our hearts and keep us ever constant and active in the Faith.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

My dear and precious sister:

The memory of your visit is still fresh in my mind and I trust that the day may not be far distant when Mr Dunn will be able to undertake a similar pilgrimage to the land of his heart’s desire.  The services which both of you have rendered, and are still rendering, to the Faith, are engraved upon the tablet of my heart.  Nothing can efface their trace or dim their memory.  I will continue to pray for both of you and for your dear collaborators in your promising country.  Rest assured,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

30 August 1932

The Bahá’ís of Perth,

c/o Annie O. Miller, 73 Berwick Street, Victoria Park, West Australia

Beloved co-workers in the Faith,

Your message of sympathy dated July 24th, 1932 written through your secretary Annie O. Miller was received and brought immense joy and satisfaction to Shoghi Effendi’s sorrow-stricken heart.  He wishes me to thank you all from the very depth of his heart and give you the assurance of his lively appreciation of your precious efforts towards the extension of the Cause in Australia.

Though overflowing with grief yet the news of your unceasing labours served to confirm his hopes, and to give him the assurance that the friends are as ever burning with the desire to spread the Message.

The new Bahá’í group that you have succeeded in establishing in Perth is, indeed, very significant and may prove to be a valuable asset to the future of the Cause in Australia.

Assuring you all of Shoghi Effendi’s best wishes and of his continued prayers for the advancement and success of your work.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

My dear co-workers:

I wish to thank your secretary for the letter she addressed me on your behalf as well as for her personal letter to me, both of which are eloquent testimonies to the reality of your faith and the depth of your devotion.  I will pray for you all from the depths of my aching heart and will supplicate for you Divine consolation, strength and guidance.  Rest assured.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

4 October 1932

To the Believers of Australia

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated August 25th 1932 and to express his deep appreciation for your kind words of sympathy.

The loss of the Greatest Holy Leaf will be bitterly felt by all those friends who had the pleasure and privilege to meet her.  She always kept such a wonderful atmosphere of joy and hope around her that was bound to influence those that were present and help them to go out into the world with added zeal and determination to consecrate all in the path of God.

The only consolation of Shoghi Effendi is in the knowledge that she has been delivered from earthly worries and physical weakness and that she is now in the presence of Bahá’u’lláh, her Father and Lord enjoying the infinite blessings of His eternal Kingdom.

In closing may I express Shoghi Effendi’s loving greetings to all the friends of Australia and assure them all of his prayers and best wishes for the progress of their Cause.

With best wishes,

Yours ever sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

With the assurance of my deepfelt appreciation of the noble sentiments expressed in your message, and of my fervent and loving prayers for your spiritual advancement and the removal of your difficulties.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

8 October 1932

To Adelaide Spiritual Assembly

Dear Bahá’í brothers and sisters:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated August 25th 1932 and to extend his deep appreciation for your kind words of sympathy.  This loss is a thing that will be bitterly felt by every Bahá’í throughout the world, because she used to be a source of inspiration to every one of them.  Mere coming into her presence and thinking of the trials and difficulties she had to pass through in her life, was sufficient to create in us new hope and arouse us to stronger determination to promote the Cause she suffered for.

Assuring you all of Shoghi Effendi’s loving greetings and best wishes.

Yours ever sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan.

May the Almighty bless, cheer and comfort you, and graciously assist you to reflect the beauty, and the radiance of our beloved Khánum’s saintly life, and enable you to perpetuate her glorious memory.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

9 November 1932

Mrs S. W. Bolton, 7410 12th Street, Detroit Michigan, USA

Dear Bahá’í sister,

The Guardian wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated October 19.  He was glad to hear that you have decided to settle for a while in Detroit and lend your valuable assistance to the Bahá’ís there.  He is certain that you will help them to spread the Faith and to prepare the people to receive the Message.

Shoghi Effendi deeply appreciates the eminent share that you and your husband are having in the services of the Cause; he has a profound and great confidence in your laborious endeavour, and values your assistance to the important task that he has been charged to fulfil by the Master.

Indeed it would have been for you such a joy to meet the Greatest Holy Leaf during her earthly life, but the Guardian does not wish you to feel depressed about it; this beloved soul will from the Heaven of her Almighty Father guide you to serve the Cause which has been so dear to her.  Shoghi Effendi values your sincere sympathy in this irreparable loss; he hopes that we all will follow the example of her saintly life.

The Guardian prays that the three little dear children that you are now so devotedly bringing up in the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh will in future, serve in turn the Cause in which they have been so well reared.  He will remember you in his prayers at the Holy Threshold of Bahá’u’lláh and will ask the blessing of the Master for this dear united Bahá’í Family.

Please convey the Guardian’s Bahá’í greetings to Mr Bolton.

Yours in His Name,

Mehranguiz Rabbani

Dear co-workers:

Your letter rejoiced my heart.  I do not wish you to allow any disappointment, however severe, to cause you to relax in your devoted efforts to promote the Word of God.  For your dear children I will pray from the depth of my heart, and will supplicate for your husband the blessings of our departed Master.  May he bless richly your family and enable its members to render distinguished services to His Faith.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

12 November 1932

The members of Sydney Bahá’í Assembly

Dear Bahá’í friends,

Your letter dated May 12th, that you have sent through the kindness of Mrs Bolton, was welcomed by the Guardian; he has charged me to acknowledge it and to extend to you his abiding gratitude for all the services that you are rendering towards the advancement of the Faith.

The Guardian was delighted to learn, that at last, through your admirable endeavours a Bahá’í meeting room has been established in Sydney; your successful report of the first opening meeting, has indeed, rejoiced the heart of Shoghi Effendi, who is looking so eagerly to receive the news of the progress of the Faith.  He is fully aware that the Friends are laboriously at task, spreading the teachings of our Beloved Master and trying their best to serve such an eminent Cause.

Indeed our Bahá’í sister Keith is rendering wonderful services for the advancement of the Faith.  Her visit to Haifa has gladdened Shoghi Effendi, who has urged her to travel for awhile in Persia.  She is now on her teaching tour in Bahá’u’lláh’s native land, rendering remarkable services, giving the Sacred Message to the eminent Persian leaders.

The Guardian deeply appreciates the efforts that the Bahá’ís of Sydney are displaying for the establishment of the Cause of God over their country, and the fulfilment of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s fondest hope:  to bring the world under Bahá’u’lláh’s banner.  He will pray from the depth of his heart for the success of your efforts, and will supplicate at the Holy Shrines, that the light of Divine Guidance may illumine your path and enable you to kindle in the hearts of the people, the flame of Truth.  He has great confidence in your valuable enterprise, and values your earnestness to assist him in such a mighty task.

With the assurance of the Guardian’s prayers,

Your Bahá’í sister,

Mehrangíz Rabbani

Dear co-workers:

I wish to add a few words in person in order to assure you of my keen and abiding appreciation of your devoted endeavours for the promotion of the word of God and the consolidation of the institutions of His Faith.  May He guide your steps, cheer your hearts, and enable you to hasten the triumph of His Cause,

Shoghi

27 December 1932

The Bahá’í Assembly

c/o Hilda Brooks, Secretary Adelaide, South Australia

Beloved co-workers in the Faith,

Your most beautiful message of November 29th, 1932, written through Miss Hilda Brooks, your Secretary, was received and the news of the projected formation of a National Spiritual Assembly in Australia gladdened the heart of our Guardian.  He sincerely hopes that, through the whole-hearted cooperation of our Australian believers, this plan will soon materialize and will serve to coordinate the efforts of the various Spiritual Assemblies in that continent.  The time has come, the Guardian believes, that the friends should organise themselves into a solidly-united administrative body and in this way increase the efficiency and the success of their teaching work.

In closing may I assure you all of his fervent prayers on your behalf and of his warmest thanks for all that you have done for the further consolidation of the interests of the Cause in your land.

Yours very sincerely,

H. Rabbani

Dear co-workers,

It is for the Local Assemblies in Australia and New Zealand to take counsel together and deliberate whether it is feasible to ensure the formation and successful functioning of the National Assembly in that continent.  I would be delighted to hear of its formation if the necessary precautions are taken before hand, so as to make sure that the elected members can meet regularly, can direct effectively the national committees as well as the Local Assemblies and groups under their jurisdiction, establish a National Fund, hold annual Bahá’í Conventions and coordinate the various branches of Bahá’í activity with efficiency, harmony and vigour.

Shoghi

24 January 1933 [Hyde Dunn]

Dear Mr Dunn:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated December 16th 1933.

What you stated as the basic teachings of this Faith is quite correct, only you should not say that the Master, who obtained His inspiration from Bahá’u’lláh, rather than directly from God, was on the same footing as Bahá’u’lláh.  The moon cannot be compared to the Sun.  And this the Master states in His last will and testament.  There he states what ought to be the basic belief of every Bahá’í.

As regards the charts:  what the Guardian told Mrs Dunn was that we should be very careful not to consider geometrical figures as expressing in an absolutely true form what is in reality spiritual relations and beyond our comprehension.  The charts may be helpful to state some primary facts but surely the reality has elements far beyond what they can express.

All these points are clearly explained in books such as the “Íqán” and “Some Answered Questions”, and the students of the teachings should be encouraged to study them and the more they study them the more will the truth reveal itself to them.

Shoghi Effendi was very glad to hear of your services and of the progress of the Faith.  The credit for most of what has been achieved surely is yours, for you have been the father of that community.  The Guardian hopes that you will continue to render distinguished services to the Faith.

As regards the tea-room the Guardian believes that you should confer with the friends there who are better acquainted with the circumstances.  Anyhow you have his best wishes.  God will surely help devoted servants of His such as you.

Please convey Shoghi Effendi’s loving greetings to Mr and Mrs Bolton.

It was surely a very Bahá’í act for them to open their home to you, God will surely recompense him who helps the servants of His Cause.

The Guardian will pray for them as well as for their son.  May they all render distinguished services to His Cause.

While visiting the blessed Shrines the Guardian will think of you and Mrs Dunn, as well as the other friends there and ask for you all divine guidance and help.

Yours ever sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

Dear and most prized co-worker,

Your letters are always a source of genuine pleasure and satisfaction to my overburdened heart and soul.  I deeply value your services, above all I value beyond words the spirit that animates you in His service.  The chart which you have sent, and which I regard as very helpful, I will keep in the mansion of Bahá’u’lláh at Bahjí.  I hope you may be enabled some day to visit it.  My prayers will continue to be offered in your behalf.  Convey my greetings to Mrs Dunn and assure her of my keen and abiding appreciation of her constant and self-sacrificing labours.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

2 March 1933 [Maysie Almond]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated January 27th 1933.

As regards the changing of the pronouns in the prayers of Bahá’u’lláh.  Even though the change is not so important for it makes no alteration in an important aspect of the writings, yet it is counter to a basic principle mentioned by Bahá’u’lláh in the book of Aqdas.  There he prohibits in most emphatic terms the interpolation of the Words.  It would therefore be wrong to effect such modifications even though it is insignificant.

It is very difficult, that having an English translation of a prayer, to know the Persian or Arabic original of it, for Bahá’í prayers are many and not all compiled in one or a series of books.  It is therefore difficult to find the original of the prayer you mention to compare it with the translation.  If we follow the meaning of the verse we would find that the last word “world” should be plural.  This is also a familiar expression of Bahá’u’lláh and quite true for He says repeatedly that besides this there are many worlds.

The Guardian will surely, while visiting the Shrines, pray for you and Meade Almond as well as for Ethel Dawe and Hilda Brooks.  He trusts that through your efforts, now and in the future, the spirit of the Faith will spread far and wide and bring many seeking souls to the teachings of the Cause.

With best wishes, yours ever sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

Dear co-worker:

I wish to assure you in person of my continued prayers for your spiritual advancement and for the success of the noble efforts you are exerting for the spread of our beloved Faith.  Rest assured and persevere in your pioneer work which the Almighty will abundantly bless and enable you to extend its scope in the days to come.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

29 March 1933 [Eric Watkin]

Dear Mr Watkin:

The Guardian wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter as well as the manuscript of your thesis.

As he has no time to go over it in person at present, he asked me to read it and give you any suggestions I have.  He will avail himself of the first opportunity he obtains to read it through personally.

In one connection you mention that the Garden of Riḍván is near Mt. Carmel and that Bahá’u’lláh lived in it and used to go to the Mountain for prayer.  This is incorrect.  The garden is in Acre and far from the Mountain.  Having never seen Haifa you have confused the localities and different sites.  I would advise you to leave out those passages.

Then, you mention the importance of numerology and the occult sciences and advise that the students should be taught these things.  As you are trying to express the Bahá’í point of view on the subject of education, it would be far better to leave this out, for the Master discourages the study of numerology and the occult sciences instead of encouraging them.  He says there is a germ of truth in them but that does not justify us to attribute any importance to them.  I have mentioned this to the Guardian and he also feels you had better leave out the passage.

Shoghi Effendi deeply appreciates your efforts in presenting the educational program of the Faith to the public.  It is, naturally, premature for us to say what the full and considered program is, for all the Tablets have not been collected and studied, and we do not know, as yet, every thing that Bahá’u’lláh and the Master have said on the subject.  The step you have taken is therefore that of a pioneer who even though he may not achieve everything will create enough interest to arouse others to follow his footsteps.

In closing may I express the Guardian’s loving greetings to you as well as to Mrs Watkin and assure you both of his earnest prayers for the progress of your work.

With best wishes,

Yours ever sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

With the assurance of my prayers for your welfare, your success and spiritual advancement.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

27 April 1933 [Dorothy Dugdale]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The Guardian wishes me to thank you for your kind letter dated March 26th 1933 expressing to him your deep love and attachment to the Cause.

He sincerely hopes and prays that this love will stimulate you to render distinguished services to the Faith; and he is confident that it will, because such a deep attachment is bound to express itself in your acts and inspire you to constantly strive and sacrifice in the path of attainment to your spiritual longings.

In his moments of prayer at the Blessed Shrines, the Guardian will think of you and ask God to guide and assist you and to reinforce your efforts in promoting the Faith in Australia.

With the condition of the world as it is—full of strife, distrust and uncertainties—we should not sit idle for a single moment.  We should bear in mind the admonitions of the Master, as well as His encouraging words and lofty principles, and labour until His hopes are realized and His ideals attained.  With best wishes,

Yours ever sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

Dear and precious co-worker:

I am deeply touched by the sentiments expressed in your letter and I wish to assure you in person of my loving, my ardent and constant prayers for the speedy realization of your heart’s desire and for your spiritual advancement.  I will also remember in my prayers your devoted co-workers in Adelaide and will supplicate for them the Master’s richest blessings.  Rest assured and be happy,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

28 April 1933

Mr Stanley W. Bolton,

Box 56, Palmer School of Chiropractic, Davenport, Iowa, USA

Dear Mr Bolton,

The Guardian wishes me to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated April 2, 1933.

He sincerely hopes that wherever you be and whatever you do you may be guided and assisted by the spirit of the Master.  These are surely difficult days and without the consciousness that the spirit of the Master is leading us onward to our final destiny and spiritual attainments, we would never be able to stand our sorrows and overcome the obstacles we find on our way.

Shoghi Effendi was very glad to hear that Dr Palmer has met the Master and was deeply impressed by him.  May he gradually come to learn and accept this divine message and consecrate his life to its service.

As regards your return to Australia, in case Haifa will fall on your way you are heartily welcomed to visit the Shrines and spend a few days in the pilgrim-house.  To spend a few moments of deep meditation in those sacred spots is a blessing that every true and sincere soul will deeply appreciate.

Assuring you and the members of your family of the Guardian’s prayers and best wishes I remain,

Yours ever sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

May the Beloved bless richly your efforts, guide every step you take, deepen your knowledge of the essentials of His Faith and enable you to render signal services to His Cause,

Shoghi

29 April 1933 [Emily Axford]

Dear Mrs Axford:

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to thank you for your kind letter of March 16th 1933, as well as the enclosed article which has been translated by Mr Paul into the Maori language.

The Guardian has already written Mr Paul and expressed his deep appreciation for the service he has rendered to the Faith, but especially to his own people who through the means of such literature will be acquainted with the teachings and will receive the light of guidance brought to the world by Bahá’u’lláh.

I believe the Guardian has already intimated his approval of this pamphlet and the desire that the friends in Australia publish and circulate it among the Maoris.

As regards the passages with sacred writings indicating the wrath of God; Shoghi Effendi says that the Divinity has many attributes.  He is loving and merciful but also just.  Just as reward and punishment, according to Bahá’u’lláh, are the pillars upon which society rests, so mercy and justice may be considered as their counterpart in the world to come.  Should we disobey God and work against His commands He will view our acts in the light of justice and punish us for it.  That punishment may not be in the form of fire, as some believe, but in the form of spiritual deprivation and degradation.  This is why we read so often in the prayers statements such as “God do not deal with us with justice, but rather through thy infinite mercy”.  The wrath of God is in the administration of His justice, both in this world and in the world to come.  A God that is only loving or only just is not a perfect God.  The Divinity has to possess both of these aspects as every father ought to express both in his attitude towards his children.  If we ponder a while, we will see that our welfare can be insured only when both of these divine attributes are equally emphasised and practised.

In closing may I express the Guardian’s loving greetings and best wishes for the progress of your work in serving the Cause.

Yours ever sincerely,

Ruhi Afnan

May the almighty bless your efforts, deepen your understanding of the essentials and distinguishing features of His Faith, guide your steps, and aid and assist you to extend the range of your activities and services,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

29 May 1933

The Adelaide Spiritual Assembly

c/o Hilda Brooks, Secretary, Adelaide, South Australia

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

I have been requested by the Guardian to inform you of the receipt of your letter dated April 24th, 1933 together with the enclosed membership application form which you had sent for his approval.  The news of the projected formation of an Australian National Assembly greatly cheered his heart and confirmed his hopes for the future of the Cause in Australia and New Zealand.  He is confident that through your perseverance, enthusiasm and devotion great results will be achieved.  He wishes you, however, not to be in a hurry, to proceed slowly and carefully and to follow as closely as possible the example set by our American brethren in their attempt to widen and consolidate the nascent institutions of the Faith in their land.  The formation of a National Assembly is not an easy matter.  It is fraught with incalculable difficulties.  Our Australian friends, therefore, should act with great caution and wisdom lest they jeopardize the very best interests of the Cause.

Shoghi Effendi has carefully read your membership application form for affiliation with Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand and he wishes me to assure you that it has met with his whole-hearted approval.  In all the various and important steps you are now taking for the formation of your National Assembly he would strongly urge you to ask the advice of the American National Assembly, to keep in close and constant touch with its members who are on the whole much more experienced in matters pertaining to the actual functioning of Bahá’í administrative institutions.  Moreover, the volume “Bahá’í Administration” is an indispensable book for a thorough understanding of the spirit as well as the form of the Bahá’í Administrative system.  Its perusal is incumbent upon all, for upon its study much of our understanding of the Cause depends.

In conclusion may I extend to you all the loving greetings of the Guardian.  In his moments of meditation and prayer he will remember you and [illegible] the Lord to enable you render His Cause yet greater services.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dearly-beloved co-workers:

Your activities and institutions, the development of which constitutes the privilege and sacred obligation of the Bahá’í elected representatives in Australia and New Zealand, should, I strongly feel, follow the lines and function according to the principles, adopted by the American National Assembly—embodied in their by-laws and Declarations of Trust, both national and local.  These fundamental principles, whether spiritual or administrative, are the bedrock of the future civilization, the source and centre of which is the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.  I advise you to keep in constant touch with the American National Assembly and seek from them the advice and assistance you require in your noble mission.  May the spirit of Bahá’u’lláh guide, inspire and assist you to rear the noble structure of a duly constituted National Assembly for that far-away yet promising continent.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

23 June 1933

The Bahá’í Assembly

c/o Mr E. H. Brewer, Secretary Sydney, Australia

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge on his behalf the receipt of your letter of May 19th, 1933, written through Mr Brewer your secretary, together with the enclosed communication addressed by you to the Adelaide Assembly, all of which he has read with deepest appreciation.  He hopes that the newly-elected members of your Assembly will be deeply confirmed in their efforts for the further extension and consolidation of the nascent institutions of the Faith in Australia.  The Guardian wishes you to concentrate most of your efforts during this year on the ways and means essential for the eventual establishment of an Australian National Assembly.  The time has come, he sincerely believes, when our Australian friends have to coordinate their administrative activities and thereby give a new impetus to the development of the Cause in their land.

Shoghi Effendi was extremely pleased to witness how earnestly you are serving the cause of the Temple, through your continued and self-sacrificing endeavours.  He is confident that the financial and the moral assistance you are so devotedly extending to our American brethren will increasingly draw upon you the blessings of God and will enable you to serve His Cause with increasing success.

With the assurance of his best wishes for you all,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dearly beloved co-workers:

The incessant and ever increasing activities of the Sydney believers and of their collaborators in other cities of Australia and New Zealand are a source of joy and inspiration and strength to my heart, and soul.  I will pray that Bahá’u’lláh’s almighty arm may guide your steps in your efforts to erect one of the national pillars of that supreme and universal world-embracing House of Justice the promise of which lies enshrined in the writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  More power to your elbow!  My heart is full of gratitude for your splendid initiative and pioneer services.

Shoghi

25 July 1933 [Eric Watkin]

Dear Bahá’í brother,

Your letter of May 19th, 1933 addressed to Ruhi Afnan was duly received together with the enclosed sum as your contribution to the Faith.

The Guardian was especially glad to learn that you are in a good health and that you are so devotedly and so continuously offering your services to the Cause.  It is so encouraging and inspiring to see the friends so eager to promote the Teachings.  He is confident that through your self-sacrificing efforts as well as through your thorough understanding of the essentials of the Faith you can win a great success in the teaching field.  May Bahá’u’lláh inspire and sustain your noble efforts and impart to your soul the courage, wisdom and strength you need for the fulfilment of your work.

Shoghi Effendi will always remember you in his prayers and will implore for you the blessings of God so that you may be increasingly confirmed in His Cause.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

8 August 1933 [Bertha Dobbins]

Dear spiritual sister,

Shoghi Effendi was so glad to receive your beautiful and most interesting message of June 28th, 1933 together with the enclosed newspaper clipping and to learn of your activities after such a long time.  The many news you have given him about the progress of the Cause in Australia, together with the suggestions you have made for its further extension and consolidation in that continent, were thoroughly appreciated by him.  You seem to have given him a faithful and true account of the standing of the Cause in your community.  He hopes that you will write to him more frequently and will keep him in close and constant touch with your activities.

The Guardian is firmly convinced that you can be of a great help to the friends in Australia and that your knowledge of the Cause and your eagerness to promote its principles make you specially fit to devote a good deal of your time to the teaching of the Faith.  You should fully avail yourself of this opportunity and arise to dedicate your life to the service of the Cause.  Before you is a vast and endless field of teaching.  You have the energy, the courage, and the ability to undertake such a highly important and most delicate task.  May Bahá’u’lláh strengthen and help you and may He shower upon you His blessings and impart to your soul that peace and serenity of which the world is in such a crying need.

Shoghi Effendi would like you also to make all your effort to increase among the friends the spirit of unity and of cooperation and to encourage the young believers to come into a closer contact with the older generation of friends, so that through this harmonious cooperation the Cause may be given a further chance to develop and expand.  The Faith needs both the experiences and the wisdom of age as well as the enthusiasm and the energy of youth.  When all these qualities are harmoniously combined great results will be achieved.

With the assurance of the Guardian’s best wishes and of his fervent prayers on your behalf and on behalf of your devoted husband,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and prized co-worker:

Do not lose courage or hope.  I will fervently pray for the deliverance and awakening of the continent in which you live.  Persevere in your efforts.  I cherish bright hopes for the future of your work in both the teaching and administrative fields, and I feel confident that Bahá’u’lláh will guide your steps and enable you to surmount all obstacles for the child you expect.  I will also pray.  Rest assured,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

13 August 1933 [Joe Dobbins]

Dear Bahá’í brother,

Your message of July 4th, 1933 brought much joy and happiness to the Guardian’s heart, as it was abounding with facts that clearly demonstrated your eagerness to spread the Holy Message and your readiness to foster and safeguard the cause of the Administration in your locality.  The Cause greatly needs your enthusiasm, your spirit of initiative and of whole-hearted loyalty to the essentials of the Faith, and above all your genuine realization of the necessity of cooperation and consultation in all your Bahá’í activities.

In regard to your wish of broadcasting the Message, Shoghi Effendi would advise you to consult with the Spiritual Assembly as to whether such an action meets their approval, and if so to ask their assistance and help for finding the best

means through which to carry out your plan.  The idea of a wireless station is rather ambitious and requires much financial expenditure.  If, however, you find it feasible and within your financial capacity you should not hesitate to do so, inasmuch as this will enable you to spread the Cause in a much easier and more efficient manner.

In closing please extent the Guardian’s loving greetings to your dear wife and to all the friends in your community and assure them all of his fervent prayers for their advancement and welfare.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

With the assurance of my loving and fervent prayers for the realization of your hopes and the complete and speedy success of your high and devoted endeavours,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

5 December 1933

The Bahá’í Spiritual Assembly, c/o Miss Hilda Brooks, Box 447D, Adelaide, South Australia

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

The newsletter which your secretary D. M. Dugdale kindly forwarded to the Guardian was received and its perusal filled his heart with inexpressible joy.  It is so encouraging and uplifting to learn of the steadfastness, loyalty and devotion with which our Australian brethren are toiling for the extension of the divine World Order, and are sacrificing so much of their resources for the widening and the strengthening of the basis of its nascent administrative institutions.

Shoghi Effendi sincerely hopes that all the friends and Assemblies throughout Australia and New Zealand will combine their efforts in the coming year in order to hasten and insure the establishment of their National Assembly, and in this way advance a step further in the administrative organisation of the Cause.  He has already urged the friends to take all the steps necessary and essential to the creation of such a body which will coordinate and unite the teaching as well as the administrative activities of the entire body of our Australian and New Zealand believers.

The Guardian wishes also to stress the importance, in these days when the Cause is making such a rapid advance in the West, of widening, as much as resources permit, the sphere of your teaching activities as well as Bahá’í publications.  Their standard, both intellectual and artistic, should be raised in order that through them the interest of the public in the teachings of the Faith may be increased and kept alive.  Much effort should be spent particularly on your monthly magazine, the “Herald of the South” that its subscribers may

increase in number and that they may encourage their friends to read and study its contents.

The Guardian will continue to supplicate on behalf of you all, that you may soon be able to form your National Assembly and thus contribute your share to the formation of the future Intern.  House of Justice and to the administrative expansion and consolidation of the Faith.  With loving Bahá’í greetings and best wishes,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

13 February 1934 [Hyde Dunn]

Dear Bahá’í brother,

On behalf of Shoghi Effendi I wish to thank you for your letter dated January 4th and for the enclosed report on Bahá’í activities in Sydney which our dear friend Mr Bertram Dewing had so carefully prepared for the “Bahá’í World”.  The text of the report will be forwarded to Mr Horace Holley that he may incorporate it in his general survey of Bahá’í activities throughout the world during the last two years.

With many thanks and with loving Bahá’í greetings to you and to all the friends in Sydney,

Yours in his service,

H. Rabbani

With the assurance of my loving appreciation of your steadfast endeavours and devotion in the service of our beloved Faith, and of my prayers for your welfare and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

23 February 1934 [Mariette Bolton]

Mrs S. W. Bolton, P.S.C. Box 56, Davenport, Iowa, USA

Dear Bahá’í sister,

On behalf of the Guardian I wish to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated February 1, and to thank you for the three booklets you have sent him under separate cover.  He was glad to go over them and to realize that in some of their aspects they bear certain resemblance to the teachings.

He hopes that your close and continued contact with Mr B. J. Palmer will serve to deepen his interest in the Cause, and to stimulate him to do something for its spread in your locality.

He will certainly pray on your behalf that your labours in this connection may prove fruitful.  Let me also assure you of his prayers on behalf of your family.  May the Beloved keep and strengthen them in his Cause.

With loving greetings to you and your husband,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

With the assurance of my loving prayers for your spiritual advancement and success in the service of our beloved Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

27 February 1934 [Adelaide Spiritual Assembly]

Dear Bahá’í Friend,

On behalf of Shoghi Effendi I wish to thank you for your letter dated February 1st which you had written in the name of the Adelaide Spiritual Assembly, expressing the difficulties which the friends are encountering in the formation of their NSA.

As the Guardian has already intimated, the believers should in no way consider the establishment of a National Assembly in Australia as an impending obligation, but as an important step to be taken when circumstances are on the whole favourable.  He is fully conscious of the obstacles which impede the realization of this suggestion he has made to some of our Australian and New Zealand believers.  And in view of that he would recommend the friends not to take any definite action in the matter unless they can ascertain that their plan can be successfully carried out.

As regards the method to be adopted for the election of the delegates to the Convention, he feels that as the friends in Australia and New Zealand are relatively few in number it would be advisable for them to have only nine or nineteen delegates instead of ninety-five.  And these delegates must be elected to represent those localities where there are duly established Local Spiritual Assemblies, and according to the principle of proportional representation.  As to the adoption of the Membership Application Form, the Guardian prefers to leave this matter entirely in the hands of your National Assembly when it is formed.

Trusting that this coming spring will witness a marked development in the administration of the Faith in Australia and New Zealand, and with best wishes for the success of your labours in this connection.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

May the Almighty guide and sustain you in your devoted and persistent efforts for the spread of the Faith and the consolidation of its institutions, and may His spirit enable you to overcome every obstacle and fulfil your heart’s desire.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

26 March 1934 [Clara Dunn]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

On behalf of the Guardian I wish to thank you for your much appreciated letter of February 22nd which carried the joyful news of the projected formation of the Convention of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand, in the middle of this coming April.  I cannot, indeed, refrain from expressing his deep and abiding gratitude for this latest expression of the spirit of determination, of courage and of whole-hearted loyalty which is so powerfully animating our Australian and New Zealand believers, and which, in the years to come, will enable them to forge ahead in their efforts for the establishment and expansion of the administrative order of the Faith in their country.  This new and momentous step they have been inspired to take will surely bring them into a closer and deeper contact with the general body of the Cause, by providing them with an opportunity to discharge, with more effectiveness and power, their manifold and sacred responsibilities for the international promotion and safeguarding of the Faith.  The formation of every new National Assembly must, indeed, be viewed as a step forward in the evolution of the Administration of the Faith.  And not until a sufficient number of such National Assemblies has been duly constituted can there be any hope for the future expansion of the Cause.

I need not remind you of the Guardian’s oft-repeated urge that in the formation of their Convention as well as in all their other activities in connection with the election of the NSA the friends must follow as closely as possible and with due consideration to certain local differences, all the regulations, laws and principles governing the administration of the Faith in America.  The American NSA is, indeed, the prototype of all other National Assemblies in the Bahá’í world.  And this, not because of any geographical or national considerations but due to the fact that it constitutes the oldest and the most effective organ of its kind in the field of the administration.

With loving greetings to you and to Mr Dunn,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and precious co-worker:

I am overjoyed to learn of the historic decision of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand.  It marks a turning point in the history of the Faith in that far-away continent.  The entire Bahá’í world welcomes this stimulating

intelligence and feels deeply grateful for the spirit that has prompted it.  I will from the bottom of my heart pray that the blessings of Bahá’u’lláh may rest upon the deliberations of this First Convention of the Bahá’ís in Australia and New Zealand,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

8 May 1934 [Hyde Dunn]

Dear Bahá’í Friend,

Shoghi Effendi has received your letter of Apr.  7th, and was deeply moved by the spirit which is animating and sustaining you in your services to the Cause in Australia.  He feels, indeed, deeply grateful to you, and to each and every member of the community in that land for the remarkable and historic step you have taken for the formation of your first National Spiritual Assembly.  He is fervently supplicating the Almighty that His guidance may continue to light the path which you are destined to follow, and that through His Divine assistance you may be enabled to pave the way for the safe and speedy establishment and consolidation of the administration of the Faith in your country.

In closing please accept his best wishes for yourself and for your work, and convey his loving greetings to all the faithful, and particularly to Mr and Mrs Brewer, to Mr Guy Inman and to dear Mr Dewing.  May I also assure you of his prayers for the confirmation of Mrs E. McLachlan.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and precious co-worker:

I fully share your joy, your gratitude and deepest satisfaction at the fruition of your patient, your arduous, your historic and exemplary labours in that far-off continent.  The formation of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand crowns your magnificent work for His Cause.  The supreme concourse glorifies and extols the endeavours which Mrs Dunn and yourself have so devotedly and heroically exerted.  Future generations will magnify your great and unforgettable achievements.  I am deeply thankful for and proud of all that you have done,

Shoghi

15 May 1934 [Adelaide Spiritual Assembly]

Dear Bahá’í Friend,

The Guardian has deeply appreciated your message dated April 10th, and he has asked me to convey to you once more his grateful thanks for the services

you are so continually rendering the Faith in your centre.  The gratifying news has just reached him of the opening of the first Convention of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand, and needless to say how deeply he was moved by this historic step you have been inspired to take for the consolidation of the Administration in your country.  He feels confident that through such remarkable evidences of the self-sacrificing, heroic and united efforts of the Australian and New Zealand believers an increasing number of hitherto sceptical and unfriendly people will be gradually attracted to the Faith.

Assuring you again of the Guardian’s fervent prayers for the continued expansion of your Bahá’í activities, and with his best wishes and greetings to you and to all the friends in Adelaide,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

I rejoice to learn of the momentous step the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand have taken.  They will surely be reinforced by the hosts of the Kingdom, and deserve the praise and admiration of their fellow-believers throughout the world.  Constancy, co-operation, unity and steadfast adherence to the spiritual and administrative principles of the Faith are essential during these days when the foundations of the Universal House of Justice are being laid through your devoted efforts in your own country.  I will continue to pray for you from the depths of my heart.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

15 May 1934 [Hyde Dunn]

INEXPRESSIBLY GLADDENED CELEBRATION FIRST HISTORIC CONVENTION ASSURE DELEGATES ABOUNDING GRATITUDE FERVENT PRAYERS DEEPEST LOVE SHOGHI

13 June 1934 [Bertram Dewing]

Dear Mr Dewing,

The Guardian has duly received and deeply enjoyed reading your letters dated November 30th, December 27th, 1933 and February 4th, 1934.  He is sorry that unforseen circumstances have caused such a long delay in acknowledging their receipt.  He hopes, however, that the matters you have submitted for his consideration have not suffered as a result.

Since your last letter to him, he has heard of the gratifying news of the formation of your NSA.  This historic step in the development of the Administration in Australia and New Zealand is, he feels, bound to react favourably on the further expansion and consolidation of the Faith in these

far-off lands.  He is fervently supplicating Bahá’u’lláh that the newly-elected members of the NSA, upon whom has been placed such a tremendous responsibility, be assisted in the discharge of their sacred obligations and duties to the Faith.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

The splendid reports you have sent me have been incorporated in the manuscript and sent to the “Bahá’í World” committee in America.  The formation of the National Assembly of Australia and New Zealand will no doubt furnish you with new and refreshing material for your next report in 1936.  I will pray for your success and deeply value the manifold and constant services you are rendering the Cause of God.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

10 September 1934 [Clara and Hyde Dunn]

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

The Guardian has just received from the editor of the “Herald of the South” copies of your monthly magazine together with the printed report of the first Convention of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand, and he is deeply gratified to witness the steady advancement which your National Assembly is making in consolidating the foundations and in extending the sphere of the administration of the Faith throughout your country.  He was particularly impressed by the photograph of the delegates at the Convention and also by that representing the members of your newly-elected National Assembly, both of which have been beautifully reproduced in the last issue of the “Herald of the South”.  He would be, indeed, very thankful if you send him three copies of each of these photographs which he wishes to place in the mansion of Bahá’u’lláh at Bahjí.  He feels certain that the many visitors to this hallowed spot, both believers and non-believers alike, will be deeply impressed by them, and will be further convinced in their recognition of the tremendous and unsurpassed progress achieved by the Faith in these far-off lands.

In closing I wish to assure you of the Guardian’s best wishes, and to renew his grateful appreciation of your continued and pioneering services for the Cause in Australia.  His prayers for you both, as well as for your collaborators in the National Assembly are being continually offered to God.  May His unfailing guidance and love continue to impart a fresh and ever-increasing

stimulus to your collective endeavours for the further penetration and establishment of His Faith.

With warmest greetings and heartfelt thanks,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

P.S.  The Guardian wishes to remind you and through you the members of your National Assembly that in conformity with the general rule and practice among the believers and for the sake of maintaining the necessary unity in the administrative rulings and procedures of the Cause you should have your Annual Convention held any time during the twelve days of Riḍván beginning from April 21st, and not on May 15th as observed in your last Convention gathering.

P.P.S.  Shoghi Effendi is directing the Spiritual Assembly of Haifa to incorporate both in the English and in the Persian issues of their circular letter the news of the Convention of the Australian and New Zealand friends as this news will greatly stimulate and inspire the believers all over the world.

25 September 1934 […]

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

The Guardian has read and carefully considered your letter of July 29th with its enclosures, and was profoundly grieved to learn of the unfortunate situation that has arisen between you and your Local Spiritual Assembly.  He hopes, nevertheless, that through your exemplary self-sacrifice and your spirit of good-will this abnormal condition will be soon remedied, and that your relations with the Assembly will take on their normal course.  In view of that he would advise you to drop the matter entirely, to even forget it, and to demonstrate through both your words and deeds your unqualified and whole-hearted obedience to whatever your Assembly decides and acts upon.  For in so doing you will be demonstrating your loyalty not to any individual, but to a principle and to that body which incarnates and exemplifies that same principle.

The Guardian feels also that it would be more advisable if you do not petition the National Assembly, in view of the fact that this body has much more constructive problems before it for consideration and settlement.  He would advise you also not to insist any more on obtaining an apology from your Local Assembly, for such an act even though it may be justified by facts, would assuredly lower the prestige of that institution in the eyes of the believers.  The Guardian’s impression is that the whole issue is due to a misunderstanding between you and the Assembly, and that in view of that it would be preferable not to give it any more consideration than it deserves.  Such misunderstandings have invariably accompanied the birth of the administration in every country in which it has been established, and time has proved that through

the propelling power of the Faith each and all of them have been gradually and effectively wiped out.  You need, therefore, have no misapprehension whatever.  Your action, the Guardian feels certain, will constitute an example which the friends will thoroughly appreciate, and in the light of which they will learn to settle every problem arising between them and their Assemblies in future.

With his best wishes and greetings to you both.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear co-workers:

Do not allow, I beseech you, this unfortunate incident to damp your ardour or to impair the effectiveness of your labours in the service of our beloved Faith.  No sacrifice, I assure you, is too great for the consolidation of the nascent institutions of God’s Cause in your promising country.  Persevere, be happy and confident.  I will continue to pray for you from the depths of my heart.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

21 December 1934 [Ethel Blundell]

GRIEF STRICKEN ASSURE YOU DEEPFELT SYMPATHY PRAYING FERVENTLY PIONEER SERVICES EVER REMEMBERED

22 December 1934

Ethel Blundell

Dear Bahá’í sister,

The Guardian was profoundly grieved to learn of the passing away of your dear mother, and has directed me to convey to you, and to the bereaved members of your family, his heartfelt condolences and sympathy for this severe loss which you have sustained.

Mrs Blundell’s departure is, indeed, a loss not only to her family, but also to the community of her fellow-believers in New Zealand.  For in her they have come to lose one of their oldest and most distinguished co-workers.

The Guardian well remembers her pilgrimage to the Holy Land, and has always cherished the hope that she would once more be enabled to visit the Shrines.  But alas, her departed soul has taken its flight from this world, leaving her friends and relatives in a state of profoundest grief.  Their only consolation now is the realization that through her painstaking and sustained labours for the Cause in Auckland Mrs Blundell has left an abiding monument to her memory, and one which will continue for many years to come to inspire and strengthen them all in their collective endeavours for the establishment of the Faith in New Zealand.

Shoghi Effendi is fervently praying for the soul of our departed sister, and is entreating Bahá’u’lláh to give her her full share of divine blessings in the other world.

May I also assure you of his ardent supplications for you, and for all the friends in Auckland.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

7 January 1935 [Auckland Spiritual Assembly]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

The Guardian has duly received your beautiful message of the 2nd of December, and he wishes me to thank you for it, as well as for the enclosed copy of the Auckland Assembly’s circular letter which he has delivered to the Spiritual Assembly of Haifa for their perusal.

He also wishes me to ask you to kindly inform Miss Blundell of the receipt of the twenty-five copies of the Maori pamphlet which she had lately mailed to him.  These, together with those she had sent previously, have all been placed in his own library, and a few copies have also been placed in the Mansion of Bahá’u’lláh at Bahjí for the information of the general public.

In closing, the Guardian wishes me to renew to you the expressions of his abiding and genuine appreciation of your labours for the Cause in Auckland, and particularly in connection with your duties as secretary of the Local Assembly.  He is praying from the very depth of his heart for your progress and success in this important field of Bahá’í service.

With heartiest greetings to you and all the friends,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dearly beloved co-workers:

I wish to assure you of my deepfelt appreciation of your constant and manifold services to the Faith, and particularly of the share you have had in consolidating its administrative institutions in both Australia and New Zealand, whether local or national.  My prayers will continue to be offered from the bottom of my heart for your dear co-workers.  Persevere and never feel disheartened.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

5 February 1935 [Ethel Blundell]

Dear Miss Blundell,

The Guardian has just received your kind message of the second of January last, and wishes me to thank you for it.

It comforted him greatly to learn that, despite the severe loss which you have sustained through the passing away of your mother, you are still engaged as actively as before in the work which you have set your heart to accomplish for the Cause in Auckland.  The agonies of her earthly separation from you, difficult though they may be to bear, will assuredly be transmuted through the blessings of Bahá’u’lláh into a peaceful and abiding joy.  In serving a Cause for which your mother sacrificed so much you will no doubt come to find the very purpose of your life, and the true secret of happiness in this, as well as in the next world.

The Guardian is fervently praying for you and for your brother, that you both may be strengthened and guided in your services to the Cause, and in this way continue and enrich still further the noble heritage which your mother has left for the Faith in New Zealand.

With loving Bahá’í greetings to you and to all the friends in Auckland,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear co-worker:

I wish to assure you in person of my heartfelt sympathy in the loss you have sustained, and of my loving and ardent prayers for the departed soul.  The work with which her name will for ever be associated will confer upon her imperishable glory, and her example will serve to stimulate the rising generation to follow in her footsteps, and carry on the work she has so nobly initiated.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

29 May 1935 [Clara Dunn]

Dear Bahá’í Friend,

The Guardian is profoundly grieved to learn from your letter of the 19th of April last, that Mr Dunn has had a stroke, and that as a result he is confined to bed and is unable to attend to his work for the Cause.  It is very kind, indeed, of Mr and Mrs Bolton to have offered themselves for nursing and treating him, and it is hoped that through their kind assistance and care, as well as through the bounty and favours of Bahá’u’lláh, our beloved patient will gradually improve in health, and will be able to resume his activities for the Faith in a not too distant future.

In his prayers and meditations at the Holy Shrines he will specially remember him, and will pray for his complete recovery.

As to yourself, Shoghi Effendi sees no objection if, for the present, you offer your resignation from the Local Assembly in order to have more time to take care of father Dunn.  He wishes you, however, to first try to serve in both

capacities.  In case you find yourself unable to do so, you can be certain that your action is quite justified, and hence meets with the Guardian’s approval.

Assuring you again of his supplications for your protection and guidance, and with his cordial greetings to father Dunn and your dear self, as well as to all the friends in your centre,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and prized co-workers:

I am truly distressed to learn of the illness of so precious, so dearly-beloved a worker, so magnificent a pioneer in the field of Bahá’í service.  I hasten to assure you of my prayers at the Holy Shrines for the recovery, the welfare, the success and happiness of one who may be truly said to have set an unsurpassed example to the generations that will be called upon to serve the Cause of God throughout the whole world.  My gratefulness to you knows no bounds and my affection for you is beyond description.  The concourse on high are truly proud of your record your eminent and unforgettable accomplishments.

Shoghi

1 October 1935

Mrs Mariette Bolton,

Somerset House, 9 Martin Place, Sydney, NSW, Australia

Beloved Bahá’í sister,

Shoghi Effendi has just received your welcome letter of the 22nd of August with enclosures, and has read them all with deepest interest.  He is so pleased to hear from you after such a long time, and to learn that you and family are keeping well and are earnestly engaged in spreading the Message in Australia.  He wishes you complete and continued success in your efforts in this connection, and also in your material conditions which, he hopes, will daily improve, and will thus give you a still wider opportunity to work for the Cause in Sydney.

Regarding our distinguished pioneer friend Mr Dunn; the Guardian feels greatly worried about his health.  Many of the Sydney friends have already written that his general condition is causing great anxiety, and that every effort is being done to help him regain his forces.  It is hoped therefore, that with the generous assistance of the believers, and also through the unfailing help of Bahá’u’lláh, our dear friend will soon improve in health, and will be able to resume his important activities on behalf of the Cause.  In closing will you kindly assure him, and also dear Mrs Dunn, of Shoghi Effendi’s best wishes, and of his prayers on behalf of them both.  May the Almighty protect and guide them, and prolong their career of service in the Faith.

May I also assure you of the Guardian’s supplications for your husband, children and your dear self,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear co-workers:

I will pray that your most cherished desire for the advancement and glory of our Faith may be fully and speedily realized.  I am deeply touched by the sentiments your letter conveyed, and I am truly appreciative of the kindness and assistance you have extended to our distinguished and dearly beloved co-workers, Mr and Mrs Dunn.  The work they have achieved is a source of inspiration to me, and I will continue to pray for them from the depths of my heart.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

14 November 1935 [Ethel Blundell]

Dear Miss Blundell,

The Guardian has asked me to convey to you his best thanks for your letter of the 9th of October and specially for the enclosed sketch of your mother’s life which you have been requested by him to write for publication in the next issue of the “Bahá’í World”.  The account of your dear mother’s career of service is very comprehensively and beautifully written, indeed, and will, he feels certain, deeply touch every reader of the Biennial.  The New Zealand and Australian friends will particularly appreciate this touching account of the life of one of their earliest, most devoted and active pioneer co-workers, and will assuredly draw from it continued inspiration and vigour.

Thanking you again for your painstaking efforts for the preparation of this article, and with the renewed assurance of the Guardian’s continued supplications at the Holy Shrines for you and for all the Auckland believers,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

I have received the splendid photograph you have sent me, and I wish to assure you that I will myself place it in the manuscript of the “Bahá’í World” which I expect to receive from the States this winter.  Her pioneer services are imperishable.  The spirit she so powerfully displayed, the work she performed, the example she has set and the high standing she achieved future generations

will long remember and extol.  Rest assured and persevere along the path she has so nobly trodden.

Shoghi

11 March 1936 [Clara Dunn]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Very many thanks from the Guardian for your most kind and encouraging letter of the 7th February just received.  He feels so happy to learn that Father Dunn is keeping well, and that his health has much improved lately.  He hopes that through your care he will fully recuperate his forces, and will be quite fit again to resume his historic work for the Cause in Australia.  He wishes you to assure him once more of his supplications at the Holy Shrines on his behalf, that the Beloved may further prolong and enrich his noble career of Service to His Faith.

The Guardian is also praying for you, that you too may be given the necessary strength to carry on your labours for the Cause.

Will you, in closing, kindly convey his best wishes and greetings to the believers in Sydney, and specially to the distinguished members of the National Spiritual Assembly.  He is truly delighted at the steady progress the latter is making, and at the continued and successful efforts its members are exerting for the wider spread and firmer consolidation of the Faith throughout Australia and New Zealand.  May the Almighty ever keep, protect and guide them in the service of His Cause.

Again with deepest thanks from the Guardian for your beautiful and loving message, and with his warmest Bahá’í greetings to Father Dunn and your dear self,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dearly beloved co-worker,

I am so glad and relieved to learn of the improved health of our much-loved and illustrious friend, and co-worker, Mr Dunn.  Please assure him of my deep love, my continued prayers, my abiding gratitude for his past and present services.  He has, thanks God, tasted the first fruits of his devoted labours and historic services.  Future generations will reap the harvest and gather the rich fruits which his pioneer work in the Divine Vineyard will have produced.

Shoghi

6 May 1936 [Hyde Dunn]

Dear Mr Dunn,

Many thanks indeed from the Guardian for your most welcome and comforting message of April 3rd.  He is rejoiced to learn that your health has considerably improved, and that now you feel quite fit to carry on your pioneer work for the Cause in Australia.  He is deeply appreciative of the warm assistance extended to you by the friends, and feels confident that Bahá’u’lláh will abundantly reward them for all that they have done for you and for the Cause.

Regarding the plan you have proposed for the extension of the teaching work in Australia:  Shoghi Effendi has carefully considered your suggestions, and while he believes that your plan offers many possibilities, yet he thinks that owing to conditions both within and outside the Bahá’í world its realization is, if not quite impossible, at least fraught with considerable difficulties.  He sees, however, no objection to your putting the plan before the American NSA for their consideration and opinion.

What the Guardian feels it of vital importance for the friends to do is to teach the Cause directly and by means of imparting the Holy Words.  It is now too early to carry out any teaching activity along the lines you suggest.  Not only the number of the believers is too limited, and their resources confined, but the situation outside, both political and economic, is such as to seriously hinder the realization of any social scheme of the kind suggested in your letter.  With all good wishes and greetings from the Guardian to you, and also to

Mother Dunn and all the friends,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dearly beloved co-worker:

I am overjoyed to learn of your improved health and of the resumption of your glorious and historic work in the service of the Cause.  The friends, I am sure, are delighted and are filled with renewed hope and vigour.  The teaching work is of paramount importance these days.  It should be intensified and carried out systematically, constantly and energetically by all individual believers and organised Assemblies.  I will pray for you, for Mrs Dunn and for your valiant and dear co-workers from all my heart.

Shoghi

30 September 1936 [Australia and New Zealand]

Emily Axford

Beloved Bahá’í sister,

Your welcome letter dated August 17th has been received and read with deepest appreciation by the Guardian.

May I again express his sincere hope that your long-cherished desire to visit the Holy Shrines may be fulfilled very soon, and that through this pilgrimage you may obtain a renewed zeal and vigour, as well as a new vision of the task you are called upon to accomplish for the Faith in New Zealand.  In closing let me assure you and your fellow-workers in Auckland of his profound appreciation of your determination to press forward the work in the teaching field.  He is ardently praying for the guidance and success of your labours.

With warmest greetings,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

May the Beloved fulfil your heart’s desire, and enable you to promote effectively the sacred and manifold interests of our beloved and glorious Faith,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

7 December 1936

Dear …,

The Guardian is in receipt of your letter of the fifth November, and exceedingly regrets that, owing to certain family difficulties, you have found it necessary to cancel your trip to the Holy Land.  He is specially grieved to learn of the many cares and sorrows with which your daughter has been so sadly afflicted of late, and wishes me to hasten to convey to you his most loving sympathy, as well as the assurance of his prayers for the removal of the family troubles with which you are beset.  He fervently hopes that these afflictive trials confronting you and your beloved daughter will all serve to quicken your spiritual energies, and that the outcome of it all will be to open before you new horizons of service, and fresh fields for teaching the Message.  May Bahá’u’lláh give you patience to courageously withstand these tests, and full guidance to use them as means to more active, concentrated and selfless service to His Cause.  Do assure, therefore, your daughter not to feel disheartened, but to confidently endeavour to overcome her domestic sorrows and cares.

In closing may I express the Guardian’s hope that, as soon as your family problems are solved, you may be able to undertake your long-cherished pilgrimage to the Holy Shrines.  He is ardently praying for the materialization of your hopes and plans in this connection.

It is a pleasure to learn of the successful visit of Mr Schopflocher to Auckland, and of the warm welcome he has been accorded by you and the friends.  This is a true evidence of the strong ties of fellowship so closely uniting the friends throughout the world, and of the deep affection which the believers in New Zealand cherish for their fellow believers in every region and clime.

With renewed and warmest greetings to you and to the friends in Auckland,

Yours in the Guardian’s service,

H. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving and ardent prayers for the removal of every obstacle from your path and for the speedy realization of your earnest hopes,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

15 December 1936

Mrs Mariette Bolton,

Somerset House, 9 Martin Place, Sydney, Australia

Dear Mrs Bolton,

Our beloved Guardian is in receipt of your most welcome message, and wishes me to hasten to thank you for it, and to renew his appreciation of the efforts which you and your beloved husband are earnestly exerting for the spread and consolidation of the Faith in Australia.  He is profoundly grateful for the work you have so splendidly accomplished thus far and is eagerly awaiting to witness further evidences of the progress and success of your activities.  He is truly rejoiced to hear that the study group you have formed is regularly meeting at your home, and wishes me to urge you to make every possible effort to increase the number of the attendants and to deepen their knowledge of the fundamentals of the Faith so as to make them ready to accept it in the near future, and to intelligently and earnestly work for its spread.

What has most deeply rejoiced the Guardian is the news of the confirmation of Mr and Mrs Wilson, to whom he wishes you to kindly convey his hearty congratulations and his sincere good wishes.  It is his fervent hope that these two dear souls who have expressed their firm determination to join and actively serve in the growing army of Bahá’u’lláh’s devoted servants will daily gain in faith and spiritual vigour, and will make their very best to contribute as much as they can to the further development of the Faith in their centre.

It has been also a source of profoundest satisfaction to the Guardian to learn of the success that has attended Mr Schopflocher’s visit to Sydney, and of the cordial welcome that has been extended to him by you and the friends.  He hopes that your meeting with this outstanding and truly selfless servant of the Cause will serve to stimulate afresh your energies, and those so marvellously

displayed by your dear fellow-workers in Sydney.  He is ardently praying for you all at the Holy Shrines.

Regarding your suggestion relative to the establishment of a Bahá’í Summer School in Yerrinbool; Shoghi Effendi fully realizes the importance of your idea and deeply appreciates the offer you have made to the Sydney Assembly in this connection.  Before making any definite start, however, he wishes you to submit your plans to the NSA for their consideration and approval.

Assuring you once more of his best wishes and ardent prayers for you and your family,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker,

I am delighted with the news you give me.  Your splendid intention regarding the establishment of the First Summer School in Australia is highly praiseworthy.  May this historic work be accomplished and this magnificent plan materialize.  I will pray for you from the depths of my heart that you may attain to your heart’s dearest wish.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

27 January 1937

Mrs Mariette Bolton,

Somerset House, 9 Martin Place, Sydney, NSW, Australia

Dear Mrs Bolton,

Our well-beloved and much esteemed Bahá’í brother Mr Fred Schopflocher has just arrived in the Holy Land and has duly presented the message which you had asked him to deliver to the Guardian, as well as your kind gift of a pin tray, for both of which he wishes me to convey to you his loving appreciation and gratitude.

He very deeply values indeed the spirit that has prompted you to offer him such a nice present, and he wishes me to assure you that he will keep it as a dear souvenir from you.

With the renewed expression of his deep appreciation of your warm sentiments, and with his hearty greetings to you and family,

Yours in the Guardian’s service,

H. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your gift which I shall place on your behalf in the Mansion of Bahá’u’lláh at Bahjí in the close vicinity of His Shrine and wishing you success from all my heart.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

27 January 1937 [Clara and Hyde Dunn]

Beloved Bahá’í pioneers,

Our much loved brother Mr Fred Schopflocher has duly delivered to the Guardian your welcome messages of the 18th and 19th November, and I wish to hasten to thank you on his behalf for the many expressions of love, devotion and loyalty which you had been moved to convey to him.  Your kind and assuring words have sunk deeply into his heart and brought wonderful refreshment of spirit to him.  He is daily praying for you, and for the loved ones in Australia and New Zealand, that the confirmations of Bahá’u’lláh may continue to be showered upon you, and may thus enable you to attain your highest destiny in the path of service to His Cause.

Mr Schopflocher’s report of his visit to the centers in Australia has been truly gratifying, and the Guardian’s heart has been immensely cheered by the good news of the wonderful progress of the Cause it conveyed.  Knowing full well how unique and exemplary is the share which you both are contributing to such an advancement, he feels the urge to renew to you the expression of his abiding appreciation and loving gratitude, and to assure you of his fervent and continued supplications for the expansion and success of your activities.  How happy indeed you must be to witness the rich harvest which your long and arduous labours have brought forth.  The Beloved is assuredly well pleased with what you have so brilliantly accomplished, and are still busily engaged in accomplishing for His Faith.  Be cheerful and confident, therefore, and whole-heartedly persevere in your highly-meritorious and historic task.

With warmest Bahá’í greetings,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dearest co-workers,

I am overjoyed to hear from you.  Often you are in my thoughts and prayers, and my heart smiles with gladness and gratitude when I recall your services, your devotion, your perseverance, your great love for this most glorious Cause.  I will continue to pray for your good health, happiness and success.  May Bahá’u’lláh, Whose Cause you have served and are still serving with such exemplary faith

and fidelity, fulfil your wishes, and enable you to enrich the noble record of your unforgettable achievements,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

17 March 1937 [Annie Miller]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

I am directed by the Guardian to express his appreciation of your letter of the third written in the name of the friends in Perth, and to ask you to kindly transmit to each and all of them the expression of his deepest thanks for the sentiments they had been moved to convey to him on the occasion of the forthcoming Feast of Naw-Rúz.  He is deeply touched indeed by the assurances of love and devotion you had given him, and fully reciprocates your good wishes and greetings.  His hope is that this new Bahá’í Year we are about to enter will be marked all through by a united and determined effort of the believers in your centre, and in other Bahá’í localities in Australia as well, for the extension of the teaching work.  He is fervently entreating Bahá’u’lláh for the guidance and success of your endeavours to this end.  Be confidant, therefore, and persevere.

I wish, in closing, to ensure you in particular of the Guardian’s supplications for the removal of the obstacles facing the believers in Perth in connection with their representation at the Annual Convention of the Australian friends in Sydney.  He hopes that the financial position of the members will gradually improve, and will permit them to actively participate in the deliberations and discussions that will be conducted during that important national gathering.

Again let me assure you, and your dear fellow-believers in Perth of his keen appreciation and abiding gratitude for your self-sacrificing labours for the Cause in Australia, and with renewed and warmest Naw-Rúz greetings to you all,

Yours ever in His service,

H. Rabbani

May the almighty spirit and power of Bahá’u’lláh ever sustain you and surround you, and enable you and your dear co-workers to promote, proclaim and establish the principles and teachings of this most glorious Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

26 April 1937 [Perth Spiritual Assembly]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

I am charged by our beloved Guardian to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 8th April, written on behalf of the Bahá’ís of Perth, conveying to him their greetings and congratulations on the occasion of his marriage.

He wishes me to ask you to kindly transmit his thanks and appreciation to them for their beautiful and most assuring message.  He indeed highly values their sentiments, and their spontaneous and warm response to this union which has conferred such a great honour on the believers throughout the West.

It is the Guardian’s hope that in return for all these honours and bounties the friends will unanimously arise to serve the Cause, and will awaken to the full sense of their responsibilities and obligations.  He is praying for you, and for all our dear friends in Australia and New Zealand that you may receive an ever-increasing measure of guidance and success in your endeavours in His Path.

May I in closing express the Guardian’s thanks for the beautiful gift which your Assembly has kindly presented to him.  He will certainly keep it as a token of your great love and devotion to the Cause.

Yours ever in His service,

H. Rabbani

With the assurance of my loving prayers for your spiritual advancement and success,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

27 April 1937 [Mariette Bolton]

DELIGHTED HEARTFELT CONGRATULATIONS ASSURE ATTENDANTS SUMMER SCHOOL ARDENT LOVING PRAYERS

30 April 1937 [National Convention, Australia and New Zealand]

IMMENSELY APPRECIATE MAGNIFICENT SPIRIT ANIMATING CONVENTION.  SUPPLICATE RICHEST BLESSINGS DELIBERATIONS.  LOVE SHOGHI

18 May 1937 [Hyde Dunn]

Dear Mr Dunn,

The Guardian has received your message of last April, and his heart has been most profoundly touched by the sentiments of love, loyalty and devotion you had been moved to convey to him on the occasion of his marriage.  He highly prizes indeed your words, and deeply appreciates the assurances you have given him.  His fervent hope is that through this union of East and West the consciousness of all the believers will be so quickened as to spur them on to redouble their efforts for the promulgation of our beloved Cause.  The

Guardian is most satisfied with the conditions of the Faith in Australia and New Zealand, and cherishes the highest hopes for the future of that Community.  Though your numbers are yet small and your material resources restricted, you should nevertheless rejoice at the realization that the Cause in these far-off lands has at last been firmly and permanently established, that with the passing of every year, nay of every month, some definite progress is achieved, and that despite the forces of opposition, both from within and outside it, your community is forging ahead, slowly but steadily, confident in the divine confirmations and guidance of Bahá’u’lláh.

The Guardian is particularly rejoiced at the news of the formation of the first Australian Bahá’í Summer School at Yerrinbool—which step is a clear evidence that your community is alive and is progressing quite satisfactorily.  He would urge the friends, each and all, to help by every means in their power, to further the interests of that institution which, if maintained and developed, can be of invaluable teaching help to the Cause.

With the assurance of the Guardian’s prayers on your behalf and on behalf of Mother Dunn, and for the confirmation of Mr Hearne.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless your efforts, guide your steps, enable you to still further ennoble the record of your unique and superb services, and aid you to realise your highest wishes in the service of His glorious Faith.

Gratefully and affectionately,

Shoghi

28 July 1937 [Stanley Bolton]

Mr S. W. Bolton, Somerset House, 9 Martin Place, Sydney, NSW, Australia

Dear Mr Bolton,

Your welcome letter of June 11th with the enclosed report of the Yerrinbool Bahá’í Summer School, as well as the photographs of the same sent under separate cover, have all duly reached the Guardian and have imparted a tremendous joy to his heart.

He is rejoiced beyond words to know of the great success that has attended this first session of your Summer School, and he wishes me to convey to you, to the attendants, and particularly to the members of the Yerrinbool Summer School Committee his hearty congratulations for the valuable share you have each contributed towards the formation and effective functioning of this national institution of the Cause in those far-off lands.  It is his fervent hope, and his heart’s ardent prayer that you may continue extending every support to this first Bahá’í Summer School in Australia and New Zealand, so that it

may develop and flourish and become a center of intense and nation-wide teaching activity throughout that land.  The friends should realize that it is their responsibility to maintain, nay assist in continually developing the scope of this vital national enterprise.  The beginning that has been made is truly splendid and augurs well for the future of your labours for the prosecution of this task.

With most loving greetings to Mrs Bolton, children and your dear self,

Sincerely and gratefully in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

I am so cheered and heartened by your most welcome message.  I feel deeply grateful to, and proud of, you and your valiant co-workers for this notable and historic step you have taken.  Future generations will befittingly extol the work you have so nobly and splendidly initiated.  I wish to congratulate you from the very depths of my heart.

Affectionately and gratefully,

Shoghi

8 November 1937 [Emily Axford]

Dear Mrs Axford,

Many thanks for your letter of September 16th addressed to our beloved Guardian.  He is most pleased indeed to hear of Miss Hollaway’s interest in the Cause and appreciates keenly your efforts for bringing about her full confirmation in the Faith.  He is, at your suggestion, writing her directly and giving her the addresses of some individuals and centres in South Africa.  He hopes that through contact with the friends her interest in the Teachings will be considerably increased and she will be stimulated to help in spreading their knowledge throughout South Africa.

The Guardian wishes you to keep in closest touch with her through correspondence, and to send her suitable literature on the Cause, and to endeavour to make her join actively the Faith.

Again with many thanks for introducing this lady who indeed seems to be a most promising worker, and with loving greetings to all the friends in Auckland,

Yours ever in His service,

H. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless you and aid you to surmount all obstacles that may stand in your path, and aid you to lend a fresh impetus to the work that has been so splendidly initiated.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

17 November 1937 [Nellie French]

Dear Mrs French

The Guardian is most sorry to have been so late in thanking you for your letters of August 30th and September 10th sent from Australia.  The delay has been unavoidable owing to his absence from the Holy Land during the summer months.

He hopes this letter will find you well, and refreshed from your wonderful visit to the friends in Australia and New Zealand.  What a privilege indeed to be able to visit these far-off centres of the Cause, to encourage and stimulate those believers who are so remote from the chief Bahá’í countries, whether in the East or the West, and to spread the Message in virgin and distant lands.  The Guardian has every hope that through this visit the bonds of fellowship and cooperation between the Australian and American believers will be considerably cemented, and the way paved for a deeper understanding and a more effective application of the Administrative Order in that far-off continent.

It was a matter of profound grief to the Guardian to know of the withdrawal from the Cause of Mr … He will pray for him, that his eyes may be opened and illumined, and that he may realize the full gravity of his action and may sincerely repent for it.

Under the circumstances, however, his name should be removed from the list of editors in the “Bahá’í World”, and substituted by that of the secretary of the Australian NSA, Miss Hilda H. Brooks of Adelaide, who is an outstanding Bahá’í teacher and administrator.

With loving greetings,

Yours in the Cause,

H. Rabbani

Dear and prized co-worker:

I am so pleased to learn of the success that has attended your trip to Australia.  Your successive journeys to this and other far-off lands are of immense value, and have served to forge new links and to reinforce the ties that already bind the Bahá’í communities to one another.  I am deeply grateful to you, and will continue to pray most fervently on your behalf.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

6 January 1938 [Yerrinbool Summer School]

CONVEY SUMMER SCHOOL ATTENDANTS HEARTY CONGRATULATIONS LOVING FERVENT PRAYERS SUCCESS DELIBERATIONS.  SHOGHI

27 May 1938 [Kitty Carpenter]

Dear Miss Carpenter,

The Guardian is in receipt of your letter of the 19th, and is indeed pleased to know that your visit to Cairo has been so happy and successful, and that the friends have extended to you such a warm hospitality all through your stay.

He hopes this letter will find you well, and enjoying your visit to your relatives and fellow-believers in England.

With loving remembrances, and renewed thanks for your message,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

May the Beloved fulfil your heart’s desire in the service of His Faith, and enable you to promote effectively the interests of its new-born institutions.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

17 June 1938 [Annie Miller]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

I am directed by our beloved Guardian to express his loving thanks for the message of sympathy, dated May 15th, which you had written him on behalf of the Bahá’ís of Perth, conveying your condolences on the occasion of the passing of the Holy Mother, Munírih Khánum.

He is moved to realize how keenly you all have felt her loss, but surely the thought that she has at last been liberated from the sufferings and limitations of this world affords deepest comfort to your grief-stricken hearts.  How happy she must be now in this eternal reunion with her loved ones, and with our beloved Master.  No matter how profound our sorrow, we should therefore turn our hearts to Bahá’u’lláh in the hope that He may transmute our grief into an abiding and peaceful joy, whereby we may serve His Cause with added energy, and renewed and uttermost consecration.

In closing may I convey to you the Guardian’s loving appreciation of the kind message you sent him through Miss Kitty Carpenter.  Her stay in the Holy Land was short, but it is hoped, that the experiences she has gathered during those few days, will long serve to sustain and stimulate her energies in service to the Cause in New Zealand.

With renewed and loving thanks for your message, and with warmest greetings to all the friends in Perth,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

With the assurance of my deep and abiding appreciation of the noble sentiments of sympathy and loyalty you have expressed, and of my loving, constant and fervent prayers for the full and speedy realization of your dearest hopes for the advancement of His Faith,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

20 December 1938 [Emily Axford]

Mrs E Axford

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Your very cordial message of the 27th November addressed to our beloved Guardian has duly reached him, and he has noted with keen appreciation indeed the desire you had expressed of visiting the Holy Shrines on your way back to New Zealand.

As you must have surely read in the newspapers however the general situation in Palestine is at present so gravely disturbed as to make it quite impossible for you to undertake this trip in the next few months, and in view of this the Guardian would advise that you postpone your visit until the November of next year, by which time, it is hoped, the situation throughout the country will have sufficiently improved to permit you to undertake this long-cherished pilgrimage.  The Guardian, needless to say, would be also most delighted to meet you, and to hear from you directly of the news of the Cause in New Zealand, and to discuss certain matters which the NSA has asked you to present to him for his instructions.

Regarding your question whether there is any special ceremony which the believers should perform when they wish to “name” a baby; the teachings do not provide for any ceremony whatever on such occasions.  We have no “baptismal service” in the Cause, such as the Christians have.  There would be no objection, however, for the friends to come together on such happy occasions, provided they do not hold an official public ceremony, and provided also they strictly avoid uniformity and rigidity in all such practices.  No rule whatsoever that would tend to be rigid and uniform should be allowed in such secondary matters, particularly as there are no specific instructions in the Teachings regarding them.

With the warmest good wishes of the Guardian to you and to the friends, and assuring you again of his hearty welcome to visit the Holy Shrines during next autumn, and with greetings,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

I shall indeed grieve if the situation in Palestine should prevent our meeting and prevent your pilgrimage to the Holy Shrines.  I pray that this may not be the case.  I am so eager to meet you, and express in person my deep and abiding sense of appreciation of the splendid and historic services you have rendered.  I will continue to pray for you from the depths of my heart.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

January 1939 [Yerrinbool Summer School]

ASSURE ATTENDANTS SUMMER SCHOOL SPECIAL PRAYERS SIGNAL SUCCESS URGE INTENSELY STUDY TEACHINGS DEEPEN SPIRIT BAHAI FELLOWSHIP EXTEND SCOPE ACTIVITIES SHOGHI

9 January 1939

Dear Mother Dunn,

Your message of November 23rd addressed to our beloved Guardian was indeed most welcome, and its perusal truly refreshing and encouraging.  It is always a source of deepest gratification to him indeed to hear from you and from our far-off believers in Australia and New Zealand, and to realize, that in spite of the serious handicaps under which you are labouring, your Community is steadily forging ahead, and is increasing in numbers and growing in unity and in consecration to the Service of the Cause.  He cherishes the brightest hopes for the future of your activities, and though these be at present much circumscribed in view of your limited numbers and resources, you should not feel discouraged, but look at the years ahead with absolute, nay ever-deepening confidence, and indomitable courage.

Martha’s visit, the Guardian hopes, will prove once more the signal for a further intensification of your teaching activities, and he is eagerly awaiting to hear of the news of the triumphs she will be winning for the Faith in your Continent.  He is confident that the friends will spare no effort to make her journey pleasant and successful, and will avail themselves of the opportunity of her presence in their midst to extend the scope and consolidate the foundations of their teaching work.

The Guardian was most deeply interested and pleased to read Miss Dawe’s letter addressed to you and Father Dunn on her way back from the Holy Land

last winter.  He is glad to know how much this visit to the Holy Shrines has meant to her, and trusts that the experiences she was able to gather during that memorable pilgrimage will ever sustain and guide her in her activities for the Faith in Australia.  She is indeed an example of faith and devotion, and is endowed with such gifts of heart and mind as will surely prove an asset to the Cause in that Continent.

Kindly assure her of the Guardian’s continued prayers for her protection and guidance, and assuring you too of his supplications for the health and welfare of Father Dunn and your own dear self,

Yours ever in His service,

H. Rabbani

With the renewed assurance of my loving prayers for you and for my dearly-loved, distinguished and unforgettable co-worker and brother, who together with you, has done so much, and worked so devotedly and magnificently for the promotion of our beloved Faith,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

25 January 1939 [Martha Root]

Dear Miss Root,

Your most welcome letters of October 6th, December 16th, 19th with their enclosures have all been duly received and their contents read with close attention and profoundest appreciation by our beloved Guardian.

The latest typewritten report of your teaching travels throughout India has, at his direction, been translated and published in the Persian newsletter of the Haifa Assembly for the benefit of the friends in the East who, as you certainly realise, are always eager to hear of the news of your activities, and will be thrilled to know of the splendid work you have accomplished during the longest journey you have ever undertaken to India and Burma.  Now that your India itinerary has drawn to a happy and successful close you can look with pride and a feeling of deep satisfaction over the rich record of service you have rendered the Faith during this past year.  What you have accomplished is all the more remarkable, and indeed miraculous, considering your poor health, and the hardships and other trying circumstances attending your journey.  The Indian believers are all unanimous in expressing their gratitude and their feelings of unbounded admiration for the services you have rendered in their midst—as a result of which, they all hope, the teaching work will now make rapid progress in both India and Burma.

The Guardian has already cabled you expressing his hope that your visit to Australia may likewise prove a great success, and serve to lend a fresh impetus

to the growth and further expansion of the Faith in that continent.  He has also cabled the secretary of the Australian NSA Miss Hilda Brooks, informing her of your arrival, and he is certain the friends must have accorded you a most hearty and befitting welcome.

Assuring you once more of his prayers for your health and protection, and for the confirmation of your services to the Cause,

Yours ever in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dearest Martha,

India is astir with praise and admiration for you.  What you have achieved in that land is truly historic and marvellous.  Australia is now the field that claims your magnificent energy and high devotion.  I have already cabled the friends in that continent to accord you befitting welcome.  Take good care of your health, and persevere in your incomparable services,

Affectionately,

Shoghi

14 February 1939 [Martha Root]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Your deeply appreciated letters of the 1st and 6th January have been received, and read with keenest interest and deepest satisfaction by our beloved Guardian.

He was deeply touched and rejoiced to know of the farewell meetings which the friends had arranged on the occasion of your sailing from Bombay, and to realize the profound effect which your historic visit to India had left on the hearts of every one of the believers.  This high position which you have come to occupy in their affections is certainly well deserved and rightly won.  For the seeds you have so ably and devotedly planted in almost every important part of that country, during this one year of ceaseless and intense teaching work, constitute a record of service of unparalleled magnitude in the history of the Faith in that land.

The Guardian hopes you will one day be able to re-visit India, and witness the rich harvest which your untiring efforts have brought forth.  For the present, he would advise that, soon after the termination of your teaching tour throughout Australia and New Zealand this coming June, you should return to the United States, and extend your stay there, and later on visit Central and South America, and assist in extending the teaching campaign in these Central and South American Republics, where the Teaching work is fast beginning to develop and advance.  The opening up of these Latin American countries, as you undoubtedly know, constitute one of the chief and most difficult objectives of the Seven-Year Plan.  Your invaluable co-operation in

this Inter-American campaign of teaching would therefore be received with universal welcome by the believers, and will greatly encourage and stimulate them to carry this heavy task to successful completion.

Regarding your suggestion for the establishment of a Bahá’í School in Karachi, the Guardian would advise that whenever you find a favourable opportunity to approach the American believers regarding this matter you should do so, without, however, bringing any pressure to bear upon them to contribute the funds required for the erection of such an Institution.

The Guardian was deeply grieved to hear of the heavy losses inflicted on our highly esteemed and distinguished brother Siyyid Mustapha Roumie during the recent riots in Mandalay.  He wishes you to convey to him his sympathy, as well as his approval of his wish to sell part of the shops, in view of his strained material conditions which render such step most necessary indeed.

The Guardian has noted with deep gratitude the love and assistance which Mr F. … has so kindly extended to you during your stay in Calcutta, and wishes you to convey to him his thanks and his high sense of admiration for his valuable and deeply appreciated services.

Assuring you also of his prayers for your health and protection, and for your guidance in all your undertakings.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dearest Martha,

How proud I am of your work, and how thankful for your labours!  You are so precious to us and to the Cause.  Take the utmost care of yourself, and be always happy and confident that you are fulfilling the will of Bahá’u’lláh and promoting in an exemplary manner, the interest of His glorious Faith,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

15 February 1939 [Sydney Spiritual Assembly]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Your welcome letter of the 19th December addressed to our beloved Guardian, introducing Mrs E. E. Davis of Sydney, who is now on a world tour and is planning to visit Palestine, has been received, and its contents read with deep appreciation by him.

He wishes you to assure Mrs Davis that she would be most welcome to visit the Holy Shrines in Haifa and Bahjí.  He himself, however, will be away from the country, and therefore deeply regrets not to be able to meet her when she arrives.  The Guardian nevertheless hopes, and indeed will pray that Mrs Davis’ contact with these Holy Shrines of the Faith may result in further deepening her interest in the Cause, and stimulate her, upon her return home, to extend

full and increasing support to the friends in Sydney, in both their teaching and administrative activities.

Before closing I wish to take this opportunity of conveying to you, and through you to your fellow-members in the Sydney Assembly the expression of the Guardian’s profound and abiding appreciation of your devoted labours on behalf of the Cause.  His prayers for the guidance and confirmation of your efforts will be ardently and humbly offered to Bahá’u’lláh.  May His love ever sustain and strengthen you in your highly-meritorious services to His Faith.

Yours most sincerely,

H. Rabbani

Assuring you of my special prayers for you in the service of our beloved Faith, and for the realization of your dearest hopes for its promotion,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

17 March 1939 [Martha Root]

Dear Miss Root,

The Guardian has received and read with deepest pleasure your letters dated February 11th and 26th with the many enclosures, and feels inexpressibly happy to know of the very cordial and befitting welcome extended to you by the friends upon your arrival in Australia, and of the many opportunities you have had of contacting leading figures in the various towns you have visited.  The many messages you were able to broadcast, particularly that on Ṭáhirih, which was so warmly received and appreciated by the Director of Broadcasting of all South Australia, surely cannot fail to awaken interest in the Cause, and might even lead many listeners to seriously investigate and study the teachings, and possibly later on apply for full membership in the community.  Anyhow, you have certainly spared no effort to sow the seeds, and time alone will prove how fertile has been the soil on which they have fallen.

Regarding Queen Marie’s Will, which is reported to contain references to the Cause, the Guardian has received no information whatever to such effect, but has, following your letter, written both Miss Jack and Mrs Lynch, and asked them to secure, by whatever means possible, copies of the Bucharest paper which is stated to contain the references in question.  He has neither received any communication from the Queen, and would therefore wish you to carefully ascertain the truth of the reports, and let him know of any information you receive, as soon as possible.

Concerning your teaching itinerary; the Guardian wishes me to stress again the necessity of you avoiding excessive work and of safeguarding your health, and also of adhering to your plan, which he has already approved, to return to the United States in time for the Geyserville Summer-School, and to spend

the winter in the southern states, or preferably, if possible, in Central America where the teaching work is not making steady progress, and is in need of any support it can receive from visiting Bahá’ís.

In view of the urgency, and increasing requirements of the teaching program set forth by the Seven-Year Plan, the Guardian would advise that on your return to the States next June you should devote all your energies to the nation-wide and unprecedented campaign of teaching activity, which is now gradually extending all over the American Continent from Alaska to the North, down to the Republic of Chile in the South, putting at the service of this Inter-American teaching campaign all those talents and qualities which you have acquired during your many years of experience in the field of pioneer teaching.

Assuring you again of his abiding gratitude for your indefatigable services, and also with the assurance of his special prayers on behalf of dear Mrs Latimer,

Yours ever sincerely,

H. Rabbani

Dearest Martha,

I am so glad to learn that you are feeling better and that your visit to Australia is proving itself to be so promising and fruitful.  You are often in my thoughts and prayers in these days when you are displaying such superhuman energy in such a far-off land and are enriching so magnificently the record of your glorious services to the Cause.  May the Beloved protect and guide you in your exemplary endeavours,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

20 March 1939 [Emily Axford]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

I am directed by our beloved Guardian to acknowledge the receipt of your letter dated February 25th, informing him of the date of your departure from England, and your inability to defer your visit to Haifa till next November.  He regrets indeed that you should find it impossible to extend your stay in Europe and come to Palestine in autumn, as the situation here is now so tense and dangerous that there seems very little hope of any real amelioration in security conditions to take place by next May.  General conditions throughout the country are, at present, even worse than a month ago, and the tension is daily increasing.

In case, however, security is re-established by the time you reach Port Said, you would be welcome to visit the Shrines, but the Guardian would be still away.

Wishing you again a successful and happy return home, and with the renewed assurances of the Guardian’s prayers for your welfare, protection and guidance,

Yours most sincerely,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

I deeply regret that the situation in Palestine has not yet improved as I realize how eager you are to visit the Holy Shrines.  If however when you reach Port-Said it will at all be possible for you to visit the Shrine, you will be most welcome, I assure you.  May the Almighty fulfil the dearest hope of your heart.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

22 March 1939 [Auckland Spiritual Assembly]

Dear Bahá’í brothers and sisters,

The Guardian wishes me to gratefully acknowledge the receipt of your card conveying to him your Assembly’s greetings for Naw-Rúz, and to assure you how deeply he feels appreciative of the renewed expressions of loving devotion which you had felt prompted to transmit to him on such a happy and blessed occasion.

He immeasurably values indeed your sentiments, and wishes me to take this opportunity of assuring your Assembly, and all the members of the Auckland Bahá’í Community, of his ardent prayers for the further extension of the Faith, and its firmer consolidation in your centre, and for the spiritual advancement and welfare of each and every member of your group.  May this new Bahá’í Year we have just entered witness a fresh intensification of the spirit of service in the heart of each one of you, and lead you to scale still nobler heights of service and sacrifice in your stewardship to the Cause.

Reciprocating your kind greetings, and with all good wishes for a happy Naw-Rúz,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

25 March 1939

Beloved Father Dunn,

Your sweet and most assuring message of the 2nd February has duly reached our beloved Guardian, and his heart was inexpressibly gladdened by its perusal, and at the joyful tidings of the slow yet steady progress of the Cause in Sydney and in the rest of Australia.  How happy and grateful indeed you must feel to have lived until this day, and to have witnessed the glorious harvest which, after many years of tireless and painstaking effort, it has been your reward and

your incomparable privilege to gather and offer to the Faith in such a remote yet so highly-promising Continent.  Although, in view of your advanced age and its attending ailments and disabilities, you feel no longer able to take as active a share as you wish in the activities of the Cause, yet your very presence is, in itself, such a valuable asset to the Australian Bahá’í Community as will surely compensate for any particular act of service, however meritorious, which you may be able to render, whether in the teaching or the administrative fields of Bahá’í activity.

The Guardian, therefore, would urge you above all to preserve your health, and to avoid any activity that might prove too strenuous and fatiguing, even though this may necessitate a considerable curtailment in your general work for the Cause.

He keenly and lovingly appreciates the care and consideration you have been shown by the believers in this respect, and feels particularly grateful to Mr Rupert Hearne and other friends who have proved so helpful to you during your illness.  He will surely remember them all in his prayers, entreating the Beloved to abundantly reward them for their services and to ever strengthen and guide their forces in service to His Cause.

Concerning your question regarding the identity of Abraham and Zoroaster; in the light of a statement from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, in which he says that Zoroaster came to Palestine and met the Hebrew prophets, one can rightly infer that Zoroaster was a different historical person than Abraham, and that the two, therefore, were not identical.

With the Guardian’s warmest love and greetings to you and to dear Mother Dunn.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and prized co-worker,

My heart rejoices whenever I hear from you.  How proud and thankful I feel when I think of you and your services!  Future generations will appraise your accomplishments and extol the spirit that has prompted you in your historic labours.  Take the utmost care of your dear self, and be always assured that you are in my thoughts and prayers.

Affectionately,

Shoghi

19 April 1939

Mrs Mariette Bolton, 9 Martin Place, Sydney.

Dear Mrs Bolton,

Many thanks indeed for your very kind and welcome communication of March 26th addressed to our beloved Guardian, and for the accompanying

clippings from the “Sydney Morning Herald” regarding Martha’s visit, which he was truly delighted to read.

He feels so deeply thankful for the cordial welcome you have all accorded Miss Root all through her stay in Sydney, and she too, has expressed her gratitude in her last letter to the Guardian, telling him of the love and consideration she was shown by every one of the friends, and in particular by Mr Bolton and yourself.  Her very presence, her living example of selfless and tireless effort, her absolute self-effacement and resignation to the Divine will, and her whole-hearted consecration to the service of the Cause must have surely inspired and refreshed you, and filled you with added determination to labour for the extension of the Faith in Australia.

The Guardian was also inexpressibly delighted at the news of the success of the Summer-School at Yerrinbool, and fervently prays that this institution, which is still so young and so restricted in its scope and influence, may with the passing of each year gain in attendance and receive the increasing support, interest, and attention of the entire community of the Australian and New Zealand believers.

I take this opportunity of renewing to you, as well as to Dr Bolton, the assurance of his prayers on behalf of you both, and also for the protection, guidance and confirmation of your dear children.

With the season’s warmest greetings to you and to all the Sydney believers,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

I am so pleased and grateful to learn of the activities in which you are engaged, and of the success attending your efforts.  I feel truly proud of the spirit that so marvellously animates you and your dear husband.  You are both in my thoughts and prayers, and I will continue to pray for you from the depths of my heart,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

2 June 1939

Dear Father and Mother Dunn,

It is with deepest pleasure that I am forwarding to your address by separate mail a copy of the recently-published general communication addressed by our beloved Guardian to the American believers entitled “The Advent of Divine Justice”, which he wishes you to accept as a gift from him in token of his abiding appreciation of your invaluable, long-standing and indeed historic services to the Cause in the field of pioneer teaching.

In reading this epistle, which has been rightly described as the Bahá’í Charter of teaching, you will note that the Guardian has referred, briefly

but in terms of highest praise, to the distinguished record of your teaching accomplishments during the well-nigh two decades that have elapsed since the ascension of our beloved Master ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and it is only fitting therefore, that in recognition of these unique services you have rendered he should present you himself with a copy of that epistle which more than any other document so far issued from his pen extolls the teaching accomplishments of the American believers, and discloses before them a teaching vista of such dazzling splendour as should challenge their resources and guide their energies for many more years yet to come.

The tribute so abundantly and yet so deservedly paid by the Guardian in this unique epistle to your magnificent teaching services is assuredly destined to transmit to future Bahá’í generations, and in particular to the Bahá’í teachers and pioneers of succeeding centuries, such measure of inspiration and such example of true pioneer service as cannot but inspire and guide them to follow in your footsteps and emulate your noble example.

With affectionate greetings to you both,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

3 August 1939

Mr and Mrs S. W. Bolton, c/- Palmer School of Chiropractic, Davenport, Iowa, USA

Dear Mr and Mrs Bolton,

Your very cordial letters of the 18th June were received, and it made our beloved Guardian truly happy to know that you have safely reached the United States, and are availing yourselves of the opportunity of your visit to California to attend the Bahá’í Summer School at Geyserville.  Your contact with the believers in such happy and pleasant surroundings, and on such an important occasion, cannot surely but vividly impress you, and deepen in you the desire to become of increasing service to the Faith upon your return home.  The Guardian was also much pleased to know of your intention to visit Canada, and trusts that this journey will give you some opportunity of teaching the Cause there, and particularly in the newly-opened provinces throughout that Dominion.

Before starting on your journey to the Holy Land, he would advise you, if at all feasible, to visit our Cairo believers, who would be indeed delighted to meet you, and hear directly of the news of the progress of the Faith in far-off Australia.

May I before closing express the hope that by the time you expect to reach Port Said during October next, the general situation throughout Palestine will

have sufficiently improved to permit you enter the country, and fulfil your long and eagerly-cherished desire of visiting the Holy Shrines.

With renewed and warmest good wishes to you both, and with cordial greetings,

Yours very sincerely,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers:

How deeply I appreciate your marvellous services to the Faith, you who are so young in faith, yet so fervent in zeal and vigorous in your determination.  I do hope from all my heart that you will be able to visit the Holy Shrines though I myself will very probably be absent unavoidably and unable to meet you.  You are I assure you close and dear to my heart, and I pray that you may on your return to Australia be graciously assisted to render still greater services to our beloved Faith.  May the Beloved sustain and guide you always in your magnificent activities and historic services,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

22 August 1939 [Mariette Bolton]

Mrs M. G. Bolton c/- Mrs Mary Bolton, Stathroy, Ontario, Canada

Dear Mrs Bolton,

Your delightful message of the 12th July reporting on your teaching visits to various centers in the States and Canada was received, and together with its enclosures, read with considerable interest and satisfaction by our beloved Guardian.

The account of your trip to Edmonton, and of the fine publicity you were able to make through the local press, as evidenced by the clippings you had enclosed, and specially your contact with Mr and Mrs Byrne, the technical adviser to the premier of Alberta Mr Aberhart, was all very gratifying indeed, and the Guardian has every hope that as a result of it all the teaching work in that locality will receive a fresh and unprecedented stimulus, and that with the untiring help of our precious sister Miss Doris Skinner, who is at present working in that region, splendid results will soon be accomplished leading to the gradual formation of an Assembly in Edmonton.

Also it was a real pleasure to the Guardian to hear of your visit to Winnipeg and to know of the fine work dear Mr Estall is doing there.  He too hopes that this centre, so recently started, will steadily develop, and before long we will have an Assembly established in that locality.

With renewed and warmest appreciation of the teaching services you have been so devotedly engaged in rendering the Faith throughout your journeys in Canada and the States, and with cordial love and Bahá’í greetings to your dear self and Mr Bolton.

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

May the Beloved of our hearts guide, sustain and cheer you in your notable services rendered over so wide a field, and may He aid you to realize your dearest hopes in His service,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

28 October 1939

Mr and Mrs Stanley Bolton, 9 Martin Place, Sydney, NSW, Australia

Dear Mr and Mrs Bolton,

Your loving messages of the 30th September have safely arrived, and their contents noted with feelings of deepest gratitude by our beloved Guardian.  He too, indeed, profoundly regrets that circumstances should have prevented you from carrying out your hearts’ earnest and long-cherished desire of visiting the Holy Shrines, and can profoundly realize how utterly disappointed you both feel over such a privation.  But it is assuredly a comfort to know that your extensive trip throughout the United States and Canada has been of such deep spiritual experience to you, and has also proved to be of such inspiration and encouragement to the friends in these countries as cannot but compensate, in however small a measure, for the sorrows and disappointment you now feel at having been unable to visit the Holy Land.

The Guardian nevertheless hopes and indeed will fervently pray that you may one day be given the opportunity of undertaking this pilgrimage, and thus fulfil this dear wish of your hearts.

With the renewed expression of his best wishes, and the assurances of his prayers for your welfare and protection, and the steady extension of the field of your services to the Faith in Australia.

Yours very sincerely,

H. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers:

I deeply regret your inability to visit the Holy Shrines on your return to Australia after such a splendid and fruitful association and contact with the American believers.  I will specially pray for you both when I lay, on your behalf, my head on the Sacred Threshold, and, will supplicate for you the richest blessings and the unfailing protection and guidance of Bahá’u’lláh in your

incessant, your valued and devoted labours for His Cause.  Rest assured and persevere in your task,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

10 January 1940 [Stanley W. Bolton]

DELIGHTED FERVENTLY PRAYING EVER INCREASING SUCCESS GUIDANCE INFANT VITAL INSTITUTION

17 October 1940 [Maysie Almond]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

The Guardian was most delighted to receive your letter dated May 3rd, and to know of the confirmation of three ardent young women believers in Hobart, Tasmania.  He wishes you to kindly convey to these dear friends his satisfaction at the manner in which they have arisen to embrace and serve the Cause, and to assure them each of a most hearty welcome into the Community.

He will pray on their behalf that Bahá’u’lláh may continue to shower upon them His sustaining grace, to deepen their understanding, and to provide them with such capacity and means as would ensure the successful prosecution of their tasks in service to the Cause in Tasmania.

I take this opportunity of assuring you, and all the friends in Adelaide, particularly Mr Almond, of his supplications for your guidance and protection in these sad and indeed distressing times, and with renewed thanks for your message,

Yours in His service,

H. Rabbani

May the Beloved protect and powerfully sustain you and your never-to-be forgotten co-workers in that far-off continent, and may He aid you to overcome every obstacle in your path and to promote effectively, in these days of turmoil and strife, the vital interests of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

17 January 1941 [James Heggie]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Enclosed is the receipt for the loving contribution which you insisted on making to the Fund of the Faith here at its World Center.

The Guardian was deeply touched by the motives which prompted you to do this, and he therefore accepts it and will expend it for the Cause here.

He was very happy that you were again able to visit the Shrines here, and he assures you that his loving prayers will accompany you, wherever you may be.

With warm Bahá’í Greetings,

Yours in His service,

R. Rabbani

16 March 1941

Dear Ethel Dawe:

Shoghi Effendi has asked me to answer your letter to him concerning the friend of your brother, Mr Reginald Bridgland.

You may rest assured he, as well as the son of Mr Motteram, will be most welcome any time they find it possible to call on the Guardian.

The wonderful spirit of intelligent devotion and steadfastness which animates the Australian, as well as the New Zealand, Bahá’ís in these difficult days, is of great comfort to Shoghi Effendi and a source of pride and satisfaction to him in his ceaseless labours for the Faith.

He was grieved at the news of the passing of beloved Father Dunn—a man whose name and deeds will never be forgotten.  He, as well as Mother Dunn, are like abundant bearing trees.  They have given spiritual life to a whole continent, and now one of them has gone to reap his rich reward in the Abhá Kingdom.  He feels sure that the Bahá’ís are doing everything in their power to comfort and take care of Mother Dunn, so that she will not feel her loss too unbearable.  For indeed to these two souls the friends owe the greatest gift in the world—the knowledge of the Promise of all Ages!

Kindly convey the Guardian’s loving greetings to all the dear friends in those parts, as well as the assurance of his prayers for their well-being.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

Yours in His service always,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

I was very pleased to hear from you, and I cherish bright hopes for your future in the service of our beloved Faith.  I will specially pray that you may be enabled to hold aloft the torch transmitted to the friends by that great and immortal soul Mr Dunn, whose work will inspire the rising generation to arise and follow his glorious example.  May the Beloved guide every step you take in His service.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

12 April 1941

Dearest Mother Dunn:

Shoghi Effendi has instructed me to answer your letter to him of March 25th.

He was most deeply touched by your truly wonderful spirit of love and dedication—so typical of that of your dear husband.

The loss of Father Dunn was felt deeply by the Guardian.  He loved, trusted, and admired him greatly.  But that noble and exemplary soul has now gone to reap his everlasting reward in the presence of our Lord Bahá’u’lláh.  Behind him he has left a truly wonderful harvest, the fruit of your united and untiring service.

Through your and Father Dunn’s efforts the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand have grown to be, not only a devoted community of souls, but believers outstanding in their devotion and the soundness of their views which, Shoghi Effendi greatly admires.  You have indeed every reason to rejoice that in this life you two were so united and, at such a time in history, could dedicate your lives to such a glorious Cause.

The Guardian feels that the thing for you to do is to remain amongst the believers, who so deeply love you, and to carry on the work of dear Father Dunn.  He was most touched by your readiness to enter new teaching fields, but feels that the place where you can best serve the Faith is in Australia, where you can go on aiding the growth of what you have already established.

Shoghi Effendi heartily approves of your thought in connection with Father Dunn’s grave, and hopes it will become possible to have the little park around it which would truly be in accordance with his spirit of love for all—especially children.

With the assurance of our Guardian’s loving prayers for you, Father Dunn and all your spiritual children, I remain with Bahá’í love,

Yours truly,

R. Rabbani

Dear and prized co-worker,

With feelings of overwhelming sorrow I learned of the loss of that great-hearted, that high-minded, that exemplary disciple of ‘Abdu’ l-Bahá, Hyde Dunn, but I rejoice at his elevation to so exalted a seat among the immortals in the Abhá Kingdom, and his reunion with a Master whom he served so lovingly and valiantly, so effectively and so long.  He, the spiritual conqueror of the continent of Australasia, will, by his spirit, his example and accomplishments, continue to inspire the rising generation in that far-off continent and indeed throughout the Bahá’í world.  The memory of his deeds will shed imperishable lustre on the annals of the first century of the Bahá’í era.  Rejoice therefore and be assured of my deepest loving sympathy.

Shoghi

18 April 1941

Mrs Mariette Bolton, 9 Martin Place, Sydney, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your welcome letter of January 31st was received and Shoghi Effendi has instructed me to answer it.

He was so happy to receive all your good news concerning the progress of the Cause in Sydney as well as Yerrinbool.  The unity evident amongst the friends of far-off Australia and New Zealand, the soundness of their grounding in the teaching, their untiring devotion to the Cause of God, all greatly cheer his heart.

He greatly appreciates you and Doctor Bolton’s teaching work both in the classes you are holding in Sydney and the ones in Yerrinbool itself.  You may be sure he will often remember you and your dear children in his prayers at the Holy Shrines and he will also pray for those you are teaching.

Shoghi Effendi has never accepted the requests of the friends that he should give them or their children names.  This is a custom which he feels is sacred to the memory of the dear Master, and he has never felt he should do it himself.  However you may rest assured of his loving prayers for this little son of yours whom you have so generously taken into your home and hearts.

If it should prove feasible to hold a “winter school” at Yerrinbool, as well as the present summer school, Shoghi Effendi feels it would be very useful to the friends and a reinforcement of the many activities already undertaken by the Australian and New Zealand Bahá’ís.

He read with interest Miss Lamprill’s letter which so clearly shows the influence of the Summer-School on the friends.

Assuring you of the Guardian’s deep appreciation of your devoted services,

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

The report of your splendid activities has greatly cheered and heartened me in my arduous task, and I feel truly proud of the work you are accomplishing.  I will specially pray for the fulfilment of every wish and hope you cherish in the service of the Faith.  May the Beloved sustain, inspire and bless you at all times and under all conditions,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

30 July 1941

Mrs Mariette Bolton, 9 Martin Place, Sydney, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Shoghi Effendi has asked me to answer your welcome letter to him of June 28th.

He was delighted to hear of the increased work of the Yerrinbool School and that you have inaugurated a winter session successfully.  This no doubt greatly strengthens the Cause in Australia and is a big step towards its fulfilment of the ideal state for all these Bahá’í schools, which, is of course, to become gradually regular Bahá’í educational institutes, open a large part of the year.

He was also most happy to learn that, through the spirit disseminated by the school, a group of souls in Yerrinbool have joined the Faith.  No better testimony to the value of these institutions could be asked for!  He hopes that the Adelaide Winter School Session will prove also a great success, and that believers in other centers of Australia and New Zealand will find it possible to inaugurate some similar activity, as the distances are so great in those countries that not many of the Bahá’ís can afford at present to gather in one spot.

He is so grateful for the noble services which you and Dr Bolton are so ceaselessly rendering the Faith, and he hopes, and will pray, that your dear children will grow up to follow in your footsteps and add their share of lustre to the annals of the progress of the Faith in those parts.

Assuring you and your family of his most loving prayers, and with Bahá’í love,

Yours in His service,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

Your welcome letter has cheered my heart and greatly encouraged me in the discharge of my arduous duties.  When I recall your magnificent services, and specially when I remember the spirit which animates you in your task, I feel grateful to Bahá’u’lláh for having raised you up in that far-away continent, and inspired you to promote and establish His Faith.  He will surely watch over you both and bless the splendid work you are achieving.  Persevere, be happy and rest assured.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

3 August 1941 [Emily Axford]

Mrs E Axford

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Shoghi Effendi has instructed me to answer your letter to him of May 10th, which just came.  He was, as already expressed in the cable he sent you, greatly impressed by the statement in the Quarterly on the true Bahá’í attitude at the present time.  It displayed a correctness of viewpoint, a courage, and a loyalty to Bahá’u’lláh which has led him to disseminate it far and wide:  in the American Newsletter, in the two Haifa Newsletters, English and Persian, etc.  It was indeed a timely and most noble contribution to the Faith.

The friends in both Australia and New Zealand seem to have developed a most outstanding soundness in their relation to the teachings.  This leads Shoghi Effendi to believe that they will make great contributions to the unfoldment of the world-wide aspects of the Faith.

His prayers are always with you, and he most deeply appreciates the splendid services you are rendering the Cause, and will pray that the way will open for you to do ever greater work and in an ever widening field.

Please assure all the dear friends of Auckland of his loving remembrance and his prayers for their work.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

I cannot refrain from adding a few words in person to assure you of my lively appreciation of your constancy and of the distinctive services you are so ably and devotedly rendering our beloved Faith.  That you may be able to extend their range is my fervent and constant prayer.  Persevere, and be confident and happy.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

24 September 1941

Drs S. W. and M. G. Bolton, Somerset House, 9 Martin Place, Sydney, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í friends:

The Guardian just received your letter of Sepember 5th which he has instructed me to answer.

He was delighted to hear that you are both going to teach the Cause in Hobart, Tasmania and aid the local Bahá’ís there.

In such a vast country as Australia he fully realizes the difficulties which teaching over a wide area presents, and he considers that these very handicaps

have proved the zeal and devotion of the friends of that continent in the service of the Faith.

You already know with what feelings of pride, gratitude and love, the Guardian contemplates the rapidly expanding activities of the Australian and New Zealand friends.  He has every reason to hope and believe that they will go on from victory to victory, continually enriching their already noble record of service.

He most deeply appreciates the many and fine services which you both are rendering the Faith, and you may rest assured his loving and ardent prayers accompany you on your present teaching trip.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

Yours in His service,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers:

I greatly appreciate, nay increasingly admire, your varied and notable services, and particularly the spirit that prompts you to render them.  You are certainly lending a tremendous impetus to the spread of our beloved Faith, and I will pray that you may both be enabled to enrich, in the days to come, the record of your fine accomplishments.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

14 October 1941 [Alice Beaumont]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The Guardian has instructed me to answer your kind letter of August 5th, just received.

He was very pleased to witness your great devotion to our beloved Cause, and to learn that you are so active in spreading it among your fellow-countrymen.  The people of Australia have shown remarkable qualities as Bahá’ís—qualities of intelligent understanding and spirituality, combined, as well as great faith in and devotion to the Cause, once they accept it.  These characteristics have greatly endeared them to Shoghi Effendi, and he has great hopes for the future of the Cause in that country.

You should indeed feel yourself privileged to have known both Keith Ransom-Kehler and Father Dunn—two very unique and noble souls who served the Faith with fiery zeal till the very last moments of their lives.  They offer us all a wonderful example.

The Guardian was very pleased to hear of the Adelaide “Winter-school”, which, from all reports, was indeed very successful.  He hopes the friends will be able to hold many such get-togethers as they are of great help and inspiration.

The way in which you were led to the Faith shows very clearly that God bestowed this great blessing on you.  The Guardian hopes that in your turn He will now aid you to confirm many new souls in His Faith.  Indeed in these dark days the Cause is the only hope we can hold out to suffering humanity, and it is wonderful to realize that we can give them hope and point the way to their happiness and ultimate salvation.

He will pray that you, and Mr and Mrs Dobbins, may be able to greatly aid the Cause in your district and establish a new group of souls.

With Bahá’í greetings,

Yours in His service,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty aid you to lend a fresh impetus to the growth and consolidation of the new-born institutions of His Faith, and enable you to reflect powerfully the spirit that animates you,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

14 October 1941

Bertha and Joe Dobbins

Dear Bahá’í friends,

Shoghi Effendi has instructed me to answer your welcome letter to him of August 6th, 1941, just received.

He is delighted at the excellent report you give of the progress of the Faith in your city, the holding of the Winter-School, the visit of dear Mr and Mrs Bolton, and above all the number of people you have been enabled to lead into the Faith.

The friends must never mistake the Bahá’í administration for an end in itself.  It is merely the instrument of the spirit of the Faith.  This Cause is a Cause which God has revealed to humanity as a whole.  It is designed to benefit the entire human race, and the only way it can do this is to re-form the Community life of mankind, as well as seeking to regenerate the individual.  The Bahá’í Administration is only the first shaping of what in future will come to be the social life and laws of community living.  As yet the believers are only just beginning to grasp and practice it properly.  So we must have patience if at times it seems a little self-conscious and rigid in its working.  It is because we are learning something very difficult but very wonderful—how to live together as a community of Bahá’ís, according to the glorious teachings.

He is very pleased that you have told him about the work of dear Miss Dawe.  He had not known of her serious illness, and regrets it very much.  Please convey to her the assurance of his most loving prayers for her recovery, and encourage her to, by all means, share with her fellow-Bahá’ís, whether

in Australia or abroad, any teaching methods or teaching material she has found meets with response from the public.  This interchange of data and ideas amongst the believers is most stimulating and helpful.

Concerning your statements in your speech, delivered at the Winter-School, that 25 people claimed to be the Promised One in Baghdád, Shoghi Effendi says this is correct.  You probably got the information from pilgrim’s notes, as he has mentioned it to the pilgrims.  He is pleased to see that you are now giving lectures on the Cause.

In closing he wishes to assure you both of his most loving prayers for yourselves and your children as well as those you have been teaching and confirming in the Faith.

Yours in His service,

R. Rabbani

May the Spirit that pervades the Faith be your guide, protector, and succour in these days of world-wide stress and turmoil, and aid you in close collaboration with your devoted and active co-workers, to reinforce the foundations of the structure which you are so marvellously exerting yourselves to establish.  I will continue to pray for you all from the depths of my heart.  Persevere and rest assured.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

14 November 1941 [Ethel Dawe]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your brother, Mr Vernon Dawe, called a short time ago on the Guardian, bringing your kind letter to Shoghi Effendi with him.

Owing to the absence of the Guardian from Haifa he was unable to meet your brother personally, which he regretted very much.  He hopes, however, that your brother will be able to call again before he leaves the Near East, and then have the opportunity of becoming personally acquainted with each other.

Mr Dawe visited the Gardens, the Shrines, and the Sacred Tomb at Bahjí as well as the Mansion and various archives—so you see he was kept very busy the few hours he had at his disposal!

He has been told by those who went with your brother that he showed much interest in the various things he saw, and Shoghi Effendi hopes that this, combined with your own devoted efforts, will serve to arouse in him a love for our beloved Faith.

He assures you he will pray for your brother as well as your dear self.

He has heard from some of the Australian friends of both your excellent work for the Cause and your modesty and devotion.  He trusts that you will

ever-increasingly be able to serve the Cause in a wide field and attract many of your country-men to its enlightened teachings.

With Bahá’í Love,

R. Rabbani

Dear and precious co-worker:

I deeply regret that when your brother called I was away and unable to accord him a hearty welcome.  He has visited the Shrines, however, which is the essential thing.  You are often in my thoughts and prayers, and I trust you will be able to enrich the record of your past and deeply appreciated services,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

25 December 1941

To the Tasmanian Bahá’ís c/o Miss Gretta Lamprill

Dear Bahá’í friends:

Your letter of December 6th has just been received, and the Guardian has instructed me to answer it.

He was delighted with the excellent news you gave him of the progress of the work in Tasmania.  In fact previous to receiving your letter he had heard glowing reports, from some of the Australian friends, of the progress the Cause is making there, and thus feels already somewhat familiar with your work.

You did quite right to write him, and he hopes from time to time you will inform him of the progress of your activities in which he takes the keenest interest.

It is impossible for the friends like yourselves, labouring to establish the Faith in a new and distant territory, to grasp the significance of your achievements.  But those who come after you, and find the foundation laid, the pioneering done, and the harvest ready to be reaped, will know how to befittingly value your labours and appreciate your devotion.

The Guardian was delighted to hear of your youth group.  The children who are trained in the world-embracing teachings of Bahá’u’lláh cannot but grow up to be a truly new race of men.  He hopes these young people will prepare themselves for the great task which will face them in the future, that of helping to re-build the world with the aid and inspiration of the Bahá’í teachings.

He assures you all that he will ardently pray in the Holy Shrines for the progress of your work, and that you may speedily establish a Spiritual Assembly there.

The wonderful help Dr and Mrs Bolton have given you, he greatly appreciates.  They are truly exemplary servants of their fellow-men.

Assuring you of his most loving thoughts and wishes for your welfare and protection.

Ever yours in service to the Faith.

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-workers:

I was overjoyed to receive your most welcome letter.  I wish to assure you of my special and fervent prayers for you, of my admiration and gratitude for the spirit that animates you, and of my eagerness to receive regularly your reports.  May the Beloved protect, sustain, and inspire you in these days of storm and trial, increase your numbers, deepen your understanding, fulfil your dearest hopes, and aid you to reflect powerfully in your lives the beauty and glory of His Revelation.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

25 December 1941 [James Heggie]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Shoghi Effendi has instructed me to write and thank you for your very kind and generous donation to the Bahá’í Fund here in Haifa.  I am enclosing herewith your receipt.

He was very happy indeed to meet you, and feels that if you are an example of the Bahá’í youth of Australia, they will render the Cause many valuable services.

He wishes to assure you that as long as you happen to be in this part of the world you must consider that you have a home here in Haifa, and anytime you can come and visit here you will be most welcome.  Also please feel quite free to write him if there is anything he can do for you.

Rest assured he will often pray for your protection, and that you may be blessed and guided by God in all things.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

January 1942 [Yerrinbool Summer School]

BEST WISHES PRAYERS SCHOOL

26 January 1942 [Ethel Dawe]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The Guardian has instructed me to answer your letter to him of January 4th.  He hopes that your brother will again be able to visit Haifa, while he is in this part of the world, and that this time he will meet him in person.

Recently, two Australian believers, serving with the army, have been able to visit Haifa, one from Adelaide and one from Sydney.  The Guardian was so happy to meet these friends, as the distance is so great between Australia and the Holy Land that few of your members are ever able to make the pilgrimage.  He wishes to assure you that he will pray for your brother, that through your influence and that which he saw and felt here in the Shrines, he will be moved to accept the Cause and lend his aid to the work you yourself are ever so devotedly accomplishing in your service to the Faith.

Though the present outlook seems dark indeed, we must think of the future, and strain every nerve to hasten its advent—that glorious future which the Founders of our Faith have promised us lies ahead of the entire human race!

The Guardian hopes that a day will come when you will again visit Haifa, perhaps with the brother you love so much.

Meantime he assures you of his most loving prayers for your work in the Cause, and your health.

With loving Bahá’í Greetings, ever yours in His service,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

I wish to add a few words in person and assure you of my great admiration for the spirit that powerfully animates you in your activities, and of my constant prayers for your success and spiritual advancement.  You are often in my thoughts, and I hope that the Beloved may, despite the present critical situation, enable you to extend the range of your valued services.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

23 February 1942 [Bertha Dobbins]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of 11th was received and read with great satisfaction by the Guardian.  He has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was most happy to hear of the wonderful spirit prevailing in Yerrinbool.  This experience will no doubt be a great comfort to you and the other believers who were there.  Especially in view of the difficult and dangerous times which Australia is now passing through.

How many times the beloved Master told us that our lives, our love, and our unity, would be the greatest source of attraction to seekers!  It is also our own source of protection and happiness.

Shoghi Effendi hopes that the dear Australian friends will grow day by day more united, and mirror forth the spirit of the Faith in such wise as to set their great homeland ablaze.

The Boltons have, indeed, rendered the Cause a great service in providing this ideal school for them.

In these dark times the Bahá’ís must cling to each other and to their beloved Faith, assured that whatever sufferings they, and indeed the whole world, endure, the outcome is assured and the future glorious.

His prayers are with you all, and he hopes that the dear Adelaide friends will greatly benefit by their trip to Yerrinbool, and lend a new impetus to their work at home.

Assuring you personally of his most loving prayers for the success of your devoted labours in service to the Faith, and with Bahá’í greetings,

Yours in His service,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved guide and sustain you in these days of suffering distress and trial, and enable you and your dear co-workers in those troubled regions to persevere in your task, extend the sphere of your activities, and render the Faith still greater and nobler services,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

20 April 1942 [Clara Dunn]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter to the Guardian of February 2nd, as well as the copy of your letter to one of the friends, was received last night, and the Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He quite understands how you have felt undecided as to the right course of action for you to take in the matter of giving the NSA of Australia and New Zealand legal rights over the body of dear Father Dunn.  However, he feels you need not hesitate to take this step, and thus empower that Assembly, at some future date, to remove his remains to some other spot, more especially so, as your son has no objection to this arrangement.

Such matters can so easily be arranged when people are living, but if they are not provided for it becomes a most laborious, and, in some cases, almost impossible task, once they have passed on.

It is only natural that the Bahá’ís of that Continent should, at some future date, wish to place Father Dunn’s body in the midst of a purely Bahá’í cemetery.  This transfer will be greatly facilitated by your giving them the legal right at present, for both his and your own transfer.

We cannot, of course, at present foresee the nature of future events.  But we can be absolutely sure that, as time passes and the glory of the Faith rises up for all the world to see, the love and respect the various Bahá’í communities feel for their pioneers, their teachers, and outstanding figures, will increase.

Therefore, the Guardian feels that it is only right that the Bahá’ís should possess the power to place you and your dear husband, gone before you, wherever they feel your graves will be of greatest service to the Faith.  This of course is subject to you yourself feeling perfectly happy to give them this right.  The Guardian never forgets dear Father Dunn.  His thoughts, too, are often with you, and his prayers are offered on your behalf, that you may go on serving the beloved Faith for many years to come.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  The Guardian, a few days ago, sent a letter in answer to the NSA’s letter to him in which they stated you were writing to him about this matter direct.  He advised them just what he is advising you in this letter, that he approves of their having the legal rights required if you are content to give them those rights.

Dear and valued co-worker,

I wish to express again my deep sense of sympathy for the great loss which you and all the friends have sustained, through the passing of so distinguished a servant of Bahá’u’lláh.  The work he has performed will adorn the annals of God’s immortal Faith.

I am thankful for, and feel proud of his unique services and will pray for his soul that it may be richly and eternally blessed by Bahá’u’lláh.

Rest assured and be happy,

Shoghi

27 April 1942 [Ethel Dawe]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of February 15th, has just recently reached the Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you.

He was happy to hear from you, and hopes that you have entirely regained your strength, and now are able to serve the Cause increasingly during these critical and all-important times.

His thoughts and his prayers are very often with you in these days.  The friends of Australia and New Zealand, he feels sure, are well equipped spiritually to meet any difficulties or hardships as may fall to their lot in such a period of stress as the present.

He always thinks of them with feelings of the greatest confidence, and trusts in their good judgements, loyalty, and devotion.

Your brother has not called here again.  However, the Guardian hopes you have good news of him, wherever he may be.

With the assurance of his most loving prayers for your well-being and your services to the beloved Cause, and with Bahá’í love,

Yours in His service,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker,

I was so pleased to receive your letter, and to learn that, despite the increasing anxieties, stress, and dangers of the present hour, you are faithfully, vigorously, and devotedly, engaged in promoting the interests of our beloved Faith.  I will continue to pray for you at the Holy Shrines, that the Beloved may inspire, strengthen and bless you at all times and under all conditions.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

31 May 1942

Bahá’í youth of Hobart

Dear Bahá’í friends:

The Guardian was both surprised and pleased to receive your Naw-Rúz greetings, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

To know that there is now, far off in Tasmania, an active and devoted group of young Bahá’ís, delighted him.  It shows what life and vitality is in this Faith that at such a time, far from weakening or being temporarily eclipsed by the terrible tragedies taking place in the world at present, it is growing and spreading and striking new roots all over the world!

The task facing the young Bahá’ís in particular, is very great.  For they are the ones who, with their fellow youth the world over, will be called upon after the war to help build the future, and we are assured that a future without the Bahá’í principles to guide it, will be as unsound and fruitless as post-war reconstruction since 1918 has proved to be.  Therefore the Guardian hopes you will seek to gain a sound and profound knowledge of the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, and endeavour to perfect yourselves as Bahá’ís, so that when the time is ripe you will be able to play your full part in the spiritual leadership of men.

He will pray for you all, that you may attain this goal and worthily acquit yourselves of your sacred tasks in the days to come.

Yours in His service, with Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

15 August 1942 [James Heggie]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of April 12th was received safely, and the Guardian was very happy to see you had gotten back safely to Australia.  He has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

It was indeed a great blessing for you that you should have been able, during this world war, to reach the Shores of the Holy Land and make the Bahá’í pilgrimage, even though your time was necessarily short.  He hopes someday you will again visit Haifa and spend more time.

The difficulties and problems you mention in your letter are ones with which the Guardian is familiar, and he certainly does not mind your mentioning them.  On the contrary, he appreciates hearing about them first hand, and is glad you felt free to write to him.  This is as it should be.

The believers, when few in numbers especially, find themselves called upon to take part in a system infinitely beyond their own personal stage of development.  The laws and principles of the Cause are designed to embrace the planet itself; how can they possibly, at the inception of their practice, work smoothly with a mere handful of people, however sincere and zealous they may be?  Especially as most of the believers the world over at present are adults who change into Bahá’ís, and not people who from childhood have known no other outlook except the exalted outlook the teachings bring.

The difficulties you mention exist more or less everywhere.  But as the numbers of the Bahá’ís increase and the Bahá’ís themselves become more spiritually mature, all these small but regrettable characteristics of community life will gradually disappear.

Of course the letters of the Guardian, as he has pointed out in a recent letter to the NSA, could never confer on any individual a power or function higher than that of the Spiritual Assembly—an institution he himself has been at the greatest pains to establish!  It is very unfortunate that anyone should so misinterpret the spirit and meaning of his letters.

He assures you he will continue to remember you in his prayers, and he cherishes great hopes for your future services to our beloved Faith.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless you and sustain you in your devoted labours for the promotion of our beloved Faith, and may He aid you to demonstrate by your life and deeds the vitalizing spirit of our glorious Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

14 October 1942

Antoinette, Mariette, Stanley and John Bolton, “Bolton Place”, Yerrinbool, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í friends,

Your letter dated August 9, as well as the lovely little book of the “Hidden Words” which you so kindly made for the Guardian and me, just arrived.

The Guardian wants me to thank you on his behalf for this thoughtful and beautiful gift of love which you have sent, and I thank you too for it.  You printed it very well indeed!

He was also very happy to hear of the success of the children’s’ class in Yerrinbool and that so many attended it.

You Bahá’í children and young people have both great privileges and great obligations ahead of you, for your generation will be the ones to help build up a new, better and more beautiful world after the dark years of this war are passed.  You should prepare yourselves for this great task by trying to grasp the true meaning of the teachings and not just merely accepting them as something you are taught.  They are like a wonderful new world of thought just beginning to be explored, and when we realize that Bahá’u’lláh has brought teachings and laws for a thousand years to come, we can readily see that each new generation may find some greater meaning in the writings than the ones gone before did.

Give the Guardian’s love to your dear parents whom he often remembers in his prayers.

He will pray for all of you, that you may grow up to render the Faith many wonderful services in the days to come.

With Bahá’í love,

Yours in His service,

Ruhiyyih Rabbani

May the Almighty richly bless your expanding activities, guide every step you take, cheer and sustain you in these days of stress and peril, and aid you to extend the range of your present and future services.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

30 November 1942

Mrs Mariette Bolton, Yerrinbool, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of August 13th has just been received, and the Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was delighted with all the good news your letter conveyed of the progress of the Cause in those parts, especially the formation of the two study classes you are teaching in Caringbah and North Shore line.  Study classes are, obviously, of the utmost importance, and he sees you are getting good publicity in connection with them.

It is a great loss, no doubt, to your community to have lost five believers so recently.  But their devotion remains to strengthen the Faith, and no doubt other souls will be confirmed and arise to carry on the work they began.

He was very pleased to hear that dear Mother Dunn is well, and all the time helping the friends, and he assures you his prayers will be offered for the teaching work you and the other friends are so actively and devotedly carrying on.

As you already know, he considers the Australian and New Zealand Bahá’ís have a great future in the Cause, and they should feel very happy and optimistic over their work and its potentialities.

He will pray for all those whom you mention in your letter particularly for your brother and your dear self and family,

Assuring you always of his loving prayers and his deep appreciation of your services to the Faith,

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May our Lord and Master guide every step you take, reinforce every effort you exert, consolidate every work you achieve and every victory you win, in the service and for the glory of His Faith.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

26 December 1942 [Yerrinbool Bahá’í Group]

Dear Bahá’í friends:

Your letter of September 1st has just been received recently, and the Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is delighted to see the zeal and determination that fires you in your patient labours to spread the Cause of God among your townsmen in Yerrinbool, and he hopes your efforts will be crowned by the successful establishment of a Spiritual Assembly there by 1944.

Regarding your question concerning membership in Bahá’í Communities:  a person is the member of the community where his official residence is established, regardless of how much time he may spend visiting elsewhere.

Wherever the local Government would consider to be the legal residence of a person, that would be what we would accept also as his official residence.

His loving prayers will continue to surround you all in your devoted labours for the beloved Faith.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Dear co-workers:

I am delighted to receive your most encouraging message, and I wish to assure you in person of my special prayers for the increase of your numbers and the realization of your dearest hopes.  Persevere in your noble efforts, and be happy and assured.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

27 February 1943

Bertha Dobbins

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of December 21st was received, and the Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very sorry to hear of the illness of dear Miss Dawe, and he would like you to assure her that he will pray for her recovery in the Holy Shrines.

The friends must be patient with each other and, must realize that the Cause is still in its infancy and its institutions are not yet functioning perfectly.  The greater the patience, the loving understanding and the forbearance the believers show towards each other and their short comings, the greater will be the progress of the whole Bahá’í Community at large.

The Guardian feels that, through attracting new souls, the Cause will outgrow its present limitations and function more efficiently.

In principle it is an excellent idea to start new communities as long as they fall within separate civic units—towns, townships, etc.—but in America the friends have seen, on more than one occasion, that if they undertook such development prematurely the groups were each too small to attract attention and their forces were dissipated.  These are all matters for the Assemblies and friends to take up with their NSA and abide by their decision.

He was very pleased to secure the good news your letter conveyed of the Summer and Winter school work, and the new teaching work undertaken by the Boltons and others.

He assures you of his loving prayers for the progress of your own devoted labours for the Faith.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless your efforts, guide every step you take, cheer your heart, sustain you, at all times and under all conditions, in the path of service to His Cause and its God-given institutions.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

4 July 1943

Mrs Mariette Bolton, Somerset House, 9 Martin Place, Sydney, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of May 28th has been received, together with the newspaper clippings you enclosed, and the Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very pleased to receive the completed file of clippings, which he found very interesting, and he thanks you for sending them to him.

The broad and tolerant attitude of the Bahá’ís presents such a sharp contrast to the prejudice and intolerance (however sincere) of the members of the clergy who have denounced the teachings of the Faith, that it cannot but excite the interest and admiration of disinterested readers.

The Guardian hopes that the Australian friends will exert their utmost, during these last months of our first Bahá’í century, to bring the Faith to the knowledge of the public, attract and confirm new souls, and consolidate its institutions everywhere.

He deeply values your and your husband’s tireless services, and will often remember you in his prayers.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my special prayers for the steady expansion of your valued activities in the service of the Faith, and for the realization of every hope you cherish, and every plan you conceive, for its consolidation and progress,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

14 July 1943 [Silver Jackman]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter dated April 6th reached the Guardian, together with enclosed draft for … —the receipt for which I am enclosing herewith—and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He regrets very much that you should have felt, for even a moment, that there was some special reason for his forwarding sums through Mr Bolton.  The matter was entirely impersonal, and was due to strict rules governing the addressing of telegrams and cables during war time; no post office box addresses being accepted here any more.  Therefore the Guardian, being sure that Mr Bolton’s address was a permanent one, and the money would not go astray, sent it in his care.  He experienced similar difficulties in communicating with all centers which had only forwarded to him a P. O. Box address.  He now has secured Miss Hilda Brooks’ permanent address which will facilitate communications by cable with the NSA.

He hopes you will continue to serve the NSA in whatever way they may require of you, and continue to do your utmost to promote the Faith in all fields, both locally and nationally.

The most urgent requirement of the Faith in Australia at present is in the teaching field, and he is very anxious for the friends to arise and extend their activities as much as possible in that vast country.

He deeply appreciates the efforts of the Adelaide friends to establish a permanent summer school, but as long as this will dissipate the efforts of the friends, who must now concentrate on one summer school in Australia, and will also detract from the all-important necessity of devoting all attention and resources to the teaching work, he does not approve of the establishment of such an institution at present.

Please assure the friends of his high hopes for the success of their contemplated work in all fields and rest assured his loving prayers are offered for you personally, and for the NSA and the believers.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless your efforts, guide every step you take, and enable you and your dear and valued collaborators to promote, during the concluding year of the first Bahá’í Century, the teaching activities of the Faith, with energy and determination, and crown your labours with unprecedented success.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

P.S.  He is happy to hear Mr Appleton has returned safely home and is active in the Cause.  He was received here with great pleasure as the Australian and New Zealand friends are always welcome.

14 July 1943

Bertha Dobbins

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of May 19th has been received, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

The Guardian was surprised to hear that the friends of Adelaide have embarked on such an expensive project as the purchase of a house and property at such a time.  He fully realizes, however, that it is nothing but their keen desire to further the interests of the Faith in every way that has led them to this step.  In this connection he would like to say that he does not consider it wise for the Australian friends to have more than one Summer School at present, as it will dissipate their forces and be an unnecessary burden on their resources.  If the friends wish to maintain this property they have recently purchased, he would suggest that they convert it into their local administrative headquarters and meeting place.  This matter is one for the Local Assembly to decide, preferably in consultation with the National Assembly.

The most urgent task facing the friends of Australia at present is the teaching work, and the Guardian is eagerly awaiting news of their activities in this field.

Please convey his loving greetings to all the friends.  He is pleased to hear Mr Appleton arrived safely home, and is so active in the work there.

Assuring you of his prayers for the success of your teaching efforts,

Yours, with Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless your efforts and enable you, and the dear friends in Adelaide, and indeed in Australasia and New Zealand, to lend a tremendous impetus to the progress and development of the all-important and most urgent teaching task that confronts them at the present time,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

15 July 1943

Mrs Mariette G. Bolton, 9 Martin Place, Sydney, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Your letter of May 3rd, together with newspaper clippings and photos, reached the Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He found the correspondence very interesting, regarding the Faith, in the “Mittagong Star”; such open discussion cannot but attract attention and stimulate a wide interest in the Cause and a better understanding of its true meaning.

He was also delighted to see the pictures of the Hyde Dunn Memorial Hall and Hilda Gilbert Cabin; Yerrinbool is becoming yearly a more important rallying point for the friends, and he has great hopes for its future.  Your and Mr Bolton’s devoted and tireless services to the Faith are very deeply appreciated by the Guardian, and he hopes you will both be able to further the general teaching work in Australia, the importance of which the Guardian is greatly emphasizing at the present time.

His loving prayers will be offered on your behalf and on behalf of your dear family, that God may strengthen, guide and protect you all.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless continually and abundantly your highly meritorious labours, and aid you and your dear husband as well as all your collaborators to promote effectively the all-important teaching work, in the course of this crucial year, and thus crown with memorable victories your achievements and services, for the promotion of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

5 September 1943

Dr Mariette Bolton, 9 Martin Place, Sydney, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter, with clipping enclosed, dated June 18th, has been received, and the Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He was very pleased to hear of the success of the Winter School held at Yerrinbool, and that two new believers have embraced the Faith.  Please convey to these friends a loving welcome into the Faith on the part of the Guardian.

The need for a national administrative headquarters for the Cause in Australia has been stressed by the Guardian in a recent cable to the NSA, and he hopes the Sydney friends will do all in their power to speed the

consummation of this plan, so that it may be ready and in use before the Centenary of our Faith next May.

He sends his loving greetings to you and your family and the assurance of his prayers on your behalf for the success of your ceaseless labours for the Faith.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani.

May the Beloved pour out His manifold blessings upon your work to which I attach the utmost importance, and for which I cherish the fondest hopes.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

5 September 1943 [Ethel Dawe]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of June 26th has been received and the Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is very pleased to hear you are now in sufficiently good health to go on with your work, and he hopes that, with your wide background and abilities, you will be able to substantially assist the teaching work in Australia.

As the Centenary rapidly approaches the need grows more urgent for the Australian friends to enlarge their ranks and also bring the Cause to the attention of the public in general.

He will pray that God may strengthen you to render valuable assistance in this all-important field of Bahá’í activity.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Wishing you all happiness and success from the depths of my heart, and assuring you of my special prayers for your spiritual advancement and the extension of your activities in the service of our beloved Faith,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

16 September 1943 [Alvin Blum]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter—with the two interesting enclosures—dates June 21st reached the Guardian a few days ago, and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He has heard indirectly from Miss Kitty Carpenter of how happy the friends have been to have you in their midst, and how much you have helped their local activities.  He was very happy to know you are able to be active in serving the Faith, even while doing army work in distant lands.

As you no doubt have heard, Dear Mrs Ives has passed away.  Her truly wonderful and exemplary services will never be forgotten, and she and her husband deserve to be emulated by the younger generation of Bahá’ís.

The Guardian hopes that in the future you and Miss Gewertz—such a devoted worker for the Faith—will have an equally happy and dedicated union.

He will pray that wherever you are God will open the way for you to serve the Faith.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my special prayers for you and for the realisation of every hope you cherish in the service of our beloved Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

14 October 1943 [Clara Dunn]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of August 23rd reached the Guardian, and he greatly rejoiced to hear of your determination to arise and serve the Faith in Queensland during this last year of the 1st Bahá’í century.  This decision must also greatly rejoice the heart of dear Father Dunn, who will no doubt be with you in spirit and aiding you from the invisible world.

He was also very happy to hear that the stone has been placed on the grave of Father Dunn, and is so beautiful, and he is hoping to receive a photograph of it in the near future.

The friends in Australia small as are their numbers, should arise now to truly sacrifice for their Faith, and produce some victories by our glorious centenary in May 1944.  Their spirit has been faithful, they have been devoted and enterprising, and have achieved many things in Australia, and he hopes they will accomplish still greater things during the next few months.  He is very anxious to receive news of the purchase of the administrative Headquarters in Sydney and of the establishment of new groups and Assemblies.

If it is possible and the journey is safe, he sees no reason why you should not go to America for the 1944 Convention.

The Guardian, as you can well imagine, is greatly over-burdened with work at present, and very tired.  But his heart is with the friends, and he eagerly awaits their good news.

He sends you his love and assures you his prayers will accompany you in all you do for our beloved Faith.

With warmest Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved of our hearts graciously assist, protect, sustain and help you always and enable you, in the all-important teaching field, to win fresh laurels for the crown you have won in His service,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

22 January 1944

Mrs Mariette Bolton, Somerset House, 9 Martin Place, Sydney, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letters dated October 25 and December 4th, as well as the reports you forwarded, have been received, and the Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was truly delighted to see the way the Cause is spreading, and he is deeply appreciative of the tireless endeavours of Mr Bolton and yourself in serving our beloved Faith.

The people of Australia hold great promise of becoming attracted in large numbers to the Cause, and the Guardian hopes that the establishment in Sydney of the Nat.  Bahá’í Headquarters and the Summer School at Yerrinbool and other activities on a national scale will be the means of bringing the Faith to the attention of the public in a big way during the remaining months of this closing year of our first Century.

So much lies ahead in the second Century!  The Bahá’ís have every reason to feel courageous, proud and enthusiastic, however, as they face the future.  If so much has been accomplished by so few in the midst of such a war, what can not be done under more favourable circumstances?

Assuring you of his loving prayers for the success of your manifold teaching activities and for the members of your dear family.

Yours, with Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

I was delighted to receive your letter and reports, and I am deeply grateful to you for your exemplary efforts and achievements.  I will pray from the depths of my heart for your success, your spiritual advancement, and the fulfilment of every hope you cherish for the progress of our beloved Faith.  May

the Beloved bless continually your noble exertions, and reward you for your splendid accomplishments,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

22 January 1944 [Lily Jean Hutchinson-Smith]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter, dated October 26th, has been received together with the snapshots you forwarded, and the Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He deeply regrets the intense suffering you must be passing through due to the uncertainty surrounding your son’s condition.  He will certainly pray ardently for his protection, and that this period of trial may be safely passed and leave him spiritually more mature and ready for our beloved Faith to sink into his heart.  He will also pray for you and your dear daughter, that Bahá’u’lláh may graciously aid you to solve your problems and improve the state of affairs in her family.

He hopes that by the time this reaches you the National Bahá’í Headquarters will have been established in Sydney.

This is an institution of great importance—the fore-runner of many future Bahá’í institutions in that vast continent.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless your devoted efforts, guide every step you take in His service, remove all obstacles from your path, and fulfil every desire you cherish for the furtherance of the interests of His Faith.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

12 May 1944 [Auckland Spiritual Assembly]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letters dated March 1st, 25th and March 21st—Bahá’í Naw-Rúz greeting—have been received, and the Guardian has instructed me to answer them on his behalf.

He was very pleased indeed to hear that the Cause in New Zealand is not only steadily progressing but that it is winning such good friends as Rev.  Chandler.  Also the preparations you are making for the Centenary should serve to not only publicise the Faith but bring the believers closer to liberal-minded fellow-citizens.

He himself is at present frightfully busy with local preparations for the Centenary and with cables and correspondence—but he wishes you all to

know that his thoughts will be with you on this glorious day of the 100th anniversary of the Báb’s declaration, and he will pray for all the New Zealand Bahá’ís in the Holy Shrine.

With most loving greetings and best wishes from the Guardian for the success of all your plans.

Yours, with Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless your efforts, guide your steps, sustain you in your devoted endeavours, and enable you to promote effectively the best interests of His Faith,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

30 June 1944

Mrs Mariette Bolton, “Bolton Place”, Yerrinbool, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter dated April 18th has been received, with reports and clipping you enclosed, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

Although, as you know, he is very pressed for time and over-worked, yet he is always glad to get news of the progress of the Faith, as this is his source of joy and comfort during a period of many anxieties and heavy burdens to bear.  He has such bright hopes for the spread of the Cause in Australia and New Zealand, and is very grateful to you for the unsparing manner in which you give your time and energy to the work there.

Regarding your question of “Basic English’s” usefulness as an international language.  He is not very familiar with it, as he is too preoccupied with the tremendous amount of work he has to do here.  But what little he has read about it makes him doubt whether it would ever be adequate to meet the requirements of an auxiliary tongue.

He will pray for the guidance and protection of your dear family and for yourself, as well as for the rapid advancement of the groups you are teaching and which you mention in your reports.  He will also remember Mrs Thomson in his prayers and supplicate for her happiness in the world beyond, where she has gone to meet her reward.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved, whose Cause you are diligently serving, reward you a thousandfold for your invaluable services, guide every step you take, fulfil every desire you cherish, and remove every obstacle from your path.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

17 October 1944

Bertha Dobbins

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of August 20th has been received, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

First let me assure you he is very happy to hear the Port Adelaide work is progressing, and he hopes you will be able, with the help of other dear friends, to establish an Assembly there soon.

The Guardian feels that there seems to be some lack of clarity on the matter of his receiving and answering letters from individual believers.  Any Bahá’í is free to write their Guardian.  He almost invariably encourages the friends in their work for the Cause.  But sometimes the impression has arisen (many times in the USA and other countries) that an instruction to teach or serve in some way, which an individual receives from him, places him beyond the jurisdiction of the Assembly; this, of course, is not so as he could never encourage the friends to break regulations he has himself for years been at great pains to see maintained for the good of the Cause.

So many misunderstandings arise from the passionate attachment of the friends to the Faith and also their immaturity.  We must therefore be very patient and loving with each other and try to establish unity in the Bahá’í family.  The differences—very unfortunate—which you describe in your letter he feels are caused by the above and not by enmity to the Faith or insincerity.

He urges you to do your utmost to create a greater love and harmony in the community, and to persevere in teaching the Holy Faith.  He will pray for you, your dear husband and the Appletons to whom he sends loving greetings.

Yours ever,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved of our hearts bless, richly and continually, your work, resolve your problems, guide every step you take in the path of service, and enable you to proclaim far and wide the truths underlying His glorious Revelation,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

8 November 1944 [Dulcie Dive]

ASSURE YOU LOVING PRAYERS

26 November 1944

Mrs E. McMiles, 444 Port Hacking Rd., Caringbah, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of August 22nd has been received and the Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He is very happy to have this opportunity of welcoming you into the World-wide Community of Bahá’u’lláh’s followers.  The privilege of serving these days is very great, and the need of humanity to hear that the Divine Remedy has been provided for its ills, desperate indeed.

He will pray for the progress and development of the group there, and that you may be enabled to pass on to many others the light you have yourself received.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty guide every step you take in the path of service and fulfil every hope you cherish for the promotion of His Cause,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

26 November 1944 [Olga Peak]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The Guardian has received your loving message of greeting, expressing your devotion to the Cause and your desire to serve it, and he wishes to himself welcome you into its fold.

There is no service more meritorious in these dark days the world is passing through than to spread the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, for they provide the sovereign remedy for the ills of mankind.

He assures you of his loving prayers for your labours in the Faith and for the success of the work being carried out in Caringbah.  With warm greetings,

Yours in His service,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved of our hearts bless, guide and sustain you always, and enable you to promote, effectively and at all times, the vital interests of His Faith.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

26 November 1944 [Gertrude Muller]

Mrs K. A. G. Muller, 349 Willarong Rd., Caringbah, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The Guardian has received your letter of July 25th and instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He is very pleased to have this opportunity of welcoming you into the World-wide Community of Bahá’u’lláh’s followers.  The privilege of serving these days is very great, and the need of humanity to hear that the Divine Remedy has been provided for its ills, desperate indeed.

He will pray for the progress and development of the group there, and that you may be enabled to pass on to many others the light you have yourself received.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty guide every step you take in the path of service and fulfil every hope you cherish for the promotion of His Cause,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

10 December 1944

Mrs M. G. Bolton, “Bolton Place”, Yerrinbool, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer your letters dated June 8th, 21st. and August 4th, and to thank you for the reports of your work enclosed.  He recently received very warm letters from the members of the Caringbah group, and he was very happy to see that a new Assembly is well on the way to being formed and that you have so actively aided in the teaching work there.  He hopes that the other centers where you have been teaching will also soon rise to Assembly status and thus enrich the number of administrative units in that vast country.

He was also very pleased to see that the sessions of the Yerrinbool School had been so successful and that two such enlightened youth as Lilian and Frank Wyss had expressed their intention of joining the Faith.  Please extend to these two young people a hearty welcome into the Cause on behalf of Shoghi Effendi.

He was likewise very glad to see that Effie Baker was able to be present and mingle with the friends.

During your trip to the United States he would suggest you get in touch with the Nat. Teaching Com. (Mr Leroy Ioas of San Francisco is Chairman) and offer to do any lecturing or teaching which could fit in with both your

plans and theirs.  It always stimulates the work to have a believer from a distant land visit the friends and give them news.

The Guardian does not feel that two Summer Schools in such close proximity are advisable.  In fact he considers Yerrinbool sufficient for the present needs of the Cause in Australia.

You may be sure he will pray for you and your dear children and husband and for the success of all your Bahá’í services.

With warm greetings,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

I wish to assure you in person of my keen and abiding appreciation of your manifold services to our beloved Faith, and of the spirit that animates you in your high endeavours for its promotion.  Persevere in your labours, and be assured that my prayers will continue to be offered on your behalf,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

9 March 1945

Mrs Mariette G. Bolton, Somerset House, 9 Martin Place, Sydney, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of February 7th has been received, together with the interesting clippings you so thoughtfully enclosed and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He also read your copy of your letter to the NSA suggesting Mrs Dunn should take up residence in the Ḥaẓíra.  This loving suggestion of yours is naturally a matter for that Body to decide.  The friends should always show Mrs Dunn the greatest affection, for she and her husband have rendered that country an imperishable service!

He hopes your visit to America, as he mentioned in his last letter, will be an occasion for you to see the friends there in many cities, and if possible aid them in their teaching work.

His loving prayers are offered on your behalf and for the guidance and development of your dear children.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my keen and abiding appreciation of your constant and meritorious services and accomplishments in the teaching field, and of my

loving and fervent prayers for the extension of your notable activities and the consolidation of your splendid achievements,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

P.S.  Your letter of December 29th just arrived and the Guardian was delighted to see that an Assembly can now be formed in Caringbah; this is an important step forward and he feels you should rejoice in having had so large a part in it.  He was also pleased to see from the report you enclosed that progress is being made in the other groups as well, and that the papers accept and print so much Bahá’í material and news.

7 April 1945

The Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Sydney and the friends there.

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian received your Naw-Rúz greeting, and he was very touched that your thoughts should have sped Haifa-ward at the Bahá’í New Year.

He wishes me to assure you all that he often thinks of the Australian friends, and is very encouraged over the progress the Faith is making there.  He hopes your Community and Assembly will be able to build up many new Assemblies in the neighbourhood of Sydney and that amongst you pioneers will arise to go forth in the footsteps of dear Father Dunn.  Large Communities in America—such as Chicago and New York,—have supplied many pioneer teachers the last eight years, and it has been shown that the vital and strong foundations of old Bahá’í Communities enables them to undertake tasks too difficult for younger groups.  He feels Sydney, as the first place to receive the Faith in Australasia, has special responsibilities in the teaching field, and he will pray for your guidance and the success of your devoted labours.

With Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

8 May 1945 [Clara Dunn]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your very welcome letter of April 19th has been received, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He was rejoiced to see that you are able to do so much teaching work, and thus carry on the glorious tradition you and Father Dunn established in Australia.  No doubt your dear husband’s spirit, likewise, rejoices to see you carrying on the work so dear to him!

There seems to be some misapprehension about the term “official teacher”; we have no such thing as official teachers; all can and should teach the Cause.  The term cannot be applied to anyone.  Sometimes a believer is sent out on a teaching trip and receive help from the National Fund—but even then they are not “official” in any particular way.

He hopes that you will be able to attract and confirm new souls in Port Adelaide, and assist in establishing an Assembly there.  Give his loving greetings to all the dear friends whom you meet, and urge them to actively spread the Faith during these days when men’s hearts are turned to peace after the suffering of the war.

He will pray for the success of your labours and for your health in the Holy Shrines.  He will also pray for Miss Perks, the dear Appletons and the other friends you mentioned in your letter.

With warm Bahá’í love

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker,

I was so glad to receive your letter and to learn that you are still active in the service of our beloved Faith.  The services which you in close collaboration with your immortal husband, have rendered are indeed historic and highly meritorious in the sight of God.  Future generations will gratefully extol them.  Persevere, rest assured and be happy.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

6 June 1945

Mrs Stanley Bolton, “Bolton Place”, Yerrinbool, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letters of January 10th and May 15th have been received, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer them on his behalf and thank you for the reports and photographs you enclosed.

He was very happy to learn of the formation of an Assembly in Caringbah, and hopes you will now concentrate on the next largest group, so that a new one can be soon added to the roll in Australia.

He was also very pleased to see that new souls are joining the Cause; the teaching work is, of course, of paramount importance, and the friends should devote as much of their time, energies, and resources to it as is possible.  One of the signs of the perfection of our teachings is the way young people accept them, and the many valuable services they are rendering the Faith all over the world.

He will continue to pray for the success of your devoted labours and for the spiritual development and progress of your dear children.

With Bahá’í love and greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you, enable you to extend the range of your services, and attract new souls to the Faith and consolidate its God-given institutions,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

17 July 1945

Bertha Dobbins

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of April 16th has been received a few days ago, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He wishes to thank you for your photographs of the Bahá’í group of Port Adelaide; they seem to be a very nice group of people, and he hopes they will soon have a sufficient number to form an Assembly.

He was also pleased to hear dear Mother Dunn is going to be able to help them in their activities, and he wishes you to kindly give her his loving greetings.

You may be sure he will pray for this group of devoted new Bahá’ís and that they may be a firm, united, loving and active body of believers.

He will also pray for you and Mr Dobbins, that your services may be blessed and fruitful.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless your efforts, guide your steps, and aid you to promote the best interests of our beloved Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

26 October 1945

Mrs Madge Featherstone

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The beloved Guardian was very happy to hear from you, in your letter of August 27th, and he wishes to welcome you and your dear husband and children into the service of our glorious Faith.

You young people have a great opportunity now of helping to build up the Adelaide Community, and strengthen its activities.  The Guardian is continually urging the Bahá’ís the world-over to remember that the thing which will most rapidly attract the hearts of bewildered humanity to this life-giving Faith is a demonstration of the love and unity which animates the Bahá’í Community; everything else is dependent on this.  Our teachings are the perfect remedy for the ills of the world, but men will not feel ready to accept them unless they see in our Community life that harmony and love of God for which the world is starving.

You young people have a great opportunity before you to serve the Cause, and he hopes that you will in every way endeavour to be exemplary believers, by your deeds, through following the administration, and by obtaining a profound knowledge of the teachings.

There have been a number of Bahá’í books prepared for children in America, and he suggests you get in touch with the Bahá’í Publishing Committee, Mrs Clara Wood, 110 Linden Ave, Wilmette, Illinois.  She can advise you as to what is available at present.

You may be sure that the Guardian will pray for you, your husband, and your children, that you may be guided and protected, and enabled to serve in many fields this Cause you love so deeply.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you in the service of His glorious Faith, and graciously assist you to promote, at all times and under all conditions, the vital interests of its new-born institutions.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

26 October 1945 [Collis Featherstone]

Mr H. C. Featherstone

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of August 27th took some time to reach the beloved Guardian, but he was very happy to hear from you, and has instructed me to answer you on his behalf, and to welcome you into our beloved Cause, which you and your dear wife have embraced with so much devotion and sincere conviction.

Regarding the questions you have asked:  the general principle laid down by the Guardian is that there should be one Spiritual Assembly in each civic area.  For instance, New York City, with its immense population and wide-spread boroughs only has one LSA in accordance with this obviously logical principle.  How this should be applied in detail is a matter for the various National Spiritual Assemblies to decide, and your NSA must of course apply this rule

to Australia and New Zealand.  However, fireside teaching classes can be held, and should be held, by as many of the believers as possible in order to reach people with the teachings.

As to your other questions:

No 1.  The Maxwell notes have the same status as other pilgrims notes; they are of value, but are not the verbatim report of the Guardian’s words.

No 2.  In “God Passes By” you will find reference to the “son of the wolf” and who he was.

No 3.  We cannot say more about the Seventh Angel than what the Master has stated in “Some Answered Questions”.

No 4.  “The Chosen Highway” has the same status as pilgrims’ notes; it is a very interesting book but some of the statements must be taken as hearsay only.

No 5–6.  These are questions for scholars to decide; the Guardian always recommends that we refer to experts in such matters.

No 7.  Mrs Kehler’s statements are obviously hearsay, and the Guardian cannot corroborate them.  Islam, like Christianity, however, has been split up into many sects.

No 8.  As I just mentioned above, not every statement in Lady Blomfield’s book can be considered absolutely accurate.

No 9.  There is no objection to the Adelaide LSA keeping a record of the names of contributors, and sums received; but no pressure must ever be brought on the Bahá’ís to contribute, it must be voluntary, and should be considered confidential, unless the friends themselves wish to mention it openly.

No 10.  The Guardian suggests you try and procure ring stones from the Indian Bahá’ís, as they are usually made in the East.

No 11.  There is no direct reference to atomic bombs in the teachings, but many references to the powers latent within the universe; atomic force is obviously one of these powers.

No 12.  The darkening of the sun, moon and stars is purely symbolic, and refers to the advent of the Manifestation of God, which has already taken place.

No 13.  The best answer is that we do not believe in taking such a statement literally, but that great destruction is one of the signs of the times.

The Guardian hopes you, your wife, and the other young people who are so active in the Cause in your neighbourhood will render it many services, promote unity and love in the Community, strengthen the administrative foundations of the Faith, and attract many new souls to it.  His loving prayers will be offered on your behalf, you may be sure.

With warm greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Spirit of Bahá’u’lláh bless and reinforce your efforts, and may He aid you to obtain a clearer understanding of the essentials of His Faith, and to advance its best interests, and contribute to the consolidation of its God-given institutions,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

18 December 1945

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter, dated June 16th, with the enclosures you forwarded in it, was received, and the Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

Since you have turned to him for guidance, he will very frankly give you his opinion.

He feels that the present inharmony prevailing amongst you, Miss …, and some other members of the Faith there, is very detrimental to the advancement of the Cause, and can only lead to disruption and the chilling of the interest of new believers.  You, Miss …, and all the other believers there should forget about your personal grievances, and unite for the protection of the Faith which he well knows you are all loyally devoted to and ready to sacrifice for.

Perhaps the greatest test Bahá’ís are ever subjected to is from each other; but for the sake of the Master they should be ever ready to overlook each others’ mistakes, apologize for harsh words they have uttered, forgive and forget.  He strongly recommends to you this course of action.

Also he feels that you and Mr … should not remain away from the meetings and Feasts in Adelaide; you have now got an enthusiastic group of young Bahá’ís in Port Adelaide, and you should show them a strong example of Bahá’í discipline and the unity which can and must prevail amongst the community of the Most Great Name.

The civic area in which LSAs can be formed is an administrative matter for the NSA to decide.

Please assure dear Mother Dunn of his loving prayers on her behalf, and his appreciation of her devoted services.

He will ardently pray that this whole matter may be speedily settled and forgotten.

With warm Bahá’í greetings, yours in our Sacred Faith,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless your efforts for the establishment of harmony and understanding among the friends, and enable you to achieve, in this field, great and enduring victories,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

6 March 1946 [Alvin Blum]

Dear Bahá’í brother,

Your letter of December 13th has been received, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He deeply appreciates the valuable services you have rendered the Cause in both New Zealand and the Philippines, and hopes you will impress on the American friends the need of helping the Bahá’ís in Solano to get their scattered forces together again.

It is truly wonderful the way the Faith there has not only survived but spread; he was very happy to hear there is now, thanks to your efforts, a Bahá’í in Manila who is active.  He was also delighted to hear there are American Bahá’ís stationed there and helping with the work.

He approves of your plan to return to Australasia and help the believers there.  They need the stimulation of outside teachers being so very far away from other countries where the friends are active.

You may be sure he will pray that you and your dear wife may have a very happy life together and render the Cause you are both so devoted to many memorable services.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty abundantly reward you for your manifold services, bless your efforts in the days to come, and enable you to win, in distant fields, memorable victories for our glorious Faith,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

9 March 1946

Mrs Mariette Bolton, Somerset House, 9 Martin Place, Sydney, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letters, with their enclosures, and dated July 14th, and August 9th, 1945, have been received, and the beloved Guardian would have answered you before only he has been too busy to do so.

He is very pleased to hear you are now teaching a new group in Wollongong, and hopes your efforts will soon lead to the establishment of an Assembly there.  Regarding your question about group members being allowed to cast votes for delegates:  This is only necessary and practicable where there are large numbers of Bahá’ís scattered widely over states and Provinces, as there are now in America, Canada and Persia.  Other Bahá’í Countries follow the same procedure as you do in Australia, namely that only Communities having

Assemblies cast votes for, and have, a delegate.  Whenever he sees that the Cause has grown sufficiently to change the basis of election he will let the friends know—and he hopes they will redouble their teaching efforts so as to increase sufficiently to necessitate a change!

Assuring you of his loving prayers for the success of your teaching work and for your dear family,

Yours, with Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty continually bless your efforts, guide every step you take in the path of service, reward you for your splendid achievements, and enable you to consolidate your meritorious activities,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

10 March 1946

The Bahá’ís of Hobart, Tasmania

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your loving Naw-Rúz greeting has just reached our beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer it by conveying to you his own best wishes for a happy Bahá’í New Year and unprecedented success in your work for the Cause.

He will pray for you all in the Holy Shrines, that Bahá’u’lláh may bless your services and sustain you in your work for His Cause.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

6 September 1946 [Ethel Dawe]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The beloved Guardian was very happy to receive news of your activities through your letter of August 4th, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was particularly glad to hear you are able to give the Message to many people of importance, as this is a valuable and necessary form of teaching work.  The fact that you are known as a Bahá’í in itself must attract the attention of many people you meet to the Cause, and he hopes that you will ever-increasingly find ways and means of carrying on your direct Bahá’í work.

He was also very pleased to hear you were able to visit Hobart, and help the friends there, and also visit many other Bahá’í Centers.

He wishes to thank you in advance for the kind gift you and your dear brother are sending him of photos taken in Bahjí, which he will be very happy to have.

You may be sure he will pray for you and for the success of your work, and that you may reach many people with the Cause during the conferences you mentioned would be taking place.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

He hopes the way will again open for you to visit Haifa.  Present conditions in the country have necessitated the suspension of all pilgrimages at present.  We can only hope the situation will improve soon.

Dear and valued co-worker:

I wish to assure you in person of my loving appreciation of your constant services to the Faith, and of my fervent prayers for your success in every effort you exert for its promotion.  Persevere in your noble efforts, and rest assured that the Beloved will bless richly your high endeavours.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

5 February 1947 [Alvin and Gertrude Blum]

Dear Bahá’í friends:

It was very kind and thoughtful of you to send the Guardian the notice of the birth of your daughter Keith-Wilma; he hopes she will grow as firm, devoted, loyal and active in the Cause as her dear parents are!

You may be sure he will pray for her and for you both,

With love and congratulations,

R. Rabbani

4 April 1947

To:  Mother Dunn

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your welcome letter dated November 18th, 1946, reached our beloved Guardian and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He is very glad to hear Miss Perks has embraced the Faith; please assure her of his loving prayers on her behalf, and tell her that he hopes in the future the way will open for her to visit here.  At the present time no pilgrims are permitted owing to the state of the country.

He was very happy to hear you find the friends progressing spiritually there.  This is the true progress and on it, to a great extent depends the outward advancement of the Faith.

Your devoted and untiring services are, you may be sure, deeply appreciated by him, and his loving prayers are offered for you in the Holy Shrines.

He is urging the NSA to make definite teaching plans, with a time limit and specified objectives, and he hopes your health will permit you to do some teaching work in new centres.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved protect, bless, and sustain you, enable you to enrich still further the record of your past splendid services to His Cause, and aid you to fulfil whatever desire you cherish for the promotion of the interests of its God-given institutions.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

8 April 1947 [Bertha Dobbins]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of February 2nd was received, and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to write you a little line of appreciation for the lovely and encouraging description you gave him of Yerrinbool School.  As he is so very busy these days he finds it hard to keep up with his mail.

He hopes that all the Australian friends will unite as one soul in pursuing their teaching plans and in constructing new groups and Assemblies.

Your devoted labours for the Faith of God are much appreciated, and he prays for your success in confirming new souls.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless your efforts, guide your steps, and enable you to promote the best interests of His Faith and its God-given institutions,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

16 April 1947

Mr and Mrs Stanley Bolton, “Bolton Place”, Yerrinbool, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í Friends;

Your Naw-Rúz greeting was received, as well as Mrs Bolton’s letter dated February 18th by our beloved Guardian; and he has instructed me to write and thank you for it and also for the poems written by Stanley Bolton Jr.

He hopes the school will go on being a source of inspiration to the friends and a rally-point for the youth, and that from it many souls may go forth, fired with a keener determination to teach and serve our glorious Faith.

You may be sure his loving prayers are with you and your work for the Cause.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless your constant and meritorious efforts for the promotion of our glorious Faith, and enable you to win great victories in its service,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

P.S.  He cannot at present grant anyone permission to visit Haifa owing to the very disturbed conditions within the country.  He hopes, however, that in the future your children will have this privilege and blessing.  He will pray for their success and spiritual progress in the Holy Shrines.

20 April 1947 [Stanley W. and Mariette Bolton]

HOPING CONVENTION NEXT YEAR ASSURE YOU LOVING PRAYERS

20 June 1947 [Alvin and Gertrude Blum]

Dear Bahá’í friends:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian dated March 9th was received and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf, and also to thank you for the photograph of your little girl, taken with her mother.  He is very happy to hear of your going out to settle in New Zealand.  Your presence there, he feels sure, will be of great help in stimulating and assisting the friends there to establish new centers and build up new Spiritual Assemblies.

He urges you, if it is feasible, to settle in some town where you can build up a Local Assembly, and thus hasten the day when New Zealand will have a representative number of Assemblies.

You may be sure his loving prayers will accompany you, and be offered for your success and protection as you settle down in your new home.

With warmest Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you and aid you to promote, at all times and under all conditions, the vital interests of His faith, and its God-given institutions.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

28 June 1947

Mrs Mariette G. Bolton, Bolton Place, Yerrinbool, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian with its enclosures, dated June 16th, was received, and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He is delighted to hear the visit to America has so stimulated your dear children and that they are all eagerness to serve the Cause in Australia on their return.  You may be sure he will certainly pray for them in the Holy Shrines, and for the other young people you mention in your letter.

It cheered his heart to hear there is now a Bahá’í in Glen Innes, and he will pray that a group may be soon formed there.  He will also pray for the constant success of your much appreciated labours,

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Spirit of Bahá’u’lláh sustain, bless and guide you and enable you and the members of your dear family to promote effectively the best interests of His Faith and of its nascent institutions in that far-off and promising country.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

8 July 1947 [Alvin and Gertrude Blum]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

I am just sending you this little note to assure you that your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated July 10th, 1946, was received, but by an oversight was not acknowledged in the recent letter I wrote you on his behalf!

His loving prayers go with you in your new life, and he feels your presence in New Zealand will be of great service to the Cause there.

With loving greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success in the service of our beloved Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

22 July 1947

Mr Featherstone, 1 Nana Terrace, Albert Park, South Australia

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated 12th December 1946, with its enclosures, was duly forwarded to him by the NSA and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

Such cases where the decision of the Local Assembly is challenged by some of the believers (or one of them), should be referred by the Assembly to the NSA for decision.

He has already informed the NSA that he feels it is the right and duty of delegates to report back to the community on the Convention.

He hopes all the friends, your dear self included, will concentrate all their time and energies on carrying out the teaching plans, as the success of these, through enlarging the Faith, will gradually do away with many of the problems that arise at present.

He assures you of his loving prayers on your behalf, and his appreciation of your devotion to the Cause of God.

With warm greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless, sustain and guide you, at all times and under all conditions, and enable you to promote effectively the vital interests of our glorious Faith, and its God-given institutions,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

19 December 1947 [Bertram Dewing]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated December 12th has been received, and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.  The previous letter you mention cannot have reached him; as he always replies to letters from the friends.

Your book touches on a very important subject, and he regrets that he cannot read it himself.  His work is so pressing and multiplying so fast that he invariably refuses to go over the manuscripts the friends send him, as he simply cannot attend to such things as well as all his other work.  You should send it to the Reviewing Committee in the USA and ask their advice.  Perhaps an outside publisher would be interested in it?  The Bahá’í funds have such heavy demands made on them at present that even essential literature must often wait to be published, unfortunately.

He fully appreciates the fact that the believers locally, in different parts of the world, often feel that their political party is in many ways striving to accomplish ideals akin to our Bahá’í aims—but the fact remains that the only way for the Bahá’ís to preserve their international character, their unity and integrity, is for them individually to sacrifice these desired political affiliations for the universal good and protection of the Faith.  There is no political party in existence with whose platform we wholly agree, and we must abstain from membership in such parties.  Likewise people who join the Faith must have the courage and conviction to leave their political affiliations behind.

There is no reason why this should cause enmity as they are not joining another party, but a universal Faith striving for the advancement of the entire human race.  He thinks there is very little possibility of any politician joining the Faith.  The sacrifice of such individuals’ personal ambitions is too great a one for them to make!

The condition of the world today is such that it is obvious no political solution to its problems is going to be found.  We Bahá’ís must therefore concentrate on Bahá’u’lláh’s World Order—the true solution.

He assures you he will pray your teaching labours may be very successful.  He will also pray for your dear mother’s welfare.

With warmest greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your welfare and success in the service of our beloved Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

7 January 1948 [Yerrinbool Summer School]

ASSURE ATTENDANTS SUMMER SCHOOL LOVING FERVENT PRAYERS ACTIVITIES CONSOLIDATION EXPANSION INSTITUTION SHOGHI

4 February 1948 [Ethel Dawe]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated January 12th, has been received, and he has instructed me to write to you on his behalf.

He was very pleased to hear of the valuable service you have been able to render the Cause through your visits to the Bahá’ís in Perth.  What they seem to need is a settler there who will actively stimulate the work and form an Assembly, and he hopes that the Nat.  Assembly will find someone for this post.

He trusts that by now you have entirely recovered from the effects of your operation and are able to continue your many Bahá’í activities.

Please inform dear Mother Dunn that he has no objection to Thelma Perks writing him, although he is, indeed, very busy these days.  Also tell her he remembers her in his prayers, and hopes she is well.

You may be sure that he will pray that you may be guided to do that which is for your highest good and the good of the Cause.

With loving greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless, sustain and guide you in your meritorious labours, reward you for your splendid accomplishments, aid you to extend continually the range of your activities, and win notable victories for His Faith and its institutions.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

27 February 1948 [Thelma Perks]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated February 15th has been received, and he is very happy to have this opportunity of writing you and personally welcoming you into the service of our glorious Faith.

The main thing is that now you are a believer, and he hopes your services will be such as to make up for the years you feel you have lost.

He sees no objection at all to sending Miss Shampson’s book on Mary Magdalene to Mr Rank.

Please give his loving greetings to dear Mother Dunn, and assure her she is often in his thoughts and prayers.

He will certainly pray for you and that your services to the Faith may be richly blessed.

With loving greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of a most hearty welcome into the Bahá’í Faith, and of my loving prayers for your spiritual advancement and success in the service of our beloved Faith and its God-given institutions,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

15 March 1948 [Collis Featherstone]

Mr H. C. Featherstone

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated February 25th, has been received, and he has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He is very happy indeed to hear you now will have your own Spiritual Assembly in Woodville.  This is an important addition to the Faith in Australia, and enhances its prestige and influence.  He was also delighted to hear of your other teaching activities carried on in neighbouring towns.

As regards the questions you asked:

1.	There is no significance, as far as our teachings are concerned, to “40”.

2.	The “Risen Christ” is the consciousness that came to His disciples, grieving over His death, of His living reality; it was not a physical thing but a spiritual realization.

3.	Bahá’u’lláh was not aware of His own station prior to His experience in the Síyáh-Chál of Ṭihrán.  He Himself says so by implication in His Tablet to the Sháh.

4.	In general the administrative order as laid down in America should be followed everywhere.  But secondary decisions are left to the judgement of each National Assembly, and the American pattern, as elaborated in “Bahá’í Procedure” need not be followed universally.

He wishes you and all the dear friends there, every success in your labours for the Faith, and assures you of his loving prayers on your behalf.

Please tell dear Miss Carpenter he was very pleased to hear she is serving there.

With warm Naw-Rúz greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

2 September 1948 [Yerrinbool School]

FERVENTLY PRAYING SUCCESS SCHOOL SESSION DELIBERATIONS ASSEMBLY VICTORIES TEACHING FIELD SHOGHI

16 October 1948

Mr and Mrs Alvin Blum

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of May 31st took a very long time to reach our beloved Guardian—as you can see—but it arrived at last, and he was delighted with the news it contained.

The fact that there are now isolated Bahá’ís and little groups forming in different parts of New Zealand shows that at last the Faith there has really settled down to grow, and is in the stage of definite expansion at last.  He was very happy to hear Mr Blum had visited Australia.  This association with the Australian believers will serve to bring closer the two communities working

under one NSA and stimulate the work in both places.  As long as Mr Blum is so satisfactorily settled in business, a business which enables him to travel so widely and help the friends in various cities, he sees no urgent need for you to move away from Auckland.  But he hopes in the future the way will open for you to do pioneer work in Wellington.

The assistance you are giving our beloved Faith in the Antipodes is very greatly appreciated, and his loving prayers surround you both in your devoted services there.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker,

Your splendid services, so far afield, under such difficult circumstances, and with so few helpers, are indeed highly praiseworthy in the estimation of our Beloved, and will be regarded as an example worthy to emulate by the pioneers in the days to come.  You are, I assure you, often in my thoughts and prayers, and I will continue to supplicate on your behalf the richest blessings of the Almighty.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

18 October 1948 [National Youth Committee]

MAY THE ALMIGHTY BLESS YOUR EFFORTS GUIDE YOUR STEPS AID YOU TO PROMOTE EFFECTIVELY THE MANIFOLD INTERESTS OF THE FAITH WHICH YOU LOVE SO DEARLY AND SERVE WITH SUCH DEVOTION AND ENABLE YOU TO REALIZE THE DEAREST WISH OF YOUR HEART IN ITS SERVICE YOUR TRUE AND GRATEFUL BROTHER SHOGHI

26 December 1948

Miss Alice Deakin and Miss Olive Bunn

Dear Bahá’í sisters:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated December 8th has been received, and he has instructed me to answer you both on his behalf.

He is delighted to hear the work is going forward in Perth, and that Mr Perdu was able to give you so much enthusiastic support.  He hopes now, with this new impetus, that you will be able to enlarge your activities and establish a thriving Bahá’í Community there.

Regarding your question about re-incarnation:  we Bahá’ís do not believe that one individual soul keeps returning to this earthly life in different bodies.  This is a very ancient belief, and based on a great truth—namely that the soul does go on developing and unfolding and returning towards its Creator.  But the concept of its returning to this physical world is erroneous, and an outgrowth of man-made doctrines which have grown up about the fundamental concept

of the progress of the soul.  It would be like putting the child over and over again back into the world of the womb.  It is unnecessary:  but from state to state spiritually, after death.  the soul does go on and go higher, so to speak.

He assures you both of his loving prayers for the success of your Bahá’í labours.

With cordial greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless your efforts, guide your steps, remove all obstacles from your path, and enable you to further the vital interests of His Faith and its institutions,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

2 January 1949 [Yerrinbool Summer School]

DELIGHTED ASSURE ATTENDANTS NEWLY ENROLLED FAMILY LOVING FERVENT PRAYERS MAY SCHOOL SESSIONS PROVE LANDMARK PROGRESS FAITH LEND TREMENDOUS IMPETUS UNFOLDMENT PLAN DEEPEST LOVE SHOGHI RABBANI

2 January 1949

Mr and Mrs Alvin Blum Dear Bahá’í friends:

This is just a little note, from our beloved Guardian, to tell you your letter of December 4 was received, and he is very happy to hear of the new believers.

The Cause’s spread there in New Zealand is at last beginning to gain impetus, and he feels sure this is, in no small measure due to your presence.

He is delighted to hear of your plans for a summer school there, and also of the study class conducted in your home, and the response in South Island to advertisements about the Cause.

Again he assures you his loving prayers are offered for the success of your devoted services,

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my keen and abiding heartfelt appreciation of your splendid services to our beloved Faith, of my ardent and continued prayers for your success and for the realisation of your heart’s desire in the service of its new born God-given institutions,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

2 January 1949 [Jean Hutchinson-Smith]

LOVING REMEMBRANCE SHRINES SHOGHI RABBANI

12 January 1949 [Yerrinbool Summer School]

DELIGHTED GRATEFUL NOTABLE ACHIEVEMENT PRAYING INCREASE FERVOUR STILL GREATER EXTENSION HIGHLY MERITORIOUS LABOUR SHOGHI RABBANI

21 January 1949 [Ethel Dawe]

LOVING PRAYERS ACCOMPANYING YOU.  ADVISE EXTEND UTMOST ASSISTANT BRITISH BELIEVERS PROMOTION PLAN

21 January 1949 [New Zealand Summer School]

ASSURE ATTENDANTS HEARTFELT LOVING PRAYERS SUCCESS SESSION REALIZATION DEAREST HOPES DEEPEST APPRECIATION

8 March 1949 [Ethel Dawe]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated January 1st, has been received, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is very pleased over the prospect of your being able, during this year’s “rest” to render very valuable and much needed services in the teaching field.  As he already stated in his answer to your cable, which he hopes reached you via Australia, he is anxious for you to help the British Teaching Plan all you can.

In addition to this he feels that your attendance, at the next European Teaching Conference, would be of great inspiration to you, and also enable you to visit some of the continental centers and help the new Assemblies and pioneers.

On your way home—if, as you say, your ambitious and highly meritorious plan works out!—he would be particularly pleased if you could see the Sofia Bahá’ís and those in Turkey.  Beloved Marion Jack would be so grateful for even a glimpse of a believer from outside, after all these heroic years alone there, (she is now about 80!) and the friends in Turkey are now active and longing for help.  Enclosed you will find their addresses.

He wishes you every success and great happiness in this service you are about to undertake, and his loving prayers support you, you may be sure.

With warm love,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  He, too, is very sorry circumstances do not permit at present of pilgrims coming here.  We would all be delighted to see you again.

May the Almighty bless your highly valued and indefatigable services, aid you to reinforce the work being now accomplished by the British Bahá’í Community, and lend a great impetus, on your return, to the splendid progress achieved in your homeland by the dearly-beloved believers.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

22 March 1949 [James Heggie]

LOVING APPRECIATION ARDENTLY PRAYING FORMATION BRISBANE ASSEMBLY

22 April 1949 [Brisbane Local Spiritual Assembly]

APPRECIATE GREETINGS REJOICE ELECTION ASSEMBLY LOVING REMEMBRANCE SHRINES SHOGHI RABBANI

22 April 1949 [Perth Local Spiritual Assembly]

DELIGHTED ASSURE YOU PRAYERS HEARTFELT CONGRATULATIONS

30 April 1949 [National Convention]

ASSURE DELEGATES FRIENDS DEEPEST LOVING APPRECIATION NOBLE SENTIMENTS.  ARDENTLY PRAYING BEFITTING DISCHARGE SACRED RESPONSIBILITIES STEADY EXTENSION CONTINUED CONSOLIDATION MAGNIFICENT LABOURS AUSTRALIAN NEW ZEALAND BAHAI COMMUNITIES.  DEEPLY GRATEFUL HISTORIC SERVICES ALREADY RENDERED FAITH BAHAULLAH SHOGHI

30 May 1949 [National Youth Committee]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of April 30th has been received, and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He was delighted to hear of your holding the first National Youth Conference, and feels this is the beginning of a new period of development in the youth work out there, and that it will now go on to build up many youth groups and attract many fine, eager young people to the Faith.

Your work is one to which he attaches great importance.  In America, Europe and England a large percentage of the pioneers have been young people, and the services they have rendered have been of great value in forwarding the work of the various Plans.  He feels sure that in New Zealand and Australia the

same must prove true, and that the Bahá’í youth must and will come forward to share in the all-important pioneer activities.

He urges you to persevere with confident hearts.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Dear and Valued co-workers:

Your most welcome message brought great joy to my heart, and evoked my deep feelings of admiration for the spirit that animates you in the service of our beloved Faith.  I rejoice to learn of the work you have accomplished, and of your zeal and determination to promote the Six Year Plan.  I will ardently beseech our Beloved to crown your high endeavours with success, and enable you to achieve the desire of your hearts in His service, your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

22 August 1949

The Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Adelaide, Australia

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter, dated June 3, with attached correspondence, was received by the beloved Guardian, forwarded by the NSA, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He has written to the National Assembly about the whole matter of the local By-Laws and approved of some of their changes of the original New York By-Laws and instructed them not to change other portions; so he feels now the whole matter is clarified and the NSA can go ahead on the instructions they have received from him.

Naturally, we all realize that all Local Assemblies are under the jurisdiction of their National Assembly, just as at present all National Assemblies are watched over and instructed by the Guardian.  The Local Assembly cannot disregard its National Body, but has the right to appeal, as you have done, and to carry the matter to Shoghi Effendi himself.

The general principle has always been to encourage Local Assemblies to incorporate, but they do this with the knowledge of their NSA so as to ensure uniformity, and also so that weak Assemblies will not prematurely incorporate and perhaps later be forced to dissolve.  So your Assembly, by incorporating was certainly following the Guardian’s advice.

Now, however, that he has given full instructions to the NSA, he feels you must co-operate in every way with that Body, in order to hasten the day when the Government will grant incorporation nationally and locally.

He urges you all to concentrate on the teaching work, and assures you of his prayers.  He deeply values your loyal and devoted services to the Cause.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  The Guardian says there is no objection to the placing of a framed copy of the Enrolment Certificate on the wall of the meeting room of the Assembly, or Bahá’í Hall.

Dear co-workers:

I deeply appreciate the spirit that animates you in your meritorious services to our beloved Faith.  I cherish great hopes for your future work, and will fervently supplicate our Beloved to guide and sustain you in your incessant labours, aid you to extend continually the range of your beneficent activities, and win memorable victories for His Faith and its institutions in that far-away continent,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

20 October 1949

Miss Gretta S. Lamprill

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of September 4 reached our beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He appreciates your devotion, and your ceaseless service to the Cause of God, very much and feels that, in spite of the temporary set-backs in the work there in Hobart, the friends will succeed in holding the advantages they have gained after so many years of patient labour.

The work throughout Australia and New Zealand is now progressing at a much faster rate, and the foundations laid so faithfully and permanently by the dear Dunns are proving their strength and capacity to uphold the Administrative edifice now erected upon them.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

The services you have rendered, and are rendering, our beloved Faith, deserve indeed the highest praise, and I feel deeply grateful to you, and admire the spirit that so powerfully animates you.  Persevere in your noble endeavours, and rest assured that our beloved Master, whose Cause you serve, with such devotion, will watch over you and reward you for your labours.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

23 October 1949 [Lily Jean Hutchinson-Smith]

Mrs L. J. Hutchinson-Smith

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter dated September 23 has been received, with its enclosures, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He is sorry to hear you resigned from your Local Assembly as he feels that in spite of how much an individual may suffer over conditions he feels are not as they should be, he should nevertheless stick it out for the sake of serving the Cause, and showing a firm example of endurance and willingness to serve to the newer believers.  He knows this requires courage and self-sacrifice, but he feels you are capable of both.

The Guardian was not satisfied with some of the changes made in the By-Laws, and he wrote (recently) the NSA and in detail pointed out what could be changed and what was too great a departure from the original model.  He feels, therefore, that you and other friends who were justifiably disturbed about this matter, can now rest assured that the matter is clarified and the necessary action has been taken.

The difficulties, and the evidences of immaturity, which you mention in your letter are not confined to Australia.  They seem to be an inevitable phase in the growth of our Administration, which is so much more perfect than the believers called upon to create it!  There are bound to be many misunderstandings, and some small abuses, in erecting a system which is so different from the ways men are used to.  But we must not attach undue importance to these things, but look upon them as a mother looks upon the mistakes of her children, realizing that with maturity will come the capacity to handle situations better and with more sound judgement.

The Guardian has encouraged the breaking up of large communities, wherever possible, in order to form more Assemblies.  This process produces at first a weakening effect, naturally, on the larger communities; but it is essential and the results will soon be seen to offset the disadvantages.

He urges you to continue your devoted services to the Cause, with a mind at rest, confident that those conditions which distress you so much are only a phase and will soon pass away.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Dear co-worker:

I wish to appeal to you in person not to feel discouraged nor to relax in your efforts for the promotion of the interests of the Faith and a better understanding of the administrative principles by the believers in that land.  The Beloved will surely bless your efforts and remove all obstacles from your path if you persevere,

and will enable you to fulfil your heart’s desire.  I will pray ardently for your welfare and success.  Rest assured and persevere,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

18 November 1949 [Ethel Dawe]

REGRET VISIT STILL INADVISABLE DEEPLY APPRECIATE SERVICES LOVE SHOGHI

23 November 1949

Miss Kitty Carpenter

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of October 28 has been received, and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

First, let me say how very deeply he appreciates the services you have been rendering our glorious Faith in Australia, and particularly Perth, during the past two years.  Your trip has been of real assistance to the teaching work, and it pleased him greatly.

Regarding …:  it was with the approval of the Guardian that his name was removed from the voting list.  It is very bad for the Cause to have a member of the Community, actively, in the public eye, teaching the Faith, and at the same time showing dishonest characteristics.  We cannot possibly say that because a person also has many virtues, faults as grave as lying and dishonourable conduct regarding money, can be overlooked!  This means that we tolerate as representatives of our Faith people who flagrantly disobey its laws and fundamental teachings.  This does not mean there is no hope for …; let him change his conduct, if he really loves the Cause, and then a way will be opened for him to again be active.  But the change must be real and obvious; mere protestations will serve no purpose.

He urges you to continue your services in the teaching field in New Zealand, and also to write to the friends in Australia who are disturbed about …, and strengthen their faith and determination.

With warmest greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty, Whose Cause you serve with such zeal and devotion, reward you for your labours, and graciously assist you to win great victories for His Faith and its institutions,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

30 November 1949 [Kirsten Sanderson Perdu]

ASSURE WRIGHT PRAYERS

18 December 1949

The Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Auckland, New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of October 25 was received, and our Guardian was delighted to hear the details of this property you have purchased, and which he trusts will grow to be a very important Bahá’í endowment.  He will be pleased to receive the pictures of it.

He felt that no name could be more befitting than that of dear father Dunn.  May the spirit this wonderful soul exemplified stream forth from your school and quicken those Islands.

With Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless bountifully your meritorious labours, guide and sustain you, at all times and under all circumstances, aid you to overcome every obstacle that confronts you, and enable you to lend a tremendous impetus, in the days to come, to the progress of your historic work in that promising and far-away Island.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

P.S.  Since writing this letter yours of November 29, has been received.  He will certainly pray for the success of your Summer School sessions, so soon to begin, and for the speedy development of the new school property you have just purchased.

18 December 1949

Mr Bertram Dewing

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of November 1st was received, and, although our beloved Guardian is so busy at present on the Shrine work here that his mail is piling up alarmingly, he does want to send you a word of appreciation for your fine, constructive spirit and the services you are rendering the Faith.

Vicious criticism is indeed a calamity.  But its root is lack of faith in the system of Bahá’u’lláh, (i.e. the administrative order), and lack of obedience to Him—for He has forbidden it!  If the Bahá’ís would follow the Bahá’í laws in voting, in electing, in serving, and in abiding by Assembly decisions, all this

waste of strength through criticising others could be diverted into cooperation and achieving the Plan.  Keep on trying to point this out to them!

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  He wishes your book every success.

Assuring you of my loving prayers for the success of every effort you exert for the promotion of our beloved Faith, and the realization of every desire you cherish for its progress,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

28 December 1949

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Adelaide

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of December 14 has been received, as well as its enclosures, and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He sympathises with you in your feeling of distress about the immediate consequences which will follow upon carrying out the instructions of your NSA regarding the formation of groups in the various municipalities about Adelaide proper.  However, he feels that your feelings are largely caused by a certain degree of confusion in your minds about the administration.

In the United States this principle has already been put into effect some years ago, namely that a Spiritual Assembly should be constituted by voting believers resident within the civic limits of any given place.  At first this change-over caused difficulties and confusion in many centres, particularly large and old ones, like your own there in Adelaide, but it greatly strengthened the Cause, put the administration on a firm and logical foundation from a legal point of view as well as an administrative one, increased not only the number of Assemblies but also the number of groups, and gave more believers a chance to function actively.

The time has now come when the same thing can and must be done in Australia.  Your Assembly and Community should look upon this as a challenge and an opportunity to assist the Faith to expand, not only locally but nationally.

The Guardian does not consider that local difficulties, such as tram lines, etc., can be allowed to stand in the way of a national policy, which is what this change is—a new national policy given your NSA by the Guardian himself.

Because of the national character of the change involved there was no necessity for your NSA to consult any Local Assembly.  It is the right and duty of the NSA to manage the national affairs of the community at large.

Likewise, he does not feel that any of your community members should feel they are having their vote taken from them.  If they moved away and became isolated believers, under normal circumstances, they would lose their vote.  In future, when your country passes through this transitional period, and you have believers spread more evenly over your states, the state will be the unit, not the Assembly (which is now the case in America), and then every Bahá’í isolated or otherwise, will have a vote.

It will be seen, therefore, that the sooner Adelaide puts into operation the plan outlined for them by their NSA, the sooner will this period of transition be passed.  Also, it will hasten the day when all Local Assemblies can be incorporated and receive recognised status, along with their NSA, from the government.

Judging from the many letters he has received from Australia dealing with administrative details, he feels the friends there are attaching too much importance to it.  Administration is to facilitate teaching work primarily.  It is not something to be over-elaborated and become a source of dissension amongst the believers.

He hopes, now that he has frankly pointed out to you what must be done, you will do it not only with minds at rest as to the wisdom of the NSA’s plan, but also with hearts thrilled by the challenge of this opportunity—for it is an opportunity—to build up new Assemblies, new groups, and give more of your Adelaide members a chance to become active in both the teaching work and on the future Assemblies.

With warmest greetings,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  He feels he should call your attention to the fact that this separation does not mean none of the believers residing in greater Adelaide cannot hold, for instance, joint anniversaries or Holy Days together, or Feasts, or public meetings.  It is the general principle of an Assembly within a civil area which is involved.

May the Almighty bless continually your efforts, guide and sustain you in your constant and meritorious activities, remove every obstacle that hinders the progress of your beneficent work in the service of His Faith, and assist you to win memorable victories for its newly-born divinely appointed institutions,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

29 December 1949 [New Zealand Summer School]

ASSURE ATTENDANTS SUPPLICATING RICHEST BLESSINGS DELIBERATION

15 January 1950

Mrs Hilda Thomas

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Your cabled message to our beloved Guardian reached him, and he has instructed me to answer it by airmail on his behalf, as what he would like to say is better expressed this way than in a cablegram.

He thinks you should by all means write the biography of our dear Bahá’í sister, Mrs Axford, who was such an old, loyal and devoted believer.  Such histories will mean a great deal more in the future than we can appreciate at present, and you should, therefore, devote yourself to compiling and presenting the facts as thoroughly and authentically as possible.

He wishes you every success in this service you are rendering to one of the earliest and dearest of those believers associated with the development of the Faith in New Zealand, and he will pray that you may be guided and assisted in this work and in all you do for the Cause of God.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

25 January 1950 [Lilian Wyss]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of December 22, with enclosures, was received, and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He knew there was an Australian Bahá’í in Switzerland, and is now most happy to have this contact with you, and on such an auspicious occasion as your offering to do pioneer service in Europe!

He fully approves of your offering your services to the European Teaching Committee as a pioneer.  There can certainly be no reason for a non-American Bahá’í to serve in this capacity!  In the British Isles many pioneers are Persian or Egyptian or of some other nationality than British, and they are ardently working to achieve the goals of the British believers’ Plan.  Likewise, as you know many of those serving in Switzerland are Oriental Bahá’ís.

He will pray that your family may accept this with a good spirit, and that you may fulfil your heart’s desire.

With warmest greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless your high endeavours, guide you in your pioneer services, aid you to overcome every obstacle, and win memorable victories for His Faith and its nascent institutions.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

18 February 1950 [Jean Hutchinson-Smith]

Mrs L. J. Hutchinson-Smith

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of January 20 has been received by our beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

Your wonderful trip, so full of enriching experiences, has no doubt fitted you to be much more active in the teaching field in Australia and the Guardian hopes you will accomplish great things in this all-important branch of service.  Distressing to you as many things have been in the Bahá’í administrative work there, he does not feel that the “growing pains” are any more grave than many he has seen in other countries!  Unfortunately, the friends are all, for the most part, spiritually immature; if it is not one problem it is another,

invariably, which springs up to test and try one’s patience and steadfastness!

He does not feel that a person away from home for a prolonged trip can continue to vote in the home elections.

The Guardian urges you to persevere in your services and your efforts to unite the friends in love and devotion.  Time will overcome many of the difficulties, and greater vision will help, too!

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Dear and valued co-worker:

I wish to assure you of my loving and deepfelt appreciation of your constant and manifold services to our beloved Faith.  I will supplicate the Beloved to bless continually your high endeavours, to remove every obstacle from your path, and enable you to win great victories for its institutions,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

20 March 1950

Mrs Bertha Dobbins

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of December 12 was received, and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.  He would have replied sooner had

he not been so frightfully busy this winter, and had he not, just about the time your letter came, been writing to Adelaide anyway.

He hopes that by now the whole thing has been settled.  So many troubles in the Cause are caused by lack of a sound knowledge of the Administration; and, like a great deal of knowledge, the only way to get it to sink deep is by the painful process of trial and error!  The friends must be patient not only with each other but also with themselves.  They must also really make an effort to put aside the habit of such bitter attacks on their NSA, their Local SA, or on individuals.  These only harm the Faith and veil those who make them from the light of guidance.

The Guardian is praying that the situation in Adelaide may improve and that the friends may concentrate on the essential work of increasing their numbers and forget about such a secondary question as whether they are divided into a series of groups in various local municipalities or form one huge community in greater Adelaide.

With warmest greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless, sustain and guide you in your constant and deeply appreciated endeavours for the promotion of His Faith, and may He enable you to win great victories for its institutions,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

23 March 1950 [Jack Bean]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letters, dated 18 and 20 October, 1949 were received by our beloved Guardian, as well as the manuscript you forwarded him separately.  He invariably refuses to go over any manuscripts sent him by the friends, as he has no time to do so at all.  He regrets this necessity to refuse your request, but feels sure you will understand it is in no way personal.  It was very nice of you to send the dedication to him; he appreciated this very much.

He will now give you his sincere advice regarding Theosophy:  this teaching has done much for you and you owe it much; you might have never been receptive to the Bahá’í Faith if Theosophy had not stirred up your mind to thinking along new lines.  But when a child is born, out of mistaken loyalty it must not seek to cling to the womb.  The new life is fuller and better.  It can be grateful to the womb.  So you, now born into the fuller Light of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings, should not cling to Theosophy any longer.  You are, naturally, entirely free in this matter.  But before deciding for yourself what course you wish to pursue—to be a Bahá’í or a theosophist—he advises you to pray about the matters troubling you and meditate on them.  What the Master says about

re-incarnation we Bahá’ís must accept as true; the proofs and evidence to the contrary are subject to other interpretations than that of re-incarnation.

The Guardian will pray for your guidance and your progress in understanding.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your spiritual advancement and the success of your efforts for the promotion of our beloved Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

26 March 1950

Mr H. Fitzner, secretary Local Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Adelaide

Dear Bahá’í brother:

This is just a little note to acknowledge the receipt of your letter (with enclosures) dated 22 December 49.

By now the Guardian’s reply to your previous letter has no doubt reached you, and he trusts the Adelaide believers are feeling more reassured about matters, and are actively working towards the establishment of more and stronger Assemblies in that area.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless your efforts, guide and sustain you and enable you to contribute effectively to the multiplication and consolidation of the institutions of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

26 March 1950 [Ethel Dawe]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Because our beloved Guardian has delayed so long in answering your letters (dated May 18, July 17, and November 8, 1949, and January 2, 1950) you must not think he did not appreciate receiving them.  On the contrary, he was delighted to hear of all you could accomplish on the Continent and with the British Plan, and as he was in cable communication with you, he let your letters wait while he attended to more urgent ones.  He is often forced to do this, but feels sure the friends understand the reason for delay.  Your extended visit has been of great help to the friends in many places.

It was much more important for you to do what you did than to go back via India, and have so little time enroute to see the Bahá’ís.

It seems as if temporarily at least we must resign ourselves to the fact that people of real prominence in the world are too ambitious, too timid or too spiritually weak, to embrace the Faith and stand up for it.  However, contacts such as that you made with Countess Gowrie are very worthwhile.  They serve to make us known in higher circles and to create a favourable opinion of us.

The Guardian is sorry you should have been so near—in the Suez Canal—and yet not able to come here.  But as he has not made any exceptions he did not feel it would be fair to let you come when others, who have never seen Haifa, have been refused.  No doubt in the future the way will open.

He will particularly pray that your health may improve, and deeply values your devoted services and your love for the Cause.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved abundantly reward you for your recent notable international services to His Faith, guide, protect and sustain you always, remove every obstacle in your path, and graciously assist you to enrich the splendid record of your services to His Faith and its institutions.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

29 April 1950 [National Convention]

PRAYING FERVENTLY SUCCESS CONVENTION SHOGHI

1 May 1950 [National Convention]

ASSURE DELEGATES CONVENTION LOVING REMEMBRANCE SHRINES FERVENTLY SUPPLICATING ALMIGHTY BLESSINGS DELIBERATIONS MAY REDEDICATION PARTICIPANTS YIELD RICHEST FRUIT AND UNPRECEDENTED IMPETUS EXPANSION FAITH CONSOLIDATION MULTIPLICATION ITS INSTITUTIONS AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND TASMANIA SHOGHI

1 May 1950 [National Youth Conference]

WELCOME PLANS SUPPLICATING DIVINE BLESSINGS DELIBERATIONS SUCCESS HIGH ENDEAVOURS REALIZATION DEAREST HOPES

17 July 1950

Miss Leila V. Clark

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter dated June 25 reached our beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He hopes during your visit to England you will visit as many of the Bahá’í centers as possible, and stimulate and assist the friends all you can in their teaching work.

There is always a let-down after a period of intense effort, and the British Bahá’ís have worked very hard—and very successfully—for their Plan.  They must now beware not to lose the newly-created Assemblies, and any assistance and inspiration you can give them will be deeply appreciated, he feels sure.  He will pray for your success in rendering this service.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless your efforts, guide your steps, and enable you to promote the best interests of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

28 July 1950

Mrs Viva Rodwell

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated May 23, has been received, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is very happy to welcome you into this glorious Faith for this day, and hopes you, and your family, will be assisted by God in serving it.  You may be sure he will pray for you all.

As you perhaps know, we do not accept, except from recognised Bahá’ís, any money for Bahá’í work, because we feel this is our gift to the world!  But as soon as you are a registered believer, if you wish to contribute to the work on the Báb’s Shrine, he would be happy to accept it.  You can send it to him direct, or through the NSA, which ever you like.

With warmest greetings to you,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty guide, sustain and bless you, enable you to deepen your understanding of the essentials of His Faith, and promote effectively its best interests.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

25 August 1950 [Fiji Islands]

Bahá’í Group of Suva

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of June 29, and that written by your chairman and dated July 10, have been received by our beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf and to thank you for the brooches you sent.  He hopes you will study deeply the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, and become Bahá’ís not only in belief but, above all, in your acts.  It is to our conduct that the world must look for leadership.  Beautiful thoughts and high principles can be found everywhere, but to change our lives and live as God wishes us to is much more difficult.

The standard of Bahá’u’lláh is a standard measured by deeds.

He assures you he will pray for each and every one of you, and he wishes you every success in your Bahá’í work.

With cordial greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty guide and sustain you, aid you to lay a firm foundation for His Faith, and enable you to win great and memorable victories in its service,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

1 November 1950

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Auckland, New Zealand

Mr E. B. Dewing, secretary

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter on behalf of the Assembly, (as well as your personal note) dated July 6, have been received, but due to the pressure of work piled up during the long and serious illness of Mr Maxwell the Guardian’s correspondence has piled up unanswered for some time.

He is very pleased to hear the Cause is making progress in New Zealand and the friends unitedly serving, which is the most important thing of all.

He was also pleased to hear the Summer School property will gradually be developed and serve the friends and the Community at large in other ways.  He thanks you for the plan of it sent under separate cover.

He sends his loving greetings to all the members of the Assembly, and also would like to wish you success with your book.

With Bahá’í love,

R Rabbani

May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, remove all obstacles from your path, and enable you to win great victories for His Faith and its God-given institutions,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

1 November 1950

Mrs Bertha Dobbins

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter dated June 1st was received, together with the reports and clippings you were kind enough to send, and the Guardian would have replied to you sooner had he not been so busy and over worked.

He was very pleased to see you had been able to make such an extensive and useful teaching trip.

It is always most difficult to open people’s eyes to their own short-comings, and to pray for them, and encourage other members of the Community to do their share of the work, seems the best way to modify the influence of domineering characters.  So often such people are immature and do not mean to do any harm at all.

He was pleased to see you regard not being re-elected to the NSA as a God-sent opportunity to do more teaching.  It is very unfortunate, but often the friends consider administrative positions something to be coveted, whereas in reality they are a burdensome responsibility, and teaching is the greatest joy and blessing a believer can have.  He hopes you will be able to devote yourself more and more to this field of service.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving and deepfelt appreciation of your constant and strenuous labours in the service of our beloved Faith, and of my ardent prayers for the realization of every hope you cherish for its promotion and consolidation,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

14 November 1950

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Adelaide, South Australia

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of October 5 has been received, and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

He fully appreciates the feeling of distress Bahá’ís experience when they have to give up even an inch of hard-won ground!  But he thinks it best to comply with the instructions of the NSA and dissolve your incorporation, which you can always at a future date reconstruct.

Bahá’u’lláh always assists the solution of Bahá’í problems, and the Guardian feels confident that the entire question of incorporating the NSA and Assemblies will work out satisfactorily in the end.

We must always remember that the vast majority of Assemblies are as yet un-incorporated, and yet manage to carry on satisfactorily their Bahá’í work.  Incorporation, however, must remain the objective of all.

You must put a bold face on it, and inform any critics that this is a step demonstrating the unity of the believers and their solidarity in supporting the work on a national scale, and meantime re-double your teaching efforts.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Dear co-workers:

I wish to assure you of my profound appreciation of your exemplary devotion to the interests of our beloved Faith and of the spirit that so powerfully animates you in safeguarding its institutions, in consolidating its foundations and in extending the range of its influence.  You are often in my thoughts and prayers and I will continue to supplicate the Almighty to bless your high endeavours and aid you to win great and memorable victories in the days to come.  Be happy and persevere,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

14 November 1950 [Ethel Dawe]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of September 19 has been received, and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He has just written the Adelaide LSA informing them that he approves of their dissolving their incorporation in accordance with the instructions of the NSA.

He is watching the situation there carefully, and feels no real harm can be done by taking this step.  They can always re-incorporate at a future date.  He was touched to hear of the consideration you and the Fitzners are showing

dear Mother Dunn.  He will certainly pray she may be spared to serve our beloved Cause for many years to come.

The friends must concentrate on the teaching work, as this is the most vital of all; other details will work themselves out, especially as the number of Bahá’ís increases, and the Cause gains in prestige thereby.

You are often remembered and your services very deeply valued.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deep and abiding appreciation of the devotion, zeal and fidelity with which you are promoting the vital interests of our beloved Faith, and of my continued and ardent prayers for your happiness, success, and the realization of every hope you cherish for its promotion,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi.

18 December 1950

Bahá’í Group of Wanganui

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian was deeply touched to receive your contribution for the Shrine of the Báb, sent in your letter dated September 28, and for which I am enclosing a receipt.

He was also very glad to note you are two Bahá’í families there, and hopes through your labours your numbers will increase and you will be able to form a Spiritual Assembly.

With loving Bahá’í greetings to you all,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you, reward you abundantly for your labours, and enable you to promote the vital interests of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

5 January 1951 [New Zealand Summer School]

DEEPLY APPRECIATE MESSAGE ASSURE SCHOOL ATTENDANTS FERVENT PRAYERS SUCCESS HIGH ENDEAVOURS SHOGHI

10 February 1951

Miss Margaret L. Degotardi, LLB

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter dated 7 Sovereignty 107 [25 January 1951] has been received by our beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.  He feels that it would be quite impossible for a Bahá’í, even if they were an independent candidate for Parliament, to sit in that body without becoming involved in burning political issues one way or another.  As we look out on the world horizon today, we see that the political scene is becoming more involved and chaotic and the chief actors are impotent to solve the world’s problems.  This is not the arena for the Bahá’ís.  We must cast off from this sinking ship and devote ourselves exclusively to building up the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh which we know is the salvation for the entire planet.

There is nothing in the Teachings about chiropractic as a method of healing.  People are free to turn to it if they please and find help through it.

He hopes that your devoted services to the Cause will be blessed with success, and assures you of his loving prayers.

With warm greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for you success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

5 April 1951

Dear …,

Your letter of March 20th has been received; and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very sorry to hear that you are contemplating separation from your husband.  As you no doubt know, Bahá’u’lláh considers the marriage bond very sacred; and only under very exceptional and unbearable circumstances is divorce advisable for Bahá’ís.

The Guardian does not tell you that you must not divorce your husband; but he does urge you to consider prayerfully, not only because you are a believer and anxious to obey the laws of God, but also for the sake of the happiness of your children, whether it is not possible for you to rise above the limitations you have felt in your marriage hitherto, and make a go of it together.

We often feel that our happiness lies in a certain direction; and yet, if we have to pay too heavy a price for it in the end we may discover that we have not

really purchased either freedom or happiness, but just some new situation of frustration and disillusion.

In any case, the Guardian assures you that he will pray for your protection and guidance in the Holy Shrines, and for that of your dear children and Mr …, as well.

He urges you to persevere in the service of the Faith which has already blessed you so richly, and which, under your circumstances is your stronghold.

With warmest greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

29 April 1951 [National Convention, Australia and New Zealand]

APPRECIATE SENTIMENTS WELCOME DETERMINATION ASSEMBLED DELEGATES FRIENDS.  PRAYING FERVENTLY ENTIRE COMMUNITY REDEDICATE ITSELF SACRED HISTORIC TASKS BEFITTINGLY DISCHARGE INESCAPABLE RESPONSIBILITIES ATTAIN OBJECTIVES MOMENTOUS PLAN PROSECUTE VIGOROUSLY TEACHING WORK INITIATED BEYOND BORDERS HOMELAND CONTRIBUTE SHARE EXPANSION CONSOLIDATION UNDERTAKINGS LAUNCHED WORLD CENTRE FAITH.  MAY ASSEMBLED REPRESENTATIVES COMMUNITIES FOLLOWERS MOST GREAT NAME ANTIPODES LEND MEMORABLE ASSISTANCE BELIEVERS RESPECTIVE CENTRES ARISE UNITEDLY DETERMINEDLY CARRY TRIUMPHANT CONCLUSION FARREACHING ENTERPRISES LAUNCHED OPENING DECADE SECOND BAHAI CENTURY SHOGHI

28 June 1951 [Mariette Bolton]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letters dated May 13 and 27 have been received by our beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was delighted to hear of your intended trip to some of the Islands of the Pacific; this would, indeed, be a great service to the Cause, and he hopes you will make it.

Your family’s remarkable activity in the Faith must be a source of pride and happiness to you and your dear husband.  It is excellent to see these Bahá’í children arising and shouldering the burdens.

Regarding your question:  circumcision is not a part of our teachings, but if for reasons of health, the parents care to have a child circumcised there is nothing against it.  It should just be made clear that for us it has no religious significance.

The Guardian hopes that now you are free of the binding nature of administrative work on the NSA you will devote as much of your time to teaching as possible.  This is the most important service you can render, and he wishes you great success.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty abundantly reward you for your past and splendid services, aid you to fulfil your heart’s desire, and render in virgin territories beyond the confines of your homeland, great and memorable services to His Faith,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

P.S.  Enclosed please find a receipt for your loving contribution to the Shrine.  The photo sent was of interest, many thanks.

27 July 1951 [Leila Clark]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of June 18 has reached our beloved Guardian and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf, and to forward to you the enclosed receipt, for your loving contribution towards building the Shrine of the Báb.

He was happy you met so many friends in the course of your trip.  It stimulates them to contact one of their co-workers from so far away, and he feels sure you are now carrying back to the Australian believers a greater vision, thanks to your experiences.  Travelling amongst the Bahá’ís is not only a pleasure, but a great help to the work, and he hopes you will make other trips.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your loving contribution and of my fervent prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

30 July 1951 [Adelaide Spiritual Assembly]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of March 26 has just reached our beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He appreciated your message very much, and is happy to see that your Community, one of the oldest in Australia, responds with such joy to everything that affects the vital interests of the Cause of God.

He hopes your teaching activities are going ahead well, and a number of new Assemblies developing in that area thanks to the energy of the Adelaide Bahá’ís.

With warmest greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty guide every step you take in the path of service, bless every effort you exert, and fulfil every desire you cherish, for the promotion of His Faith and its institutions,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

30 July 1951

Dear …,

This is just a short note to acknowledge receiving your letter of June 29 and to thank you for the photos.

The beloved Guardian is pleased to see you are happier, and feels sure that in the degree to which we surrender our will to God’s Will are we blessed and guided in this World.

He urges you to go on teaching the Faith, and will pray for your success.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my prayers for the success of every effort you exert for the promotion of our beloved Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

21 August 1951 [Viva Rodwell]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of June 14 has been received, as well as your loving contribution for the work on the Holy Shrine, and the Guardian thanks you very much for it and encloses his receipt herewith.

He was delighted to hear of the progress in the teaching work in Brisbane, and congratulates you all on this excellent work.  He would like you to please give Jim Heggie his loving greetings and tell him he was so glad to learn of his activities.

You may be sure Shoghi Effendi will pray for you, your dear family, and the progress of the work there.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your contribution, and of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

27 August 1951 [Effie Baker]

Dear Effie,

The beloved Guardian was very pleased to receive your letter of July 23, and also the loving contribution you sent to the work being done on the Holy Tomb.  I am enclosing his receipt for the same herewith.

Yes indeed, you would not recognize the place now; the Gardens are truly beautiful, and also many lovely and befitting ornaments have been added to the interior of the three Shrines which, while preserving their peace and simplicity, have greatly added to their beauty.

Often Shoghi Effendi remarks that if you were in Haifa you would take some wonderful photos.  He considers no one has ever captured the beauty of the place as you did, and your photographs adorn his own rooms, and the archives and the Mansion, just as they did when you were with us!

He hopes you are well and happy, and he is delighted to see you are so active in serving the Cause there.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your loving contribution and of your unforgettable services at the World Centre of our beloved Faith, and of my prayers for the success of every effort you exert for its promotion.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

27 August 1951 [Gladys Pollard]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of July 27 has been received by the beloved Guardian, as well as your loving contribution to the Holy Shrine, and he is forwarding you herein his receipt.

He deeply appreciates the spirit of your services to the Cause of God, and wishes you every success in teaching the Faith.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your contribution, and of my loving prayers on your behalf,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

27 August 1951 [Clara Dunn]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of July 13 and he thanks you for your loving contribution to the Holy Tomb.  I am enclosing his receipt for the same.

He is so happy to see your health permits you to be ever active in the work so dear to our hearts, and he was particularly pleased to see you have visited Tasmania.  The Faith in Australia, established by you and your dear husband, has certainly flourished under your very eyes!

He will pray for dear Mrs Turner and her children, and for the success of the work you will be doing in conjunction with her.

With warmest love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your loving contribution, and of my deep and abiding appreciation of the long and splendid record of your achievements in the service of our beloved Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

5 September 1951 [Lily Jean Hutchinson-Smith]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of July 23 has been received, and the beloved Guardian thanks you very much for the loving contribution you sent for the Shrine.  I am enclosing his receipt.

He was most happy to see you are able to assist the German friends there, and hopes you will travel about, to the various centres, as much as possible.  They need the loving help and stimulation of friends from other lands after all their bitter years of separation from the rest of the Bahá’í world.

He wishes you every success, and appreciates your devotion very much.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved abundantly reward you for your manifold and notable services, sustain you in your meritorious activities, and enable you to win great victories in the service of His Faith,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

29 September 1951 [St. Peters Bahá’í group]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of August 30 has been received, as well as your kind contribution to the Shrine, and I am enclosing a receipt for it.

The beloved Guardian appreciated very much receiving this evidence of your interest in the important work going ahead at the World Centre of the Faith.

He will pray that, through your devoted efforts, an Assembly may soon be established there.

With loving greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your contribution, and of my loving prayers for the success of your high endeavours,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

30 September 1951 [Stanley P. Bolton]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of August 15 has been received, and the beloved Guardian thanks you for your loving contribution to the Shrine, a receipt for which is enclosed.  He is so happy to see you are following hot on the heels of your devoted parents, who so constantly serve the Faith!  He wishes you every success, and hopes other young people will follow your example.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your contribution, and of my loving prayers for your success in the service of our beloved Faith.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

30 October 1951 [Miss Alicia Hutchinson-Smith]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of September 22 has reached the Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He does not feel it would be advisable for you to try for a post in the Holy Land.  For two reasons; first, as he has not yet opened the door of pilgrimage it would be unfair to many who have been refused permission to come; and, second, because you could do so much more good elsewhere!  Is there any chance of your getting a job in Africa?  This would be ideal, for the work of the Cause there is progressing well and needs additional believers very much.

He hopes this answer does not disappoint you; no doubt you and your dear mother will have an opportunity in the future of visiting Haifa, and you will be most welcome, when the right time comes.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved guide, bless and sustain you, aid you to promote the best interests of His Faith, and win great victories in the days to come,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

15 November 1951 [St. Peters Bahá’í Group]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of October 4 has reached the beloved Guardian, and he thanks the St. Peters Bahá’ís for their loving contribution to the Shrine work, a receipt for which I am enclosing herewith.

He hopes, and will pray, that your group may soon achieve Assembly status, and thus add another pearl to the rapidly growing chain of Assemblies throughout Australia.

He is very proud of the activities of the believers out there, and of the way they are increasing in administrative ability and in the number of pioneer members who disperse to teach the Faith in new centres.

He urges you and your co-workers to redouble your efforts and never to feel discouraged.

With warmest greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you and your fellow-members of my deep appreciation of your contribution, and of my loving prayers on your behalf,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

15 November 1951 [Miss Marie Dunning]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Your letter of October 14 has been received, and the beloved Guardian thanks you very much for your loving contribution to the Shrine of the Báb, a receipt for which I am enclosing.

He trusts the Faith in your neighbourhood will steadily spread; he will pray for the success of your devoted labours.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your contribution, and of my loving prayers on your behalf,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

22 November 1951 [Thelma Perks and Irene Cover]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter dated October 8 reached the beloved Guardian, and he deeply appreciated receiving your loving contribution for the Shrine.  I am enclosing his receipt.

He wishes you both every success in your efforts to spread the Cause of God, and assures you of his loving prayers.

With warmest greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your contribution and of my loving prayers on your behalf,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

24 November 1951 [Fiji]

Mrs Zainab S. Khan

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter dated October 6th has been received, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer it on his behalf.

The Guardian was very sorry to hear of your sufferings, and he assures you he will pray for God to bless you because of your steadfastness in His Faith and your love for Him.

Although you are not happy at home, he feels it is better for you to remain in Fiji.  If you go, all alone, to another country you may find it hard to earn your living, and undergo other hardships as well.  Whereas in Suva you have friends, fellow-Bahá’ís who love you, and also work.

He urges you to be patient with your family.  Perhaps gradually your parents will come to admire your spirit, and be more tolerant of your being a Bahá’í.

He urges you also not to be discouraged, but to go on quietly serving the Faith all you can.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless, comfort and protect you, reward you for your labours, guide and sustain you, remove every obstacle from your path, and enable you to promote the best interests of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

4 December 1951

Noel Bluett

Dear Bahá’í brother,

Your letter of the 14th ‘Ilm has been received; and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was most happy to hear that you are rendering the Faith pioneer services; and assures you that he will supplicate in the Holy Shrines that your labours may be blessed, and yield a rich harvest of new believers.

He urges you to persevere, confident that ultimately success will be yours.

With warmest Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless richly your pioneer services, guide every step you take, remove every obstacle from your path, and enable you to promote the best interests of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

4 December 1951

Mrs Maysie Almond

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of October 17th, together with enclosure for the Shrine of the Báb, given in memory of your sister Clara Hancock and your brother Ley Hancock, has been received; and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to thank you on his behalf for your loving contribution, and to send you the enclosed receipt.

The efforts being exerted for the erection of this Holy Edifice, he is sure, will prove the means for the strengthening of the Faith in the hearts of the devoted believers in every land.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your contribution, and of my loving prayers for the success of your meritorious activities and services,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

16 December 1951 [Antoinette and James Lovelady]

Mr and Mrs J. C. Lovelady

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of November 20th, together with your loving contribution for the Shrine of the Báb, has been received; and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to write you, and to send you the enclosed receipt.

It is truly gladdening the heart of our Guardian to see the steady progress being made on this holy edifice; which is serving to draw the devoted believers all over the world closer to the World Center of their Faith.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your contribution, and of my loving prayers on your behalf,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

16 December 1951 [Gertrude Muller]

Mrs K. A. G. Muller, 349 Willarong Rd., Caringbah, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of November 21st, together with your kind contribution for the Shrine of the Báb, has been received; and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to write you on his behalf.

It greatly pleased our Guardian to know that you and your sister are such active and devoted believers; and he wishes me to assure you of his loving prayers at the Holy Shrines.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your contribution, and of my loving prayers on your behalf,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

30 December 1951 [New Zealand Summer School]

ASSURE ATTENDANTS FERVENT PRAYERS SUCCESS HIGH ENDEAVOURS SHOGHI

7 January 1952

Miss Gretta S. Lamprill

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of December 18th, together with your contribution for the Shrine of the Báb, has been received; and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to write you, and to send you the attached receipt.  He is deeply grateful for your loving gift toward this sacred enterprise, which gift was made possible through such a sacrifice; and which proves your awareness of the great bounty given to the devoted Bahá’ís of our day in being permitted to help in its prosecution.

The Guardian appreciates all your past efforts for our beloved Faith; and will offer for you his loving prayers at the Holy Shrines that you will be assisted to serve ever more and more the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your contribution, and of my loving prayers on your behalf,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

15 January 1952

Mrs Bertha Dobbins

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter dated the 12th of December, 1951, has been received; and on behalf of the beloved Guardian I am writing to assure you that we are arranging to have Mr Wachsverger visit the Shrine and Gardens with one of the friends.

Hoping you and your family are keeping well, and assuring you of the Guardian’s loving prayers.

With warmest greetings

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

7 February 1952 [Mariette and Walter Peterson]

Mr and Mrs W. O. Peterson

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of January 15th to our beloved Guardian, together with your loving contribution for the Shrine of the Báb, has been received; and he has instructed me to thank you on his behalf, and to send you the enclosed receipt.

As he is very busy these days with the affairs of the Faith in all parts of the world, this letter will be brief.

He urges you not to feel discouraged when you are faced with a lack of response, but, with a deep consciousness of the greatness of these days, to put your trust in Bahá’u’lláh, and go steadily forward, doing all in your power to serve and teach His Faith.

On his visits to the Holy Shrines, he will remember you in his loving prayers.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your contribution and of my loving prayers on your behalf,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

11 February 1952 [St. Peters Bahá’í Group]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of 23rd of January has been received, as well as your loving contribution to the Shrine fund, a receipt for which I am enclosing herewith.

The beloved Guardian was very happy to see the way you are persevering in your teaching efforts; and feels sure that you will be rewarded by an increase in membership.

He will continue to pray for your success in the Holy Shrines, and sends you his loving greetings.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your contribution and of my loving prayers on your behalf,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

11 February 1952

Millway, Mrs Margaret J.

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of January 28th to our beloved Guardian, as well as your loving contribution for the Shrine of the Báb, has been received; and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf, and to send you the enclosed receipt.

He is extremely busy these days, so this letter will be brief; but he assures you he deeply appreciates your devotion to the Cause, and remembers you in his loving prayers at the Holy Shrines.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your contribution, and of my loving prayers on your behalf,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

22 February 1952 [Viva Rodwell]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer your letter of February 4th, enclosing your loving contribution for the Shrine of the Báb; and to send you a receipt.

As the Guardian is extremely busy at the present time, this note will be brief—just to assure you of his appreciation, and of his loving prayers in the Holy Shrine.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my deep appreciation of your contribution and of my loving prayers on your behalf,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

28 February 1952 [Clara Dunn]

MOVED CONVEY GLAD TIDINGS YOUR ELEVATION RANK HAND CAUSE.  APPOINTMENT OFFICIALLY ANNOUNCED PUBLIC MESSAGE ADDRESSED ALL NATIONAL ASSEMBLIES.  MAY SACRED FUNCTION ENABLE YOU ENRICH RECORD SERVICES ALREADY RENDERED FAITH BAHAULLAH

3 March 1952

Noel Bluett

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of February 9th has been received, and the Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf, and to thank you and your fiancée and Mr Wyss for the sum you forwarded for the construction of the Shrine.  I am enclosing receipts covering these contributions.

He will pray that your teaching efforts there may be richly rewarded; and hopes that you and your fiancée will be united in the service of God, and be enabled to accomplish many things together.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers on your behalf and of my deep appreciation of your contribution,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

14 April 1952

Mrs Mariette G. Bolton

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of March 23rd, and has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was delighted when he received the news that you had gone to New Caledonia.  Indeed, it would be hard to convey to you the joy it brings to the heart of our Guardian when he sees the Bahá’ís go forth into distant and foreign fields.

Now your letter has come, giving him the wonderful news of the declaration of the first Bahá’í in Noumea; and it seems unbelievable that yet another beacon of Bahá’u’lláh has been lit so far away.  You must be very happy at this great blessing He has vouchsafed you.

Please assure Melle Féminier of a most warm welcome into the service of the Faith from the Guardian, and keep yourself in close touch with her, in order to foster the work in this place that you have opened for the Cause of God.

The Guardian deeply appreciates your services and those of your devoted family, and assures you all of his loving prayers.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty abundantly reward you for your splendid pioneer services, your high endeavours and meritorious accomplishments, guide every step you take, and enable you to enrich continually the record of your unforgettable achievements, your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

27 April 1952 [National Convention]

DEEPLY TOUCHED CONVENTION MESSAGE ASSURE DELEGATES LOVING FERVENT PRAYERS SURROUNDING THEM URGE REDOUBLE EFFORTS ATTAINMENT OBJECTIVES PLAN PAVE WAY LAUNCHING CRUSADE BEYOND CONFINES AUSTRALIAN CONTINENT HEARTFELT GRATITUDE NOBLE DETERMINATION SHOGHI

30 April 1952 [Viva Rodwell]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of April 8th has been received, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was delighted to hear that Betty Anderson is not only such a devoted and active Bahá’í youth, but that she has aboriginal blood.  He hopes that she will be instrumental, with your help, and that of the other believers, in carrying the Message to her relatives.  It is only right that the people who were the original inhabitants of Australia should receive the Teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, and we cannot doubt that when they embrace them, it will have a great effect, not only on their characters, but on their position in relation to the life of their country.

He was very happy to hear you are all so active in serving the Faith there, and assures you one and all of his loving prayers.

With Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to further the best interests of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

30 April 1952

Miss Thelma Perks

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your gracious letter of April 8th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has asked me to acknowledge it on his behalf.  A receipt for the contribution which you so kindly made to the Shrine of the Báb, is attached herewith.

The Guardian has been greatly delighted with the reports he has received of the extensive teaching work being done by the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand.  He has great hopes for the future progress of the Faith in your country.

You will be interested to know that the work on the Shine of the Báb is going forward.  It is daily becoming more beautiful.  The marble work of the octagon has been completed, and the beautiful pinnacles have been put in place.  The Guardian is hoping this work may continue uninterruptedly, so as to be completed early next year.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

I am Leroy Ioas,

Assistant Secretary

4 May 1952

Mrs Bertha Dobbins

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of April 11th with enclosures has been received; and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He has directed one of the friends to write to Paris, and ask the friends to get in touch with your acquaintance who is proceeding there.

He was very happy to hear of the teaching opportunities that have been afforded you and your dear daughter in the school there; and he will pray that your work for the Faith, and that of your family may be richly blessed.

The Cause seems to be going forward by leaps and bounds all over the world; and this rejoices his heart, and of course, the hearts of all the believers.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you always, and enable you to promote the vital interests of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

7 May 1952

Mrs Clara Dunn

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Your letter of April 21st has been received, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

It was not without conviction that the beloved Guardian appointed you a Hand of the Cause.  He feels that your long and steadfast pioneer service in Australia certainly entitles you to this distinction; and he feels sure that the believers of that continent rejoice that they are able to have in their midst one of the Hands.

He assures you of his most loving prayers on your behalf in the Holy Shrines; and urges you to take care of your health, and to constantly encourage the friends in their teaching endeavours, and to do all you can to promote unity and love amongst them, as this is the main-spring of Bahá’í success.

With warmest Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Whether Effie should live with you or not in the Ḥaẓíra is a question for you and the NSA to decide.

May the Almighty guide and sustain you always, aid you to enrich the record of your splendid services to His Faith, and win still greater victories,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

23 May 1952

Miss Else Norden Waldman

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of November 25th 1951 and your two letters of April 4th 1952, and I have been instructed to answer you on his behalf.

He was happy to hear of the teaching work you have done in New Zealand with the help of Mrs Gertrude Blum, and the three Persian boys from Massey College, and he will pray that the seeds which you have so lovingly scattered in Wellington will develop, and that devoted Bahá’ís will appear through your efforts, in that land.

Naturally, the Guardian was delighted to hear that you are going to Fiji, as he attaches the greatest importance to the work of teaching in the islands of the Pacific and this should be a very fertile field for a Bahá’í pioneer.

He feels it would be excellent if you could find it possible to follow your profession as a nurse and is happy to know that you are armed with the names of some contacts in that new field of service.  The Guardian is hopeful that the believers in Suva and you will through your united and dedicated services in the Fiji Islands attract to yourselves bounties which will not only rejoice your hearts, but astonish you.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your services and spiritual advancement.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

4 June 1952

Miss Lilian Wyss [Switzerland]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of May 24th has been received, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He deeply appreciates the spirit which animates you, and your ardent desire to serve the Cause in any way you can.

The goals necessary for the formation of the Italo-Swiss National Assembly next year have been achieved, and there is no doubt that the Assembly will come into being.  Therefore, he feels that, if it is possible for you to return to Australia and render pioneer service there, in order to enable your own country not to fail in its Plan, that this would be very important.  It is so vital that the Plans inaugurated by the National Assemblies should reach fruition and be crowned with success by 1953.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty guide and sustain you always, and enable you to promote at all times the vital interests of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

11 June 1952 [James Maxwell]

Mr J. Y. C. Maxwell

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Honorary Secretary, St. Peters Bahá’í Group.

Your loving letter of May 24th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has asked me to acknowledge it in his behalf.

The contribution that you made to the Shrine of the Báb Fund is deeply appreciated.  Enclosed is receipt.

The Guardian greatly appreciates the loving devotion of the friends in St. Peters.  He sincerely hopes your unity and service to the Faith will result in establishing a strong Spiritual Assembly.

Now is the time for intensive teaching work, and all those who arise and enter the teaching field will find they are greatly confirmed.

You will be interested to know that work has been resumed on the Shrine, and the third crown, the drum, is now being constructed.  The Guardian hopes this work can continue until it is entirely completed.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

Leroy Ioas, Assistant Secretary

11 June 1952

Miss Kitty Carpenter

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your two letters of May 25th have been received, and the beloved Guardian thanks you for them, and for the loving sympathy which you express.

He hopes that you will make every effort to attend the New Delhi Conference, as it will be a very historic occasion, and the more Bahá’ís from Australia and New Zealand that are present, the better.

You should get in touch with the Indian National Spiritual Assembly as regards accommodation etc.

This has been a very tiring winter for the beloved Guardian.  He has had so many pilgrims, and so many problems locally, and an ever-increasing amount of work, so I will make this letter brief.

He assures you your services are deeply appreciated, and that he will remember you in his prayers.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to promote the best interests of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

18 June 1952

Miss Alicia M. Hutchinson Smith

Dear Miss Smith:

Your loving letter of June 3rd has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has asked me to acknowledge it in his behalf.

The contribution which you and your mother have made to the Shrine of the Báb is deeply appreciated by him.  Receipt is enclosed herewith.

The Guardian greatly values the work of all of the Bahá’ís in Australia and New Zealand, and the very intensive manner in which they are serving the Faith.  He is particularly appreciative of the very active part which your good mother is taking in this most important Bahá’í service.  The Guardian will pray for the success of her work, as well as her and your spiritual service.  The work on the glorious Shrine of the Báb is proceeding.  The stone work on the drum is being put in place.  The Guardian is very hopeful that this work may continue uninterruptedly until the entire building is completed.

With loving Bahá’í greetings, I am,

Leroy Ioas, Assistant Secretary

30 August 1952

Clara Dunn

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your recent letter was received, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very pleased to hear you are comfortably and happily installed in the Ḥaẓíra and able to help and encourage the friends.  So often they need deepening more than anything else in the fundamental spiritual values of our Faith, and old and tried believers like yourself can be of great inspiration in this respect.

Australia, during the next ten years will have a big mission to carry out, and the friends must prepare themselves for it.  Detailed plans will be shared at the time of the New Delhi Conference, which he hopes a number of friends from Australia and New Zealand will be able to attend.

He sends you his loving greetings, and will pray that you may serve the Faith you love so dearly for many years to come.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless guide and sustain you always, cheer your heart, and enable you to continually enrich the splendid and long record of notable services you have rendered the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

17 October 1952

Margaret Degotardi

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of 1st Might [8 September] has been received, and our beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

Regarding the question you raised in your letter:  as there is no reference in the Bahá’í Teachings to a change in the mathematical systems in use at present we cannot as Bahá’ís advocate such a change as you suggest.  If any nation or people in future desire to adapt a system such as you propose, they would of course be free to do so quite independent of us.

The names of the Bahá’í months are written in Persian or Arabic in the usual way, and have no special symbols.  Any one familiar with one of these languages could write them for you.

The Guardian hopes you will devote as much time as possible to the teaching work in Australia, and will pray for your success.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

18 October 1952 [Margaret and Patrick Carey]

Mr and Mrs Patrick Carey

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your postcard of greeting, sent to the beloved Guardian enroute to Australia, has been received, and he has instructed me to acknowledge it on his behalf.

There is so much work ahead for the friends everywhere in these great days, when the Bahá’í world is about to enter upon a World Crusade, and the

Guardian is hopeful that your services in Australia will prove to be of great assistance to the progress of the Faith in that land.

He sends you both his loving greetings.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved guide your steps, and enable you to promote the best interests of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

25 October 1952 [Else Nordon]

APPROVE AFRICA

11 November 1952

Mr Stanley Bolton, Sr.

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of October 22nd has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is very happy to see that you are planning to attend the New Delhi Conference, with your dear wife.  During your trip through the United States and Canada, he urges you to impress on the friends the importance of the New Delhi Conference, and of the tremendous amount of work to be done during the next ten years by the eight National Spiritual Assemblies who will be represented there.

It would also be excellent if, on your way to the Holy Land, you could visit as many of the European Centers as feasible.  Meeting the Bahá’ís from far-off Australia would encourage and stimulate the friends immensely, he feels sure.  You should arrange to be in Haifa as late in October as will be feasible, in order to enable you to arrive for the opening of the Conference in New Delhi after your nine day pilgrimage.  Please plan to arrive not earlier than October 7th.

Please inform him, when you know your plans, of what date that will be.

The devoted services that you and your dear family have rendered the Faith and are constantly rendering it, please him immensely, and he assures you all of his loving prayers.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you always, and aid you to render memorable services to His Faith, your true brother,

Shoghi

22 November 1952 [Haifa, Israel]

Mrs Maysie Almond

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of recent date addressed to the beloved Guardian has been received, and he has asked me to acknowledge it on his behalf.

Your contribution to the Shrine of the Báb, given in loving memory of Madeline Almond and James Almond, is very deeply appreciated.  Receipt is enclosed herewith.

There is no doubt that this contribution will bring great joy to your dear ones in the realms beyond, as it associates their names with the building of the Shrine on Mount Carmel.

The construction work on the drum of the Shrine is going forward quite rapidly.  The tall columns between the windows are rapidly nearing completion, adding to the beauty of this glorious structure.  The Guardian is hopeful that this work can continue until the building is completely finished.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

Leroy Ioas, Assistant Secretary

P.S.  The Guardian is very hopeful that you will be able to actively engage in the teaching work.  Great responsibilities have come to all the believers, particularly during the next ten years, and he is hopeful that you will be able to take a very active part in this Crusade.

Your letter mentions a draft for … Sterling.

29 November 1952 [New Zealand]

Mr and Mrs Alvin Blum

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of November 13th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He would be very happy to see you here after the Indian Conference, but suggests that the middle of November would be a better date than the first.  If this does not work in with your plans, he suggests that you arrange on your return to Australia, to pass through Haifa, rather than on your way to the United States.  Either way would suit him, but please inform us of the date you plan to be here, well in advance.

He feels sure the conference in New Delhi will be of tremendous interest, and it certainly will deal with one of the most vital aspects of the coming Ten Year Plan.  He was most happy to hear you will both be attending.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you always, reward you for your labours and enable you to win great victories in the service of His faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

29 November 1952 [Fiji]

Mrs Zainab S. Khan

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of November 12th has been received, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He would be very happy indeed if you and your dear husband could be present at the New Delhi Conference; and he will pray that the way may open for you to attend it.

The friends have every right to appeal to the Australian National Assembly and express their views that Else Norden be allowed to teach people of all races as she has been doing; but in the meantime she should comply with the wishes of the National Assembly, because all Bahá’ís must learn to live according to the administrative principles of our Faith.  If they don’t, they only undermine the very institutions they are trying to create, and which we know, carry the solution to the world’s problems.  It is often difficult to follow this course, but it is the one ‘Abdu’l-Bahá always asked the friends to follow; and obedience, even when we believe the instruction is not wise, brings in itself blessings from on high.

Your devoted services to the Faith, and those of your dear husband, are greatly appreciated, you may be sure; and he will remember you both in his prayers in the Holy Shrines.

With warm Bahá’í love,

Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

11 December 1952 [James Maxwell]

Mr J. Y. C. Maxwell, Secretary, St. Peters Bahá’í Group

Dear Bahá’í brother,

Your letter of November 25th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to acknowledge it on his behalf.

Your contribution enclosed, from the St. Peters Group, toward the Shrine of the Báb, is greatly appreciated.  Receipt is enclosed herewith.

The construction work on the drum of the Shrine is going forward quite rapidly.  The tall columns between the windows are rapidly nearing completion, adding to the beauty of this glorious structure.  The Guardian is hopeful that this work can continue until the building is completely finished.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

Leroy Ioas, Assistant Secretary

P.S.  The Guardian urges the members of your group to very actively engage in the teaching work, and hopes that you will be able to develop into Assembly status during the current year.

1 January 1953 [New Zealand Summer School]

TOUCHED MESSAGE ASSURE ATTENDANTS FERVENT PRAYERS

15 January 1953 [Kitty Carpenter]

APPROVE

18 January 1953 [Collis Featherstone]

ADVISE AFTER DELHI CONFERENCE

29 January 1953 [Collis Featherstone]

APPROVE

29 January 1953 [Ethel Dawe]

POSTPONE PILGRIMAGE

6 February 1953 [Alvin and Gertrude Blums]

LOVING PRAYERS SURROUNDING YOU

23 March 1953 [Marie Dunning]

POSTPONE PILGRIMAGE

30 March 1953

St. Peters Bahá’í Group Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian has received your loving letter of January 29th, enclosing contribution for the construction of the Shrine of the Báb.  He has asked me to acknowledge it on his behalf.  Your contribution is deeply appreciated by him.  Receipt is enclosed herewith.

You will be interested to know that the work on the Dome of the Shrine goes forward very satisfactorily.  The Brim of the Dome has been finished, and the first row of stones of the rounded portion of the Dome have been put in place.  The Shrine takes on added stateliness as each new height is reached.  As it nestles in the heart of the Mountain of God, it daily becomes more impressive, as it beacons salvation to the multitudes.

The Guardian will pray for the success of the teaching work of the St. Peters Bahá’ís, so their group may become a strong Assembly, and have a thriving Community.

Teaching is the head cornerstone of the Faith of God, and the source of Divine Confirmations.  May you ever be blessed with the gifts of The Holy Spirit.  This is dependent on your devotion, consecration and service in the teaching field.

With warm Bahá’í Greetings, I am,

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas, Assistant Secretary

6 April 1953

Mr Stanley Bolton, Sr.

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of January 29th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.  He has been very busy, indeed, which is the reason he has not had the time to reply sooner to your letter.

The Guardian would be very happy to welcome you and your dear wife here beginning the first of October, on your way to the New Delhi Conference.

He feels sure your trip will do a great deal of good to the Cause wherever you are able to visit the friends, and wishes you every success.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  Your son, the Guardian feels, will have to wait until a future date to make the pilgrimage as the number of people coming before and after the Delhi Conference precludes adding anyone else.

May the Beloved bless your efforts, and aid you to promote, at all times, the best interests of His Faith, your true brother,

Shoghi

11 April 1953 [Collis Featherstone]

APPROVE TAKING COLOUR FILM HOLY PLACES

23 April 1953 [National Convention]

OCCASION ANNUAL CONVENTION FOLLOWERS BAHAULLAH ANTIPODES EXTEND ASSEMBLED DELEGATES LOVING GREETINGS HEARTFELT CONGRATULATIONS HISTORIC VICTORY CONSUMMATION PLAN.  HOUR STRUCK OPENING NEW CHAPTER UNFOLDMENT CAUSE AUSTRALASIA.  TEN YEAR PLAN DESIGNED EXTEND RANGE CONSOLIDATE ACTIVITIES SPLENDIDLY INITIATED AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND TASMANIA CARRY LIGHT FAITH NEIGHBOURING ISLANDS INVOLVES FIRST ESTABLISHMENT INCORPORATION NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY NEW ZEALAND SECOND OPENING FOLLOWING VIRGIN TERRITORIES ADMIRALTY ISLANDS COCOS ISLAND LOYALTY ISLANDS MENTAWAI ISLANDS NEW HEBRIDES ISLANDS PORTUGUESE TIMOR SOCIETY ISLANDS THIRD CONSOLIDATION FAITH NEW ZEALAND TASMANIA BISMARK ARCHIPELAGO FIJI ISLANDS NEW CALEDONIA AUSTRALIAN NEW GUINEA FOURTH PURCHASE LAND SYDNEY ANTICIPATION FIRST MASHRIQULADHKAR AUSTRALASIA.  FIFTH ESTABLISHMENT NATIONAL HAZIRATULQUDS AUCKLAND.  SIXTH DOUBLING NUMBER LOCAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES LOCALITIES AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND TASMANIA SEVENTH INCORPORATION 19 LOCAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES AUSTRALIA NEW ZEALAND TASMANIA EIGHTH TRANSLATION BAHAI LITERATURE 40 LANGUAGES COLLABORATION NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY INDIA PAKISTAN BURMA NINTH ESTABLISHMENT NATIONAL ENDOWMENTS NEW ZEALAND TENTH FORMATION ISRAEL BRANCH NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY AUSTRALIA ELEVENTH FORMATION ASIAN TEACHING COMMITTEE EMPOWERED ASSIST PROSECUTION TEACHING PHASE PLAN.  MAY ALMIGHTY ENABLE VALIANT PARTICIPATORS WORLD CRUSADE FULFIL SACRED OBLIGATIONS WORTHILY DISCHARGE RESPONSIBILITIES COURSE COMING DECADE CULMINATING CENTENARY CELEBRATIONS COMMEMORATING BAHAULLAHS DECLARATION GARDEN RIDVAN

26 April 1953 [Alvin and Gertrude Blum]

APPROVE TEACHING INDIA

1 May 1953 [National Convention]

DEEPLY APPRECIATE NOBLE SENTIMENTS SUPPLICATING BEHALF AUSTRALASIAN COMMUNITY BOUNTIFUL BLESSINGS SIGNAL VICTORIES LOVING REMEMBRANCE SHRINES SHOGHI

31 May 1953

Mrs Clara Dunn.

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of May 16th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The Guardian feels, in view of what you have written in your letter, that this is a matter for the National Assembly of Australia and New Zealand to decide upon in the highest interests of the Faith.  He feels sure they will know the best step to take.  It would be very wonderful if you could be there, in view of your years of service to our beloved Faith in Australia; but the Guardian feels the National Spiritual Assembly knows better their own situation, and knows you will feel quite happy with their decision, whatever it may be.

The Guardian is deeply appreciative of your services and the many sacrifices you have made for the Faith.  The friends always remember Father Dunn with such love.

Shoghi Effendi assures you of his loving prayers on your behalf.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your welfare, for the success of your valiant efforts, and the realization of your heart’s desire, in the service of our beloved Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

11 June 1953 [Lilian Wyss]

DELIGHTED ANY VIRGIN TERRITORY LOVING PRAYERS

2 July 1953 [Clara Dunn]

APPROVE ATTENDANCE

8 July 1953 [Anne Richardson]

POSTPONE PILGRIMAGE

13 July 1953 [Marie Dunning]

POSTPONE PILGRIMAGE

19 July 1953

Miss Lilian Wyss.

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian, dated June 21, has been received, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

Inspite of your activities there in the teaching and administrative fields, he considers pioneer work far more urgent at present.  No matter how much the friends wish to go out as pioneers it is not possible for more than a few of them to actually do so, and those who are willing to should arise with no loss of time and go forth—and be inscribed on the roll of honour.  He therefore urges you to make your plans to proceed to a virgin post, preferably in the Pacific Islands, as soon as possible.

He will pray that you may be richly blessed in this glorious undertaking.

As regards the questions you asked:  All these are within the competence of the National Assembly to answer.  Indeed, he is encouraging the NSAs to attend to such secondary questions themselves.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved enable you to promote, at all times and under all circumstances, the vital interests of His Faith, and of its nascent institutions,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

19 July 1953 [Mariana Islands]

Mr Robert B. Powers Jr.

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of May 26 was received, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He realises how disappointed you were not to be able to attend the historic Conference in Chicago.  Unfortunately, your service leaves you no choice at such moments.  However, perhaps in that far off region you will be able to render our beloved Faith some service of a higher kind.

He urges you to get in touch with the Australian NSA (address 2 Lang Road Centennial Park, Sydney, NSW) and ask for the addresses of pioneers who may be in Islands in the Pacific and with whom you can correspond.  This will both encourage you and them and may lead to contacts who will prove interested in the Cause.

If there is any possibility of your being transferred to a service in one of the Goals for the South Pacific he urges you to follow it up.

You may be sure he will pray that you may find receptive souls to teach.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless your efforts, guide your steps, and enable you to win great victories in the service of His glorious Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

23 July 1953 [Alvin and Gertrude Blum, New Zealand]

ADVISE ANY VIRGIN ISLAND PACIFIC LOVE SHOGHI

8 August 1953 [Marie Dunning]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Your loving letter of July 16th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has asked me to acknowledge it on his behalf.

The contribution which you have made to the Shrine of the Báb fund is greatly appreciated.  Receipt is enclosed herewith.

The work on the Shrine is moving forward very rapidly at the present time.  We are bending every effort to complete the structure during the Holy Year, as the Guardian has requested.

The building is becoming more exquisite from day to day; and its stateliness and majesty have become a Glorious Crown for the Sepulchre of the Báb who suffered martyrdom.  Certainly the seeds of His suffering are now bearing fruit in the Global Crusade, which will carry the light of divine guidance over the entire globe.

The Guardian is delighted with the initial response of the believers throughout the world to the opening of the Ten Year Crusade.  He knows this adds great responsibility to each and every believer.  He likewise is sure that everyone will seize their opportunity to achieve immortal honor in spreading the Faith rapidly wherever they may be.

The Guardian greatly values your devoted services to the Faith.  He will pray that every obstacle may be removed from your path of service.

With warm Bahá’í love,

Leroy Ioas, Assistant secretary.

11 August 1953 [Ethel Dawe]

ADVISE FIFTH

14 August 1953 [India]

Miss Ruhengiz Yaganegi

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of June 28th, and has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The Guardian very greatly appreciates your kind offer to serve him here.  At the present time, however, he feels there are a sufficient number of helpers in Haifa.

However, there is probably a great need for your services as a youth, in India and in adjoining virgin territories.  During this great World Crusade recently launched, it will be the task of the National Spiritual Assembly of India, Pakistan and Burma to open up to the Faith many virgin territories in widely-scattered areas of the globe.  The plans for the accomplishment of this heavy task will be laid at the Intercontinental Teaching Conference, to be held in New Delhi in October.  Therefore, the Guardian would urge you to attend that Conference, as there you will probably get some idea of what part you wish to play in this Ten-Year Crusade.

If you wish to know what would most please the heart of the Guardian, it is that these virgin territories be settled by at least one Bahá’í, quickly.  This is the most important of all the goals for any Bahá’í Community, for the opening phase of the Crusade, and the more rapidly it can be accomplished, the better it will be.

He will pray that all your efforts to serve the Faith may be blessed.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my prayers for your success in the service of our beloved Faith and of its institutions,

Shoghi

27 September 1953 [Panama]

Mr Roy Fernie

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of August 14th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The Guardian has already replied to your letter by cable.  However, he wishes me to say that he favours your pioneering.  However, if you consider that your going to one of the Pacific Islands as a pioneer, will destroy your relationship

with your father, then he would suggest that perhaps your wife could go now, and then you can see how things work out for your joining her later.

Shoghi Effendi feels this is a matter on which you two must consult, and concerning which you must reach as decision for yourselves.

The Guardian deeply appreciates the devotion to the Faith of your dear wife and yourself, and sends you his loving greetings.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

10 October 1953 [Marie Dunning]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

I am writing on behalf of our beloved Guardian to tell you that you will be most welcome to visit Haifa and Acca, in order to make the pilgrimage for which you asked his permission some time ago, during the first week in May 1954.

If, for any reason, it is not possible for you to come at that time, will you please notify us, so we can make other arrangements for other pilgrims intending to come, or, if you have another date that would be more suitable to you, perhaps you will let us know what it will be.

I send you my warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  I think however I should make it quite clear that any change of date might involve postponing your pilgrimage for some time, as our accommodations are limited, and the Guardian has carefully planned a schedule of visitors for months ahead.

12 October 1953 [Jean Sevin, France]

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of September 29th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The Guardian considers the opening of Tuamotu to be of far more importance than any service you could render at the present time in France.  Therefore, he urges you to make every effort to establish yourself in this virgin area as soon as you can arrange to do so.

The Guardian is ardently praying that you may be guided and assisted in accomplishing this meritorious task, and he assures you his love will encircle you as you go forth on your historic mission.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty guide, bless and sustain you, and enable you to achieve your heart’s desire,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

13 October 1953 [Panama]

Mr and Mrs Roy Fernie

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian has had in mind your request to visit the Holy Land as pilgrims.  However, in view of your imminent departure for a pioneer post, he does not feel it is the time for you to make the pilgrimage now.

After you have gotten settled in your new post, and are again living a normal life there, if you then feel you can come to Haifa, please again ask the Guardian for permission at that time; he will notify you when you may come.

The Guardian very deeply appreciates your pioneering services, and all of your wonderful labours for the Faith.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

27 October 1953 [Stanley W. Bolton]

PERMITTED SHOGHI

6 November 1953 [Elena Fernie, Panama]

Dear Elena:

After consulting our beloved Guardian I decided to write instead of cabling you as it is too complicated to put in a cable.

He advises you to be quite sure that this project you and your husband have of buying a ship and going out to the islands is feasible and will pay when you get there; otherwise you will find yourselves in a very distressing position.  He does not say give it up, he only wants you to be well advised by those in a position to know what they are talking about.  He agrees with you it is better by all means to have some way of earning a living before you go out.

Owing to the plans he has made he cannot receive you here as pilgrims this coming spring and feels the best thing is for you to make every effort to get off

to your pioneer post and leave your pilgrimage for a future date when it can be made after you are well established.

You may be sure he will pray for the removal of the obstacles in your path and he wishes you great success.

So do I, and all the friends here, affectionately,

Rúḥíyyih

17 December 1953

Miss Leila V. Clark, Secretary, Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Payneham

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of November 30th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was most happy to hear of the visit made to the Groups of St. Peters and Stirling and to your own Community by the honoured Hand of the Cause of God, Dr Furutan, and Mr Faizi.  These believers have rendered a great service to the Faith in visiting the various Centers in that land.  The Guardian feels assured that your meeting with them has been the cause of great inspiration to all the friends, and is confident that they will arise and assist in accomplishing all the tasks set before them for the period of this historic Ten-Year Crusade, both in their own homeland, and beyond its confines.

He assures you all of his loving prayers.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to promote, at all times, the best interests of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

30 December 1953 [New Zealand Summer School]

LOVING APPRECIATION ASSURANCE FERVENT PRAYERS

1 January 1954 [Stanley Bolton]

DEEPEST LOVING APPRECIATION

3 January 1954 [Stanley Bolton]

LOVING APPRECIATION SUPPLICATING ATTENDANTS SCHOOL ABUNDANT BLESSINGS GREAT VICTORIES

24 January 1954 [Yerrinbool Bahá’í School Committee]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of January 3rd has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very happy that the honoured Hand of the Cause, Mr Furutan, and Mr Faizi, could be with you at this session of your Summer School, and he is sure they were the cause of great happiness and deep enkindlement of the friends present.

The Guardian has high hopes for the dear Australian and New Zealand believers, and he urges you, one and all, to persist in your labours, no matter at what cost, until all the goals set before you for the Ten Year Crusade, have been attained.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless you and your dear co-workers in your highly meritorious endeavours, and enable you to win great victories in the service of His glorious Faith.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

26 January 1954 [Stanley Bolton, Tonga]

ASSURE YOU DEEPEST APPRECIATION LOVING PRAYERS

14 March 1954

c/o Mrs Greta Lake, Secretary,

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Caringbah.

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of February 14th, with enclosure, has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The Guardian was very happy to learn of the opening of your new Center.  He hopes this will prove to be a magnet to attract those who are ready for the Faith to your midst; so that your Community may grow in strength and in numbers; so that the Faith may have a solid foundation in Caringbah; and that, from that point, the friends may find ways of finding souls of capacity in nearby localities.

He assures you of his loving prayers in your behalf.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

23 March 1954 [Cynthia and Edgar Olson, United States of America]

… If the Bahá’ís arise with the same spirit of dedication and consecration as those who have gone to foreign fields, victories will be won.  Those living in large cities should move to the goal cities of the American continent, and all should teach with enthusiasm.

The conditions of the world have prepared numerous souls for the light of divine guidance, and it now remains for the Bahá’ís, through their strenuous efforts, to lead these seeking souls to the bourn of immortality.

… The beloved Guardian sincerely hopes that you and your husband will be able to devote yourselves to the interests of the Ten Year Crusade.  He feels that the most important service anyone can render is to pioneer in one of the virgin areas of the Crusade. …  If the National Assembly feels that you can accomplish more for the home-front Crusade by moving to the Wilmette area and assisting in the publicity work on a national scale … the Guardian feels that it will be satisfactory.

[…]

24 March 1954 [Marie Dunning]

Dear Bahá’í sister,

Your letter of March 7th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The Guardian has just cabled you to postpone your pilgrimage, and I am sending this word of explanation at his instruction.

He feels that you are quite right in desiring to put the interests of the Faith there before the personal experience of a pilgrimage at this time.

He heartily approves of your plan for the house and a room where the Bahá’ís may meet; and feels sure that, at a future date, when circumstances permit, you will be able to make the pilgrimage so dear to your heart.

At this critical juncture, no sacrifice can be too great to carry on the work of Bahá’u’lláh, and your spirit greatly touches and pleases him.  He assures you of his loving prayers.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

25 March 1954

National Youth Committee of Australia

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian has received your loving Naw-Rúz greeting, and has asked me to acknowledge it on his behalf, and to express his appreciation to you.

The Guardian hopes that the Youth of Australia will arise during this year with yet greater resolve to lend their assistance toward the attainment of the important goals which he has set before the believers in your land during the Ten-Year Crusade.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless your meritorious endeavours, guide your steps, and enable you to win great victories in the service of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

6 April 1954

To the Hand of the Cause Mrs Clara Dunn

To all the Hands of the Cause and all National Assemblies of the Bahá’í world.  The following telegram sent by the beloved Guardian from Haifa, Israel, on April 5th, 1954 reached me this morning, and as instructed in the telegram itself I am sending you a copy.

With Bahá’í Greetings,

Ugo Giachery

HAIL EMERGENCE UNFOLDMENT OPENING YEARS SECOND EPOCH FORMATIVE AGE BAHAI DISPENSATION AUGUST INSTITUTION FORESHADOWED FOUNDER FAITH FORMALLY ESTABLISHED TESTAMENT CENTRE HIS COVENANT CLOSELY ASSOCIATED PROVISIONS SAME WILL INSTITUTION GUARDIANSHIP DESTINED ASSUME FULLNESS TIME UNDER AEGIS GUARDIAN DUAL SACRED RESPONSIBILITY PROTECTION PROPAGATION CAUSE BAHA’U’LLAH.  DESIRE PAY WARM TRIBUTE SERVICES RENDERED SEVERALLY COLLECTIVELY APPOINTED HANDS WORLD CENTRE FAITH TERRITORIES BEYOND ITS CONFINES.  GREATLY VALUE SUPPORT ERECTION BABS SEPULCHRE CARMEL REINFORCING TIES NEWLY EMERGED STATE ISRAEL EXTENSION INTERNATIONAL ENDOWMENTS HOLY LAND INITIATION PRELIMINARY MEASURES ESTABLISHMENT BAHAI WORLD ADMINISTRATIVE CENTRE AS WELL AS PARTICIPATION FOUR SUCCESSIVE INTERCONTINENTAL TEACHING CONFERENCES EXTENSIVE TRAVELS AFRICAN TERRITORIES NORTH CENTRAL SOUTH AMERICA EUROPEAN ASIATIC AUSTRALIAN

CONTINENTS.  NEWLY CONSTITUTED BODY EMBARKED ITS MISSION SUCH AUSPICIOUS CIRCUMSTANCES NOW ENTERING SECOND PHASE ITS EVOLUTION SIGNALIZED FORGING TIES NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES BAHAI WORLD PURPOSE LENDING THEM ASSISTANCE ATTAINING OBJECTIVES TEN YEAR PLAN.  HOUR RIPE FIFTEEN HANDS RESIDING OUTSIDE HOLY LAND PROCEED DURING RIDVAN APPOINTMENT EACH CONTINENT SEPARATELY FROM AMONG RESIDENT BAHAIS THAT CONTINENT AUXILIARY BOARDS WHOSE MEMBERS ACTING DEPUTIES ASSISTANTS ADVISERS HANDS MUST INCREASINGLY LEND ASSISTANCE PROMOTION INTERESTS TEN YEAR CRUSADE.  ADVISE HANDS ASIATIC AMERICAN EUROPEAN CONTINENTS CONVENE TEHERAN WILMETTE FRANKFURT RESPECTIVELY PURPOSES CONSULTATION NOMINATION.  HANDS CAUSE AFRICAN AUSTRALIAN CONTINENTS MUST EXERCISE FUNCTIONS KAMPALA SYDNEY RESPECTIVELY.  AUXILIARY BOARDS AMERICAN EUROPEAN AFRICAN CONTINENTS MUST CONSIST NINE MEMBERS EACH ASIATIC AND AUSTRALIAN CONTINENTS SEVEN TWO RESPECTIVELY.  ALLOCATION OF AREAS EACH CONTINENT TO MEMBERS AUXILIARY BOARDS AS WELL AS SUBSIDIARY MATTERS REGARDING DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES NEWLY APPOINTED BODIES MANNER COLLABORATION NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES RESPECTIVE CONTINENTS LEFT DISCRETION HANDS.  ALL BOARDS MUST REPORT BE RESPONSIBLE HANDS CHARGED THEIR APPOINTMENT.  HANDS EACH CONTINENT THEIR TURN MUST KEEP CLOSE TOUCH AND REPORT RESULT OF THE NOMINATIONS PROGRESS ACTIVITIES BOARDS NATIONAL ASSEMBLIES RESPECTIVE CONTINENTS AS WELL AS FOUR HANDS RESIDING THE HOLY LAND DESTINED ACT LIAISON BETWEEN THEMSELVES GUARDIAN FAITH.  URGE INITIATION FIVE CONTINENTAL BAHAI FUNDS WHICH AS THEY DEVELOP WILL INCREASINGLY FACILITATE DISCHARGE FUNCTIONS ASSIGNED BOARDS.  TRANSMITTING FIVE THOUSAND POUNDS MY INITIAL CONTRIBUTION BE EQUALLY DIVIDED FIVE CONTINENTS.  APPEAL TWELVE NATIONAL ASSEMBLIES INDIVIDUALS INSURE STEADY AUGMENTATION FUNDS THROUGH ANNUAL ASSIGNMENT NATIONAL BUDGETS INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTIONS.  ADVISE TRANSMIT CONTRIBUTIONS VARQA HOLLEY GIACHARY BANANI DUNN ACTING TRUSTEES ASIATIC AMERICAN EUROPEAN AFRICAN AUSTRALIAN FUNDS RESPECTIVELY.  FERVENTLY SUPPLICATING HOLY THRESHOLD UNPRECEDENTED MEASURE BLESSINGS VITAL INDISPENSABLE ORGAN EMBRYONIC STEADILY UNFOLDING BAHAI ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER PRESAGING EMERGENCE WORLD ORDER BAHA’U’LLAH WHICH MUST PAVE WAY ESTABLISHMENT WORLD CIVILISATION DESTINED ATTAIN MATURITY COURSE SUCCESSIVE DISPENSATIONS FIVE THOUSAND CENTURY BAHAI CYCLE.  AIRMAIL COPIES ALL HANDS AND NATIONAL ASSEMBLIES SHOGHI

17 April 1954 [Harold and Florence Fitzner]

ADVISE CHAGOS COCOS LOYALTY MARSHALLS MARIANAS ADMIRALTY LOVE

24 April 1954 [Mariana Islands]

Mr Robert Powers, Jr.

Dear Bahá’í brother:

The beloved Guardian is happy to learn that you are stationed in Guam, in the Mariana group of Islands.  These are among the goals of the Ten Year Crusade, and it has been impossible up to the present time to establish a pioneer there.

A great opportunity comes to you, to teach the Faith, and establish an outpost in this important area.  The Guardian suggests you concentrate your work of teaching, on people who live permanently in Guam, and any natives who may reside there.  Thus, should you be transferred to another area, you will leave a definite outpost behind, and the persons permanently residing there, and the natives, can carry on the development and expansion of the Faith after you leave.

The Guardian hopes you will be able to continue your assignment in Guam, until you have been able to confirm some souls in the Divine Faith.

The Guardian assures you of his prayers in your behalf in this noble task.

He sends you his loving greetings.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas, Assistant Secretary

3 May 1954

Mr and Mrs Stanley Bolton Sr., 40 Clinton Street, Orange, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letters of October 5th and 18th, 1953 have been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He has been made very happy by the pioneering of your dear son, and the fact that he succeeded in getting into Tonga, which looked as though it were a very difficult spot for which to obtain an entry visa.

The Guardian was also delighted to hear that dear Mrs Bolton is going to strengthen the Faith in one of the weak areas of Australia.

The services of your consecrated and devoted family are very deeply appreciated, and he assures you all that you are most lovingly remembered in his prayers in the Holy Shrine.

With warmest Bahá’í greetings and love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless your high endeavours, guide and sustain you always, and enable you to enrich the record of your splendid and meritorious accomplishments,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

3 May 1954 [Solomon Islands]

Mr Alvin J. Blum

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of December 7th has been received, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.  Of course in the meantime you have made your long return journey from Haifa with your dear wife and gone way out to the Solomons; so this is not strictly speaking a reply solely to such an old letter.

The Guardian is delighted that you have been able to proceed to the Solomon Islands, and trusts that your life there will be comfortable and that business opportunities will open up for you.

He feels that this is a wonderful step that you have taken, and you may be sure he is proud of you both, and that his loving prayers are offered for your success in the Holy Shrine.

He urges you to use tact and discretion in your teaching work, so as not to alienate the officials or the missionaries, but to seek out and find those souls who are receptive to the Message, rather than giving any publicity in the beginning, to your activities.

The most important thing for the pioneers to do is to consolidate their position, and arrange if possible to remain permanently in these goal territories.  Gradually they can find ways and means of spreading the Message, and building Spiritual Assemblies and Groups.

You are remembered with a great deal of affection, and your services are very highly valued, you may be sure.

With warmest Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless your highly meritorious endeavours, guide and sustain you always, and enable you to win great victories in the service of His Faith.

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

5 May 1954

Miss Ethel Dawe

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your four letters dated November 14, and December 18 (2), 1953, and February 25, 1954, have been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very glad to read the reports of your interviews in Tel-Aviv and Jerusalem, which were illuminating, and which he hopes will be yet another link between us and people of importance in this country.

It will make you happy to know that the President of Israel with his wife called on the Guardian a few days ago, and visited with him both Shrines on Mount Carmel; so it seems as if our relations with the State were not only going very smoothly, but had reached an all-time high peak.  This will no doubt be a great blessing to the people of Israel, and also a source of satisfaction to the Bahá’ís.

The Guardian was very sorry indeed to learn of your serious illness.  He hopes however that, as often happens, the gloomy prognostications of the doctors have been over-exaggerated, and they will soon find a way of getting you on your feet again.  The power and mercy of Bahá’u’lláh we know are infinitely great; and, had we not the hope of His assistance, many times in our lives we would cease to make any effort at all.

You may be sure that, in his visits to the holy Shrines, the Guardian prays for your healing, for your happiness and for your services,

With warmest Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  We will see what can be done here about getting an import license for the bougainvillea plant.  It seems a pity that you should have to go to all of this trouble, but no doubt this lovely flowering vine would add greatly to the beauty of the Gardens here.  If Mr Ioas can arrange it, you will hear from him.  With loving greetings from me, personally.

May the Almighty bless and sustain and protect you, cheer your heart, heal and strengthen you, and enable you to enrich the record of your splendid services to His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

7 May 1954 [Marie Dunning]

Dear Bahá’í sister:

This is just a short letter to acknowledge yours postmarked November 25, 1953, and addressed to the beloved Guardian, and to assure you that it was received safely.

He is very sorry that it has not been possible for you to make the pilgrimage this time; but no doubt a future opportunity will present itself, and you will let him know when it might be possible for you to come, and he will inform you whether that suits the plans here, and is feasible at the time you suggest.

Your services are deeply appreciated, and he will remember you in his prayers.

With Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

14 May 1954 [Solomon Islands]

Mr Alvin J. Blum

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Through an oversight, your letter of March 6th I don’t think was acknowledged in the recent letter I sent you on behalf of the beloved Guardian.  Please excuse.

All the news you conveyed to him in that letter was most welcome, and he is praying that you may get firmly established there in business.  He feels sure that Bahá’u’lláh will protect and assist you.

With loving greetings to you and your dear wife from the Guardian,

Yours in His service,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty reward you abundantly for your splendid labours, remove every obstacle from your path, cheer your heart, guide every step you take, and enable you to win great victories in the service of His Faith,

Your true and grateful brother,

Shoghi

25 May 1954 [Harold and Florence Fitzner]

ASSURE LOVING PRAYERS

6 June 1954 [Harold and Florence Fitzner]

Mr and Mrs Harold Fitzner

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of May 25th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is deeply moved by the spirit of devotion which animates you both in your longing to arise and serve at this time.

We know that the state of the heart of the believer attracts the divine outpourings; and the granting of the visa to Mr Fitzner to enter Portuguese Timor, after so much effort, is clearly an evidence of the working of this great spiritual law.  He hopes that soon Mr Fitzner will be able to get firmly established in Timor, and that Mrs Fitzner will be able to go out and join him there.

The most important thing, next to the pioneers going to their posts, is for them to remain on the spot.  The difficulties of obtaining visas, transportation, housing and employment are so great, that the friends who have succeeded in reaching these destined goals, should do everything in their power to remain; and, if they cannot get employment, the National Fund should help them, so that the painstaking process will not have to be repeated, and perhaps the second time not meet with as much success as the first.

He will ardently pray for your services to be blessed, and for your speedy reunion.

With warmest Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless your high endeavours, guide and sustain you always, reward you for your constant and meritorious activities, and enable you to extend the range of your accomplishments,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

7 July 1954 [Mariana Islands]

Mrs Cynthia Olson

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of May 29th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was most happy to hear of your arrival at Guam, and to know that now there are two devoted believers in the Mariana Islands.

He was delighted to learn that you have been successful in finding a house, and also that you have secured employment, and are becoming established there.  He too hopes that soon it will be possible for your dear husband to join you.

The news that you had, on more than one occasion, met with Robert Powers Jr. was also good, as in this way you can reinforce the efforts of each other.

The Guardian urges you, now that you have received this bounty of becoming a pioneer in a foreign land, to, under all circumstances, remain at your post, and never to become discouraged, but to rely on the power of Bahá’u’lláh, which is ready to guide and sustain you constantly in your service to His Faith.

As you know, we have been promised in the Teachings that, if we arise in a befitting manner to teach the Cause of God, we will be assisted by the hosts of the Supreme Concourse.  The Guardian will pray that you may be given the necessary strength to carry forward your noble undertaking.  His prayers are constantly surrounding the precious pioneers who have left their homes and gone forth with such love, such longing and sacrifice, to raise the banner of the Faith in distant lands.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless your noble endeavours, guide and sustain you always, and enable you to enrich the record of your splendid services to His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

29 July 1954

Mr Joseph J. Dobbins

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of June 6th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

From the facts which you have submitted to him in your letter, it does not appear to the Guardian to be either feasible or wise, or fair to your children, for you to leave your home and join Mrs Dobbins in the New Hebrides.

He would therefore advise you that you remain in Joslin, and that your dear wife continue her pioneering services alone, until she succeeds in getting the Faith well established in that virgin area.

He will pray for your son and daughter, as well as yourself, that you may be assisted in your teaching efforts.

The Guardian was very happy to learn that, although at first many difficulties were experienced by Mrs Dobbins in the New Hebrides, yet now there are many who are interested in the Faith.  He was particularly rejoiced to

know that many among the natives are attracted, as you know it is the native people of each virgin land who must be reached with the Message.  Please assure her his loving prayers constantly surround her in her meritorious task.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, aid you to overcome all obstacles, and win, in the days to come, great victories in the service of His glorious Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

26 September 1954

Miss Leila V. Clark

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of August 31st has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has directed me to acknowledge it on his behalf.

Your contribution to the International Interests of the Faith is deeply appreciated.  Receipt is enclosed herewith.

The Guardian is very hopeful that the friends everywhere will arise with renewed effort in order to spread the Faith far and wide, and particularly to bring the Message to more and more people.

The first year of the Ten-Year Crusade was marked with the glorious victory of 100 new countries being opened to the Faith.

May the second year of the Crusade find itself crowned with the glory of the rapid spread of the Faith in all parts of the world, and the establishment of many new Spiritual Assemblies.  This of course can be accomplished by the friends in the large centers of Bahá’í population dispersing to new areas, and each and every one trebling their teaching efforts.

The power of the Holy Spirit is descending in torrents, and it only remains for the individual Bahá’ís to arise and serve and teach, in order to receive the confirmations from on High.

The Guardian assures you of his prayers in your behalf.  He sends you his loving greetings.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas, Assistant Secretary

22 October 1954 [Tonga]

Mr and Mrs Dudley Blakely, and Mr Stanley P. Bolton

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of September 6th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is happy to know that you have now become established in Tonga, and are engaged in teaching the Faith there.

Regarding contact with the Queen, as the revered Hand of the Cause, Mr Varqa is in poor health, it would not be possible for him to visit the Tonga Islands.  In addition to this, the Guardian believes it is premature at this time to present the Faith to the Queen.  He advises you to be very discreet and very unofficial in your teaching work, otherwise you may find that all the work which has been accomplished in Tonga may be jeopardized.

The Guardian is hopeful that Stanley Bolton will make every effort to return to Tonga, and settle there.

It is much more important to reach the native people of Tonga with the Faith, than it is to teach the Europeans residing there.

Your devoted services are deeply appreciated, and the Guardian assures you of his loving prayers.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless your noble and historic efforts, sustain you always, reward you for your exemplary labours, and aid you to win great and memorable victories,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

25 November 1954 [Ethna Archibald]

PERMITTED PILGRIMAGE FOURTH WEEK JANUARY

4 December 1954 [Solomon Islands]

Mr and Mrs Alvin Blum

Dear Bahá’í friends:

Your welcome letter dated October 2nd has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The news you conveyed rejoiced his heart.  He was particularly happy to see that one of the Island people has become a follower, and has translated a pamphlet into Roviana.  He approves of this being printed as soon as possible; and he would like you to express his deep appreciation to this friend for the spirit in which he has rendered this service at the very outset of his becoming a believer.

From the report of Mrs Mildred Mottahedeh he learned of the many hardships you have both endured.  He feels that the results in the end will be all the greater for your sacrifice; and that the example you have set will sink deep into the hearts of, not only other pioneers, but the local people.

You should by all means progress very cautiously, so as to not to be shoved off the foothold you have gained with such difficulty.

You may be sure that he remembers you both, and those you are attracting, as well as your problems, in his prayers in the Holy Shrines.

He hopes that you are both in good health, and your little daughter too; and assures you that he remembers your visit here with pleasure, and his loving thoughts and prayers surround you always.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty Whose Cause you are serving with exemplary dedication, determination, love and fidelity, reward you a thousandfold for your historic services, remove all obstacles from your path, and aid you to win great and memorable victories in the days to come,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

4 December 1954 [New Hebrides]

Mrs Bertha Dobbins

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of October 6th, with the interesting photograph you enclosed, reached the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The wonderful services you have been rendering in that distant outpost of the Faith have greatly pleased the Guardian; and he was glad to hear that Mr Dobbins was able to join you, that his health is improving, and now his mind is more at rest, and, as you say, he will be able to visualize you in the place where you are pioneering.

The Guardian feels that your attitude is correct, and that you cannot be too careful not to antagonize the authorities in any way.  By example, and teaching where the occasion arises, and where it can give no offence, and through perseverance, you will no doubt be able to achieve your object of introducing the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh into these regions.

He feels that we should not lay stress, to new Bahá’ís, on the necessity of giving up smoking, especially as this is purely optional, and many of the Bahá’ís still do smoke.  There are many things in the Teachings that require a stiff effort on the part of a new believer, and we should not add to the hurdles at the very beginning, so to speak.

He is greatly encouraged over the way the work is going forward in all continents of the globe and the islands throughout the seven seas.  It seems unbelievable that in so short a time, so much should have been achieved; and it shows that the days are rapidly approaching when the Cause will go forward by leaps and bounds, and the masses will become attracted.

You may be sure he remembers you, your dear husband and those whom you are teaching, in his prayers in the Holy Shrines; and he urges you to persevere and be of good cheer.

With warm Bahá’í love, […]

May the Almighty bless your efforts, guide and sustain you, reward you for your labours, and enable you to win great victories in the service of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

7 December 1954 [New Zealand]

Mr Bertram M. Dewing

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of November 22nd has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is happy that your problem regarding your book is becoming adjusted.

Your services in the Faith are deeply appreciated.  With the scattering of the friends to other countries, those who must remain are called upon to shoulder ever-increasing responsibilities, and to teach with increasing vigour, so that other new and strong souls may be found who will enlist their services in the Cause and become its ardent supporters.

In his prayers in the Holy Shrines, he will remember you, and supplicate that all your efforts in the path of God may be richly blessed.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

11 December 1954 [Eric Bowes]

POSTPONE PILGRIMAGE

12 December 1954

Mrs Mariette G. Bolton, 40 Clinton Street, Orange, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of November 22nd has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

As regards the question you asked him about Mother Dunn’s flat, he feels that this really is, as you yourself suggested, a matter which concerns

the National Spiritual Assembly, and should be considered from a business standpoint, rather than a sentimental one.

He was happy to hear that Stanley and his wife are considering returning to Tonga, to which he attaches the greatest importance.

You may be sure that in his visits to the Holy Shrines he will pray for you all, and particularly for your dear husband.  He deeply appreciates the tireless services your entire family render the Faith.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to extend the range of your valued activities, and win great victories in the service of His glorious Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

14 December 1954 [Gilbert and Ellice Islands]

Mr and Mrs Roy Fernie

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of September 26th with enclosure has been received by the beloved Guardian, and I have been instructed to answer you on his behalf.  The Guardian is delighted that you now have a new native believer, who seems to be a man of great spiritual capacity.

The Guardian has written a letter of welcome to Mr Kanare, which he would like you to please deliver to him.

He deeply appreciates your sacrificial services and your devotion, and assures you of his prayers for the abundant success of all your labours in the Faith.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty reward you abundantly for your splendid labours, guide every step you take, and fulfil every desire you cherish, for the promotion of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

14 December 1954 [Gilbert and Ellice Islands]

Mr Peter Kanare

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of September 26th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

It gives him the greatest joy to welcome you as a co-worker into the service of Bahá’u’lláh.  He feels that, as this new World Faith spreads throughout the Islands of the Pacific, it will not only find many worthy souls, receptive and longing to hear of it, but through them it will be carried to the people of the Islands, who have a great tradition behind them, and who will help establish the Order Bahá’u’lláh has created for this Day, bringing their own peculiar abilities and characteristics as a contribution to its service.

He urges you to be very discreet in spreading this Message.  We do not wish to become a source of discord, or arouse opposition, as no doubt Mr and Mrs Fernie have already told you.

You may be sure that the Guardian will pray for you in the Shrines, and he sends you his loving greetings.

Yours in the service of the Faith,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to promote the best interests of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

24 December 1954 [Greta Janko, Society Islands]

APPRECIATE MESSAGE FROM PAPEETE ASSURE LOVING PRAYERS

31 December 1954 [India]

Mr Shapoor Soheili

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your loving letter of December 7th has come to hand, outlining the problems confronting your with regard to your place of pioneering service.

The Guardian feels that you may make your choice as to whether to go to New Caledonia in the hope of entering the Loyalty Islands from there; or go to Ethiopia, in the hope of entering British Somaliland.  Whichever seems most feasible to you will be satisfactory to the Guardian, and approved by him.

He feels sure you will be divinely guided, and that you will be able to win great victories for the Faith.

He assures you of his prayers in your behalf, and sends you his loving greetings.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas, Assistant Secretary

1 January 1955 [New Zealand Summer School]

ASSURE ATTENDANTS FERVENT LOVING PRAYERS ATTAINMENT OF OBJECTIVES SHOGHI

5 January 1955 [Yerrinbool Summer School]

APPRECIATE GREETINGS ASSURE LOVING PRAYERS

6 January 1955

Miss Kitty Carpenter

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of December 21st with enclosure has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is happy to know that the New Zealand Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds is being made attractive for the many activities that will take place in this Center, and he hopes it will become the means of the greatest unity and loving cooperation among the friends.

He assures all the friends in New Zealand of his deep appreciation of their devoted services.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to promote, at all times, the vital interests of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

5 February 1955 [Eric and Marjorie Bowes]

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of January 19th has been received, and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is always sorry to have to postpone the friends coming to Haifa, especially when they come from far!  But, as he takes them in priority of request—and the space, so to speak, is all filled up until well on in next winter—he had to put your family off too.  He hopes a future date will be feasible for you.

As to your plans in Europe:  he feels any teaching and visiting you could do to weak centers and surrounding Island goals in and near Britain would be a welcome asset to the work; you should consult the British NSA and the European Teaching Committee.

He deeply values your family’s devoted labours for the promotion of the Faith, and assures you of his loving prayers.

With Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless your efforts, and guide your steps in the service of our beloved Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

22 February 1955 [Mariana Islands]

Mrs Cynthia Olson

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The beloved Guardian was greatly delighted to receive your letter of January 26th, coming from the Mariana Islands, one of the goal areas of the Ten Year Crusade.

The contribution which you have sent is greatly appreciated.  Receipt is enclosed herewith, made out in the names of your husband and yourself.  The Guardian feels it is of spiritual importance that a contribution has come from that difficult territory, because it links it spiritually with the World Centre of the Faith.

The Guardian wishes to assure you of his prayers in your behalf.  He likewise assures you of his prayers for your dear husband.  He hopes that every problem will be overcome, so that you two may serve together in the Marianas for the development and expansion of the Faith.

The Guardian will likewise pray for Mr Mackey, who he hopes will become an active Bahá’í, and will be able to render outstanding services to the Cause of God.

The Guardian sends you his loving greetings.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas, Assistant Secretary

11 March 1955 [Edith Danielson]

DELIGHTED LOVING PRAYERS

16 March 1955 [Frank Wyss]

POSTPONE PILGRIMAGE

17 March 1955

National Youth Committee of Australia and New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian appreciates your Naw-Rúz Greetings, which he reciprocates, and will pray for your success in the Holy Shrines.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

7 April 1955

Mr H. Collis Featherstone

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your loving letter of March 19th, has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has directed me to acknowledge it on his behalf.  The contribution you have made to the International Fund is greatly appreciated, Receipt is enclosed herewith.

The Guardian greatly values your devoted and sacrificial services to the Cause of God, as well as those of your dear wife.  He will pray for your guidance and confirmation; that every obstacle may be removed from your path, and you be enabled to render distinguished and outstanding service to our beloved Faith.

The Guardian enjoyed reading the copies of the “Koala News” which you attached to your letter.

He attached the utmost importance to the Incorporation of the Local Assemblies, and he hopes you will meet with every success in your presentation to the Parliament in South Australia of a bill which will automatically incorporate the existing five Assemblies in South Australia, as well as other Assemblies as they come in to being.

The Guardian hopes likewise you will be successful in your efforts to have the remaining virgin areas settled.  In this connection, he understands that the Cocos Islands are to become a part of the Australian nation soon, and those living on the Islands will be Australian citizens.  If that is the case, couldn’t some one from Australia pioneer, without difficulty, in the Cocos.  He would welcome this being done, if at all possible.

The Guardian was also happy to learn of the active steps being taken to translate the literature; and welcomes the report that the literature is now being disseminated in Roviana.  In this connection, he asks that you send the Blums, his deep appreciation of their services.  He values them most highly, and prays for their complete success.

The Guardian sends you his loving Greetings.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

9 April 1955

Miss Margaret Forrest

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of March 15th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very happy to hear of your activities in the service of the Faith; and particularly that in Brisbane, the Bahá’ís—a united Group, which attracts the unfailing blessings of God,—are able to work with foreign students.  The teaching of foreign students forms an excellent concomitant to the work in the pioneer field.  Many times people from distant lands are converted abroad, and return to either carry the Message to their own country for the first time, or support the labours of some isolated and patient pioneer.

The Guardian thinks perhaps a different approach to the aborigines might attract them; one of being interested in their lives and their folklore, and of trying to become their friend, rather than trying to change them or improve them.

If you could form a friendship with an aborigine who had more spiritual and mental capacity than the average, you might find out that out of this friendship would spring an interest in the Faith; but no doubt great patience is required to enter into the thought of these people, so different from ourselves in background and training.

He feels you should concentrate on teaching people who will be able to grasp the Faith; and, although work with spastic children is no doubt highly meritorious as a philanthropic activity, in view of the fact that only we Bahá’ís can give the Message to the people in these dark days, he thinks it is a pity for a Bahá’í to waste too much time on that kind of work.  Direct teaching is more important, especially teaching the aborigines.

He will certainly pray for you and your dear mother, that you may be successful in serving the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

28 April 1955 [National Convention]

DEEPEST APPRECIATION MESSAGE CONVENTION FERVENTLY SUPPLICATING UNPRECEDENTED BLESSINGS URGE RENEWED EFFORTS ATTAINMENT GOALS PLAN DEEPEST LOVE SHOGHI

29 April 1955 [National Convention]

DEEPLY APPRECIATE CONVENTION MESSAGE.  APPEAL ASSEMBLED DELEGATES DELIBERATE URGE LOCAL COMMUNITIES ARISE COURSE LAST YEAR SECOND PHASE TEN YEAR PLAN REDOUBLE EFFORTS ATTAINMENT GOALS PARTICULARLY MULTIPLICATION CENTERS ASSEMBLIES EXPEDITE LOCAL INCORPORATION TRANSLATION LITERATURE INTENSIFICATION TEACHING CONSOLIDATION NEWLY OPENED TERRITORIES ESTABLISHMENT NATIONAL ENDOWMENTS.  FERVENTLY SUPPLICATING UNPRECEDENTED BLESSINGS MUCH LOVED GREATLY ADMIRED VALIANT COMMUNITIES ANTIPODES SHOGHI

30 April 1955 [Fiji]

Mr Nur Ali

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of April 19th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The Guardian feels that medicine would offer your son a much wider field of service to the Bahá’í Faith; and that, since you are such a devoted and harmonious family, you should try and give the boy a medical training, if he likes medicine.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  I should like to add that he is very happy indeed over the progress being made in Fiji, the purchase of the Bahá’í Headquarters and the incorporation of the Assembly.  He urges you and all the friends, to persevere in your teaching work and consolidate the foundations already laid in that important outpost of our glorious Faith.

May the Almighty bless your meritorious labours, guide every step you take, remove all obstacles from your path, and enable you to consolidate the splendid work that has been initiated in that far-off and highly important centre,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

4 May 1955

Mrs Maysie Almond,

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your loving letter of April 2nd was received by the beloved Guardian and he has directed me to acknowledge it on his behalf.

Your contribution which you have sent in the nature of your Ḥuquq is greatly appreciated.  The Guardian greatly appreciates your gift and the deep spirit of devotion which is behind it.  Receipt is enclosed herewith.

The beloved Guardian rejoices over the victories being won all over the Bahá’í world.  He is hopeful that the “lagging” on the home fronts, will be overcome by the Bahá’ís generally in renewed teaching efforts.  The goal is more Bahá’ís, more Assemblies!

The Friends should not delay in this “most important of all work”, feeling they have until 1963 to disperse—to teach—to establish new Assemblies.  They should win the goals now.  In foreign fields, new Assemblies are being established daily—why not on the home front?

The Guardian assures you of his prayers in your behalf.  He sends you his loving Greetings.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas, Assistant Secretary

19 June 1955

James Chittleborough

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter to our beloved Guardian dated May 16, has been received, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

By dispersal the Guardian means the friends should get away entirely from the large centers of population and, leaving a nucleus of about 15 Bahá’ís to maintain the Local Assembly, go settle, live and teach in new towns, cities and even villages.  Naturally, it is no service to the Cause to disperse if it breaks up an existing Assembly.  The purpose of dispersal is to create more Assemblies over a wider area.  Until a given Assembly can spare some of its local Community to go out and settle, they should by all means at least do extension teaching.

The status of Adelaide and adjacent Communities is a matter for the NSA to decide.

In the instance you cited about the friend who, with independent means was willing to go out and sell her home and move to a new area, he feels she would have done better to go.  You had more than 9 members in your community; you could have found another place to meet.  This is just the type of pioneering

the Guardian is urging.  Those who can go should go.  Others will arise locally to take their places.

He will pray for the success of your devoted labours to promote the Faith.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

27 June 1955 [New Hebrides]

Mr Peter Kaltoli

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Our beloved Guardian was extremely happy to receive your letter to him dated May 10th.  He welcomes you into the service of our glorious Faith and feels sure you will be able to bring the knowledge of Bahá’u’lláh to many of your fellow countrymen out there.

The first step is to teach the Faith.  As the number of Bahá’ís increases the pattern of a future, a truly spiritual society, will emerge, and as it unfolds will influence ever increasingly the way of life of the masses of the people.  It is like the dawn, gradually becoming lighter until the full light of the day comes.

Please give his loving greetings to dear Mrs Dobbins who has left her home and gone so far to carry to you the Message of Bahá’u’lláh.

The Guardian will pray for your success in every way and for your dear family as well.

With warmest Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless every effort you exert, and fulfil every hope you cherish, for the promotion of our beloved Faith, and aid you to win great victories in its service,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

26 August 1955

Mr James Chittleborough

Dear Bahá’í brother:

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of July 22nd, and has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

In regard to your questions regarding dispersal, the Guardian has laid down the general principle.  Now you should consult the National Spiritual Assembly as to the purely minor questions, such as those raised in your letter.

The important thing is to go forth, and either pioneer in a virgin area, or go to some locality where there is a group established, and help them, by teaching and by your services to the Faith there, to reach Assembly status.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

3 September 1955

Mr Stanley Bolton

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of August 7th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The article you enclosed, written by Stanley Jr. on Tonga, was read with interest.

The Guardian is delighted to learn that Stanley Jr. is planning to return to Tonga.  His labours were meeting with great success there, and the Guardian has always hoped he would return to his pioneering post.

He wishes me to express to you his deep appreciation of the devoted services your entire family are constantly engaged in rendering the Faith so dear to all your hearts.

He remembers you all in this loving prayers.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty, Whose Cause you serve so devotedly and well, reward you for your splendid accomplishments, and enable you to enrich continually the record of your historic services to His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

13 September 1955

Mrs Jean Millway

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of August 20th with enclosure has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He greatly appreciates your contribution given to help the dear persecuted Bahá’ís in Persia.  Receipt is enclosed.

The Guardian feels it is very appropriate that you have made a contribution to the “Save the Persecuted” fund.  The Guardian will see that this money reaches its proper goal in Persia.  The persecutions have been very severe indeed.  However apparently the concerted efforts of the friends all over the world and their prayers, have ameliorated the condition, because there have been no outward manifestations of ill treatment recently.

The Guardian greatly values the services and sacrifices of the friends in Australia and New Zealand.  He feels sure they will reach new heights in their services during the coming year.  The persecutions in Persia have touched the hearts of many, and it should be a good opportunity for the friends to win many converts to the Faith.

He assures you of his prayers in your behalf.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

7 October 1955

Mrs Mariette G. Bolton, 40 Clinton Street, Orange, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of recent date, and has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

You may anoint the friends in New Zealand with the attar of rose which you received from the Guardian when you were in Haifa.

He urges you to impress on the believers in New Zealand the tremendous importance of the teaching work.  They should do their utmost in every possible way to add to the number of localities where believers are found; and then, by their devoted teaching efforts, confirm more souls in these centers, and bend their energies toward the establishment of more Local Assemblies.  In this way they will build a broad and strong foundation for the future National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of New Zealand.

The Guardian is happy to know that you are serving the Faith in Orange; and he hopes you will seize every opportunity to teach, so that before long others may be encouraged to join you and reinforce you in your noble work.

He deeply appreciates your devoted services, and prays that success may attend your efforts.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty abundantly reward you for your unforgettable and exemplary services, guide, sustain and bless you always, and aid you to enrich continually the record of your past accomplishments,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

7 October 1955

Mr James J. Chittleborough

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of September 8th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

It pleased him greatly to learn that you have moved to Naracoorte in order to bring the Faith to this new center.  He considers this a very valuable move; and deeply appreciates your devoted spirit and your determination to see the Cause advance.

The Guardian hopes your affairs may soon become adjusted; so that your dear wife and children may join you.

He assures you of his prayers that your efforts may be richly rewarded; and that in a short time, others will, through you, decide to join the ranks of the followers of Bahá’u’lláh.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to extend the range of your services to His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

9 September 1955

Mrs Gertrude Squelch.

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of August 13th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He will remember your dear husband in his prayers, and hopes that his health may soon improve, so that you can continue together to serve the Faith so dear to you.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving and fervent prayers for your dear husband, and for the success of your efforts for the promotion of our beloved Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

7 October 1955

Mrs Gertrude Squelch.

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of September 9th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was grieved to hear of the passing of your dear husband.  He assures you of his heartfelt sympathy in this physical separation from your loved one; and will pray for his progress and happiness in the spiritual worlds.

He urges you now to assist in the establishment of new centers.  This work is of the utmost importance, and highly meritorious; and will attract to you define blessings and assistance.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving and fervent prayers for the progress of the soul of your departed husband, as well as for your spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

21 October 1955

Miss Margaret Forrest

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of September 21st has been receive by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was most happy to learn that your father has now become a Bahá’í; and extends to him through you a warm welcome into the Faith.  He knows that this rejoices your own heart, and that of your dear mother.  If his illness has been the cause of his determining to take this step, then it has been a great bounty to him.  Please assure him of the Guardian’s prayers for him.

He will also remember you and your mother in his supplications.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

28 October 1955

Miss Kitty B. Carpenter

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of October 4th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

If the condition of the health of your parents is such that your presence is really needed, then you should not leave them.  If, however, there is some other relative who could care for them, then you could help with the work in the South Island, and aid the friends in establishing the Faith on a solid foundation there.

The Guardian was happy to learn that your nephew in the South Island has now become a Bahá’í, as a result of your having spent some time visiting him.  He hopes your nephew will determine, from the very beginning of his Bahá’í life, to teach within the limited sphere of his neighbours and friends in that isolated locality.

Your devotion and service to the Faith are deeply appreciated you may be sure.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved, whose Faith you promote, with such a devotion, zeal and perseverance, bountifully reward you, and aid you to extend continually the scope of your splendid achievements.

Your true brother,

Shoghi

26 November 1955 [Frank Wyss]

WELCOME PILGRIMAGE WITH BILL WASHINGTON SECOND WEEK FEBRUARY

26 November 1955 [Charles Mackay, Mariana Islands]

WELCOME PILGRIMAGE THIRD WEEK FEBRUARY

14 December 1955 [Mariana Islands]

Mr and Mrs Edgar Olson

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of November 30th with enclosure has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

Your contribution to the international interests of the Faith is deeply appreciated.  Receipt is enclosed herewith.

The beloved Guardian was very happy indeed to learn of your activities, and the fact that you are settling in Inarajan.  He is also happy that your affairs are taking a favourable turn, and that you have been successful in business, as well as securing a favourable place to live.  He hopes that all of this may assist you in teaching the Cause and winning many of the people of Guam to the Faith, particularly the natives.

The Guardian will pray for the guidance and confirmation of Mr Quesada, that he may be confirmed in the Faith and become an ardent supporter of its teachings and institutions.

The Guardian greatly values the sacrifices and devotion which animates you in your labours for the Cause of God.  He is sure you will be richly blessed by the beloved Master.  He sends you his loving greetings.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

4 January 1956 [Yerrinbool Summer School]

DEEPLY APPRECIATE MESSAGE LOVING FERVENT PRAYERS SUCCESS DELIBERATIONS ATTAINMENT GOALS SHOGHI

4 January 1956 [New Zealand Summer School]

DEEPEST LOVING APPRECIATION MESSAGE FERVENTLY SUPPLICATING ATTAINMENT GOALS GREAT VICTORIES SHOGHI

24 January 1956 [Bill Washington, New Caledonia]

Mr W. Washington

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter was received by the beloved Guardian and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He considers your decision to not make the pilgrimage at the present time, but remain at your post, was certainly the right one, and be feels sure that at a future date you will be able to come.  If you let him know some months in advance when it would be possible for you to come, he will inform you whether it is possible to make arrangements at this end to receive you at that time.

As you know, he attaches great importance to the Loyalty Islands, and he assures you he will pray that the way may open for you to assist in the establishment of the Faith there, either through settling or interesting a Loyalty Islander.

He is very happy over the pioneer services you are rendering, and wishes you every success.

With warmest Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless your historic efforts, guide and sustain you always, and enable you to render memorable services to His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

2 February 1956 [New Hebrides]

Mrs Bertha Dobbins

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of December 31st, with photos enclosed, has been received and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The wonderful news you conveyed to him of the spread of the Faith to other Islands, the devotion of these new believers, and the work that you are doing to attract more, gave him great joy.  Bahá’u’lláh has indeed blessed your efforts, and the joint sacrifice you and Mr Dobbins have made in order to accomplish this work of the Crusade.

He considers the spread of the Cause to other Islands of great importance, as well as the translation work.

Nothing will so deeply affect the hearts of people who have been hurt and offended by the attitude of white supremacy as to consort with them as full equals—as indeed they are.  He is very glad you are doing this.

He will pray in the Holy Shrines for your success in every way, and please give his love to the believers there and tell them he hopes some day some of them will journey here to meet him, be his pilgrim-guests, and visit the Shrines.

Much love,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved, whose Cause you serve with such constancy, love and devotion, guide and sustain you always, and enable you to win great victories in the days to come,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

16 February 1956 [Hawaii]

Mr Roy Fernie

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of February 7th with photograph enclosed has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

Although he was very happy to hear the news of the number of believers that you and your dear wife have made in the Gilbert and Ellice Islands, he was very sorry to hear of your expulsion.

As he has already informed the British National Assembly, we must do all in our power to stay on good terms with the Authorities, even though they are incited against us by missionaries or other enemies of the Faith, and may treat us with injustice.

He will certainly pray that the way may open for you to return; and, in the meantime, he feels that your wife is doing the right thing by staying at her post, however great the personal sacrifice involved for you both.

Your devoted services have been deeply appreciated by him, and greatly admired by Bahá’ís in other pioneer posts, who have to sow, alas, in less fertile soil!

With warmest Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you, reward you abundantly for your historic and meritorious labours, and enable you to enrich the record of your services in the days to come,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

22 February 1956

Mrs Mariette G. Bolton, 9 Martin Place, Sydney, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of January 26th has been received by the beloved Guardian; and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was very happy to hear of the teaching trips you have been making and will make to New Zealand; and he feels sure that these greatly stimulate and encourage the friends.

He was also happy to hear of the progress of the work in Orange; and that your dear family are well and you now have a grandson.  He assures you he will pray for you all in the Holy Shrines and for the success of your tireless labours.

With warmest Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless, guide and sustain you, and aid you to enrich continually the record of your splendid services,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

15 March 1956

Mr James Chittleborough

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of January 17th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was happy to learn that you and your dear family are now settled in Naracoorte.  He urges you to put forth every effort, so that Bahá’u’lláh may assist you to find and confirm in the Faith a number of prepared souls, and aid you to establish His Cause on a firm foundation in your new environment.

He deeply appreciates your spirit, and assures you of his prayers.

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

21 March 1956 [Rose Hawthorne]

ASSURE FERVENT PRAYERS SHOGHI

8 April 1956 [Guam Assembly, Mariana Islands]

DELIGHTED ASSURE LOVING PRAYERS

April 1956 [National Convention, Australia and New Zealand]

DEEPLY APPRECIATE CONVENTION MESSAGE APPEAL ASSEMBLED DELEGATES DELIBERATE URGE LOCAL COMMUNITIES ARISE COURSE LAST YEAR SECOND PHASE YEAR PLAN TRY DOUBLE EFFORTS ATTAINMENT GOALS PARTICULARLY MULTIPLICATION CENTRES ASSEMBLIES EXPEDITE LOCAL INCORPORATION TRANSLATION LITERATURE INTENSIFICATION TEACHING CONSOLIDATION NEWLY OPENED TERRITORIES ESTABLISHMENT NATIONAL ENDOWMENTS FERVENTLY SUPPLICATING UNPRECEDENTED BLESSINGS MUCH LOVED GREATLY ADMIRED VALIANT COMMUNITIES ANTIPODES SHOGHI

23 April 1956 [Mariana Islands]

The Bahá’ís of Guam

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of April 4th was received, and the beloved Guardian was very touched indeed to see some of the Bahá’í prayers in the language of the Mariana Islands.  This good news reached him at the time of the Riḍván Festival, and made him very happy.

He assures you all of his loving prayers, and urges you to persevere and never lose heart.

With warmest Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and aid you to win great victories in the days to come,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

27 April 1956 [National Convention]

DEEPEST APPRECIATION MESSAGE CONVENTION FERVENTLY SUPPLICATING UNPRECEDENTED BLESSINGS URGE RENEWED EFFORTS ATTAINMENT GOALS PLAN DEEPEST LOVE SHOGHI

27 April 1956

Mr H. Collis Featherstone,

24 Hargrave Street, Semaphore, South Australia

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your loving letter of April 4th was duly received, and its contents presented to the beloved Guardian.

He was greatly delighted to receive the information that you sent with regard to the translations into new languages, and the victories in the teaching field.  The spirit of confirmation seems to be descending over the entire South and South-East Pacific areas, and the victories being won everywhere indicate how badly the divine teachings are needed in those areas.

The beloved Guardian states he does not recognize the purported extract from a Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh concerning Enoch.  He could not therefore rule on its authenticity without seeing the original Tablet.  Even if it should come from a Writing of Bahá’u’lláh, the translation is extremely poor ….

If I might inject a personal thought, it is that I believe this purported extract from a Tablet of Bahá’u’lláh can only refer to the initial paragraph which is quoted and which does read like Bahá’í literature.  However the balance of the document appears to me to be quotations from the “Book of Enoch” or a book covering the teachings of Enoch.  A number of years ago, there was some interest developed concerning manuscripts which were found, which were purported to be writings of an early Prophet who they thought was Enoch.  I had both books referred to, and this reads like it is quoted directly from one of the books.  I recall the interest amongst the Bahá’ís in this matter in the days of my youth, and it was prior to the time of the departure of Father Dunn for Australia and New Zealand.  He no doubt took it with him.

There must be some misunderstanding on the part of Bahá’ís in Burnside with regard to the readings at a Nineteen Day Feast.  The Writings of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh can certainly be read any time at any place; likewise the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá are read freely during the spiritual part of the Feast.  The Guardian has instructed that during the spiritual part of the feast, his own Writings should not be read.  In other words, during the spiritual part of the Feast, readings should be confined to the Writings of the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh and to a lesser extent, of the Master; but during that part of the Feast the Guardian’s Writings should not be read.  During the period of administrative discussion of the Feast, then the Guardian’s Writings may be read.  Of course during the administrative part of the Feast there can be no objection to the reading of the Writings of the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh or ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

I am, faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

27 April 1956

Mr H. Collis Featherstone

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your loving letter of April 13th, has just come to hand, with the very thrilling letter from Mr Hancock, telling of his joyous experiences on the trip from Rabaul to New Ireland.

Knowing the Guardian would be interested in reading Mr Hancock’s letter, I submitted it to him.  He was very happy to learn of the reception of the universal teachings of the Faith in that promising land, and he hopes the Faith will grow in depth in the hearts of the people.  His advice is that rather than spread rapidly, and form new patterns of life too quickly, that the teachers concentrate on a few strong capable souls, and see that they are fully confirmed and deepened in the Faith, before spreading to larger numbers.  Otherwise, when opposition comes, the local people will not be sufficiently deepened in the Faith, to enable them to stand the pressure.

The Guardian assures the Friends, particularly Mr Hancock of his prayers in their behalf; that they may be both guided and confirmed in their work, and many souls become standard bearers of the new Day, in that area.

With loving Bahá’í Greetings,

I am, faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

30 April 1956 [Guam]

Mr Robert B. Powers, Jr.

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of April 9th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The cabled news he received a few days ago that an Assembly had been formed on Guam was a source of great pleasure to him; and he feels proud indeed of the achievement of the Bahá’ís out there, including your dear self.  Just the other day he had occasion to write your father, who is very proud of you and very happy that you have been able to go back as a pioneer to Guam.

The Guardian assures you that he will pray for your success and that of the new Assembly, in the Holy Shrines.

As you know, he attaches great importance to the natives of the country becoming believers; and he hopes that the Message will spread rapidly amongst them.

With warmest Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Beloved bless every effort you exert in the service of His Faith, reward you for your meritorious labours, and enable you to win memorable victories in the days to come,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

1 May 1956 [Tonga]

Mrs Elsa Blakely

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your welcome letter of April 18th was received and brought great joy to the heart of our beloved Guardian.

Please assure the Bahá’ís of Eua that the beautiful gift they are sending him will be placed in the Mansion of Bahá’u’lláh, amongst historical documents and contributions from friends in far parts of the world, as well as some of the sacred relics of Bahá’u’lláh which are on view in this Bahá’í Holy Place.

He was very happy indeed to hear that the Tongan friends are teaching the Cause themselves to their own people, and assisting you and your dear husband in spreading the Message in those islands.  The Polynesians for many centuries, ever since the white man contacted them, have been admired for their fine characteristics and the nobility of their spirit.  It would be a great contribution to the world-wide character of our Faith to have people of this race active in its service and representing what their race has to give, as time goes on, in joint Bahá’í national and international councils.  Your services

there are very deeply appreciated, and the work you are accomplishing, very dear to his heart.  He sends you and your husband his loving greetings, as well as all the friends in those islands; and assures you all of his prayers for your success, in the Holy Shrines.

With warmest Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless continually your highly meritorious efforts, guide every step you take, and fulfil every desire you cherish, for the promotion of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

3 May 1956 [New Caledonia]

Mr W. Washington

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of February 21st has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He hopes that it will be possible for you to make the pilgrimage some time during next winter.

He thinks you did quite right to remain there in preference to coming with Frank Wyss and perhaps jeopardizing your work, to which he attaches the greatest importance.

He hopes that you have been able to get a residence visa, and thinks that your attitude as to how to go about it, is very sound.

You may be sure he will pray for you and Mr and Mrs Soheili, as well as for those you are teaching in those Islands.  He wishes you every success, and urges you to persevere.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

6 May 1956 [Caroline Islands]

Miss Virginia Breaks

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of April 18th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has directed me to acknowledge it on his behalf.  Your contribution to the International Interests of the Faith is deeply appreciated.  Receipt is enclosed herewith.

The beloved Guardian was deeply impressed with your outline of teaching work which you have been able to accomplish during the past two years and the interest which has been developed.

Now that you have become acquainted and well-established and will not have to travel so much, the Guardian sincerely hopes you will be able to devote more time to the teaching of the native people, so that a goodly number may become firm in the Faith.  He feels that this vast territory, which has been spiritually asleep for so long is now awakening, and he hopes through your diligent efforts, many may find the light of Divine Guidance.

The Guardian assures you that he will pray diligently in your behalf for the success of your work and that divine confirmations may be with you at all times.  He sends you his loving greetings.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

9 May 1956 [Papua New Guinea]

Miss Violet Hoehnke

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your welcome letter of April 28th was received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is very happy indeed to see that there is now a Group in Pt.  Moresby; and that the believer whom you were able to confirm in Manus is still there.  Please convey to him the loving greetings of the Guardian, and assure him of his prayers that he may give the Message to many of his people.

He will also pray that your efforts to create a friendly relationship with the Administrator will be successful.  Generally speaking, it is not wise to involve the higher officials too much in our work; but it is good to let them know, when this seems indicated, what we are doing, and create good will on their part.

For the time being, he thinks that, as long as the Government moved you away from Manus, you should not try to get back there, but continue where you are, building up the local work and quietly teaching as many natives as you can.  If we attract the attention of the officials and the missionaries to us too much, we will jeopardize our work in many of these backward places in the world where there is a definite racial problem, either nascent or well-developed.

It would naturally be better if you could get back to one of the places where you would be more in contact with the natives; but under no circumstances should you risk your position or antagonize the Authorities, as you have a much stronger hold on the situation through being their employee.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty shower His blessings on your meritorious and historic work in the service of His Faith, reward you for your labours, and aid you to win great and memorable victories in the days to come,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

29 May 1956 [Rolf Schiller]

POSTPONE PILGRIMAGE

2 July 1956 [Gilbert and Ellice Islands]

Mrs Elena Marsella Fernie

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letters of May 23rd and June 4th have been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He has approved of having another pioneer replace you, but you should remain at your post until the pioneer arrives, and you can safely hand over the work, so important, so historic and so delicate, to your replacement.

He remembers you always in his prayers in the Holy Shrines.  He wishes me to express his great appreciation to you and your dear husband for the wonderful services rendered, and the great sacrifices you have both so lovingly made, and which have resulted in such a rich harvest.

The Guardian would like you to particularly convey his encouragement and admiration to Peter for his fine spirit and devotion.  He also sends his love to all the friends there.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Spirit of Bahá’u’lláh, Whose Cause you serve with such exemplary devotion, abundantly reward you for your unforgettable and truly historic services, and graciously assist you to overcome all obstacles, and win still more glorious victories,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

1 August 1956

Mrs Mariette Bolton, 40 Clinton Street, Orange, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of June 27th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He urges you to continue, single-mindedly, and with the same whole-hearted devotion you have always shown, to work for the Faith so dear to your

heart.  The petty irritations fade away, but the concrete services to God remain forever.  You must be very happy that you are assisted and strengthened by God to promote His Cause.

The Guardian assures you he deeply values your spirit, and he will remember you in his loving prayers.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Spirit of Bahá’u’lláh sustain you always in your greatly valued endeavours, remove every obstacle in your path, and graciously assist you to win still greater victories in the service of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

5 September 1956

Mr Percy G. Leadley,

Secretary, Regional Teaching Committee for New Zealand

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of August 3rd with enclosure has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He was happy to see this report of the activities of the Bahá’ís in New Zealand, and will be pleased to receive a copy of your News Letter regularly.

The Guardian wishes your committee and the believers there to know that he has high hopes for their future achievements in that far-off land, where they are now on the threshold of that historic event, the election of their own National Spiritual Assembly.  He deeply values their devotion, and the eager and fervent character of their services.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

6 September 1956

Mrs Clara Dunn

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The beloved Guardian has instructed me to inform you that he has recently arranged for the equivalent of 500 Sterling Pounds to be sent you, for your Continental Fund.  This money when received, should therefore be put in your

Continental Fund, to assist the Hand of the Cause in Australia and her Board, to carry forward the important teaching work now engaged in.

The Guardian sends you his loving Greetings.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

P.S.  Please let me know when the money is received.  Perhaps it has already come to hand.  If so, let me know, please.

24 September 1956

Eric Bowes

Dear Bahá’í brother,

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of August 13th, and has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

With regard to the record of your address, this is not something the Guardian could make use of, nor the copy of the talk nor the Children’s Story.  He just has no time, alas, for such details.  He does thank you however for your loving offer to have these made and sent to him.

Your activity in teaching the Faith pleases him, and he urges you to persevere in your meritorious labours.

The Guardian feels you should ask the National Spiritual Assembly as to the wisdom of using the word “Politics” in a title for a talk, as they are the best advisors.

He reads the “Herald of the South” with interest, and appreciates your services in this field.

The Bahá’ís must not fear the future:  but should continue to live normal lives, but at the same time determinedly labour for the rapid expansion and consolidation of the Faith so dear to their hearts, and so greatly needed by mankind.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless your meritorious efforts, guide and sustain you always and enable you to extend the range of your valued activities,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

24 September 1956 [Papua New Guinea]

Miss Violet Hoehnke

Dear Bahá’í sister:

This is just a brief note to acknowledge on behalf of the beloved Guardian your letter to him of August 16th, and to tell you the correction you mention has been noted.

He hopes, wherever you may be located, you will be guided and assisted in your efforts to bring other souls into the Faith, and assures you of his prayers.

With Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

30 October 1956

Mrs Mariette G. Bolton, 40 Clinton Street, Orange, NSW, Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The beloved Guardian has received your two letters of September 22nd with enclosure, and has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He believes it would be better if you would make your plans regarding New Zealand in consultation with the National Spiritual Assembly.  He fully approves of your visiting New Zealand.

He assures you he deeply appreciates your many devoted services, and remembers you in his loving prayers.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

P.S.  Your letter of April 15th was also received and he was very pleased to see you had been instrumental in attracting many new people to the Faith.  Regarding your question it is much better for the friends to give up saying “Amen” as it is a purely Christian custom and associated with the church.  He assures you the work you accomplished in New Zealand is highly meritorious.

May the Beloved, whose Faith you have served and are serving with such splendid perseverance, exemplary devotion and love, abundantly reward you for your manifold and historic accomplishments, and enable you to win still greater victories in the days to come,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

5 November 1956 [Bill Washington]

PERMITTED FIRST WEEK JANUARY

12 November 1956

Mrs Clara Dunn

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The beloved Guardian has directed me to write you concerning the contribution which he made to the Australian Continental Fund, which Miss Perks, in her letter to me of October 22nd, advises has not reached you.

This matter is being looked into at once, and it is hoped it will reach you shortly.

The Guardian thinks of you often, and of your dear husband, and the wonderful work done by him and you, in that far off land.  From on high he is watching the work as it proceeds, rejoicing in the increasing victories of the Friends in Australia and New Zealand.

The Guardian assures you of his prayers in your behalf.  He sends you his loving Greetings.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

30 November 1956

Mr H. Collis Featherstone

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your loving letter of September 21st was duly received, and its contents presented to the beloved Guardian.

He has carefully reviewed the matter, and feels it would be a mistake to have any publicity concerning our activities in the South Seas, no matter how favourable.

Our numbers are few, and the Faith weak in most areas.  To turn the public eye on our activities would bring friends, as well as enemies.  However, the enemies, who would be strongly entrenched, could make it very difficult for our pioneers and the new Bahá’ís.  Thus, the Guardian feels it would be highly inadvisable for an article to be printed in the Pacific Islands Monthly at this time.  He hopes you can explain the matter in such a way as to retain the friendship of Mr Maude.

The Guardian sends you his loving Greetings.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

3 December 1956 [Rolf Schiller]

WELCOME PILGRIMAGE FIRST WEEK JANUARY

5 December 1956

Miss Thelma Perks

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your loving letter of November 22nd written on behalf of Mrs Dunn was duly received.

The Guardian is happy to learn that the funds he sent for the Continental Fund were received by Mrs Dunn.

The Guardian asks that you give Mrs Dunn his love, and assures her of his prayers in her behalf.

He likewise prays for you, for your work.  He hopes you may be the means of bringing eternal life to many seeking souls.

With loving Bahá’í Greetings,

I am, faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

6 December 1956 [Gilbert and Ellice Islands]

Mrs Roy Fernie

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The letters you forwarded with your note brought great happiness to our beloved Guardian’s heart, and enclosed you will find two answers.

I trust I have understood correctly that, although the letter of Kokoria and Tokarake is in the singular, two people are involved?  In any case I have addressed it in the plural,—perhaps you will explain the difficulty if I have been wrong.

The Guardian hopes that Mrs Frances Heller will be able to carry on the work that you have initiated there.  It is going to be very difficult for the local Bahá’ís to transfer their affections from you and your dear husband to a new pioneer, however worthy she may be.  He urges you to try and get your husband back into the Islands, if at all possible, so that you can continue serving there together, rather than both leaving.

He will pray for your success in the Holy Shrines, and deeply appreciates the wonderful work you have accomplished.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty reward you abundantly for your exemplary and historic accomplishments in the service of His Faith, and assuring you of my loving and fervent prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

6 December 1956 [Gilbert and Ellice Islands]

Kokoria and Tokarake

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of October 14th was received with the translation enclosed, and the beloved Guardian was very happy to hear from you.

He was particularly glad to know that you are going to answer the call of the Bahá’ís in Samoa, and arise to assist them in spreading this glorious Faith there.  There is no doubt that, although the European and American Bahá’í teachers have exerted a great influence in the Pacific Islands and carried the Message of God to those distant parts, the work in the future must go forward through the efforts of the Pacific Islanders themselves.

He hopes that you will be richly blessed in your work to promote the Cause of God, and he assures you of his prayers for your success in the Holy Shrines.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and enable you to promote the best interests of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

28 December 1956 [Yerrinbool Summer School]

ASSURE ATTENDANTS SCHOOL LOVING FERVENT PRAYERS DEEPLY APPRECIATE RESOLVE URGE PERSEVERANCE

1 January 1957 [New Zealand Summer School]

ASSURE ATTENDANTS LOVING FERVENT PRAYERS URGE CONCENTRATION OBJECTIVES PLAN DEEPEST APPRECIATION SHOGHI

11 January 1957 [Brisbane Bahá’ís]

DELIGHTED ASSURE LOVING PRAYERS

15 February 1957 [New Caledonia]

Mr Shapoor Soheili

Dear Bahá’í brother:

The loving contribution which you made to the International Fund, through Mr P. Meade Almond, is greatly appreciated, and the Guardian has directed me to acknowledge it on his behalf.  Receipt is enclosed.

The Guardian wishes you to know how much he values your devoted and self-sacrificing services to the Cause of God.  He prays that your teaching efforts in that important land will be confirmed and many seeking souls find eternal life through your selfless efforts.

New Caledonia is a very important center, and he hopes there may be many strong Bahá’ís, and Bahá’í centers in that land.

He will pray for you, and for the success of your work.  He sends his loving Greetings.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

17 January 1957 [Society Islands]

ASSURE LOVING FERVENT PRAYERS ADMIRE SERVICES

3 March 1957 [Peggy and Stephan Chorvat]

Mr and Mrs Stephan Chorvat, and Nuri

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of February 10th with enclosures has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf, and to thank you for the photographs.

He was very happy to hear that you are Czechoslovakian, and that you were able to hear of the Cause in your native land.  It would indeed be rendering a great service if you could visit that country again, and with discretion and wisdom do some teaching work.

Unfortunately he has not time to go into such detailed questions as you have asked.  He has so many pilgrims and so much correspondence, as well as managing the administrative affairs of the Faith at its World Centre, that it is impossible for him anymore to go into detailed explanations.  He would suggest that you refer your questions to some of the Bahá’ís in Australia who are well-grounded in the Teachings, and discuss them with them.  As you acquire a deeper knowledge of the Teachings, and read, yourself, and study more, you will find that most of these are no longer questions at all for you, but are clear.  He would suggest also you read “Some Answered Questions”.

One thing he can assure you however is that there is nothing in the Bahá’í Faith about flying saucers.

He is happy to see that you are associating with the believers, teaching the Faith, and corresponding with Vuk Echtner—a most devoted Bahá’í.  In all of these ways you can truly help the Faith, and he wishes you every success, and assures you he will pray for your success in the Holy Shrines.

With warmest greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

3 March 1957 [Papua New Guinea]

Miss Violet Hoehnke

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your letter of February 13th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

As regards the questions you asked:  Under no circumstances should Bahá’ís drink.  It is so unambiguously forbidden in the Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, that there is no excuse for them, even touching it in the form of a toast, or in a burning plum pudding; in fact, in any way.

There is no reason why a Bahá’í may not serve some alcoholic refreshments to their guests, if they feel sincerely that this will further their teaching work.  If they can obtain their objectives without doing so, it would be better; but we don’t want to give people the impression that we are peculiar in every way.

He is delighted that you are becoming known and respected in the community, and he will certainly pray that you may begin to see the reward of your patience in the form of new believers.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless your highly meritorious efforts, guide and sustain you always, reward you for your historic accomplishments, and enable you to enrich the record of your unforgettable services,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

18 March 1957 [Papua New Guinea]

Violet Hoehnke

Dear Bahá’í sister:

The beloved Guardian has instructed me to write and thank you for your loving Naw-Rúz greeting, which he appreciated receiving.

He is very proud of the work you are accomplishing there in conjunction with the other Bahá’ís in that area, and assures you he prays for you all in the Holy Shrines.

With warmest Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

3 April 1957 [Virginia Breaks, Caroline Islands]

PERMITTED NEXT JANUARY

4 April 1957

Mrs Clara Dunn

Dear Bahá’í sister:

At the instruction of our beloved Guardian, I am sending you the enclosed Message for you to read on his behalf at the New Zealand Convention, and then turn over to the new New Zealand National Spiritual Assembly for their files.

Dr Giachery will be mailing you direct from Rome, where they have been made up, two albums, showing the Holy Places, Bahá’í Temples and Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds.  These are a gift of the Guardian to the incoming National Spiritual Assembly and the New Zealand Community.  Please share them with the friends at the Convention, and then give them to the National Spiritual Assembly.

You will also be receiving some attar of rose, with which the Guardian would like you to anoint the friends who attend the Convention.

You may be sure his loving prayers will be sustaining you on this historic occasion, and one, the joy of which no doubt dear Father Dunn is sharing with you in the other world.

With warm Bahá’í love,

Rúḥíyyíh

4 April 1957 [New Zealand Convention]

I share with the assembled delegates, gathered to elect, on this historic occasion, the second National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the Antipodes, the feelings of profound satisfaction and gratitude to Bahá’u’lláh evoked by this epoch-making event in the evolution of His Faith in that far-

off region of the globe.  I am deeply conscious of the decisive share which the Australian Bahá’í Community, labouring during more than three decades, for the spread of the light of this glorious Revelation among the highly progressive people of that distant continent, has had in the laying of the foundation of the Administrative Order and the erection of yet another pillar of the future Universal House of Justice in this remote Dominion.

The emergence of this independent Bahá’í Community, no matter how limited its numerical strength and modest its resources, must be regarded as a highly significant development in the rise and establishment of the Bahá’í Faith in the Pacific Area, and should synchronise with the formulation, on the part of the National Spiritual Assembly now being elected in that Island, of a subsidiary Six-Year Plan, designed to reinforce substantially the numerical strength of the Community; to multiply its Centres, as well as its Local Spiritual Assemblies; to incorporate the solidly grounded amongst them; to inaugurate a National Fund; to obtain recognition for both the Bahá’í marriage certificate and the Bahá’í Holy Days; to lend an unprecedented impetus to the conversion of the Maoris, and to ensure their active participation in the conduct of Bahá’í administrative institutions; to extend the scope of the work already initiated in the South Island; to incorporate the newly formed National Spiritual Assembly; and to select and acquire the site for the first Mashriqu’l-Adhkár of that Dominion.

I call upon the members of the Australian National Spiritual Assembly, as well as the members of the Australian Bahá’í Community, to continue to lend their valued support to this newly fledged sister Community, and to enable it, through the extension of material assistance, as well as the dispatch of visiting teachers and pioneers, to contribute, in an ever-increasing measure, to the furtherance of the magnificent and colossal campaign now being so vigorously conducted in the North, in the South, and in the heart of the Pacific Ocean.

May the outpourings of the Holy Spirit continue to energise this small yet resolute, forward marching, dedicated Community, and may the outcome of the collective efforts of its members contribute decisively to the triumphant consummation of the World Crusade on which the entire body of the followers of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh have so confidently embarked.

Shoghi

4 April 1957 [Collis Featherstone]

DELIGHTED LOVING APPRECIATION

9 April 1957

Miss Virginia Breaks, Trust Territory Gov’t., Truk, E. Caroline Islands

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your loving letter of March 17th was duly received and its contents presented to the beloved Guardian.  He has directed me to acknowledge it on his behalf.  Your contribution to the International Fund is greatly appreciated.  Receipt is enclosed.

The Guardian greatly values your devoted services to the Cause of God.  You have arisen with consecration and dedication to spread the Glad Tidings and establish the Faith in that far off land.  He prays for you, and for the success of your work.  He is sure the blessings of the Master will be with you, and you will be both guided and confirmed by the Holy Spirit.

He hopes you will be able to remain, so as to reap the harvest of your efforts, and that the light of guidance will be given to many.  The goal is a Spiritual Assembly, and if that could be achieved it would be a distinct and historic victory for the Faith.

He sends you his loving Greetings.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

22 April 1957 [Bahá’ís of Guam, Mariana Islands]

DELIGHTED ASSURE PRAYERS

17 April 1957 [Australian National Convention]

DEEPLY APPRECIATE MESSAGE APPEAL ENTIRE BODY AUSTRALIAN BELIEVERS REDOUBLE EFFORTS DISCHARGE BEFITTINGLY SACRED HEAVY MANIFOLD RESPONSIBILITIES PRAYING FERVENTLY FULFILMENT CHERISHED HOPES DEEPEST LOVE SHOGHI

28 April 1957 [New Zealand Assembly]

DEEPLY TOUCHED MESSAGE WELCOME DEDICATION DELEGATES MEMBERS FERVENTLY SUPPLICATING RAPID DEVELOPMENT INSTITUTIONS FAITH DEEPEST LOVE

5 May 1957

Miss … and Mr …

Dear …,

Your letter of April 23rd has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

The question of your marriage is one which is clearly understood by the National Assembly, and the Guardian thought by most of the believers; and

he is surprised that you should have been advised by fellow-Bahá’ís that you could have a Christian marriage, in view of the fact that you are both Bahá’ís.  It is only fair to tell you that, if as registered believers you are married in a Christian ceremony, you will lose your voting rights.

You did quite right to obtain the permission of your parents; and he hopes that now you will be able to extricate yourselves from this difficult position you find yourselves in, without angering Mr …

As you are aware, the Guardian feels that the Bahá’ís must, in view of the condition of the world today, stand forth firmly and courageously as followers of Bahá’u’lláh, obeying His Laws, and seeking to build his World Order.  Through compromise we will never be able to establish our Faith or win others’ hearts to it.  This involves often great personal sacrifice, but we know that, when we do the right thing, God gives us the strength to carry it out, and we attract His blessings.  We learn at such times that our calamity is indeed a blessing.

He will pray for the satisfactory solution of your problem.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty guide, bless and sustain you, and aid you to promote the vital interests of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

14 May 1957

Mr David Podger

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of May 5th has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

Regarding the advice you asked him for, he feels that to devote all one’s studies with the object of becoming a Bahá’í author, is rather risky.  We need Bahá’í authors badly, but you have to be assured that you have the talent to earn your living in that field, and also serve the Faith in it.

He feels that the best thing for you to do is to devote your studies to acquiring a sound education, if you like along literary lines, and then see what develops.

In the meantime, the greatest possible service you could render is to help establish a new Spiritual Assembly.  If there isn’t one where you are, then you have your job cut out for you, so to speak.

He will pray that you may be successful, and urges you to bear in mind that the most important thing of all at present is teaching the Faith.  We should go on deepening our own knowledge and understanding of it, but now is the time above all to bring in new people, and carry the Message to the masses.

With Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty bless, guide and sustain you, and aid you to promote effectively the vital interests of His Faith and of its institutions,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

15 May 1957 [Caroline Islands]

Virginia Breaks

Dear Virginia:

Your loving letter of April 28th was duly received and its contents presented to the beloved Guardian.  He was very happy indeed to learn of the translating work going on in the Ponapean language.  As soon as a pamphlet is translated he would appreciate your sending him a copy, in fact four or five copies would be better.

The Guardian advises it is satisfactory to set your date as the first week of January.  You are therefore welcome to arrive any date during the first week of January, 1958.

We will be looking forward with anticipation to your visit.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

I am, faithfully yours,

Leroy

31 May 1957

Miss … and Mr …

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

This is just a note to acknowledge receipt of yours of May 22, and to assure you that the beloved Guardian was happy to hear you could change your plans, and that this marked a step forward—as obedience to the Laws of God always does—in the progress of the Faith in that area.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

Assuring you of my loving prayers for your success and spiritual advancement,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

31 May 1957 [Greta Lamprill]

PRAYING EARLY RETURN TAHITI

13 August 1957 [Marie Dunning]

POSTPONE PILGRIMAGE

17 August 1957

Miss Thelma Perks

c/o Mr Featherstone, 24 Hargrave St., Semaphore, South Australia

Dear Bahá’í sister:

Your loving letter of May 7th was duly received and presented to the beloved Guardian.  He has asked me to inform you that he greatly appreciates your devoted services to the Cause of God.  He read with interest your comment on your recent trip to assist the pioneers in Cook Islands.  This type of service is very admirable and extremely helpful to the Faith.  He hopes that you and others will be able to visit the pioneers in these far off areas as frequently as possible.

The beloved Guardian assures you of his continuous prayers in your behalf.  He hopes that you will be able to continue your devoted services in the teaching field with increasing intensity and that many seeking souls will find eternal life through your selfless actions.

He sends you his loving Greetings.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

18 August 1957

Mrs Clara Dunn

Dear Bahá’í sister:

At the instruction of our beloved Guardian I am writing to inform you that Mr Varqa will soon be sending you five hundred pounds as the Guardian’s contribution to the Continental Fund you administer.

He hopes you are keeping in good health, and sends you his loving greetings and assures you of his prayers for you.

With warm Bahá’í love,

Rúḥíyyih

30 August 1957

Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the City of Auckland, Care of Mrs Margaret Harnish, Secretary

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

This is just a brief note, on behalf of the beloved Guardian, to acknowledge your letter of July 5th (8th Raḥmat 114), and tell you he appreciates your action in sending the cable to Iran, and assures you of his loving prayers for the rapid progress of the Faith in Auckland.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty sustain you in your constant and meritorious endeavours, guide every step you take, and bless every effort you exert, for the promotion of the interests of His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

30 August 1957

Auxiliary Board Members Mr H. Collis Featherstone Miss Thelma Perks

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

The beloved Guardian has received your letter of July 6th, and has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He approves of and appreciates what you are doing and the way you are doing it, in view of Mother Dunn’s condition.  You should continue to carry forward this work as you have been doing.

He values the judgement you have exercised in this matter, as well as your constant and devoted labours for the Faith.

With warm Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty guide your steps and sustain you in discharging these added and sacred responsibilities that you are now assuming, and enable you to enrich, in the days to come, the record of your splendid services to His Faith,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

19 September 1957 [Society Islands]

Jean Sevin

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your letter of August 9th with enclosure has been received by the beloved Guardian, and he has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

He is very proud of your devotion, your steadfastness services and your faith.

He approves of your plan of remaining in Tahiti with your father and assisting in the work there; and later going to France for a visit, and returning to Tuamotu, to which he attaches great importance.

He assures you of his loving prayers, not only for you, but also for your spiritual child, Daniel Haumont, who is trying with such devotion to establish the Faith in such a difficult place as the Marquesas.  He will also remember your father and your adopted daughter in his supplications, and will pray that your own problems may be solved.

Your name has been placed on his list of those Bahá’ís who are awaiting permission to make the pilgrimage, and he will let you know when it is convenient for him to have you come.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty reward you abundantly for your truly exemplary and historic services, and enable you to enhance the splendid record of your highly meritorious accomplishments,

Your true brother,

Shoghi

24 September 1957 [Clara Dunn]

LOVING FERVENT PRAYERS SURROUNDING YOU SHOGHI

3 October 1957 [Collis Featherstone]

ANNOUNCE YOUR ELEVATION RANK HAND CAUSE CONFIDENT NEW HONOUR WILL ENABLE YOU RISE GREATER HEIGHTS SERVICE BELOVED FAITH

11 October 1957 [Collis Featherstone]

CONFIDENT NEW HONOUR ENABLE YOU ATTAIN GREATER HEIGHTS SERVICE

20 October 1957 [Hawaii]

Mr Roy Fernie Mrs Roy Fernie

Dear Bahá’í Friends:

Your letter of September 27th has been received and the beloved Guardian has instructed me to answer you on his behalf.

As regards certain questions you asked him:  your ultimate goal should be to return to the Gilberts.  He thinks that no pressure should be brought at this time by the American NSA or any American officials on the authorities in order to get Mr Fernie back there.  The wrong step could mean permanent opposition to his return.  If you had occasion at a future date to speak personally to the High Commissioner this might be the best plan.  In the meantime he would be very glad to see you both in Honiara or Guam.  He does not feel you should waste the time and money involved on a trip to America.

He hopes the book Mrs Fernie is writing will meet a definite need, and he urges you both to persevere in your efforts to get a job in the Pacific area.

You may be sure he will pray for your success, and he deeply appreciates all you have accomplished.

With warm Bahá’í love,

R. Rabbani

May the Almighty abundantly reward you for your past, unforgettable and historic services in so remote an area of the globe, and graciously assist you to return to that field and there enrich the record of your splendid and enduring achievements

Your true brother,

Shoghi

27 October 1957

Mr Collis Featherstone, 24 Hargrave St., Semaphore, South Australia

Dear Bahá’í brother:

Your loving letter of October 6th was duly received and its contents have been presented to the beloved Guardian.

He has been very happy indeed to learn of the intensive manner in which you and the members of your family have been serving the Cause of God.

He sincerely hopes that all of your efforts will be both guided and confirmed, so that many seeking souls may find eternal life through your sacrificial and consecrated services.

The situation in Samoa is distressing and the Guardian hopes that there will be no complications develop so far as the Faith is concerned.  If the Friends all remain firm and continue their active teaching service it will demonstrate the strength of the Cause of God and its ability to overcome the problems of life which arise from time to time.

The Guardian wishes me to assure you of his prayers in your behalf.  He sends you his loving Greetings.

Faithfully yours,

Leroy Ioas

The passing of Shoghi Effendi

4 November 9.40 pm [from Haifa]

WITH DEEP SADNESS ADVISE BELOVED GUARDIAN DESPERATELY ILL ASIATIC FLU PLEASE IMMEDIATELY INFORM ALL FRIENDS SUPPLICATE PRAYERS DIVINE PROTECTION FAITH LEROY IOAS

5 November 11.55 am [from Haifa]

SHOGHI EFFENDI BELOVED OF ALL HEARTS SACRED TRUST GIVEN BELIEVERS BY MASTER PASSED AWAY SUDDEN HEART ATTACK IN SLEEP FOLLOWING ASIATIC FLU.  URGE BELIEVERS REMAIN STEADFAST CLING INSTITUTION HANDS LOVINGLY REARED RECENTLY REINFORCED EMPHASISED BY BELOVED GUARDIAN.  ONLY ONENESS HEART ONENESS PURPOSE CAN BEFITTINGLY TESTIFY LOYALTY ALL NATIONAL ASSEMBLIES BELIEVERS DEPARTED GUARDIAN WHO SACRIFICED SELF UTTERLY FOR SERVICE FAITH RUHIYYIH URGENT INFORM FEATHERSTONE DUNN FOLLOWING HEARTBROKEN ANNOUNCE SUDDEN PASSING BELOVED GUARDIAN AFTER INFLUENZA.  FUNERAL LONDON SATURDAY IF YOU OR ANY BOARD MEMBERS CAN ATTEND WELCOME STOP PLANNING IMPORTANT MEETING ALL HANDS SOON HAIFA THIS SHOULD HAVE PRIORITY RUHIYYIH

5 November 7.30 pm [from London]

BELOVED ALL HEARTS PRECIOUS GUARDIAN CAUSE GOD PASSED PEACEFULLY AWAY YESTERDAY AFTER ASIATIC FLU APPEAL HANDS NATIONAL ASSEMBLIES AUXILIARY BOARDS SHELTER BELIEVERS ASSIST MEET HEARTRENDING SUPREME TEST.  FUNERAL OUR BELOVED SATURDAY 9TH LONDON HANDS ASSEMBLY BOARD MEMBERS INVITED ATTEND ANY PRESS RELEASE SHOULD STATE MEETING HANDS SHORTLY HAIFA WILL MAKE ANNOUNCEMENT TO BAHAI WORLD REGARDING FUTURE PLANS.  URGE HOLD MEMORIAL MEETINGS SATURDAY RUHIYYIH

8 November 1957 [Mariana Islands]

Cynthia Olson

GRIEVED ANNOUNCE PRECIOUS GUARDIAN PASSED AWAY LONDON NOVEMBER FOUR FOLLOWING ASIATIC FLU FUNERAL SATURDAY MORNING URGE HOLD MEMORIAL GATHERING FUTURE PLANS WILL BE ANNOUNCED AFTER MEETING HANDS HAIFA INFORM VIRGINIA DELAY PILGRIMAGE UNTIL FURTHER NOTICE CHARLOTTE

9 November [from London]

BELOVED GUARDIAN LAYED REST LONDON ACCORDING LAWS AQDAS IN BEAUTIFUL BEFITTING SPOT AFTER IMPRESSIVE CEREMONY HELD PRESENCE MULTITUDE BELIEVERS REPRESENTING OVER 25 COUNTRIES EAST WEST.  DOCTORS ASSURES SUDDEN PASSING INVOLVED NO SUFFERING BLESSED COUNTENANCE BORE IMPRESSION INFINITE BEAUTY PEACE MAJESTY.  18 HANDS ASSEMBLED FUNERAL URGE NATIONAL BODIES REQUEST ALL BELIEVERS HOLD MEMORIAL MEETINGS 18TH NOVEMBER COMMEMORATING DAYSPRING DIVINE GUIDANCE WHO HAS LEFT US AFTER 36 YEARS UTTER SELF SACRIFICE CEASELESS LABOURS CONSTANT VIGILANCE RUHIYYIH ASSURE FRIENDS BELOVED SACRED GUARDIAN BEFITTINGLY LAID REST SURROUNDED BY LARGE REPRESENTATIVES GATHERING BELIEVERS EAST WEST LIGHT OUR LIVES DEPARTED WE MUST NOW STAND FIRM REMEMBERING PEERLESS EXAMPLE HIS DEDICATION WORK BLESSED PERFECTION GLORIOUS VICTORIES BE WON PLANS HE LONGED SEE COMPLETED ONLY REDEDICATION GREATER UNITY STEADFAST SERVICE CAN BEFITTINGLY SHOW OUR GRIEF MAKE US ACCEPTABLE HOLY THRESHOLD RUHIYYIH IMPORTANT URGENT MEETING ALL HANDS CALLED HAIFA SUNDAY NOVEMBER SEVENTEENTH PLEASE CABLE WHEN YOU ARRIVE LOVING GREETINGS IOAS HANDS CAUSE HOLY LAND

Biographical notes

Ala’i, Lilian (née Wyss)

Lilian and her brother Frank became Bahá’ís at Yerrinbool Summer School in January 1944.  During 1947–1952 Lilian travelled to Switzerland then pioneered in Norway.  In December 1952, at the request of Shoghi Effendi, she returned to Australia to assist the Bahá’í Community.  At the beginning of the World Crusade her attempts to enter the Solomon Islands were not successful.  However, on 14 January 1954 she arrived at Apia, Western Samoa, and was named a Knight of Bahá’u’lláh.  That November she married Suhayl Ala’i.  Both were founding members of the LSA of Apia, Western Samoa, and the LSAs of Pago Pago and Fagaitua in American Samoa.  Both served on the South Pacific Regional Spiritual Assembly established in 1959.  Lilian worked for many years on the committee that produced radio and television programs.  She was a member of the National Assembly of Samoa from its formation in 1970 until 1989.

Almond, Maysie and Percy

Maysie and Perce Almond became the first South Australian Bahá’ís after hearing Hyde Dunn speak at a “New Thought” meeting in Adelaide in November 1923, Perce was an accountant by profession and Maysie a teacher.  They helped establish the first Adelaide Assembly, in December 1924, and remained part of the Assembly after moving to Blackwood about 1928.  The Almonds attended the first National Convention, in 1934, and Perce was elected to the first National Assembly.  Maysie was Adelaide Assembly’s correspondence secretary into early 1930s.  In 1943 she moved to Melbourne to open a Bahá’í Centre; and in 1946 lived in Bowral, close to the Yerrinbool School.  In 1953 she moved to Murray Bridge, and later assisted teaching work in Sydney.  In later years the Almonds helped established Burnside LSA.  After Maysie’s passing in 1960 Perce married Ada Roper, and in 1963 attended the London Congress.  He passed away in Leabrook in 1970.

Appleton, Dorothy and Matthew

Dorothy (1906–1991) and Matthew (1903–1979) Appleton became Bahá’ís in Adelaide in 1931.  In the 1930s Matt served on the Herald of the South committee.  He was one of the few Australian Bahá’ís who served in the armed forces during the Second World War.  Upon his return to Adelaide he served on the Regional Teaching Committee for South Australia, Western Australia, Victoria and Broken Hill.  In 1946 the Appletons transferred to Yerrinbool, where they lived in the “annex” at the Bahá’í School.  Dorothy served on the School Committee, and both served on Yerrinbool Local Assembly.  Matt was delegate to National Convention in 1949, elected to the National Assembly and became its vice-chairman.  In 1950 the Appletons transferred to Port Lincoln in South Australia.  Matthew passed away in 1979 and Dorothy in 1991.

Archibald, Ethna

Ethna Archibald became a Bahá’í in Auckland in 1948.  In 1956 she pioneered to Northern Rhodesia (later Zambia), and was elected to the first National Spiritual Assembly of South Central Africa.  From 1973 she served as secretary to the Continental Board of Counsellors for Australasia, before moving to the Bahá’í World Centre.  Ethna passed way in New Zealand in 2003.

Audenwood, A.

Mrs A. Audenwood became a Bahá’í in New Zealand 1950–1951.  Her husband Mr H. O. Audenwood was posthumously enrolled as a Bahá’í in Auckland in 1952.

Axford, Emily

Emily Axford (1870–1949) was born Emily Mary Summersgill in Yorkshire, England.  After marrying Sidney Axford, they emigrated to New Zealand in 1907.  She became a Bahá’í in Auckland in January 1923 having met Clara and Hyde Dunn.  She had been a Socialist and had investigated several religious movements closely.  She served the Cause as administrator, public speaker, and author.  Her talk on “the non-political character of Bahá’í Faith”, first delivered at 1937 convention, was reprinted in American “Bahá’í News” at the Guardian’s request, and subsequently appeared in “The Bahá’í World” vol. VII.  She was on Auckland’s Local Assembly from its establishment (1925–1926), serving first as secretary, then, throughout the 1930s and into the 1940s, as chairman.  She was elected one of Auckland’s delegates to National Convention from 1936.  After moving to Sydney in 1944 she was often one of Sydney’s delegates.  She served on the National Spiritual Assembly of Australia and New Zealand c. 1935–1944 and was first editor of the “Bahá’í Quarterly” 1936–1944.  In addition, Mrs Axford engaged in educational and civic affairs, at one time as vice-president of New Zealand’s National Council of Women and was an active Esperantist.  In the 1930s and 1940s she undertook numerous important teaching trips on

behalf of the National Assembly.  In England 1938–1939 she associated with numerous Bahá’í communities and with Lady Blomfield.  After assisting in the location and purchase of the first National Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds in Sydney in 1944 Mrs Axford returned to Auckland where she continued to serve on New Zealand’s Teaching Committee, Auckland’s Summer School Committee, and the National Assembly’s History Committee.

Baker, Euphemia

Euphemia Eleanor “Effie” Baker (1880–1968), an artist, model maker, and photographer, and first Australian woman to become a Bahá’í, met Clara and Hyde Dunn in Melbourne in early 1923, she subsequently travelled Australia and New Zealand with Martha Root in 1924, joined the first group of Australian and New Zealand pilgrims to the Holy Land in 1925, and remained in Haifa as hostess at the Western Pilgrim Hostel until 1936.  While in Palestine Effie also assisted Shoghi Effendi as photographer and as first keeper of the International Archives.  Her photographs of the Bahá’í monument gardens on Mt. Carmel appeared in the early volumes of “The Bahá’í World”.  During 1930–1931 Effie travelled through ‘Iráq and Persia photographing sites and relics associated with the origins of the Bábí and Bahá’í religions for inclusion with Shoghi Effendi’s translation into English of Nabil’s Narrative (“The Dawn-Breakers”).  Effie returned to Australia in 1936, residing in Goldsborough Victoria until moving in 1963 to the Ḥaẓírat’l-Quds in Sydney, where she died in January 1968.

Bean, Jack

A physician with the Education Department who had been prominent in the Theosophical movement, Jack Bean became a Bahá’í in Goulburn in 1944.  He moved to Yerrinbool in 1947, and the following year served on the NSW Regional Teaching Committee.  Dr Bean contributed to several Yerrinbool Summer School programs, particularly concerning study of Nabil’s Narrative, and the Sabean and Hindu religions.  He was one of several Bahá’ís who donated land to the Yerrinbool school property.  After his correspondence with Shoghi Effendi concerning the Bahá’í Faith and Theosophy, Dr Bean chose to remain with the latter.

Beaumont, Alice

Mrs Alice Beaumont became a Bahá’í in Adelaide in the 1920s.  She served on the Adelaide LSA in the early 1930s and was subsequently a member of Burnside Community.  She died in 1938.

Bedikian, Victoria

Victoria Bedikian (d. 1955), from Montclair, New Jersey, promoted the education of Bahá’í children.  In the 1920s she produced the World Fellowship

Magazine and The Magazine of the Children of the Kingdom and was in close correspondence with the Australian and New Zealand Bahá’ís.

Blakely, Elsa and Dudley

Knights of Bahá’u’lláh to Tonga, Dudley and Elsa Blakely had taught the Bahá’í Faith in British Guyana in South America in the 1930s.  They arrived in Tonga in July 1954.  Elsa, known as “Judy”, was a member of the Regional Spiritual Assembly of the South Pacific in its first years.  In Tonga they became friendly with Queen Salote, and with other members of the royal family.  Dudley, an artist, sculptor, and designer, designed Tonga’s first coins.  In September 1963 the Blakelys moved from Tonga to Hawaii, where Dudley was appointed Director of the Bishop Museum.  In 1977 the Blakelys pioneered to the Bahamas, and the following year settled in Georgia, USA, Dudley passed away in 1982 and Elsa in 1988.

Bluett, Noel

Noel Bluett (1930–2014) served on the National Spiritual Assemblies of Australia and Papua New Guinea.  He became a Bahá’í youth in the Sydney in 1949.  In 1952 he and Margaret Mason married, and pioneered to Leeton, NSW.  In 1954 the Bluetts moved to Canberra.  Noel served on the National Spiritual Assembly from 1959 until he and Margaret pioneered to Papua New Guinea in 1965.  Both Margaret and Noel served for many years on the National Assembly of Papua New Guinea, first established in 1969.  Noel was later an Auxiliary Board Member.  In 1991 the Bluetts moved to Cairns, Australia.

Blum, Gertrude and Alvin

Gertrude (d. 1993) and Alvin Blum (d. 1968) moved from North America to New Zealand in July 1947.  Alvin was frequently a delegate to National Convention and served on the Australian and New Zealand National Spiritual Assembly 1949–1953.  Gertrude was also elected to the national body 1951–1953.  At the commencement of the World Crusade the Blums pioneered to the Solomon Islands and were named Knights of Bahá’u’lláh.  After initial hardships, the Blums established several successful businesses.  Alvin was elected to the South Pacific Islands Regional Assembly, formed in 1959, and Gertrude was also elected in the first year.  Both travelled periodically in the Australasian region.  During 1964–1969 Gertrude served as secretary of the South West Pacific Ocean National Assembly, and 1969–1973 served on the region’s Auxiliary Board.  In June 1989 she received the MBE (Most Excellent Order of the British Empire) for “long and dedicated services to the community and church in the Bahá’í Faith”.

Blundell, Ethel

Ethel Blundell (1877–1962), the daughter of Sarah Blundell, was one of the first group of Australian and New Zealand pilgrims to the Holy Land.  She was elected to the Local Spiritual Assembly of Auckland from its establishment in 1927, and in 1934 was a delegate to the first National Convention for Australia and New Zealand.  She was elected to the National Spiritual Assembly from 1934 to 1944.  She frequently spoke at public meetings in Auckland and at Summer Schools, and into the 1940s served on the “Bahá’í Quarterly” committee.

Blundell, Hugh

Hugh Blundell (1884–1976), the son of Sarah Blundell, was not a Bahá’í when he visited the Holy Land in 1925 but joined having met and conversed with Shoghi Effendi.  He served on the National Spiritual Assembly in the 1940s and was closely associated with the founding of New Zealand’s Summer School.  In the 1940s he served on the Regional Teaching Committee for New Zealand, and in 1958 was appointed as the first Auxiliary Board member in New Zealand.

Blundell, Sarah

Sarah Blundell (1850–1934), together with her children Ethel and Hugh, accompanied Margaret Stevenson and Effie Baker to the Holy Land early in 1925 as the first Bahá’í pilgrims from Australasia.  Mrs Sarah Blundell, born in Burwell, Cambridgeshire, and raised a devout Quaker, arrived in New Zealand with her husband and seven children in 1886.  She had read of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit to London published in The Christian Commonwealth, and so knew something of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings and had even considered herself as being a Bahá’í when she met Clara and Hyde Dunn on their second evening in Auckland in 1922.  Through Mrs Blundell the Dunns met many others receptive to their message and were able to establish a firm Bahá’í group in Auckland.

Bolton, Mariette and Stanley W.

Canadian-born Mariette (1900–1968) and Stanley W. Bolton (1892–1966) settled in Australia in 1924 and met Clara and Hyde Dunn in 1925.  They joined the Community after meeting Keith Ransom-Kehler in Sydney in 1931 and became two of its most enterprising and spirited advocates.  The Boltons studied chiropractic in North America 1931–34, and established their practice in Sydney.  They were foundation members of the Sydney, Yerrinbool, and Ku-ring-gai Assemblies, and Mariette was instrumental in the establishment of the Caringbah (later Sutherland), Wollongong and Orange Local Assemblies.  Their property at Yerrinbool, south of Sydney, became the Yerrinbool Bahá’í school.  Both served on the National Assembly, Mariette from 1948 to 1950, and Stanley from 1937 to 1958.  In 1952 Mariette took the Bahá’í teachings to New

Caledonia.  Stanley died in Orange, NSW in 1966, and Mariette continued teaching in Australia and the Pacific until her passing in 1968.

Bolton, Mariette

Mariette E. Bolton, daughter of Mariette and Stanley W.  Bolton, married Mr W. O. Peterson and lived in the United States c. 1946–1950 before returning to Australia.  They resided at Yerrinbool then Orange before returning to Colorado, North America, in 1956.

Bolton, Antoinette

Marie Antoinette Bolton, daughter of Mariette and Stanley W. Bolton, married James Lovelady about 1946 and lived in the United States until 1948.  They returned and settled in Sydney, and were active in youth activities, and public speaking engagements in Sydney and surrounding cities until they moved to Toowoomba in Queensland late in 1949.  Mrs Lovelady died on 11 May 1959.

Bolton, Stanley P.

Stanley P. Bolton (1929–2015), son of Mariette and Stanley W. Bolton, arrived at Nuku’alofa, Tonga, on 25 January 1954 and was named a Knight of Bahá’u’lláh.  He subsequently returned to Australia, and served on the National Spiritual Assembly 1951–1953 and again 1965–1986.

Bosch, Louise and John

John and Louise Bosch, of California, pioneered to Tahiti for five months in 1920.  Their property near San Francisco became the Bosch School.

Bowes, Marjorie and Eric

Marjorie (1902–1988) and Eric Bowes (1902–1989) became Bahá’ís in Adelaide in 1949.  Eric had been an active Congregationalist and contributed greatly to the Bahá’í community’s appreciation of the relationship between the Bahá’í Revelation and Christian teachings.  Eric and Marjorie served on the Herald of the South Committee.  Eric also produced radio talks, papers, and books (1958, Great Themes of Life).  In the later years of the World Crusade Eric was appointed to the Auxiliary Board and travelled extensively visiting and encouraging the Australian Bahá’í communities.

Breaks, Virginia

Miss Virginia Breaks (d. 1993) arrived on Truk in the Eastern Caroline Islands in November 1953 and was named by Shoghi Effendi a Knight of Bahá’u’lláh.  In 1964 she became Auxiliary Board Member for the North Pacific.  For many years her professional work required constant travel to

hospitals throughout the islands.  In retirement, Miss Breaks resided in Yap, Western Caroline Islands.

Brewer, Ernest

Ernest Brewer, a member of the Sydney Bahá’í community from the 1920s, was one of Hyde Dunn’s close friends.  The manager of the Daily Guardian newspaper, he was secretary of Sydney Assembly from about 1926 to 1933.

Brooks, Hilda

Hilda Brooks (d. 1969) became a Bahá’í in Adelaide after attending a lecture by Keith Ransom-Kehler in September 1931.  She subsequently served the Australian Bahá’í community as public speaker, author, and administrator, for no less than three decades.  In 1932 she was elected secretary of Adelaide Local Assembly, and in 1934 was elected secretary of the first National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand.  She was secretary for ten years, and a member of the national body until 1947.  From the late 1930s Miss Brooks travelled periodically to Melbourne and Brisbane with other members of the NSA to give the first public talks in those cities since those delivered by the Dunns two decades earlier.  On these visits radio and newspaper interviews were delivered, and prominent citizens were personally contacted and proclaimed to.  In February 1939, Hilda, together with Rose and Will Hawthorne, accompanied Martha Root during her engagements in Melbourne and Hobart.  Some of Miss Brooks’ essays appeared in Herald of the South, and Bahá’í Quarterly, while others were circulated in a limited edition of cyclo-styled sheets.  She was co-editor of the Bahá’í Quarterly from its inception in 1936, and its editor from 1944.  She also served on the editorial committee for Herald of the South, and in 1938 joined “The Bahá’í World” editorial staff.  In 1946 Hilda married Ewart Thomas.  Both became members of Burnside Assembly at its formation in 1950.

Bunn, Olive

Miss Olive Bunn became a Bahá’í in 1948 and was a member of the Perth Local Assembly re-established in January 1949 during a special visit to Perth by Bertha and Joe Dobbins.  Together with Miss Alice Deakin, with whom a house was shared, Miss Bunn sponsored fortnightly study meetings.

Carey, Patrick

The Careys moved to Australia from England and settled in Warrnambool, Victoria, in 1953.  In 1960 they moved to Grassmere.

Carpenter, Kitty

Miss Kitty Carpenter (1900–1983), from a background in Christian Science and Theosophy, became a Bahá’í in Auckland in the 1930s.  After her 1938

pilgrimage, and her visits to Bahá’ís in England, North America and Egypt, she visited the Bahá’ís around Australia to speak of the Holy Shrines in Haifa and ‘Akká.  She made three further pilgrimages—in 1953, 1974 and 1979.  During the Six-Year plan Miss Carpenter retired as manager of a “tea-shop” and moved first to Sydney, then in 1948, to South Australia.  At Riḍván she helped form Woodville Assembly, before moving to Perth, where she assisted the group achieve Assembly status at Riḍván 1949.  In the next four years she pioneered in Brisbane, Rockhampton, and New Plymouth.  During the years of the World Crusade Miss Carpenter taught extensively in New Zealand towns.  She helped Hamilton group become an Assembly in 1960.  In 1963 she moved to Auckland and attended the London Congress.  After assisting the Okahune and Raetihi communities in 1965 and Wanganui and Wellington in 1966, Miss Carpenter attended the International Teaching Conference and the dedication of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár in Panama, visiting Tonga and Western and American Samoa on her return trip.  In later years she visited other Bahá’í communities:  Papua New Guinea and Fiji in 1970 and 1971; Mauritius, Seychelles, Kenya, Iran, Nepal and Singapore while making for her final pilgrimage.

Chittleborough, James

Jim Chittleborough (1918–2007), a physiotherapist, heard of Bahá’í teachings from Harold Fitzner in Adelaide about 1941.  He married Margaret Brooks in February 1946 after his discharge from army service, which had taken him to Papua New Guinea and Borneo.  From 1946 Jim served on the National Youth Committee and the South Australian Regional Teaching Committee.  He was a regular participant at Adelaide Winter Schools.  Near the completion of the Six-Year plan (1947–53) the Chittleboroughs pioneered to Gawler.  They joined Unley community in 1949, and Jim was elected delegate to National Convention.  In 1956 the Chittleboroughs moved to the goal town of Naracoorte, and later lived for periods in Mitcham, Mt. Gambier and Enfield.

Chorvat, Peggy and Stephan

The Chorvats were members of the Wollongong Bahá’í community.  Peggy Behrendt (b 1918) became a Bahá’í in Melbourne in 1950 and in December 1951 married Stephan, who arrived from Prague, Czechoslovakia, early that year.  Also in that year, Peggy was delegate from Melbourne to the National Convention.  The following year the Chorvats settled in Wollongong, and at the end of the Six-Year plan settled in Orange, NSW.  Peggy Chorvat later became Peggy Laing.  She passed away in Port Kembla, NSW, in 2015.

Christian, Kenneth

Dr Kenneth Christian, Knight of Bahá’u’lláh to Southern Rhodesia, died in Jakarta, Indonesia, in 1959.

Clark, Leila

Miss Leila V. Clark (1897–1982), a lecturer at the South Australian School of Mines and Industry, became a Bahá’í in 1936 after meeting Silver Jackman.  She was for many years on the Adelaide Local Assembly and was one of Adelaide community’s regular public speakers.  For at least a decade from 1937 she edited Herald of the South.  She also served on the National Assembly’s History Committee.  She frequently participated in South Australia’s Winter Schools.  Miss Clark was later a member of Payneham and Burnside Assemblies.

Cover, Irene and William (Ron)

William Thomas (Ron) Cover (1889–1947), Hyde Dunn’s manager at Nestlé in South Australia, together with his wife Irene (1889–1980), were among the early Adelaide Bahá’ís.  Their son, Ron junior (d.  2008), also became a Bahá’í, and in later years lived in Melbourne.  The Covers were members of the first Adelaide Assembly, established in December 1924.  They moved to Brisbane in 1927, then to Sydney and Melbourne.

Culbert, Alice

Mrs Alice Culbert joined the Melbourne Bahá’í community in 1923, but little else is known about her.

Danielson, Edith

Knight of Bahá’u’lláh to the Cook Islands, Edith Danielson arrived 14 October 1953.  She was “assigned” to Tonga by the American Asian Teaching Committee, but when she was denied a permit, applied for the Cook Islands, Samoa, and Fiji.  Confident of obtaining one of these, she shipped all her books and effects to Suva.  She obtained permits for both the Cook Islands and Fiji.  While pioneering she contracted filariasis and required medical treatment in the United States.  In 1958 she moved to Taiwan where she devoted several years to the establishment of the Bahá’í community.  From 1967–1974 Edith made her home in New Zealand prior to her return to the United States.

Dawe, Ethel

Ethel Dawe joined the Adelaide City community in 1932.  She was an active member of the League of Nations in Australia and was one of Clara Dunn’s close friends.  In 1938, having visited England, Geneva, and Haifa, she returned with Shoghi Effendi’s gift to the Australian Bahá’ís of a lock of hair from the head of Bahá’u’lláh.  That year she joined ABC radio in Adelaide, and subsequently made some of the earliest radio broadcasts on the Bahá’í Faith in Australia.  From the early 1940s into the 1950s she was one of Adelaide’s Delegates to National Convention, and for a decade was a member of Adelaide Local Spiritual Assembly.  She was a member of the National Spiritual Assembly between 1948 and 1953.  In 1949 Miss Dawe travelled for a second

time to Europe, speaking at numerous meetings in England and attending the second European Teaching Conference in Brussels.  On her return she frequently participated in Adelaide’s winter schools and travelled on interstate teaching trips.  In 1953, the year she transferred from Adelaide to Burnside community, she chaired a post-convention “Southwest Pacific School” for pioneers departing to Crusade goals, and in October attended the New Delhi Conference and made her pilgrimage afterwards.  The Guardian’s cable may be an indication that she was due in Haifa on 5th November.  She died in the second year of the World Crusade, on 18 September 1954.

Degotardi, Meg

Meg Degotardi became a Bahá’í in Sydney in 1948.  A lawyer, she was an eloquent and intelligent speaker, frequently asked to participate at Summer Schools, firesides, and public platforms—from the League of Women Voters, to the Penguin Club, and the Women’s League of Health.  Tragically, she died in 1963, six years after her marriage to David Podger.

Dewing, Amy

Amy Dewing was born to an English couple living in South Africa who learnt about the Bahá’í Teachings from Clara and Hyde Dunn during their 1922–1923 visit to Auckland.  In 1926 Mrs Dewing was elected to the first Auckland Local Spiritual Assembly and in 1931 made her pilgrimage to the Holy Land.  She passed away in 1959.

Dewing, Edward Bertram Maurice

Edward Bertram Maurice Dewing (1902–1972) became a Bahá’í after meeting the Dunns in Auckland in 1923.  He had been involved in “Rationalism” and New Thought.  In 1925 he founded the magazine Herald of the South.  In 1958 he was elected to the New Zealand National Assembly, and in the same year pioneered to Northland.  He passed away in New Plymouth in 1972.

Dive, Dulcie

Knight of Bahá’u’lláh to the Cook Islands Dulcie Burns Dive (c. 1910–1962), of Maori and Pakeha (European) ancestry, became a Bahá’í in April 1938.  She was actively involved in the New Zealand Bahá’í community and served on the National Spiritual Assembly 1944–1948 and 1951–1953, in some years as secretary or treasurer.  She served on the Bahá’í Quarterly Committee from 1943, and on the National Teaching Committee and Yerrinbool School Committee from 1948.  She was involved in the first proclamations to members of Australia’s national and state parliaments (1940–1941), and was an active speaker at both public meetings and summer schools:  she had attended Yerrinbool school in January 1939, prior to convening New Zealand’s first Summer Schools at Browns Bay (from 1940), and also attended Winter Schools in Adelaide.  She

married Jeff Dive in 1943.  When Dulcie was elected secretary of the National Assembly in 1944, the couple moved to Sydney.  Dulcie attended the New Delhi conference in October 1953, determined to pioneer in the Pacific.  She resigned from the National Spiritual Assembly and arrived at Rarotonga in the Cook Islands on 18 January 1954.  In 1959 she was elected to the first Regional Spiritual Assembly of the South Pacific, serving until 1962.  Regretfully, her health began to decline, and she passed away in September.  The Hands of the Cause in the Holy Land cabled:

REGRET PASSING KNIGHT OF BAHAULLAH DULCIE DIVE LONGSTANDING SERVICES AUSTRALASIAN FIELD UNFORGETTABLE CONVEY LOVING SYMPATHY RELATIVES

Dobbins, Bertha

Bertha Mochan (1897–1986) and Joe Dobbins became Bahá’ís in Adelaide in 1927 and married 17 January 1933.  Bertha, a schoolteacher, served on the Adelaide Assembly from 1929 into the 1930s.  From 1930 she edited Herald of the South.  She served on the National Spiritual Assembly 1948–1949.  For many years, the Dobbins lived at 112 First St., Joslin.  They assisted in the formation of the Woodville and Port Adelaide Local Assemblies through constant teaching activities in these areas, and later settled in Payneham.  Bertha pioneered to the New Hebrides (now Vanuatu) in October 1953 and was named by Shoghi Effendi a Knight of Bahá’u’lláh.  She supported herself in Port Vila by establishing a primary school (“Nur School”) and returned to Adelaide only after witnessing the formation of the National Spiritual Assembly of Vanuatu in 1980.

Dobbins, Joe

Joe Dobbins (1891–1969) served on Adelaide LSA, and was one of the Assembly’s first secretaries.  He married Bertha Mochan in January 1933.  In the 1930s he served on the Herald of the South Committee, and in some years was elected delegate to National Convention.  In the 1940s he served on South Australia’s Regional Teaching Committee.  When Bertha pioneered to the New Hebrides (now Vanuatu) at the beginning of the World Crusade he supported her from Adelaide, and cared for their two children.

Dugdale, Dorothy

Dorothy Dugdale (1885–1975), a schoolteacher, was introduced to the Faith by Bertha Dobbins, and became a Bahá’í in October 1927.  She lived at Brighton and was elected to the Adelaide Local Assembly from 1929 into the 1930s.  For many years she assisted the production of Herald of the South.  In later years she lived in the Brighton, Clare, Burnside, and Noarlunga communities.

Dunn, Clara and Hyde

Clara (1869–1960) and Hyde Dunn (1856–1941) were among the few Bahá’ís who left their homes to pioneer in response to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablets of the Divine Plan.  They arrived in Sydney on 10 April 1920, and their subsequent efforts across several decades were rewarded first by the establishment of Local Spiritual Assemblies, and in 1934, the National Spiritual Assembly of Australia and New Zealand.  Both were named Hands of the Cause of God by Shoghi Effendi, Hyde posthumously.

Dunning, Marie

Miss Marie Dunning became a Bahá’í in 1946, while teaching at a school in the country town of Qurindi, NSW.  She moved to Wollongong in 1951, and later to Ku-ring-gai in Sydney, where she served on the Regional Teaching Committee.  Miss Dunning undertook teaching trips to several Pacific Islands, as well as within Australia.  In 1953 she visited Indonesia and Singapore on her way to the New Delhi conference.  In later years she occupied herself with ceramics and children’s classes.

Estall, Roland

At Riḍván 1954 Mr Roland Estall was appointed a member of the first Auxiliary Board in America.

Featherstone, Collis

Hand of the Cause H. Collis Featherstone (1913–1990), and his wife Madge, became Bahá’ís in Adelaide in December 1944.  In Woodville, they assisted in establishing the first Local Assembly to be established beyond the boundaries of the metropolitan cities in Australia.  Mr Featherstone subsequently served on the National Assembly 1949–1962 and was an Auxiliary Board member 1954–1957.  During the World Crusade he was secretary of the Asian Teaching Committee.  In October 1957 Shoghi Effendi appointed Mr Featherstone as one of the Hands of the Cause.  His responsibilities continued at first to focus on Australasia.  Later he travelled constantly, visiting Bahá’í communities on every continent.

Featherstone, Madge

Madge Lillian Featherstone (1911–2009) accepted the Bahá’í teachings at the same time as her husband Collis, in December 1944.  She helped establish the Woodville and Port Adelaide Assemblies, and served on South Australia’s Regional Teaching Committee.  During the World Crusade she was a member of the Asian Teaching Committee, and in 1961 was elected to the National Spiritual Assembly.  From 1961 to 1968 Madge was secretary of the Continental Pioneer Committee before becoming secretary to her husband.  In 1977 the

Featherstones moved to Rockhampton in Queensland, where Madge served on the Local Spiritual Assembly from its formation in 1982.

Fernie, Elena and Roy

Elena and Roy were Knights of Bahá’u’lláh to the Gilbert and Ellice Islands Colony.  With the announcement of the Crusade goals, Elena and Roy Fernie resolved to pioneer in the Gilbert and Ellice Islands (now the independent states Kiribati and Tuvalu).  They arrived in March 1954 and settled at Abaiang.

Fitzner, Florence and Harold

Knights of Bahá’u’lláh to Portuguese Timor Florence (d. 1980) and Harold Fitzner (d. 1969) first met Hyde and Clara Dunn in Adelaide in 1927.  Harold, then chief clerk at North British Insurance Company, was elected to Adelaide Assembly from 1930 to 1950.  The couple married on 14 May, 1931.  That year they helped plan Mrs Keith Ransom-Kehler’s visit to Adelaide.  Both served on the Herald of the South Committee; for many years Harold was responsible for the magazine’s production and dispatch.  Florence served on the Local Spiritual Assembly from 1929 into the late 1930s.  She assisted, in addition, with its children’s classes and its community program of visiting the sick and the elderly.  Frequently Florence and Harold drove to small country towns—such as Port Pirie, Kingston, Kapunda and Nuriootpa—on weekends, to make friends wherever possible, or to find a venue at which to give a public meeting.  Harold served on the National Spiritual Assembly 1943–1945 and 1947–1948.  With the announcement of the goals of the World Crusade the Fitzners resolved to move to Portuguese Timor.  The acquisition of visas after persistent effort was remarkable, since only Portuguese citizens were eligible.  Harold arrived in Dili in June 1954, and Florence followed in October.  Several Local Assemblies were formed before Harold’s death in 1968.  Florence remained until 1975, when Indonesian annexation of the former colony, at a time when she was visiting Adelaide, prevented her return.

French, Nellie

Mrs Nellie French, of Pasadena, California, was for many years involved in production of “The Bahá’í World”.  At the commencement of the World Crusade she became Knight of Bahá’u’lláh to Monaco.

Harnish, Beryl

Beryl Harnish (Beryl van der Vaart, later Beryl Carden) heard of the Bahá’í teachings from Alvin Blum in the 1940s and was the second youth to become a Bahá’í in New Zealand.  She lived in Melbourne in the late 1940s before returning to New Zealand, where she was elected to the first National Spiritual Assembly.  For several years from 1970 she pioneered in American Samoa.  Mrs

Carden contributed significantly to the planning of the Auckland International conference, held in January 1977.  She died in October 1978.

Harnish, Margaret

Margaret Harnish became a Bahá’í in February 1944, having met Alvin Blum.  She was for many years a member of Auckland Assembly, and was elected to the New Zealand National Assembly 1957–1961.  In 1962 Mrs Harnish pioneered to assist the Hamilton community, and in later years lived for periods in New Plymouth and Auckland.  She passed away in the Cook Islands in May 1980, while visiting her son and daughter at their pioneer post.

Haumont, Daniel

Knight of Bahá’u’lláh to the Loyalty Islands.  Daniel Haumont became a Bahá’í in the Society Islands early 1955, and travelled to the Loyalty Islands, in New Caledonia, in October 1955.  He returned to Tahiti in December 1955 and married there in July 1959.  He subsequently resided in France.

Hawthorne, Rose

Rose Hawthorne (1882–1988), raised in a large South Australian rural family, became a Bahá’í in Adelaide after attending a lecture by Keith Ransom-Kehler in September 1931.  Rose accompanied her sister of Hilda Brooks on numerous teaching trips in the 1930s and 1940s.  She was a member of the Unley Local Spiritual Assembly when it incorporated in 1962.

Hearn, Rupert

Rupert Hearne (d. 1942), a chemist in Bathurst, NSW, was among Hyde Dunn’s friends and business acquaintances.

Heggie, James

A member of the National Spiritual Assembly periodically from 1947 to 1968, James Heggie was born in Scotland, and later moved to Canada.  He moved to Australia in 1935 and heard of the Bahá’í Faith in October 1937 from Oswald Whitaker.  After studying chiropractic in North America from 1939, Jim enlisted in the Australian Army’s Medical Corp.  at the outbreak of war, hoping to be posted in the Middle East so that he could visit Shoghi Effendi and the Holy Land.  This he did in December 1941.  In 1947 Jim married Merle Brooks of Adelaide.  That year, also, he was elected to the National Assembly and became secretary.  In 1948 the Heggies moved to Brisbane to work toward the formation of the first Assembly there.  They subsequently helped to established Hunters Hill Local Assembly in Sydney.  Jim was a student of Islám, producing as early as 1946 a “study index” to the Qur’án.  He later produced other concordances and indexes.  He learnt Braille and produced Bahá’í books for the blind.  He was secretary of the National Assembly from the early years of

the Ten Year Crusade, and during the period in which the Sydney Mashriqu’l-Adhkár was planned and constructed.  For a decade and more he printed the programs for Sunday services.  He died in 1992.

Hoenhke, Violet

Knight of Bahá’u’lláh to the Admiralty Islands.  Hoehnke (1916–2004) was introduced to the Bahá’í Faith by Jim Heggie.  She regularly attended meetings held at the home of Clara and Hyde Dunn and was soon active on the National Youth Committee.  In 1948 Vi moved to Melbourne to assist in re-establishing the city’s Local Assembly.  Later she pioneered to Ballarat.  At the beginning of the World Crusade, Vi attended the New Delhi Conference and decided to move to a French-speaking Pacific Island.  Unable to enter the Loyalty Islands or the New Hebrides, she obtained a position as a nursing sister in the Australian territory of Papua New Guinea.  She arrived in Port Moresby on 12 April 45, and arrived at Manus, Admiralty Islands, 6 July 1955.  In 1964 Vi was appointed an Auxiliary Board member and between 1973 and 1979 served as a member of the Continental Board of Counsellors for Australasia.

Inman, Guy

Guy Inman was a member of Sydney community by 1934.  He taught actively with Hyde Dunn, contributed articles to Herald of the South, and served on the Sydney Assembly and the National Spiritual Assembly.

Jackman, Silver

Silver Jackman (1883–1968) heard of the Bahá’í Faith when Clara and Hyde Dunn stayed at her boarding house in Blackwood, Adelaide, about 1929.  She was first elected to Adelaide Local Assembly in 1932 and was one of Adelaide’s delegates to National Convention from 1934 into the 1940s.  In 1934 she was elected to the first National Assembly, on which she served until 1947.  She was the Assembly’s first treasurer.  In the early 1940s Mrs Jackman travelled to such outlying centres as Broken Hill to give public meetings.  In 1949 she became a founding member of St. Peters Local Assembly.

Jankko, Greta

Knight of Bahá’u’lláh to the Marquesas Islands, French Polynesia.  Finnish-born Canadian resident Gretta Jankko (1902–1973) arrived at Hiva Oa on 5 March 1954 bearing an 8-month visitor’s visa obtained in Tahiti.  While in the islands she was able to mention the Bahá’í Faith as opportunity arose but was advised to leave following a brutal attack which nearly took her life.  She departed in December 1954, arriving in Finland in February 1955.

Juleff, Mary

Mrs Mary Juleff (d. 1931), a prominent social worker and activist, was a member of the Perth Bahá’í Community in the mid-1920s, at times Vice President and Secretary of the Perth Assembly.

Kaltoli, Peter

First Ni-Vanuatu Bahá’í, Peter Kaltoli met Bertha Dobbins in Vila and became a Bahá’í in 1955.  His wife also became a Bahá’í, and several of their children attended Nur School, established and operated by Bertha Dobbins.

Kanare, Peter

First Gilbertese Bahá’í, Peter Kanare (1920–1992), from Tanaeang, North Tabiteuea, studied at the Catholic seminary at Buota, Abaiang 1933–1938, and became a teacher.  In 1954 he met Knights of Bahá’u’lláh Roy and Elena Fernie and became a Bahá’í.

Khan, Zainab

Mrs Zainab Khan, a schoolteacher, became a Bahá’í during Gertrude Blum’s visit to Suva late in 1951.  Her husband Walli Khan accepted the Faith the following year.  The Khans travelled to the 4th Intercontinental Conference in New Delhi in 1953 and returned in the company of Hand of the Cause Mr Furutan and Mr Faizi, as well as some other Australian Bahá’ís.  In the 1960s Mrs Khan moved to San Francisco with her daughters.

Lamprill, Gretta

A trained nurse, Miss Gretta Lamprill (1890–1972) was involved in New Thought when she met Clara and Hyde Dunn in Hobart in 1924.  For many years the only Tasmanian Bahá’í, she served on the National Spiritual Assembly 1942–1953, and Tasmania’s Regional Teaching Committee 1948–1953.  At the commencement of the Ten-Year Crusade she pioneered with Gladys Parke to the Society Islands (now French Polynesia), arriving on 29 October 1953.  Both were named Knight of Bahá’u’lláh.  Only permitted three-month tourist visas, Gretta and Glad returned to Tahiti on several occasions before resettling in Hobart.  In March 1962 they moved to Devonport, and after a period spent at the Temple cottage in Sydney returned to Hobart to help maintain the Local Assembly.  In September 1963 they transferred to Launceston.

Leadley, Percy

Percy Leadley was born in Kyabrum, Victoria, in 1919.  A seaman who had studied Buddhism, he became a Bahá’í in Auckland in 1942.  Percy and Edith Carpenter returned to Victoria near the end of the Six Year Plan (1953) and lived in Echuca for six months.  Returning to New Zealand, they moved to help establish Wellington Assembly in 1956, and Percy was elected to the New

Zealand National Assembly the following year.  He served on the National body for ten years, including two as Chairman.  Percy produced the New Zealand community’s first newsletter, from 1951, and for many years published a children’s magazine as well as the small magazine Viewpoint.  Following the death of his wife in 1986 Mr Leadley retired to Australia.

Lee, Nora

Miss Nora Lee became a Bahá’í having met the Dunns in New Zealand.  She was private secretary to Lady Salisbury in South Africa before arriving in New Zealand in 1921.  In 1924 she moved to Labasa, Fiji, to work as a nanny, and although she subsequently maintained contact with the Australian and New Zealand Bahá’ís little else is known about her.

Marques, Jose

Knight of Bahá’u’lláh to Portuguese Timor, Jose Marques arrived in Dili from Portugal on 28 July 1954.  Unable at first to obtain a job, Marques appealed to the Australian National Spiritual Assembly for assistance.  The presence of a continental Portuguese in Dili, having no employment, but receiving regular payment from Australia, drew the suspicion of Timorese authorities on both Marques and Fitzner, and both were threatened with immediate eviction.  When Marques cabled the Bahá’í World Centre for advice authorities intercepted his message, searched his accommodation, seized his Bahá’í books, and interviewed Harold Fitzner for four hours.  Providentially, the Catholic Bishop of Timor intervened, and both were permitted to stay.  In June 1957 Marques married Miss Menezer, and in 1958 moved to Turascai, about 100 miles from Dili.  In the 1960s the Marques family moved to South Australia.

Maxwell, James

The son of Rose Maxwell, James Maxwell became a Bahá’í as a youth in Auckland and in 1946 had moved to Adelaide.

McMiles, Ellen

Mrs Ellen McMiles Dekker (née Muller) became a Bahá’í in 1944.  Her mother Gertrude Muller, and sister Greta Lake, also became Bahá’ís.  From the 1940s Nell was a member of the Caringbah (now Sutherland) community in Sydney.  She was among the Sydney Bahá’ís who shared responsibility for the erection and subsequent maintenance of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár at Mona Vale.  In the 1960s she accompanied the Australasian Counsellors to several major conferences in the Pacific Islands.  She passed away in Sutherland in 2000.

Miller, Anne and William

Annie (1877–1957) and William (1875–1939) Miller were among the first Perth Bahá’ís.  Both served on the Perth Local Assembly, and in the 1940s

Mrs Miller was elected delegate to National Convention—although the cost of travelling from west to east prevented her from attending.  Mr Miller died on 23 October 1939.  When Bertha Dobbins met with the Perth Bahá’ís in January 1949 to revitalize what had become a dormant community Mrs Miller was in attendance.

Millway, Margaret Jean

Jean Millway became a Bahá’í in Queensland in 1950.  She served on the Ten Year Crusade Language Committee, and was a member of the National Aborigine Committee from 1956.

Moffitt, Charlotte

Charlotte Moffitt (1867–1950) became a Bahá’í in Adelaide in 1923, and was correspondence secretary of the first Adelaide Assembly, established in December.  She lived for periods in England between 1925 and 1936.  Martha Root stayed with her in London for a month in 1925.  Mrs Moffitt was a member of the first National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Australia and New Zealand and served on the national body until 1944.  She was also a member of the Sydney Local Assembly from 1932 until 1935.  In the 1940s she travelled to Hobart, Melbourne, and Brisbane together with Hilda Brooks and Jane Routh, and moved to Melbourne in November 1945 to assist with teaching in the Victorian capital, returning to Sydney two years later.  She died on 21 November 1950.

Motteram, Walter

Walter Motteram (1886–1967) became a Bahá’í in Adelaide in 1942.  He was involved in production of the Bahá’í Quarterly and Herald of the South and served on South Australia’s Regional Teaching Committee.  In 1945 and 1946 he was elected to the National Assembly.  When the Bahá’ís of Adelaide city formed Assemblies at municipal level he became part of the Unley community.  He was on Unley Assembly when it was incorporated in 1962.

Muller, Gertrude

Mrs Gertrude Muller (1880–1974) arrived in Australia from Germany in 1884.  She became a Bahá’í in Caringbah in 1944 and served on the first Caringbah (later Sutherland) Local Assembly from its formation in 1945.  Mrs Muller’s daughters Nell and Greta also became Bahá’ís.

Norden, Else

New Zealand Bahá’í Mrs Else Norden arrived in Suva, Fiji, in June 1952, to work at the Colonial War Memorial Hospital for one year.  Her determination to teach people regardless of their race challenged the Bahá’í community,

which was not accustomed to easy communication across cultures at that time.  She was a member of Suva Local Spiritual Assembly in 1953.

Nur, Violet and Ali

Nur Ali (1912–1962) and his wife Violet, of Fiji-Indian Muslim background, who became Bahá’ís in Suva on 23 October 1950, were among the first Fijian Bahá’ís.  Nur was Local Assembly secretary, and the Ali home became the centre of Bahá’í activities in Suva in the 1950s.  He worked for the Fijian public service from February 1956, serving as a clerk at the Magistrates courts in Suva, Ba and Nausori, and in the Supreme Court Registry.  He also served in the Health department.  After his death in January 1962 Violet Ali moved to Sydney.

Olson, Cynthia

Cynthia Olson was Knight of Bahá’u’lláh for the Mariana Islands.  She arrived on 2 May 1954, her husband Edgar following later.  In 1972 she was elected to the first National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the North West Pacific, and in 1978, of the first National Spiritual Assembly of the Mariana Islands.  She passed away in 1988.

Peak, Olga

Mrs Peak became a Bahá’í in Sydney in 1944.  She was a member of the first Kogarah group, established in 1950.  Mrs Peak moved to Wyong, NSW and in 1989 re-established contact with the Bahá’í community.

Perdu, Joseph

Joseph Perdu traveled in Australia and Fiji during 1948–1950.

Perks, Thelma

Thelma Perks (1901–1988) served on the first Continental Board of Counsellors for Australasia.  As a young woman she travelled extensively in Europe and North America, and after meeting the Dunns in the 1930s devoted all her time and energy to the propagation and administration of the Bahá’í Faith (although she did not officially become a Bahá’í until 1947).  In the Six Year Plan (1947–1953) Thelma accompanied Clara Dunn on her visits to Bahá’ís in several Australian states, and also travelled widely on her own to teach in the small country towns that were then the focus of attention.  She was elected to the National Assembly in January 1954 in a by-election to replace five members who had pioneered; and was later that year appointed an Auxiliary Board member.  From 1955 Thelma visited the Bahá’ís in New Zealand and the Pacific Islands as well as Australia.  She was a member of the Continental Board of Counsellors for Australasia 1968–1980.

Pollard, Gladys

A Sydney Bahá’í, Miss Gladys Pollard was secretary of the Summer School Committee in the 1940s.  In 1949 she was elected to the Sydney Local Assembly.  She pioneered in Honiara, Solomon Islands, briefly in 1959, before returning to settle in the Sydney suburb of Rockdale.

Powers, Robert Jr.

Knight of Bahá’u’lláh to Mariana Islands, Robert Powers Jr. arrived in May 1953, temporarily attached to the US Air Force on Guam.

Ransom-Kehler, Keith

Mrs Keith Ransom-Kehler was a New York Bahá’í who travelled widely and was a most effective public speaker.  She visited New Zealand and Australia 1931–1932.  She died in Iran in 1933 while on assignment for Shoghi Effendi.

Rodwell, Viva and Jeff

Viva Rodwell and her husband Jeff (d. 1993) became Bahá’ís in Yeronga, Queensland, in 1950.  For many years Viva promoted Aboriginal welfare activities.  In 1956 she was appointed to the first Aboriginal Teaching Committee.  Jeff Rodwell served on numerous committees during the Ten Year Crusade—including those concerned with Public Relations, Translations, and the Intercontinental Conference held in Sydney in 1958.  He was a member of the National Spiritual Assembly 1959–1967.  During retirement in Sydney, Viva continued her involvement in the Women’s Movement, and in peace activities, until she passed away in 2018.

Routh, Jane

English-born Jane Routh heard of the Bahá’í Faith when sailing from New York to London.  She was a member Sydney’s Local Assembly in the 1930s, between trips to England and Europe.  Shortly before World War Two she travelled to North America, and in 1948, once more visited England.  These travels equipped her for numerous public speaking engagements in Australia, at which she was able to impart the Bahá’í message of global peace from first-hand experience.  In later years Mrs Routh continued to correspond with friends in the British Bahá’í community.  She died in September 1959.

Schiller, Rolf

In the early 1950s Mr Schiller participated in Brisbane’s Bahá’í youth activities.  He later taught at a school in Duchess in mid-west Queensland.

Schopflocher, Florence

Florence (Lorel) Schopflocher (1886–1970) married Siegfried Schopflocher in 1918.  She travelled the world nine times, visiting remote Bahá’í communities.

Her travel to the interior of Iran was “not duplicated by any other western woman” (“Bahá’í World”, Vol. II, p. 37).

Schopflocher, Siegfried

Siegfried Schopflocher (1877–1953) was for many years a member of the NSA of the United States and Canada, and later appointed Hand of the Cause.  Shoghi Effendi named him “Chief Temple builder” for his role in the construction of the Wilmette Mashriqu’l-Adhkár.

Sevin, Jean

Knight of Bahá’u’lláh to the Tuamotu Archipelago.  Mr Jean Sevin was the only French Bahá’í to pioneer in the Pacific during the Ten Year Crusade.  He entered the Tuamotu Archipelago in January 1954, but was not able to stay more than a few years.  Subsequently, he moved between the French-speaking Pacific territories at the request of the institutions, adopting whatever manner of work that was available.  He spent periods in the New Hebrides, French Polynesia, the Tuamotu Archipelago and New Caledonia.  In 1968, at the request of the Universal House of Justice, Jean moved to New Caledonia, settling in Noumea.

Soheili, Shapoor

Shapoor Sohaili, from Poona, India, arrived in New Caledonia in May 1955 and his wife Monireh several months later.  The Sohailis subsequently moved to Sydney, then to Chicago.

Stevenson, Margaret

Margaret Stevenson (1865–1941) heard of the Bahá’í Faith from her sister, who was studying in London at the time of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit.  She met the Dunns when they visited Auckland in December 1922 and hosted the first Bahá’í Feast in New Zealand the following January.  In 1925 Miss Stevenson travelled in the first group of pilgrims from this region to the Holy Land.  She was secretary of the Auckland Spiritual Assembly from 1926.  In 1934 she was elected to the National Spiritual Assembly of Australia and New Zealand, and remained a member until her passing, in February 1941.

Styles, Albert

Albert Styles was introduced to the Bahá’í Faith by Stanley and Mariette Bolton.  He declared in Sydney in 1945, before moving to Yerrinbool two years later.  In 1961 he became the first caretaker at the Sydney Mashriqu’l-Adhkár but died the following year.

Thornton, Amy

Mrs Amy Thornton was a member of the Melbourne community from 1923.  She lived in South Yarra, and in 1925 was elected to the Melbourne Assembly.

As corresponding secretary, she wrote “unity letters” to Bahá’í communities in other countries.  She also contributed articles to the Herald of the South.  By February 1933 she had lost contact with the Melbourne Bahá’ís.

Uskúlí , H. A.

Mírzá H. A. Uskúlí, took the Bahá’í Teachings to China during the lifetime of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  He died in Shanghai in February 1956.

Walker, Noel

Noel Walker, a bank officer, became a Bahá’í in 1942 having met the Boltons in Orange.  He was a member of the National Spiritual Assembly 1944–1947 and again 1954–1961.  Noel and Bessie later acted as caretakers at the Sydney Mashriqu’l-Adhkár.  He died in November 1983.

Washington, Bill

Bill Washington (1932–2014) became a Bahá’í in Leeton, NSW, in 1954, having met Noel Bluett.  In June 1955 he pioneered to New Caledonia, but was unable to secure a permit to remain, returned to Australia late in 1956.  He subsequently moved to Darwin in the Northern Territory, where a Local Assembly was formed in 1962.  At the end of 1964 Bill was appointed Auxiliary Board member for Northern Australia.  In 1972 Bill and his wife Hiroko moved to Japan, where they remained five years, before settling in Hobart, Tasmania, in 1979.

Whitaker, Oswald

Oswald Whitaker was the first Australian Bahá’í.  An optometrist, Mr Whitaker met Hyde Dunn in Lismore in Northern NSW late in 1922.  Upon becoming a Bahá’í, he assisted in establishing the Sydney Local Assembly (of which he was chairman 1924–1938) and he served on the National Spiritual Assembly 1934–1942.  He died on 3 July, 1942.

Watkin, Evelyn

Mrs Evelyn Watkin was a member of the Auckland community from about 1925.  She was a member of Auckland’s first elected Assembly (1926), and an Esperantist.

Wyss, Frank

Knight of Bahá’u’lláh to Cocos Islands.  Frank Wyss (1927–2007) heard of the Faith from fellow students Antoinette, Mariette, and Stanley Bolton, at Bowral High School.  He and sister Lilian became Bahá’ís at Yerrinbool Summer School in January 1944.  He arrived on Cocos Island on 4 June 1955 holding a three-month permit.  However, this was a privately owned island and the owner requested him to leave approximately three weeks later.  Returning to Australia,

Frank served on the National Spiritual Assembly 1954–1957 before pioneering to Papua New Guinea.  He moved to Canberra at the end of 1970.  In 1973 he was appointed Auxiliary Board member for Propagation in Queensland, New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory.  He passed away in Canberra in 2007.

Yaganegi, Ruhi

Miss Ruhi Yaganegi, from Poona, India, arrived in the Solomon Islands in 1956 were she met and married John Mills.  The Mills subsequently pioneered to Rabaul, Papua New Guinea.

Index

A

‘Abdu’l-Bahá, 34, 66, 67, 79, 83, 87, 91, 94, 96–97, 118, 119, 122, 137, 188–190, 192, 193, 195, 197, 199–200, 203, 206, 209, 211, 213, 231, 241, 256, 265, 398, 442, 478, 487, 488

had intuitive knowledge, 67

station of, 190, 195

Will and Testament, 59, 190, 202, 257, 411

‘Abu’l-Faḍl, Mirza, 42

Aboriginal Australians, 118, 126, 133, 389, 428

Abraham, 38, 300

Adam, 38

Adelaide, 1, 4, 16, 18, 20, 22, 27, 44, 48, 54, 58, 60, 63, 84, 91, 167, 206, 208, 215, 225, 241, 243, 248, 252, 254, 257, 261, 263, 264, 267, 269, 271–272, 290, 305, 309, 311, 316, 317, 325–326, 333, 338, 340–342, 357, 362–363, 366–367, 372, 376–377, 430, 467–469, 472–481, 483–484

Adelaide Local Spiritual Assembly, 16, 17, 18, 54, 215, 241, 264, 467, 475, 477, 484

Admiralty Islands, 109, 144, 481

Advent of Divine Justice, 301

adversity, 152, 191

lays foundations for Faith, 41

Africa, 88, 130, 150, 289, 381, 468, 476, 483

Ala’i, Lilian, 113, 468

alcohol—Bahá’í teachings on, 454

Ali, Nur, 429, 485

Alláh-u-Abhá, 235

Almond, Maysie, 214, 224, 259, 305, 384, 397, 430, 467

Almond, Perce, 259, 453

Anderson, Betty, 389

Appleton, Dorothy and Matthew, 326, 333, 338, 468

Ararat, 208

Archibald, Ethna, 420, 468

Aristotle, 66

Assemblies

boundaries of, 72, 85

duty of members to foster harmony, 58

functions of, 80, 81, 98

growth of, 45, 47, 53, 55–57, 64, 66, 76

Assemblies (continued)

Guardian has jurisdiction over, 59

incorporation of, 70, 77, 82

to be flexible in decision-making, 78, 81

atomic bombs, 341

Auckland, 11–12, 15–17, 20, 24, 85, 116, 120, 122, 124, 127, 135, 147, 163, 188, 201, 206, 212, 219, 221–222, 224, 227, 230, 232, 251, 275–277, 279, 282–283, 289–299, 310, 331, 353, 361, 370, 461, 468, 469, 471, 473–474, 476, 480, 482–483, 487–488

Auckland Local Spiritual Assembly, 15, 17

Audenwood, Mr, 96

Australia and New Zealand National Spiritual Assembly, 171, 179, 257

confidentiality of correspondence, 6

Declaration of Trust, 4, 15, 22

Six-Year Plan, 65, 70, 72–73, 82, 92, 96, 103, 106, 	110, 112, 357, 482, 485

Bahá’í Quarterly established, 16

Auxiliary Boards, 412

Axford, Mrs Emily, 7, 11, 85, 168, 262, 282, 289, 292, 298, 310, 364, 468, 469

B

Bahá’í Administration, 5, 17, 30, 48, 56, 62, 68, 71, 	73, 75, 78, 82–83, 87, 98, 103, 119, 152, 263, 	290, 456

progress in Australia and New Zealand, 4

Bahá’í archives, 39, 85, 313, 378

Bahá’í attitude to war, 32

Bahá’í burial, 34

Bahá’í children, 321, 469

Bahá’í conferences

Chicago, 107, 403

New Delhi, 102, 109–110, 117, 393–394, 396, 398, 	400, 405, 481

Bahá’í Holy Days, 81, 93–94, 148, 363, 456

Ascension of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, 91, 94, 119, 302

Day of the Covenant, 91

Bahá’í literature, 98, 120, 127, 132, 137, 193, 196, 441

Bahá’í marriage, 148, 155, 456–457

Bahá’í News Bulletin, 84, 90

Bahá’í Publications, Standard of, 267

Bahá’í Quarterly, 34, 44, 315, 469, 471,

Bahá’í Quarterly (continued), 473, 476, 484

Bahá’í ring, 213, 341

Bahá’í sacred Writings—definition of, 74

Bahá’í Summer School, 39, 42, 46, 54, 60, 117, 288, 302

Bahá’í youth, 109

Bahá’í World Centre, 95, 102, 107, 120, 122, 134, 146, 150, 154, 209, 221, 378, 380, 415, 426, 453, 468, 469, 483

Bahádur, ‘Azízu’lláh, 211

Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, 246

Baker, Effie, 8–9, 161, 205–207, 210, 212, 218–219, 227, 231–232, 234–335, 378, 391, 469, 471

baptism—Bahá’í approach to, 292

Bean, Jack, 366, 469

Beaumont, Alice, 469

Bedikian, Victoria, 13, 219, 469

Bible, 38

Bismarck Archipelago, 142

Blakely, Dudley and Judy (Elsa), 419, 470

Blakely, Elsa (Judy), 443, 470

Blomfield, Lady, 341

Bluett, Margaret, 388

Bluett, Noel, 383, 388, 470, 488

Blum, Alvin, 125, 328, 329, 343, 397, 414, 416, 420, 470, 479

Blum, Alvin and Gertrude, 345, 347–348, 352, 354, 401, 404, 427

Blum, Gertrude, 392

Blundell, Ethel, 207, 212, 275–276, 279, 471

Blundell, Hugh, 207, 471

Blundell, Rev. Oscar, 220

Blundell, Sarah, 207, 210–212, 220, 222, 226, 471

Passing of, 275

Bolton Family, 172

Bolton, Antoinette, 473

Bolton, Mariette, 101, 251, 255, 268, 278, 283–284, 287, 300, 303, 308–309, 321, 324, 327, 330, 332, 335–336, 338, 343, 348, 375, 388, 422, 433, 439, 446, 449

Bolton, Mariette E, 472

Bolton, Stanley P., 112, 346, 380, 409, 419, 472

Bolton, Stanley P. and Judy, 423

Bolton, Stanley W., 17, 27, 42, 48, 84, 250–251, 255, 261, 288, 301, 304–305, 325, 327, 330, 400, 407, 432, 471–472

Bolton, Stanley W. and Mariette, 27, 60, 258, 277, 302–304, 310, 314, 317, 323, 346, 347, 413, 471, 488

Bombay, 247, 295 Book of Enoch, 441

Bosch, Louise, 117, 472

Bowes, Eric, 422, 448, 472

Bowes, Eric and Marjorie, 425, 472

Breaks, Virginia, 444, 455, 457, 459, 472

Brewer, Ernest, 225, 264, 473

Bridgland, Reginald, 306

Brilliant Proof, 76

Brisbane, 35, 37, 40, 70, 208, 356, 377, 428, 452, 473, 474, 475, 480, 484, 486

British Isles, 87, 364

British Somaliland, 424

Brogan, John, 135, 139, 140, 141, 142, 143, 150

Brooks, Hilda, 1, 9, 12–18, 20–21, 24–26, 28, 31–32, 34, 37, 48–49, 53, 169, 259, 290, 473

Buddha, 38

Bunn, Olive, 353, 473

Burma, 74, 132, 140, 242, 244, 294, 296, 405

Burnside, 442

C

Canada, 85, 96, 125, 154, 197, 248, 302, 303, 304, 343, 396, 480, 487

capital punishment, 136

Carey, Margaret and Patrick, 395

Carey, Patrick, 473

Caringbah, 55, 322, 334, 335, 337–338, 385, 409, 471, 483–484

Caroline Islands, 444, 455, 457, 459, 473

Carpenter, Kitty, 10, 20, 291, 328, 352, 360, 393, 399, 425, 436, 473

Central and South America, 295

Challis, Grace, 210, 214

China, 96, 488

chiropractic, 261, 302, 374, 471, 480

Chittleborough, James, 430, 431, 434, 440, 474

Chorvat, Peggy, 105

Chorvat, Peggy and Stephan, 453, 474

Christ, 38, 201, 209, 352

Christian, Kenneth, 124, 132, 474

Clark, Leila, 369, 376, 408, 419, 475

Cocos Islands, 114, 123, 144, 401, 413, 427, 488

Collins, Amelia, 123, 124

coming world crisis, 17

Confucius, 38

consultation, 64, 68, 192, 193, 194, 207, 244, 248, 266, 412

Cook Islands, 113, 460, 475, 476, 477

Cover, Irene and Ron, 208

Culbert, Alice, 200, 476

Czechoslovakia, 453

D

Danielson, Edith, 426

Davis, Allan, 151

Davis, Miss, 25

Davis, Mrs, E. E., 296

Dawe, Ethel, 20–22, 112–113, 121, 259, 293, 306, 312–313, 315, 318, 323, 328, 344, 350, 355, 360, 367, 372, 399, 404, 415, 475

Dawe, Vernon, 313

Deakin, Alice, 353

Declaration of the Báb

1944 Centenary Celebrations, 50, 51

Degotardi, Margaret, 374, 395, 476

delegates, 15, 18, 64, 69, 77, 86, 114, 134, 142, 193, 194, 269, 273, 343, 349, 455, 468, 481

depression, 249

Dewing, Amy, 227, 229, 239, 242, 477

Dewing, Bertram, 199, 212, 217, 225, 237, 243, 246, 	248, 268, 272, 273, 349, 361, 370, 422

in Haifa, 237

dispute settlement, 61, 72

Dive, Dulcie, 113, 476

Dive, Jeff, 77

divinity, Bahá’í view of, 262

Dobbins, Bertha, 112, 265, 316, 323, 326, 333, 339, 346, 365, 371, 386, 390, 421, 431, 438, 477, 482, 484

Dobbins, Bertha and Joe, 312

Dobbins, Joe, 236, 241, 248, 266, 312, 418, 473, 477

Dugdale, Dorothy, 260, 267, 478

Dunn, Clara, 7, 33–34, 41–43, 56, 100, 102, 117, 146, 	150–151, 154, 157, 159, 166, 184, 209, 218, 227, 	231, 234–235, 238–240, 243, 246–247, 249, 	251–252, 258, 270–271, 277–278, 280–281, 	288, 293, 300–301, 306, 317, 322, 329, 336–	337, 339, 342, 345, 351, 373, 379, 388, 391, 	394, 402, 411, 422, 447, 450–451, 455, 460–	462, 479, 485

appointed Hand of the Cause, 388

Dunn, Clara and Hyde, 9–10, 47, 188, 199, 201, 206–207, 212, 215, 218, 231–235, 237, 279, 471, 476, 481, 482

Dunn, Hyde, 7, 33–39, 42–43, 47, 50, 56, 60, 86, 157–158, 166, 172, 187–188, 200, 207, 212, 215–217, 233–235, 238–239, 247, 249, 257, 268, 271–273, 280–281, 285, 287, 293–294, 299, 306–307, 311, 317–318, 327, 329, 337, 361, 402, 441, 455, 467–469, 471, 473, 475–476, 478–482, 488

Hand of the Cause, 101

Dunning, Marie, 107, 382, 399, 402, 404, 406, 410, 416, 460, 478

E

Echtner, Vuk, 454

education, 192, 202, 243, 260, 458, 469

Egypt, 42, 48, 67, 208, 211, 245, 474

elections, 64, 70, 193, 194, 196, 207, 269, 270, 344, 447, 485

England, 11, 65, 67, 70, 125, 208, 212, 231, 239, 291, 298, 356, 369, 416, 468, 469, 473, 474, 475, 476, 484, 486

Esperanto, 5, 208, 229

Esslemont, John, 209, 210, 212, 213, 214, 218, 246

Esslemont, Peter, 213

Estall, Roland, 303, 478

Ethiopia, 424

F

Faizi, A. Q., 117, 183, 408, 409, 482

Featherstone, H. Collis, 72, 135, 177, 184, 339, 340, 349, 351, 399, 401, 427, 441–442, 450, 456, 460–461, 462, 463, 478

Featherstone, Madge, 479

Féminier, Melle, 389

Fernie, Elena, 407

Fernie, Roy, 405, 423, 438, 451, 463, 479

Fernie, Roy and Elena, 407, 424, 479

Fiji, 91, 93, 96, 102, 106, 107, 124, 370, 382, 383, 392, 398, 429, 474, 475, 482, 483, 484, 485

Fitzner, Harold, 367

Fitzner, Harold and Florence, 367, 372, 413, 416, 417, 479

Forrest, Margaret, 428, 435

France, 189, 211, 406, 462, 480

Fugita, Sachiro, 231

Furutan, A. A., 117, 183, 408–409, 482

G

Germany, 131, 189, 192, 193, 212, 214, 381, 394, 484

Getsinger, Lua, 42

Gewertz, Gertrude.  See Gertrude Blum

Giachery, Ugo, 455

Gilbert and Ellice Islands, 423, 446, 451, 452, 479

Gilbert and Ellice Islands, 438, 479

Gilbert, Hilda, 44, 327

Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, 38

God Passes By, 71, 81, 341

Gray, Mrs Edward, 208

Great Britain, 96, 189, 193

Greatest Holy Leaf, 122, 201, 210–211, 214, 219, 225, 	234, 237, 250, 252–255

passing of, 29

Greatest Name, 13, 27, 96

Guam, 413, 417, 437, 440, 443, 457, 463, 486

H

Habíb, Dr, 229

Haifa, 8, 10–11, 20, 25, 27–29, 44, 71, 78,

Haifa (continued), 91, 92, 100, 106, 117, 122, 144, 196, 	199, 206, 209, 212, 214–215, 219, 232, 239, 	242–243, 245–247, 249, 251, 256, 260–261, 	274, 276, 294, 296, 298, 310, 313, 315–316, 	320, 337, 345, 347, 368, 378, 381, 396–397, 	405–407, 411, 414, 425, 433, 465, 469, 474–	476

Pilgrims, 10

Hancock, Rodney, 442

Hanford Ford, Mary, 38

Harnish, Beryl, 480

Harnish, Margaret, 480

Haumont, Daniel, 462, 480

Hawthorne, Rose, 28, 34, 36, 440, 473, 480

Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds, 47–56, 63, 89, 115–116, 119, 122, 	124, 127, 147, 200, 208, 209, 326, 327, 425, 	455, 469,

—Auckland, 120

Healing Prayer, 2

Hearn, Rupert, 480

Heggie, James, 39, 44, 46, 76, 173, 305, 315, 320, 356, 376, 480, 481

Heller, Frances, 451

Herald of the South, 3, 5, 9, 14, 21, 109, 150, 212, 217, 225–227, 241, 248, 267, 273, 448, 468, 473, 475–477, 479, 481, 484, 488

Hobart, 28, 32, 63, 206, 208, 305, 310, 319, 344, 358, 473, 482, 484, 488

Hoehnke, Violet, 120, 445, 449, 454, 455, 481

Hollaway, Miss, 289

Holley, Horace, 90, 110, 230, 244, 268

House of Bahá’u’lláh, 235

House of Worship—see Mashriqu’l-Adhkár

Ḥuqúqu’lláh, 430

Hutchinson Smith, Alicia, 381, 394

Hutchinson-Smith, Lily Jean, 331, 355, 359, 365, 379

I

India, 14, 27, 45, 48, 65, 67, 70, 88, 96, 132, 140, 192, 242, 244, 247, 294, 295, 296, 368, 401, 405, 424, 487, 489

Inman, Guy, 7, 271, 481

intercalary days, 39

International Bahá’í Archives, 8

International Bahá’í Council, 108

International Bahá’í Fund, 10, 22, 26, 29, 37, 44, 78, 427, 453, 457

Iran, 3, 8, 48, 69, 70, 124, 129–130, 137, 146, 149, 206, 	214–216, 229–230, 235, 256, 343, 368, 432, 	433, 469

Condition of Bahá’í Community, 3

earthquake in Khurásán, 236

‘Iráq, 48, 197, 217

‘Iraq (continued)—House of Bahá’u’lláh, 216

‘Ishqábád

Condition of Bahá’í Community, 30

Ives, Mabel, 329

J

Jack, Marion, 355

Jackman, Silver, 481

Jankko, Greta, 481

Japan, 189, 192, 488

Juleff, Mary, 228, 482

Justice, 209, 217, 235, 262

K

Kaltoli, Peter, 431, 482

Kanare, Peter, 423, 482

Karachi, 296

Katzmann, Mr and Mrs, 110

Khán, Zainab, 382, 398, 482

Khánum, Munírih (the Holy Mother), 23–24, 291

Kilford, Miss, 214

King, Mr and Mrs, 210, 213

Kitáb-i-‘Ahd, 155

Kitáb-i-Aqdas, 2, 136, 191, 197, 198, 259

Kitáb-i-Íqán, 258

Knight of Bahá’u’lláh, 109, 115, 123–124, 367, 403, 416, 467, 470, 474–477, 479–483, 485,-488

Koala News, 427

Kokoria, 451, 452

L

Lake, Greta, 409, 483

Lamprill, Gretta, 28, 112, 176, 308, 314, 358, 385, 482

Latimer, Mrs, 298

Leadley, Percy, 447, 482

League of Nations, 235

Lee, Nora, 483

Local Spiritual Assemblies boundaries, 134

by-Laws, 77, 80, 86, 129, 130, 357

responsibilities, 136

Haifa, 199

Payneham, 408

Woodville, 352

Lovelady, Antoinette and James, 384

Loyalty Islands, 144, 424, 437, 480

Lunt, Alfred, 244

M

Mackay, Charles, 426, 436

Máh-Kú, Fortress of, 146

Manus, 140, 445, 481

Maoris, 118, 126, 133, 147, 148, 244, 246, 262, 276, 456, 476

Mariana Islands, 403, 413, 417, 426, 436, 440, 457, 466, 485–486

Marques, Jose, 115, 121, 136, 483

Marquesas, 462, 481

Mashriqu’l-Adhkár

Chicago, 131

Haifa, 131

Kampala, 145

New Zealand, 147, 456

Sydney, 111, 113, 114, 119, 127, 130, 135, 138–143, 	145–146, 150, 152, 154–155

Ṭihrán [Tehran], 131

Wilmette, 45, 264

mathematics, 395

Maude, Harry, 450

Maxwell, James, 393, 399, 484

Maxwell, Sutherland, 85, 102, 370

Maxwell, May, 248

McLachlan, Mrs E., 271

McMiles, Ellen (Nell), 334, 484

Melbourne, 9–10, 21, 23, 28, 32, 63, 77, 164–165, 178, 206–207, 242, 467, 469, 473–475, 479, 481, 484, 487–488

mental tests, 203

Mesdag—first Dutch Bahá’í, 211

Miller, Anne and William, 483

Miller, Annie, 245, 246, 253, 286, 291

Millway, Jean, 432, 484

Millway, Margaret, 387

Mittagong Star, 31, 327

Moffitt, Charlotte, 34, 37, 484

Moses, 209

Mottahedeh, Mildred, 420

Motteram, Mr, 306

Motteram, Walter, 484

Muḥammad, 38, 39, 198, 209, 229

Muller, Gertrude, 335, 385, 483–484

N

National Convention, 15, 18, 23, 34, 45, 49, 52, 62–64, 69–70, 77, 81, 110, 114–115, 134, 142, 145, 148, 170, 194, 197, 216, 269–274, 286–287, 329, 349, 356, 368, 375, 389, 401–402, 429, 440–441, 455, 457, 467–468, 471, 474–475, 477, 481, 484

National Spiritual Assembly, 194, 270

Australasia (Australia and New Zealand), 207, 	208, 216, 264, 267, 269, 273, 280

first Convention, 1

New Zealand, 433, 447, 455

North America, 263, 264

role of committees, 63

National Teaching Committee, 109

National Youth Committee, 353, 356, 411, 427

Naw-Rúz, 35, 69, 101, 286, 299, 319, 331, 337, 344, 346, 352, 411, 427, 455

New Caledonia, 101, 106, 389, 424, 437, 444, 453, 480, 487, 488

New Guinea, 110

New Hebrides, 109, 151, 418, 421, 431, 438, 477, 481, 487

New History Society, 30, 63, 238

New Zealand, 347, 354, 370, 392, 439, 447

National Spiritual Assembly, 92, 119, 		128, 136, 142, 147

South Island, 148, 354, 436, 456

New Zealand Summer School, 86, 355, 363, 373, 385, 399, 408, 425, 437, 452

Nineteen Day Feast, 442

Norden, Else, 391, 396, 398, 484

Norfolk Island, 233

North America, 12, 15, 22, 24, 36, 39, 44, 54, 67, 74, 88, 97, 115, 143, 189, 192–193, 196, 238–239, 243–244, 246, 261, 270, 273, 295, 298, 323, 329, 336–337, 340, 343, 348, 352, 356, 363, 410, 463, 470–472, 474, 478, 480, 485, 486

North Sydney, 322

numerology, 260

Nur, Violet and Ali, 485

O

Olson, Cynthia, 417, 426, 466, 485

Olson, Cynthia and Edgar, 410, 436

Orange, NSW, 413, 422, 433, 439, 446, 449, 471, 472, 474, 488

P

Pacific Islands, 57, 75, 87, 93, 97–98, 102–103, 110, 117–118, 124, 127–128, 135–136, 148, 150–153, 188, 193, 200, 204, 375, 392, 403–405, 407, 424, 438, 441, 450, 452, 456, 463, 467, 470, 472, 476–478, 481, 483, 485, 487

Palestine, 28, 206, 209, 222, 292–293, 296, 298–300, 302, 470

Palmer, B. J., 261, 268

Palter, Miss, 230

Papua New Guinea, 445, 449, 454, 455, 470, 474, 481, 489

Parke, Gladys, 112

Paul, Mr, 262

Peak, Olga, 334, 485

Perdu, Joseph, 76, 91, 353, 485

Perks, Thelma, 86, 184, 338, 345, 351, 382, 390, 450, 451, 460, 461, 485

perseverance, 206, 215, 217, 222–224, 226–227, 241, 249, 263, 266, 285, 305

Perth, 15, 20, 27, 206, 231, 236, 245, 249, 252–253, 	286–287, 291–292, 350, 353, 356, 360, 473–	474, 482–484

formation of Local Spiritual Assembly, 12

Peterson, Mariette and Walter, 386

Philippines, 343

philosophers—East and West, 66

pilgrimage, 10, 20, 22, 27, 28, 86, 91, 107, 112, 117, 187, 208–210, 212, 219, 240, 249, 252, 275, 282, 292–294, 304, 313, 316, 320, 341, 345, 356, 381, 393, 396, 399, 401, 402, 404, 406–408, 410, 416, 420, 426, 536–437, 444, 446, 450–451, 453, 460, 462, 466, 469, 471, 474, 476, 487

pilgrims—first Australian and New Zealand, 207

pilgrims’ notes, 341

pioneering, 14, 35, 67, 92, 96, 103, 107–109, 111, 113, 118, 123, 135–136, 151, 215, 218, 226, 231, 233–235, 239, 259–260, 265, 273, 278–281, 298, 301–302, 314, 337, 353, 357, 364–365, 381, 383, 389, 391–392, 403, 405, 407–408, 410, 413,417–418, 421, 424, 427–428, 430, 432, 437, 439, 443, 446, 451, 475, 477–480, 487, 489

pioneers, 45, 55, 64–65, 74, 82–83, 108–111, 117–119, 125–126, 143–144, 151, 204, 217, 222, 237, 302, 317, 337, 353, 355–356, 364, 403, 414, 417–418, 420, 450, 456, 460, 476

Plato, 66

Podger, David, 458, 476

political parties—Bahá’í approach to, 350

Pollard, Gladys, 378, 486

Port Adelaide, 339

Port Said, 243, 299

Portuguese Timor (Timor-Leste), 109, 114, 121, 144, 401, 417

Powers, Robert, 403, 413, 418, 443, 486

psychic practices and phenomena, 21

punishment—Bahá’í view of, 262

Q

Queen Marie of Rumania, 229, 297

Queensland, 34, 231, 329, 472, 479, 484, 486, 489

Quesada, Mr, 437

R

Ransom-Kehler, Keith, 219, 242–243, 247, 250–251, 256, 311, 341, 472, 474, 479–480, 486

Regional Teaching Committees, 67

reincarnation, 367

Remey, Charles Mason, 138–141, 150

Rodwell, Viva, 369, 377–389, 486

Rodwell, Viva and Jeff, 486

Root, Martha, 23, 25–27, 36, 163, 165–166, 204–205, 208–209, 211, 242, 293–296, 297, 298, 301, 469, 473, 484

Routh, Jane, 28, 37, 484, 486

Rumi, Siyyid Mustafa, 74, 296

S

Samoa, 106, 113, 125, 452, 463, 467, 474, 475, 479

Saunders, Keithie, 345

Schiller, Rolf, 446, 451, 486

Schopflocher, Florence (Lorel), 214, 486

Schopflocher, Siegfried, 14, 17, 211, 283–285, 486, 487

Scotland, 212, 213, 480

Seven-Year Plan, 58

Sevin, Jean, 406, 462, 487

Shoghi Effendi

example of hand-writing, 181

passing of, 465

Shrine of the Báb, 52, 78, 85, 89–93, 95, 99–101, 104–107, 110, 122, 131, 135, 150, 204, 210–211, 213, 237, 285, 299, 332, 361, 369, 373, 376–382, 384–388, 390, 393–394, 397–400, 404, , 413–414

Skinner, Doris, 303

smoking—Bahá’í attitude to, 421

Society Islands (French Polynesia), 125, 144, 424, 453, 462, 480, 482

Socrates, 67

Soheili, Shapoor, 424, 453, 487

Soheili, Shapoor and Monira, 444

Sohrab, Ahmad, 30, 91

Solomon Islands, 125, 149, 414, 416, 420, 467, 486, 489

Some Answered Questions, 199, 258, 341, 453

South Africa, 289 South East Asia, 103

spiritual axis, 153

Squelch, Gertrude, 434, 435

St. Peters Bahá’í Group, 380–381, 387, 393, 399, 400

Stenstrand, August J., 232

Stevenson, Margaret, 201, 207, 210, 211, 212, 213, 218, 223, 232, 235, 246, 471, 487

Stirling, 408

Styles, Albert, 487

Summer School, 284

Auckland, 361

Australian, 336

New Zealand, 84, 370

Yerrinbool, 287, 301

Geyserville, 297

Switzerland, 189, 364, 392, 467

Sydney, 7, 17–18, 22, 24–25, 33, 44, 47–53, 58, 63, 111, 113–114, 117, 122, 130, 135, 141, 146, 150, 154, 175, 186, 188, 205–206, 208, 225, 242–243, 249–252

Sydney (continued), 256, 264–265, 268, 278, 280, 283–284, 286, 288, 296–297, 299–301, 304, 308–310, 316, 322, 324, 327, 329–330, 331, 336–338, 343, 401, 403, 412, 439, 467–478, 480–488

Sydney Local Spiritual Assembly, 15, 17, 18, 484, 486, 488

T

Tablets of the Divine Plan, 97, 108, 142, 478

Tahiti (French Polynesia), 112, 117, 133, 460, 462, 472, 480, 481, 482

Tasmania, 28, 39, 65, 74, 78, 82–84, 87, 92, 97, 102–103, 110–111, 126, 145, 204, 235, 305, 310, 314, 319, 344, 368, 379, 401, 482, 488

teaching

by Martha Root, 23

campaigns by Brooks,

Moffit and Routh, 37

the cornerstone of National Assembly’s 	activities, 9

National Assembly to extend scope of, 31

scarcity of Bahá’í teachers, 29

stimulating by convening of National 	Convention, 23

Ten Year World Crusade, 97, 103, 105–111, 113, 115–119, 121–123, 126–127, 132–133, 135, 137–138, 140–144, 152–153, 395, 397, 404–405, 408–411, 413, 419, 426, 438, 456, 467, 470, 472, 474, 476–479, 481–482, 484, 486–488

The Bahá’í World, 7, 9, 12, 18, 34, 37–38, 50, 52, 74, 77, 86–87, 92, 94, 107, 109, 119, 191, 244–245, 268, 273, 279, 290, 307, 379, 468, 469, 473, 479, 483, 487

The Chosen Highway, 341

The Promised Day is Come, 36

The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, 244

Theosophy, 366, 469, 473

Thomas, Hilda.  See also “Brooks, Hilda”,

Thomson, Mrs, 332

Thornton, Amy, 213, 487

tie vote, 19

Toeq, Daoud, 69

Tokarake, 451, 452

Tonga, 125, 409, 413, 419–420, 423, 432, 443, 470, 472, 474, 475

translations of Bahá’í literature, 66, 69, 77, 117, 125, 132, 133, 135, 151, 211, 238, 262, 294, 420, 427, 459

travel teaching, 191, 200, 205, 239, 246, 256, 353, 379, 445, 472, 487

Turkestan, 192

Turkey, 355

Turner, Stella, 379

U

Universal House of Justice, 8, 125, 128, 131, 135–136, 148, 151, 193, 194, 265, 272, 456, 487

Uskúlí, Mírzá H. A., 96, 488

V

Varqa, Valiyu’llah, 69, 116, 140, 145, 146, 420, 460

Victoria, 32

Vivisection, 131

voting rights and procedures, 19, 80, 81, 85, 86, 126, 136, 360, 361, 362, 363, 365, 457

W

Wachsverger, Mr, 386

Wanganui, 373, 474

Washington, Bill, 437, 444, 488

Watkin, Eric, 259, 265

Watkin, Evelyn, 224, 230, 488

Welding, Annabel, 44

Whitaker, Oswald, 44, 160, 480, 488

Wilson, Mr and Mrs, 283

Winter School, 37, 309, 327

Wollongong, 343, 471, 474, 478

World Religion Day, 102

Wyss, Frank, 123, 335, 388, 426, 436, 444, 488

Wyss, Lilian, 364, 392, 402, 403

Y

Yaganegi, Ruhengiz, 405, 489

Z

Zoroaster, 38, 300