The Last Refuge
Fifty Years of the
Universal House of Justice
Shahbaz Fatheazam
`Irfan Publication
Occasional Papers

‘Irfán Colloquia
Bahá’í National Center
1233 Central Street
Evanston, IL 60201
Phone: (847) 733-3501
Fax: (847) 733-3527
E-mail: contact@irfancolloquia.org
www.irfancolloquia.org
General editor Iraj Ayman
Design & Typeset by Majid Nolley
172 B.E. 2015 C.E.
ISBN 978-3-942426-26-8
Copyright © 2015, Haj Mehdi Arjmand Memorial Fund
Cover photo of the room where the Universal
House of Justice held its meetings  before the
building of the Seat on Mount Carmel.
National Bahá’í Archives, United States

IN LOVING MEMORY OF
Hushmand Fatheazam
1924 — 2013
A dear and uncommon father who taught us that exploits of service can be
as much a way of life as they are the indelible marks of sublimity, and that
plain humanity can be as extravagant and fascinating as triumphs may tower
subdued and ineffable.

Foreword
The seven sessions of Irfan Colloquia in 2013 were partially devoted to the
jubilee celebration of the first election of the Universal House of Justice
in 1963. A historic part of `Irfán Colloquium programs in 2013 were the
presence of two members of the Universal House of Justice who had been
elected in 1963 and were still in this world. They were invited to address
the `Irfán Colloquia sessions and talk about their memories of that history
making event. They were Mr. Ali Nakhjavani and Mr. Houshmand Fatheazam.
Mr. Fatheazam was unable, due to his health condition, to personally attend
the colloquium and made his presentation through a video recording which
was screened in all sessions of the `Irfán Colloquium in that year. Mr. Nakh­
javani graced the `Irfán Colloquium sessions at the Acuto Center for Bahá’í
Studies in Italy and addressed those gatherings in both Persian and English.
His talks were video recorded and screened in other `Irfán colloquia
sessions in that year. These video recordings are precious documents on a
very important development in the history of the Bahá’í Faith.
In addition to those talks, Mr. Shahbaz Fatheazam, Mr. Houshmand
Fatheazam’s son, who had been an eye witness to those history making
developments, was invited to record his impressions of, and his thoughts
about that event, and the fifty years of functioning of the Universal House
of Justice as the supreme governing body and world center of the Bahá’í
community. The Last Refuge is Shahbaz Fatheazam’s narrative. `Irfán Col­
loquium Publications is pleased to present this narrative as an additional
document to the video recordings described above.
Iraj Ayman
`Irfán Publications

Part One
Personal Reflections
Preface
Introduction
‘Shepherds unto His sheep’

The Last Refuge: Part 1
Preface
This paper celebrates fifty years of the establishment of the Universal
House of Justice but it has not been specially commissioned. It is intended
simply to commemorate what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has referred to as the day when
“the faithful rejoice”1, the election of the first historic Universal House of
Justice. There is the additional quandary that coinciding as this period does
with my own personal life, any writing shall be suspect, not just by scholars
who find my private perch from which to survey this exceptionally fecund
period in modern Bahá’í history an invitation to a biased and an inevitably
distorted angle of vision, but by others too who do not share my analytical
introspection or feelings about these times. The argument is not so much
about facts but about the experience of living through this period and
feeling the immensity of the plans at work. Very few lucky enough to have
witnessed that extraordinary moment will doubt that what is written here
has been what most have felt but when one writes about one’s own time
inevitably personal experience shapes the way we see events and even the
way we assess the evidence — a very real danger whenever wondering eyes
are fanned by ardor. For me, those 5 days in late April and early May, 1963, in
Knightsbridge, London, where some 6,000 believers had gathered in Royal
Albert Hall to greet the newly elected Universal House of Justice, is a part of
the past which is still very much part of my present. I can still see the scene,
as in a dream, the child of 7 peering over from one of the balconies, called

Shahbaz Fatheazam
boxes, at the scene below. The energy of this opening drama was palpable
even for a young lad who did not know why his father was standing, with
eight others, with his hands clasped and head bowed, before a cheering
multitude. For sure, a historian’s predicament and unease at the task of
deconstructing a spiritually charged, at times, seemingly mythical narrative
but, as fate would have it, my privileged, inalienable function to expose. I
cannot apologize for seeing through glasses ground by my father, an early
protagonist of this fascinating period of Bahá’í history but, as I am certain
I can never know what these early members of the supreme body of our
Faith thought privately, I am also certain that I have never been prevented
from learning what they said or wrote publicly. The various forms in which
such personal observations have occurred in the last fifty years may be
considered by the faithful as true, by some scholars useful, but never can
anyone ridicule as false. In the next few pages, we shall look backward over
the road at 10 Haparsim Street2 that led the Bahá’í community to where it
is now and the many questions that arose, were stilled and which persist
to this day regarding the many aspects of this divinely ordained, crowning
institution of the Bahá’í Faith. The problem of synthesis, however, of fitting
together the various manifestations of human thought and action, may, in
the end, have proved too challenging (fitter pens will do better on this
important task) and my attempt to address it may have failed lamentably,
but then only me to blame to have dared embark on this “perilous pleasure”
and justly to receive that very unhelpful advice given to the poor Irish
traveler inquiring about the way to Ballynahinch. He was told: “If I were you,
I wouldn’t start from here at all.”
NOTES
1.	 	 The fulfillment of the prophecy contained in Daniel 12:12 coinciding with a span of time that
includes 1963. See, Messages from the Universal House of Justice 1963—1986, compiled by
Geoffrey W. Marks, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, 1996, page 738.

The Last Refuge: Part 1
2.	 	 The building located at the foot of Mount Carmel, in Haifa, Israel, across the street from
the House of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá which, for several decades, served as the Western Pilgrim
House and, for twenty years, the seat of the Universal House of Justice and its offices. The
decision to occupy 10 Haparsim St. came from the House itself and communicated to the
Hands of the Cause in late May, 1963.

The Last Refuge: Part 1
Introduction
We begin with a brief, personal account. It recalls the events that trans­
pired on my father’s final day at the Seat of the Universal House of Justice,
significant not so much for the commotion of farewell, but for the thought
uppermost in the mind of a man set to leave the stage. Mr. Peter Sjörström,
at the World Centre since 2000 and working in the Secretariat for 12
years, told me over dinner in Haifa once that as he accompanied both
of my parents to the Council Chamber for their farewell with the House
members (early in May of 2003)1 my father suddenly turns to him and says:
“You know, I have never met the Universal House of Justice before!” Peter
said that these words stunned him and left him with an indelible impression.
One simple, telling line but an ovation to an entire life’s learning. A feeling
of unreality had possessed my father (or dispossessed him) for the sense
of detachment was very strong, and one which broke the ego-self axis into
pieces — the silent ego aware of a superior centre to which it was subor­
dinate. But only in this way, perhaps, that my father could truly feel safe.2
My parents then emerged from the Chamber with a beautiful gift offered in
recognition of the many decades of service, a silver tray engraved with the
official seal of the World Centre above and etched with these simple words:

Shahbaz Fatheazam
Hushmand and Shafiqih Fatheazam
with heartfelt gratitude and abiding love
The Universal House of Justice
Aside from the disarming simplicity of the souvenir, strangely, no date is
fixed on this inscription as if to imply that life’s temporal conjunctions, its
corruptible continuum of beginning, middle and end — do not matter as
much as the tree, its fruit and its essence that are left behind. This prelude
to our brief survey of the international governing body of the Bahá’í Faith
gives us a very special pre-disposition to a unique form of learning. When
my father uttered those final words there was no fear or confusion in his
mind. (These always act as barriers to understanding and response and
which often make worthless our intellectual facility). Here was proof that
mind and feeling need not be disjoined. My father made a return upon
himself. He had overcome intellectual discipline and had allowed the ac­
cumulated deposits of love to carry him and his wife Shafiqih inside the
Council Chamber. In this particular type of schooling, the clear perceptions
and decisiveness of adulthood are intertwined with the innocence and awe
of childhood. This is the vitality and health of the true intellectual, I believe,
one that clearly senses what is alien or destructive, what does not comport
with his or her moral vision, but matched with the humility needed for
self-awareness. And this is never possible if the ‘ceremony of innocence’ is
drowned. We may never be good teachers, my parents seem to say, but we
can always be diligent students — not just pupils who have grown older or
taller but active learners who have renounced the qualification of educator
to inherit the mantle of discipleship, but only after their fair share of testing
and questioning. (“Both teachers and learners go to sleep at their post, as
soon as there is no enemy in the field.”)3 In the dynamic and perpetual act
of (re)discovery and preservation, our inquiry is actually yielding (teaching)
useful knowledge, (re)search, and other massive constituents of intellect,
but all of these activities have, at its center, the enterprise of learning and
not a teacher’s training college. Father understood Goethe’s dictum that
one knows much only in the sense that one knows little.4 He also made

The Last Refuge: Part 1
sure that the tree of knowledge did not rob him the fruit of life, eloquently
expressed in those few words on that emotionally charged morning in the
month of May.
Such reading into the grammar of conduct of one man and his devotion
to truth is clearly not to detract attention from the importance of meth­
odology5 or to downplay the faculty of reasoning. Nor are we condemning
the academic approach. Much less are we hinting at the other extreme,
that personal belief alone is a balance by which all verities are assayed; or
alerting the reader to the ironic danger of merging objectivity with what is
obviously a study of our own community. Nor should this confessional tale
mislead the reader in assuming that there is no scientific merit in choosing
a genuinely incommensurable subject for which there is no comparable
political or religious formula or sufficient grounds for impartiality (like
Euclidean geometry) to fend off the assault of superstition. Controversy
does not go away by separating the ‘questionable’ subjective from the
‘acceptable’ objective — a putative pair and a moral dilemma which seems
irresolvable even when we follow J.L Austin’s intelligent advice that when
one member falls under suspicion, it is only wise to view the more inno­
cent-seeking party suspiciously as well. The extreme rationalism of Leibniz
and the extreme skepticism of Hume are to be avoided not just because
one is indefensible and the other unsatisfactory but because knowledge
is something in its perfection — timeless and ideal. We are forever in the
danger of contrasting half-beliefs, albeit clearly and consistently, because
reality is always more extensive than our current understanding of it. What
is being proposed here is that no reasonable person can advance the
claims of intellect without either acknowledging its perils and limitations
or having only an imperfect grasp of intellect’s discipline. Intellect enjoys
making distinctions and succumbs to definitions but these separate what
it has belabored to distinguish and the parts are never rejoined leaving a
deep void and a cognitive wound unhealed. Explanation can obscure truth
and ideas may actually destroy it. Father was fond of saying that we suffer
from an ‘illness of definition’. He mentioned this on several occasions. By

Shahbaz Fatheazam
this he meant that excessive analysis into the mysterious workings of God’s
Cause, like gazing directly into the sun, makes us blind. When we are struck
by this illness, we are harmed and afraid to experiment, to freely realize
our attempts to human plenitude in forming communities, in teaching the
Faith, in running Assemblies and so on. We wrongfully rely on palliative
definitions to encourage us to act but, in truth, we are moved to inaction
because there is no spontaneous innovation in applying the teachings. To
prostrate, fall freely to heavenly verses in praise of God or follow instantly
is as capricious as the arrogance of disbelief. Such opposite extremes are
the after-effects of the same illness, one resulting from the paralyzing mania
of never venturing beyond the invisible line of sterile obedience, the other
from stepping so far out that we develop a counterculture so strong as to
confuse the healthy intrusion of all that is foreign and new as debilitating
and life-threatening (as per the microscopic point of view) and which must
be fought at all costs. Short-sighted, hasty explanation, as much as the ar­
chitectonic, both, obscure truth and the emergence of ideas.6
While ideas develop as a system of thought and have been intellectually
worked out, these may actually denote a way of thinking and feeling which
is more emotional than rationalized and, paradoxically, such sentiments may
actually kill the peaceful conduct of ordinary life precisely because intellect
is rigid and allows no oversight. The practical arrangements needed for sus­
taining order always fall secondary to the formation of new ideas driven by
intellect — a common, universal ailment. As one nineteenth century student
of government famously warned: “Rigorous reasoning would not manage a
parish vestry, much less a great nation.”7
Intellect is not fixed but always relative to the culture, ideas, arts and
sciences, of the times. It needs aging before it is potable and safe and this
thought should make us prudent, and we are not just referring to young
minds but to all populations today that are ‘new’ in the sense that the history
of thought with its cemetery of formulas has taken away the traditional,

The Last Refuge: Part 1
utilitarian role of ideology, the battleground of the intellectual.8 We must
not be allowed to be lured, or duped, by the blandishments of dogmas, of
the arts and sciences, and thusly make ourselves susceptible to the tempta­
tions of intellectualism with its inevitable incongruity and disease.9
A Bahá’í study (meaning one conducted by a Bahá’í rather than implying a
new scientific methodology for Bahá’í academics) is greatly assisted when
inspiration, that “influx of the human heart”10 rides on active participation
in Bahá’í affairs, in any capacity, at any level, independently of experience.
Not idle observation of an empirical nature but, quite literally, allowing
ourselves to be “… caught up in…the struggle of a very young community
to understand and express the ideals expounded in the teachings of its
founder”11 and “…show to the world a mature, responsible, fundamentally
assured and happy way of life, far removed from the passions, prejudices
and distractions of present day society.”12 Our conscious and, not seldom,
testing involvement in the work of the Bahá’í community is a pivotal point.
The act of service, the imprint of the true humanitarian enthusiast as the
American humanist Irving Babbit was prone to preach, strengthens our
understanding of Bahá’í society.13 It is within the domain of the actor, and
not just a supporting actor, where consistent corroboration of evidence
and information may be found to make any study and its conclusions less
prone to error and more acceptable to outsiders. But actors, one must add,
who comprehend their roles.14 The influence which such an analysis exerts
is greatly enhanced when the spiritual exposition intrinsic to it is done in a
language that epitomizes “…Bahá’u’lláh’s call for a style of communication
replete with tact, wisdom, fairness and integrity.”15 Such a desired outcome
is achieved, not through piety or a sub-intellectualized attitude for what
actually is, but by developing our true intellect through (a) obedience to
its limits, (b) broadening our platform of rationalization by being active
supporters involved in the new world community and (c) resisting to supine
religious conviction. All three combined to form the texture of a balanced
Bahá’í research because it ennobles us as human beings.16 At 79 years of
age (his age at the time of resignation), father personified this stance par

Shahbaz Fatheazam
excellence and embodied the adage that intellect is the watcher and life
the participant, without considering too carefully how all his lessons were
to be applied in a temporal and mutable world below the moon.
There exists, however, a problem of a different order, namely, how to move
the information we have gathered into any form of conceptual framework.
The long tradition, especially in political science, of a comparative
approach17 confronts, in the idea of Bahá’u’lláh’s World Order, the formi­
dable proposition that there is no basis on which to test explanations or
theories. To put it candidly: “It would be utterly misleading to attempt a
comparison between this unique, this divinely-conceived Order and any
of the diverse systems which the minds of men, at various periods of
their history, have contrived for the government of human institutions”18
or, adding even greater perplexity to the student of politics: “…systems of
human polity, whether past or present, whether originating in the East or in
the West, offer no adequate criterion wherewith to estimate the potency
of its hidden virtues or to appraise the solidity of its foundations”.19 We can
try to systematically order empirical evidence and proceed scientifically
from description of this Order to its explanation and, eventually, prediction
as to how it may evolve but the unusually singular system of Bahá’í admin­
istration does not provide those universally recognized ‘facts’ of political
life from which to infer regularities across political systems or forms of gov­
ernment. What ‘fact’, may one reasonably ask, can be ascribed to the belief
that the origins of Bahá’í Administrative Order are “… those hidden springs
of celestial strength”20 or, that such a unique order relies “…solely upon that
mystic Source with which no worldly advantage… can compare…”?21 Critics
will say that such magnificent peroration just confirms that any and all
analysis is hopeless given the biased core of such a study and that religious
abstraction is not conducive to finding meaningful answers. This is a valid
objection especially when it is precisely at this first stage of theory building
— the formulation and description of the model — where it is important to
use words and concepts that are understood clearly, and in the same way,

The Last Refuge: Part 1
by everyone. But the problem does not go away simply because the need
for just such a set of concepts is difficult to satisfy, difficult to understand,
and with a very unique and peculiar application not particularly helpful to
a study of this kind.
In trying to solve our dilemma we must ask the question: what exactly are we
to explain? A more refined concept of politics and society which develops
concepts that can ‘travel’ — i.e. are truly comparative across systems — and
can thus be related to the political process in various societies and to which
all people may easily connect? This clearly benefits research design but the
question is not just with method but with the substance itself, the ‘essential
institution’ of the Universal House of Justice, a very unique agency within
a very unique framework. Is analytical conclusion possible when we are
exhorted “to contemplate its administrative structure uninfluenced by
concepts from past ages…”?22
Barricaded by a model universe filled with deity of another realm, with
precepts composed ‘…with the tongue of power’ and ‘…written…with the
pen of might ’, we must quickly shift our logic of inquiry lest we are seen to
impair the validity of its results. And this must be done before comparativ­
ists start to elaborate their approach and begin investigating.
In a language written not to entertain nor to unhinge but to instruct, in no
controversial way, albeit with a deep cleavage of spirit, we are exhorted to
adopt a certain perspective which, in itself, has permanent appeal; namely,
that all good things, reason as well as revelation, nature as well as grace, the
commonwealth as well as the covenant, are equally, though diversely, of
God, ‘the Causer of Causes, and the Sustainer thereof’. Laws merely human,
if they are good, have all been copied out of the tables of that high everlast­
ing law which God made. Divine testimony and demonstrative reasoning
are kin. Words that surround us such as, “The Administrative Order… is, by
virtue of its origin and character, unique in the annals of the world’s religious
systems, ”23 or “…this Administrative Order is fundamentally different from

Shahbaz Fatheazam
anything that any Prophet has previously established...”24 are not to be
picked like flowers and taken home but to be enjoyed where they grow.
Out of their rightful place, expressions can easily lose their meaning and
their essence becomes discolored, lost. In such an argumentative context,
explanatory primacy, then, should be our mental order and not the matter
or object of study. The focus must surely be on our belief proportioned
to evidence and not the evidence itself. Method is inseparable from spirit
and character. We must try and explain the Universal House of Justice in
terms of our spiritual understanding and not to break it into pieces to fit the
ornaments of puzzled minds, however sophisticated or time-tested.
Given that that there is no precedent in this ‘supreme institution’ of the
Bahá’í Faith, representing as it does a departure from past and existing
systems ‘both in origin and in concept’, any explanation offered cannot
provide for useful theory because the explanatory hypothesis requires not
only to explain the case on which it is being based, but also other cases
(governments or institutions) that fall into the same set. Such data simply
is not available. If the similarities that exist between the Bahá’í system
and other political structures are not congruent can differences, then, be
meaningful? What is the current predominant perception, we may ask, of
any particular political formula akin to the workings of Bahá’í Administra­
tive Order? If we cannot predict with certainty how the Universal House
of Justice is likely to evolve in the future then maybe we should redefine
study not on predictability but, at best, catalogue the major similarities and
differences. But, then, what are the essential components of comparison?
Is it government, societies, parties, policies, elections, et cetera?25
How any religious community evolves undoubtedly rests on its ability to
analyze its institutional set-up but in this particular instance, navigating on
such uncharted waters, our own analysis is confined by time and by the
extraordinary nature of the Bahá’í system, hence the need to shift our logic
of inquiry, a summons to which even the most tutored mind might incline to
heed.26 Such a change in mentality, far from being a distortion in our rational

The Last Refuge: Part 1
attitude, or a mere impulsion which gives the appearance of logical or sci­
entific reasoning, may actually serve an important functional derivation in
the wider context of political thought. To quote one illustrious twentieth
century thinker of politics: “…when a political formula corresponds with
the mentality of the age and with the most widely shared sentiments of a
people, its utility is unquestionable.”27
Such incitement to a new form of reasoning is not to force historians or
political scientists to be more than a little credulous on the new conceptual
properties operating as causal factors in the political action of this unique
Order, revolutionary in its force yet evolutionary in the logic of its process28
but to permit, at the very least, that the near future be allowed to redress
the balance of our present incomprehension or imperfections in grasping
the full implications of Bahá’í Administration and to absolve any ingenuous
equivocation, at this early stage, between moral Bahá’í aspirations and its
practical consequences. More importantly, to avoid the unpleasant duty
of condemning history for having failed to realize the hopes and promises
which such an order may hold for mankind.
In a world today which, imaginatively and technologically, is seeing its com­
monwealth as possible and its interests as common, but resisting in that “our
single planetary globe is mocked by worlds of different understanding”29,
studying the Bahá’í model as a fresh frame of social relations definitely has
rationalist appeal although at odds with the dense facticity of political and
social practices in present day society and where discernment requires the
eye of faith. More importantly, we should inquire whether the Bahá’í model
is equipped to solve the terrible algebra of reconciling human fulfillment
with co-existence in vastly disparate societies? Yet even greater questions
are involved which the Bahá’í Faith addresses but which also have direct
implications for political theory as well: what is reasonable, for example,
for man to want and what should we really care about? How has the world
evolved and why is it the way it is? Have the traditions of understanding
politics accompanied the drastic changes we, as a species, have brought

Shahbaz Fatheazam
into the world?30 How are we to achieve what we want and how to secure
it? Does any political theory contain the resources to show us how the
future can be made less grim?
These various propositions, entertainingly treated by political theorist
John Dunn in his book Western Political Theory in the Face of the Future
(1979), only provide the backdrop to the current study. But as interesting
as these propositions are and as complicated as the formation of a con­
ceptual framework has been shown to be we must forge ahead. We try
and show how a common will, not dissimilar to the doctrine of the general
will31, is formed for this particular central authority of the Bahá’í Faith, the
Universal House of Justice, to survive and how it remains vitally signifi­
cant in ensuring the welfare not just of the community it was created to
protect but “…to foster that which is conducive to the… advancement and
betterment of the world.”32 We shall also see how the outcome of a healthy
interaction between masses and leaders can be made to match, as closely
as possible, intended results without the politics which flows from intended
predicaments. But before looking at new history, we must see history itself
otherwise, as Tolstoy savagely said, we shall be acting “…like a deaf man
replying to questions which nobody puts to him.”33
NOTES
1.	 	 Father had already formally expressed his desire to relinquish his membership to the Uni­
versal House of Justice in November of 2002, after 40 years of service. This permission
was granted by the Supreme Body but he was requested to continue to serve until the
election due in April of 2003. This was announced to the Baha’is of the world.
2.	  	 The thought, as much as the ambience, is captured from this segment of Bahá’u’lláh’s Tab­
let Asl-i-Kullu’l-Khayr (Words of Wisdom):”The essence of true safety is to observe silence,
to look at the end of things and to renounce the world.” Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed
After the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (TOB), Wilmette, Bahá’í Publishing Trust (BPT), 1988, page 157.
3.	 	 John Stuart Mill, On Liberty, Chapter II, available online http://www.constitution.org/jsm/
liberty.htm
4.	  	 This confession from one of Europe’s leading thinkers of the Enlightenment, to which all
true knowledge subscribes, really follows from what Socrates, the symbol of the martyred

The Last Refuge: Part 1
intellect and “the most distinguished of all philosophers” [Bahá’u’lláh, TOB, page 147] had
adjured over 2,000 years earlier: “I know that I know nothing.” [ἓν οἶδα ὅτι οὐδὲν οἶδα]
5.	 	 For a fascinating glimpse into the sophisticated world of political methodology, for exam­
ple, refer to the dense volume The Oxford Handbook of Political Methodology, Edited by
Janet M. Box-Steffensmeier, Henry E. Brady, and David Collier, Oxford, UP, 2008, where
good research design, technique, and improved data collection are emphasized as the
indispensable tools of the political scientist. But another view questions whether political
scientists should be such toolmakers at all and, instead, act as opinion-makers in illuminat­
ing the problems afflicting the world. See, Problems and Methods in the Study of Politics,
Edited by Ian Shapiro, Rogers M. Smith, and Tarek E. Masoud, Cambridge, UP, 2004.
6.	 	 In my professional area of work, piecemeal analysis and a particularity of interests act
against creating the necessary condition in which to test flourishing new ways to do things.
In a recent blog on the Harvard Business Review (HBR — December 2013), http://blogs.
hbr.org/2013/10/analysts-want-you-to-innovate-except-when-they-dont/ a research by
two professors concluded that too much financial analysis kills innovation and found a
direct correlation between companies with a top-heavy financial structure supporting an
excessive numbers of financial analysts and fewer patents being generated. Conversely,
when analyst coverage declined (for reasons such as mergers or closures of brokerages)
innovation increased. The emphasis on short-term results deter innovative projects in
the long-term. Creativity on all fronts, it seems, is stunted when we allow ourselves to be
swallowed by defining too narrowly rather than allowed to be led by the desire to refine
more broadly. No attempt will be made to ‘define’ father’s consciousness as a movement
to emotional rationality which knows through embrace rather than a dissection charac­
teristic of Western analytical rationality because we shall fall in the same doctrinal trap
of categorizing against which he warns us. What he is saying is more that there is no way
of establishing a proportion between what we know and what we do not know than he is
saying that the real motivating forces impelling us remain unknown to us. A dictionary of
the world is ill-advised.
7.	  	 Walter Bagehot, quoted in Jacques Barzun, The House of Intellect, New York, Perennial
Classics, 2002, page 154. The supposition here being that the rule of the governing class
ultimately justifies its power not on reason but upon popular sentiment or belief which, at
a given moment and among a particular people, is generally accepted as morally right.
8.	 	 The supposition that the older, grand humanistic ideologies derived from the nineteenth
and early twentieth centuries, are exhausted is not new. Karl Marx, for example, stated
that once a state progressed from capitalism, a classless society would emerge, rendering
ideology irrelevant. Daniel Bell, in his famous book, The End of Ideology: On the Exhaustion
of Political Ideas in the Fifties, published in 1960, argued that political ideology has become
irrelevant among “sensible” people, and that the polity of the future would be driven by
piecemeal technological adjustments of the extant system. The most celebrated thesis on
the subject, a kind of a cause célèbre, is that of Francis Fukuyama, in his earlier article, The
End of History, published in The National Interest, Summer of 1989, which reads: “What we
may be witnessing is…the end of history as such: that is, the end point of mankind’s ideo­
logical evolution and the universalization of Western liberal democracy as the final form of
human government.” [Preface]

Shahbaz Fatheazam
9.	 	 Intellectualism is a perversion of the intellect, its imitation, beginning with externals such
as a pompous jargon, manufactured vocabulary, affectation of method and rigor, the
pedantries of modern criticism but also hiding mixed, nocive motives such as desire for
authority and recognition and these, in turn, sub-consciously, creating the undesirable
qualities of pride and vanity. The tradition of intellect espouses order in thinking, reduc­
ing chaos into harmony, cataloguing the accumulation of knowledge and mapping out
relations of the separate departments. Intellect actually puts us in the way to correct its
own mistakes, such as the affliction of intellectualism referred to, and “[t]hough it does not
itself discover the unknown, it is one principal way by which discoveries are made.” John
H. Newman, from his seminal work An Essay in Aid of a Grammar of Assent, completed
in 1870, and quoted in Jacques Barzun’s, The House of Intellect, New York, Perennial
Classics, 2002, page 262.
10.	`Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, Wilmette, BPT, 1982, page 22. One may
define this phrase further as reasoning under the premise of true faith but not ratiocina­
tion by ‘satanic promptings’.
11.	 	 William S. Hatcher and J. Douglas Martin, The Bahá’í Faith: The Emerging Global Religion,
Harper & Row, 1985, page 173. There is a new edition 2002 by the Bahá’í Publishing Trust in
Wilmette.
12.	 	 The Universal House of Justice, in a letter announcing the Nine Year Plan, dated October
1963, and published in Messages from the Universal House of Justice 1963–1986 — The
Third Epoch of the Formative Age, compiled by Geoffrey W. Marks, Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
Wilmette, 1996, page 18.
13.	 	 Such strengthening improves our capacity to refute the arguments of those who are
antagonistic to the Faith. At a certain level, this can take the form of Bahá’í apologetics. For
a concise view of the importance of Bahá’í apologetics see Udo Schaefer’s article, Bahá’í
Apologetics?, published in The Bahá’í Studies Review 2001/2002, Volume 10, 2001, page
85. For a brief discussion on the centrality and historical importance of critical apologetics
in general, refer to Jack McLean’s succinct Foreword in Making the Crooked Straight, A
Contribution to Bahá’í Apologetics, by Udo Schaefer et.al., Oxford, George Ronald, 2000,
pp xiii.
14.	 	 The material needed to understand the meaning of events must be sought “… in the
depths of the workaday world and its men and women, because it is only there that one
can grasp what is unique, what is animated by inner forces, and what, in both a more
concrete and a more profound sense, is universally valid…” Erich Auerbach, Mimesis,
Princeton, UP, 1953, page 391.
15.	 	 Robert Weinberg, Compilation: Writers and Writing, published in The Bahá’í Studies
Review 2001/2002, Volume 10, 2001, page 171.
16.	 	 For a complete discussion refer to the compilation: EXTRACTS FROM THE WRITINGS
OF BAHÁ’U’LLÁH AND ‘ABDU’L-BAHÁ AND FROM THE LETTERS OF SHOGHI EF­
FENDI AND THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE ON SCHOLARSHIP, prepared by
the Research Department of the Universal House of Justice, February 1995, available from
http://reference.bahai.org/en/t/c/SCH/

The Last Refuge: Part 1
17.	 	 Curiously enough, comparative politics to this day continues to be but variations of the
traditional approach to political science which focuses on types of regimes, proposed
originally by Aristotle in the fourth century B.C. with his three pairs or ‘continuums’ of gov­
ernment, namely, monarch-tyranny, aristocracy-oligarchy, and politeia-democracy. Within
each pair, Aristotle sub-divided it further, monarchy, for instance, was sub-divided into five
distinct types and so on. See, S. E. Finer’s, Comparative Government, Pelican Books, 1974,
page 39. (Montesquieu and Tocqueville are famous adherents of this approach). Shoghi
Effendi acknowledges our debt to Aristotle’s unchallenged source of political organizations
when he refers to Aristotle’s ‘standard types of government’ in his World Order letters.
See, Shoghi Effendi, WOB, Wilmette, US BPT, 1991, page 85.
18.	 	 Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, Wilmette, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1955, page 153.
19.	 	 Ibid, Page 152
20.	 Ibid, page 51.
21.	 	 Ibid.
22.	 The Universal House of Justice, in a letter dated April 24th, 1972, and published in Messag­
es from the Universal House of Justice 1963–1986 — The Third Epoch of the Formative Age,
compiled by Geoffrey W. Marks, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, 1996, page 217.
23.	 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, Wilmette, Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1970, page 326.
24.	 Shoghi Effendi, op.cit. page 146.
25.	 For a discussion on the limits of comparative research, see the paper by Hans Keman
entitled, Comparing political systems: Towards positive theory development, published
in 2006 and available in pdf from Working Papers Political Science No. 2006/01, De­
partment of Political Science, Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam.
26.	 Comparing the Bahá’í experience with that of other forms of government is important as it
deepens our understanding of our community but also permits us to see the wider range
of alternatives. It illuminates the virtues of our own institutional life and by taking us be­
yond our familiar arrangements and assumptions, comparative analysis helps expand our
awareness of the potentials. But this must be done by dropping our intellectual guard and
fully absorbing the advice of Shoghi Effendi, who, referring to the Charter of Bahá’u’lláh’s
New World Order, writes: “We must trust to time and the guidance of God’s Universal
House of Justice to obtain a clearer and fuller understanding of [the] provisions and
implications [of the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá]”, quoted in Bahá’í Administration,
page 62.
27.	 Gaetano Mosca, quoted in S.E. Finer, Comparative Government, London, Pelican, 1974
page 33.
28.	 Bahá’í vision is revolutionary: “Mankind’s ordered life hath been revolutionized through the
agency of this unique, this wondrous System — the like of which mortal eyes have never
witnessed.” Bahá’u’lláh, Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh, page 119. The revolutionary aspect
of Bahá’í thought is further emphasized by the remarks of a noted Bahá’í physicist and
former member of the Universal House of Justice: “The Bahá’í concept of social change
[sees] the transformation of human society as a result of a very complex set of interac­
tions between profound changes that have to occur within the individual and deliberate

Shahbaz Fatheazam
attempts at changing the structure of society. Moreover, the change of social structures is
not understood as mere political change, it involves total change in all structures, mental,
cultural, economic, and social, including a complete change in the very concept of political
leadership and power.” [See Farzam Arbab, The Process of Social Transformation, pub­
lished in The Bahá’í Faith and Marxism, pages 9–10, Ottawa: Bahá’í Studies Publications,
1987]. Yet, in the Bahá’í writings, reference to the organic nature and development of
Bahá’í institutions, of ‘an organic change in the structure of present-day society’ as well as
the Faith itself ‘as an ever-growing organism’ is also very clear and provides the opposite
notion, that of evolutionary growth, the idea that change occurs naturally over successive
generations and with it a level of increasing diversity and unequalled complexity in human
organization as the process of maturity unfolds. It is not the antagonism of revolution and
evolution, however, which should be the focus of our attention but to better understand
their coexistence and relationship as a natural trajectory, as in dynamical systems. In gen­
eral evolution theory, (E. Laszlo, 1987), the notion of ‘bifurcations’ are precisely such revolu­
tionary transformations in the development of society. “The reins of power change hands,
systems of law and order are overthrown, and new movements and ideas surface and gain
momentum. When order is reestablished, the chaos of transformation gives way to a new
era of comparative stability. Societal bifurcations can be smooth and continuous, explosive
and catastrophic, or abrupt and entirely unforeseeable.” [ See A. Laszlo and S. Krippner,
Systems Theories: Their Origins, Foundations, and Development, Published in: J.S. Jordan
(Ed.), Systems Theories and A Priori Aspects of Perception. Amsterdam: Elsevier Science,
1998, Chapter 3]. Profound transformation, then, underlies the evolutionary process.
The theory further provides a conceptual foundation for evolutionary consciousness,
action, and ethics which move us toward strategies by which to guide the sustainable
development of human communities. “So profound a transformation of society should
also be viewed as the exigency of an underlying evolutionary process at a time when the
principles of oneness, of interconnectedness, and of justice are imposing themselves on
the collective consciousness of humanity.” [Farzam Arbab, Introduction, published in The
Lab, the Temple, and the Market: Reflections at the Intersection of Science, Religion, and
Development, Ed. by Sharon Harper, International Development Research Centre (IDRC),
Ottawa, 2000, page 2]. In the Bahá’í community, we typically see community-building of
an appreciably slower rhythm but where momentums of growth are clear once the nature
of the process is grasped. “This Administrative Order is the nucleus and pattern of the
World Order adumbrated by Bahá’u’lláh. In the course of its divinely propelled organic
growth its institutions will expand, putting forth auxiliary branches and developing subor­
dinate agencies, multiplying their activities and diversifying their functions, in consonance
with the principles and purposes revealed by Bahá’u’lláh for the progress of the human
race.” The Universal House of Justice, The Constitution of the Universal House of Justice,
Haifa, Bahai World Centre, 1972, page 8. Is not theoretically understanding the origin and
change of organically created social and political structures the fundamental question any
theorist of social sciences should aim to resolve?
29.	 While these words were written just after World War II by a University English Professor
(Richard M. Weaver in his classic book Ideas Have Consequences, University of Chicago
Press, reprinted in 1984, page 2), a University Professor of Government (Samuel P. Hunting­
don) just after the Cold War gave enduring form to the idea that people’s cultural and
religious identities, and not just political ideology, will be the primary source of conflict

The Last Refuge: Part 1
in the world in his book The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order,
Touchstone Books, New edition (1998). More recently, in an interview with the Brazilian
weekly newsmagazine, Época, (Issue # 749, September 24th, 2012 edition, page 118) best­
selling author Salman Rushdie, himself the centerpiece or rhetorical figure of such deeply
embedded religious divide, albeit on a very small and personalized scale (his controversial
novel, The Satanic Verses, first published in 1988 by Viking Penguin, was considered blas­
phemous by Muslims and shortly after, in 1989, he was issued the death warrant or fatwa
by Iran’s religious leader Ruhollah Khomeini) agonizes over the fact that there does not
seem to be a solution to the “shock of world visions”, as he puts it, aside from recourse to
the “basic principles of the rule of law and equality”.
30.	 Or is it the converse, with certain past political, maybe even unscrupulous, maxims or
rules of thumb have subconsciously created whole worlds which we have come to con­
sider as fixed. The portrayals and histrionic phrases of a certain controversial Florentine
patriot of the Renaissance, Machiavelli, for example, are still respected and repeated to
this day. His belief that conflicts can only be controlled by both persuasion and force;
or that force and guile must be met with force and guile; or his cant, “Everyone sees
what you appear to be, few experience what you really are” which continues to be the
protective badge of dissimulation we see in the shifting (and shifty) politics of today; and
still other evil things that we are exhorted to do but which are not condonable in terms of
common morality.
31.	The parallel with this doctrine in political philosophy is that society is figured principally
as a social organism i.e. the will of a collective body as distinguished from the will of any
particular individual or group. Where the two part ways is that the Bahá’í approach does
not ignore the importance of culture, heritage, and traditions to the identity of these
citizens or members — a common critique in the General Will as formulated by Rousseau,
for example.
32.	 The Constitution of the Universal House of Justice, Haifa, Bahá’í World Centre, 1972, page 5.
33.	 Count Lev Nikolaevich Tolstoy, War and Peace, Epilogue, Part 2, Chapter I, quoted in
Isaiah Berlin, The Hedgehog and the Fox, An Anthology of Essays, FSG, New York, 1997,
page 453.

Shahbaz Fatheazam
‘Shepherds unto His sheep’1
A general description of Bahá’í Administrative Order and its features to be
addressed in the remaining sections and endnotes are important facts of
historical authenticity but to understand them is to understand the men
and women that are part of it; not just to establish facts and give causal
explanations for them, but to examine what a situation meant to those
involved in it, what their outlook is, by what rules they are guided, what
‘absolute presuppositions’ (as Collingwood invented) were entailed in what
they said or did. This kind of knowledge is not knowledge of facts or logical
truths; nor the knowledge of how to do things; nor even the knowledge
provided by faith in divine revelation, in which we as Bahá’ís profess belief.
It is more like knowledge we claim of a friend, of his or her character, of
ways of thought or action, the intuitive sense of personalities and feelings.
Unless we are able to ‘enter into’ the minds and situations of the past,
such history will remain a dead collection of objects in a museum. It has
been individuals, men and women, who have made our Bahá’í world — its
community, its embryonic civilization, its institutions — not out of ‘whole
cloth’, as Marx was to point out, or infinitely malleable material but out of
the external, corporeal world of human effort, of physical and psychical
constitution, of the story of human activity, of what Bahá’ís did and thought
and suffered in these fifty years since the birth of the Universal House of
Justice and who continue to exert their influence.2

The Last Refuge: Part 1
Institutions, in their early years, as in the human child, are little indication
of their later personality. Methods and organization become more stable,
operations renewed, the process of maturation intensifies and stability
and change occur as identity and experience grow. But while maturation is
intrinsically determined and typically only moves forward, as in biological
growth, development, on the other hand, involves a myriad of skills and
milestones that may move forward but also may regress. Development of
a child, unlike maturation, involves (and sometimes depends on) significant
interactions with the environment and other people and inherent traits and
social influence, both, interact with equal importance to develop person­
ality. Similarly, the impact of the outside world on the development of the
Universal House of Justice cannot be underestimated. “And as the Bahá’í
Faith permeates the masses of the peoples of East and West, and its truth
is embraced by the majority of the peoples of a number of the Sovereign
States of the world, will the Universal House of Justice attain the plenitude
of its power, and exercise, as the supreme organ of the Bahá’í Common­
wealth, all the rights, the duties, and responsibilities incumbent upon the
world’s future super-state.”3
The environment, society, the interaction of people, both within institutions
and outside of them, by believer and disbeliever alike, have a powerful,
immeasurable effect on the personality of institutions. It is to this human
element we must now turn. We are not so bold as to vindicate Vico’s
proposition that one knows fully only what one has oneself made but our
effort must be seen as an attempt by an outsider leading to the door that
leads into the inside, and who tries not to fall over the imponderable gulf
between what has been made and constructed and what God has designed
and intended for this unique institution. To better understand our subject
is to understand the members of the House of Justice; after all, the plausi­
bility of Bahá’í administration rests upon the possibility of having exemplary
members and much of the function of institutions springs from the way they
are enacted. (“The strength and progress of the Bahá’í Community depend
upon the election of pure, faithful and active souls....”)4. Moreover, loyalty

Shahbaz Fatheazam
and talent are important in organizing Bahá’í administration and in explain­
ing institutional coherence. Focusing on these lives, therefore, is entirely
relevant although the Bahá’í community is educated to know that there are
today no leaders in the sense of individual authority. The leader principle
cedes to the collegial principle as the bedrock of Bahá’í Administration.5
The most striking impression one has of the members of the Universal House
of Justice, the one that remains, is how human imperfection is preserved
and displayed on the public stage. No attempt is ever made here to boast
moral attributes or to imitate virtue. Affectations of sanctity, pretense
to mysticism, may be the favourite means of advertisement in the sham
spirituality of the medieval cloister or of modern creeds but in this unique
membership human virtue is compressed, not in the flourishing company
of ‘wit or worth’ but in another pair of attributes, of the vulnerable and
forgotten kind — humility and unconditional love, a love given freely and
forgivingly, ‘seventy times seven’.6
It is flaws, not hypocrisy, that triumph and rather than cast a shade on the
faith they profess, such shortcomings are the particular terms of endear­
ment of these men of the House of Justice. There is no pomp or special
robe to enhance ceremonial rank, no headdress to announce protocol, no
artificial redolence to flatter personal connection, no kissing of hands, no
booming sermon behind the pulpit, no ornamental embroidery to drape
ecclesiastical superintendency, no braying of canticles by rote.7 In their
presence, the air of mutual satisfaction is non-existent, no false estimates
of character to betray ambition, no vestige of supremacy. The legitimacy of
these members does not depend on their title of utility but on a position
advocated by God, resting on the permanent assurance of Bahá’u’lláh in
His Tablets that “God will verily inspire them with whatsoever He willeth…”.8
Such an agreeable mandate, such a working climate of assurance and
serenity never predisposes these, ‘the recipients of the Divine guidance’,
to intemperate enjoyment of tranquility much less, over-confidence in a
certain future ­— a future, alas, which they themselves acknowledged once

The Last Refuge: Part 1
as ‘shrouded in mystery’.9 Of these men, these sons, we may say, swimming
‘in the same stream as Heaven above and Earth below‘, neither pragmatism
nor the voice of oracles guide them but the authority of divine law and
articles of faith. They are not public teachers of rhetoric but private pupils
of devotion pursuing truth and practicing virtue; not invulnerable heroes
but reluctant notables mindful of the innocence of human error, reared in
an edifice where “God’s purpose, wisdom, universal truths, mysteries and
realities of the Kingdom…shall gradually be revealed and made manifest.”10
Here exists a fascinating, daily, array of contrasts where the imperial
routinely mingles with the democratic, peremptory rule resting perfectly
on the shoulders of surrendering souls; formality regularly revising itself
with informality, and where impersonal authority is indissoluble from
personal affection, a father’s sobriety matched by a mother’s compassion,
stateliness framed in lowliness. They do the job of poets by touching “…[t]
he point of intersection of the timeless/With time…”11, but also the job of
workmen, sweeping “dead thoughts ... like withered leaves, to quicken a
new birth”.12 No engines or trades or fields, however, in which to find or test
meaning in their work, recognized as much for the heroic and legendary
as for the small, and contemporary. (The early days of the existence of
the House of Justice were intense with a level of detail which stuns for its
banality, as depicted in this entry of Ian Semple’s diary: “On 18th June, 1963,
the House of Justice authorized the ordering of 40 bags of peat and ap­
proximately 250 pounds of bone meal from Italy for the gardens.”)13 We see
men, brethren, exercising cardinal duties in a supreme institution supplied
with majesty and holiness but themselves stripped of any personal honor,
hierarchy, or sanctity. Each forgets himself and recalls himself. A member
of the House of Justice is neither number nor order; neither first nor last;
neither greatness nor smallness; neither equality nor inequality; neither
similarity nor dissimilarity.14 Nine men, “as nine brothers…[who] deeply love
one another… ”15, a band of officers “cemented by the immediate intense
feeling of joy and unity that [bind them] together”16.

Shahbaz Fatheazam
A sequestered life, socially speaking, awaits these individuals after their
election, with no levity of discourse and all scrutiny and gaze: from every
eye they wish to hide, yet in every eye they dwell. Their human character,
however, mercifully preserves them to build the most pleasurable, the most
agreeable, the most useful and the most respectable of human qualifica­
tions. They teach us that by fulfilling the law, they are loosened from its
thunder and allowed to smile in its gentle rain revealing to those closest to
them that their deeds are the fruits of love and their love the fruits of faith.
We are harbored from their text-studying, their hard tasking, the weariness
of anxiety, the monotony of epistolary correspondence, the drudgery of
sundry, operational decision-making, the stocktaking of communities, and
all we are allowed to see in the functioning of this “great institution of the
planet”17 is a metaphor of dignity in prose, all the more striking for the human
toll borne in such sacrificial service making us to gasp, in one voice, “….how
valuable these nine members are in our eyes as Bahá’ís.”18 It would not be
wrong to say that these men lay their heads on stone, and sleep waking,
fixing “… their gaze by day and by night…”19 unable to flee the business
of the world or “…the heavy burden of work resting upon members…”.20
Self-sacrifice is their proper end. Our House of Justice is their home of
suffering. If we were to point to the one supreme difficulty affecting all
members it would be this: the mind, this engine of contemplation, is never
lulled to rest from the agitation of the world which distresses and tries
the power of concentration to the extreme, burdening them terribly with
ever-present, oppressive tasks. Their cry is compelling: ”Have pity on me,
have pity on me…because the hand of our Lord has touched me!”21
This unique office emancipates the members of the House from holding any
opinion of their own rectitude or from trading personifications of perfec­
tion or pitching penitence. This is because the repercussion of their solemn
obligation exercises them in the habits of humility, meekness, and patience
with nothing to show other than the visible proof that in God’s sight “the
deede is good because of the man and not the man because of his deede.”22
Theirs is not to “… justifie the wayes of God to men”23 but to pave the way of

The Last Refuge: Part 1
man to God, thrown into enormous prominence by the administrative order
they lead. Of them we can say they are contemplative in action, sensitive
to the contours of their time, their work divided only into the good and
better. These Trustees “… enquire into the conditions of their subjects
and acquaint themselves with the affairs and activities of the divers com­
munities in their dominions.”24 Their decisions draws the conciliatory line
connecting the affairs of the world to the engagements of religious belief,
bringing an ever-increasing level of sophistication to discourse without
ever itself being self-assured or uncompromising, revealing the extraor­
dinary act of a Divinity who chose to work through regular men, ancilla
domini, with no appellation. No halo, the aureole of divinity, hangs above
the heads of these “Ministers”25 , these “daysprings of authority”26, these
chosen workmen for God, “the salt of the earth”27 yet they are luminous; no
flames emanating from their backs yet they are radiant; not to be measured
but admired, these men are not heavenly archetypes of being yet are our
guardian angels, minister and assistant, both. They are purified and do
the purifying, receive illumination as well as cause it, are to be perfected
but also to bring about perfection. These House members have the same
thought, the same word, the same action in meditating the abode of
hymns. Holy immortals they are not but nine lamps illuminating paths to a
universal liturgy which celebrates everything in the Cause but themselves.
“Unworthy instruments”28 in their human composition, perhaps, but whose
effective range of influence is formidable, sounding the trumpet to make
the listening shores rebound and themselves becoming strings of joy. Such
are my perceptions but infinitely more worthwhile is to hear directly from
one who had the inestimable honor of serving the longest, and to thank
him for revealing these blameless and pure thoughts encased in a mind of
private wonder and elementary apprehension:
“Hushmand Fatheazam returned from a visit to England on 29th January
1967, bringing to nine the number of members present in the Holy Land. I
note a comment in my diary at that time which I think is important. I wonder
if this first Universal House of Justice is especially blessed, or if this love

Shahbaz Fatheazam
and harmony among the members will always continue? In a sense it has
been a little like a love affair. The first incomparable days and months when
we were all overwhelmed and were bound together in an ecstatic affection,
ignorant though most of us were of one another’s natures, helplessly
relying on the guidance of God for what the future would reveal. Now, after
nearly four years [1967] we all know one another so much better, both our
virtues and capacities and our faults and shortcomings. The early rapture
only recurs from time to time, but its place has been taken by a profound
respect and love for one another — each one knowing the others and
knowing the others know him — yet for all our human frailties, for all our
bygone strongly held disagreements in consultations — no barrier has been
raised between any two of us. I can see, as I observe my fellow-members,
how they are growing in spiritual stature, understanding and breadth of
vision; and I know how I myself have grown and how I am even now aware
of so many faults of which I must rid myself. Time and again we stumble,
but each time we pick ourselves up and strive once more to be worthy of
the high calling which our fellow believers have thrust upon us. Now, thirty
years since I wrote those words, I can testify that the same spirit still exists,
and has persisted through all the vicissitudes and changes of membership
which those years have seen. ”29
It is the genius of Bahá’u’lláh’s Order that genuine humility of its serving
administrators atones for the courtliness and authority of its institutions
and in this legalistic landscape of rule and order, rank and hierarchy, there
is none to seek favour, to celebrate fame or to protect personal memory.30
“[A]n ethos of loving service’, we are always reminded, ‘pervades Bahá’í
institutional identity.”31
The idea of hierarchy, however, exists in the Bahá’í Faith and supports the
vision of order in the universe and within it objective degrees of value.
Some or even every form of being — transcendent, intelligible, and material
— have a particular position and an appropriate function, a great chain of
being with its own particular range of references.32 Bahá’u’lláh supports the

The Last Refuge: Part 1
idea that the universe does not subsist by any other reason than because a
great order of difference conserves it:
“And amongst the realms of unity is the unity of rank and station. It redoun­
deth to the exaltation of the Cause, glorifying it among all peoples”.33
But hierarchy is not lordship nor is thearchy (the rule of God) mediated
through power or order, nor clerus or secular offices. Lower orders do not
come to union with God because some blessed with instant and intuitive
illumination reveal what is obscure to them. The medieval (defunct) idea
that multitudes should be so well arranged so that higher beings use in­
termediate beings to bring lower beings to union with God is non-existent.
In the Administrative Order conceived by Bahá’u’lláh, together with the
authority vested in elected corporate bodies (national, regional and local)
to make decisions, binding on the community is the spiritual, moral and
intellectual influence that the Administrative Order must exert on both the
lives of believers and the work of the Faith’s institutions. This influence
acquires a special character through the services performed by individuals
who are appointed to high rank and charged with functions relating to the
protection and propagation of the Faith.34 In practical terms, these duties
are now carried out by the Continental Counsellors who receive their
guidance from the International Teaching Centre, ‘an institution whose
mandate is global and which functions in close proximity to the Universal
House of Justice’. Those appointed or elected to institutions capable of
directing the thrust of efforts exerted by the generality of believers, be
these in the branches of the ‘learned’ or ‘rulers’, are always susceptible to
tests of character because of our very human temptation to venerate of­
ficeholders (or ourselves), at the risk of causing a deprivation displeasing to
Bahá’u’lláh Himself: “Ever since the seeking of preference and distinction
came into play, the world hath been laid waste. It hath become desolate.”35
It is our natural tendency as human beings to categorize people in certain
groupings with exaggerated significance in our imaginations. We tend to

Shahbaz Fatheazam
think that Bahá’ís in official positions are fundamentally different. Personali­
ty and character differences not inevitably are associated with nominations
to Bahá’í administrative posts. This overly strong and natural tendency to
categorize people in certain occupations and positions is related to what
psychologists have dubbed ‘the fundamental attribution error’.36 While
this theory is developed in the study of professions (why some become
bankers, others teachers, still others artists and so on), it does not mitigate
the fact, nor lose argumentative force in our special context, that we tend
to attribute the behavior of others to personality differences far more
than warranted. Aside from distorting the true nature of the individual at
the centre of attention, such proclivity may actually engender a sense of
envy.37 Another conspicuous (more positive) and pervasive human impulse,
however, may be more pertinent and more germane to Bahá’í community —
after all, the decisive characteristic in Bahá’í administration is the essential
spirituality with which institutions are imbued (“…institutions…can become
really effective only when our inner spiritual life has been perfected and
transformed.”).38 There is an enormous literature in modern psychology
confirming the importance of self-esteem but in mature people the desire
for praise is transformed into a desire for praiseworthiness which cannot be
interpreted as self-adulation or egocentrism. Adam Smith, more commonly
associated with the impulse of self-interest for his free-market theories,
writes this surprising observation in his first book, The Theory of Moral
Sentiments (1759):
“The desire of the approbation and esteem of those we live with, which
is of such importance to our happiness, cannot be fully and entirely
contented but by rendering ourselves the just and proper objects of those
sentiments, and by adjusting our own character and conduct according to
those measures and rules by which esteem and approbation are naturally
bestowed. We are pleased not only with praise, but with having done what
is praiseworthy.”39

The Last Refuge: Part 1
This desire for praise was one to which ‘Abdu’l-Bahá responded with
profuse readiness given His prodigious and varied correspondence marked
by intimacy, warmth, forbearance and, of course, praise, all exploited by His
sin-covering eye.40
There can only be one consequence when living in the holy and venerated
grounds of Haifa and Akka — that of a clear and gradual transmutation in
one’s acquired character, drawn frantically to others with similar holy breath.41
We’ve no regards for words or language
We look for spirit and behavior
We see the heart and if that’s humble, ignore the words ….
Jalâl al-Din Rumi, Poem 29
These sacred hubs inevitably change our outlook on life and its expecta­
tions, if for no other reason than for geographically nesting in the bosom of
God since the beginning of time — a historical continuity which gives Haifa
its historical individuality and magical qualities:
“This mountain is a holy mountain: it has always been sanctified. The
prophets have always loved it. Christ has trodden on its path; Elijah lived
upon it. The wind is sweet on it, the flowers are many, the view is wonderful.
When you come up the mountain many fragrances reach you; the pure air
gladdens you; the beauty refreshes you. So the mind is made single, the
thoughts are purified; the spirit turns to God.”42
This unique neighborhood with no bounds to its spiritual jurisdiction
threatens to bring the best in us, its giant, ionic pillars always reaching
to the sky, the sky representing the birds, flight yielding the all-important
auspices. Our ego is erased to release the consecrated self-similar in effect
to the transfigured souls who were sanctioned with the privilege of meeting
Bahá’u’lláh, `Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi in their day.43 Independent
of the individual’s function, high or low, formal or informal, institutional

Shahbaz Fatheazam
or otherwise, pilgrimage (or looking Haifaward), launch us on a journey of
conversion with lasting effects, most especially humility in our intellectu­
al endeavours. But this kind of humility can be a screen if we use it as a
reason for not serving. A distinguished American Bahá’í reminds us that “…
the dividing line is not how much we know — not how many books we have
studied — but whether we passed from inaction to action, because we are
pledged to serve, and ‘Abdu’l-Baha has pledged to serve us if we serve
Him.”44 We are qualified to serve if we serve. The Bahá’í World Centre,
this modern denomination of a once palm-fringed setting of age-old twin
metropolis of Acre and Haifa, is an inviting gravity of invisible energy which
while it draws us to itself, to the insulating power of its unique context, also
pushes our galaxy of mental formations away from every other, at the one
and the same time protecting us from any sudden intrusion of irrelevant
sense, but also permeating each corner of our cluttered and confused
minds to an objective several hundred orders of magnitude larger and
where no laws of physics can single out as special or understandable — a
“just so” story which is as encompassing as it is enchanting and which can
only be interpreted by our own individual psyche, each to him or herself.
Such an extraordinary proposal, we are warned, is not to be approached
with healthy skepticism but to teach ourselves “the science of the love
of God”45 — a divine argument which can be given the definition of man
living and choosing freely in accordance with his reason and volition but
saddled with the properties of a powerful spiritual reality, “a sign of God”46,
the soul, enslaved to an ineffable Reality, and drawn to “Brides of inner
meaning”47. Bathed in spiritual light, one always leaves Haifa, this principate
of service, this storehouse of mysteries, never priggishly self-assured about
the imponderables of the soul. The account that follows seems to say that
everything that happens to our leaders in this quarter of the world whether
produced in action or word, springs from both heaven and earth. Any and
all separation of powers, human or divine, outward or inward, material or
spiritual, is to be repudiated.

The Last Refuge: Part 1
“It was the custom of Shoghi Effendi to walk on Mount Carmel, and at times
he invited the Persian men believers to walk with him. They would walk a
few paces behind him, out of respect. Ali-Kuli Khan was a member of one of
these groups of men, and at one point Shoghi Effendi stopped, and turned
to the men, and said, “Although I am Abdu’l-Baha’s successor, I am not His
equal. His station is far greater than my own.” Then he turned, and continued
walking. Ali-Kuli Khan burst into tears. When he finished weeping, one of his
fellow pilgrims asked him, “What Shoghi Effendi said was very beautiful, but
why did it have such an effect on you?” Ali-Kuli Khan answered, “Many years
ago, I was here on Pilgrimage during the days of Abdu’l-Baha. One day I was
walking with Him on the slopes of Mount Carmel, and He stopped, at that
very same spot, and turned to me and said, “Although I am the Successor
to Baha’u’llah, I am not His equal. His station is far, far greater than My own.”
And of course, as we were walking behind the beloved Guardian, I recalled
the sweetness of that moment. And then I saw that we were approaching
that spot where the Master had spoken, and to my astonishment, Shoghi
Effendi stopped, and spoke at that same spot. And when he said what he
did, then I understood the greatness of this Cause.”48
NOTES
1.	  	 One of the many appellations given to the occupants of the Supreme Baytu’l-’Adl (Universal
House of Justice) as in this passage: “O ye Men of Justice! Be ye in the realm of God
shepherds unto His sheep and guard them from the ravening wolves that have appeared
in disguise, even as ye would guard your own sons. Thus exhorteth you the Counsellor, the
Faithful. (The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, The Most Holy Book, Haifa: Bahá’í World Centre, 1992, p. 38)
2.	  	 There would be many a telling story of what was going through the minds of the 288 del­
egates, a third of whom women, who had assembled at the home of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Haifa,
that Sunday morning, the first day of Ridvan, April 21, 1963, to cast their ballots (together
with the other 216 absentee ballots) for the election of the first historic Universal House
of Justice. All fifty-six National Assemblies (NSA) participated in the election according
to the official report concluded by the Hands of the Cause and where eighteen tellers
appointed by the Hands, themselves members of NSAs, had tabulated the ballots. These
delegates must have been of a special self-awareness for having been direct participants
in the erection of such an ‘…august body to whom all believers must turn’, many of whom
had remained until the very last lap on the road that finally led to the completion of the
Beloved Guardian’s Ten Year Holy Crusade and to total triumph; a magical period, to be
sure, and a spur to heroes and heroines, lovers of uncorrupted hearts, men and women

Shahbaz Fatheazam
of action, who took to the helm in the greatest of storms. It was in the Convention session
on the following day, Monday, April 22nd, held at Beth Harofe Auditorium, 2 Wingate
Avenue, Haifa, where the result of the names of the nine Bahá’ís with the highest number
of votes (in descending order) was announced by the Chief Teller, Ernest Gregory, then
a member of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the British Isles: Charles
Wolcott, ‘Ali Nakhjavani, H. Borrah Kavelin, Ian C. Semple, Lutfu’llah Hakim, David Hofman,
Hugh E. Chance, Amoz E. Gibson, and Hushmand Fatheazam. Curiously, an Internet
site which calculates the days of the week on which past dates fall, in its Historical
Events section, announces only one entry for April 21st, 1963: “The Universal House of
Justice of the Bahá’í Faith is elected for the first time.” See http://www.dayoftheweek.
org/?m=April&d=21&y=1963&go=Go And, as if to prolong our infatuation with the machina­
tions of the calendar, the recent 11th International Convention in Haifa opened its first day
Ridvan celebrations on April 21st, 2013, with 1,080 delegates present (from a total of 1,413
— three times the total of delegates in the first election) also on a Sunday, exactly as it was
50 years ago!
3.	 	 Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, Wilmette, BPT, 1991, page 5. A simple prag­
matic approach is always helpful in understanding the development and organizational
strengthening of any institution. In early May, 1963, the House of Justice appointed (1) the
Secretariat, (2) the Department of Finance, (3) the Legal Department (which included mat­
ters affecting property and relations with the Government), (4) the Holy Places Depart­
ment, and (5) the Research Department with all members, with the exception of Lotfullah
Hakim who only served on the Research Department, sharing more than one function.
During this time, the entire Bahá’í staff numbered two people: an English-speaking secre­
tary Ms. Marion Michaeloff and Ms. Missagh Tahmassebi for the Persian section. Today
(as of January 2014), the number of full-time volunteer staff exceeds 600, incorporating
80 nationalities, including youth between the ages of 18 and 30, distributed among these
original departments created by the House plus an additional Department of Library
and Archival Services — divided into an Archives Office, responsible for the preservation,
arrangement, and description of the Bahá’í authoritative texts; a Conservation Office,
responsible for preserving the Bahá’í sacred writings and relics, as well as other historic
documents and artifacts; and the Bahá’í World Center Library. Offices responsible for
statistical analysis and for audiovisual resources, offices responsible for worldwide issues
related to socioeconomic development and the environment, offices concerned with the
management of funds, including such functions as handling contributions, accounting, pur­
chasing, disbursements, and cost analysis, offices that perform human resource functions
— meeting personnel, accommodation, and health needs, as well as kitchen services and
offices related to data processing, telecommunications, and administrative development.
4.	 	 Shoghi Effendi, in a letter in Persian, April 9, 1932, quoted in Lights of Guidance, # 35, page 10.
5.		 Although our focus is on the Universal House of Justice, we must be reminded that Shoghi
Effendi repeatedly stressed the inseparability of the twin institutions of the Guardianship
and the Universal House of Justice and their functioning together. The absence of a
living Guardian does not logically entail that the Universal House of Justice is ‘unable to
function’. “During the whole thirty-six years of his Guardianship Shoghi Effendi functioned
without the Universal House of Justice. Now the Universal House of Justice must function
without the Guardian, but the principle of inseparability remains.” [Letter of the Universal

The Last Refuge: Part 1
House of Justice, May 27th, 1966, WOG, Messages 82–84] This principle of inseparability is
paramount. In the Bahá’í Faith there are two centers of authority: one is the Book with its
Interpreter, for ‘in reality the Interpreter (‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Efendi) …is an extension
of that center which is the Word itself’ [Letter of the Universal House of Justice to an indi­
vidual, December 7th, 1969, quoted in Messages 42]; and the other is the Universal House
of Justice ‘guided by God to decide on whatever is not explicitly revealed in the Book’
[ibid]. No misunderstanding can exist between these two spheres of authoritative inter­
pretation and subsidiary legislation — the former a function of the Guardianship and the
latter, legislative ability, the domain of the House of Justice. The fact there can only exist
one ‘Head of the Faith’ does not annul the principle of inseparability. In the absence of the
Guardian, the Universal House of Justice is now, in addition to being the highest legislative
body of the Faith, the “apex” of the Bahá’í Administrative Order, also the body to which all
must turn, and the sole infallibly guided institution and the Bahá’í Faith’s center of author­
ity. It must do everything within its power to ensure the performance of all those funda­
mental functions which it shares with a now deceased Guardian, and which the previous
Head of the Faith discharged such as, “…the formulation of future worldwide teaching
plans, the conduct of the administrative affairs of the Faith, and the guidance, organization,
and unification of the affairs of the Cause throughout the world.” [Letter of the Universal
House of Justice, May 27th, 1966, WOG, Messages 82–84] The House of Justice“…must
make provision for the proper discharge…of the functions of protection and propagation…;
it must, in the absence of the Guardian, receive and disburse the Huququ’llah…” [ibid]
as the Marja-i-Amr. or, the focal point of authority. But the absence of a Guardian cannot
imply that “all that was written about the Guardianship and its position in the Bahá’í World
Order is a dead letter and was unimportant.” [ibid] In fulfilling its legislative function, the
Universal House of Justice has a substantial body of authoritative interpretation to which
it may turn. “Shoghi Effendi, during the thirty-six years of his Guardianship, has already
made innumerable such definitions…a careful study of the Writings and interpretations on
any subject on which the House of Justice proposes to legislate always precedes its act of
legislation….the Universal House of Justice, itself assured of Divine guidance, is well aware
of the absence of the Guardian and will approach all matters of legislation only when cer­
tain of its sphere of jurisdiction…which the Guardian has confidently described as “clearly
defined.” [ibid]
6.	 	 An offhand reference to Jesus’ admonishment to Apostle Peter (Matthew 18:22) for no
individual to put a limit ever on the number of times a wrongdoer must be forgiven ahead
of perdition; essentially, to forgive and to forget. The Master gave a useful, simple advice
to Stanwood Cobb during his first visit to Akká, in February 1908: to “…endure people
even when they are unendurable”.
7.	  	 This is evidently referring to the fact that there is no class of ecclesiastics or clergy in the
Bahá’í Faith. But we are also touching on a thorny theme, namely, the intertangled realms
of ecclesiastical and political activity which haunts religious communities to this day,
despite the efforts of self-described reformers such as Martin Luther and John Calvin to
resolve the issue in the Reformation they initiated in the 16th Century. We are cognizant of
the fact that the House of Justice is “under the protecting power of Bahá’u’lláh Himself”.
But as it has also been “endowed with a political as well as a religious function, the
consummate union and blending of church and state” [‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation
of Universal Peace, Wilmette, BPT, 1982, page 455] humanity’s past and current tested

Shahbaz Fatheazam
experience with major religions in this area will always engage a skeptical attention on the
part of the non-Bahá’í public. Only time and guidance can assist us in exposing the verity
that “all affairs are committed to the care of just kings and presidents and of the Trustees
of the House of Justice.” [Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets, page 93]. How ‘all matters of State’ are to
be referred to the House of Justice, however, is a moot point and any opinion shall be ex
tempore — the most accomplished mind might feel itself exiled ‘And where the very books
as if afraid/Hurry along to some less magic shade.’
8.	 	 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 68.
9.	  	 See House of Justice Messages May 28th, 1975.
10.	 Shoghi Effendi, letter written in December 1923.
11.	 	 T.S. Eliot, The Dry Salvages, Part V,
12.	 	 A line from Ode to the West Wind, by Percy B. Shelley, written in 1819. There is implied in
this opening paragraph, a balance in the functions of the House of Justice between the
ideal and the essential, the eternal and the now, in language both measured and unmea­
sured. In this special locus of authority, Scripture is not idealized nor is it the province to
‘aestheticize’, as it were, the problems of the world as poets are wont to do. But neither
should we expect to receive exact blueprints or instruction manuals focusing so much on
the essential that poetry is taken out altogether, leaving us bodies with no spirit. When
one studies the corpus of messages emanating from the House of Justice we see that it
is trying to reach us for what’s still passionate, still unintimidated, still unquenched, while
at the same time guiding us to dismantle structures and rediscover paths in transfusions
of the future and the present — the future contained within the present, as the plant
within the seed. Such interplay of bold reason and pure inspiration in sounds and images
is what we mean by poetry bending our angle of vision whether we recognise it or not. It
is to this birth and opening of alternative thought in latest time to which the poet Shelley
constructs the metaphor that “poets are the unacknowledged legislators of the world”.
[See his prose, A Defense of Poetry, 1819).
13.	 	 Cited on page 25 of the unpublished diaries of Ian Semple, covering the years 1961–1967
in Haifa.
14.	 	 The Universal House of Justice, in one of its earliest meetings in London at the National
Hazíratu’l Quds, 27 Rutland Gate, in May 1963, immediately after the Jubilee celebrations
in Albert Hall, decided not to elect permanent officers (codified in Clause V, Paragraph 4,
Item (2) of its Constitution) and this unprecedented institutional arrangement (without ex­
ception, all other elected bodies of the Bahá’í Faith, at any level, local, regional or national,
even its precursor, the International Bahá’í Council, have had permanent officers and with
them, codified terms of reference of some influence, as dictated by constitution — the
office of secretary, for example, is akin to a ‘chief executive officer’) enduringly defends the
supreme body against any suggestion, so much as remote, that any one member, over any
other, might enjoy a measure of superiority or seniority in rank or prestige. The absence of
permanent officers on the House of Justice deliberately avoids the vestige of unwarranted
reference to personality or figurehead. In an official video done at the home of my parents
in West Vancouver, in early March 2011, yet to be released, my father mentions that the
body’s decision not to elect permanent officers, when conveyed by House member Mr.

The Last Refuge: Part 1
Wolcott to the Hands of the Cause who had gathered in the large meeting room just below,
on the first floor, ‘electrified the atmosphere’ and it was tangible the general ‘astonishment’
of these senior dignitaries of the Cause. My father goes on to say that later, he heard Mr.
Khadem, one of Hands of the Cause, say that this decision was to him the ‘first practical
proof’ that the supreme institution was ‘guided by Bahá’úlláh’. The only moment where the
principle of ‘primus inter pares’ [first among equals] may be seen to operate is immediately
after the announcement of the election results when customarily the member who has
received the highest number of votes acts as spokesman on behalf of the elected nine and
steps out to address the international delegates on the Convention floor. The very transient
and fleeting nature of this commanding, opening act, occurring only after the lapse of a full
five years, symbolizes the wish of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that ‘such service when true and unselfish,
requires no announcement, nor following…’ [Lights of Guidance, page 33, #120]. On all
other occasions, whether in official ceremonies or formal gatherings in the presence of the
Universal House of Justice, the House member who officiates is the duty of the Chairman
nominated for that week’s session beginning on the Sunday. This office and its holder is on
a rotational, weekly basis, decided from among its members and is of a purely administra­
tive and coordinating function bearing no official, public or permanent designation.
15.	 	 Alí Nakhjavani, Shoghi Effendi: The Range and Power of His Pen, Casa Editrice Bahá’í,
2006, p 42
16.	 	 Ian Semple, in an e-mail to the author, dated April 16th, 2003.
17.	 	 David S. Ruhe, in a letter written to Hushmand and Shafiqeh Fatheazam, dated December
7th, 2002.
18.	 	 Amatu’l-Bahá Ruhiyyih Khánum, transcript of her talk at the World Centre, October 10th,
1985.
19.	 	 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, page 126.
20.	 Letter of The Universal House of Justice to all National Spiritual Assemblies, dated No­
vember 5th, 2012, announcing the resignation of Dr. Farzam Arbab and Mr. Kiser Barnes.
21.	 	 The Book of Job 19:21, The Holy Bible, (King James Version). Even though God’s hand,
here, is not to chastise, as in the original story of the biblical figure, but to grant favors on
His Trustees which makes the responsibility all the more crushing.
22.	 Tyndale, as quoted in C.S. Lewis’, English Literature in the Sixteenth Century Excluding
Drama, Oxford University Press, 1944, page 187.
23.	 Milton, Paradise Lost, Book I, line 26
24.	 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Haifa: Bahá’í World
Centre, 1982, p. 129–130
25.	 Ibid, p. 27
26.	 Ibid, p. 26
27.	 	 Matthew 5:13, The Holy Bible, (King James Version).

Shahbaz Fatheazam
28.	 A phrase used by Alí Nakhjavání, in his closing remarks made to the assembly of delegates
at the 8th International Convention, immediately after the announcement of the ballot re­
sults of the election of the Universal House of Justice, held in Haifa, April 1998. See http://
www.youtube.com/watch?v=3voHjL8ki80&feature=relmfu
29.	 From the unpublished diary in typed monograph of Mr. Ian Semple, covering the period
1961 to 1967, page 53. At this juncture, the reader is invited to refer to the Appendix at the
end of this article which tabulates raw data on all twenty seven men who have served, and
are serving, the House of Justice. Since the birth of the institution in 1963, there have been
11 elections and 5 by-elections. The equivalent of three new Houses of Justice, or 27 men,
have served since the first historic body was elected in 1963. In these 50 years, two com­
plete turnovers of the House have transpired resulting in, on average, at least one new
membership occurring every two years (50/27). In just four international conventions, 1973,
1978, 1983, and 1998 was there no change in membership. The median (µ) number of years
served per member (second Table) is 13 years although with the most recent election of
the House (April, 2013), this composite average falls to just 5 years. (Precise tenure, during
this period 1963–2013, shows a bi-modal distribution, or two local maxima, with members
most frequently serving either 2 terms or 5 terms). Demographic profiling presents a
remarkably even distribution between ‘Iranian’, ‘American’ and ‘Other’ descendants — the
latter now slightly edging the predominant Iranian and American cultures which have
historically prevailed in the origin and formation of Bahá’í national/international bodies
over the decades.
30.	 Clearly, there exists a distinction between institutions and individuals who compose them
and this is very well established in the Bahá’í Writings. Elected or appointed members
to local, national or international bodies “are by no means supposed to be perfect, nor
can they be considered as being inherently superior to the rest of their fellow believers.”
[Shoghi Effendi, in a letter written on his behalf to an individual believer, November 15,
1935, Lights of Guidance, Chapter One, page 9]. This advertence annuls the principle of
the best (‘aristoi’ in Greek), as defined by eugenics, privilege or wealth, in our elected and
selected class of trustees but the idea of a qualified group of people serving, superior in
rank in the case of the institution of the learned, remains prevalent in Bahá’í polity, but
as deputies of God and not of the people. Such an arrangement gives some conformity
to the aristocratic experience but by no means purely so and very far removed from its
essential and anachronous principle of assurance about identity, to which both biological
inheritance and carefully contrived upbringing are thought to contribute. Although the
presence of rigid Bahá’í electoral procedures, such as the strict elimination of canvassing,
nomination and reference to personalities, as well as the presence of frequent elections,
develop an important spirit of voter responsibility together with a real chance for institu­
tional renewal and change, holders of administrative posts or positions of high rank can
never escape their human limitations. Self-admiration or intellectual pride can be so un­
leashed as to abase individuals “to the depths of wretchedness and degradation” as ‘Ab­
du’l-Bahá was to alert the believers on the perniciousness of pride, the greatest breach of
qualification to service. Pride, the inflated ego and contempt for others, can also be institu­
tionally oriented, glorifying the office with such zealotry as to confuse institutional wisdom
with intense self-satisfaction. This always acts as an impediment to critical and impartial
examination of the actual consequences of decisions. Both are wrong — the former for de­
filing self and the latter for its obtrusive insistence in deliberations which make impossible

The Last Refuge: Part 1
any effective way of realizing acceptable or excellent social achievements or change. In
either case, there is disguised the “lust of leadership” admonished by Bahá’u’llah as such
in His Book of Certitude, and therefore answerable to God. And when such a figure
does emerge in the community, referred to by Shoghi Effendi as “deluded, self-seeking
adventurers”, the secret indignation of a community protected by the Covenant isolates
the person, defuses the temperament, extinguishes the fever and dislodges the syndrome
before it becomes pestilential. Ambition is abomination, we are told by `Abdu’l-Bahá,
and to feign devotion is fetid (paraphrasing Shoghi Effendi’s ra’aheyeh montane’e taqlid),
yet, such character discolorations are extremely rare in Haifa precisely because of its
sanctified atmosphere of abnegation. The one notable exception was Mason Remey who,
a few months after leaving Haifa, in a “Proclamation” of April 1960 declared that he was
the “Second Guardian”, basing his ‘spurious claim’ on the fact that he had been named
president (in 1952) by Shoghi Effendi of the then newly formed International Bahá’í Council
in 1951. When he refused to renounce his attempt to thus seize control of the Cause, the
Hands of the Cause expelled him from the Faith as a violator of the Covenant some three
months later, in July 1960. The relative delay in officially announcing Mason Remey’s expul­
sion “…should not be taken as lack of confidence in the Hands’ authority to expel Cove­
nant-breakers, but as a further evidence of the continual care exercised by the Hands not
to overstep the bounds of their authority in any individual instance.” Letter written to an
individual believer on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 4th, 1997.
31.	 	 The Universal House of Justice, Message to the Conference of the Continental Boards of
Counsellors, 28 December 2010.
32.	 The hierarchical conception is prevalent in many historical works, literary or otherwise. In
C.S. Lewis’ masterful A Preface to Paradise Lost, for example, we read: “Everything except
God has some natural superior; everything except unformed matter has some natural
inferior. The goodness, happiness, and dignity of every being consists in obeying its natural
superior and ruling its natural inferiors.” Oxford, Oxford University Press, 1979, page 73.
33.	 Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in William S. Hatcher, Love, Power and Justice — The Dynamics of
Authentic Morality, Wilmette, BPT, 1998, page 24.
34.	 Such rank belonged to the Hands of the Cause of God created by Bahá’u’lláh and
formally defined and established by `Abdu’l-Bahá in His Will and Testament. Under the
direction of the Guardian, the functions of the institution of the Hands were elucidated
and elaborated and in due course, he brought into being the Auxiliary Boards for the
Protection and Propagation of the Faith to serve the work of the Hands of the Cause (but
not to assume their high rank) and to ensure that their vital influence would permeate the
Bahá’í community. “With the passing of Shoghi Effendi and the conclusion of the Universal
House of Justice that it could not legislate to make possible the appointment of additional
Hands of the Cause, it became necessary for it to devise a means of extending into the
future the critical functions of protection and propagation vested in these high-ranking
officers of the Faith. The first step in this development was taken in November 1964 when
the Universal House of Justice clarified its relationship with the institution of the Hands
by stating that “responsibility for decisions on matters of general policy affecting the insti­
tution of the Hands of the Cause, which was formerly exercised by the beloved Guardian,
now devolves upon the Universal House of Justice as the supreme and central institution
of the Faith to which all must turn.” At that time, too, the number of Auxiliary Board

Shahbaz Fatheazam
members was increased, and the Hands of the Cause in each continent were called upon
to appoint one or more members of their Auxiliary Boards to act in an executive capacity
on their behalf and in their name. In June 1968 the Continental Boards of Counsellors
were brought into being.” [Message of the Universal House of Justice on the Institution of
the Counsellors, January 29th, 2001]. The Hands of the Cause are all deceased (the last,
Dr. ‘Alí-Muhammad Varqá, the longest surviving member, having passed away September
22nd, 2007) and no other office in Bahá’í administration today has a corresponding life
appointment or emanating comparable prominence. The function of Chief Trustee of the
Huqúqu’lláh, historically embodied in one individual, was also a life appointment but since
2005 has been represented in a three-member International Board of Trustees nominated
by the Universal House of Justice and with a fixed term, formed “to guide and supervise
the work of Regional and National Boards of Trustees of Huqúqu’lláh throughout the
world.” Ridván Message 2005, the Universal House of Justice.
35.	 Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in William S. Hatcher, Love, Power and Justice — The Dynamics of
Authentic Morality, Wilmette, BPT, 1998, page 24.
36.	 Refer to the article by Lee Ross, (1977) The Intuitive Psychologist and His Shortcomings:
Distortions in the Attribution Process, Advances in Experimental Social Psychology
10:173–220.
37.	 The late widow of the Guardian, Ruhiyyih Khánum, once observed that Shoghi Effendi
contemplated appointing believers to the high rank of Hand of the Cause only towards
the very end of his life. For many years, Shoghi Effendi feared that the immaturity of
the believers would lead them not to “…accept, without jealousy and criticism, that a
fellow-believer should stand forth from the rank and file in such a high station, bathed in
such a bright light of distinction. I remember how surprised I was when he said this.” Ruhi­
yyih Khánum, in the Introduction, Ministry of the Custodians 1957–1963: An Account of the
Stewardship of the Hands of the Cause, Bahá’í World Centre, Haifa, 1992, page 3.
38.	 Shoghi Effendi, The Importance of Prayer, Meditation and the Devotional Attitude, compi­
lation by the Universal House of Justice, March 1980, p. 14
39.	 Adam Smith, quoted in Robert J. Shiller, Finance and the Good Society, Princeton, UP,
2012, p. 237.
40.	 To become familiar with the prolific literature of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, see Prof. Amin Banáni’s arti­
cle, The Writings of Abdu’l-Bahá, published in World Order Magazine, 6:1 (Fall 1970): 67–74.
For a Persian version and using a literary, linguistic approach to His penmanship see the
recorded session on The Persian Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá by Prof. Vahid Rafati, at the 2012
Chicago Conference of the Association of Friends of Persian Culture available on http://
www.youtube.com/watch?v=WYkIyq2mXEk
41.	 	 A generalization, of course, but with an element of truth as acknowledged by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
in His observation: “Among those who visited…some were recalled to life…But others, in
truth, have simply passed through; they have only taken a tour.” Quoted from Notes Post­
marked The Mountain of God, by Roger White, New Leaf Publishing, 1992, page viii. An
early dramatic example of the first kind is Roy Wilhelm in his visit to Akka in 1907, originally
just to accompany his mother but which totally transformed him to the point that on his
crest lies the salutation ‘Hand of the Cause of God’.

The Last Refuge: Part 1
42.	 Quoted in E.S. Stevens, The Mountain of God, London: Mills & Boon, 1911, frontispiece.
43.	 The New Testament alludes to such a sensation: “And besought him that they might only
touch the hem of his garment: and as many as touched were made perfectly whole.”
Matthew 14:36
44.	 Horace Holley, A Talk at the Los Angeles Bahá’í Center, October, 23, 1948 available at
http://bahaitalks.blogspot.com.br/2010/02/horace-holley-talk-at-los-angeles-bahai.html
45.	 Bahá’u’lláh, The Seven Valleys and The Four Valleys, Wilmette, BPT, 1991, Page 21.
46.	 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings From the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, Page 158
47.	 The idea of acting free within a preconceived immanent spiritual reality, conjures Sartre’s
famous phrase “L’homme est condamné à être libre” [Man is condemned to be free]; here,
however, is invoked our spiritual capacity rather than Sartre’s idea of human responsi­
bility, albeit the element of consciousness is present in both concepts. It is precisely in
consciousness where the matter of belief is to be weighed, credited, or dismissed as an
illusion, a mistake, or falsehood.
48.	 Ali Kuli Khan served briefly as ‘Abdu’l-Baha’s English-language secretary between 1899–
1901. He was appointed Iranian charge d’affaires in Washington in 1910 and later served
in various high-ranking diplomatic positions. His marriage to Boston society girl Florence
Breed (1875–1950) in 1904 was praised by ‘Abdu’l-Baha as the first marriage between East
and West, a symbol of the unity in the Baha’i Faith. This story is available from http://
bahai-storytelling.blogspot.com.br/2010/11/day-of-covenant.html

Part Two
Formal Considerations
Authority Reviewed
‘The Religious Danger’
Conclusion

The Last Refuge: Part 2
Authority Reviewed
On our most recent pilgrimage as a family (December 2009), we had the
privilege of visiting the Terraces on Mount Carmel. The exquisite detail in
every corner of this unique monument to landscape architecture is a feast
to the senses: footstone and flora intertwine with shaven marble and stone
balustrades bordered by tossing trees and bright flowerbeds year-long, en­
croached by the sound of running fountains continually purging their dross,
flanked by water ducts under the vigil of eagle statuettes. This blessed
mountainside of sight and sound has had earth removed and concrete
poured in equal volume (100.000 cubic metres each) from foot to crest a
kilometer long, but with no sense of vanquish or conquest from either soil
or mortar, explained not by their intrinsic materiality, but that both, equally,
earned their colors by lying low. Amram Mitzna, Mayor of Haifa at the time
of the inauguration of the terraces in May 22nd, 2001, writes: “The chiseled
and sculptured work coordinates with the colorful plants, creating beauty,
harmony and tranquility.”1 The trilogy — beauty, harmony, and tranquility
— conceptually banded together from time immemorial as ultimate values
breeding truth and virtue — virtue aiming at beauty and beauty at truth —
may well make up the psychic hierarchy necessary when approaching the
subject of authority.2 Men have always given greater priority to social or
political hierarchies and have articulated these as building blocks in historic
definitions of authority3 but in Haifa, with its particular canon of supernal

Shahbaz Fatheazam
imagery and style, these seem to push us in another direction. Surround­
ed by forms of exquisite regularity and uniformity, by constructions that
excel in proportion and wrapped in graceful art — handiwork which,
while drawing attention to itself, nevertheless leaves the cardinal object
invariant and centered — teaches us symmetry. Might not all this portrayal
of beauty conveyed to the pilgrim lead us to ponder upon a broader ap­
plication of the concept of authority, one that applies to a law namable
by harmony and reflecting a deeper reality — an authority which is able
to tear away all impediments standing in the way of discovering what is
true and permanent in human beings?4 The reaction to symmetry goes
far beyond the mere assessment of beauty and harmony. It is about the
discovery of hidden and important truths. “Comprehending the universe
means understanding its symmetries.”5
Discovering the equivalent to a law in physics is an obvious application of
the symmetry principle. Laws in the social sciences, however, are a remote
copy and are only as valid as their underlying assumptions. Their applicabil­
ity to real-world phenomena can also be overrated. There exists so much
faith in certain notions, however, that it presses us to discover or create
an equivalent mathematical law for social theory.6 The idea of authority
has indeed been examined in this light of autonomy, most revealingly in
the social sciences and their prophets of the early nineteenth century to
the 1920s who sought to work out roles for authority consonant with the
autonomy of the social sciences and especially scientism, in the shape of
French positivism, identified by its founder, Auguste Comte (1798—1857).7
His solution was to assign spiritual authority priority in the direction of
social progress and with it, innovation; and political authority priority in
the maintenance of social order and to insist upon their mutual separation
and inviolability. The great pioneers of the new sociology recast authority
as categorically detached from its political connection with coercive power
but as social authorities with little relevance to modern society. Later, Emile
Durkheim (1858—1917) assigned authority to the declining repressive type
of archaic society where old people, the unique intermediary between the

The Last Refuge: Part 2
present and the past, give authority its waning traditional status. Max Weber
ignored the anthropological principle of authority and taught us that the
religious and natural hierarchies such as the church and family, the social
roots of authority, were declining institutions and supported by inertia.
His inquiry gives the modern idea of authority the rational organization
of a highly integrated modern industrial society with impersonal rules and
faceless offices — Weber’s famous legal-rational authority, empowered by a
formalistic belief in the content of the law (legal) or natural law (rationality).
For him, obedience is not given to a specific individual leader — whether
traditional or charismatic — but to a set of uniform principles and rules.
After Weber, the contemporary intellectual approach to authority tended
to defend the familiar liberal ideas, including those of the democratic limits
upon and accountability of authority. Such radicalization was a post World
War II phenomenon which saw in totalitarianism the justification of coercive
power in authority but not just as a case of political abuse but as the key
to the ubiquity of oppressive authoritative power throughout society in
general.8 All kinds of authentic authority are denied — social stratifications
and its divisions into classes as represented by layers of subordination and
superordination, our natural capacities and acquired merit, the delegation
of rights, the authority of age and experience, the authority of the author,
both in terms of a special regard for founders and their foundations and
in terms of the viability of executing pre-determined agendas initiated by
them. These are denied not because they have been corrupted by their
association with power but because they are in themselves illegitimate
exercises of power. The functions of personal respect, social continuity and
individual well-being are better served by the untrammeled interaction of
absolutely free and equal individuals. “The only freedom which deserves
the name, is that of pursuing our own good in our own way’, said the most
celebrated of its champions9 disdaining the fact that such a perspective
lies at the very root of the ancient conflict between freedom and authority
and which brings us to the central question of politics, obedience, and its
corollary, coercion. ‘Why should I (or anyone) obey anyone else?’ ‘Why

Shahbaz Fatheazam
should I not live as I like?’ ‘Must I obey?’ ‘If I disobey may I be coerced and if
so, by whom, and to what degree, and in the name of what or for the sake of
what?’ Law, we are told, is always a fetter, even if it protects us from being
bound in chains that are heavier than those of the law. And underneath
the political question ultimately lies the moral and religious one, namely,
individual freedom.10 It is here, amidst the battle lines drawn between the
cool head of science and positivism and the often distempered head of
religion that modern man’s political odyssey lies.
“A freeman’, said Hobbes, ‘is he that…is not hindered to do what he has a will
to do.”11 This has been the classical definition of freedom as understood by
most (English) political philosophers, namely, an area within which one may
act unobstructed. What, precisely or conveniently, this area of non-inter­
ference is represents the thorny topic of generations of thinkers of all hues
across all areas of study, but it is to the original proposition that a caveat
must be made. Firstly, the doctrine of freedom is comparatively modern.
Individual liberty as a conscious political ideal was scarcely discussed in the
ancient world or in the legal conceptions of Romans and Greeks, much less
in the Jewish, Chinese or any other ancient civilization. So the domination
of this ideal has been the exception rather than the rule, even in the recent
history of the West. The present generation, we can say, is in an interesting
stage in the history of the idea of authority, where the individual, more
than government, has become the subject of discussion. Authority today
has become more a question of relation among psychic elements and the
degree to which we, as individuals, have internalized the social relations of
authoritative power.12
A second problem associated with the prominence of liberty as a focus
of concern is that individual freedom is not everyone’s primary need —
freedom is not synonymous with the absence of frustrations of any kind.
The peasant needs clothes and shelter and medicine much before, and
more than, personal liberty.13 Of course, the minimum freedom he needs
today and the greater liberty he seeks tomorrow is identical to million­

The Last Refuge: Part 2
aires. A third restriction is that evidence of history tends to show that
fiery individualism grows at least as often in severely disciplined, not ‘free’,
communities, such as the military or puritan religious denominations and
this can knock down the argument that liberty is a necessary condition for
the growth of human genius.14 Liberty is not incompatible with an autocrat­
ic form of government or the absence of self-government — there is no
necessary connection between individual liberty and democratic rule, or
variants of democracy. In mid-nineteenth century Europe, for example, the
approach to freedom was through an actual weakening of the structure of
authority, thus enhancing individual rights; in America, the same gain to in­
dividual rights and freedom is obtained through diversification of authority,
through one type of authority being held in check by another. Who governs
me is logically distinct from the question how far may I be interfered by
government. To quote Berlin: “Just as democracy may, in fact, deprive the
individual citizen of a great many liberties which he might have in some
other form of society, so it is perfectly conceivable that a liberal-minded
despot would allow his subjects a large measure of personal freedom.”15
The question that must be asked is this: is individual freedom, even in the
most liberal societies, the sole, or even dominant, criterion of social action?
After all, we compel children to be educated, we forbid killing, we agree
that cruel pleasures like hunting or perverse excitements are worse for
us than the amount of restraint needed to repress them. Is the debate
on the limits of authority or its locus — in whose hands authority should
be placed — so dominant as to preclude all other novel experiments in
living? Is the discussion of absence of public intervention (individual
freedom from external interference or, more precisely, a maximum degree
of non-interference compatible with the minimum demands of social life)
or presence of rule (freedom to pursue self-realization, self-determination,
collective self-direction by some public power or participation in govern­
ment)16 as fundamental to a peaceful society as the argumentation over
the centuries seems to suggest? If parts of humanity are unaccustomed
to freedom in small concerns how can these learn to use it in great affairs?

Shahbaz Fatheazam
Such petition, of course, begs the question that our universal inquiry and
the choices inherent to it are precisely why liberty is so dear to us but also
why it cannot be unlimited. Respect for the principles of justice or shame
at gross inequality is as basic as the desire for liberty although freedom and
equality, as has been observed almost to the point of triteness, are strange
bedfellows and have a certain propensity to consume one another.17
A wider question, especially in the Bahá’í context, still remains: can we as
human beings ever receive enlightenment enough to tolerate or have faith
in a single criterion, proven to be such a deep source of satisfaction both
to the intellect and to the emotions? Is ordinary human knowledge enough
to construct belief in a final solution in the sense that all positive values in
which men have believed must, in the end, be compatible or even entail
one another, something in nature which binds liberty, equality, and frater­
nity together? Or better, are we capable of ridding ourselves the errors of
childhood long after having recognized the very truths needed to destroy
them, truths that have involved our moral, religious, intellectual, economic
and aesthetic values which are, in their turn, bound up with our conception
of man and of the basic demands of his nature?18
In discussing government or tradition in general, we find the development
of individuality an annoying, permanent feature. It destroys the idea that
politics can be shaped by rational understanding alone.19 Is the unfolding of
reason, the cultural passage from superstition to rational comprehension,
trusting enough as a weapon to reject political claims based on supposedly
sacred authority implied in Bahá’í polity?20 Let us examine the evidence.
That we are all individuals is a palpable biological fact and to be individual
is to be distinctive; to be an individual is not distinctive at all — it is simply
a common human fate. The danger lies in a particular brand of the indi­
vidual. “Being individual is an almost purely aesthetic category and on the
whole an affirmative one. Being an individualist is plainly a moral category
and veering strongly towards a negative one.”21 To be individualist, then,

The Last Refuge: Part 2
goes beyond being individual and makes a vice out of necessity and is well
on the way towards clashing with the interests of others, even denying
any affective commitment of one human being towards another. There is
nothing inherently wrong with the fine cult of individuality which generates
respect for the efflorescence of human personality and creativity but this
same cult of individuality when turned into a self-subsistent politics of its
own (not unlike anarchism), is seen as ‘a tasteless exercise in vanity and
self-deception’ and which today’s world of financial capitalism fosters a
narrow egoist individualism at the expense of free, inventive and generous
individuality what Nisbet forewarned in his book Twilight of Authority (1975)
as individualism “which reveals itself less as achievement and enterprise
than as egoism and mere performance.” Where moral sufficiency in our way
of life grows weak, so too allegiance to reason, tolerance, even government
by consent; where the core of confidence around which our liberal values
manifest themselves melts down, so too hope in the availability of all men
of viable individual life, vocations and calling. “Barbarism,’ observes Ortega
y Gasset, ‘is an absence of standards to which appeal can be made.”22
It is interesting that John Locke, considered as the leading apologist of
liberal constitutionalism, predicates this particular feature of liberalism,
namely individualism, on an explicitly transcendental and extra-human
order of value, God. This is of some importance for a historical under­
standing of liberalism. God, the Creator, Locke says, determined the ends
of man, his creature; and all the values which we defend must be seen
as vehicles of God’s purpose for man. Government and society were con­
trivances devised for man through his own reason bestowed by God. As
such, government is to be seen as a subordinate practical convenience,
not a focus of value in itself. (Locke’s advice resembles the Bahá’í belief in
action where the believer is reminded never to confuse means with ends
or to allow the instrument to supersede the spirit. “Say: O servants! Let not
the means of order be made the cause of confusion and the instrument of
union an occasion for discord”)23. Reductive egoistic individualism, Locke
explains, is the ugly result of what the human condition becomes when

Shahbaz Fatheazam
this extra-human authority is removed. “A dependent intelligent being,’ he
wrote, ‘is under the power and direction and dominion of him on whom he
depends and must be for the ends appointed him by that superior being. If
man were independent he could have no law but his own will, no end but
himself. He would be a god to himself and the satisfaction of his own will
the sole measure and end of all his actions.”24
What can democratic society, with their ‘shell institutions’25, say in reply
to the libertarian and, secondly, does the politics of pure individuality, in
itself, represent a viable political arrangement? We shall answer the second
part of the question first. To believe that there might come to be nothing
but purely private life is espousing fantasy. Individualism may be splendid
in its transcendence or in the vigour of its self-expression, but it suggests
History in the classic pose of the ostrich. A certain Left Hegelian author
summed up the politics of pure individuality in a memorable if derivative
apothegm: “the egoist…has nothing to say to the State except ‘Get out of
my sunshine’ “.26 Of course, individuals are society’s smallest units and such
consideration is hardly sufficient for treating them as a commanding focus
of value or to tolerate their idiosyncratic tastes and opinions.27 It is in the
nature of the liberal-democratic type of government28 to deny that there
is any objective science of society or of morals and that in the last resort
truth is a matter of individual conscience where all consciences are held, by
an act of faith, to be equal either in the sight of God or in the sight of man
but it is hard to see how individuals can make valid claims to a measure of
tolerance over and above what the majority of their society is inclined to
give them when individuals themselves are cultural arte-facts and social
products and the majority itself constantly changing. Liberal values today
still have their attractions but cannot enjoy their privileged relation to the
historical process indefinitely.
We have learnt, as a species, that the ideal of springs of cooperative
wealth flowing abundantly to touch the most distant human estuaries is
looking rather thin as a political program or philosophy.29 Defenders of

The Last Refuge: Part 2
liberal democracy acknowledge that as we enter the second decade of the
twenty-first century intense ideological and institutional conflict need to be
resolved to prevent its suicide but that the main threat, some even say with
overstated artistry, is not from within but from forces outside its domain:
“…[L]iberal democracy in general…face[s] three serious opponents: radical
Islam, a rising autocratic China, and the forces of global governance.”30
In answer to the other half of the question, of what can democratic society
say in reply to the egoist, this has partly been explained in the preceding
discussion. Any truth held by the individual is fallible. Rulership, therefore,
will be conditional and temporary as the views to what is true and therefore
proper for government to act upon will change from time to time with
opinion fluctuating among the body of ‘people’.31 And when this opinion
is not unanimous it must be representative of and responsive to the
majority. But the majority must change (so too the minority) otherwise with
permanent minorities and permanent majorities serious problems arise
for the maintenance of the system. This deadlock is explained by Pareto’s
optimality where it is postulated that no individual in society can increase
his own satisfactions without thereby causing someone else to diminish
his. This causes pressure groups and political parties that are so disposed
to fear for the increased satisfaction of other groups to be obtained at its
own expense, and consequently resist the policies of these other groups
and strive desperately to preserve the status quo. But preserving the
status quo does not perpetuate a free and equal society. One can argue
whether this is stability or immobilism but there is no doubt that the same
groups playing the same roles and pursuing the same policies by the same
techniques on much the same sorts of occasion makes for a system insen­
sitive to the needs of an ever evolving society.32 The abolition of slavery in
America in the nineteenth century and enacting civil rights legislation in the
twentieth century are just two examples of how determined the effort to
political change, in fact, strengthened society.

Shahbaz Fatheazam
But is there not in the idea of an ever-evolving society and its social inter­
dependence, the seeds of inequality and political instability? Can any in­
stitution be changed to reward the better side of human nature?33 Is there
a special guidance on how to realize our conceptions of civilization and
justice in economy, society or polity, in face of the palpable obstructions
to allow for the sacred community to be born and to operate peacefully, in
unity, and with desired ends not only agreed but secured — ‘the construc­
tion of a moral island in an amoral ocean’?34
Fashioning such a world pressed by the demands of history forces us to
seek, not the temporary comfort of utopia or the idyllic state, but the
full truth of a synoptic vision addressing a new relation with a new type
of authority and a new type of custodian of aspirations that are authenti­
cally universalist, practically international and untied to old structures of
domination considered impossible to dismantle.35 After all, a world without
social organization of some sort is simply unimaginable. But we cannot
dismiss liberal democracy as failure nor do Bahá’ís shun the concept of
liberty which democracy values.
“The Ancient Beauty hath consented to be bound with chains that mankind
may be released from its bondage, and hath accepted to be made a
prisoner within this most mighty Stronghold that the whole world may
attain unto true liberty. He hath drained to its dregs the cup of sorrow that
all the peoples of the earth may attain unto abiding joy, and be filled with
gladness… We have accepted to be abased ... that ye may be exalted, and
have suffered manifold afflictions, that ye might prosper and flourish”.36
In the Bahá’í Faith the relation between democracy and liberty is viewed
differently from the popular (ideal) nexus of elections (practice of
democracy) and the preservation of freedoms (liberty). While the Bahá’í
idea of government allows all adults (21 years of age and above) to actively
participate in the selection of its leaders, the protection of basic liberties
of speech, assembly, religion, and property can only be guaranteed by ap­

The Last Refuge: Part 2
preciating and respecting two wider Bahá’í loyalties or firmness: that of (1)
unity of mankind and (2) the Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, although in reality
these two concepts are interrelated as per this declaration: “It is evident
that the axis of the oneness of the world of humanity is the power of the
Covenant and nothing else…”37 Only a sense of true brotherhood and unity
can build a just society and enforce universal peace; without unity peace is
unachievable. And legitimate civil rights can never be degenerated to the
level of undermining the Covenant, ‘for this would vitiate the very purpose
of the Revelation itself.’ As to the phrase ‘true liberty’ mentioned in the
scripture above, this is understood to mean that a man so upright as to be
unable to sin is more free than someone who is able to either sin or not sin.
“True liberty consisteth in man’s submission unto My commandments, little
as ye know it.”38 Outside the law of God there is no freedom of action and
Bahá’ís adhere to the principle of libertas oboedientiae, an accountable
freedom or obedience that leads to liberty.
Is democracy, as Toqueville asserts, a history of freedom or a history of
power? We cannot detach the relation of democracy to the preservation
of contexts in which from the individual, community and institutions39 can
thrive under the watch of a ‘tutelary power’ which can secure their grati­
fication and determine their fate, but as a loving parent vying to prepare
them for manhood and not, ‘on the contrary, to keep them in perpetual
childhood’. Centralized, democratic power may not destroy but it prevents
existence; it may not tyrannize, but it compresses, enervates, and may even
‘extinguish’ a people, in the sense of sterilizing all social differences.40
Our narrative thus far seems to suggest a passionate faith in the future,
an untroubled confidence in our power to mould it, especially if allied
to a capacity for realistic appraisal of its true contours, and a sensitive
awareness of the tendencies of a particular political and historical milieu.
While comforting and commendatory, this mood can quickly turn into
parody if our ability to hear the distant hoofbeat of the horse of history is
not followed by a superhuman effort to leap and catch the horseman by the

Shahbaz Fatheazam
coat-tails, to paraphrase Berlin. Not the heralds of a bright and cloudless
civilization of the future, our generation must listen for this fateful sound
more eagerly than any other and be preoccupied with its own vivid world,
deciding to act and not to react. Our audience is not just immediate but
in centuries to come. Sensing the larger picture with ‘seismographical
accuracy’ and revealing hidden substrata is not something to be admired
as virtuosity but to heed as a warning to save the future; it is done by in­
terpreting the present with a vision from the not too distant past which
explains both historical change and that which promotes the peace and
tranquility of the world. But readers are too wounded and deceived in
always seeing any explanation only explaining away and every chorus line
only denying the given. But neither should disbelief or total skepticism be
considered a suitable inclination for even the least schooled and innocent
amongst us, forced to wander self-blinded. In the “worthy agencies of that
Divine Polity which incarnates God’s immutable Purpose for all men”41 the
Bahá’í proposal is not a rival type of knowledge nor mystical conservatism
but a belief in a single, serene vision, too indivisibly simple and remote from
normal intellectual processes to be assailable. Its mere possibility, however,
needs a fight, fought not with pitchforks or knives, or power or knowledge,
but, paradoxically, by resisting, by unburdening both intellectual infallibil­
ity and our sense of perpetual moral error. If we are poorly endowed to
reconcile, (or too honorable to leave unreconciled), the conflict of what
there is with what there ought to be, then a higher realm containing a per­
ception far above that of any human being — a greater realism — must be
independently sought. Why resist or turn our backs to the content of this
greater realism when our very innate faculty — the faith instinct — won’t let
God go away?42
NOTES
1.	 	 Bahá’í Shrine and Gardens on Mount Carmel, Haifa, Israel, A Visual Journey. Edited and
compiled by the Haifa Tourist Board ([Haifa]: Municipality of Haifa, Haifa Tourist Board and
Ministry of Defense Publishing House, 2001), p. 34.

The Last Refuge: Part 2
2.	 	 “Beauty is truth, truth beauty” from Ode on a Grecian Urn, line 49, written in 1819, perhaps
Keats’ most discussed line in all of his poetry.
3.	 	 The definition of authority itself is elusive as the march of history forces upon it ever new
meanings, with internal assumptions being but reflections of authority’s changing external
roles. The original dominant meaning was the capacity to evoke voluntary compliance or
assent. In today’s restless world, authority is seen as the capacity to evoke compliance,
voluntary or not, “on grounds which confer an official right upon coercive power and a
compulsory force upon rational conviction.” Leonard Krieger, in the Dictionary of the
History of Ideas, Volume I, New York, Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1973, page 141. As such,
authority becomes a source of power inducing others for desired results but which needs
to be always stronger in the face of disobedience which has become more and more
legitimate as the possibilities to do so with impunity have become more frequent.
4.	  	 The liberating context of political community, of an authority to emancipate the individual
from the torments and stress of the faction ridden, rootless and anomic society and to
provide him the haven and moral fortress to survive, has always been influential in political
thought, and can be found in works as early as Plato’s Republic (380 BCE) but the broader,
spiritual idea of individual emancipation, in the sense that true existence is not in the
material but in the disembodied, true existence beyond the here and now, can be found
much earlier, in the logical outgrowths of larger metaphysical systems, such as the Indian
religion, traced to 1500 BCE.
5.	 	 Physicist Leon Lederman, quoted in Finance and the Good Society, by Robert J. Shiller,
Princeton, UP, 2012, page 132.
6.	 	 In my particular field of study, concepts of symmetry are found in market efficiency, the
mathematical law to describe the price of a stock option (Fischer Black and Myron
Scholes); the so-called Modigliani-Miller theorems and still others.
7.	  	 Comte’s relevance is his claim that human culture developed in three stages: the theolog­
ical where human beings rely on supernatural agencies to explain what they can’t explain
otherwise; the metaphysical where human beings attribute effects to abstract but poorly
understood causes; and the positive (or experiential) where we understand the scientific
laws that control the world. The Bahá’í view unifies the three dimensions not just in the
acquisition of facts but to lead to truth awareness.
8.	 	 Totalitarianism is not just restricted to a terrorist political coordination of society. In the
formulation of Herbert Marcuse (1898—1979), a left-wing German sociologist, contemporary
industrial society also tends to be totalitarian with economic-technical coordination
operating through the manipulation of needs by vested interests. “Under the rule of a re­
pressive whole, liberty can be made into a powerful instrument of domination.” (Marcuse,
One-Dimensional Man, p. 7)
9.	  	 John Stuart Mill, On Liberty, Chapter I.
10.	 In progressive movements which seek a radical change in men’s moral, social and intel­
lectual lives, such as the Bahá’í Faith, political mentality is inseparable from the religious
or moral mentality, especially when there exists the conviction of the sanctified nature of

Shahbaz Fatheazam
politics. Politics provides the chosen course of action and a common policy but it is the
zeal, sense of mission, dedication and sacrifice of a profoundly religious quality which seals
politics’ success.
11.		 Thomas Hobbes, Leviathan, http://ebooks.adelaide.edu.au/h/hobbes/thomas/h68l/chap­
ter21.html
12.	 This brings to mind famous studies such as Fromm’s Escape from Freedom (1941), Adorno’s
The Authoritarian Personality (1950), Riesman’s Lonely Crowd (1950), where cosmos and
psyche meet in character types that define our degree of conformity or submission to
power and authority.
13.	 George Orwell, impatiently arguing his case for collectivism given the depressing reality
of social inequalities, and writing in 1943, puts it more bluntly,: “All that the working man
demands is . . . enough to eat, freedom from the haunting terror of unemployment, the
knowledge that . . . [his] children will get a fair chance, a bath once a day, clean linen rea­
sonably often, a roof that doesn’t leak, and short enough working hours to leave . . . [him]
a little energy when the day is done.” “Looking Back on the Spanish War,” The Collected
Essays, 11, page 265.
14.	 	 Refer to Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, by James F. Stephen, published 15 years after Mill’s
On Liberty.
15.	 	 Isaiah Berlin, The Proper Study of Mankind — An Anthology of Essays, New York, FSG,
1997, page 201.
16.	 	 This is alluding to Isaiah Berlin’s famous idea of distinguishing between negative liberty
and positive liberty, a provocative essay first published in 1958 under the title Two Con­
cepts of Liberty. [See Berlin, I., 1969, ‘Two Concepts of Liberty’, in I. Berlin, Four Essays
on Liberty, London: Oxford University Press. New edition Berlin 2002]. Negative liberty
is defined as a mere absence of something (i.e. of obstacles, barriers, constraints or
interference from others), whereas positive liberty implies the presence of something (i.e.
of control, self-mastery, self-determination or self-realization). In Berlin’s words, we use the
negative concept of liberty in attempting to answer the question “What is the area within
which the subject — a person or group of persons — is or should be left to do or be what
he is able to do or be, without interference by other persons?”, whereas we use the posi­
tive concept in attempting to answer the question “What, or who, is the source of control
or interference that can determine someone to do, or be, this rather than that?”. The facts
of our humanity — that we are born ignorant, unreasoning, rapacious and with a very high
probability of falling severely ill and dependent — may always be an excuse for State to
intervene, but does this necessarily mean oppression?
17.	 	 Hobbes contemplated unlimited liberty as the bain of stable order (“Liberty is power cut
into pieces”) but it is not clear how his iron logic of political thought — representation
of the absolute political community, or Leviathan, and the creation of an impersonal
environment of law within which individuals may rationally pursue their proper interests —
can make a community true, good and beautiful. The strong and powerful would cease to
exist, given Hobbes’ blend of social nihilism and political affirmation, but he never justified
absolute power (always to be understood to mean the absence of competing allegiances
or lesser form of community and not totalitarianism) in the name of virtue, equality, and

The Last Refuge: Part 2
freedom as Rousseau was inclined to do more than a hundred years later. This preeminent
citizen of Geneva envisaged a power that is more than power; he saw it as refuge from the
inequities and uncertainties of ordinary society.
18.	 	 An interrogation that cannot be escaped by those who, with Kant, have learnt the truth
that ‘Out of the crooked timber of humanity no straight thing was ever made’ summarizing
the belief that our understanding of objects would always be skewed by our limited
capacity to understand.
19.	 	 The Universal House of Justice imagines this in its important and often-quoted letter
about rights and freedom of expression in the Bahá’í community, in a letter addressed to
the Bahá’ís of the United States, dated December 29th, 1988. “…[T]he inordinate skepti­
cism regarding authority, and consequently, in the grudging respect which citizens of var­
ious nations show toward their governments…have become pronounced in the incessant
promotion of individualism, often to the detriment of the wider society…” Paragraph 22.
20.	 Hegel conceived the notion that universal history is the realization of the Idea of Reason
but he acknowledges that this does not work out in a reasonable way on the surface. In
his doctrine of the Cunning of Reason, he acknowledges that history fulfills its ulterior
rational designs in an indirect and ‘sly’ manner. It does so by calling into play the irra­
tional element in human nature, the passions which he sees as the individual person’s
self-regarding, self-seeking emotions. He writes: “Two elements, therefore, enter into our
investigation: first, the Idea, secondly the complex of human passions; the one the warp,
the other the woof of the vast tapestry of world history.” Refer to his Reason in History:
A General Introduction to the Philosophy of History. The creator of Moby Dick, in a style
less orotund, agrees: ‘Tis dream to think that Reason can/Govern the reasoning creature,
man.” [Herman Melville, “Selected Poems of Hermann Melville”, Ed. Hennig Cohen, Ford­
ham University Press, 1991, page 169]
21.	 	 John Dunn, Western Political Theory in the Face of the Future, Cambridge, Canto, 1993,
page 35.
22.	 Jose Ortega y Gasset, The Revolt of the Masses, New York, 1932, p. 79
23.	 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 222
24.	 John Locke (1632—1704), quoted in John Dunn, The Political Thought of John Locke (Cam­
bridge: Cambridge University Press, 1969), frontispiece.
25.	 Coined by Anthony Giddens in his 2002 book, Runaway World: How Globalization is
reshaping Our Lives, page 19, to refer to institutions that appear the same and carry the
same name but inside have become quite different. The outer shell remains but inside
they have changed;. “…’shell institutions’…are institutions that have become inadequate to
the tasks they are called upon to perform.”
26.	 Max Stirner, in The Ego and His Own, quoted by John Dunn, Western Political Theory in
the Face of the Future, Cambridge, 1993, page 53.
27.	 	 Complicated thinkers such as Rousseau, Kant and John Stuart Mill would take issue here
and argue that the central value of the moral life is individual responsibility. The form of a
good act for an individual is — very roughly — an act performed in such a manner that the
individual could will that act to be a universal law and the precondition for an individual

Shahbaz Fatheazam
to perform such acts was the condition of autonomy, the full assumption of responsibility
for one’s own moral life. Based on the Christian solidity of their time, such convictions
are understandable but in the current vacuity of modern society the relations between
autonomy, morality and reason become tenuous if not wholly inadequate.
28.	 The liberal-democratic nation-state is a product of the modern age (an English export?)
and emerged during the Enlightenment. Although a compound term which goes by a
variety of other names (constitutional democracy, representative democracy, democratic
republic and the like) it consists of two different strands: liberalism and democracy. The
former emphasizes individual rights such as free speech, freedom of the press, freedom of
association, freedom of religion and limited government; the latter means majority rule in
some form with equality of citizenship in political participation supported by independent
political parties representing the different viewpoints of the people. It is a tautology to say
that liberal democracy is a product not just of law, but of philosophic and religious views,
of habits and sentiments.
29.	 In the last decades, the domestic agenda of British and American politics, their govern­
ments being outstanding examples of liberal-democracy for their government stability,
executive authority, extensive administrative capabilities and concern for minorities, can
really be reduced to only one issue: increasing national productivity and dividing it up.
But the results, at least for the USA, make for pretty somber reading. According to the
US Congressional Budget Office, for the 1% of the population with the highest income,
average real after-tax income grew 275% between 1979 and 2007; over the same period,
Americans with income in the bottom 20% of the population saw only an 18% increase.
Cited in Finance and the Good Society, by Robert J. Shiller, Princeton, UP, 2012, page 89.
30.	 John Fonte, Sovereignty or Submission: Will Americans Rule Themselves or Be Ruled
by Others?, New York, Encounter Books, 2011, page 341. Global governance is a serious
political actor on the world stage and its presumption of global rule of law and judicial
supremacy of global legalism is considered a threat to domestic politics and in conflict
with the moral right to self-government. The Bahá’í operation of unity in diversity explains
away this plausible threat of global supremacy in its conception of a world federation of
states. See also Note 146 on page 46.
31.	 	 The people, or demos, is a bald term which recoils, it seems, whenever we describe our
own political view or aspirations. Self-rule is a necessary condition of democracy but are
the people really sovereign and is their exercise of sovereign self-government, or the
modern variant, representative democracy, meaningful? Who are the people anyway? Are
they adult, white males (Note: white women in South Africa were first allowed to vote in
1930 and it was not until the end of apartheid in 1994 that all adult women were allowed to
vote), legal residents, country citizens of the mentally sane, non-incarcerated kind? If every
person must count as one and no person as more than one, what happens in the event
of two mutually exclusive policies being put forward from among the people? The policy
supported by most people wins, but then the notion ‘people’ turns into a majority of the
people. But might not the size of the minority matter? After all, winning by 50.5% and losing
by 49.5% is not much of a margin. Before relegating the term ‘people’ as sheer narrative
pleasure like a sacrilegious image (‘idolum mentis’) to use as declamatory veneration but of
no practical, political significance, we simply have to admit that modern states are preclud­
ed by their very structure from giving more than a token recognition to the ideal of political

The Last Refuge: Part 2
equality. We know that organs of government do not simply ‘represent’ or reproduce
consciously expressed values of the public and it is arguable whether they should indeed
do so as the public also expects government to provide continuity and to show foresight.
Moreover, the indispensable presence of a large-scale bureaucracy in modern government
may be an antidote to wasting a prodigious amount of time and effort but is, nevertheless,
another bitter blow to meaningful political participation for the majority of citizens. For
these and many other reasons, we must sigh and say that demos is a word for what we
cannot have — the possibility of ruling our own state — but an imperfect word which fends
off worse fates. I share George Orwell’s view that the term ‘democracy’ increasingly has be­
come a blanket term to praise any regime and its dishonest use as a convenient deception
device would stop “…if it were tied down to any one meaning.” Refer to his insightful 1946
essay, Politics and the English Language, available from the site http://gutenberg.net.au/
ebooks03/0300011h.html#part42
32.	 Such criticism is occasionally leveled at Bahá’ís too, where routine election outcomes on
local national, and international administrative bodies seem to suggest an inbuilt bias to
the ‘status quo’ rather than to change and innovation. The issue of stability and change
from a purely electoral point of view can always be explored but it is only one level of
granularity and even then handicapped by the fact that such analysis does not consider
all-important spiritual norms governing Bahá’í elections. Just using the criteria of turnover
and membership is utterly misleading. It is impossible to ignore the individual and the
group, or community, in analyzing how stability/change at one level influence (or fail to
influence) stability/change at the other levels (up or down) in this three-part hierarchy
(see Note 122 on page 38). Do elections on their own help us to understand any better
the relationship between institutional capabilities and change? Is the temporal dimension
— annual elections to local and national Assemblies (or quinquennial in the case of the
Universal House of Justice) of any significance in the coordination and interdependence
of activities, the development of institutions, stability, change? Do these time scales at all
matter to help us understand direction, dependence, and drift? Shoghi Effendi thought
that in one aspect such a frequency of elections is advantageous, to “…give the community
a good opportunity to remedy any defect or imperfection from which the Assembly may
suffer as a result of the actions of its members.” [Quoted in Arash Abizadeh, Democratic
Elections without Campaigns? Normative Foundations of National Bahá’í Elections,
World Order Magazine, 2005, Vol. 37, No. 1, page 37] Should there be limits on the term
of service on membership which force change over repeated elections? This question
may be discarded as it violates the freedom of persons to vote for whomever their
conscience moves them. With no reference made to personalities before election and
where electioneering, party-formation, and nominations are explicitly banned in Bahá’í
elections — do these prohibitions not make it difficult to understand the role of elections
in enabling coordination and stability? How are the procedures and functions that exist
within Bahá’í institutions able to (re)create institutional contexts (and vice versa)? Does
the practice-based nature of Bahá’í consultation play a role in creating and recreating
the contexts in which they are practiced? Is there any way we can evaluate how the
interactions of routines within an Assembly affect the nature of the Assembly? Are these
considerations of practical importance when a norm relevant for Bahá’í elections is the
Assembly’s year round duty of institutional transparency? Assemblies must “…within the
limits of wise discretion, take the friends into their confidence, acquaint them with their

Shahbaz Fatheazam
plans, share with them their problems and anxieties, and seek their advice and counsel.
[Shoghi Effendi, quoted in Arash Abizadeh, idem, page 42] Under appropriate conditions
individuals can learn and change their patterns of action through feedback. What is the
role of feedback as expressed through formal channels, such as the 19 Days’ Feasts and
the annual National Convention, in the stability or change of institutions? Does feedback
work to change the routines from staying the same, or prevent changing others we wish to
stay the same? These questions should be asked, but of greater relevance, in the increas­
ingly uncertain and fast-changing environments in which today’s organizations operate, is
to shift our attention from institutions as fixed entities to the study of the distributed and
situated dynamics by which they emerge and are constructed? Capturing how institutions
learn to strike a balance between stability and coherence, on one hand, and flexibility
and change, on the other, however, is non-trivial and requires abandoning static views of
organization. While pertinent, some of these questions and observations nevertheless
suggest an inordinate emphasis on one side of the argument — that outcomes are the only
measure of electoral institutions’ value. Clearly, they are not. “Inherent features of the
Bahá’í electoral process are also important for their own sake, independent of the kind of
outcomes to which the process leads. Even if the best representatives could be elected
by a totally unfair process that required lying and humiliating participants, there would be
something inherently wrong with the process itself. Thus one way to justify and evaluate
electoral rules and norms is according to features of the electoral process that are valu­
able for their own sake.” [Arash Abizadeh, ibid, page 15]. But the more usual, persistent,
view of elections is that they are instruments for realizing certain outcomes—such as
choosing qualified persons as one’s representatives. See also Note 65 on page 22.
33.	 James Madison, statesman and Father of the United States Constitution (for being instru­
mental in its drafting), in one of his more memorable political polemics, will have answered
peremptorily: “If men were angels, no government would be necessary. If angels were
to govern men, neither external nor internal goals on government would be necessary.
In framing a government which is to be administered by men over men…you must first
enable the government to control the governed; and in the next place oblige it to control
itself.” Paragraph from Federalist Paper No: 51, quoted in Sovereignty or Submission: Will
Americans Rule Themselves or Be Ruled by Others?, by John Fonte, New York, Encounter
Books, 2011, page 46.
34.	 Rousseau is famous here wishing to liberate the individual from the toils and traps of
society by approximating the individual as nearly as possible to the state of nature, inde­
pendent of his fellow men but dependent on a higher law. In a letter to Mirabeau he wrote:
“It is of the essence of society to breed incessant war among its members; and the only
way of combating this war is to find a form of government that will set the law above them
all.” Quoted in Robert Nisbet, The Social Philosophers: Community & Conflict in Western
Thought, concise paperback edition, Washington Square Press, 1973, page 39.
35.	 The step to a religious community is not a logical one as the preoccupation with community
has taken many forms in the past, and not just restricted to the political and religious
kind. We have had the utopian traditions, anarchist philosophies, ecological communes,
revolutionary traditions, like the Puritan revolt in seventeenth century England, the French
Revolution and the Jacobins, Marx and Communist Revolution, the revolt of the Third
World and so on. But may not such philosophical and political manifestations be seen as

The Last Refuge: Part 2
anything more that contemporary man’s substitute for religion — a secularization of religious
thought? This tradition exerts a real, imaginative, and moral purchase to our discussion.
36.	 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, Wilmette, BPT, 1990, XLV p. 99
37.	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Tablets of the Divine Plan Revealed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to the North American
Bahá’ís” rev. ed. (Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust, 1977), p.49)
38.	 Op.cit. page 335
39.	 This three-part hierarchy of individual, institution and community is adopted from the
Bahá’í approach to reconciling the individual and society. It recognizes the fact that a vast
area of human conduct and activity in society proceeds quite unregulated or controlled
by public authority but forms, nevertheless, a coherent set of patterns and regulates itself.
In each group there exists a reservoir of the able-and-willing (the individual) who actually
fill the leadership roles at any one time (the institutions) and who forward the purposes of
members with certain objectives (the community) more effectively.
40.	 To discuss liberal democracy solely from the point of view of the West is admittedly
narrow albeit important given that ‘The light of liberty is the light of the West’ [Talk by
‘Abdu’l-Bahá given at the Unity Meeting of Misses Jack and Herrick, September 22nd,
1911]. If it is morally defensible then what is there to prevent its application in non-Western
contexts? Is there any enthusiasm for liberal values in Asian philosophy comparable to the
uncritical identification we have of mainstream values of the West? Few, if any, Western
liberal democratic theorists in the post-Word War II era have sought to learn from the tra­
ditions and experiences of Asian or non-European societies to fulfill, at least, the desire of
some luminaries for a synthesis of ‘East’ and ‘West’. Just as Western medicine has become
less impervious to Asian influence — the acceptance of acupuncture, herbal remedies
and other alternative medicine have become increasingly common in treatment — so too
the insularity in Western political thinking must be broken to begin to appreciate the
valuable Eastern political traditions and practices born out of these different philosophical
backgrounds.
41.		 Shoghi Effendi, WOB, page 65
42.	 A fascinating study on the relationship between religious experience and brain function
has shed light on the mysterious connection between human consciousness and the
divine. The biology of belief can be found in a fascinating book by A. Newburg, E. d’Aquili
and V. Rause, Why God Won’t Go Away, New York, Ballantine Books, 2001.

The Last Refuge: Part 2
‘The Religious Danger’1
One of the most important founders of Sociology, Emile Durkheim
(1858–1917), was not wrong when he said that in the very origins of religion
is society. A religion may or may not have a belief in heaven or hell, may
or may not have gods in the ordinary sense, may or may not have rites,
ceremonies, priests or formal worship, but what religion always has is the
sense of the sacred community.2 Durkheim’s older contemporary thinker,
Karl Marx, similarly saw the utilitarian role that religious belief plays in
binding communities together. But both were wrong in seeing religion as
a product of material conditions of the groups that pertain to it. Religion
can never be explained simply by reference to prior material conditions.
Religious ideas have played an independent role in shaping political
outcomes.3 Its magic and its art as well as its doctrine and philosophy, have
played a central part in humanity’s major episodes, most especially in the
evolution, not just of society, but of the good society identified as one
which “gives freedom to all its citizens and encourages them to achieve
their full potential — physical, mental, and spiritual.”4 Religion has contrib­
uted the most to this noble concept, directly and indirectly, since earliest
times. In the religion of Abraham, for example, we see the idea and central
importance of a covenant where God guides man on condition that man
abides by His laws. Obedience comes to be seen not just as a duty but as
a right to receive — a novel calculus with implications not just for individ­

Shahbaz Fatheazam
ual conduct but social advancement in general.5 Its twin secular version
reappears in Rousseau’s ‘Du contrat social ou Principes du droit politique’,
intact with the same suprahuman, indivisible, and inalienable qualities —the
idea of a higher, ‘General Will’ — and even given the status of the ‘voice
of God’. It similarly demands unqualified obedience of every individual,
the complete surrender to an omnipotent liberator who shall deliver, but
which Rousseau calls the state.6 The Covenant of Abraham was renewed by
Moses and restated in terms of specific teachings to be known as the Ten
Commandments, inspiring a vibrant civilization under the reigns of David
and Solomon and uniting the Israelites. Similarly, other world religions, like
Zoroastrianism, Hinduism, Buddhism and Confucianism, (the last being
more a philosophy rather than religion and with the added deficiency of
emphasizing solely worldly matters) have to be credited for the brilliance
of their civilizations and for their continued hidden strength in man’s quest
for community, but a chronological narrative is not our objective here.7 It is
to show how much these religions contain the ethics necessary for a stable
society, how they have established important reforms and their impact on
the community of man comparable to Christianity or Islam.8 It is to these
two latter monotheistic faiths, however, that much attention is given as both
are profoundly oriented toward a communal character and their corporate
conceptions continually militating against the secular accentuated no less
by their strong focus on the strategy of nation-building as the only true and
real form of kinship, akin to ethnic nationalism in relation to the clan system.
Fukuyama, by focusing on Islam, for example, makes it clear that religion
should be taken seriously as a potential pathway not just to override lesser
loyalties, a perennial stumbling block to state-building, but harmonize the
three corner struggle between central authority, the elites and the masses.
Empires, he says, are more lasting when bearers of a salvationist creed. But
even these cannot resist disunity and disputed successions, as illustrated
by the Sunni-Shia split which resulted in lesser loyalties, such as the tribe,
to reassert themselves.

The Last Refuge: Part 2
In the very visibility of ecclesiastical dominance, some might see both
Christianity and Islam, as too corporate, too communal, too repressive
of individual faith and reason.9 Such disconsolate elements in these rec­
ognized types of theocracy discredit the theocratic order (God governs
His people through a revealed Book and through legal institutions divinely
ordained and granting infallibility, viz. the Guardianship and the Universal
House of Justice, in the Bahá’í movement) but it is to degree we must turn.
The real safeguard lies in that the relationship between the Creator and
his subject is direct and unique and does not require the intercession of
a salvational institution. In this profound sense, the Bahá’í Faith can never
be seen to be repressive to individual faith or to be too corporate. Such
guarantee of the freedom and inviolability of an individual’s personal con­
victions reflects ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s call that conscience is ‘one of the private
possessions of the heart and the soul’ and that cannot be surrendered to
any institution, whether spiritual or secular.10 “From two ranks among men
power hath been seized: kings and ecclesiastics.”11 The abolition of priest­
hood removes both the corporate hold on the day-to-day affairs of the
community and, more importantly, the imminent risk of tearing the Faith
to pieces ‘by the conflicting opinions of scholars applying limited human
reasoning to divinely revealed truths.’
In addition to India and Christian Europe, Islamic Middle East is the other
world civilization in which a rule of law came into being, rooted and deeply
scriptural and codified from a very early point, not unlike Judaism; it is
divine in origin, exercising universal jurisdiction and the source of all truth
and justice. (In the case of Islam, those rules are not just the Holy Koran
but also the corpus of sunna and the hadith). The interpretation of these
rules is in many cases uncertain and has to be delegated to a special class
of priests — clergy of the Church or the ulama, or scholars. In both cases,
law comes not from political power but from God, who has dominion over
political authorities. Muhammad (570 a.C — 632 a.C) may have been a tribal
ruler in his lifetime but his command did not rest on political leadership so
much as in his role as the transmitter of the word of God. Bahá’ís do not

Shahbaz Fatheazam
consider the Papacy or the Caliphate as divinely given systems of theocracy
but that, although man-made, are ‘partly derived from the teachings of
Christ and Muhammad.’ “The Bahá’í theocracy, on the contrary, is both
divinely ordained as a system and, of course, based on the teachings of the
Prophet Himself.”12
Political and religious authority were frequently united in Christian Europe
and in the Muslim world.13 There is no doubt, however, that law based on
religion has created the foundation for the modern rule of law and which
existed in medieval Europe, the Middle East, and India well before any of
these regions made a transition to modernity. Rulers in all of these societies
acknowledged that they had lived under a law that they themselves did
not create. The existence of a separate religious authority accustomed
rulers to the claim that they were not the ultimate source of the law and
success of resistance to these claims reasserted the primacy of law in the
eyes of the public, over and above legislation. The divine word itself was
law. Such resistance is made easier when a religious tradition gave law a
sanctity, autonomy, and coherence that it otherwise might not have. We
are using the term law in its widest meaning, as “an embodiment of a broad
social consensus regarding rules of justice.”14 This turns law to be prior to
legislation and, in various ages social consensus was expressed religiously
because religion played a greater role in people’s daily lives, especially
critical when the attitude is taken to connect politics, the activity behind
social consensus, to the human good — not only thinking together but also
a working together. But the communal, corporate, social and aesthetic
qualities of religion most under attack with the rise of modernity three
centuries before resurged, paradoxically, as celebrated themes to be
studied in the nineteenth century.
We began this section with two famous thinkers of the nineteenth century
not by coincidence but because of an irony ‘and fertile instruction in
the fact that this century — coming as it does hard on the heels of the
Protestant Reformation, the Age of Reason, the Enlightenment, and the

The Last Refuge: Part 2
Revolution — should be one of the richest of all centuries in philosophical
and literary expressions of religious community.’15 The irony is clear. For
centuries, the tendencies of Western thought has been in the direction
of secularization, rationalization, ‘dechristianization decrees’, positivism,
democracy, and technology. Religion was contending for a final blow but
despite such confidence in high-minded wordly wisdom, evidence of
religious revival in the nineteenth century can be seen in many areas: phi­
losophy, sociology, literature, and theology.16 Nisbet observes that in this
period we are confronted with a diffusion of more sects and faiths within
Christianity than perhaps in any other, certainly after the Reformation. Such
a veritable ‘tidal wave of religious enthusiasm’ was not shared by all. Some
of the greatest and most influential remained as impervious as had any
philosophe in the century before: Jeremy Bentham, Karl Marx, Nietzche
and many other intellectual children of the Age of Reason. One Danish and
Protestant colleague, however, did not share their indifference or arrogant
derision (Marx referring to religion as ‘the opium of the people’ is a case
in point)17 and an agonizing state of personal crisis springing from his sense
of aloneness in the spiritual universe produced a powerful presentation
of the authority of the community of God. In his passionate Christian
Discourses (1848) Kierkegaard declares that religion alone can provide the
supporting pillars necessary for reasserting, at one and the same time, indi­
viduality and community. Interestingly, the terminology of community is not
found in Kierkegaard’s writings, neither is there any abundant reference
to community of any kind but his thought is relevant in that it emphasizes
the vital authoritarianism of religion and the presence of authority may be
considered one of the oldest and most visible manifestations of community.
There can be no community, he seems to say, without an internal authority
that binds the individual to itself and that provides him sanctuary from
the alienation and atomization of an age of crisis. But communities do not
naturally coalesce in some organic, non-negotiated way from their constit­
uent individuals or lesser communities. Different individuals and groups
have interest that may not always harmonize peaceably with those of
others. It must be recognized that no community can hold together without

Shahbaz Fatheazam
the virtue of justice, the virtue that gives to others what is rightfully their
own. Aristotle, in his Politics, refers to justice as ‘the bond of men in states’
and the administration of justice the principle of order and foundation of
political society. The justice of the ruler or the law is to respect and to foster
the good of this public thing: the common good. And the common good at
which the laws of the political community should aim is the good regulated
according to divine justice. It is this meaning of the term justice that is
invested in the designation of the central governing body of the Order of
Bahá’u’lláh: “Among the powers and duties with which the Universal House
of Justice has been invested are… to foster that which is conducive to the
enlightenment and illumination of the souls of men and the advancement
and betterment of the world.”18 Membership in the political community will
naturally contribute to the individual’s good. Alternatively, laws may make
one a good citizen but not a good human being.
Political philosophy in the context of a religious community, the extension
of governance of humankind with its implicit tension between regnum (the
sphere of worldly administration) and sacerdotium (in its widest form as
representing the entire religious order), the influence of institutions, and
how certain features of Bahá’í teachings and Bahá’í administrative structure
envisaged provide the flexibility and assurance to these concerns within the
context of realism are all issues underlying religion in its relation to society,
and, more specifically, in relation to a wider, World Order. The idea of
global governance, in particular, is the prevailing orthodoxy and is becoming
increasingly the basis of government decisions, bilateral agreements, and
international treaties (viz. the Kyoto protocols or the treaty establishing the
International Criminal Court). If political communities (sovereign states) now
have a political superior (global political community) should religion too not
have a global appeal and a global reach? Given that religion is indispensable
to society as a mechanism of stability, as an integrating force, and as a body
of symbols of allegiance to the social bond, to echo Chateaubriand — are
there areas where religion does not, should not, intervene?

The Last Refuge: Part 2
As religion begins to renew itself under the banner of Bahá’u’lláh, we see
that the ecumenical idea in history has been realized. Saint Augustine,
the first Western philosopher to conceive mankind as a single, unified
entity, possessing a history of its own, envisaged a total, unified, organis­
mic mankind with the various peoples — Hebrews, Greeks, Romans and
others in his day — as manifestations of ‘stages’ of development in the life
of mankind. The following brief passage from his City of God is perhaps the
most quoted in Western writing on the philosophy of history:
“The education of the human race, represented by the people of God, has
advanced, like that of an individual, through certain epochs, or, as it were,
ages, so that it might gradually rise from earthly to heavenly things, and
from the visible to the invisible.”19
Bahá’ís readily relate to this idea of stages in mankind’s collective growth
and believe that the coming of age of the entire human race is a signal of
the organic and spiritual unity of the whole body of nations envisaged by
Bahá’u’lláh. This is to be viewed “…as marking the last and highest stage
in the stupendous evolution of man’s collective life on this planet. The
emergence of a world community, the consciousness of world citizenship,
the founding of a world civilization and culture …should…be regarded…, as
the furthermost limits in the organization of human society…”20 In this sense,
religion becomes indivisible from other types of authority and the fact
that there is no functional separation of religious and secular authority in
Bahá’u’lláh’s World Order and, consequently, no two parallel judicial estab­
lishments may come to exist, this makes the Universal House of Justice ‘the
supreme organ of the Bahá’í Commonwealth’ to exercise ‘all the rights, the
duties and responsibilities incumbent upon the world’s future superstate.’
The principle of unity in diversity, however, acting as pivot in world govern­
ment will devolve upon national and local bodies much responsibility, but
not with the unrestricted sovereignty which nation-states enjoy today.21

Shahbaz Fatheazam
In such an arrangement, the idea of politics undergoes a radical transfor­
mation. As society interacts with the spiritual evolution of individuals in
accordance with enunciated ethical and social principles currently being
applied, disagreement about the ends becomes ever so remote (“The
principle of the oneness of mankind…calls for…a world organically unified
in all the essential aspects of its life…infinite in the diversity of the national
characteristics of its federated states.”22). With no universal disagreement
on ends, discord cannot thrive and politics, as understood today, loses
much of its meaning. The political question becomes a merely technical
one, about means, and how these should be settled, a bit like arguments
between engineers and doctors. If all agree on a common policy and all
‘spontaneously’ agree on what that policy should be, as Bahá’í Administra­
tive Order is inclined to pursue, in such a situation, the argument continues,
the only activity required is the execution of policy —a simple matter of
administration in its most mechanical and narrow sense (pure governmen­
tal activity) and the cycle of political activity ceases. It invites the situation
of political rest and not political unrest. Such a line of reasoning is not
incorrect but requires qualification. “Clearly the establishment of the
Kingdom of God on earth is a ‘political’ enterprise and the teachings of the
Faith are filled with ‘political’ principles — using the word in the sense of
the science of government and the organization of human society. At the
same time the Bahá’í world community repeatedly and emphatically denies
being a ‘political’ organization… Bahá’ís are following a completely different
path from that usually followed by those who wish to reform society. They
eschew political methods towards the achievement of their aims, and con­
centrate on revitalizing the hearts, minds and behavior of people and on
presenting a working model as evidence of the reality and practicality of
the way of life they propound.”23 The new politics connotes a special case
of the exercise of power profoundly revised. Bahá’ís are not in the exploit of
attempting to change the conduct of others in their own desired direction
nor to make their own views prevail — both correctly denote power. “Our
mission’, Bahá’u’lláh asserts, ‘is to seize and possess the hearts of men”.24
And the mission of Bahá’í institutions “does not comprise a series of specific

The Last Refuge: Part 2
answers to current problems, but rather the illumination of an entirely new
way of life. Without this way of life the problems are insoluble; with it they
will either not arise or, if they arise, can be resolved.”25 Bahá’u’lláh demands
an interfaith dialogue, aimed to serve the highest purpose of religion, namely
“to safeguard the interests and promote the unity of the human race, and
to foster the spirit of love and fellowship amongst men”26 and warns against
proselytization. What all this infers is that the term power should refer to
the whole spectrum of influence being brought to bear upon an individual
to move his or her life in a required direction. To use the power of love
or the power of the recreative Word in the same vein as in the context
of politics is wrong, as in the Weberian sense of controlling the behavior
of others despite opposition with the most direct source of power being
coercion. This other, broader, view is equating belief to the institutional
modalities of sanctions. But even the various modalities assumed — love,
persuasion, rewards and punishment — are really not the only modalities for
exercising power. Desired change may be induced by authority. Authority
is also a source of power. It is not sermonizing to say that one of the most
influential means of getting others to behave in the way required ‘to carry
forward an ever-advancing civilization’ is to invest the policy with authority,
with a degree of moral acceptability. In the Bahá’í context, moral accept­
ability exists as much as by reason of its source, no less than God and His
Manifestation for this Day (“The bedrock on which this Administrative
Order is founded is God’s immutable Purpose for mankind in this day. The
Source from which it derives its inspiration is no one less than Bahá’u’lláh
Himself.”)27, as by reason of the nobility of anticipated results, conducive
to the general welfare, happiness, and greatness of human society (“… to
ensure the peace and tranquility of mankind, and provide all the means
by which they can be established”28), exhorting all mankind to participate
in the development of a global civilization. The greater the authority, the
less need to employ other modalities of power. A reason why historically
politics has generated such arduous, protracted and, yes, bloody struggles,
is because the distinguishing mark of the state — that ‘territorially delimited
population who accept a common organ of government’ — is its high degree

Shahbaz Fatheazam
of compulsiveness and the motive behind why the modalities of power
have shifted so often to the other end of the power spectrum —coercion.
As a corollary, stable and effective exercise of government depends on
that which is derived from authority. As guidance of Bahá’í institutions is
seen as proceeding from persons who — no matter whether it is logical or
reasonable or justifiable by any objective criterion — are believed to be
persons with a moral right to issue it, then, for those to whom guidance is
given, there emerges a moral duty to obey it.29 This is the secret of Bahá’í
administration. The ‘esteem’ and ‘real affection’ which believers attach to
their legally elected representatives is the sentiment which holds together
the framework of this vast Administrative Order and itself the fruit of a
universal consciousness “…that the keynote of the Cause of God is not dic­
tatorial authority but humble fellowship, not arbitrary power, but the spirit
of frank and loving consultation. Nothing short of the spirit of a true Bahá’í
can hope to reconcile the principles of mercy and justice, of freedom and
submission, of the sanctity of the right of the individual and of self-surren­
der, of vigilance, discretion and prudence on the one hand, and fellowship,
candor, and courage on the other.”30
Authority in the Bahá’í Faith has a reservoir of public support which is in­
exhaustible. This is understandable predicated as it is upon what has been
termed the miranda and the credenda of power: the things that arouse
favorable emotional responses (‘miranda’ or things to be admired) and the
rationalizations that contain the reasons which oblige the intellect to give
assent (‘credenda’ or things to be believed).31 The human forces of admi­
ration and personal belief in the Bahá’í community act as lubricants in the
mechanics of administration and act as true antidotes to the ‘arid secu­
larization’ which may infect it if ‘divorced from the animating spirit of the
Cause.’ There are many aspects in Bahá’í institutional life that provide vivid
examples of this sway between the two alternating states of awareness —
the emotional appeal and the rational and legitimate features of an order
which allow a systematic explanation of why people should obey and give
assent to the continuance of authority. Here we shall mention two of the

The Last Refuge: Part 2
most compelling: (1) the procedure of voting and the election process and;
(2) the conferred infallibility of the Universal House of Justice.32
Because of the absence of clergy in the Bahá’í Faith, Bahá’í communities are
governed by regularly elected representative institutions at local, regional
(in some areas), national, and international levels. For many students of
politics, the most surprising feature of Bahá’í elections is that they are
conducted without nominations, competitive campaigns, voting coalitions,
or parties. Bahá’í elections are governed by formal institutional rules and
informal norms that specifically prohibit such familiar features of the political
landscape. The question is why Bahá’í elections are governed by these rules
and norms. The answer lies in the distinctive values that are the foundation
for the rules and norms. Bahá’í Administration “…is the ideal instrument to
make spiritual laws function properly in the material affairs of this world”33.
This acknowledges the fact that the key to prosperity and stability is sound
government but that beyond the hidden institutional foundations of rights,
rule of law, and basic political order, a purified spirit must exist. Given that
the Spiritual Assembly is a ‘gift of God’34 within each community and the
Bahá’í community continually expands, administrators and decision-makers
are challenged to stretch mind and spirit to encompass new and evolving
requirements. This makes it absolutely necessary that ‘every one should
conscientiously take an active part in the election of these Assemblies’, and
makes of voting both a responsibility and an opportunity. This refers not
just to participating actively in Bahá’í elections but in elections as a whole
as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was wont to encourage: “…it is necessary that the citizens
shall take part in elections. This is a necessary matter and no excuse from it
is possible. My object in telling the believers that they should not interfere
in the affairs of government is this: that they should not make any trouble
and that they should not move against the opinion of the government, but
obedience to the laws…is necessary.”35 Bahá’ís are not invited to participate
in party politics but are exhorted to obey government and are strictly to
abstain “…from associating themselves, whether by word or deed, with
the political pursuits of their respective nations, with the policies of their

Shahbaz Fatheazam
governments and the schemes and programmes of parties and factions…”36
Such platforms are divisive, corrupt, and inflaming — of little appeal to
a new race of man convinced that conflicts are solved only by peaceful
means (“Without such unity, rest and comfort, peace and universal recon­
ciliation are unachievable”37). It can be argued that political parties have
only developed in Western democracy because of an absence of social
solidarity. Their absence is a boon for a serving community with no partisan
weighting in the distribution of this service. Voting becomes an important
part of Bahá’í community life and the adult Bahá’í must see himself as an
‘intelligent, well-informed and responsible elector’ because institutions
matter, long recognized as such by economists and political scientists alike.
For example, poor countries are poor not because they lack resources, but
because they lack effective political institutions.38 Bahá’í Administrative
Order, through its unifying and harmonizing functions, has been estab­
lished precisely to make firm and strong “…the foundation of fairness and
justice…that all regions of the world may become even as Paradise itself.”39
With this exhortation of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in mind, participating in building insti­
tutional capacity through the very first formal acts of voting and elections,
really becomes a spiritual privilege, much more significant than simply
exercising civic pride, especially when knowing that “institutions invested
with authority see themselves as instruments for nurturing human potential,
ensuring its unfoldment along avenues productive and meritorious.”40 The
conduct of Bahá’í elections, when properly studied and applied, portrays
an aspect of an organic unity of the spiritual and the material necessary to
the construction of a mature society in this new Age. “In no other system do
individuals exercise such a breadth of freedom in the electoral process.”41
When politics no longer serves special interest groups, the nature of
political decision making must also be different. When power is needed to
order human affairs but the struggle for power threatens to destroy society,
a new process must exist to resolve this paradox. A searching modus
operandi which successfully addresses both dilemmas is Bahá’í consulta­
tion. In Bahá’í consultation we find a new method for searching out truth

The Last Refuge: Part 2
and a ‘rational instrument for the joint definition of goals and for their joint
realization’ —a perfect gift of mercy where divine assistance is vouchsafed
to the reliant and the pure-hearted and the Holy Spirit assuredly present
in meetings ‘organized for the purpose of unity and concord’. The authority
of the Universal House of Justice is further exalted above this universal
measure of divine confirmation with the consecrated assurance that it is
“the source of all good and freed from all error”42, sheltered with infallibil­
ity. Infallibility, in this case, becomes an attribute of authority and not its
separate. Authority and inspiration, together, enable the House of Justice to
guide the Cause of God and to discharge its functions. The legal authority
of the Supreme Body is derived from the ordinance of Bahá’u’lláh Himself
and the fact that its decisions and command “will be guarded from mistake”
[Some Answered Questions, 172], makes infallibility as much the cause and
substance of the capital seat of authority as authority itself. The sovereignty
of the institution is divinely ordained and its laws divinely inspired. Evincing
confidence, then, in such a promise of the Manifestation of God to protect
His community is surely a better route than convincing oneself (or others)
as to all the provisions and safeguards of the Universal House of Justice. In
other words, this subject fulfils the conditions of great story better than any
other, for, more than any other, it leaves things which we have yet to find or
are unable to ever find. The closing is never final because as soon as we put
into words “that which the Tongue of Utterance hath spoken in the Kingdom
of His knowledge…” [Epistle to Son of the Wolf, 1] we falsify it.
“Virtually every problem which is blamed on a deficiency of structure is, in
fact, traceable to a defect in the manner in which the individual believers
understand and implement the administrative principles of the Faith.”43
Notwithstanding its infallibility44 and the nature of its authority, the
Universal House of Justice neither eschews the principle of consultation
nor dismisses the inquiries of the believers with impatience or indifference
or permits a climate of intolerance. In the process of consultation the House
of Justice wants to be provided with facts when called upon to render a

Shahbaz Fatheazam
decision and it may well change its decision when new facts emerge. “[The]
Universal House of Justice is not omniscient.”45 As to its compassion and
forbearance in attending the infinite petition or queries of the believers,
this letter gives a sample: “The friends should learn to radiantly accept such
decisions and if, as a result, at any given time a certain point of guidance is
unclear, they assuredly have the right to seek clarification or verification.”46
In the very early days of its existence, the newly established House, was in
constant consultation with the Hands of the Cause in the Holy Land and
from the tone of their earliest communication, a marked cordiality charac­
terized these meetings.
To the Hands of the Cause of God Residing in the Holy Land
May 26, 1963
Beloved Friends,
We have been most grateful for the consultations we were able to
have with you over the past two days, and look forward to others in
the coming weeks as the process of our taking over the administrative
work of the Cause progresses….
[Ministry of the Custodians, Page 428]
Consultation of the infallible Body with specialists, with the high and low,
continues to this day, even as it never ceases to explain and elucidate ‘all
important fundamental questions’. Set against this background, the absence
of an aura of omniscience is not only a reassuring and wonderful contrast
but a true reflection of the principle of balance and moderation evidenced
in the Faith of God. Somewhere between the two terms of justice and
mercy there are links uniting the two. The Universal House of Justice may
well be its official designation but mercy gives it its fullness. Mercy is not a
relaxation of justice but its exaltation. Its opposite is also true, restating C.S.
Lewis that ‘mercy, detached from justice, grows unmerciful.’

The Last Refuge: Part 2
If time never remains the same and change is a necessary and an essential
attribute of this world, adaptability becomes a criterion for measuring
the degree of development of institutions, that is, the more adaptable
an institution is the more developed it will be. Such an organization best
evaluates a changing external environment and modifies not just its own
internal procedures but legislation in general as a response. To quote an
influential intellectual: “Adaptable institutions are the ones that survive.”47
The World Order of Bahá’u’llah, of which the Administrative Order is its
‘nucleus’ and ‘pattern’, allows itself to adapt to changing conditions in the
world through the unfamiliar dichotomy of ‘immutability’ and ‘elasticity’
— the unity of doctrine and the unity of administration, respectively. Two
premises, one conclusion. “Unity of doctrine is maintained by the existence
of the authentic texts of Scripture and the voluminous interpretations of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi, together with absolute prohibition against
anyone propounding authoritative or inspired interpretations or usurping
the function of the Guardian. Unity of administration is assured by the
authority of the Universal House of Justice”,48 to legislate on matters not
expressly revealed in the Bahá’í Writings — legislation, to be sure, that “…is
not about what we should believe, merely about what we must do.”49 “Its
pronouncements, which are susceptible of amendment or abrogation by the
House of Justice itself, serve to supplement and apply the Law of God.”50
Shoghi Effendi concludes: “Such is the immutability of His revealed Word.
Such is the elasticity which characterizes the functions of His appointed
ministers. The first preserves the identity of His faith, and guards the integrity
of His law. The second enables it, even as a living organism, to expand and
adapt itself to the needs and requirements of an ever-changing society.”51
The conviction that Bahá’í institutions are important rests on the fact that in
their absence, spirit will dissipate: form must exist for spirit to continue to
operate. On the global level, the agency of the Universal House of Justice
has been ordained “… to ensure the continuity of that divinely-appointed
authority which flows from the Source of the Faith, to safeguard the unity
of its followers, and to maintain the integrity and flexibility of its teachings.”

Shahbaz Fatheazam
[Constitution, 4]. On the micro-level, with the division of countries into
small geographic areas, the cluster construct has seen a new form admin­
istration of growth which involves not just the Local Spiritual Assembly but
“the close collaboration of the institute, the Auxiliary Board members and
their assistants, and an Area teaching Committee.”52 Beyond these, the
leadership role of the National Spiritual Assembly cannot be underesti­
mated in maintaining the vision and refocusing the priorities before the
believers, impressing upon them the unique and irreplaceable role the
individual plays in the prosecution of any undertaking and devolving to
Regional Councils much of the expansion and consolidation work. In the
course of organic growth, we see both divine structure and infrastructure,
on all levels, are continually being tested to support the multiplication of
activities and the diversification of functions. In theory and in practice, par­
ticularly in the area of teaching, one sees the power of individual initiative
released, the flow of resources secured and coordination freed to operate.
This is encouraging as it offers the expectation that Bahá’í administrative
processes and structure will continue to evolve in response to exigencies.
All these institutions on all levels (international, national and local), ‘auxiliary
branches’ and ‘subordinate agencies’,53 these should not be misconstrued as
a division of social or political power or examples akin to distinct separate
branches or offices of state or government as implied by the constitution­
al theory of checks and balances. The traditional theory of checks and
balances spells out the idea that by distributing political functions among
different institutions of society and government freedom and justice are
preserved and no one person or group can hold all power. Power in the
Bahá’í community, as we have seen earlier (page 47), has an altogether
different meaning. So too with the concept of checks and balances which,
unlike the traditional sense of separating and spreading out power within
the state to promote justice, and this includes centralized versus decentral­
ized government, in the Bahá’í Faith the term checks and balances refers to
an altogether different dimension, namely that well balanced souls are as
important to freedom as a well-balanced constitution. This is the message

The Last Refuge: Part 2
which comes out strongly when the phrase is used by the House of Justice
in its message to the US Bahá’í community in December 29th, 1988: “Thus
there exist in the system of Bahá’u’lláh checks and balances necessary to
the beneficial uses of this freedom in the onward development of society.”
[Individual Rights & Freedoms, paragraph 27]. A utilitarian and perfectionist
view, as it were, may now be appended to the traditional political question
of separation of powers. Social stability is not just a ‘mixed’ government but
also individuals that are spiritually balanced. Religion alone can play the role
of regulator between man the angel and man the beast — two distinct hu­
manities that any government must rule. In a democratic society, to counter
the materialistic tendencies natural to man, as much depends to be done
on behalf of the angel. Religion balances the imperatives and inclinations of
human nature and offers an alternative ideal to democratic society, the ideal
of human perfection (e.g. the love of God), a good in itself regardless of its
utility. “Love and harmony, purity of motive, humility and lowliness amongst
the friends, patience and long-suffering in difficulties — these inform the
attitude with which they proceed “with the utmost devotion, courtesy,
dignity, care and moderation to express their views…” [Individual Rights &
Freedoms, paragraph 28]. That very keen observer of the democratic soul,
himself living in the early years of the Bahá’í Era, Tocqueville, seeking to
protect democracy from its individualism and pettiness, was inspired to call
on religion for that check and balance which self-interest is powerless to
achieve: “The greatest advantage of religions is to inspire entirely opposite
instincts. There is no religion that does not place the object of the desires
of men above and beyond the good things of the earth, and that does
not naturally elevate his soul toward realms very superior to those of the
senses. Nor is there any religion that does not impose on each man some
duties toward the human species or in common with it, and that does not
in this way drag him, from time to time, out of contemplation of himself.”54
NOTES
1.	 	 In a journal entry dated March 27, 1848, Kierkegaard wrote: “…I sit in a quiet room… I
recognize only one danger: the religious danger…” quoted in Robert Nisbet, The Social

Shahbaz Fatheazam
Philosophers: Community & Conflict in Western Thought, Concise Edition, New York,
Simon & Schuster, 1973, page 143. By ‘religious danger’ Kierkegaard meant the danger that
comes from failing to live within the strict and absolute authority of Christ and seeking
refuge instead in the spurious manifestations of security which fill modern society.
2.	 	 The main proponent of the theory of functionalism, Émile Durkheim saw the concept of
the sacred as the defining characteristic of religion, not faith in the supernatural. He saw
religion as a reflection of the concern for society. His book, The Elementary Forms of the
Religious Life (Les formes élémentaires de la vie religieuse), published in 1912, analyzes
religion as a social phenomenon. Durkheim attributes the development of religion to the
emotional security attained through communal living.
3.		 Arguments discarding religion as simply another political actor in society’s formation may
be found in Francis Fukuyama, The Origins of Political Order, New York, FSG, 2011, pp
442–445.
4.	 	 John Huddleston, in his Preface to The Search for a Just Society, Oxford, George Ronald,
1989, p. xiii. The implications of a just society, however, are not as well resolved and remain
controversial. Galbraith, for example, in his slim volume, The Good Society: The Humane
Agenda, published in 1996, focuses exclusively on the purely economic and material
components of the good, or just, society such as, economic growth, universal access to
education, protection for the young, old, disabled, and the environment and seeks solu­
tions in NAFTA, the balanced budget amendment, and the flat income tax. Not surprising
for an economist but especially disappointing for a brilliant mind to be so reductionist. To
say that “Nothing…so comprehensively denies the liberties of the individual as the total
absence of money” is a truism in need of a vision. Galbraith, however, wisely uses the term
‘achievable society’ rather than ‘perfect society’ because any useful, working concept must
“take into consideration the institutional structure and the human characteristics that are
fixed, immutable” and part with ideologies and rigid philosophies. Pages 2–4.
5.		 The Law of Huqúqu’lláh in the Bahá’í Faith is the complete material and spiritual ex­
pression of this concept. See the article, “Wisdom Created: The Law of Huqúqu’lláh” in
Huqúqu’lláh Newsletter # ………..
6.		 Rousseau resolves the interference of religion, a powerful compatible force to his volonté
générale, in this way: it is not enough that a nation should have a religion to make good
people but that religion be identified with the values of the nation to make good citizens.
And since all religion is spiritual, ‘occupied solely with heavenly things’ and ‘not of this
world’, no religion can ever be the religion of the state.
7.	 	 These religious teachings, to be observed, all arise from the East, Near or Far, as if the
‘Sun of Truth’ parallels the life-giving physical sun (“The West has always received spiritual
enlightenment from the East” Abdu’l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p.33). The entire Bahá’í paradigm of
physical reality rests as much on its portrayal of physical reality as transient, unreliable, a
shadowy and illusive imitation of the eternal changeless spiritual reality (“Know thou that
the Kingdom is the real world, and this nether place is only its shadow stretching out. A
shadow hath no life of its own; its existence is only a fantasy, and nothing more; it is but
images reflected in water, and seeming as pictures to the eye. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections
178) as on its metaphorical nature, that is to say that whatever exists in heaven is reflected
in this phenomenal world, as in “…a bright morning dawned and a rising light lit up the

The Last Refuge: Part 2
eastern sky. Then rose the Sun of Truth and the splendours of the Kingdom were shed
over east and west.” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selection from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Haifa,
Bahá’í World Centre, 1983, page 33. In His Lawh-i-Aflákiyyih, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá further expounds
that lower orders are images and counterparts of higher things and that there is a definite
connection between all foundational or fundamental entities of reality. For a provisional
and unauthorized translation refer to http://bahai-library.com/abdulbaha_lawh_aflakiyyih
8.		 In East Asia, for example, two main political traditions — Confucianism and Legalism — have
shaped and continue to shape understandings informing political practices and ways of
dealing with social problems. See Daniel A. Bell, Beyond Liberal Democracy: Political Think­
ing for an East Asian Context, Princeton, UP, 2006, especially Chapter 1 —Introduction.
9.	 	 The erosion of the sense of religious community in Christianity, for example, began in the
early-modern period of history, the very beginning of the sixteenth century, as testified
in the writings of Erasmus. Unlike Luther and Calvin, however, Erasmus did not take his
criticism of the corporate church to the point of outright rebellion; not for lack of personal
courage but, rather, because he felt that no religious matter should be regarded as vital
enough to be carried to the point of revolt.
10.	 Udo Schaefer, Making the Crooked Straight: A Contribution to Bahá’í Apologetics, Oxford,
George Ronald, 1995, page 445.
11.		 Bahá’ú’lláh, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day Is Come, Wilmette, BPT, 1980,
page 20
12.	 Shoghi Effendi, in a letter written on his behalf to an individual Bahá’í, dated September
30th, 1949.
13.		 It is of a remarkable coincidence that, although separated by six centuries, Christianity
and Islam divide a common geology of culture: their founding berths in Palestine (modern
Israel), and in the Arabian Peninsula, respectively, conjoin in the same region and their
Prophet-Founders, Jesus of Nazareth (although born in Bethlehem) and Muhammad,
born in Mecca, are Semite, (one Galilean and the other Arab), having had their beginnings
through the prophet Abraham. In terms of eschatology, both give hope of a spiritual
awakening: the Second Coming of Jesus and the coming of the Qa’im (the One who
Arises) as expected by Shi’I Muslims, or the Mahdi (the Guided One) as expected by
Sunni Muslims. The expectation of the coming of a new prophet, of course, also exists in
Zoroastrianism and Buddhism, the former naming the figure as the Shah Bahram who will
found a true universal religion which will unite mankind and Buddha proclaiming: “In due
time another Buddha will arise in the world, a Holy One, a supremely enlightened one…a
master of angels and mortals.” Quoted in John Huddleston, The Search for a Just Society,
Oxford, George Ronald, 1989, p. 27. Interestingly, Hadith reference both the Mahdi and
Isa (the Arabic name for Jesus Christ) simultaneously and the return of the Mahdi will
coincide with the return of Christ both figures being ultimately inseparable according to
the Prophet. Though Isa is said to descend upon the world once again, the Mahdi will al­
ready be present, testing the believers. “What will be your reaction when the son of Mary
(Jesus) descends and your Imam is from among yourselves?” (Sahih Muslim, bab nuzul ‘isa,
Vol. 2; Sahih Bukhari, kitab bad’ al-khalq wa nuzul ‘isa, Vol. 4) [See Oxford Islamic Studies
Online. Eschatology. Oxford University Press]. The homogeneity of the two faiths can also
be seen in the terrible blows they suffered close to the first millennium of their inception

Shahbaz Fatheazam
— Christianity facing hostility in secularism and subjectivism, the two epithets of the
post-medieval era we call Renaissance; and Islam, from the fourteenth century onwards,
becoming ever known as a violent and reactionary force (Timur-i Lang, in Persian, histor­
ically known as Tamerlane, a devout Muslim and feared Turkic ruler who reigned from
1370–1405, caused the deaths of 17 million people by some estimates. See J.J. Saunders,
The History of the Mongol Conquests, Philadelphia, UP, 1971, page 174). Within a modern,
purely political perspective, and in the only two examples of its kind, both the State of
Israel and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan emerged because of official religion: Pakistan
was established in 1947 and Israel, exactly nine months later, in 1948. We are not saying
that there are no other national identities not inextricably bound with strong religious
beliefs, as in many Middle Eastern States, but these two countries, especially, are the only
two historical, statehood manifestations of a peculiar religious necessity at a particular
point in time. For a succinct historical explanation on how authority was effectively split
between secular and religious authorities in the Middle East, refer to Francis Fukuyama,
The Origins of Political Order, New York, FSG, 2011, Chapter 19.
14.	 	 Francis Fukuyama, The Origins of Political Order, New York, FSG, 2011, p. 274
15.	 	 Robert Nisbet, The Social Philosophers: Community & Conflict in Western Thought, Con­
cise Edition, New York, Simon & Schuster, 1973, page 130.
16.	 	 To Bahá’ís, such recrudescence in religious community and thought, can only coincide
with the birth of the Babi and Bahá’í religions in the first half of the nineteenth century.
“What is the cause of this sudden awakening throughout the world? Bahá’ís believe that it
is due to a great outpouring of the Holy Spirit through the Prophet Baha’u’llah, Who was
born in Persia in 1817 and passed away in the Holy Land in 1892. Baha’u’llah taught that
the Prophet, or “Manifestation of God,” is the Light-bringer of the spiritual world, as the
sun is the light-bringer of the natural world…[T]hrough the Divine Manifestation, the Sun
of Truth shines upon the world of heart and soul, and educates the thoughts, morals and
characters of men.” John E. Esslemont, Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, Wilmette, BPT, 2006,
page 6. Is it pure conjecture to suppose that as the leaders of a new religion were meeting
in a small village in north-east Iran [Badasht] in 1848 boldly exposing its rupture with the
past and setting in motion the public existence and promulgation of a new world religion,
out of this same single year should come ideologies of radicalism, conservatism, and
liberalism which have guided Western social thought ever since? Marx, Tocqueville, and
Mill published their particular philosophies that year (1848): The Communist Manifesto,
Critique of Socialism, and Principles of Political Economy, respectively. We should also
mention the European Revolutions of 1848 —a series of political upheavals which remain
the most widespread revolutionary wave in European history.
17.	 	 A more recent example is Francis Fukuyama explaining that “the problem with Christianity
… is that it remains just another slave ideology…” quoted in Roger Kimball’s paper, Francis
Fukuyama & the end of history, published in The New Criterion Vol: 10, # 6, Feb. 1992, page 6.
18.	 	 The Universal House of Justice, The Constitution of the Universal House of Justice, Haifa,
Bahai World Centre, 1972, page 5. While the central role of justice in Bahá’í moral and
political philosophy is clear, emphasized by Shoghi Effendi as “a principle that must be
regarded as the crowning distinction of all Local and National Assemblies” [Advent of
Divine Justice, page 27] there has been little systematic philosophical investigation of the

The Last Refuge: Part 2
concept in Bahá’í thought, given that the term justice actually corresponds to two distinct
terms (‘adl and insáf ) from the Arabic. Refer to article by Dr. Arash Abizadeh, Democratic
Elections without Campaigns? Normative Foundations of National Bahá’í Elections, pub­
lished in World Order Magazine, 2005, Vol. 37, No. 1, page 18.
19.	 	 St. Augustine, City of God (413 a.D), quoted in Robert Nisbet, The Social Philosophers:
Community & Conflict in Western Thought, Concise Edition, New York, Simon & Schuster,
1973, p. 91
20.	 Shoghi Effendi, WOB, page 163
21.	 	 It is beyond our scope to discuss at length the Bahá’í teachings on the future world
commonwealth and world civilization. Nor does space permit us to describe the series of
transitional steps necessary to arrive at this future res publica and its associated civitas,
or civilization — humanity as opposed to barbarity, virtue as opposed to vice. A good
introduction can be found in John Huddleston, The Search for a Just Society, Oxford,
George Ronald, 1989, Part III. But we would be amiss not to quote this exquisite text on
the implications of Bahá’u’lláh’s World Order: “Let there be no misgivings as to the animat­
ing purpose of the world-wide Law of Bahá’u’lláh. Far from aiming at the subversion of the
existing foundations of society, it seeks to broaden its basis, to remold its institutions in a
manner consonant with the needs of an ever-changing world. It can conflict with no legit­
imate allegiances, nor can it undermine essential loyalties. Its purpose is neither to stifle
the flame of a sane and intelligent patriotism in men’s hearts, nor to abolish the system of
national autonomy so essential if the evils of excessive centralization are to be avoided.
It does not ignore, nor does it attempt to suppress, the diversity of ethnical origins, of
climate, of history, of language and tradition, of thought and habit, that differentiate the
peoples and nations of the world. It calls for a wider loyalty, for a larger aspiration than any
that has animated the human race. It insists upon the subordination of national impulses
and interests to the imperative claims of a unified world. It repudiates excessive central­
ization on one hand, and disclaims all attempts at uniformity on the other. Its watchword is
unity in diversity…” (Shoghi Effendi, WOB letters, 1938:41–42).
22.	 Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, Page 43
23.	 Letter to na individual believer written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, April
27th, 1995.
24.	 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings 105:6
25.	 House of Justice, op.cit..
26.	 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets, 11:15
27.	 	 Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, Page 156
28.	 Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings, Page 80
29.	 Rousseau’s maxim in Book One of his Social Contract is particularly à propos: ‘The stron­
gest is never strong enough…unless he succeeds in turning might into right and obedience
into duty.
30.	 Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, Page 64

Shahbaz Fatheazam
31.	 	 The expressions are originally from the political scientist Charles Merriam (Chicago
School), quoted in S.E. Finer, Comparative Government, Pelican, 1970, page 31, empha­
sizing the importance of psychological factors in political life and their various symbols of
identification.
32.	 One area where the two states of awareness come into conflict is the exclusion of women
from membership to the Universal House of Justice. In a letter to Corinne True in June,
1902, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá writes: “The House of Justice… according to the explicit text of the Law
of God, is confined to men, this for a wisdom of the Lord God’s, which will ere long be
made manifest as clearly as the sun at high noon.” It is intuitive to expect a lawmaker to
overrule his own rule but seems unreasonable if there is no justification stated or when a
moral rule which can plausibly establish grounds for alteration seems absent, especially
when the writings of Bahá’u’lláh unequivocally proclaim the equality of men and women,
asserting that “in this Day the Hand of divine grace hath removed all distinction. The
Servants of God and His handmaidens are regarded on the same plane.” [Bahá’u’lláh, A
Compilation on Women…] In its Promise of World Peace [1985], the Universal House of
Justice writes emphatically: “The emancipation of women, the achievement of full equality
between the sexes, is one of the most important, though less acknowledged, prerequisites
of peace…There are no grounds, moral, practical or biological, upon which such denial can
be justified.” This assertion make missing desiderata all the more keen. Or is Divine law
unlike man’s law, where we do have the need of tight, precedence-justifying arguments
that nonetheless admit latitude? That there is a differentiation of functions — be it biolog­
ical or occupational — does not infer “…that either sex is inherently superior or inferior to
the other…” [Shoghi Effendi, Dawn of a New Day: Messages to India, New Delhi, BPT, 1970,
p. 86] —the traditional differentiated roles being mothers as primary educators or fathers
as primary providers in the family unit; or the exemption of women from combat military
service, for example. God’s ordinance for men alone to share House membership is to
be taken as inviolable but optimistic in that there is the assurance that in the new age of
the future the balance of the masculine and feminine elements of civilization will be fully
demonstrated, as clearly as the midday sun, and the “distinctions… utterly removed” (The
Compilation of Compilations, vol. II, p. 371). Furthermore, service to elected positions
in the Bahá’í Faith is not a manifestation of individual power and influence, hence the
exclusion of women can never be viewed in the feuding context of inherent advantage
or disadvantage. Looking at current gender statistics in the non-Bahá’í world to provide
even the barest outline of what gender equality balance might be makes for pretty dismal
reading: the number of female CEOs is barely inching up. As of mid-August, 2012, there
were 20 female CEOs running America’s largest companies. That paltry number (4%) is
actually a record. In the UK, as of October 2013, there were only three women at the top
FTSE 100 companies. The gender pay gap is also embarrassing. On the confirmation of
Justice Kagan to the Supreme Court, President Barack Obama wrote in his White House
blog, in August 2010: “For nearly two centuries [the Supreme Court was created in 1789],
there wasn’t a single woman on our nation’s highest court. When Elena takes her seat
on that bench, for the first time in our history, there will be three women.” Just as there
were three women — a full one-third —who graced the first elected International Bahá’í
Council in 1961: the two sisters Jessie and Ethel Revell, and Mildred Mottahedeh. It is clear
that hierarchical systems that place men above women in a divinely ordained order have
no sanction within the Bahá’í scriptures. In this respect the Bahá’í Faith is unique among

The Last Refuge: Part 2
revealed religions, in theory and in practice. (It must not be forgotten that in the daughter
of Bahá’u’lláh, Bahiyyih Khánum, we find a dramatic departure of male-dominated
prophethood. She served as de facto head of the Baha’i community several times in the
absence of the Master and Shoghi Effendi — see, for example the letter of Shoghi Effendi
to the American Bahá’ís on his temporary absence from Palestine in April 1922 and leaving
the affairs of the Cause under “the headship of the Greatest Holy Leaf” — see Star of the
West XIII, # 4, pp 81–82). The Bahá’í Faith is not alone however in testing our faculties of
reason and faith (ratio et fides) when we are confronted with divine revelation. For man
to stall belief on the basis of additional evidence, as it might in a position of contention,
(“contentiousness begets contention” letter of the House 20.07.97) is to falter and vitiate
the very purpose of his existence.
33.	 From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an individual believer, June 16, 1945, in
Lights of Guidance: A Bahá’í Reference File, compiled by Helen Hornby, page 1.
34.	 Phrase found in the Naw Ruz message of the Universal House of Justice to the Bahá’ís of
the world, 1974, quoted in Eunice Braun, The March of the Institutions, Oxford, George
Ronald, 1984, page 13. The term gift should not mean we should view Bahá’í institutions as
panacea to all our ills. “Ultimately all the battle of life is within the individual. No amount of
organization can solve the inner problems…” Shoghi Effendi, in the Bahá’í Life, page 10.
35.	 See Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, http://reference.bahai.org/en/t/ab/TAB/tab–407.html#pg342
36.	 Letter of Shoghi Effendi dated March 21st, 1932, to the Bahá’ís in the United States
and Canada.
37.	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections, 77:1
38.	 Institution meaning as much organizational as Huntingdon’s broader “stable, valued, re­
curring patterns of behavior”. See Francis Fukuyama, The Origins of Political Order, New
York, FSG, 2011, page 450. A study by Dani Rodrick and Arvind Subramanian, entitled The
Primacy of Institutions, published in the quarterly magazine of the IMF, F&D [Finance &
Development], June 2003, a special issue on institutions and development, shows that the
quality of institutions overrides everything else in explaining the huge difference in aver­
age incomes between the world’s richest and poorest nations. “Controlling for institutions,
geography has, at best, weak direct effects on incomes, although it has a strong indirect
effect through institutions by influencing their quality. Similarly, trade has a significant
effect on institutional quality, but it has no direct positive effect on income.”
39.	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Wilmette, BPT, 1971, page 15
40.	 Message of the Universal House of Justice to the Conference of the Continental Boards
of Counsellors, December 28th, 2010. The reader is invited to read two excellent articles
on voting and Bahá’í elections written by Associate Professor of Political Science at McGill,
Montreal, Dr. Arash Abizadeh, that explains the criteria for voting, the distinct ethical, spir­
itual, and pragmatic values according to which national Bahá’í electoral rules and norms
are justified and which lay bare the philosophical foundations of national Bahá’í elections.
Refer to How Bahá’í Voters Should Vote, published in The Journal of Bahá’í Studies 18. 1/4.
2008 and Democratic Elections without Campaigns? Normative Foundations of National
Bahá’í Elections, published in World Order Magazine, 2005, Vol. 37, No. 1.

Shahbaz Fatheazam
41.	 	 The Universal House of Justice, in a letter addressed to the Bahá’ís of the United States,
dated December 29th, 1988, about rights and freedom of expression in the Bahá’í com­
munity. Paragraph #20
42.	 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Will and Testament, 1:25 p. 14
43.	 Letter of the Universal House of Justice written on its behalf to an individual believer,
dated February 16th, 1996.
44.	 The conferred infallibility of the House of Justice must be distinguished from essential
infallibility. The latter is an inherent attribute of prophethood and aside from immunity of
error it also implies, for the personage, immunity from sin: sinlessness, immaculacy and
moral infallibility. The infallibility of the House of Justice conveys institutional immunity
from error — it does not imply individual members’ freedom from sin or error. Subtle and
incessant intellectual activity in this one subject, however, given our incapacity to under­
stand it, is prone not to enlightenment but to self injury. The God that drew this difficult
picture, however, also enabled us to admire and to receive it. For additional reflection,
refer to the letter of the House of Justice in the Appendix as well as to Udo Schaefer et
al., Making the Crooked Straight: A Contribution to Bahá’í Apologetics, Oxford, George
Ronald, 1995, pages 166–188.
45.	 Letter of the Universal House of Justice written on its behalf to an individual believer,
Aug.22nd 1977.
46.	 Letter of the Universal House of Justice written on its behalf to an individual believer, July
10th,1988.
47.	 Francis Fukuyama, The Origins of Political Order, New York, FSG, 2011, page 450. He goes
on to say that the English system of Common Law, for example, in which law is constantly
being reinterpreted and extended by judges in response to new circumstances is one
prototype of an adaptable institution.
48.	 Letter of the Universal House of Justice written on its behalf to an individual believer,
August 12, 1998.
49.	 Alí Nakhjavani, Shoghi Effendi: The Range and Power of His Pen, Casa Editrice Bahá’í,
2006, p 15
50.	 Letter of the Universal House of Justice written on its behalf to an individual believer,
August 12, 1998
51.	 	 Shoghi Efendi, WOB, page 23
52.	 The Universal House of Justice, Learning to Respond to Emerging New Realities, Messages
from the Universal House of Justice, Palabra, Florida, 2006, p 10
53.	 The following text of the House of Justice provides a succinct overview of the various
components of Bahá’í Administrative Order today: “The Administrative Order conceived
by Bahá’u’lláh accomplishes its divinely ordained purpose through a system of institutions,
each with its defined sphere of action. The central governing body of the Order is the
Universal House of Justice, whose terms of reference are the revealed Word of Bahá’u’lláh
together with the interpretations and expositions of `Abdu’l-Bahá and the Guardian.
Under its guidance, legislative, executive and judicial authority over the affairs of the Bahá’í

The Last Refuge: Part 2
community is exercised by Local and National Spiritual Assemblies. This authority is also
exercised by Regional Councils, committees and other agencies established by these insti­
tutions, to the extent that it is so delegated. Together with the authority vested in elected
corporate bodies to make decisions binding on the community is the spiritual, moral and
intellectual influence that the Administrative Order exerts on both the lives of believers
and the work of the Faith’s institutions. This influence acquires a special character through
the services performed by those individuals who are appointed to the high rank of Coun­
sellors and by their deputies. More specifically, the Continental Counsellors and the mem­
bers of the Auxiliary Boards and their assistants are charged with functions relating to
the protection and propagation of the Faith. In carrying out their duties, the Continental
Counsellors receive their guidance from the International Teaching Centre, an institution
whose mandate is global and which functions in close proximity to the Universal House of
Justice.” Compilation, Institution of the Counsellors, 2001, p 1.
54.	 Alexis de Tocqueville, Democracy in America, page 745

The Last Refuge: Part 2
Conclusion
“There has rarely been a crisis in which Hope and Peril have presented
themselves so vividly and so simultaneously upon the world scene.”1
These words ring bitingly true today where hope, as represented in the
aborning era of a ‘modern’ Bahá’í World Community2, stands beside peril,
that seething magma of ‘liquid modernity’3; where “pervading cynicism,
emptiness, and negativity…subtly color our thoughts”4; where “consumer­
ism acts to maintain the emotional reversal of work and family”5; where
religion is feared as a “mental delusion [and] a great moral evil” (a partic­
ularly astonishing declaration coming so early from an ex-Church Minister
living in Georgean England)6; where political consciousness is no longer a
synonym of civic virtue but symbolized by outrageous partisanship, where
voter abstention (barely half of the US voting population has turned out
to vote since 1996)7 is symptomatic of apathy fed by corruption and, even,
mockery of the high position and sanctity of public office;8 where public
street protests against both government and the financial establishment
were front-page news in 2011, — the Movimento 15-M in Madrid, then with
Occupy Wall Street in New York, along with Occupy Boston, Occupy Los
Angeles, Occupy London, Occupy Melbourne, Occupy Rome and other
variants; where religion is viewed “not just amoral, but positively immoral”9;
where political debates have become the ultimate fighting championships
of verbal combat with the sole objective of attacking faulty reason10 rather

Shahbaz Fatheazam
than discovering truth (John S. Mill‘s famous ‘negative logic’); and still other
manifestations of leadership’s bloated and marred supremacy. But just
as hope cannot be prognostication nor should peril be regarded as con­
demnation. Extremes of Winston Churchill’s spectrum highlighted at the
beginning of this final section help form what the late John Rawls called
an “overlapping consensus” in which different groups of citizens accept the
same conclusions from either side and with quite different arguments.
Given the exigency of the times, to which some refer as misfortune in that
we are uncertain and without a compass, these diverse camps with their
different political hues are compelled to reconsider man’s progressive
movement, now divided and directionless and met with growing indiffer­
ence. This is the danger and contradiction of our age: it has been precisely
in the Bahá’í Era, that is during the last one hundred and seventy years,
where unprecedented democratization of political life and a tremendous
amount of political activity is everywhere apparent. But participation in
public affairs is regarded with indifference by a vast majority of the public.
The danger lies in that citizenship, so vital for social movement and for com­
pulsion to emerge, is weakened as a result. “The average citizen seems to
find the exercise of political rights burdensome, boring, and often lacking in
significance. To be a citizen does not appear an important role, nor political
participation an intrinsic good.”11 The Bahá’í Faith calls for a revival, not just
of citizenship, but of world citizenship, ‘a consciousness that can alone
provide an adequate basis for the organization of world unity.’ To bring this
to fruition, a system must exist to interact with the spiritual evolution of in­
dividuals, in accordance with spiritual principles and needs and, consonant
with the spirit of the age, a ‘planetized world’, to win the hearts and to
gain the world.12 Is such a charter comprehensive enough to confer all the
advantages of civilization, without inhibition or shrill or the leaden weight of
fideism? Or are these the ideals of a mythical sage-king?13 We leave these
questions for the reader to decide.

The Last Refuge: Part 2
We discussed liberty and found the need for it to triumph but not at
the cost of individual independence or more atomized, private citizenry.
Excessive individualism in the end advocates serfdom. True freedom is a
freedom that limits itself and yet does not lose its hold on the universal as
embodied in the principles and laws of a divinely ordained central authority.
To lose hold of the universal is to cease to place checks upon our collective
appetite so necessary for the survival of true liberty. Combined hedonism
and egalitarianism has a destructive impact on the power of hierarchy
that is native and vital to the social bond. Moreover, to say that liberty
is individuality made normative ignores the fact that we are consciously
and unconsciously, wittingly or otherwise, always enlisted into situations
not of our own choice.14 We are also dependent on the effort of others to
bring us to the point of understanding the choices we are to make. The
core of individual liberty depends on the support of others. The nature of
society is such that we, dissenters or not, are compelled to contribute, to
participate, to accept perfectly reasonable goals. But as compelled as we
are to submit to impositions, these must not be unjust. The Universal House
of Justice exists to help us to emerge as free and rational persons in com­
munities protected by the religion of God and His divine law. The fact that
we are never born fully equipped to think and judge for ourselves, however,
does not mean that our relationship with the Centre of our Faith should
be characterized by total dependency or that that our intellectual space is
occupied circumscriptive. An important area of the application of laws has
been intentionally left to the conscience of each individual believer.15 We
are told that “[r]eligion… showereth imperishable benefits upon mankind.”16
The Universal House of Justice exists to safeguard this covenant. Might
not this suggest, then, that our rights are also predefined and therefore to
speak of them makes no sense? Does such institutional omnipresence in
the Bahá’í Faith make liberty insecure? Such a line of argument is clearly
flawed as our right to freedom of mind has been extolled in the Holy
Writings and can never be, therefore, the creature of central authority in
the formal institutional sense although as spiritual beings we can never flee
from dependency and from that infinite conductor, our conscience. We

Shahbaz Fatheazam
also showed that society cannot prosper without stable institutions to elicit
the thought and efforts of its members and none of this is possible without
a community of trust and mutual respect. To accept authority as an enabler
rather than a hindrance, people must trust each other and trust requires
and engenders respect.
This study is irremediably incomplete: the range of fact is great, the fact
itself is almost an unspeakable — what is at issue is something which cannot
be put into words but which makes itself manifest, that moving nucleus
between a living relation of heaven above and earth below. And the changes
are too rapid, none the least being one’s own self altering in the interim.
Other studies on several omitted aspects must inevitably arise. But might
not further speculation on any future development of the institutions of
the Faith itself be counterproductive, a “...speculation which can only give
rise to those very differences of interpretation forbidden by Bahá’u’lláh
and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and against which they repeatedly warned us”?17 An ad­
vertence, it seems, that we cannot be artists of conjecture while professing
to be servants of truth. (The Universal House of Justice gives us a profound
yet brief guidance on this matter and which we copy in full in the Appendix
to deepen our understanding further).
Unquestionably these last fifty years have been significant ones, anni
mirabili, a “… notable, perhaps heroic time for the Faith”18 and ‘in the erection
of the last unit crowning the structure of the embryonic World Order of
Baha’u’llah’ (the Universal House of Justice). While this episode may be
considered as fundamentally the most important part of our recent history,
it is but one stream in the auspicious Bahá’í work for the reconstruction
of human society in a world grown old and weary. (“Mundus senscit”—the
world grows old—was the phrase employed by Gregory of Tours in the 6th
century to describe the twilight of the Roman Empire). Concurrent with
this must surely be the streams of “the contribution to human advance­
ment…made by individual Bahá’ís in the pursuit of their daily work” and
the many “projects and institutions for human advancement launched and

The Last Refuge: Part 2
operated by Bahá’í Spiritual Assemblies as their resources grow and the
range of their activities expands.”19 But it has been the destiny of these
early epochs of the Formative Age to blazon the birth and functioning of the
twin institutions of the Bahá’í Faith — the Guardianship and the Universal
House of Justice. They must be catalogued and rewritten extensively,20 for
the ‘psychic curvature’ is getting stronger by the day with attention, both
within the Bahá’í community and outside of it, concentrating on the World
Centre as never before — after all, the axis of mankind’s advancement is
the Cause of God and the axis of the Cause of God is protected by the
Universal House of Justice, “…the sole infallibly guided institution in the
world to which all must turn…”.21 Only when we have the book can we un­
derstand the story.22 One draft must succeed another to accompany these
changes as “…all experience is an arch wherethro’/Gleams that untravell’d
world, whose margin fades/For ever and for ever when I move.23 Nor should
this survey should not be seen as poetic lore, with jotted conversations
“overheard in the dusk, from speakers far or hid, of which we get only a few
broken murmurs”.
It is an earnest appeal against the dour prognostications of civilizational
decay made by Spengler, Toynbee, and Voegelin which increasingly find
a large and eager audience. The vaunted idea of progress transforms
itself into heresy when matched with man’s innate capacity for pessimism.
Human loyalties uprooted from accustomed soil must now find a larger
purpose to fix them. The dusk of nations is dissipated by this renewed call
to the nations. “It is towards this goal —the goal of a new World Order,
Divine in origin, all-embracing in scope, equitable in principle, challenging
in its features —that a harassed humanity must strive.”24
That final morning in May, 2003, my parents left the Council Chamber
vested in garments of light, leaving behind a life having forsaken their own,
relived in the ‘eternal city’25, a ‘legendary world framed within its own
conventions in which the characters, suffused with unnatural brightness,
perform with terrific responsiveness.’ The entire membership of the House

Shahbaz Fatheazam
arose to escort them down the Concourse and to the ground floor of the
Seat, the moving spectacle of a new regiment exchanging duty with the old.
Nearer to the Eastern side-entrance of the building a large collection of
staff, foot guards, were waiting, chanting a parting refrain of Alláh’u’Abhá.
Here, stepping into the waiting car, ended two score years of unique
service at the Bahá’í World Centre, overbearing in its majesty, overwhelm­
ing in its demand of work, overburdened in daily supervisory functions, and
overarching in the manifold tasks that Divine Providence has vouchsafed to
this, the world’s crowning institution. On this last day, we see emotions of
a matchless moment where a company of equals bid adieu —a memorable
picture, to be sure, of plain humanity amongst the trappings of divinity. In
this final exchange there is no agony, just a poignant recognition of master
time marshalling the lives of nine honorable men, ‘the men of the House
of Justice’26 trustees of a timeless and peerless institution, founded “...to
ensure the continuity of that divinely —appointed authority which flows…”27
Many, like my parents, have proven to be archetypes which aid us in the
discovery of perpetual meaning in the lives and events surrounding the
early epochs of the Formative Age28 and give us a vivid interpretation
not just of service but of a special attitude to service which places faith
in authority before, but never excluding, rational understanding.29 Such
an unusual cognitive function cannot be pinned to spots on the brain like
towns on a map but involve a complicated web of circuits which interact
with the world not like fixed parts in a machine but like the instruments
in a symphony orchestra combining their tenor, volume, and resonance to
create a particular musical effect.
Father, by virtue of his unique position, completed a form of understanding
which we are to emulate, namely, to unite the reflective attitude with very
practical concerns — the former aiming to understand the significance of
service and the latter to form a reasonable conception of it. It is only with
this wisdom that we are able to see how a nascent institution, “a House
which posterity will regard as the last refuge of a tottering civilization”,30

The Last Refuge: Part 2
successfully channels the vitality of the two agents at work — the divine and
the human. And for the human to work, one prized quality stands above the
rest, a duty placed on those who follow, a word ‘whispered privily’ in the
argot of the new man: ‘By the Lord! I found not from these idle claimants
the breeze of Faithfulness!’31
NOTES
1.	 	 Winston S. Churchill, Step by Step 1936–1939, Odhams Press, London, 2nd Ed, 1947, page 1
2.	  	 The word ‘modern’ is used purposefully to adhere to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s remarkable charac­
terization of the term in one of His talks in the West:”This re-formation and renewal of the
fundamental reality of religion constitute the true and outworking spirit of modernism…”
[Foundations of World Unity, page 11]. In the height of the Enlightenment era, some 120
years earlier, a similar assertion was made by Edmund Burke: “We know, and what is
better, we feel inwardly, that religion is the basis of civil society, and the source of all good
and of all comfort.” [Reflections on the French Revolution]. As monotheistic faiths have all
emerged outside of Europe, (see Note 132 on page 41), the argument that the presuppo­
sitions or formulas of modernizers, without exception, derive their inspiration only from
the transmitting European or North American cultures and modern states, eg the French
Revolution, the Industrial Revolution, Communism, must be contested.
3.	 	 A term used by Zygmunt Bauman in his Does Ethics have a Chance in a World of Con­
sumers, Harvard University Press, 2008, page 186, to refer to society in a permanent state
of flux “with no stable, secure island among the tides, ideological or otherwise and with
markets frail like gossamer and brittle like china”.
4.	  	 David S. Ruhe, in a paper presented at the Hasan M. Balyuzi Memorial Lecture, at the 18th
Annual Bahá’í Studies Conference, August 13, 1994, at Harvard Law School, published in
the Journal of Bahá’í Studies, Volume 6, Number 4, December, 1994 — March, 1995, p. 46
5.	 	 Arlie Hochschild, quoted in Does Ethics Have A Chance In A World Of Consumers, by
Zygmunt Bauman, Harvard University Press, 2008, page 59
6.	 	 John Stuart Mill, on his father James, quoted in Christopher Hitchens’ book God is not
great: how religion poisons everything, Twelve, 2007, page 15.
7.	  	 Refer to Michael P. McDonald (March 13, 2010). General Election Turnout Rates. United
States Elections Project, George Mason University. Former U.S. President Bill Clinton
seems to have the antidote for low voter turnout. Speaking at a convention of the
National Community Pharmacists Association in Orlando, October 15th, 2013, suggested
that “constant conflict is actually often good politics. Because the more you can inflame
your supporters the more likely they are to show up at election day. And if they’re more
inflamed than the other side, even if the other side has more people agreeing with it, you’ll
win because your crowd will show up.” Visit http://politicalticker.blogs.cnn.com/2013/10/14/
bill-clinton-politics-is-not-theology-its-work/?hpt=hp_t2

Shahbaz Fatheazam
8.	 	 In a recent survey on the prestige of professions two of the least valued and least respect­
ed occupations were members of Congress (or Parliament) and the public servant. Visit
https://conteudoclippingmp.planejamento.gov.br/cadastros/noticias/2013/3/5/bons-lide­
res-publicos-fortalecem-a-al
9.	  	 Christopher Hitchens, God is not great: how religion poisons everything, Twelve, 2007,
page 205.
10.	 There is even a popular book by this name Attacking Faulty Reason: A Practical Guide to
Fallacy-Free Arguments, by T. Edward Damer [7th Ed. Cengage Learning, 2013] used for
teaching debate in colleges and universities.
11.	 	 Sheldon S. Wolin, Politics and Vision: Continuity and Innovation in Western Political
Thought, Princeton, UP, revised edition 2006, page 315.
12.	 	 The emphasis on the word spiritual should not be taken to mean that the new society
is made only for the moral or religious nor is it to be confused with the establishment of
a ‘reign of virtue’ which has rung throughout the centuries down to our own day as the
basic theme of all those committed to politics. Rather it is trying to stress the fact that
mankind has reached a stage of maturity (spiritual evolution) and is capable of unification
in the tissue of a world community (spirit of the age) by renewing their allegiance to a
spiritual principle, namely the oneness of human race, achieved not by decree but by “the
transmuting spirit of God, working through His chosen Mouthpiece in this day…”. [Shoghi
Effendi, from his Preface in The Promised Day is Come, page vi].
13.	 	 The question is not to be seen as purely derogatory as it contains the wisdom of the most
famous Confucian after Confucius himself, Meng Tzu, or popularly, Mencius (372 — 289
BCE): “There is a way to gain the whole world. It is to gain the people, and having gained
them one gains the whole world. There is a way to gain the people. Gain their hearts, and
then you gain them.” Quoted in Daniel A. Bell, Beyond Liberal Democracy: Political Think­
ing for an East Asian Context, Princeton, UP, 2006, page 25. In the cynicism of today, this
cardinal concept has lost both its nobility and its reason, hence the appeal to legend and
the mythical sage-king.
14.	 	 Refer to Chapter 1 of Prof. Charles Fried’s Modern Liberty and the Limits of Government,
Norton & Co., New York, 2007.
15.	 	 In a letter written on its behalf to an individual believer, dated June 5th, 1988, the House
writes:”This is the age in which mankind must attain maturity, and one aspect of this is the
assumption by individuals of the responsibility for deciding, with the assistance of consul­
tation, their own course of action in areas which are left open by the law of God.”
16.	 	 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas”, pp. 129—130
17.	 	 In a letter of the Hands of the Cause to the Bahá’ís of the World, 1958, during a particularly
trying time in the history of the Formative Age, the period immediately after the sudden
passing of Shoghi Effendi, which occurred in November 4th, 1957, and published in Minis­
try of the Custodians, Page 101
18.	 	 David S. Ruhe, in a letter to Hushmand and Shafiqeh Fatheazam, dated 7th December, 2002
19.	 	 Message of the Universal House of Justice, August 1977

The Last Refuge: Part 2
20.	 A more comprehensive discussion is best achieved through a book written by an authentic
source which best leads us to that broader understanding on common ground. For this
reason, the reader is invited to acquire the indispensable study guide on the World Order
of Bahá’u’lláh compiled from a week-long study course conducted by a former member of
the Universal House of Justice, ‘Alí Nakhjávání. The notes are transcripts of six presenta­
tions made in 2004 in Acuto, Italy. Now in its second edition, 2007, Towards World Order,
contains seven chapters including a new topic on the significance of the Bahá’í Covenant.
The book is available in pdf format and may be downloaded from http://bahai-library.com/
nakhjavani_talks_world_order
21.	 	 The Universal House of Justice, Letter of May 27th, 1966, to an individual, published in
“Wellspring of Guidance: Messages, 1963–1968”, pp. 81–91.
22.	 This alludes to a description made by Shoghi Effendi on the Administrative Order in his
New Year message of 111 B.E to the believers in Iran. He likens the dots in God’s handwrit­
ing to isolated centers, letters to Bahá’í groups, words to Local Spiritual Assemblies, sen­
tences to National Spiritual Assemblies, and the book to the Universal House of Justice.
23.	 A line from Alfred, Lord Tennyson, Ulysses, written in 1833.
24.	 Shoghi Effendi, WOB, page 34
25.	 Rome, the capital of empire, referred to as such by ancient poets and writers but might
not Haifa, we may well ask, be that “…world metropolis [to] act as the nerve center of a
world civilization…” to which Shoghi Effendi refers but does not identify? See WOB, page
26.	 Bahá’u’lláh, TOB, Page 69
27.	 	 The Universal House of Justice, The Constitution of the Universal House of Justice, Haifa,
Bahai World Centre, 1972, page 4.
28.	 The idea of perpetual meaning here is to copy that particular disposition of discovering
ever higher goods. To quote Saint Gregory of Nyssa, c. 335 — c. 395: “For the desire of
those who thus rise never rests in what they can already understand; but by an ever great­
er and greater desire, the soul keeps rising constantly to another that lies ahead, and thus
it makes its way through ever higher regions towards the Transcendent.”
29.	 An achievable state of mind best exemplified by the preeminent Bahá’í scholar Mirza
Abu’l-Fada’il (1844–1914), who has been heard to comment “that when he first read the Iqan
[the Book of Certitude], as a non-believer, its deep meaning remained obscure to him, but
when he read it afterward as a believer it was the key that unlocked all the holy Scriptures
of the past.” Cited in Summon Up Remembrance, by Marzieh Gail, page 113.
30.	 Shoghi Effendi, WOB, Page 90.
31.	 	 Bahá’u’lláh, Tablet of the Holy Mariner, line 103

Part Three
Appendices
House Member Composition
Letter of the House of Justice
Acknowledgements

The Last Refuge: Part 5
House Member Composition

Year
Election
New
Observations
INCOMING
OUTGOING

Rouhani, Malitonga
Arbab, Barnes

Birkland, Hall
Dunbar, Khan

Correa, Rezavi
Grossman, Mitchell

Lample, Mohajir
Semple ¿, Martin
*2003

Grossman, Javaheri
Fatheazam, Nakhjavani ½

Barnes
Taherzadeh Ì

Membership Unchanged

Arbab, Martin
Chance, Ruhe

Taherzadeh, Dunbar
Hoffman, Kavelin

Khan
Wolcott Ì

Membership Unchanged

Mitchell
Gibson Ì

Membership Unchanged

Membership Unchanged

Ruhe
Hakim ¼

Total
 Election
 By-election
* 	 No international convention took place. Mailed ballots only, owing to “...a high state

of alert in the country.” letter HF 4.04.03 to author
Ì 	Died while surving
¼ 	Oldest member elected (at 75)
½ 	Oldest member to retire (at 84)
¿ 	Longest serving memeber

Shahbaz Fatheazam
#
YEARS
Origin
NAME
IRANIAN
AMERICAN
OTHER
British
Ian C. Semple q

Alí Nakhjavání q

Hushmand Fatheazam q

Hugh Chance q
Jamaican
Glenford Mitchell
British
David Hofman q
Russian
Borrah Kavelin q

David S. Ruhe

Charles Wolcott q
Indian
Peter Khan

Hooper C. Dunbar

Farzam Arbab

Amoz Gibson q

Kiser Barnes

Adib Taherzadeh
Canadian
Douglas Martin

Firaydoun Javaheri p

Paul Lample p

Payman Mohajer p

Lutfu'lláh Hakím q
German
Hartmut Grossman
Columbian
Gustavo Correa p

Shahriar Razavi p

Stephan Birkland p
Australian
Stephan Hall p
Zambian
Chuungu Malitonga p

Ayman Rouhani p
avg= 13 yrs
q First Elected Body
p Current Member (2015)

The Last Refuge: Part 5
Letter of the House of Justice
Discussion of the Bahá’í Concept of Infallibility
Extract from a Letter Written on Behalf of the Universal House of Justice
In general, the House of Justice wishes to preserve the widest possible
latitude for the friends to explore the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh and to
share their individual understanding of the Teachings. Yet it must be
remembered that, with regard to deductions drawn from the Texts, the
Master clearly states:
…the deductions and conclusions of individual learned men have no
authority, unless they are endorsed by the House of Justice. The dif­
ference is precisely this, that from the conclusions and endorsements
of the body of the House of Justice whose members are elected by
and known to the worldwide Bahá’í community, no differences will
arise; whereas the conclusions of individual divines and scholars
would definitely lead to differences, and result in schism, division, and
dispersion. The oneness of the Word would be destroyed, the unity
of the Faith would disappear, and the edifice of the Faith of God
would be shaken.

Shahbaz Fatheazam
The Universal House of Justice does not intend at this time to elaborate
further on previous explanations given of its duties and powers. That the
House of Justice itself does not find it necessary to do so should alert the
friends as to the unwisdom of their attempting to define so precisely its
sphere of action. Nevertheless, it should be mentioned that, while there
are explicit passages in the authoritative texts that make reference to the
infallibility of the House of Justice in the enactment of legislation, the
argument that it is free from error only in this respect is untenable. Surely,
the many emphatic statements found in the Writings, such as the following
excerpt from the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, should suffice to
dismiss any claims of this kind:
The sacred and youthful branch, the guardian of the Cause of God
as well as the Universal House of Justice, to be universally elected
and established, are both under the care and protection of the Abhá
Beauty, under the shelter and unerring guidance of His Holiness, the
Exalted One (may my life be offered up for them both). Whatsoever
they decide is of God. Whoso obeyeth him not, neither obeyeth them,
hath not obeyed God; whoso rebelleth against him and against them
hath rebelled against God; whoso opposeth him hath opposed God;
whoso contendeth with them hath contended with God….
Apart from the question of infallibility, there is the matter of authority. A letter
written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi states: “It is not for individual believers
to limit the sphere of the Guardian’s authority, or to judge when they have to
obey the Guardian and when they are free to reject his judgement. Such an
attitude would evidently lead to confusion and to schism.” In regard to the
Universal House of Justice, the same understanding applies.
Infallibility is a profound spiritual concept inherent in the Bahá’í Writings.
In meditating upon the relevant passages, the believers will naturally reach
their own understanding of the subject. Individual opinions, however,

The Last Refuge: Part 5
should not be imposed on others, nor so promoted as to crystallize into
doctrines not found in the explicit Text. When exchanging views about
the Universal House of Justice—the body to which all things must be
referred—the friends should exercise care lest they go to extremes, by
either diminishing its station or assigning to it
exaggerated attributes. What better admonition to heed in a matter of this
nature than that given by the beloved Master, when some believers fell into
disagreement about His own station:
These discussions will yield no result or benefit: we must set all such
debates and controversies entirely aside—nay, we must consign
them to oblivion and arise to accomplish that which is enjoined and
required in this Day. These debates are mere words bereft of inner
meaning; they are mere illusions and not reality.
That which is true and real is this: that we become united and agreed
in our purpose and arise to flood this darksome world with light, to
banish enmity and foreignness from among the children of men, to
perfume and revive the world
with the sanctified breezes of the character and conduct of the Abhá Beauty,
to cast the light of divine guidance upon East and West, to raise the taber­
nacle of the love of God and gather all people under its sheltering shadow,
to confer peace and composure upon every soul beneath the shade of the
blessed Tree, to show forth such love as to astonish the enemy, to turn
ravenous and bloodthirsty wolves into the gazelles of the meadows of the
love of God, to cause the oppressor to taste the sweet savour of meekness,
to teach them that kill the submission and acquiescence of those that suffer
themselves to be killed, to spread abroad the verses of the one true God,
to extol the virtues and perfections of the all-glorious Lord, to raise to the

Shahbaz Fatheazam
highest heaven the cry of “O Thou the Glory of Glories!”, and to cause the
call of “The earth will shine with the light of her Lord!”1 to reach the ears of
the denizens of His Kingdom.
The House of Justice appeals to the friends not to become embroiled in the
kind of fruitless theological discussions that caused conflict and contention
in past dispensations, lest they lose sight of their responsibility to promul­
gate the oneness of humanity and of the role of the Covenant established
by Bahá’u’lláh in uniting minds, hearts, and souls.
(From a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice dated 7 April 2008)
NOTES
1.	 Qur’án 39:69.

The Last Refuge: Part 5
Acknowledgements
This modest work has been judged by a perfect jury. In the several intervals
of revision and improvements, the learned heads of my anonymous
reviewers never shied away from admonishing a writing style which did not
go in the way it should for what it is, to whom it is intended and how the
content is meant to be used. The difficult co-existence of not entirely ef­
fortless concepts in an unspeakable setting lends to a narrative with neither
species nor genus. In the hands of a novice this can easily lead to destruc­
tion. Given that only the skilled can judge skillfulness, the reviewers took to
this vital care freely and lovingly, and always allowed me safe retreat. More
importantly they showed me that in the republic of letters there is no king
or pope but sound argument and good reason and, more importantly, given
the nature of the central theme, right words carefully chosen to convey to
the reader that obedience to conscience is as important as the argument
itself and this can only be achieved if we endeavor to follow such lights as
our spiritual forebears have lit us.
This has been a most valuable experience because it has been a spiritual
journey led by many luminaries. These wonderful figures taught me that
it is not enough to know but to preserve and edify knowledge in form, in
systematic research and writing. Over the two and a half years of the life of
this jubilee project, my masters were never far from this peccant and errant

Shahbaz Fatheazam
breed of a writer. Lost deadlines or abstruse composition were never met
by indignation, a non-existent trait in these living portrayals of selflessness
and who have proven to be the perfect thesis advisers – longsuffering, sin
covering, and never over-tasked. My debt to these notables is immense.
The title of this paper was given to me by my late father, Mr. Hushmand
Fatheazam, and to whom this work is dedicated. Still on the title page, I
am grateful to my brother Shahab who suggested an additional qualifying
inscription which goes a long way to emphasize the point that the text is
a personal responsibility with insights that are not rules nor should these
ever be imposed as necessarily true but at best be considered helpful or
enlightening. I wish to thank Mr. Nicholas Semple for his gracious permis­
sion, on behalf of his family, to allow me access to his dear father’s personal
diary and from which several segments have been incorporated from those
priceless impressions of the early days of the House of Justice, of which Mr.
Ian Semple was its longest serving member. Throughout this writing there
has been a special one who has always guided me away from disorder - my
cherished wife Neda whose rules made perfect ease and freedom possible
to pursue the project to the end. And to you, dearest mother, who never
feared disorder to begin with for the apostle in you sees beauty and en­
chantment in everything, everywhere, even in the direst circumstances,
even now with your world fallen.