THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1990-04-17

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

dear b ahá’í f riends,

tinental pioneer committees and has made new appointments. The list of

members is attached, along with statements of the present-day purpose and character of the committees and of their functions.

These committees stand ready to help you with any problems you may

have in planning the travels of teachers or the settlement of pioneers, and you are urged to make full use of their services. you should especially note

the provisions which have been made for access to the international depu-

tization fund in the financing of budgets for teachers and pioneers when

necessary.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

Continental Pioneer Committees

A statement on their present-day purpose and character

(january 1990)

Attached to this statement is a list of the functions of the continental

pioneer committees, as revised to reflect the current stage in the develop-

ment of these committees, the growing needs and opportunities of the

faith in the fields of pioneering (long-term and short-term) and traveling

teaching, the increasing importance of close collaboration between the committees and the continental counselors, and the cooperation of both

with the National Spiritual Assemblies.

with the rapid increase of opportunities opening at this period all over

the world for teaching the faith to the masses of humanity, it has become

essential that all possible measures be taken to ensure the swift, effective

mobilization of pioneers, both long-term and short-term, and of interna-

tional traveling teachers to meet the needs of every national community. The continental pioneer committees serve as agencies, supplemental to

the direct involvement of National Spiritual Assemblies in sending and re-

ceiving such manpower, by which every believer who arises for the service of 88.1

88.2

88.3

88.4

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

157bahá’u’lláh may be sure of receiving the prompt, comprehensive guidance

and assistance which he may need in carrying out his intention.

if pioneers and traveling teachers are to enter the field of service as rap-

idly, continuously, and effectively as the current historic hour demands, it is

vital that the believers and institutions concerned are fully conversant with those instruments which have been created to serve their needs and with

the methods and lines of communication which should be utilized. The

continental pioneer committees are one such instrument. This statement

is designed to clarify their specific role in the process, to define their areas of responsibility, and to stipulate the resources at their disposal.

The functions of the continental pioneer committees have been modi-

fied to relieve the committees, to some extent, of the information-gathering

duties formerly assigned to them, to focus more on their duties as executive

agencies in charge of facilitating pioneer and traveling teaching projects,

to stress again to both the committees and the continental boards of

counselors that close, creative interaction between the two institutions is an indispensable element in the application of the manpower resources of the

cause to the requirements of national bahá’í communities, and to remind

the National Spiritual Assemblies that they have access to the services of

the international Teaching center and the international deputization fund

through the channel of the continental pioneer committees and that these

committees are ever ready to assist them in the settlement of pioneers and the implementation of traveling teaching projects.

it is our particular hope that from time to time it may be possible for

either the full membership, or at least the Secretary, of each continental

pioneer committee to meet with the continental board of counselors

in its region for consultation concerning the needs and possibilities of the continent in regard to pioneers and traveling teachers. The purpose of such

consultation would be to ensure that areas where manpower is needed are

quickly identified and all possible steps are taken to fill these needs. The continental boards of counselors, with the Auxiliary board members and

the continental pioneer committees, should likewise be alert to the need

of cooperation with National Spiritual Assemblies in the orientation and briefing of pioneers and traveling teachers.

The continental pioneer committees have been granted funds by the

international Teaching center with which to initiate or support traveling

teaching projects which they themselves see are useful and needed. in ad-

dition, they constitute the correct avenue by means of which the National 88.5

88.6

88.7

88.8

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

158Spiritual Assemblies can apply for assistance from the international deputi-

zation f und for the support of either pioneer or traveling teaching projects.

it is particularly important that this function of the continental pioneer

committees in regard to budgetary assistance be fully understood by both

the National Spiritual Assemblies and the believers generally, especially in-sofar as it relates to the newly instituted short-term pioneer projects.

in the past, some of the continental pioneer committees have found it

useful to appoint a small number of regional representatives, in key distant locations of their continent, who have assisted them in the prompt discharge of their duties. This possibility is still open for the committees to explore.

one of the most important aspects of this subject is the requirement

for the rapid and accurate exchange of information needed to facilitate the movement and utilization of those believers who wish to join the ranks

of pioneers and traveling teachers. The continental pioneer committees

require the full support and prompt cooperation of both the continental

boards of counselors and the National Spiritual Assemblies in the discharge

of their vital functions. in turn, these institutions should be able to depend

on the reliability, experience, and knowledge of the continental pioneer

committees.

89

Deputizing Pioneers for the End of the Six Year Plan

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]