THE UNIVERSAL  HOUSE  OF JUSTICE 
Bahá’í World Centre  •  P.O. Box 155  •  3100101 Ha ifa, Israel 
Tel: +972 (4) 835 8358  •  Email: secretariat@bwc.o rg  
 
 
 
31 December 2025 
 
 
 
To the Conference of the 
    Continental Boards of Counsellors 
Dearly loved Friends, 
The first phase of the Nine Year Plan has cast a li ght on the Bahá’í community’s 
considerable strengths.  The unprecedented energy a nd determination with which the Plan was 
launched, at over 10,000 gatherings of Bahá’ís and interested friends, quickly raised awareness 
of its objectives and special character.  Swift act ion followed.  We anticipate that by Riḍván 
there will be a cluster where the third milestone h as been passed in around half of the 160 
countries and regions where, at the start of the Pl an, still no such cluster existed—a dramatic 
accomplishment.  Valuable experience has been gaine d as a result, not least through the 
dedicated efforts of an impressive number of indivi duals who arose as part of a coordinated 
strategy of pioneering.  At the same time, particul ar attention has been directed in all countries 
towards third milestone clusters, and consequently,  the frontiers of learning have advanced 
considerably and the society-building power of the Faith is becoming more apparent.  Many of 
these clusters are acting as reservoirs of knowledg e and resources to the clusters that surround 
them, and this is proving vital to the process of g rowth everywhere.  Indeed, the rapid 
movement of clusters past the first, second, and th ird milestones requires that this pattern be 
strengthened and widely replicated.  For, gratified  as we are by the progress made, it is evident 
that a most formidable task lies ahead if each nati onal Bahá’í community is to fulfil the 
aspirations for the movement of clusters that it se t for itself when the Plan began.  There is an 
urgent need to cultivate more broadly the capacitie s that are required to intensify a programme 
of growth.  The primary point of reference for this  work—and for all the work of the Nine Year 
Plan—will, of course, continue to be our 30 Decembe r 2021 message, but within these few 
pages, we will seek to present a number of insights  that have emerged from the efforts of 
communities, institutions, and individuals as they have put the Plan into effect. 
 
* 
 
In clusters and in neighbourhoods and villages wher e notable progress has occurred, no 
matter from what starting point, an essential facto r has been the capacity of the friends at the 
grassroots to learn together, combining insights ga ined from their own experience with those of 
advanced communities nearby or further afield, with out any sense of applying a fixed formula.  
Although the fundamental features of a programme of  growth—its aim, its guiding principles, 
and its basic instruments—are the same everywhere, growth is an organic process, not a 
mechanical one.  In such a process, progress depend s at each point on maintaining a clear 
understanding of the priorities that pertain to a p lace and, as we emphasized in our message to 
your 2021 conference, reading evolving realities an d adopting approaches suited to local 
conditions. 
 

Page 2 
 
 
 The third milestone is a measurement of a journey w hose beginnings are well understood.  
Once it is passed, clusters where progress has been  consolidated can be seen to share important 
features.  The institute’s programmes are being sup ported by a relatively substantial and 
expanding pool of human resources.  Effort is being  made to enable more neighbourhoods and 
villages to sustain intense activity.  There is a c apacity to embrace large numbers and manage 
increasing complexity through both formal and infor mal arrangements.  Crucially, in these 
clusters, consistent attention is being given to su staining effective cycles, so that there is a 
regular pulse of study, consultation, action, and r eflection through which the community 
enhances its capacity to grow and to contribute to the advancement of the society to which it 
belongs.  These cycles include periods of particula r intensity, an injection of energy that is 
propelling the engagement of the widest possible ci rcle of friends.  Community undertakings 
such as family festivals, junior youth camps, servi ce projects, arts endeavours, and collective 
teaching initiatives are proceeding according to th eir own respective rhythms.  Reflection 
spaces bring together many friends, and the use of such spaces is thoughtful and deliberate—
there is awareness that the quality and utility of reflection is measured by the purposeful action 
arising from it.  From these clusters, resources fl ow to surrounding clusters to help the friends 
there make accelerated progress. 
 
We have observed with particular interest how a pro nounced community spirit can 
increasingly be felt among all those involved in th e pattern of activity in third milestone 
clusters, even when it is not very strong in the wi der society.  It is often expressed as a feeling 
of belonging and a sense of common endeavour and mu tual support.  This and other advances 
at the level of culture are becoming especially evi dent in the cluster’s centres of intense 
activity—not only where participation can be measur ed as a significant proportion of the 
population, but in any neighbourhood or village whe re large numbers are attracted to the 
programmes and activities of the community.  There is a rise, too, in various collaborative 
arrangements, which are doing much to build or resh ape a shared social identity and collective 
purpose.  These arrangements include the groups of families and households we mentioned in 
2021 and also other natural groupings such as women  or youth, farmers or educators, and 
animators or children’s class teachers, often with a supportive network of friends.  Groups of 
this kind set about organizing their own efforts to  improve some aspect of the life of the 
community, and they promote broader participation i n those efforts.  In other words, they are 
helping the growth and development of the community  to become self-perpetuating, and they 
are doing so without the need for new layers of adm inistrative structure.  This is consequential.  
It demonstrates the emerging capacity of the commun ity to be a visible protagonist in the Plan.  
Buttressed by the full confidence and loving guidan ce of the institutions, the community is 
steering the trajectory of its own development with  creativity and ingenuity, and exploring how 
the principles contained in Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelatio n can be applied to the issues that confront it 
within its immediate reality. 
 
It is no surprise that the community-based initiati ves we described to you in 2021 often 
proceed from the collaborative arrangements mention ed above.  These modest but sustained 
initiatives of social action represent an area of e ndeavour which, of course, has been implicit in 
a programme of growth from the beginning; even in t he earliest institute courses, capacity is 
built for actions that contribute to the betterment  of the world and for meaningful conversations 
on matters of social significance.  In the last fou r years, the number of community-based 
initiatives emerging out of the activities of the P lan has increased considerably.  Some have also 
come about as the result of the encouragement, trai ning, and assistance of a Bahá’í-inspired 

Page 3 
 
 
 organization.  All these initiatives are more likel y to arise in places where the community-
building process has advanced notably, and we appre ciate the support that you and your 
auxiliaries, as well as Local Spiritual Assemblies,  have given to such initiatives.  The conditions 
that enable these to appear and flourish in differe nt settings around the world are being actively 
explored by the Bahá’í International Development Or ganization, including how, in time, some 
of these initiatives develop into community-based o rganizations. 
 
At the heart of a community’s progress, of course, is the institute process.  So long as the 
capacity to work with large numbers in a cluster is  still being built, it is natural for the efforts o f 
the institute to be focused almost exclusively on r aising up human resources that can carry out 
specific acts of service.  But over time, after the  third milestone has been passed and particular 
centres of intense activity have gained strength, t he institute will also devote more serious 
thought to the systematic and effective delivery of  the programmes it offers from childhood to 
adulthood, and the propagation of these programmes in other parts of the cluster.  Classes for 
children in all the grades begin to be introduced, the number of texts being studied by junior 
youth groups increases, and participation in both p rogrammes is sustained year-on-year, all of 
which gives these undertakings a higher degree of f ormalization.  Often, these advances are 
relying on the service rendered by a growing cohort  of youth.  The institute’s efforts are 
gradually being complemented by additional educatio nal endeavours for the development of a 
population, such as programmes utilizing Bahá’í-ins pired materials, as well as courses available 
in the wider society, or even, in some places, a co mmunity school.  In our 30 December 2021 
message, we expressed the hope that attention would  be given to helping young people access 
educational opportunities, and we have been pleased  to see this need being met in a variety of 
ways, including after-school tutoring and assistanc e for youth wishing to enter higher 
education.  As a broad educational path begins to t ake shape, a community feels a greater 
responsibility to stimulate and encourage each of i ts members, especially the young, to advance 
along it in pursuit of spiritual and intellectual g rowth. 
 
We have noted the benefits that come from raising a wareness in the wider society of the 
educational value of the institute’s programmes.  T his has involved efforts to reach out to the 
parents and relatives of children and junior youth,  and also to officials and senior educators 
with whom Bahá’ís are interacting.  Such efforts ar e broadening the support given to institute 
activities by the wider society, including by publi c institutions and agencies as well as 
traditional leaders.  Indeed, in clusters where the  Bahá’í community’s endeavours have 
achieved a significant level of visibility and resp ect, it is not unusual for figures in authority in 
local government, public services, and civil societ y to reach out for insight and collaboration.  
The believers and the Local Spiritual Assemblies th at represent them are open to working 
alongside the institutions of society and welcome s uch contact, while remaining vigilant to 
avoid becoming entangled in politics.  At times, we  have seen how the friends’ relationship with 
the organs of local government expands beyond colla boration to embrace a sense of shared 
mission, focused on the advancement of society—a pe ople moving as one.  In more and more 
places, the generality of the inhabitants are comin g to regard the Local Assembly as being theirs 
as well, and they see the light that shines from it . 
 
In 2021 we highlighted the possibilities that can b e realized when Bahá’í activity 
becomes prevalent in a place, and although the sett ings where this has occurred remain 
relatively modest in number, they are a steadily gr owing phenomenon.  These are specific 
places within a cluster where the society-building power of the Faith is at its most visible.  

Page 4 
 
 
 Here, the workings of the Plan are becoming embedde d in the everyday life of a people in ways 
that cannot be easily measured or described in thei r totality.  In their collective efforts and 
deliberations, the friends in such locations are in creasingly occupied with cultivating spaces in 
which people consult and share knowledge, derived f rom both science and religion, and find 
ways to apply that knowledge to family development,  education, economic activity, public 
health, and other fundamental processes of communit y life, infusing them with a fresh spirit.  
Given the far-reaching implications of what is occu rring, the term “programme of growth” no 
longer does full justice to such developments.  Alt hough in other parts of the cluster growth 
might still be at an early stage, here, where the l evel of participation in Bahá’í activities is so 
high, a new reality is coming into view as the Bahá ’í community’s relationship with society 
evolves.  Bright horizons beckon. 
 
* 
 
In the natural environment, combinations and connec tions create vibrancy and new life; 
likewise, a flourishing process of learning arises from countless formal and informal 
interactions and their emergent properties.  This p rocess is characterized by a free-flowing, 
uninterrupted exchange of insights, experience, and  ideas among the friends at the grassroots.  
But it does not end there—it continues to unfold at  the regional and national levels and beyond, 
and learning at each level is fostered by the dynam ic discussions that take place in spaces 
created for reflection on action.  These discussion s draw on lessons arising from the efforts of 
the global Bahá’í community within the Plan’s frame work as well as conclusions derived from 
the analysis of patterns emerging locally.  Of cour se, these discussions are also shaped by the 
institutions and agencies serving at each level.  F or while individuals, communities, and 
institutions all have a contribution to make, it is  the institutions of the Faith that are ultimately 
charged with tending to this entire ecosystem of le arning.  An essential requirement is to ensure 
that there are adequate arrangements in place, both  institutional and less formal, to enable it to 
thrive, and that all those involved in the learning  process are connected by loving relationships 
imbued with a spirit of humility and magnanimity. 
 
The capacity of institutions and agencies to foster  a process of learning is closely 
connected with their capacity to administer the wor k effectively and efficiently.  As the various 
lines of action in a locality multiply and interact , Local Assemblies have increasingly been able 
to meet the need for coordination and planning.  Th e Assemblies often share this responsibility 
with cluster agencies, and together they ensure tha t advice, resources, and encouragement are 
being directed to where they are most needed and th at the process of learning continues to 
advance.  The cluster agencies in particular see to  it that lessons learned in one locality, or even 
in a small portion of it, benefit the rest of the c luster.  Meanwhile, the approach to sharing 
knowledge and insights within a cluster is being mi rrored by the approach to sharing 
knowledge and insights among clusters.  The swift p rovision of support and exchange of 
experience has become possible through the developm ent of arrangements within groups of 
adjoining clusters.  With Regional Bahá’í Councils or a National Growth Committee now 
established in every country, the institutional mea ns are in place everywhere for the process of 
growth to be systematically advanced.  And at the n ational level, when the richness of what is 
occurring demands it, National Assemblies have deve loped certain structures and spaces to help 
them keep abreast of what is being learned.  Natura lly, a new feature would not be introduced 
unless the needs of growth demand it; nevertheless,  we look to you and your auxiliaries to be 
alert to when existing arrangements at any level of  the community need to evolve to meet the 

Page 5 
 
 
 requirements of growth, and then, in your interacti ons with relevant institutions, to encourage 
the emergence of new arrangements in a suitable for m. 
 
We have also noted how the administrative arrangeme nts that support the work of the 
training institute are evolving in a way that nurtu res a process of learning about the accelerated 
spread of the institute’s programmes, delivered wit h the requisite quality.  In the early stages, 
these arrangements are quite simple, but as the num ber of those in a cluster serving as tutors, 
animators, and children’s class teachers grows, the  need for them to engage meaningfully in a 
collective learning process becomes more pressing.  It is vital that they be able to maintain an 
ongoing conversation with one another, to reflect t ogether in groups, and to support each other 
in action.  These patterns of interaction develop m ore easily when the friends involved are 
accompanied effectively by coordinators and the col laborators who assist them.  Of course, 
coordinators themselves also need to be raised up i n each cluster and helped to develop their 
capacity over time, and this is generally the respo nsibility of regional or national institute 
coordinators, whose own endeavours, in turn, are in creasingly being reinforced by teams of 
friends for each educational programme.  In the las t four years, these teams have done much to 
assist the regional and national coordinators to or ganize seminars that explore the content of a 
programme in depth, enabling the institute’s materi als to be delivered to larger numbers with 
ever-greater creativity, flexibility, and agility—b ut without compromising a programme’s 
essential components. 
 
All the while, the experience and insights emerging  from what an institute is learning are 
being collected, analysed, and shared.  This work i s benefiting greatly from gatherings for 
consultation, periodically convened by the institut e, that bring together Auxiliary Board 
members, representatives of the Regional Bahá’í Cou ncil or National Growth Committee, 
resource persons from the learning site, and other individuals whose experience has become a 
valued asset.  The meetings of this collaborative g roup help to strengthen the institute’s 
connections with other institutions and agencies, e nsuring that its learning process unfolds 
within the broader context of learning about the ov erall process of growth.  The institute board 
is also fostering the strength of all other aspects  of the institute, including its administrative 
capacity, so that it can sustain a progressively mo re complex system of spiritual education.  And 
almost all institutes have now been organized into groupings to facilitate the flow of both 
practical support and valuable insights; the develo pment of these networks has proven to be an 
important strategy for institutes to advance rapidl y. 
 
* 
 
It has consistently brought us joy to see the enkin dled souls described in our message to 
your 2021 conference, in cluster after cluster and in greater and greater numbers, pursuing the 
Plan with whole-hearted devotion and, critically, a  dedication to the process of learning.  This is 
the surest foundation for the progress that needs t o be made in the Plan’s second phase. 
 
The processes unfolding in the Plan are of course e xerting a profound, transformative 
impact on the individual.  What we observe is eager  friends learning how to more closely align 
their pursuits with the Will of God.  Through engag ement with the Plan’s framework for action, 
individuals are discovering ways to improve life—in  all its aspects—for themselves, for their 
children, for their wider family, and for their com munity.  Theirs is a heightened spiritual 
consciousness that leads to a life of purpose and m eaning, a life dedicated to developing their 

Page 6 
 
 
 God-given potentialities and labouring for the transformation of society.  They recognize the 
value of knowledge in propelling progress, are committed to its generation, and share it freely 
and humbly.  Learning is a habit of mind for them, an orientation in all they do.  In every face 
they see a fellow seeker after truth.  They wholly devote themselves to the spiritual, intellectual, 
and material advancement of a population.  They are not swept off course by the world’s 
unabating distractions.  Steady do they go, patient and perseverant, pledged to long-term 
endeavour.  And in the company of many others, they are building havens of peace. 
 
It has been seen again and again that as individuals become more conscious of the 
significance of an expansive pattern of activity in their surroundings, they readily volunteer 
time and creative energy to develop it further.  More generally, believers also help their 
community by contributing to the Fund and offering other types of material resources.  While 
all believers make contributions of this kind, for some believers of means, this is a way of 
advancing the Plan that they are especially well positioned to utilize.  Whatever form a person’s 
service takes, it emerges from the unique interaction between, on the one hand, the needs of the 
Faith and, on the other, the possibilities afforded by the circumstances of each individual and 
the sacrifices that he or she chooses to make. 
 
And the believers increasingly appreciate the privilege of being able to acquaint a soul 
with the mission of Bahá’u’lláh—and, beyond this, to lovingly help a soul who stands at the 
doors of the Faith to step within.  In 2021 we drew attention to this infinitely precious moment 
in a spiritual journey.  We have noted with interest that, since then, the friends in many places 
have focused attention on how to recognize when the city of the heart is open, and on the 
conversations that lead to this moment and that follow it.  Much remains to be learned in this 
regard, both about how to discern receptivity in different settings and how to acknowledge 
when it has already matured into faith. 
 
Looking back over one’s life, there can be no greater joy and comfort than to know that it 
was spent in acute awareness of the divine remedy, that no effort was spared to proffer that 
remedy to receptive souls, and that during those fleeting years when opportunity was at hand, 
even in the midst of difficulties, every chance was seized to respond to humanity’s intense need.  
With ardour and longing we beseech Bahá’u’lláh, every time we present ourselves at His 
Threshold, for the success of all the friends. 
