THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

20 December 2005

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

With profound sorrow, the Universal House of Justice has asked us to share with you the text of the message of condolence it has just sent to the Bahá’í community of Iran in relation to the death of Dhabíḥu’lláh Maḥramí in his prison cell in Yazd on Thursday, 15 December 2005. Enclosed is the Persian text of the message of condolence as well as a photograph of Mr. Maḥramí and his wife, Mrs. Náhíd Baygí, taken some years ago.

The community of the Most Great Name throughout the world is deeply saddened at the news of the martyrdom of Dhabíḥu’lláh Maḥramí, who offered 
up his life with resignation and in submission to his Beloved while wrongfully imprisoned for his beliefs. Mr. Maḥramí now partakes of the cup of eternal life 
at the banquet table of his Lord, his sacrifice once again demonstrating to the 
world that Bahá’ís —who harbor no intention or desire save service to the world 
of humanity, the fostering of fellowship and friendship, and the establishment of universal peace—rather than being intimidated by the inhumanity of the enemies 
of the Cause, embrace with meekness the persecution that is meted out to them through ignorant prejudice. They cling to the cord of patience, magnanimity, serenity, love, and fellowship and beseech God to bestow a sense of justice and fairness upon those who wish them ill or harm them.

The lovers of the Abhá Beauty in Iran should rest assured that whatever 
may transpire along the path they are following, the divine promises assured by 
the Ancient Beauty will be fulfilled at the appointed time. The sanctified blood 
shed by the martyrs and the grievous afflictions suffered by so many precious 
souls in the Cradle of the Faith, borne through the power of their belief and certitude, cause His Faith to progress and will, ultimately, bring honor to that land and elicit the profound esteem of its people.

Kindly assure Mr. Maḥramí’s wife, his mother, his children, and the other 
members of his family of the abiding love of the Universal House of Justice and 
of its fervent prayers in the Holy Shrines on behalf of each of them, that they may, with gratitude and patience, remain steadfast in servitude at His Threshold. The prayers of the Supreme Body will also be offered for the community of the Most Great Name in the Cradle of the Faith, that its members may, with unwavering resolve and a new spirit, exert their utmost to fulfil their God-given responsibilities and, with the blessings bestowed by Mr. Maḥramí’s noble sacrifice, further accelerate the advancement of the interests of the Faith in that land.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]