The
Dispensation
of the Báb










BORIS HANDAL

Author publications
El Concurso en Lo Alto.  PROPACEB, Lima.  Peru.  1985.
Eve Nicklin:  She of the Brave Heart.  CreateSpace, 2011.
The Khamsis:  a Cradle of True Gold.  IngramSpark.  2020.
Mirza Mehdi, Ghusn-i-Athar (“میرزا مهدی غصن اطهر”).  IngramSpark.  2022.
Mírzá Mihdí:  La Rama Mas Pura.  Editorial Baha ʼí  de Espan a, 2019.
Mírzá Mihdí:  The Purest Branch.  George Ronald, Oxford.  2017.
Muḥammad:  Profeta de Dios.  Editorial Baha ʼí  of Peru.  2005.
A Trilogy of Consecration:  The Courier, the Historian and the Missionary.
IngramSpark.  2020.
Varqá and Rúḥu’lláh:  101 Stories of Bravery on the Move.  IngramSpark.  2020.
Quddús: The First in Rank, forthcoming.

The
Dispensation
of the Báb










BORIS HANDAL

Copyright © Boris Handal 2023
Published:  First Edition October 2023
Boris Handal

The Dispensation of the Ba b

ISBN:  978-0-6458963-0-5 (print)
The Dispensation of the Ba b

ISBN:  978-0-6458963-1-2 (e-book)
The Dispensation of the Ba b

All rights reserved

All Imagery (unless otherwise noted) Copyright © Baha ’í  International
Community.


The right of Boris Handal to be identified as author of this Work has been asserted
by him in accordance with sections 77 and 78 of the Copyright, Designs and
Patents Act 1988.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system,
copied in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying,
recording or otherwise transmitted without written permission from the
publisher.  You must not circulate this book in any format.

If His Holiness the Báb had not manifested love for
mankind, surely he would not have offered his breast
for a thousand bullets.

‘Abdu’l-Baha

To my daughter, Camelia Handal

Figure 1:  Map of Iran (by Pedro Donaires)

ix


Acknowledgments
My gratitude goes to the Universal House of Justice for their continuous
guidance throughout the writing project as well as to the Research Department
of the Baha ’í  World Centre.
This book would not have been possible without the exceptional editorial
assistance of Dr Felicity Rawlings Sanaei, Dr Melanie Lotfali, Dr Vafa Lalehzari
and Nur Mihrshahi.  Similarly, I am thankful to Dr Khazeh Fananapazir, Adib
Masumian and Qudrat Motallebi for their expert help with the Persian texts. I also
would like to thank Farzad Naziri and Professor Bijan Samali for assistance with
reading the Writings of the Ba b in the original languages.
I also would like to express my gratitude to Washington Arau jo, Dr Iraj Ayman,
Michael Day, Dr Moojan Momen, Dr Siyamak Zabihi-Moghaddam, Dr Christopher
Buck, Dr Stephen Lambden, Dr Grover Gonzales, Dr Necati Alkan and Dr Armin
Eschraghi for their assistance with translations, historical research, responding
to my queries or general commentary.
In particular, I would like to thank Michael W. Thomas and Dr Yvonne I.
Woz niak for their amazing and careful work editing the manuscript and getting
it ready for publication.
The beautiful illustration depicting the Ma h-Ku  fortress for the book cover
was kindly provided by Jane MacMillan.  The map of Iran was professionally
designed by Pedro Donaires.  The images for the book were kindly provided by
the Audio-Visual Department of the Baha ’í  World Centre. I also would like to
express my gratefulness to the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha ’í s of
Australia  for passing review of the manuscript.
Likewise, I am grateful to Dr Nader Saiedi for his scholarly advice and for
generously allowing use of his provisional translations.  I owe heartfelt gratitude
to the Association of Baha ’í  Studies in North America for their permission to
include the provisional translations from the Gate of the Heart and to the
publisher George Ronald for their copyright consent to include passages from
Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne on the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions.  My
special thanks also to David Palermo for sharing his compilation of authorized
and provisional translations of the Writings of the Ba b as well as for his
comments on the manuscript.
Finally, my gratitude goes to my wife Parvin for her patient Farsi lessons
during the past thirty-five years enabling me to understand in many colours the
superlative beauty of the Writings of the Ba b in the original languages.
To all those mentioned above, I offer my heartfelt gratitude.

Boris Handal

Sydney, Australia

Dispensation of the Ba b
x

xi

Contents

Acknowledgments
ix
Illustrations
xvii
Glossary
xix
Brief chronology of the life of the Báb
xxi
Foreword
xxiii
Preface
xxvii
Bahá’í Romanization of Persian and Arabic terms
xxxii
Introduction
Announced by all Messengers
When the West looks East
The Promised One has come
A new religion—the Ba bí  Faith
Symbolism in previous prophecies
Claims of the Ba b
The Ba bí -Baha ’í  Faith
Survey of the teachings of the Ba b
Part I Divine Revelation
1 God and His Creation
Essence of God
The Primal Will
The Word of God
Creation
Seven stages of creation
2 God and His Manifestations
The Primal Will and the Manifestations of God
The two stations of the Manifestations of God
Recognizing the Manifestations of God
The progressive revelation of God to humanity
The great Day of God and the Resurrection
Reaching towards the presence of God
3 Divine annunciations
Mission of the Ba b
Salma n the Persian
The Ba b and John the Baptist
The Ba b and Jesus

Dispensation of the Ba b
xii
4 The Báb as a Manifestation of God
The Ba b as a Person
First intimations of the station of the Ba b
The nature of the Revelation of the Ba b
The spiritual substance of the Ba b in mystical terms
5 Verses of the Báb
Verses, signs and miracles
The abundance of His Revelation
The Writings of the Ba b
6 Qayyúmu’l-Asmá and the Persian Bayán
Qayyu mu’l-Asma ’
Persian Baya n
The Baya n and Him Whom God shall make manifest
Structure of the Baya n
The Writings of the Ba b while incarcerated in Ma h-Ku
7 The Faith of the Báb
The purpose of the Faith of the Ba b
The act of conversion
Baha ’u’lla h on the greatness of the Faith of the Ba b
‘Abdu’l-Baha  on the greatness of the Faith of the Ba b
Shoghi Effendi on the greatness of the Faith of the Ba b
8 The universal declaration of the Báb
Muh ammad Sha h
H a jí  Mí rza  A qa sí
‘Abdu’l-Majid and Nají b Pa sha
Sovereigns
Persian religious leaders
Religious leaders
Muslims
People of the West
Mankind
9 Opposition to the Faith of the Báb
Persecution of believers
Excuses for rejecting the Ba b
Persecution of the Ba b by Muslims
Belief in the concept of finality in Islam
Divine assistance promised during persecutions

Contents

xiii
Part II: The heavenly treasury of the Báb
10 Virtues, spiritual and mystical principles
Personal ethics
Spiritual principles and mystical themes
11 Individual and community exhortations
Exhortations in relation to oneself
Other individual ordinances
Some prohibitions
12 Societal organization
Exhortations pertaining to community life
and social development
Badí ‘ Calendar
13 Some prayers and invocations
Devotions and worship
Prayers
Invocations
14 Messages of the Báb for His family
To His male relatives
To His female relatives
His mother, Fa t imih Bagum
His wife, Khadí jih Bagum
His father, Siyyid Muh ammad Rid a
Regarding His son, Ah mad
The Afna n as celebrated by Baha ’u’lla h
Part III The Bábí and Bahá’í Revelations
15 He Whom God shall make Manifest:  His station and influence 178
Greatness of Him Whom God shall make Manifest
Writings of Baha ’u’lla h compared to the Baya n
The station of Baha ’u’lla h
Proof and testimony of Him Whom God shall make Manifest
Praise for the station of Him Whom God shall make Manifest
Period between the two Revelations
16 He Whom God shall make Manifest:  Believing and accepting 201
Believing in Him Whom God shall make Manifest
Station of the believer accepting
Him Whom God shall make Manifest
Recognizing Him Whom God shall make Manifest

Dispensation of the Ba b
xiv
Ba bí s converting to the Faith of
Him Whom God shall make Manifest
Veils hindering recognition of Baha ’u’lla h
Encouragement of certain predispositions toward
Him Whom God shall make Manifest
Discouragement of certain attitudes and behaviours towards
Him Whom God shall make Manifest
Promoting the cause of Him Whom God shall make Manifest
17 Progressive Revelation—Divine Laws
Evolvement of religious laws from one dispensation to the next 220
Evolvement of religious laws within each Revelation
Messianic expectations about the Qa ’im
Implementation of the laws of the Ba b
Nature of religious laws in the Ba bí -Baha ’í  Faith
Response of Baha ’u’lla h to the laws of the Baya n
18 Transition from the Bábí to the Bahá’í Faith
Renewed interest in Babism
The Ba b as a new force in human development
The Shrine of the Ba b
Growth of the Ba bí -Baha ’í  Faith
The life of Baha ’u’lla h
The relevance of the teachings of the Ba b to a modern world
Part IV The laws of the Báb
19 Abrogation of Jewish, Christian and Islamic laws whose
annulment is confirmed by Bahá’u’lláh
Jewish laws
Christian laws
Islamic laws
20 Bábí laws abrogated by Bahá’u’lláh
Death penalty
Payment of a fine for causing sadness
Travel restrictions
Destruction of books
Shaving of heads
Waging of holy war
Prohibition against “reading certain books”
Religious shrines
Prostrations for obligatory prayer

Contents

xv
Laws regarding Him Whom God shall make Manifest
21 Bábí laws modified and/or confirmed by Bahá’u’lláh
Major spiritual laws
Laws of personal status
Burial, H uqu qu’lla h and pilgrimage
22 Some Bábí ordinances not discussed in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
Use of ringstones
Talismans and gematria
Tobacco
New personal salutations
Tattoos
Facing the sun and moon
Appendix:  Best-known works of the Báb
Bibliography
Index
About the Author

Dispensation of the Ba b
xvi

xvii


Illustrations
1.  Map of Iran (by Pedro Donaires)
2.  The shop which was used by the Ba b during His days in Bu shihr.

3.  Site of the Ka zira n gate, entrance to the city to Shí ra z.

4.  The market-street of Vakí l, Shí ra z

5.  Masjid-i-Vakí l where the Ba b addressed the congregation, Shí ra z—Entrance
door
6.  View of the Masjid-i-Vakí l, Shí ra z—Section of the interior

7.  View of the pulpit in the Masjid-i-Vakí l, Shí ra z from where the Ba b addressed
the congregation

8.  Room (left hand side) where the Ba b was born
9.  View of the House of the Ba b where He declared His Missions—Entrance

10.  The Ba b’s sitting room

11.  The room used by the mother of the Ba b—Fa t imih Begum

12.  Bedchamber of the Ba b

13.  View of the upper room of the House of the Ba b in Shí ra z where He declared
His Mission

14.  View of the upper room of the House of the Ba b in Shí ra z where He declared
His Mission

15.  View of the upper room of the House of the Ba b in Shí ra z where He declared
His Mission

16.  Orange tree planted by the Ba b in the courtyard of His House
17.  View of the Masjid-i-Jum’ih in Is faha n where the Ba b prayed
18.  View of the Masjid-i-Jum’ih in Is faha n and the pulpit in front of which the
Ba b prayed

19.  Castle of Ma h-Ku , 1930’s

20.  Ruins of the Fortress of Ma h-Ku

21.  Ruins of Ma h-Ku , 1930’s

22.  Castle of Ma h-Ku , 1930’s

23.  The Castle of Ma h-Ku

24.  Castle of Ma h-Ku

25.  Corner marked X showing where the Ba b was bastinadoed in Tabrí z

26.  The Fortress of Chihrí q

27.  The Barrack-square in Tabrí z where the Ba b was martyred in 1850

28.  The Tabrí z Barrack Square

29.  Facsimile of the Ba b’s Tablet to “Him Who will be Made Manifest
(Baha ’u’lla h)
30.  The Ba b’s Tablet to the First Letter of the Living

31.  The Ba b’s letter to His wife, Khadí jih Bagum

32.  Calligraphic exercise of the Ba b written before He was ten years old

33.  Tablet by the Ba b in His own handwriting (1)
34.  Tablet by the Ba b in His own handwriting (2)
35.  Tablet by the Ba b in His own handwriting (3)
36.  Trading accounts in the handwriting of the Ba b, March 1840

Dispensation of the Ba b
xviii
37.  Tablet by the Ba b in His own handwriting (4)
38.  A printed version of the Persian Baya n (British Museum)

39.  Mí rza  Taqí  Kha n, The Amí r Kabí r

40.  Muh ammad Sha h

41.  H a jí  Mí rza  A qa sí

42.  Dr William Cormick (1822–1877) who once treated the Ba b

43.  Dress worn under the jubbih, worn by the Ba b

44.  Cloth worn by the Ba b when circumambulating the Ka’bih

45.  Green silk robe worn by the Ba b

46.  Robe of the Ba b (1)
47.  Robe of the Ba b (2)
48.  A coat of the Ba b

49.  Sandals of the Ba b

50.  Relics of the Ba b—beads
51.  Relics of the Ba b—the Qur’a n
52.  A ring belonging to the Ba b

53.  The Ba b’s brazier and samovar
54.  Some Relics of the Ba b (1)
55.  Some Relics of the Ba b (2)
56.  Some relics of the Ba b (3)
57.  Cap worn by the Ba b
58.  A signet ring of the Ba b

59.  The Marriage Certificate of the Ba b
60.  A crystal Persian tea glass and china saucer with rose luster flowers
belonging to the Ba b

61.  A small wool money purse which belonged to the Ba b

62.  Pocket Qur’a n of the Ba b
63.  Shrine of the Ba b in Mount Carmel

xix


Glossary
Abjad
Alphabet.  A writing system in which only
consonants are represented.  Also used as a term for
the Arabic numeral system, where each consonant
has an abjad numerical value.  Therefore, words
have a numerical value consisting of the sum of the
digits for each letter.
Ab
Ab (father) e.g. Abu’l-Qa sim (father of Qa sim)
‘Abd
‘Abd (slave or servant) e.g. ‘Abdu’l-Baha  (Servant of
the Glory)
AH
Anno Hejirae (Latin, “in the year of the Hijira”, used
in the West).  H or Hijra for “after the Hijrah”, the
date Muh ammad migrated from Mecca to Medina
setting the beginning of the Islamic calendar.
‘A lim, pl. ‘ulama ’ (Pers.
var.1 ‘ulama )
Scholar, professional;—pl. learned ones; scholar (of
Islamic law), scientist.  The ‘ulama ’ are Muslim
scholars recognized as having specialist knowledge
of Islamic sacred law and theology.
A qa
Master, sire.
Azalí
A follower of Mí rza  Yah ya  (S ubh -i-Azal)
Ba b
Door; gate; chapter, section, column.  The Ba b (al-
Báb) is the title assumed by Siyyid Mí rza  ‘Alí
Muh ammad.
Ba bí
A follower of the Faith of the Ba b
Baha ’
Glory (often written as Baha )
Baha ’í
A follower of the Faith of Baha ’u’lla h
BCE, CE
Common (or current) era is a more general form of
AD (Latin, Anno Domini, “in the year of the Lord”).
BCE (“before the common era”) is a more general
form of BC (before Christ).
H adí th, pl. ah a dí th
Speech; discussion; narrative; Prophetic tradition,
hadith.  Narrative relating deeds and utterances of
the Prophet Muh ammad and his Companions.
H a jí
A person who has completed the pilgrimage to
Mecca.
Ima m, pl. a’imma
(English Imam)
A title of the first twelve linear descendants of
Muh ammad.  Title also used by religious leaders,
especially in Iran.  See Mulla  entry below.
Jina b
Threshold; a place of refuge, hence, a title of respect,
your honour, excellency.
Kha n, fem. Kha num
Title of dignitary or a courtesy title, e.g., Muh ammad
Kha n, Maryam Kha num.
Man Yuz hiruhu’lla h
“Him Whom God shall make Manifest”.  A title given
by the Ba b to the promised One to follow Him, a
reference to Baha ’u’lla h.
Mí rza
Preceding a name it refers to an educated person,
e.g., Mí rza  Muh ammad.  A title of nobility (a son of a

Fem. = feminine; Pers. = Persian; pl. = plural; var. = variation.

Dispensation of the Ba b
xx
prince) when placed after a name, e.g. Muh ammad
Mí rza .
Mujtahid
An original authority in Islamic law.  Highest rank of
Shi’ite divine.  Now called an a yatu’lla h in
contemporary Iran.
Mulla
Persian for a school master, doctor, learned man,
priest.  The title has now degenerated into a
derogatory term for a semi-literate, backward, often
bigoted village religious leader.
Qa ’im
Literally “rising”, commonly translated as “He Who
shall arise”.  Name given to the long-awaited
Promised One of Isla m.  See also S a h ibu’z-Zama n.
S a h ib az-Zama n (Pers.
S a h ibu’z-Zama n)
“The Lord of the Age”.  A title of the Qa ’im or twelfth
Ima m, and the Ba b.  See also Qa ’im.
Sayyid (var. Siyyid)
Master; gentleman; mister; sir; chieftain; title of
Muh ammad’s direct descendants.
Sharí ‘a
Sharia law or Islamic law that is based on the text of
the Qur’a n.  Muslim traditions (hadiths) are often
included.  See h adí th entry above.
Shaykh
A venerable gentleman; elder; chief; religious
leader, e.g., Shaykh Yu suf.
Shí ‘a (Pers. var. shí ‘ih)
The second-largest branch of Isla m—the dominant
branch in Iran—follows the religious tradition of the
twelve Imams (A’imma)
Shí ‘í  (Pers. var. shí ‘ih),
pl. shí ‘yu n
adjective for member, follower.  English:  shiite,
shi’ite.
Su ra (Pers. var. su rih)
A row or series.  Name given to a chapter of the
Qur’a n.
Tablet
Name given to an epistle Written by the Ba b,
Baha ’u’lla h or ‘Abdu’l-Baha .
Titles can be combined in a single name such as in Ḥájí Mírzá Siyyid Ḥasan
Kirmání, meaning a person who has made the pilgrimage to Mecca, coming from
an educated background, a descendant of the Prophet Muh ammad, whose name
is H asan, and being born in the city of Kirma n.

xxi


Brief chronology of the life of the Báb
Birth of the Ba b in Shí ra z
20 Oct 1819
Death of Shaykh Ah mad-i-Ah sa ’í


Death of Siyyid Muh ammad Rid a , the father of the Ba b
The Ba b moves to Bu shihr to engage in commerce
1835–1836
The Ba b resides for about one year in Karbila
1841–1842
Marriage of the Ba b to Khadí jih Bagum in Shí ra z
Aug 1842
Death (shortly after he was born) of Ah mad, son of the
Ba b
Death of Siyyid Ka z im in Karbila
31 Dec 1843
Declaration of the Mission of the Ba b to Mulla  H usayn
22 May 1844
The Ba b dispatches the “Letters of the Living“ to teach
His Faith
July–Aug 1844
Baha ’u’lla h accepts the Cause of the Ba b
circa Sep 1844
The Ba b and Quddu s depart Shí ra z for Mecca
late Sep 1844
Declaration of the mission of the Ba b in Mecca
Dec 1844
Arrival to Bu shihr
15 May 1845
The Ba b returned to Shí ra z and is arrested by the
governor
late June 1845
Vah í d, the Sha h’s envoy, interviews the Ba b and accept
His Faith
May 1846
The Ba b arrested and given death sentence
Sep 1846
The Ba b leaves Shí ra z for Is faha n with the governor’s
permission
Sep 1846
Governor of Is faha n hosts the Ba b at his home for four
months
until March 1847
Governor of Is faha n passes away
4 March 1847
Departure of the Ba b for Tehran to meet the Sha h
March 1847
The Ba b reaches the village of Kulayn, 40 km SSW of
Tehran
29 March 1848
The Sha h redirects the escort of the Ba b to Ma h-Ku
fortress
mid-April 1847
The Ba b arrives in Tabrí z and is imprisoned 40 days
late May 1847
Imprisonment of the Ba b in Ma h-Ku  fortress
Jul 1847–9 Apr
Mulla  H usayn visits the Ba b in Ma h-Ku  fortress
March 1848
Incarceration of the Ba b in the Chihrí q fortress
early May 1848–
June 1850
Conference of Badasht
June–July 1848
Interrogation of the Ba b in Tabrí z
July 1848
The Ba b is returned to Chihrí q
Aug 1848
Death of Muh ammad Sha h and accession of Na s iri’d-Dí n
Sha h
4 Sep 1848
Beginning of the Shaykh T abarsí  upheaval
Oct 1848
Martyrdom of Mulla  H usayn
2 Feb 1849
End of the Shaykh T abarsí  upheaval and martyrdom of
Quddu s
16 May 1849
The Seven Martyrs of Tehran
Feb 1850
Zanja n upheaval
May 1850–Jan 1851

Dispensation of the Ba b
xxii
The Ba b is sent to Tabrí z from Chihrí q for trial
19 June 1850
Martyrdom of Vah í d in Nayrí z
29 June 1850
Martyrdom of the Ba b in Tabrí z
9 July 1850
Passing of Khadí jih Bagum, wife of the Ba b, in Shí ra z
15 Sep 1882
Passing of Fa t imih Begum, mother of the Ba b, in Iraq
circa 1882

xxiii


Foreword
The Faith founded by the Ba b in the middle of the 19th century is considered
by many as the most important religious and social movement of recent Iranian
history.  While His mission lasted but a few years, and most of those years were
spent in a remote and isolated prison, yet the Ba b was able to write works
comprising thousands of pages, and through them, His message reached people
in all parts of Iran.  Many from diverse backgrounds, old and young, men and
women, clerics and laymen, peasants and scholars, joined the ranks of His
believers.
The Ba b announced the dawn of a new Revelation and the imminent spiritual
rebirth of mankind.  He initially alluded to messianic expectations prevalent
specifically among Shí ‘a Muslims, but soon drew attention to the imminent
appearance of a Messenger of God, bearing a new revelation for the people, just
as Moses had aforetime, as well as Christ, Muh ammad and the other Prophet
Founders.  According to the testimony of the Ba b, this prophetic figure, He Whom
God shall make manifest, was at the core of His message.  However, He also
addressed the most pressing social needs of the people of His time and prepared
the way towards reform, progress, and prosperity by calling for a critical re-
evaluation of tradition and of prevailing religious beliefs and practices.
The teachings of the Ba b aroused the opposition of certain powerful Muslim
clerics, who viewed the new Message as a threat to their political, religious, and
financial privileges.  The number of believers increased swiftly, and the means
traditionally employed by rival clerics to oust each other, proved insufficient to
stop the growth of the new Faith.  Eventually, a number of Muslim clerics
managed to convince the sha h and the prime minister that the Ba bí s presented a
danger to their authority.  The Ba bí s became subject to violent attacks, and
although they bravely fought back in some places, eventually they were
massacred.  Less than a decade after the Ba b had first intimated His claim to the
first believers, the new movement appeared to have been all but destroyed.  It
was Baha ’u’lla h who gathered the remaining Ba bí s in Baghda d and infused a new
spirit into the community, before He, in 1863, put forth His claim to be the new
Divine Manifestation foretold by the Ba b.
The dramatic circumstances surrounding the rise and decline of the Ba bí
Faith, but also its far-reaching influence and its potential for fundamental change
in society, motivated Western observers to investigate what they considered a
truly revolutionary movement. However, early accounts by diplomats, journalists
and historians are generally inaccurate and suffer from limited access to reliable
sources.  The Writings of the Ba b were, after all, not easy to obtain, and even then,
their study often proved difficult to the uninitiated reader.  Some writers thus
preferred to project their own religious or political agendas onto “Babism” as
they called it.

Dispensation of the Ba b
xxiv
The Baha ’í  community has sustained awareness of the Ba b and His teachings
over the past one and a half centuries.  To them, the Ba b is the forerunner to
Baha ’u’lla h, the founder of their Faith.  However, the Ba b is also considered a
Manifestation of God, since He initiated a new divine revelation.  Although the
Rid va n proclamation of Baha ’u’lla h in 1863 in Baghda d can be considered the
beginning of the Baha ’í  Faith, yet the Badí ‘ calendar begins in 1844 with the
proclamation of the Ba b, and dates related to Him are also celebrated as Holy
Days in the Badí ‘ calendar.
The history of the Ba b and His followers is considered by Baha ’í s as an integral
part of their own Faith’s earliest history and of their religious identity.  Shoghi
Effendi1 therefore edited and translated large portions of the handwritten
account of Nabí l Zarandí  about the mission of the Ba b as a narrative “of the early
days of the Baha ’í  revelation”.  He also encouraged Baha ’í s to study The Dawn-
Breakers and the history of the Ba b and the Ba bí s as a source of inspiration.
In light of such frequent emphasis and given the importance of the Ba b for
Baha ’í s, it is no wonder that many believers do not limit their interest and
fascination to historical accounts, but wish to gain a deeper understanding of
what the Ba b taught and wrote.  Although His Writings are superseded by the
voluminous and weighty Writings of Baha ’u’lla h, yet a deeper appreciation of the
true nature of the mission of the Ba b can be gained by studying His Writings.  For
Baha ’í s this can best be achieved by approaching them from the perspective of
their own Faith, that is in light of the explanations and elucidations of Baha ’u’lla h,
and also of ‘Abdu’l-Baha 2 and Shoghi Effendi—a fact duly considered by the
author of the present book.
Most of the Writings of the Ba b are now kept in archives around the world,
the largest collection of which is held at the Baha ’í  World Center in Haifa.  Only a
tiny portion of His vast oeuvre has so far been made available in translation, and
even the original Persian and Arabic works remain accessible only in manuscript
form.  Their publication and systematic study remain a major task for future
generations.  The depth and richness of the Writings of the Ba b and the
significance of His revolutionary message cannot yet be properly estimated as we
still know very little about His teachings.  One fascinating aspect is that within
only a few years, He revealed a whole new religion, with distinct teachings on
creation, cosmology, epistemology, ethics, laws and ordinances as well as
devotional practices.  And yet, from a Baha ’í  perspective, most of these were
never meant to be put into practice, but rather intended as a symbolic reminder
of the imminent advent of the Promised One He had foreseen for the immediate
future.
Boris Handal’s The Dispensation of the Báb offers for the first time a systematic
overview of some of the major teachings of the Ba b as well as His laws and
ordinances.  It has been prepared in a manner not only to be appreciated by
academics and those familiar with the original languages, but also by those with

Shoghi Effendi (1897–1957), Guardian of the Cause of God in the Baha ’í  Faith.
‘Abdu’l-Baha  (1844–1921), successor of Baha ’u’lla h and Centre of His Covenant.

Foreword

xxv
a more general and personal interest.  His book contains a compilation of many
available English translations of the Writings of the Ba b, and in addition
summarizes the findings of many relevant studies on His teachings published
over recent decades.  It thus provides its readers with information that they
would otherwise have to glean from a wide array of sometimes scattered sources.
In addition to facilitating a personal study of the divine words of the Ba b and
thereby increasing one’s knowledge, many passages will also prove a source of
spiritual inspiration for believers.
Boris Handal has produced a handbook that no doubt has been a desideratum
to all those who held a particular fascination for the Ba b and a general interest in
His Writings, but did not see a practical way as how to approach them.  Finally,
this gap is closed.

Dr Armin Eschraghi

Frankfurt, Germany

January 2022

Dispensation of the Ba b
xxvi

xxvii


Preface
I decided to write this book about the Revelation of the Ba b because I found
in His teachings a wonderful treasure of spiritual and mystical gems.
Siyyid ‘Alí  Muh ammad, titled the Ba b (the Gate, in Arabic), was born in Shí ra z,
Iran, on 20 October 1819.  The title Siyyid denotes a descendant from Muh ammad,
the Prophet of Islam.  In 1844, at the age of 24, He revealed His divine mission to
humanity as a new Messenger of God.  As a result the Ba b was forced to leave His
home town and was later exiled, tortured and imprisoned at various remote
locations.  His life was ended tragically at the age of 30 by a firing squad on 9 July
1850 in the city of Tabrí z at the combined instigation of government and religious
powers.
I first came across the name of the Ba b fifty years ago when, as a teenager, I
was investigating the teachings of Baha ’u’lla h (1817–1892), the Founder of the
Baha ’í  Faith.  The quest of identity as an adolescence generated a strong desire to
investigate alternative philosophical and mystical movements challenging
conventional truths.  I became formally a Baha ’í  when I was seventeen years old.
From the outset, I was captivated by the idea that the role of the Ba b was to
announce the coming of Baha ’u’lla h.  It had happened as in the Gospels when John
the Baptist was foretelling the advent of Jesus:  “Repent, for the kingdom of
heaven is near” (Matthew 3:2).  I easily connected to the story as John the Baptist
was a vivid figure known to me since my days of Christian religious education
both at the school and at the parish.  I also read in the Baha ’í  books that, “… the
appearance of the Báb was the early light of the true morn, whereas the
manifestation of the Blessed Beauty, Bahá’u’lláh, was the shining forth of the sun.”1
The Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h were referred to as the Twin Manifestations of God and
as the two latest Divine Messengers to address humanity.
The sepulchres of the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h are in the Holy Land, in Palestine
(present-day Israel).  I always had a special affection for that part of the world as
my paternal grandparents had both come from Bethlehem, Jesus’ birthplace, and
my eldest aunt was born in Jerusalem.  The family’s lineage included Christian
clans from many centuries ago who settled in the Holy Land.  The Handals were
the descendants from three German brothers—hence the Teutonic surname—
who came to Palestine fighting for a European crusade in the twelfth century.
After Saladin’s victory, they decided to stay in the Holy Land and married local
women.2  There were other Christian Arab families assimilating European
surnames because of intermarriages with crusaders.  Typical from these mixed-
race family names are Franji meaning Franks, Sawaya for Savoy, Chanbour from
Chambord, Rok from Roque, Bernar from Bernard, Lousinnian from Lusignan,

‘Abdu’l-Baha , The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 138–139.
See Boris Handal, “Finding the Lamp”, pp. 135–140; & Handal & Handal, Historia de la
Familia Handal.  Unpublished manuscript.  1983.

Dispensation of the Ba b
xxviii
while the Douaihi surname comes from de Douai.  Interestingly, to close the full
circle, my recent DNA ethnicity test showed a 7% of my make-up comprised
Ashkenazi Jewish blood.  From my mother’s side I inherited the Scottish freckles
and the Spanish religiosity, while my innate sense of spirituality was impacted by
influences from both East and West.
I have visited my ancestral town several times, including Jesus’ manger and
His sepulchre in Jerusalem.  More recently, I travelled to Jordan, the land of John
the Baptist.  While looking at the vast wildernesses where John the Baptist used
to wander, preach and baptize—the immense Dead Sea and the arid shores of the
Jordan River—I particularly reflected on his mission announcing the Messiah and
how he was martyred for that cause.
I have also been blessed to visit the sepulchre of the Ba b in the city of Haifa.
There, one wonders about the spiritual magic of that Holy Land celebrated as “the
nest of all the Prophets of God”1 with all justice. His remains had been re-
entombed in 1909 at a spot previously designated by Baha ’u’lla h.  The location of
His remains in Persia was kept secret for fifty years due to the relentless
persecution of the Ba bí s (His followers).  From Iran to Palestine, the remains had
been discreetly transported within a box in a litter carried by mules2 and later by
sea, thus blessing Iraq , Syria and Lebanon on a nearly 3,000 km route.3
Interestingly, I learned on my journey of truth that my grandmother had been
a long-term resident of Haifa where the Ba b is buried.  While visiting that thriving
city I was thrilled to ascend the steep northern slopes of Mount Carmel to pay my
respects to the blessed remains of the Ba b.
According to a still remembered old Christian tradition, Jesus had also
traversed Mount Carmel, the “Vineyard of the Lord”, two thousand years ago.4
Like Him, many other Biblical personages made their residence in that hallowed
highland including Abraham, Isaac, Joseph, David, Solomon, Moses, Isaiah, Elijah
and Zechariah.5
Millions of people have visited the Shrine of the Ba b since it was erected.  This
graceful edifice stands supreme, overlooking not only the city of Haifa but all the
surrounding Biblical geography.  Its superb dome has been compared in beauty
to St. Peter’s Basilica in Rome6 reflecting its splendour on the immensity of the
great Mediterranean Sea.  The institution of such an august edifice is referred to
by Isaiah (2:2–4) in the following exalted terms:

Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 183.
A takhtarawa n (Pers. Takht-i-Rawa n) or a mule-borne litter with poles, a mode of
overland transportation.
See Day, Journey to a Mountain; & Lady Blomfield, The Chosen Highway, p. 31.
Carmel (Karmel in Hebrew means “fresh (planted)” or “vineyard (planted)” (of God).
See Tillyer, Union with God, p. 6; & Cheyne & Black, Encyclopaedia Biblica, p. 705.
Javidukht Khadem, Zikrullah Khadem, pp. 279–80.
Ruiz-Dome nec, et al, The Báb o la Puerta a un Mundo Mejor.  2019.

Preface
xxix
And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord’s
house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted
above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it.  And many people shall
go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, to the
house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk
in his paths ….
Walking those magical and sacred places, I reflected on the fact that Prophets
of God such as Jesus and Baha ’u’lla h have been announced—like kings being
publicly trumpeted by heralds.  Heralding a new Messenger of God seems to be
part of the mysterious process of God’s revelations to His human creation.  The
advent of each Messenger of God is such a uniquely distinctive, historical event
that it inspires oracles, dreams and visions, is foretold in ancient prophecies, and
is even accompanied by astronomical events such as the guiding “star” in the
story of the Wise Men and their journey to Bethlehem (Matthew 2:1–2).

The Ba b represents the return of Elijah and John the Baptist (Malachi 4:5;
Matthew 16:13–16),1 and the appearance of the Promised One of Islam, namely, the
Qa ’im (“He Who shall arise” or “He Who ariseth”).  In nineteenth century Iran,
such a prophetic figure was earnestly expected by all.  Consequently, the news
that the “Qa ’im has appeared”2 spread like wildfire all over the country, carried
on foot and on horseback along the roads and streets, and through the bazaars in
towns and villages, till it penetrated the religious seminaries and homes of the
nation.  Thousands became followers of the Ba b throughout the country; and,
nowadays, the Baha ’í  community represents the largest non-Muslim religious
minority group in Iran. The premise of the ecclesiastical system was that they
ruled on behalf of the expected Qa ’im. The Ba b was therefore challenging their
absolutist theocracy by associating Himself with the Qa ’im.
More than merely producing a new religious canon, the Ba b brought a fresh
world-view of the divine, the human and the social.  Through His vast written
revelation the Ba b majestically proclaimed the fulfilment of the prophetic Great
Day of God promised in all the religious scriptures of the past.  The eternal truths
enshrined in His teachings appeal uniquely to the human soul.
As part of all things being made new, the Ba b delivered a distinct divine
philosophy, drastically changing religious and ritual laws as well as legislating on
individual and social matters, thus overturning the life of the nation.  In the words
of the Universal House of Justice:
… the Ba b came to purge and purify, to uproot the withered and spent
customs of a wayward age, and to wash away the obscuring dust from the
eyes of those blinded by illusion.3

Sears, Thief in the Night, p. 92; & Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 58.
H aydar ‘Alí  Usku ’í , Haji Mirza, p. 102.
Letter October 2019 of the Universal House of Justice addressed “To all who have come
to honour the Herald of a new Dawn”.

Dispensation of the Ba b
xxx
The teachings of the Ba b attracted fiery opposition from the establishment,
leading to His torture, isolation and imprisonment, and eventual execution.  His
martyrdom was preceded by the death of thousands of Ba bí s, a feature unique in
the history of all religions where the Prophet usually dies before the sacrifice of
the followers; and yet His Faith survived against all odds, and became known and
esteemed around the world.
At a time when the persecution of the believers in Iran was at its peak
following the Islamic revolution, I vividly remember the event held at midday, 9
July 1981 commemorating the 131st anniversary of the Martyrdom of the Ba b, with
public dignitaries attending.  In the land of the Incas and at an altitude of 4,000
metres, Radio Baha ’í  of Peru was airing its first public broadcast with the all-
subduing words of the Ba b:  “I am the Countenance of God Whose splendour can
never be obscured, the Light of God Whose radiance can never fade.”1  The believers
were weeping; overwhelmed by the thought of how the Faith of the Ba b had
triumphed so visibly over ignorance and prejudice, and this in a place 14,000
kilometres away from its cradle.2
This book, relying as it does on over 600 passages from the Writings of the
Ba b, presents a panoramic view of His teachings that highlight His position as an
independent Messenger of God, and announce the imminent advent of
Baha ’u’lla h.  Within these pages, is an account of a Personage to Whom the well-
known British Orientalist, Professor Edward Granville Browne (1862–1926),
referred to as “that Jesus of the age”.3
Extrapolating from the words of Professor Browne, the eminent English
clergyman and Biblical scholar Dr Thomas Kelly Cheyne (1841–1915) concludes:
Such a prophet was the Bāb; we call him ‘prophet’ for want of a better
name ….  His combination of mildness and power is so rare that we have
to place him in a line with super-normal men.  But he was also a great
mystic and an eminent theosophic speculator.  We learn that, at great
points in his career, after he had been in an ecstasy, such radiance of might
and majesty streamed from his countenance that none could bear to look
upon the effulgence of his glory and beauty.4
The revelation of the Ba b is like an endless and mysterious ocean.  The Ba b
calls it a “wondrous surging”5 and “concealed”6 “ocean of divine Truth”.7  You can
always taste a drop and form an opinion, either from the surface or from its

The Ba b, Selections, p. 12.
Boris Handal, The Khamsis, p. 219.
E. G. Browne, New History, p. 303.
Thomas Cheyne, The Reconciliation of Races and Religions, pp. 8–9.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 158.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 10–39.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 158.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 154.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 125.

Preface
xxxi
nethermost depths depending on your effort to plunge into it or not.  What you
encounter—its chemical composition, fauna and flora, and even its
temperature—will depend not only on the endless and secretive nature of an
ocean but also on your own inner condition and idiosyncrasies.  From some
unknown realm, the Word of God is ready to mirror its light and warmth to your
soul if only you are spiritually prepared to receive it.
Being a mathematician, I can call each of the millions of themes contained in
the Writings of the Ba b a “fractal”—one of those exquisite geometrical figures
that are never-ending and infinitely complex.  If you zoom into a fractal, it will
look self-similar without being self-same; and some, when inspected at
increasing resolution, will reveal more niceties.  The process of creating fractals
is fascinating because, deep inside their unlimited iterations, they become at each
stage down more visually appealing, colourful, dynamic and seamlessly like a
reflection of the universe.  Such a personal journey is unique and beyond
duplication.  The learning then multiplies; or rather, it grows exponentially, at
each stage immersing you in increasingly mystical depths and scope, leading to
new vistas.
I invite the reader to be part of the journey, to discover the truths enshrined
in the treasury of the teachings of the Ba b and their relationship with the Baha ’í
Faith, and to meet Him through His beautiful and inspiring Writings as outlined
in this book.  Each of the twenty-one chapters is self-contained, meaning they can
be read separately in any sequence.
As in the Gospels, there is so much energy, complexity, magic and mysticism
in the words of the Ba b that they resonate perfectly in our current times as much
as they did nearly 200 years ago.  In these divine utterances there is a mysterious
power able to transform souls and societies regardless of space and time.
Though separated from our own time by two centuries,” the Universal House
of Justice wrote in 2018, “the society in which the Ba b appeared resembles the
present-day world for the sense of oppression and for the longing of so many to
find answers to slake the soul’s thirst to know.1
The Ba b lives on in His realms above, preparing hearts and minds to recognize
Baha ’u’lla h, and capturing our love and veneration.  As the poet beautifully put it:
And therefore mine eyes will admire Thee forever,
And therefore mine ears will listen to Thee in the silence of my soul,
And therefore my heart will guard Thee in the desert of my spirit,
And therefore my thoughts hold to Thee during every day,
And as long as I live, Thy memory and Thy praise will live in me forever!2

Boris Handal

Message of the Universal House of Justice dated 30 April 2018.  See
http://universalhouseofjustice.bahai.org/ridvan-messages/20180421_001d
From the poem The Beloved Prophet-Martyr of Shíráz by Washington Arau jo (personal
correspondence with the author).

xxxii


Bahá’í Romanization of Persian and Arabic terms
Readers are advised that, as much as possible, the author has used the
transcription standard adopted by Shoghi Effendi in 1923 for Baha ’í  literature in
the Persian and Arabic languages.  This system was adapted from the standards
set by the Tenth International Congress of Orientalists held in Geneva in 1894.
Due to the lack of a uniform transcription system for Arabic and Persian
before Shoghi Effendi’s ministry, the writing of Baha ’í  terms was inconsistent.
When drawing on early texts, the integrity of the original source has most often
been maintained, although at times the correct transcription has been used to
assist with the flow of the narrative.  Hence, the spelling of some terms in this
book remains as in the original sources.  For example, the word Bahá’í is
sometimes spelt as Bahai or Baha’i in early publications or the term Bábí martyr
is written as Babi.  In several instances the term Báb is transcribed as Bab and
such rendering has not been amended particularly in the titles of books and
published articles.
The unpublished titles or parts of Holy Books such as Kita b-i-Aqdas,
Qayyu mu’l-Asma ’, Persian Baya n, Qur’a n, the Old and New Testament etc., have
been not been italicized.  The translation of some expressions, such as “Him
Whom God shall make Manifest” referring to Baha ’u’lla h, have been italicized.



Introduction
The middle of the nineteenth century witnessed the emergence of a religious
movement of inestimable importance for the destiny of humanity.  Its origin was
in the obscure kingdom of Persia in southwestern Asia—now modern Iran—
during the despotic rule of the Qajar dynasty (1789–1925).  Their kings used
pompous names such as Sha ha n-Sha h, the “King of Kings” and Z illu’lla h, the
“Shadow of God (on earth)”.
This religious movement was born on a spring evening on 22 May 1844 in the
city of Shí ra z, “the mother of all cities”.1  It immediately evoked the distrust of the
civil and religious authorities, convulsing the entire Persian population.  It then
spread throughout the Ottoman Empire and beyond to what are now Pakistan,
India and Russia.
The Person at the centre of this religious movement was an awe-inspiring
young merchant Who declared that the source of His words and vision was God
Himself.  The Ba b proclaimed Himself to be an independent Prophet comparable
to Abraham, Moses, Jesus and Muh ammad.  The Ba b’s given name was Siyyid
Mí rza  ‘Alí -Muh ammad, and He was a direct descendant of Prophet Muh ammad
through both His father and His mother.  His chosen title, The Báb, means The
Gate.  He was also referred to as the Remembrance of God and the Primal Point.
During the six years of the valiant ministry of the Ba b, He came to occupy a central
place in the hearts of thousands who responded to His call:  “I am the Báb, the
Gate of God ….”2
Announced by all Messengers
The purpose of this religious movement was to announce the glad-tidings of
the advent of the kingdom of God promised by Jesus Christ and by all the Prophets
of the past, the time of the “Wonderful Counsellor”, the “Strong God”, the “Eternal
Father”, the “Prince of Peace”; when “the greatness of His government” would not
have an end and He “will reign on David’s throne and over his kingdom,
establishing and upholding it with justice and righteousness …” (Isaiah 9:6–7),
the “day which will not be followed by night” (Zechariah 14:7).
The Ba b announced that the time had come when the prophecies of the past
were to be fulfilled and “They will neither harm nor destroy on all my holy
mountain, for the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the Lord as the waters
cover the sea” (Isaiah 11:9).  His claim was that this was the era when God “will
judge between many peoples and will settle disputes for strong nations far and
wide” whereas “they will beat their swords into ploughshares” (Micah 4:3), when
“all nations and tongues” (Isaiah 66:18) will be gathered together in “one flock
and one shepherd” (John 10:16).  The Qur’a n also spoke about the day in which

Amanat, “The Persian Bayan and the Shaping of the Babi Renewal”, p. 347.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 63.

Dispensation of the Ba b
the Lord shall come and when humanity will meet Him (78:2; 39:68–69; 83:4–6;
89:21–22).
Millennial prophecies about the land of Elam, part of old Persia that included
Shí ra z, intrigued several Biblical scholars.  A “great Prince” of Persia, said Daniel,
“which standeth for the children of thy people” (Daniel 12:1) will appear.  Jeremiah
added, “I will set my throne in Elam [Persia], and will destroy from thence the
King and the princes, saith the Lord” (Jeremiah 49:38).  “I cannot give venture on
giving any reason why Elam, or Assyria,” Horatius Bonar affirmed, “should be so
especially blessed on the Latter Days.”1
When the West looks East
In the nineteenth century, several leading historians from the West followed
and documented the unfolding divine drama.  “Many persons from all parts of the
world,” ‘Abdu’l-Baha  wrote, “set out for Persia, and began to seek with their whole
hearts.”2  Nicolas I, Czar of Russia, commissioned a report on the Ba bí  movement
to identify any political implications for his kingdom.  Ba bí  manuscripts were
acquired by the Institute of Oriental Languages within the Russian Foreign Office,
the French Bibliothe que Nationale and the British Museum and British Library.3
In 1871 the poet Matthew Arnold wrote an essay titled A Persian Passion Play in
which he declared that “most people in England have a least heard the name.”4
“Never,” Shoghi Effendi said, “in the religious history of mankind has a
Prophet of God been so highly honoured within a century of His Mission, by
almost His own generation, and with so much love and world-wide
concurrence.”5  According to the Universal House of Justice, the influence of the
Ba b:
… spread with extraordinary rapidity, reaching beyond the limits of Persia.
Observers were astonished alike by the fast-swelling numbers of His
followers and by their deeds of unsurpassed bravery and devotion.
Accounts of the Báb’s life—the swift arc it traced and the tragic drama that
ended it—induced curious souls to travel to Persia and investigate further,
and inspired a range of artistic tributes to His Person.6
Amongst those scholars was the French historian, novelist and diplomat, A. L.
M. Nicolas; the diplomat, Joseph Arthur, Comte de Gobineau; the renowned
Orientalist, Professor Edward Granville Browne of Cambridge University; the
French Orientalist and Semitic scholar Ernest Renan; and the distinguished

William Sears, Thief in the Night, p. 121.
E. G. Browne, A Traveller’s Narrative, p. 29.
Hasan Balyuzi, Edward Granville Browne and the Bahá’í Faith.
Matthew Arnold, “A Persian Passion Play”, p. 668.
Ugo Giachery, Shoghi Effendi, p. 59.
Message from the Universal House of Justice on the occasion of the Bicentenary of the
Birth of the Ba b, October 2019.

Introduction

historian, traveller and polyglot, Arminius Va mbe ry.  Many of them resided for
periods of time in Persia, and had first hand access to the history they recorded.
The Comte de Gobineau (1816–1882) reported:
Withdrawn within himself, always absorbed in pious practices, of extreme
simplicity of manner, of a fascinating gentleness, those gifts further
heightened by his great youth and his marvellous charm, he drew about
himself several persons who were deeply edified.  People then began to
speak of his science and of the penetrating eloquence of his discourses ….1
Edward Granville Browne (1862–1926) remarked:
His sorrowful and persecuted life, his purity of conduct and youth; his
courage and uncomplaining patience under misfortune; his complete self-
negation; the dim ideal of a better state of things which can be discerned
through the obscure mystic utterances of the Bayán;2 but most of all, his
tragic death, all serve to enlist our sympathies on behalf of the young
Prophet of Shíráz.  The irresistible charm which won him such devotion
during his life still lived on, and still continues to influence the minds of the
Persian people.3
Ernest Renan (1823–1892) wrote of the Ba b:
A gentle and unpretentious man, a sort of modest and pious Spinoza, has
found himself almost against his own will raised to the rank of miracle
worker, of incarnation of the divine; and has become the leader of a
numerous, ardent and fanatical sect, which has very nearly brought about
a revolution comparable to that of Islam.  Thousands of martyrs have run
to him with joy before death.  A day unequalled perhaps in the history of
the world was that of the day of the great butchery which was made of the
babis of Teheran.4
Other tributes from the twentieth century included that of Sir Francis
Younghusband (1863–1942), British Army officer, explorer and spiritual writer
who remarked:
The story of the Báb … was the story of spiritual heroism unsurpassed …
his life must be one of those events in the last hundred years which is really
worthy of study ….5
Joseph Estlin Carpenter (1844–1927), a pioneer in the study of comparative
religions, wrote:

Emily Pe rigord, Translation of French Foot-Notes of the Dawn-Breakers. p. 10.
The Persian Baya n is one of the main scriptural texts of the Ba b.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 516.
Ernest Renan, The Apostles, p. 201.
Francis Younghusband, The Gleam, pp. 183–184.

Dispensation of the Ba b
From that subtle [Persian] race issues the most remarkable movement
which modern Muhammadanism has produced ….  It, too, claims to be a
universal teaching; it has already its noble army of martyrs and its holy
books; has Persia, in the midst of her miseries, given birth to a religion
which will go round the world?1
Lord Curzon, Viceroy of India and British Foreign Secretary (1850–1925):
… tales of magnificent heroism illumine the bloodstained pages of Bábí
history ….  Of no small account, then, must be the tenets of a creed that can
awaken in its followers so rare and beautiful a spirit of self-sacrifice.2
Theatrical plays were produced in Europe such as God’s Heroes by Laura
Clifford Barney, which was published in Paris in 1910.  In Russia, the 1903 drama,
Báb, by the poetess Isabella Grinevskaya was played in St. Petersburg and
subsequently translated into French and German.3  In 1925 the French writer Jules
Bois recalled the impact of the story of the Ba b on European literary circles:
All Europe was stirred to pity and indignation [over the martyrdom of the
Bāb] ….  Among the littérateurs of my generation, in the Paris of 1890 the
martyrdom of the Bāb was still as fresh a topic as had been the first news
of his death.  We wrote poems about him.  Sarah Bernhardt entreated
Catulle Mendès for a play on the theme of this historic tragedy.4
It was The Times, the most widely read Western newspaper, that produced
the first reference accessed by the Christian world about the advent of the Ba b.
In its regular edition of 1 November 1845, an article was published under the title
“Persia”5 describing the latest movements of the Ba b and the suffering of the
Ba bí s.
The Promised One has come
Three themes in the teachings of the Ba b kindled the fury of the conservative
Muslim clerics.  The first of these was that, besides calling Himself the “Gate of
God”, He also proclaimed to be the long-awaited “Qa ’im”6 who was the Promised
One of Islam, a sacred and prophetic personage who was referred to in the Islamic
literature as Ṣáḥibu’z-Zamán, meaning the “Lord of the Age”.7  In July 1848, despite
being a state prisoner, the Ba b had imposingly proclaimed to the Crown Prince of
Persia—the future Na s iri’d-Dí n Sha h—and the high ‘ulama ’ of his court:

Joseph Estlin Carpenter, Comparative Religion, p. 74.
George Curzon, Persia and the Persian Question, p. 501.
The pen name of Beyle Friedberg (1864–1944).  See Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 56.
Jules Bois, “The New Religions of America”; quoted in God Passes By, p. 56.
Moojan Momen, The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, 1844–1944, p. 69.
The word Qá’im comes from the expression Qa ’im-i-Al-i-Muh ammad (He Who shall
arise from the Family of Muh ammad).  The Qa ’im has been a promised and expected
Divine Messenger in Islam for over 1,000 years.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 289.

Introduction

I am, I am, the promised One!  I am the One whose name you have for a
thousand years invoked, at whose mention you have risen, whose advent you
have longed to witness, and the hour of whose Revelation you have prayed
God to hasten.  Verily I say, it is incumbent upon the peoples of both the East
and the West to obey My word and to pledge allegiance to My person.1
In the same way that the Muslims were anticipating the appearance of the
“Lord of the Age”, a prophetic personage was likewise awaited in the Judeo-
Christian world.  While the Jewish people were awaiting for Elijah (Malachi 4:5)
to precede the Messiah, the Christian expectation was the return of John the
Baptist to herald the second advent of the Christ (Matthew 16:13–16).2
The year 1844 was seen as a momentous time in nineteenth century
Christianity.  For the “adventist” churches, particularly for the Millerites,, 1844
marked the “cleansing of the sanctuary” related to the “abomination of
desolation” prophesied by Daniel at the end of 2,300 days (years) (Daniel 8:13–14;
Matthew 24:30).3  Furthermore, in 1844 Jews were allowed to return to their
homeland, thus marking the fulfillment of the time of the gentiles (Luke 21:24–
27).4  The year 1844 was also an important historical milestone in technological
terms with the invention of the telegraph, soon to be followed by the sewing
machine, glass-plate photography, and the typewriter amongst other
innovations.
A new religion—the Bábí Faith
The second insurmountable challenge to the Muslim clergy was that the Ba b
inaugurated a new independent religion and broke away from Islam.  He
abrogated several ordinances from the Qur’a n and its associated traditions as
well as ordinances from the Bible.  The Ba b replaced them with new ordinances
pertaining to marriage, divorce, prayer, tithes, fasting, inheritance, and many
other personal observances.
Suddenly, a new spiritual revolution began to erupt that challenged
fundamental religious beliefs.  For example, spiritual and general physical
cleanliness were commended above mere liturgical or ritual purity with an
emphasis on the supreme purification made possible by the Word of God.5  On

Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 315.  The Promised One of Islam was expected
1,000 years after the death of the last Ima m of Shí ‘í  Islam, a prophecy to be fulfilled in
CE 1844 (AH 1260).  See Stephen Lambden, “From a Primal Point to an Archetypical
Book”, p. 154.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 58.
The Millerites were the followers of the teachings of William Miller, who in 1831
publicly declared his belief that the Second Advent of Jesus Christ would occur about
the year 1843–1844.  See Sears, Thief in the Night, pp. 75, 6, & 27.
‘Abdu’l-Baha , Some Answered Questions, pp. 40–41.
Other purifiers were fire, wind and earth (Persian Baya n 5:14.)

Dispensation of the Ba b
the one hand, the teachings of the Ba b strongly emphasized clean water1 to attain
not only physical but also spiritual purity.  On the other hand, according to the
Ba b, whoever entered His religion automatically became pure, and this included
his or her belongings.2
Christian nations were approved in terms of hygiene—in defiance of the
country’s religious law that framed Westerners as impure.  Christians were also
praised for their industries, commerce, arts and postal services, and people were
encouraged to approach them, especially if they were “merchants and engage in
useful professions”.3
The Persian Baya n mentions Jesus over 40 times and he is characterized by
his meekness, suffering and patience.  In various sections the Persian Baya n4
reprimands Christians for not having recognized Muh ammad from Jesus’
prophecies about the coming of Ah mad (that is, the “Most Praised”, one of
Muh ammad’s names) and blames the Christian clergy for misleading the faithful.
Muh ammad revealed in Qur’a n 61:6 that Jesus had referred to “a Messenger to
come after me, whose name shall be Ah mad”.  Several authors5 agree that this
prophecy relates to Christ’s statements about the coming of the Paraclete (John
14:16, 14:25; 15:26, 16:7; 1 John 2:1), a Greek term which has been translated as the
Comforter, Advocate or Helper.  Rudolf Bultmann (1884–1976), the theologian of
the demythologization of Christianity, affirmed that Jesus was referring to a third
person, another Son of Man, Who would be Himself.6  ‘Abdu’l-Baha  wrote:  “His
Holiness Moses made a covenant concerning the Promised One, i.e. His Holiness
Christ, and announced the good news of His Manifestation to the world.  His Holiness
Christ made a covenant concerning the Paraclete and gave the tidings of His
coming.  His Holiness the Prophet Muḥammad made a covenant concerning His
Holiness the Báb ….”7  Shoghi Effendi also indicates that the Paraclete reference
alludes to Baha ’u’lla h.8  Baha ’u’lla h, in commenting about Jesus’ statement “I go
away and come again unto you”,9 specifically refers this as a prophecy about
Muh ammad while simultaneously inferring the concept of the oneness of all
Manifestations of God.
Muh ammad was also announced in several passages of the Old Testament,
including references to the Saint of Mount Paran (Habbakuk 3:3) and the

The Ba b, Persian Baya n 6:2.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 5:14; Arabic Baya n 5:7
Amanat, “The Persian Bayan and the Shaping of the Babi Renewal”, p. 345.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 4:15, 6:13 & 8:9.
See ‘Abdullah Yu suf ‘Alí .  The Meaning of the Holy Qur’án; Luis Marques, Cartas a un
Buen Católico; Julio Corte s, El Corán; & George Townshend, Christ and Bahá'u'lláh.
Rudolf Bultmann, The Gospel of John.
‘Abdu’l-Baha  in Bahá’í World Faith, p. 358.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 95.
Baha ’u’lla h, Kitáb-i-Íqán, pp. 20–21.

Introduction

statement of Moses in Deuteronomy (18:15–18) that God “will raise up for you a
prophet like me from among you, from your brothers”.1
The Ba b declared the religious and political establishment obsolete,
oppressive and outworn.  According to Ruiz-Dome nec and Arjomandi, the Ba b
“… launched a mass movement that dared to denounce and oppose one of
the main drivers of the old way of exercising sovereignty: clericalism,
traditionalism and ideological religion.”2
The Ba b unapologetically replaced almost every brick of the ‘old edifice’ and
built a new one in its stead.  The ‘ulama ’ and secular powers found the
revolutionary theology of the Ba b disturbing and heretical.  They experienced it
as a challenge to their temporal authority and they were determined to destroy
it.  However, despite severe persecutions and ordeals, the divinely ordained
teachings of the Ba b survived.  While the old order was in a disintegration or
auto-destruction mode, a process of integration was occurring simultaneously.
During His short Ministry the Ba b provided ordinances for new systems and
structures, which would soon be replaced by another Messenger Who would
follow Him.
The Ba b appeared in a patriarchal and misogynistic society where women
were kept hidden from public view.  Fresh and revolutionary provisions in the
Persian Baya n3 prescribing that Ba bí  “men and women, are allowed to look [at
each other], speak and sit together”4 were enough for women like T a hirih,5 to
publicly discard the Islamic face veil (niqáb), thereby undermining deep-seated
gender-related beliefs and generating a great religious outcry.6  The Ba b never
disapproved her actions.7 Veiling of women’s faces was never a teaching of the
Qur’a n but was a cultural tradition.  It is not presently mandated in any Muslim
country although it has been enforced by certain sectarian communities such as
the T a liba n and ISIS.  All forms of veiling were formally and controversially
abolished in Iran in 1936 by Reza Shah (Rid a  Sha h); but the enforced dress code
of the h ija b was re-established by the Islamic Iranian Republic in 1979.
Equally in contravention of conventional Islamic beliefs, the Ba b commanded,
according to Armin Eschraghi, that “women should not be forced to hide their
hair when saying their obligatory prayer.”8  T a hirih, a poet, theologian and a
philosopher, is also famous for advocating for women rights, and renowned as

Brothers, in the Biblical context, refers to the Arabs who were the descendants of
Ismael.
Ruiz-Dome nec & Arjomandi, The Báb o la Puerta a un Mundo Mejor, p. 41.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 8:9; & Persian Baya n 8:10.
The Ba b in Armin Eschraghi, “Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy”, p. 232.
Janet Ruhe-Schoen, Rejoice in My Gladness.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 293.
7  Moojan Momen, “The Social Basis of the Babi Upheavals in Iran”, p. 303.
Armin Eschraghi, “Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy”, p. 244.

Dispensation of the Ba b
the most distinguished woman in the Faith of the Ba b.1  For her proselytism and
zeal, she was executed in August 1852.  Her last words were “You can kill me as
soon as you like, but you will never stop the emancipation of women.”2
It is noteworthy that on 6 November 1850, El Barcelonés, a Spanish newspaper,
while reporting the execution of the Ba b to a European audience, highlighted the
gender-egalitarian dimension of His teachings:
Despatches from Tehran report that the head of the Bábí religion, together
with twelve of his followers, has been executed by firing squad in Tabríz.
One of the religion’s principal dogmas is the proclamation of women’s
fundamental rights, and the number of converts it is daily acquiring from
among the ranks of the fairer sex is rather considerable ….3
The Ba b discarded the Islamic (lunar) calendar that determined the timing of
important rituals like fasting, fundamental religious commemorations, and the
pilgrimage to Mecca.  By inaugurating a new calendar, all time-related religious
practices of the past were abrogated.  The calendar of the Ba b is based on solar
cycles and is entirely new in its names and structure.  This new calendar is called
Badí‘, meaning “wondrously new”.
As part of His overhaul of the archaic religious establishment, for His new
religious dispensation, the Ba b withdrew from the clergy their ministerial
prerogative to formally interpret sacred texts and advance religious
jurisprudence.  Congregational prayers were also barred, thus, effectively
bringing the institution of the priesthood to an end.  The Ba b also challenged the
established order by changing units of weight and measurements, taxes and
other transactional standards.4  Furthermore, He exhorted rich people to share
their wealth with the poor and discouraged mendicancy.5
In creating a new liturgical, ritual and ceremonial system for His Faith, the Ba b
removed the religious concept of spiritual impurity or uncleanliness associated
with objects and animals in the Old and New Testaments and the Qur’a n.  All
things from the past were plunged into a sea of purity and made clean again.6  “He
created all things anew …”7 the Ba b wrote.
For the Ba b, the act of abrogation constituted more than annulling and
replacing the regulations of Judaism, Christianity or Islam.  He advanced the
theology of religious abrogation by introducing the concept of perfecting and
consummating the previous religious dispensation.  His proposition was in line

Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 347.
Hatcher & Hemmat, The Poetry of Ṭáhirih, p. 14.
Amí n Egea, “Chronicles of a Birth”, p. 61.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 5:19.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 8:17.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 10:5.
The Ba b in Eschraghi, “Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy”, p. 226.

Introduction

with the words of Jesus, “Do not think that I have come to abolish the Law of the
Prophets; I have not come to abolish them but to fulfill them” (Matthew 5:17–18).
In other words, the supreme spiritual law of Moses (e.g., the Ten
Commandments) was never cancelled by Jesus, except for Pentateuchal
ordinances and regulations, such as the offering of lambs as religious sacrifice
(Ephesians 2:15).  Jesus redefined how Saturday was to be observed as the day of
rest, modified dietary injunctions and rituals, and made many more amendments
such as precluding acts of revenge, groundless divorce1, oaths and swearing.
These changes bewildered the Jewish priesthood.
Further, the Ba b introduced the concept of consummation of one religion into
the succeeding one, as a form of being naturally subsumed.  The Merriam-Webster
Dictionary defines “consummation” as the process “to become perfected”.2
Hence, God’s progressive revelation takes on a new meaning in the words of the
Ba b:  “Say, the testimony of God hath been fulfilled in the Bayán, and through its
revelation the grace of God hath attained its highest consummation for all
mankind.”3
Although the Ba b abrogated the laws of Isla m, He never criticised Muh ammad
or the Qur’a n.  The focus of His mission was the inauguration of a new
Dispensation—whose immediate cradle was Isla m itself—and on providing a
new interpretation of Isla m.  In the Baya n is written:  “The fruit of the religion of
Islám is faith in the Manifestation [of the Ba b] …”4 and “This Religion is indeed, in
the sight of God, the essence of the Faith of Muḥammad”.5  In one of His many
testimonies about the Holy Book of Isla m, the Ba b wrote:  “Verily, each letter of
the Qur’án is invested with as many manifest meanings as the number of the atoms
of all things that are embraced by the knowledge of God.”6  The Ba b alluded to
Muh ammad as the “Friend”,7 “Apostle of God”,8 the “Seal of the Prophets”,9
“Messenger”,10 “Prophet of God”,11 the “Repository of His good-pleasure”,12 among
many other exalted designations.

For Jesus, the only basis for divorce was adultery (Matthew 5:31-32).
Merriam-Webster
Dictionary
(online).

Available
from:

www.merriam-
webster.com/dictionary/consummating
The Ba b, Selections, p. 137.
Emily McBride Pe rigord, Translation of French Foot-Notes, p. 30.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 137.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 56.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 93.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 30.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 71.
10 The Ba b, Selections, p. 137.
11 The Ba b, Selections, p. 117.
12 The Ba b, Selections, p. 137.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Symbolism in previous prophecies
A third major set of changes made by the Ba b is the interpretation of
prophecies and teachings from previous Holy Books as being primarily symbolic
rather than literal, thus challenging the interpretations common at the time.  He
explained that resurrection refers not to physical bodies rising from physical
death but to the revival of spiritual qualities and capacities.  Heaven, He
explained meant acceptance of God and His Messengers, while hell represented
the rejection of Truth.  Further, the devil, according to the Ba b, should not be
understood as an evil independent entity but rather as the egotistical self of a
human being manifest as defiance and rebellion.1  The Quranic Bridge (Ṣiráṭ) to
Paradise was a metaphor for the Manifestation of God and His religion.2  In
general, for the Ba b, many conventional religious notions were relative rather
than absolute.
The return or second coming meant the revival of spiritual attributes and
qualities of the previous Messenger rather than a physical recurrence of a
particular Personality.3  In the new theology, purgatory was understood as the
period between the death of a Messenger and the appearance of the next One,4
the night between two consecutive religions.
Controversially, the new Faith claimed that Muh ammad was not the last
Messenger as was understood by the term Seal of the Prophets, but rather one
more link in the chain of divine progressive revelation to humanity that will
continue till “the end that hath no end.”5  By Seal, the Ba b explained, was meant
the sealing of the cycle of prophecy, which was followed by the opening of the
cycle of fulfillment.6  Many of these spiritual allegories were further elaborated
by Baha ’u’lla h in the Kita b-i-I qa n (Book of Certitude) written in 1861–1862.7
The Ba b taught of the existence of an eternal spiritual world, a celestial
kingdom, a cosmogonic interworld8 that is linked in causation to the terrestrial
plane.  The whole creation, He stated, was a reflection of this heavenly domain,
this realm of divine mysteries and heavenly figures, with spiritual influence on
earthly destinies, referred to in the Baha ’í  Faith as the “Concourse on High”.  In
regard to that interaction between those material and immaterial planes,
Baha ’u’lla h wrote that “… whatever is on the heavens or on the earth has its
counterpart in that world.”9

The Ba b, Persian Baya n 2:7; 8:4.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 2:12.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 1:1; 2:2; 8:9.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 2:8.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 116.
Baha ’u’lla h, Gleanings, p. 60.
The Kitáb-i-Íqán (Book of Certitude).
Stephen Lambden, Some Aspects of Isrá‘íliyyát, p. 167.  Available from
www.academia.edu/download/64024691/lambden02.pdf
Moojan Momen, “Relativism”, p. 192.

Introduction

A call to progress
A call was made to the Qajar rulers to learn from the West in order to develop
the country.  This was an anathema to a corrupt and prejudiced religious
establishment perpetuating obscurantism and spreading spiritual lethargy.  “The
Ba b’s religious philosophy or philosophy of history,” wrote Heshmat Moayyad,
“was not retrospectively oriented or retrogressive; it was, rather, future-oriented
and progressive.”1
The revolutionary teachings of the Ba b encountered fiery opposition from
both the religious establishment and the government.  In a country with no
separation between state and religion, political and religious leaders joined
forces to unleash unprecedented terror and violence.  The accusation of heresy
made by the clergy was upheld by the civil authorities throughout Iran from the
Sha h (Muh ammad Sha h Qa ja r) to the provincial and local governors.
A mostly ignorant population fell prey to the rhetoric of prejudice and hate,
and followed their religious masters in harassing the new believers in public.  In
turn, the believers of the new movement faced and accepted death rather than
denying the faith they had happily embraced, as did the first Christian martyrs in
ancient Rome.  The Ba b Himself was caught in this vortex of bloodshed, and was
eventually executed by a firing squad in the barracks square in Tabrí z in July 1850.
Ironically, the plaza was known at the time as the Square of the Ṣáḥibu’z-Zamán
[“the Lord of the Age”], a title of the Ba b Himself.2  Meanwhile, the Ba b valiantly
faced all assaults on His person for six consecutive years—a period of time that
moved with increasing intensity to its climax.  “He was afraid of no one;”
Baha ’u’lla h wrote, “He was regardless of consequences”3 and ‘Abdu’l-Baha
remarked, “The Báb did not run away.”4  French Historian A. L. M. Nicolas wrote:
Christians believe that if Jesus Christ had wished to come down from the
cross he could have done so easily; he died of his own free will because it
was written that he should and in order that the prophecies might be
fulfilled.  The same is true of the Báb, so the Bábís say, who, in this way,
gave a clear sanction to his teachings.  He likewise died voluntarily because
his death was to be the salvation of humanity.5
The martyrdom of the Ba b was preceded and followed by waves of organized
persecutions engulfing thousands of Ba bí s to whose lives He testifies and accords
honour:
How numerous the souls raised to life who were exposed to dire humiliation
in Thy Path for exalting Thy Word and for glorifying Thy divine Unity!  How
profuse the blood that hath been shed for the sake of Thy Faith to vindicate

Heshmat Moayyad, “The historical relationship”, pp. 71.
Peter Berger, From Sect to Church.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 230.
‘Abdu’l-Baha , ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London, p. 118.
Pe rigord, Translation of French Foot-Notes, p. 60. (Dawn-Breakers, p. 515).  Tr. of A. L.
M. Nicolas, Siyyèd Ali-Mohammed, dit le Bâb, p. 376.

Dispensation of the Ba b
the authenticity of Thy divine Mission and to celebrate Thy praise!  How vast
the possessions that were wrongfully seized in the Path of Thy love in order
to affirm the loftiness of Thy sanctity and to extol Thy glorious Name!  How
many the feet that have trodden upon the dust in order to magnify Thy holy
Word and to extol Thy glory!  How innumerable the voices that were raised
in lamentation, the hearts that were struck with terror, the grievous woes
that none other than Thee can reckon, and the adversities and afflictions that
remain inscrutable to anyone except Thyself; all this to establish, O my God,
the loftiness of Thy sanctity and to demonstrate the transcendent character
of Thy glory.1
Claims of the Báb
In addition to the disruptive effect of the Ba b’s religious innovations, His
claims about Himself further enflamed public discourse and enquiry concerning
His divinity and aspirations for mankind.  In superb and eloquent terms, the Ba b
revealed His pre-existent, exalted station in answer to the summons of Divine
Providence.  The magnificence of those statements remind us of Jesus’ lofty self-
references claiming to be the Son of God (John 3:16), “the way and the truth and
the life” (John 14:6), and that “All that belongs to the Father is mine”, and “…
before Abraham was, I am.” (John 8:58)
The superlative titles adopted by the Ba b such as the “Most Mighty
Remembrance”,2 the “Great Announcement”,3 the “Supreme Testimony of God”,4 the
“First while also being the Last”, the “Hidden and the Manifest”5 amongst others,
inspired His followers while incurring the ire of the conservative religious
establishment.  There were similarly angry reactions to the many other titles that
the Ba b used, such as:  the “Gate of the Remnant of God”,6 the “Báb [Gate] of Truth”,
the “Inscribed Mystery”, the “Exalted Mystery of God”,7 the “Essence of all good”,8
the “resplendent Light of God”,9 the “glorious Remnant of the Light of God”,10 the
“Lamp which the Finger of God hath lit within its niche and caused to shine with
deathless splendor”,11 and the “true mystic Fane of God”.12  In the words of the Ba b,

The Ba b, Selections, pp. 188–189.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 95.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 72.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 12.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 100.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 55.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 134.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 15.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 61.
10 The Ba b, Selections, p. 71.
11 The Ba b, Selections, p. 74.
12 The Ba b, Selections, p. 15.

Introduction

“Whoso recognizeth Me, assurance and all good are in store for him, and whoso
faileth to recognize Me, infernal fire and all evil await him ….”1
“The angels and the spirits, arrayed rank upon rank,” the Ba b declared,
“descend, by the leave of God, upon this Gate and circle around this Focal Point in a
far-stretching line”; and that He is a “pillar of glorification.”2  In more allegorical
terms, the Ba b named Himself the “mystic Bird warbling in the loftiest heights of
heaven”,3 the “Youth of the East and the West”,4 the “Sacred Tree”,5 the “Maid of
Heaven begotten by the Spirit of Bahá”, and as one “Whom the Almighty hath
graciously chosen for His Own Self.”6  In another passage, the Ba b reminded us of
the divine authority conferred upon Him in this new era:
Whosoever hath recognized Me, hath known all that is true and right, and
hath attained all that is good and seemly; and whosoever hath failed to
recognize Me, hath turned away from all that is true and right and hath
succumbed to everything evil and unseemly.7
Furthermore, the following two quotes give us all a further glimpse of the
supranatural nature He claimed to embody:
I am the Primal Point from which have been generated all created things.8
The substance wherewith God hath created Me is not the clay out of which
others have been formed.  He hath conferred upon Me that which the
worldly-wise can never comprehend, nor the faithful discover ….9
The Bábí-Bahá’í Faith
The influence of the Faith of the Ba b continues to grow, not only by virtue of
its divine power, but also because of its doctrinal transmigration into the
Revelation of Baha ’u’lla h.  Baha ’u’lla h, a Persian nobleman, arose to champion the
Cause of the Ba b around September 1844,10 and eventually became the leader of
the Ba bí  community while the Ba b was imprisoned in Ma h-Ku  and Chihrí q,
rallying the believers together in events such as the Conference of Badasht (June-
July 1848) where the new laws of the Ba b were proclaimed.
As Dr Moshe Sharon, Professor Emeritus of Islamic and Middle Eastern
Studies at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem states, the Ba b:

The Ba b, Selections, p. 12.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 50.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 67.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 158.
The Ba b, Selections, p, 56.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 50.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 11.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 12.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 11.
10 Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 105–7.

Dispensation of the Ba b
… created a coherent system inaugurating a new Prophetic cycle,
abrogating the Islamic dispensation, and pointing to a very clear future
continuation
of
His
Dispensation,
identifying
the
subsequent
Manifestation [Bahá’u’lláh] and indicating its time.1
Not only do both theophanies share the same history but also the same
theological foundation.  The twin and epic births of those two dispensations in
the middle of the nineteenth century together formed a Global Faith.2  In Shoghi
Effendi’s words, the “Dispensation [of the Ba b] in a sense will last as long as
Baha ’u’lla h’s lasts.”3  However, in a chronological sense, the Dispensation of the
Ba b lasted 19 years, and ended with the public Declaration of Baha ’u’lla h in CE
1863.
“There are no fundamental differences between the doctrinal systems of the
Bab and Baha-u’llah [sic]” wrote the eminent Austrian-born American sociologist
Peter Berger.  “The Baha ’í  doctrine of God and revelation is identical with that of
the Baya n.”4
Shoghi Effendi referred to the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h as the “twin Luminaries of
the Baha ’í  Revelation”.5  And Baha ’u’lla h alludes to Himself and the Ba b as these
two divine stars in the following terms:
This Point [the Ba b] is the focal centre of the circle of Names and marketh
the culmination of the manifestations of Letters in the world of creation.
Through it have appeared indications of the impenetrable Mystery, the
adorned Symbol, He Who standeth revealed in the Most Great Name—a
Name which is recorded in the luminous Tablet and is inscribed in the holy,
the blessed, the snow-white Scroll. … Then the eternal Light of God shed its
radiance, flared up in the midmost heart of the firmament of testimony and
produced two Luminaries [The Ba b and Bahá’u’lláh].6
The unique circumstance where two Messengers of God were physically
present at the same time raises the question regarding the “status” of the
Supreme Manifestation prior to His declaration during the lifetime of the Ba b.
Although Baha ’u’lla h could be called a “follower” and a “disciple” of the Ba b
during that time, a better mind-set is promoted if Baha ’u’lla h is acknowledged as
a “supporter” and a “promoter” of the Ba bí  Faith.7
Survey of the teachings of the Báb
The book, written mostly for a Western audience, reviews the teachings,
exhortations and laws enunciated by the Ba b, and presents His legacy to

Moshe Sharon, Notes and Observations, p. 19.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 4.
Shoghi Effendi, Dawn of a New Day, p. 94.  Present author’s emphasis.
Peter Berger, From Sect to Church, p. 49.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 237.
Baha ’u’lla h, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 101–102.
See Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 66–7.

Introduction

humanity as an independent Manifestation of God.  Further, the fundamentals of
the Revelation of the Ba b are examined through His own writings as well as
through the elucidations of Baha ’u’lla h, ‘Abdu’l-Baha  and Shoghi Effendi.  It aims
to offer a phenomenological exploration of the revelation of the Ba b and His
principles in a systematic, didactical and comprehensive way.
A balance has been attempted to convey not only the “Oriental” context but
also the Western perspective, irrespective of its background, whether secular or
faith-based.  Hence, connections have been made to New and Old Testament
related themes to acknowledge the Judeo-Christian dimension embedded in the
revelation of the Ba b.
Little of the literature of the Ba b has been translated into English.  It is
acknowledged that the vastness of the Ba bí  corpus of scriptures as well as the
limited availability of authorized translations make a truly comprehensive
review of His Writings impossible at this time.
The present narrative draws abundantly upon the Words of the Ba b,
encouraging the reader to delve directly into His Writings.  The brevity of the
commentary is intentional and has the goal of fostering focus on the Words of the
Ba b.  When analysis was deemed necessary, the primary sources drawn on to
provide this analysis were the Writings of Baha ’u’lla h, ‘Abdu’l-Baha , Shoghi
Effendi and the Universal House of Justice.
While sifting through the available texts, about three hundred themes were
identified within the Writings of the Ba b, and grouped together into four broad
areas.  The first area as presented in the present volume pertains to the divine
philosophy of the Ba b as a fresh theological framework about the nature of God
and His creation, and in the context of God’s progressive revelation throughout
history.  It also discusses the nature of the Revelation of the Ba b, important events
of His life and on the vastness of His written works, particularly, on the
Qayyu mu’l-Asma  and the Persian Baya n.  In addition, there is an elaboration on
the many purposes of the religion of the Ba b including its greatness, the
universality of His mandate and the aggressive opposition that the new teachings
attracted in nineteenth century Persia.
The second part pertains to examples from the Ba b’s Writings on ethical and
mystical concepts, including individual and community exhortations and
prohibitions, both social and individual.  Moral precepts, spiritual principles and
various ordinances are presented and substantiated with numerous passages.
There is also a survey of the Writings of the Ba b regarding social development
and the new Badí ‘ calendar.  This second area addresses the importance of
nurturing a devotional life as well as the context around popular Ba bí  prayers
and invocations that are still in use in the Baha ’í  community.  It closes with the
tender addresses of the Ba b regarding members of His immediate family.
The third part pertains to the continuity between the teachings of the Ba b and
the teachings of Baha ’u’lla h from a doctrinal and legislative perspective, with
emphasis on the Figure of Him Whom God shall make Manifest.  It explores in
detail the conditions in which He Whom God shall make manifest (Baha ’u’lla h)

Dispensation of the Ba b
would appear after the death of the Ba b.  This is followed by an exposition about
Ba bí  and Baha ’í  laws showing their close association and the continuity from one
to the other.  Chapter 18 describes how the emergence in the second half of the
nineteenth century of the Faith of Baha ’u’lla h fulfilled the prophecies and
purpose of the dispensation of the Ba b, and carried its spiritual legacy into the
future.
The fourth part of this book compiles the main laws of previous religions in
the context of the teachings of the Ba b.  There is a detailed analysis of past
religious laws confirmed, modified or abrogated by the Ba b and also of Ba bí  laws
abrogated or amended by Baha ’u’lla h.
The Dispensation of the Báb draws on the Writings of the Ba b from a variety of
sources, but mainly from:  Selections from the Writings of the Báb, Gate of the
Heart, Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne, Translation of French Foot-
Notes of the Dawn-Breakers and quotations from Baha ’u’lla h, ‘Abdu’l-Baha ,
Shoghi Effendi and the Universal House of Justice.  Other reference books
accessed and consulted by the author about the Writings of the Ba b include A. L.
M. Nicolas’ French translations of the Persian Baya n,1 the Arabic Baya n2 and the
Dala ’il-i-Sab‘ih (“The Seven Proofs”).3  Many other significant works are listed in
the Bibliography for the reader’s perusal and further exploration.

With regards to the multitude of meanings that can be drawn from the
Writings of the Ba b, Baha ’u’lla h has emphasized that “No understanding can grasp
the nature of His [the Ba b’s] Revelation, nor can any knowledge comprehend the
full measure of His Faith.”4  Yet, the Ba b has stated that every human soul can
recognize that His revelation has “proceeded from God” by virtue of “spontaneous
love for the true Word of God”, and can respond “in a spirit of utter humility and
lowliness—a spirit which is one of the mightiest signs of true love and
understanding”.5  This book therefore is an invitation to every individual to
undertake a personal journey of spiritual exploration into the unfathomable
insights of the revelation of the Primal Point.
For those who have had the inestimable privilege of identifying themselves
with the Baha ’í  Faith, my most firm and sincere hope in writing these pages has
also been to share my excitement in learning about the Ba b and His universal
teachings.


A. L. M. Nicolas, Le Béyan Persan.
A. L. M. Nicolas, Le Beyan Arabe.
A. L. M. Nicolas, Le Livre des Sept Preuves de la Mission du Bab.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 274.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 31 & 120.

Part I
Divine Revelation



God and His Creation
The Ba b reformulated classical theologies and composed an elaborated
system of new religious beliefs.  The teachings of the Ba b cast a new light on
former dogmas by refining them further into an original conceptual framework.
He reinterpreted and augmented theological concepts found in the Old and New
Testaments, and the Qur’a n while adding a new “divine philosophy” pertaining to
the conception of God, His nature and essence, and His creation.
The Faith of the Ba b subsumed into the Baha ’í  Faith, a new theophany that
recognized the divinity, majesty, power and mystical beauty of its predecessor.
The divine philosophy of the Ba b was further developed when Baha ’u’lla h
elaborated on the eternal truths enunciated by His Herald.  Baha ’u’lla h effected
this in the Kita b-i-’I qa n1 as well as in other Tablets.  The Ba b stated that “… today
the Bayán is in the stage of seed; at the beginning of the manifestation of Him Whom
God shall make Manifest its ultimate perfection will become apparent.”2  Referring
to this phenomenon, Douglas Martin wrote that “… the Ba b’s writings also contain
the seeds of new perspectives and concepts which were to animate the
worldwide Baha ’í  enterprise.”3
The following are the main themes of this chapter:
•
The Essence of God
•
The Primal Will
•
The Word of God
•
The Creation
•
The seven stages of Creation
Essence of God
According to the Ba b, God’s essence is an eternal entity as God’s “beginning
hath had no beginning other than His Own firstness and His end knoweth no end
save His Own lastness.”4  Further, according to the Ba b, God is He “Who from time
immemorial hath abided and will forever continue to abide within His transcendent
eternity, exalted above the reach and ken of all created beings.”5
The Ba b adds that “any praise made by His creation, and any description
comprehended by His servants, is the outcome of their limited creation and the

Written in Persian and Arabic in Baghda d in 1861/1862.  Translated by Shoghi Effendi
as The Kitáb-i-Íqán:  The Book of Certitude in 1931.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 107–108.
Robert Weinberg, The Primal Point, p. 105.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 112.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 111.

1.  God and His Creation

attributes that their minds may invent within the created realm …”1 and “the soul,
while bound by the ephemeral and transitory things of this world, is confined, in its
understanding, to limited phenomena only”.2  “Such conclusive truth hath been
revealed through the gaze of the heart, and not that of intellect.”
God’s independence is proclaimed in absolute terms:  “God is sanctified from
His servants and no direct relationship ever existeth between Him and any created
thing, while ye have all arisen at His bidding.”3  He is “invested with the independent
sovereignty of His exalted Being”4 and “sanctified from every comparison.”5
An essential message in the Writings of the Ba b is that the essence of God is
beyond human comprehension even of the most prominent human intellects:
Immeasurably exalted is God above the claim of the philosophers that the
cause of the originated beings is the Pre-existence of the Essence, seeking
thereby to connect God with the contingent realm, and desiring to
demonstrate the presence of the eternal intelligible forms, by virtue of the
subtlety of the Indivisible, within His Essence ….6
From the above passage, it is clear that the Ba b upholds the strictest
monotheism and does not accept plurality within the divine essence whether in
the form of polytheism or the idea of a triune god.  In His descriptions of God the
Ba b affirms that “He [God] hath not begotten anything”7 and “Naught is mentioned
besides Him, and no plurality whatsoever can be uttered in the absolute indivisible
Unity of His Essence.”8  The Ba b unequivocally proclaims that God
… is the Beginning and the End, the Manifest and the Hidden, the Maker and
the Sustainer, the Omnipotent and the All-Knowing, the One Who heareth
and perceiveth all things, He Who is invincible in His power and standeth
supreme in His Own identity, He Who quickeneth and causeth to die, the All-
Powerful, the Inaccessible, the Most Exalted, the Most High.9
That the essence of God cannot be known through human intellect, is
explained by the Ba b with an example from the material world:  “… just as the root
principles of religion and its faithful people have progressed beyond the physical
realm, the divine signs have also infinitely advanced beyond the limited physical
realm.”10  In a prayer, the Ba b revealed:

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 196.  Note:  Many quotes from the Ba b by
Nader Saiedi are provisional translations.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 177.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 131.
The Ba b, Selections, 125.
The Ba b, Selections, 125.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 190.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 96.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 190.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 112.
10 The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 228.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Thy majesty is so transcendent that no human imagination can reach it and
Thy consummate power is so sublime that the birds of men’s hearts and
minds can never attain its heights.1
He adds, “… inasmuch as there can never be any descent for the Essence of God,
nor can any mention ever be uttered, other than of Him, at His level.”2  Further, He
states
[It is impossible] to fabricate any name or attribute for the Essence of God,
and unto none is given any proof for, or path to, His recognition.  The proof
of His Essence hath always been, and will ever be, His Essence, and it is
impossible for the contingent to be considered His proof.3
“No creature can ever comprehend Thee as beseemeth the reality of Thy holy
Being,” says the Ba b, “and no servant can ever worship Thee as is worthy of Thine
unknowable Essence.”4  The Ba b affirms that, in the same way that God’s Essence
is utterly independent, so God’s knowledge is also absolute:
Inasmuch as it is evident that His life is His Essence, since His life doth not
rely on the existence of any living thing besides Him, then the same is true
with regard to His knowledge.  He, glorified be He, hath been omniscient from
and throughout His immemorial eternity, without the existence of any object
of knowledge.5
The Primal Will
The Ba b introduces the concept of Primal Creation or the Primal Will as the
cause that all entities, spiritual and material, come into being:
Verily, the Source of the originated is the Primal Creation, which God hath
created for Itself, by Itself; no other mention can ever be made besides It.6
In a way, the Primal Will can be considered as an evolutionary
conceptualization of the Holy Spirit:  “In the beginning God created the heaven
and the earth.  And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon
the face of the deep.  And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.”
(Genesis 1:1–2)  The Essence of God Himself, which exists on a higher plane, the
Ba b states, is not the cause of the creation.  The Ba b affirmed in this regard:
For that Essential Pre-existence which is not the cause of any thing, and
beside Whom nothing is present, and at Whose rank none can ever be

The Ba b, Selections, p. 194.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, pp. 195.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, pp. 231.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 200–201.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 195.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 196.

1.  God and His Creation

mentioned, is solely the Ancient Pre-existence of the Eternal Essence, which
hath ever existed by virtue of His own Existence.1
Assuming that the creation comes directly from God is incorrect because “He
is verily independent of the whole of creation.”2  “Thy might is potent over all things
and all created things exist by Thy Will”3 the Ba b further affirms in a prayer.
The Primal Will, or simply the Will, derives from God’s essence:  “He hath
created all beings by His Will,” the Ba b wrote, “and created the Will by Itself.  Verily
that Will is the First Point mentioned at the level of the contingent world.”4  And
further:  “He hath fashioned the Will from nothingness, through Itself, and ordained
It to be the Cause of all that is other than It, with no descent of anything from His
Essence unto the Will”5 since “Everything thou beholdest hath been called into
being through the operation of His Will.”6
The Ba b therefore rejects “the views of those who have considered the Essence
to be the Cause of all causes … For verily, that Cause is His Handiwork, and that
Handiwork is not preceded by any cause.”7  The Primal Will is the agent originating
creation, both spiritual and material:
The Primal Will, once it is manifested in this world at the behest of God,
speaketh of all things, and by virtue of its speaking thereof, all things are
brought into existence.8
Therefore, the Essence of God, the Primal Will and the creation are separate
entities:
Then behold naught in the heavens, the earth, and that which lieth between
them, save as the effects thereof.  They all, verily, are fashioned by the Will
and have proceeded from It, while It is verily created by Itself and abideth
beneath Its Own Essence.  It hath proceeded from God, Its Lord, and unto God,
Its Fashioner, It shall return ….9
“Everything thou beholdest,” says the Ba b, “hath been called into being through
the operation of His Will.”10  In expanding on the transcendence of the Primal Will
above the universe, the Ba b elaborates:
[T]hou must bear witness that the Will is in one sense all things and, in
another, devoid of them all; in one respect It is before all things and, in

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 190.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 49.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 198.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 196.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 192.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 125.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 192.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 195.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 174.
10 The Ba b, Selections, p. 125.

Dispensation of the Ba b
another, devoid of them all; in one gaze It is above all things and, in another,
beneath them all.  For, verily, all those different directions have been created
by the Will and generated through the modes of Its revelation.  Therefore, It
is more manifest to things than even their own reality, inasmuch as the first
is a creature, created by It, the last is a creature created by It, the seen is a
creature fashioned by It, and the hidden is a creature fashioned by It.1
The Word of God
The Word of God is considered also as an expression of the Primal Will.
According to the Ba b, “The verses of God are like unto a living, invigorating water,
which is sent down out of the heaven of His Primal Will upon the earth of your
nearness to God”2 which can be used to purify our spiritual soil.  Further, the Ba b
attests in a prayer:  “In truth I have created Thee through Thyself, then at My Own
behest I have fashioned all things through the creative power of Thy Word.”3
The Ba b explains that the Word of God has a creative effect on the universe:
No power besides God can achieve this, inasmuch as that which is uttered by
God out of the Tree of Truth would instantly create, by itself, the inmost
reality of the said thing … for the Word of God is the utter Truth, and
whatever is mentioned by it acquireth reality at once, that it may provide
further evidence of this truth, which is His utter Truth ….  Unless one fixeth
his gaze upon the inmost reality of all things … he will not arrive at the true
realization of ‘Verily, the Word of God is the truth,’ since it is through the very
utterance of the Word that the entity acquireth truth in its inmost reality.4
The Ba b likens the divine verses to “living waters”5 and to “seeds of godly
attributes”6 that have been sown in the soil of people’s hearts.  Justice is
mentioned as another example of the creative power of the Word of God:
For instance, the commonly used word ‘justice’ (‘adl):  when uttered by God,
glorified be His mention, this word becometh the source of justice as destined
within the realm of the Will.  Thus when a word issueth forth from the
Concourse on High, it assumeth its ultimate and supreme meaning (the Will).
…  Were all to gather together to produce even a semblance of that ‘Justice,’
they would assuredly fail to do so… The same is true with regard to the word
‘Justice’ as spoken by the Apostle of God, for verily its spirit is derived from
His Spirit, while its literal pronunciation is associated with His body ….7

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 174.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 81.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 159.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 291.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 58.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 79.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 64.

1.  God and His Creation

In addition, the Word of God is also identified with the Prophet Himself.  In
the Qayyu mu’l-Asma ’ the Ba b calls Himself “the Supreme Word of God!”1 and in
the Epistle to Muh ammad Sha h, He declared Himself to be “one of the sustaining
pillars of the Primal Word of God.”2
Referring to Himself, the Ba b wrote:
This is a Word that hath verily glorified, exalted, magnified, sanctified, and
praised His Lord in the daytime and in the night season.  Gaze not upon this
Word except as thou beholdest the sun in the heaven, and perceive not him
who believeth in Him save as thou lookest at the mirror ….
This is the Utterance of the Power of God, that appeareth through the Most
Great Word, this Youth, Whom the faithful call in truth by the name ‘Alí ….
We have verily revealed this Book unto the Most Great Word and ordained
Him, in truth, to be the Midmost Point in the realm of justice.3
Creation
In the words of the Ba b, the creation of God “hath had no beginning and can
have no end, otherwise it would necessitate the cessation of His celestial grace.”4
Further, He states that the whole universe hath been fashioned with perfection:
Know thou first of the truth, that verily God, glorified be He, hath not created
anything save He hath made it with utmost perfection according to His
power.  Had it been otherwise, His artifact would not have been perfect and
thus would not have been worthy of attribution by God to Himself ….  Nay
rather, God hath created all beings as it behoveth His glory.5
The Ba b affirms that God creation came out from a state of non-existence:
Praise be unto Thee!  The way in which Thou hast called into being Thy
creation out of non-existence preventeth all created things from recognizing
Thee, and the manner in which Thou hast fashioned the creatures, with the
limitations imposed upon them, proclaimeth their utter nothingness before
the revelations of Thine attributes.6
God’s creation is a reflection of Him in all things, bearing testimony to His
attributes because He has “deposited within the realities of all created things the
emblem of His recognition.”7  He further explains that:
… God hath created in the truth-sign of any thing that is called a thing, the
signs of all beings, that it would not be difficult for anyone to recognize the

The Ba b, Selections, p. 55.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 11.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 266.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 125.
The Ba b in Saiedi, “Phenomenology of Occultation and Prayer”, p. 208.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 197.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 112.

Dispensation of the Ba b
manifestations of the tokens of His grace, and the effulgences of His modes of
justice, so that all beings may witness the revelation of His sovereignty in the
creation of all things, manifestly and truly, in such wise that none may see
anything but that he would behold Him before seeing that object.1
The independence of God is made clear in the following statement of the Ba b:
“The purpose of God in creating man is but for him to know Him.  Indeed God hath
knowledge of all things and is self-sufficient above the need of all mankind.”2  Along
with other elements of the universe, the purpose of man’s life is to reveal His
signs.  The Ba b writes:
Every created entity in itself reflecteth the Greater World… Verily God hath
fashioned all things in the form of His Divine Unity in such wise that when a
servant is purified from all protestation and doubt and instead reflecteth the
splendours of the divine revelation unto him and through him, in utmost
equity, he will be naught but the sign of the Divine Self, that “verily there is
none other God but Him, the Beloved, the Compassionate.”3
Further, God has made known Himself to human beings so “that they may
recognize their Creator and that, out of the grace of the Pre-existent, the contingent
beings may attain their supreme End.”4  Knowledge of God is gained in part
through knowledge of the aspects of human beings conceptualized as “soul”,
“self” or “heart”.5
The soul, as a spiritual creation reflecting God Himself, is described in the
following way:
It is the Sign of God shown by Him in the world … that it may be revealed
unto them that verily He is the Truth.  Behold with the eye of thy heart, for,
verily, the truth of thy being is the Divinity of thy Lord, revealed unto thee
and through thee.  Thou art He Himself, and He is thou thyself, except that
indeed thou art that thou art, and He is that He is ….  Verily, God, magnified
be He, ceaselessly sheddeth His effulgence, gazeth upon thee through thee,
and embraceth thee through thee.  This station is thine uttermost paradise
and ultimate Goal.6
Seven stages of creation
A staged concept of creation had originally been postulated in Greek
philosophy, and was further expounded in Neoplatonism.  The Neoplatonic
cosmology also found its way into Sufism, Jewish philosophy and Buddhism.
According to a hadith, Ja'far as -S a diq, the sixth Imam of Shi'i Islam, enumerated

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 60.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 62.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 58.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 251.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 80.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 251.

1.  God and His Creation

seven stages of Creation referred to as the Arc of Descent.  This ontological view
was explicated by Ibn ‘Arabí , to describe the cyclical process from unity to
material diversity, (the Arc of Descent), and its reverse—i.e., from diversity to the
spiritual perfection of unity in the Presence of God—referred to as the Arc of
Ascent.  This was further elaborated by Shaykh Ah mad-i-Ah sa ’í .1
According to the Ba b, all beings and things experience seven stages of
creation, from origin to end.  The stages are:  Will, Purpose or Determination,
Predestination or Destiny, Fate or Decree, Execution or Permission, Term or Fixed
time and the Book.  These stages of creation were reconceptualized by the Ba b in
various works in relation to other dimensions such as progressive revelation.
Baha ’u’lla h also used a seven-stage framework to explain the process of creation
to denote the formation of any entity either physical or spiritual.2
‘Abdu’l-Baha  explained the meaning of arcs of descent and ascent.
The Theosophists believe that man will return time and again on the arc of
ascent until he reaches the Supreme Centre, where matter becomes as a
spotless mirror, the light of the spirit shines forth in the plenitude of its
power, and essential perfection is attained.  However, those who have
thoroughly investigated the questions of divinity know of a certainty that the
material worlds terminate at the end of the arc of descent; that the station
of man lies at the end of the arc of descent and the beginning of the arc of
ascent, which is opposite the Supreme Centre; and that from the beginning
to the end of the arc of ascent the degrees of progress are of a spiritual
nature.  The arc of descent is called that of "bringing forth" and the arc of
ascent that of "creating anew".  The arc of descent ends in material realities
and the arc of ascent in spiritual realities.  The point of the compass in
describing a circle does not reverse its motion, for this would be contrary to
the natural movement and the divine order and would disrupt the regularity
of the circle.3

The arc of ascent would be better represented as the movement through the
mineral, vegetable and animal kingdoms, to the human realms and the spirit of

Nader Saiedi, Logos and Civilization, pp. 53–60.
See Moojan Momen, “The God of Baha ’u’lla h”; and Keven Brown, Selections from the
Bahá'í Writings and from Shaykh Ahmad.
‘Abdu’l-Baha , Some Answered Questions, p. 330.

Dispensation of the Ba b
faith realms.  Always moving towards divinity.  The arc of descent is the opposite
movement starting from the divine, going through consummation and realization
until extinction and assimilation is reached.  The arc of ascent can also be
construed as our personal and developmental journey to God while
simultaneously moving away from the defects of the material world.1
In the arc of descent, Will is the active force of creation.  This is the stage
where things (material or immaterial entities) are brought to mind like a sign of
existence before the appearance of means.  At that first stage of Will, only the
essence of things are considered.  This is the stage of free choice coming into
being before the creation of things themselves because a willingness that
something occurs needs to exist.  Purpose or Determination is the stage when
the agent receives an entitlement or resolution to exist and to become part of the
realm of “thingness”.  Things (or entities) exist because there was a rational
volition to exist.  The Ba b said that Will is like the father and Purpose is the
mother.2
Predestination is the third stage where Will and Purpose interact as active and
recipient entities so that contingency can be realized in the form of “length and
breadth, stability and change, fixed time, and the like.”3  At this stage all
potentialities and limitations are called into being.  It is the stage of creation
designing “the necessary and indispensable relationships which exist between the
realities of things,” according to ‘Abdu’l-Baha .
Predestination and fate represent the active and the passive components
respectively of a creative dyad.  Fate is the consummation of predestination.
“These relationships constitute predestination, and the manifestation thereof in the
plane of existence is fate.”  ‘Abdu’l-Baha  explained that “[w]ill is that active force
which controlleth these relationships and these incidents.”4  If Predestination is
about “measuring the materials of a bed for length, breadth, and shape”, then fate
“corresponds to [actually] composing them into a bed”, according to Shaykh
Ah mad.5  ‘Abdu’l-Baha  uses the example that “… God hath created a relation
between the sun and the terrestrial globe that the rays of the sun should shine and
the soil should yield.”6
At the stages of predestination and fate, elements of choice and free will can
be factored in.  However, as Nader Saiedi notes, “… the Ba b makes clear, the
relation of divine causation and knowledge to human action cannot be
comprehended within the categories of human reason.”7  In general, the Ba b does
not encourage a dichotomy approach between determinism and free will but a

John Hatcher, The Purpose of Physical Reality, p. 98.
Kevin Brown, Creation.
Shaykh Ah mad Ah sa ’í , cited by Farshid Kazemi, “Mysteries of Alast”.
‘Abdu’l-Baha , Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 185.
Robin Mihrshahi, A Wondrous New Day.
‘Abdu’l-Baha , Selections, p. 198.
Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 213.

1.  God and His Creation

middle path with many pluralities occurring at the Predestination and Fate
stages:
It is in the station of Destiny that pluralities appear, lights are distinguished
from shadows, and essences are differentiated from attributes.  It is by virtue
of this station that the wicked becometh wicked on account of his free choice,
and the just becometh just, through the grace of God, on account of his free
choice.  Thus Destiny is “the womb of the pure realm of contingency” and “the
most great depth.” …  Verily, the reason for the manifestation of these
distinctions in the station of Destiny is the very manifestation of freedom
inasmuch as, verily, naught cometh into being in the world save through its
own free choice.  Though it is created free even in the station of the Will, its
freedom is not reckoned by anyone except the Subtile, the All-Perceiving.  The
same is true with regard to the second station, for the aspect of the
acceptance of good and evil is the third station, which cannot appear except
after the union of the previous two stations [Will and Determination].1
The Predestination and fate dyad is followed by the execution stage where
the material realization of the nothingness occurs.  The Term stage represents
the life cycle of the “thingness” and the book stage constitutes its final
consummation within God’s creation.  After the ensuing execution stage, nothing
can be changed except through divine intercession as Baha ’u’lla h explains:
Know thou, O fruit of My Tree, that the decrees of the Sovereign Ordainer, as
related to fate and predestination, are of two kinds.  Both are to be obeyed
and accepted.  The one is irrevocable, the other is, as termed by men,
impending.  To the former all must unreservedly submit, inasmuch as it is
fixed and settled.  God, however, is able to alter or repeal it.  As the harm that
must result from such a change will be greater than if the decree had
remained unaltered, all, therefore, should willingly acquiesce in what God
hath willed and confidently abide by the same.2
This arc of descent can also apply to the realm of personal matters such as
prayers as the Hand of the Cause Abu’l-Qasim Faizi explains:
The Báb says that there are seven stages.  Every existence, every living
thing, or non-living thing, must go through these seven stages, from its
birth to its death.  I want to explain this because of the problem of prayers.
[S]uppose you are sitting here, in your room and you think about your life,
your requirements, and whatever you need for your life, and so on.
Suppose suddenly you think that you need a table.  He says as long as you
are sitting here, it is in the stage of desire.  Only you desire to have a table.
But the moment you decide and you get up to do something about it, the
desire is changed into will.  Now the third thing is matter.  You need some
material for it.  You go and choose the best planks of wood that are
available, and you are free to do so throughout the world ….  After that you

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 214.
Baha ’u’lla h, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 133.

Dispensation of the Ba b
need someone to make it for you.  You need a carpenter.  Again, you are
free to choose anyone you like throughout the world.  Would you like to
have the best carpenters of Denmark who are very famous for their
furniture?  All right, go to Denmark and have it done.  And when you take
your material to the carpenter and tell him you want a table, he asks, “What
kind of table?”  You say that you want a desk.  How large do you want it?
Here also you are free to give him the measurements.  All right, you give
him the measurements.  You give him everything.  From here on your
freedom is stopped.  Why?  Because when you go home, the planks of wood
you gave to the carpenter have been cut according to your measurements.
But now you say you wanted a desk really five by nine, and you told him
three by four.  When you go back, he says that he has already cut the wood.
Now, the Báb says, here is where your prayers will not have any effect.  It’s
cut and you cannot change it.  You cannot take it back to its original form.
Up to that point you must attract the attention of God.  You must devotedly
pray to God that each step you take will be guided by Him, until such time
as you give your final decision.  When the final decision is made, then no
matter how much you pray, it’s impossible to change it.  You see how much
is in these seven steps.  Five steps are in our own hands.  Then there is the
sixth step, which is completion, and the seventh one is death.  For
everything there is a time to die.  Therefore, whatever we want to do,
please think it over, pray for the guidance of God, for the material, for the
proper men to do it, anything we want, and then God will kindly out of His
own bounty, our of His own favor, guide us.  But after we have made our
decision, determination, and decided upon something, then there is no use
of praying.1

The teachings of the Ba b and His elucidations about God and His creation—
namely, the essence of God, the Primal Will, the Word of God and how the world
of beings and things come into existence—bring completely new insights to
clearly explain those eternal spiritual concepts that sustain God’s revelation to
humanity.
Although paralleling the theology of the Abrahamic religions, which constitute
more than half of the faith adherents in the world, the preceding analysis reveals
how much the teachings of the Ba b have augmented and transformed what had
already been revealed.  The divine philosophy of the Ba b emphasized the oneness
of God, and that humanity came to exist from the same God and through the
Primal Will.
According to sociologist Mangol Bayat, the Ba b “aimed at revealing a new
religion and not just reforming Shia Islam ….”2  As such, Babiism brought a
distinct theophany, proposing that, even within the dogma of the eternal unity of

Abu’l-Qasim Faizi.  Talk given by Hand of the Cause of God, p. 16.
Bayat Mangol.  Mysticism and dissent, p. 88.

1.  God and His Creation

God, “there is constant renewal—new conditions, new creation, new order, while
divergences and contradictions are merely illusory.”1
Reflecting on the distinctive nature and claims of this new revelation, the Ba b
calls His Faith “a new Cause”, “the Wondrous Cause” (al-Amr al-Badí‘), the
“Wondrous Truth” (al-Ḥaqq al-Badí‘), the “pure religion” (al-dín al-kháliṣ) and a
“new [Prophetic] creation” (khalq al-badí‘).2


idem, p. 102.
Amanat, “The Persian Bayan and the Shaping of the Babi Renewal”, p. 337.



Image Section 1


Figure 2 - The shop which was used by the Báb during His days in Búshihr


Figure 3:  Site of the Kázirán gate, entrance to the city to Shíráz

2.  God and His Manifestations
















































Figure 4:  The market-street of
Vakil, Shíráz
Figure 5: Masjid-i-
Vakíl where the Báb
addressed the
congregation,
Shíráz—Entrance
door
Figure 6: View of the Masjid-i-Vakíl, Shíráz—
Section of the interior
Figure 7: View of the
pulpit in the Masjid-i-
Vakíl, Shíráz from
where the Báb
addressed the
congregation

Dispensation of the Ba b















































Figure 8: Room (left hand side) where
the Báb was born
Figure 9: View of the House of
the Báb where He declared His
Missions—Entrance
Figure 10: The Báb’s
sitting room

2.  God and His Manifestations
















































Figure 11: The room used
by the mother of the
Báb—Fáṭimih Begum
Figure 12: Bedchamber of
the Báb
Figure 13: View of the upper room of the House of the
Báb in Shíráz where He declared His Mission

Dispensation of the Ba b














































Figure 14: View of the
upper room of the House
of the Báb in Shíráz
where He declared His
Mission
Figure 15: View of the
upper room of the House
of the Báb in Shíráz
where He declared His
Mission
Figure 16: Orange tree
planted by the Báb in the
courtyard of His House



God and His Manifestations
In His writings, the Ba b clarified the relationship between religions, stating
that all are part of a single and eternal process progressively revealing God’s will
to humanity.  He explained that the Messengers of God are the mouthpieces of the
Creator and the channel through which the penetrating effect of the Word of God
can be transmitted to humanity.
In addition, the Ba b explained through His written revelation the reason for
the rejection of the Prophets throughout ages, and elaborated upon classical
theological concepts associated with the Resurrection, the Day of God and other
themes outlined in the Scriptures of the past.
The main interrelated themes discussed in this chapter are:
•
The Primal Will and the Manifestations of God
•
The various stations of the Manifestations of God
•
Recognizing the Manifestations of God
•
God reveals Himself progressively to humanity through His
Manifestations—known as the principle of progressive revelation
•
The great Day of God and the Resurrection
•
Reaching towards the presence of God
The Primal Will and the Manifestations of God
The Ba b stated that God’s essence is beyond human comprehension.  Hence,
throughout history the Messengers of God have been the channel through which
the grace and guidance of God are imparted.  Addressing the Ba b, God states:
O Spirit of God!  Call Thou to mind the bounty which I bestowed upon Thee
when I conversed with Thee in the midmost heart of My Sanctuary and aided
Thee through the potency of the Holy Spirit that Thou mightest, as the
peerless Mouthpiece of God, proclaim unto men the commandments of God
which lie enshrined within the divine Spirit.1
The Ba b states that each Messenger of God constitutes the Primal Will Itself:
… the One Who is manifest in all the Messengers that have ever been sent or
will ever be sent, is the same Will.2
In a beautiful paragraph, the Ba b explains the effect of the Primal Will on
humanity through the intervention of each Messenger of God:
If, however, thou art sailing upon the sea of creation, know thou that the First
Remembrance [The Báb], which is the Primal Will of God, may be likened
unto the sun.  God hath created Him through the potency of His might, and

The Ba b, Selections, pp. 63–64.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 245.

Dispensation of the Ba b
He hath, from the beginning that hath no beginning, caused Him to be
manifested in every Dispensation through the compelling power of His
behest, and God will, to the end that knoweth no end, continue to manifest
Him according to the good-pleasure of His invincible Purpose.
And know thou that He [The Báb] indeed resembleth the sun.  Were the
risings of the sun to continue till the end that hath no end, yet there hath not
been nor ever will be more than one sun; and were its settings to endure
forevermore, still there hath not been nor ever will be more than one sun.  It
is this Primal Will which appeareth resplendent in every Prophet and
speaketh forth in every revealed Book.  It knoweth no beginning, inasmuch
as the First deriveth its firstness from It; and knoweth no end, for the Last
oweth its lastness unto It.
In the time of the First Manifestation the Primal Will appeared in Adam; in
the day of Noah It became known in Noah; in the day of Abraham in Him;
and so in the day of Moses; the day of Jesus; the day of Muḥammad, the
Apostle of God; the day of the “Point of the Bayán”; the day of Him Whom God
shall make Manifest; and the day of the One Who will appear after Him
Whom God shall make Manifest [Bahá’u’lláh].  Hence the inner meaning of
the words uttered by the Apostle of God, “I am all the Prophets,” inasmuch as
what shineth resplendent in each one of Them hath been and will ever
remain the one and the same sun.1
The Messengers can be considered equal in rank.  In the same passage, the
Ba b emphasizes the need to recognize the Primal Will in each Prophet in
order to recognize God:
All that hath ever dawned and set is verily the same sun.  In like manner, the
One Who is manifest in all the Messengers that have ever been sent or will
ever be sent, is the same Will.  Give heed then unto the recognition of that
Will in all Its Revelations.  This is thy recognition of thy Lord, and thy
certitude in thy Fashioner.  There is no beginning and no end for that divine
Creation, for He traverseth from the beginning that hath no beginning to the
end that hath no end.2
The process whereby the Primal Will engages with humanity is referred to as
the “Revelation of God”.  In the following passage the Ba b likens the Primal Will
to the Tree of Existence in the context of the divine revelation:
The revelation of the Divine Reality hath everlastingly been identical with its
concealment and its concealment identical with its revelation.  That which is
intended by “Revelation of God” is the Tree of divine Truth that betokeneth
none but Him, and it is this divine Tree that hath raised and will raise up
Messengers, and hath revealed and will ever reveal Scriptures.

The Ba b, Selections, pp. 125–126.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 245.

2.  God and His Manifestations

From eternity unto eternity this Tree of divine Truth hath served and will
ever serve as the throne of the revelation and concealment of God among His
creatures, and in every age is made manifest through whomsoever He
pleaseth.1
More importantly, the Ba b teaches us that the only way to recognize God is
through the acceptance of the Manifestations of God:
Therefore wert thou to look at all the Revelations from the first, which was
that of Adam, to infinity, thou wouldst not see anything endued with reality
except through God, and wouldst fail to recognize the Manifestation of
Divinity except through the Exalted Tree of His Revelation, which is naught
but the Primal Will.  This is the decree, for naught else is possible in this
contingent world.2
It is clear therefore from the teachings of the Ba b that the Words of God
pronounced by the Manifestation “… are the Word of the Will Himself, which is
naught but the Word of God.”3  In Biblical terms, “In the beginning was the Word,
and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.”4  That the Words
pronounced by the Manifestation can be attributed to God, is explained by
the Ba b:
Those who have been, or will ever be, in the presence of This Tree recognize
that these words proceed from His pure primordial nature, and that
speaking in such a mode is easier and closer to Him than speaking in the
mode of prayers, sermons, rational arguments, or the Persian modes.  For
this is the language of His Inmost Reality which referreth unto naught but
God alone.  It is for that reason that the divine verses are called the Words of
God and praised as the divine Logos.5
The two stations of the Manifestations of God
One of the central teachings of the Ba b is, generally speaking, that the
Manifestations of God have a dual nature.  The first is the human and the second
is that of the divine.
In His human station, the Manifestation of God can be seen as another human
being in the physical plane.  Talking about Himself, the Ba b said:  “Indeed I am
a man like unto you.  However, God bestoweth upon Me whatever favors He willeth
and He pleaseth, and that which your Lord hath decreed in the Mother Book is
unbounded.”6  In the Bible, Jesus said to a man:  “Why do you call me good? …  No

The Ba b, Selections, p. 112.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 183.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 48.
John 1:1.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 48.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 73.

Dispensation of the Ba b
one is good—except God alone.”1   Likewise, in the Qur’a n, Muh ammad was
commanded to say:  “I truly fear—if I were to disobey my Lord—the torment of
a tremendous Day.”2
The other aspect of this dual nature is that of the “vicegerency of God”3 where
the Manifestations of God “proclaim unto men the commandments of God which lie
enshrined within the divine Spirit.”4  ‘Abdu’l-Baha  refers to this dimension as that
of the “… divine manifestation and heavenly splendour.”5
Within this realm, the Manifestation may speak as the voice of divinity itself.
It is here that the Ba b  describes the relationship between God and the
Manifestation as becoming one:
The Primal Will, once it is manifested in this world at the behest of God,
speaketh of all things, and by virtue of its speaking thereof, all things are
brought into existence.  When He revealeth, ‘I am verily the Mirror of God,’ a
mirror is created in which naught is seen save the Countenance of God.6
This plane is, “the unseen station, where naught is seen in the Will save God”,7
and “the station of His unknown and unknowable Essence, the Manifestation of His
Divinity.”8  In the Qayyu mu’l-Asma ’, the Ba b wrote:  “The Lord hath, in truth,
inspired Me:  Verily, verily, I am God, He besides Whom there is none other God, and
I am indeed the Ancient of Days ….”9  The above does not mean that the
Manifestation of God is God, rather that God at that moment is revealing Himself
through His Manifestation.  In this connection Jesus said:  “I am in the Father and
the Father in me.”10  In the Qur’a n, for example, Muh ammad revealed the
following words that God spoke to Moses indicative of that exalted station:
“Verily I am God; there is no god but I; therefore serve Me, and perform the prayer
of My remembrance.”11  Likewise, Jesus said:  “No one comes to the Father except
through Me.”12
In this regard, Baha ’u’lla h also affirms that:
Were any of the all-embracing Manifestations of God to declare:  “I am God,”
He, verily, speaketh the truth, and no doubt attacheth thereto.  For it hath

Mark 10:18.
Qur’a n 10:15.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 66.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 64.
‘Abdu’l-Baha , Some Answered Questions, p, 172.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 175.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 184.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 46.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 58.
10 John 14:11.
11 Qur’a n 20:14.
12 John 14:6.

2.  God and His Manifestations

been repeatedly demonstrated that through their Revelation, their
attributes and names, the Revelation of God, His names and His attributes,
are made manifest in the world.  Thus, He hath revealed:  “Those shafts were
God’s, not Thine.”  And also He saith:  “In truth, they who plighted fealty unto
Thee, really plighted that fealty unto God.”1
Another facet of this divine station is when the Manifestation does not assume
the dimension of One identical with the Godhead (i.e. that of “essential unity”) but
rather of a particular Divine Messenger—in this case the Ba b—Whom God has
summonsed to reveal, instruct, exhort, and admonish humanity on His behalf.
For example:
I have called Thee into being, have nurtured Thee, protected Thee, loved
Thee, raised Thee up and have graciously chosen Thee to be the
manifestation of Mine Own Self, that Thou mayest recite My verses as
ordained by Me, and may summon whomsoever I have created unto My
Religion which is none other than this glorious and exalted Path.2
The Ba b also states human and divine stations are connected:
Thus, all His revealed divine verses stream forth on behalf of God ….  All else
beyond this supreme Sign present within Him is His creation ….
And within the inmost reality of all things there hath been, and will forever
continue to be, a sign from God through which the unity of the Lord is
celebrated.  This sign, however, is a reflection of His Will present within it,
through which naught is seen but God.  However, within the Will, that
supreme Sign is the Will Itself, the Supreme Mirror of God, which hath never
referred, nor will it ever refer, to aught but God. …  He is the possessor of two
signs, that of God and that of creation, and through the latter he worshippeth
God and boweth in adoration before Him.  In like manner, all things adore
their Beloved through the sign of Creation, though it hath never reached, nor
will it ever reach, beyond its own sign from God, which is present within it
and pointeth unto Him.3
As noted in the preceding section, all the Manifestations are of the same
degree because They are “the same sun”.4  The Manifestations share a mystical
identity since They are all Manifestations of the Primal Will and at the same
time form a pre-existent unity with the Primal Will.  For example, Jesus said,
“Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am.” (John 8:58)  He also prayed
“… Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with you
before the world existed.” (John 17:5)  According to the Ba b, “Every Manifestation

Baha ’u’lla h, Gleanings, p. 54.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 158.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 46.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 245.

Dispensation of the Ba b
is but a revelation of Thine Own Self with each of Whom we have truly appeared
and we bow down in adoration before Thee.”1
Recognizing the Manifestations of God
The Ba b explains that while we cannot recognize the Essence of God, we can
recognize His Manifestations as a means by which knowledge of God is gained.
“True knowledge, therefore,” says the Ba b, “is the knowledge of God, and this is none
other than the recognition of His Manifestation in each Dispensation.”2
The Ba b refers to the Manifestations of God as the “Suns of Truth”—through
Whom we gain knowledge of God:
Inasmuch as the recognition of the Eternal and Unseen Essence hath been
impossible …, He, therefore, hath enjoined all, from the beginning that hath
no beginning to the end that hath no end, to recognize the Sun of Truth, Who
is the Mirror of His Essence and the Primal Will, Who is the Throne of His
Manifestation.  He hath accepted the recognition of that Sun of Truth as the
recognition of His own Reality ….3
Hence, all human attributes originate from God and not from ourselves:
If in the Day of His manifestation a king were to make mention of his own
sovereignty, this would be like unto a mirror challenging the sun, saying:
“The light is in me.”  It would be likewise, if a man of learning in His Day were
to claim to be an exponent of knowledge, or if he who is possessed of riches
were to display his affluence, or if a man wielding power were to assert his
own authority, or if one invested with grandeur were to show forth his glory.
Nay, such men would become the object of the derision of their peers, and
how would they be judged by Him Who is the Sun of Truth!4
Moreover, the Manifestations of God are necessary to educate people
“otherwise the religion of God is too mighty and glorious for anyone to comprehend
through aught but itself; rather by it all else is understood”.5  The Ba b stated in this
regard:
Yet, inasmuch as the acknowledgement of such an exalted Cause is difficult
for most people, He hath brought these mighty stations to the level of the
body of words, in such wise that none hath the power to produce the like
thereof, so that the divine testimony would be as conclusive to all beings as
the Day-Star shining in the zenith of heaven.6

The Ba b, Selections, p. 4.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 89.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 184.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 100.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 109.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 228.

2.  God and His Manifestations

The process of conversion, that is, recognizing a Manifestation of God, is a
unique one through which the human soul becomes a mirror illumined by the
Sun of Truth.  “How beloved it hath been,” says the Ba b, “and continueth to be,
before God that in each Revelation pure mirrors will reflect the Tree of Truth.”1
He also affirms:
They that truly believe in God and in His signs, and who in every Dispensation
faithfully obey that which hath been revealed in the Book—such are indeed
the ones whom God hath created from the fruits of the Paradise of His good-
pleasure, and who are of the blissful.2
Believing is an act of love because “[T]he recognition of Him Who is the
Bearer of divine Truth is none other than the recognition of God, and loving Him is
none other than loving God.”  “Take heed then that perchance ye may,” the Ba b
further says, “through the grace of God and His signs, be enabled to redeem your
souls.”3
Believing is also an act of affirmation to which all can universally attain:
The One true God may be compared unto the sun and the believer unto a
mirror.  No sooner is the mirror placed before the sun than it reflects its light.
The unbeliever may be likened unto a stone.  No matter how long it is exposed
to the sunshine, it cannot reflect the sun.  Thus the former layeth down his
life as a sacrifice, while the latter doeth against God what he committeth.
Indeed, if God willeth, He is potent to turn the stone into a mirror, but the
person himself remaineth reconciled to his state.  Had he wished to become
a crystal, God would have made him to assume crystal form.  For on that Day
whatever cause prompteth the believer to believe in Him, the same will also
be available to the unbeliever.4
There is indeed no excuse to reject the Manifestation of God because
people are given “the choice either to believe in God their Lord, and put their whole
trust in Him, or to shut themselves out from Him and refuse to believe with certitude
in His signs.”5  According to the Ba b, the one who denies “suffereth himself to be
wrapt in veils.”6
Among the most powerful veils is arrogance:
Since all men have issued forth from the shadow of the signs of His Divinity
and Lordship, they always tend to take a path, lofty and high.  And because
they are bereft of a discerning eye to recognize their Beloved, they fall short
of their duty to manifest meekness and humility towards Him.  Nevertheless,

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 393.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 147.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 147.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 103.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 147.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 103.

Dispensation of the Ba b
from the beginning of their lives till the end thereof, in conformity with the
laws established in the previous religion, they worship God, piously adore
Him, bow themselves before His divine Reality and show submissiveness
toward His exalted Essence.  At the hour of His manifestation, however, they
all turn their gaze toward their own selves and are thus shut out from Him,
inasmuch as they fancifully regard Him as one like unto themselves.1
And for those who decide to enter the sea of negation, the Ba b has these
words:
But they who turn away from God and His signs in each Dispensation, those
are the ones who sail upon the sea of negation.  God hath, through the
potency of His behest, ordained for Himself the task of ensuring the
ascendancy of the sea of affirmation and of bringing to naught the sea of
negation through the power of His might.  He is in truth potent over all
things.  Verily it is incumbent upon you to recognize your Lord at the time of
His manifestation, that haply ye may not enter into negation, and that, ere a
prophet is raised by God, ye may find yourselves securely established upon
the sea of affirmation.  For if a prophet cometh to you from God and ye fail
to walk in His Way, God will, thereupon, transform your light into fire.  Take
heed then that perchance ye may, through the grace of God and His signs, be
enabled to redeem your souls.2
That some people believe, and some do not, is a combination of
predisposition and choice as the Ba b explains:
If man knew how God created His creation, no one would ever blame another.
This means that God has created mankind (khalq) according to the
creatures’ already existing propensities for acceptance or rejection [of the
truth].  The cause of rejection is the same as the cause of acceptance, namely
choice (ikhtiyár).  God has given to each what he deserves according to his
already existing propensity (bi-má huwa ‘alayhi).  This divine knowledge is
the knowledge of potentialities.3
Consider how at the time of the appearance of every Revelation, those who
open their hearts to the Author of that Revelation recognize the Truth, while
the hearts of those who fail to apprehend the Truth are straitened by reason
of their shutting themselves out from Him.  However, openness of heart is
bestowed by God upon both parties alike.  God desireth not to straiten the
heart of anyone, be it even an ant, how much less the heart of a superior
creature, except when he suffereth himself to be wrapt in veils, for God is the
Creator of all things.4

The Ba b, Selections, p. 92.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 145.
The Ba b in Todd Lawson, “Interpretation as Revelation”, p. 252.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 133.

2.  God and His Manifestations

The progressive revelation of God to humanity
The Ba b confirms that God has always guided humanity by the progressive
revelation of Himself through His Manifestations or Messengers:
God hath raised up Prophets and revealed Books as numerous as the
creatures of the world, and will continue to do so to everlasting.1
Thy Lord hath never raised up a prophet in the past who failed to summon
the people to His Lord, and today is truly similar to the times of old, were ye
to ponder over the verses revealed by God.2
There should be no doubt that, before this Adam, there have been infinite
worlds and endless Adams in God’s creation, to a degree that none besides
God can, or ever will, reckon.3
Further, the Ba b indicates that the sending of the prophets is like a chain
linking all religions progressively:
The Lord of the universe hath never raised up a prophet nor hath He sent
down a Book unless He hath established His covenant with all men, calling
for their acceptance of the next Revelation and of the next Book; inasmuch
as the outpourings of His bounty are ceaseless and without limit.4
The Ba b explains the concept of progressive revelation as the rising and
setting of the sun:
No matter how innumerable its risings, there is but one sun, and upon it
depends the life of all things.  It is clear and evident that the object of all
preceding Dispensations hath been to pave the way for the advent of
Muḥammad, the Apostle of God.  These, including the Muḥammadan
Dispensation, have had, in their turn, as their objective the Revelation
proclaimed by the Qá’im.  The purpose underlying this Revelation, as well as
those that preceded it, has, in like manner, been to announce the advent of
the Faith of Him Whom God will make manifest,  And this Faith—the Faith
of Him Whom God will make manifest [Bahá’u’lláh]—in its turn, together
with all the Revelations gone before it, have as their object the Manifestation
destined to succeed it.  And the latter, no less than all the Revelations
preceding it, prepare the way for the Revelation which is yet to follow.5
The succession of religions does not signify that the previous one is
inferior to the one that follows.  The Ba b uses the analogy of an embryo to
demonstrate the relationship between the divine Revelations:

The Ba b, Selections, p. 125.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 161.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 196.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 87.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 105–106.

Dispensation of the Ba b
This doth not mean, however, that one ought not to yield praise unto former
Revelations.  On no account is this acceptable, inasmuch as it behooveth man,
upon reaching the age of nineteen, to render thanksgiving for the day of his
conception as an embryo.  For had the embryo not existed, how could he have
reached his present state?  Likewise had the religion taught by Adam not
existed, this Faith would not have attained its present stage.  Thus consider
thou the development of God’s Faith until the end that hath no end.1
Further, the Ba b says that in each dispensation, the new revelation constitutes
the renewal of the previous one:  “Indeed no religion shall We ever inaugurate
unless it be renewed in the days to come.  This is a promise We solemnly have
made.”2  Hence, the Ba b claims that if Muslims had been observing the Qur’a n they
would have accepted Him without reservation but were instead like the pious
Christians who failed to accept Muh ammad as the next Manifestation:
In these days how few are those who abide by the standard laid down in the
Qur’án.  Nay, nowhere are they to be found, except such as God hath willed.
Should there be, however, such a person, his righteous deeds would prove of
no avail unto him, if he hath failed to follow the standard revealed in the
Bayán; even as the pious deeds of the Christian monks profited them not,
inasmuch as at the time of the manifestation of the Apostle of God
[Muḥammad]—may the blessings of God rest upon Him—they contented
themselves with the standard set forth in the Gospel.3
All prophets were rejected by most of the people among whom They
appeared, and so was the Ba b.  According to Shoghi Effendi “the Ba b says that
every religion of the past was fit to become universal.”4  In particular, the Ba b
refers to the case of Christianity where most believers failed to recognize
Muh ammad who appeared 600 years after Jesus Christ.
Ponder upon the people unto whom the Gospel was given.  Their religious
leaders were considered as the true Guides of the Gospel, yet when they shut
themselves out from Muḥammad, the Apostle of God, they turned into guides
of error, notwithstanding that all their lives they had faithfully observed the
precepts of their religion in order to attain unto Paradise; then when God
made Paradise known unto them, they would not enter therein.5
The nature of this rejection is also elaborated by the Ba b:
It is recorded in a tradition that of the entire concourse of the Christians no
more than seventy people embraced the Faith of the Apostle of God.  The
blame falleth upon their doctors, for if these had believed, they would have
been followed by the mass of their countrymen.  Behold, then, that which

The Ba b, Selections, p. 89.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 159.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 102.
Shoghi Effendi in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II, p. 4.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 143.

2.  God and His Manifestations

hath come to pass!  The learned men of Christendom are held to be learned
by virtue of their safeguarding the teaching of Christ, and yet consider how
they themselves have been the cause of men’s failure to accept the Faith and
attain unto salvation!1
That the religious leadership acted as a hindrance to acceptance of the
Messengers of God is further attested by the Ba b:  “At the time of every revelation
the people of that revelation were veiled by the learned (‘ulama ’) of that
revelation.”2  He further states:
Had they been content with their own veiled condition and had they not dealt
unjustly with anyone and not issued commands contrary to what has been
revealed in the Book of God, they would have had cast themselves into
hellfire.  But now, their own punishment as well as that of whoever imagines
them to be the ulama of Islam—nay, rather [the punishment] of whoever
failed or will fail to believe in the Revelation of God, will be upon them.3
The great Day of God and the Resurrection
The appearance of the Ba b marks the beginning of the cycle of fulfilment
and the end of the Adamic cycle, which was the cycle of prophecy.  “Verily I say,
this is the Day spoken of by God in His Book …,” said the Ba b.4  “When God sent forth
His Prophet Muḥammad, on that day the termination of the prophetic cycle was
foreordained in the knowledge of God.”5
The cycle of fulfilment preordained in all previous dispensations was
acclaimed as the “Day of God” or the “Days of God”:
O My servants!  This is God’s appointed Day which the merciful Lord hath
promised you in His Book; wherefore, in very truth, glorify ye abundantly the
name of God while treading the Path of the Most Great Remembrance [the
Báb] ….6
Along with the concept of the Day of God comes that of the “Day of
Resurrection”.  The Holy Books include many references to this concept.  In the
Book of Daniel, it is written, “And many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth
shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting
contempt” (Daniel 12:2).  In the New Testament it is written:  “For the trumpet
will sound, the dead will be raised imperishable, and we will be changed” (1
Corinthians 15:52).  In the Qur’a n (4:87) Muh ammad says “He will surely assemble
you all together on the Day of Resurrection, about which there is no doubt.”

The Ba b, Selections, pp. 123–124.
The Ba b in Eschraghi, “Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy”, p. 234.
The Ba b in Eschraghi, “Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy”, p. 234.
The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 92.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 161.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 72.

Dispensation of the Ba b
The above prophecies are generally misinterpreted and wrongly understood
to mean the literal rising of the dead from their graves.  The Day of Resurrection
actually refers to the resurrection of the previous Manifestation of God in the
appearance of the subsequent Manifestation of God.  For the Ba b, the
resurrection is not a resurrection of the physical body but of the spiritual
Being—that same “Word” that “was made flesh” in Jesus “and dwelt amongst us”1
and was subsequently incarnated in Muh ammad.  This leads to another question:
if the Day of Resurrection occurs when the next Manifestation of God brings a
new Revelation, how long does it last?  The answer to this is clearly stated by the
Ba b:
… what is meant by the Day of Resurrection is this, that from the time of the
appearance of Him Who is the Tree of divine Reality, at whatever period and
under whatever name, until the moment of His disappearance, is the Day of
Resurrection.2
The Ba b further explains:
For example, from the inception of the mission of Jesus … till the day of His
ascension was the Resurrection of Moses ….  And from the inception of the
Revelation of the Apostle of God—may the blessings of God be upon Him—
till the day of His ascension was the Resurrection of Jesus—peace be upon
Him—wherein the Tree of Divine Reality appeared in the person of
Muḥammad ….  And from the moment when the Tree of the Bayán appeared
until it disappeareth is the Resurrection of the Apostle of God, as is divinely
foretold in the Qur’án.3
The Day of Resurrection is sometimes used synonymously with the term ‘Day
of Judgement’; and so it is, because all the people of the world are judged
whenever the new Manifestation of God appears and declares His Mission.
According to the Persian Baya n (2:9), when the Manifestation of God appears, the
spiritual lives of all the inhabitants of earth come to an end.  Those who accept
Him are spiritually resuscitated.  Those who reject Him remain in their spiritual
graves.
As well as there being a Day of Judgement for all mankind, every individual
soul faces a day of judgement at the end of its physical life, when each of us must
answer to God as to how we responded to the Manifestation for that Era.  In the
Persian Baya n (2:10) it is stated that the bodies of people once allegorically dead
become their own graves.  In the resurrection to occur with the appearance of the
Manifestation of God, each spirit will be asked about its faith (2:10).  If a believer,
its grave shall become a garden of paradise; otherwise, he or she will belong in
hell.  The Ba b wrote:
…  the soul of no believer shall be taken but his grave shall become as a
garden of the Gardens of Paradise, wherein God hath created that which he

John 1:14, KJB.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 107–107.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 107.

2.  God and His Manifestations

loves ready for him.  So also there is none who shall disbelieve in the Bayán
but shall suffer what the pen dares not write.  Happy that person whose soul
shall be taken after that he hath believed in Him whom God shall manifest
and his words, for he is a believer in the Bayán and all that is in the Bayán.1
Thus the Ba b teaches that at the end of their physical lives, those who
recognize the Manifestation will enter paradise whereas those who reject Him
will live in Hell.
The Ba b also elaborated on another way of understanding spiritual life and
death in terms of the death of the ego:
“True death,” the Ba b says, “is realized when a person dieth to himself at the
time of His Revelation in such wise that he seeketh naught except Him.”2  “True
resurrection from the sepulchres” the Ba b further affirms, “means to be quickened
in conformity with His Will, through the power of His utterance.”3
In conclusion, we can understand that each time a Manifestation arrives, a
Day of Resurrection occurs.  “It is for this reason,” the Ba b states, “that the Day
of Resurrection is said to be the greatest of all days, yet it is like unto any other day
….”4  “The Day of Resurrection is a day on which the sun riseth and setteth like unto
any other day.  How oft hath the Day of Resurrection dawned, and the people of the
land where it occurred did not learn of the event.”5
Resurrection also has an additional meaning—that of the consummation of the
previous dispensation:
The stage of perfection of everything is reached when its resurrection
occurreth.  The perfection of the religion of Islám was consummated at the
beginning of this Revelation; and from the rise of this Revelation until its
setting, the fruits of the Tree of Islám, whatever they are, will become
apparent.  The Resurrection of the Bayán [The Báb] will occur at the time of
the appearance of Him Whom God will make manifest.6
Reaching towards the presence of God
Along with this new conceptualization of Resurrection comes the religious
concept of “reaching towards the presence of God”.  The Bible says, “They will be
punished with everlasting destruction and shut out from the presence of the Lord
and from the glory of his might” (2 Thessalonians 1:9) and the Qur’a n reads:  “On
the day when they will be brought into the presence of their Lord, their greeting
to each other will be, ‘Peace be with you.’” (33:44)  The “presence” here is meant
to be understood as a symbolic presence.

The Ba b in Momen, Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne, p. 326.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 157.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 158.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 79.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 78.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 107.

Dispensation of the Ba b
The Ba b explains that reaching the presence of God refers to attaining the
presence of a Manifestation of God during His earthly life:
There is no paradise more wondrous for any soul than to be exposed to God’s
Manifestation in His Day, to hear His verses and believe in them, to attain His
presence, which is naught but the presence of God, to sail upon the sea of the
heavenly kingdom of His good-pleasure, and to partake of the choice fruits
of the paradise of His divine Oneness.1
For on that Day all men will be brought before God and will attain His
Presence; which meaneth appearance before Him Who is the Tree of divine
Reality and attainment unto His presence; inasmuch as it is not possible to
appear before the Most Holy Essence of God, nor is it conceivable to seek
reunion with Him.  That which is feasible in the matter of appearance before
Him and of meeting Him is attainment unto the Primal Tree.2
In explaining the meaning of “heaven” and “hell” the Ba b affirmed that “no
Paradise is more sublime for My creatures than to stand before My face and to
believe in My holy Words, while no fire hath been or will be fiercer for them than to
be veiled from the Manifestation of My exalted Self and to disbelieve in My Words.”3
The converted were lovingly encouraged to attain the presence of the Ba b
during their lifetime:
And hadst thou attained the presence of thy Lord in this land, and been of
them that truly believe that the Face of God is beheld in the person of the
Primal Point, it would have been far more advantageous than prostrating
thyself in adoration from the beginning that hath no beginning until the
present time ….4

Through God’s progressive revelation we know that Khrishna, Zoroaster,
Buddha, Abraham, Moses, Christ, Muh ammad, the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h were all
Manifestations of God—forming something like a divine chain of divine
Messengers.  In the words of Baha ’u’lla h, “Everyone of them is the Way to God that
connecteth this world with the realm above.”5
The theology of the Ba b also contains many motifs from the Old and New
Testament and the Qur’a n, including references to the second coming,
resurrection, atonement, heaven, hell and purgatory—all of which are re-
interpreted—while providing new insights.
In brief, the divine philosophy of the Ba b constitutes the most advanced
theological framework witnessed by humanity up until the middle of the
nineteenth century when the Revelation of Baha ’u’lla h supervened.

The Ba b, Selections, p. 77.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 108.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 87.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 36.
Baha ’u’lla h, Gleanings, p. 50.



Divine annunciations
The coming of the Prophets of God has always been announced in the sacred
texts of the religions of the world and documented in history.  This was
particularly the case between John the Baptist and Jesus, and between the Ba b
and Baha ’u’lla h, in the Christian and Ba bí -Baha ’í  religions.  This chapter will
narrate those two annunciatory accounts as well as the story of the Magi of
Bethlehem and the story of Salma n, which are situated in the context of the
Zoroastrian Faith.
Mission of the Báb
Part of the mission of the Ba b as the “Gate” was to announce the imminent
appearance of another Divine Figure in the person of Baha ’u’lla h.
“Now what He intended by the term Báb [Gate] was this,” ‘Abdu’l-Baha
explained, “that He was the channel of grace from some great Person still behind
the veil of glory, Who was the possessor of countless and boundless perfections, by
Whose will He moved, and to the bond of Whose love He clung ….”1  Shoghi Effendi
further elaborated that the “twofold mission” of the Ba b was to be “the Bearer of
a wholly independent Revelation and the Herald of One still greater than His
own.”2
In various Writings, the Ba b reaffirmed His role as the Forerunner of
Baha ’u’lla h.  According to the Ba b:
I, verily, have not fallen short of My duty to admonish that people, and to
devise means whereby they may turn towards God, their Lord, and believe in
God, their Creator. …  I truly have nurtured all things for this purpose.  How,
then, can anyone be veiled from Him?3
The Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h are two Messengers of God inextricably linked to each
other both historically and doctrinally.  They are designated as the “Twin
Manifestations of God”.  The Ba b wrote regarding the appearance of Baha ’u’lla h:
I behold His appearance even as the sun in the midmost heaven, and the
disappearance of all even as that of the stars of the night by day.4
I Myself am but the first servant to believe in Him, and in His signs, and
partake of the sweet savours of His words from the first-fruits of the Paradise
of His knowledge.  Yea, By His glory!  He is the Truth.  There is none other
God but Him.  All have arisen at His bidding.5

‘Abdu’l-Baha , A Traveller’s Narrative, p. 4.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 27.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 156.
Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 173.
Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 141.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Salmán the Persian
At the time of Muh ammad, Zoroastrians were awaiting another prophet.  One
of those believers was Ru z-bih Khushnu da n (later known as Salma n the Persian)
who is mentioned twice in the Kita b-i-I qa n.  According to Marzieh Gail:  “There
was a man named Salma n the Persian and he had spent many years of his life
traveling in search of a Prophet.  He was born in a Persian village and as a boy
had tended the sacred fire [in a Zoroastrian temple].”1
Salma n travelled to Damascus and became a Christian.  For years he was
searching for a new prophet.  He served under four wise men who were
announcing the coming of another Messenger of God.  The last wise man once
told him:  “O Ru z-bih! when thou hast taken up my body and buried it, go to H ija z
for there the Day-star of Muh ammad will arise.  Happy art thou, for thou shalt
behold His face!”2  According to Marzieh Gail:
In those days it was not safe to travel, because if you were caught they sold
you into slavery.  When Salmán was going toward Arabia they caught him,
and sold him to a Jew of Medina.  Salmán worked in the palm groves; it was
his job to take care of the camel that turned the wheel which brought water
up from the sub-soil for distribution into irrigation trenches.  One day
Salmán was up at the top of a palm tree, and he heard his master speaking
down below.  His master was saying that a man had arisen in Mecca who
was calling himself a Prophet.  Salmán began to tremble all over; he
became so agitated that he almost fell on his master’s head.  He slid down
the tree, and his owner struck him, saying, “What is it to you?”3
Finally, Salma n became the first Persian soul to recognize Muh ammad as the
new Messenger of God and became His dedicated courier.
The Magi of Bethlehem
The priests of the Zoroastrian religion are called Magi (Magus in the singular),
and are known to have been experts in astronomy.  The Magi are mentioned in
the Gospel of Matthew as persons who came from the Orient (Persia) looking for
the Promised Messenger of God and following the star of Bethlehem (Matthew
2:1–2).  They are also alluded to as believers in the Qur’a n (22:17) along with
Christians and Jews.
Baha ’u’lla h narrates the story of the Zoroastrian Magus in The Kitáb-i-Íqán:
In like manner, when the hour of the Revelation of Jesus drew nigh, a few of
the Magi, aware that the star of Jesus had appeared in heaven, sought and
followed it, till they came unto the city which was the seat of the Kingdom of
Herod.  The sway of his sovereignty in those days embraced the whole of that
land.

Marzieh Gail, Six Lessons on Islám, p. 5.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 65.
Marzieh Gail, Six Lessons on Islám, p. 5.

3.  Divine annunciations

These Magi said:  “Where is He that is born King of the Jews? for we have seen
His star in the east and are come to worship Him!”  When they had searched,
they found out that in Bethlehem, in the land of Judea, the Child had been
born.  This was the sign that was manifested in the visible heaven.  As to the
sign in the invisible heaven—the heaven of divine knowledge and
understanding—it was Yaḥyá [John the Baptist], son of Zachariah, who gave
unto the people the tidings of the Manifestation of Jesus.  Even as He hath
revealed:  “God announceth Yaḥyá [John the Baptist], to thee, who shall bear
witness unto the Word from God, and a great one and chaste.”  By the term
“Word” is meant Jesus, Whose coming Yaḥyá [John the Baptist], foretold.
Moreover, in the heavenly Scriptures it is written:  “John the Baptist was
preaching in the wilderness of Judea, and saying, Repent ye:  for the Kingdom
of heaven is at hand.”1
The Báb and John the Baptist
The Ba b came to announce the coming of Baha ’u’lla h.  This is similar in some
ways to the role of John the Baptist in relation to Jesus.  Although John the Baptist
is not to be considered as an independent Manifestation of God, Baha ’u’lla h
identified Him in the Kita b-i-Badí ‘ as a prophet and a messenger.2
Notwithstanding that John the Baptist does not share the same prophetic rank as
the Ba b, the comparison is meaningful.  John the Baptist said:  “He is the one who
comes after me, the straps of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie” (John 1:27).
The Ba b similarly said of Baha ’u’lla h, “Were He to appear this very moment, I
would be the first to adore Him, and the first to bow down before Him.”3
About John, Jesus said:  “Truly I tell you, among those born of women there
has not risen anyone greater than John the Baptist” and Baha ’u’lla h said that the
rank of the Ba b “excelleth that of all the Prophets and His Revelation transcendeth
the comprehension and understanding of all their chosen ones.”4
John the Baptist had left a number of commandments, and taught his disciples
to be baptized (Luke 3:3), to repent (Luke 3:8), to pray (Luke 11:1), to be just (Luke
3:13), not to commit violence (Luke 3:14) and to be fair (Luke 3:14).  The Ba b, by
comparison, left a collection of precepts and ordinances contained in a vast
number of revealed works.
Tragically, both the Ba b and John the Baptist were martyred in their thirties.
Both were executed by temporal powers leaving enthusiastic disciples waiting
for the imminent coming of the Promised One.  John was martyred by the order
of Herod Antipas—the Tetrarch and ruler of Galilee—while the Ba b suffered a
similar fate by the order of the Amí r Kabí r (Kha n-i-Fara ha ní  Taqí ), the chief
minister to the Sha h of Iran.  Like the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h, John and Jesus were

Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, pp. 63–64.
Research Department Memorandum to the Universal House of Justice, 25 August 1989.
https://bahai-library.com/uhj_john_baptist_interpretation
Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 171.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 125–12.

Dispensation of the Ba b
contemporary—Jesus being baptised by John (Matthew 11:11).  Jesus died after
John and, similarly, Baha ’u’lla h survived the Ba b.  The respective practices and
mission of John the Baptist and Jesus, though related, were different.  Likewise
there were differences in the practices and Mission of the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h.
The parallels between John the Baptist and the Ba b are remarkable.1  Shoghi
Effendi commented that the Ba b was “the ‘Return of John the Baptist’ expected
by the Christians.”2  Indeed, Baha ’u’lla h had stated:
By God!  The relationship between the Revelation of the Primal Point (the
Báb) and this most wondrous, this most glorious Revelation is identical to
that of the Revelation of John, son of Zechariah (John the Baptist,) and the
Spirit of God (Jesus) ….  Furthermore, just as John the Baptist came invested
with laws and ordinances, and just as the advent of Jesus Christ occurred
during His time, the Primal Point [Báb]—may My life be a sacrifice unto
Him—declared thus, after making a universal covenant and heralding the
Revelation to come:  “Verily, the end is nigh, and ye are fast asleep.”3
And in the Tablet to the Pope, Baha ’u’lla h draws attention to the parallels
between the preaching, in their annunciatory roles, of John the Baptist and the
Ba b:
O followers of the Son!  We have once again sent John unto you, and He, verily,
hath cried out in the wilderness of the Bayán:  O peoples of the world!
Cleanse your eyes!  The Day whereon ye can behold the Promised One and
attain unto Him hath drawn nigh!  O followers of the Gospel!  Prepare the
way!  The Day of the advent of the Glorious Lord is at hand!  Make ready to
enter the Kingdom.  Thus hath it been ordained by God, He Who causeth the
dawn to break.4
The Báb and Jesus
Even more striking are the correlations between the lives of Jesus and the Ba b.
This is not a coincidence but a providential association as highlighted by Shoghi
Effendi, who, in speaking of the life of the Ba b, states, “… we cannot fail to discern
a remarkable similarity to the distinguishing features of the career of Jesus
Christ.”5
Although the Ba b was a Siyyid (i.e., a descendant of the Prophet Muh ammad
through Fa t ima) and Jesus was of the priestly line of Levites through Mary,
neither belonged to an aristocratic or scholarly class.  Jesus was a carpenter and
the Ba b was a merchant.

See Jack McLean, John the Baptist; & Christopher Buck, “The Identity of the S a bi’u n”,
pp. 172–186.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 58.
Baha ’u’lla h, Kitáb-i-Badí‘, p. 79.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Summons of the Lord of Hosts, p. 63.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 56.

3.  Divine annunciations

Both the Ba b and Jesus were born with innate knowledge, already evidenced
in Their childhood to a degree that astonished the erudite.1  Here we will digress
for a moment to remind the reader that Baha ’u’lla h, too, was born with innate
knowledge, the signs of which were also visible in His childhood.  There is another
interesting parallel, this time between Jesus and Baha ’u’lla h, in Their recognition
of Their respective heralds.  Jesus was among the first to be baptised by John the
Baptist, and referred to him as “a burning and a shining light” (John 5:35).
Likewise, on receiving a scroll penned by the Ba b, announcing His Revelation,
Baha ’u’lla h “… instantly acclaimed its truth, and arose to champion its cause.”2
Thereafter, Baha ’u’lla h, the Supreme Manifestation of God for this Age, “appeared
in the guise of, and continued to labor as, one of the foremost disciples of the
Ba b.”3
Both the Ba b and Jesus were known for Their forbearance, meekness and
mildness.  Both performed miracles although reluctantly—Jesus saying, “Only an
evil, adulterous generation would demand a miraculous sign” (Matthew 12:38–
40).  Some of His disciples believed after seeing a miracle (Luke 7:11), but others
such as the fishermen—namely, the two pairs of brothers:  Peter and Andrew,
and James and John—followed Him solely based on His Word (Matthew 4:18–22;
see also Mark 2:14).  Likewise, the Ba b warned that “He who recounteth any
miracle, other than the verses, is veiled from any truth,”4 stating further than:
Were any man to be adorned with all spiritual virtues in utmost contentment
in all the worlds, and yet assert in this Day that his heart is not utterly
satisfied with the revelation of verses in the absence of witnessing miracles,
then all his acquiescence would be brought to naught in the Book of God, and
no other mode of resignation would be of any profit to him.5
Nonetheless, according to the chronicles, the Ba b was involved in some
supranatural events.  He miraculously healed people6 near to death,7 cured a
married couple of infertility,8 appeared simultaneously in two places,9 tamed
nature,10 read people’s minds,11 was recognized in visions,12 augmented food for

Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 75.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 67.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 128.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 370.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 307.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 236.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 196–197.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 208–209.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 246–247.
10 Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 309.
11 Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 174–175.
12 Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 303–304, 246–247, & 305.

Dispensation of the Ba b
sharing,1 experienced a form of transfiguration2 and foresaw future events3 even
as a child.4  The Ba b also triumphed over death as John Esslemont wrote:
On the 9 July 1850, the Báb Himself, Who was then in His thirty-first year,
fell a victim to the fanatical fury of His persecutors.  With a devoted young
follower named ‘Aqá Muḥammad ‘Alí  [Mírzá Muḥammad-‘Alí-i-Zunúzí],
who had passionately begged to be allowed to share His martyrdom, He
was led to the scaffold in the old barrack square of Tabrí z.  About two
hours before noon the two were suspended by ropes under their armpits
in such a way that the head of Muḥammad ‘Alí  [Mírzá Muḥammad-‘Alí-i-
Zunúzí] rested against the breast of his beloved Master.  A regiment of
Armenian soldiers was drawn up and received the order to fire.  Promptly
the volleys rang out, but when the smoke cleared, it was found that the Báb
and His companion were still alive.  The bullets had but severed the ropes
by which they were suspended, so that they dropped to the ground unhurt.
The Báb proceeded to a room nearby, where He was found talking to one
of His friends.  About noon they were again suspended.  The Armenians,
who considered the result of their volleys a miracle, were unwilling to fire
again, so another regiment of soldiers had been brought on the scene, who
fired when ordered.  This time the volleys took effect.5
“The purity of their own lives,” adds William Sears about the Ba b and Jesus,
“shamed the people among whom they taught.”6  They both condemned the status
quo and openly challenged the religious establishment attracting opposition and
persecution.
The advent of Jesus and the Ba b was also foretold by oriental sages.  John the
Baptist foretold the coming of Jesus.  In the case of the Ba b, Shaykh Ah mad-i-
Ah sa ’í  (1753–1826) and Siyyid Ka z im (1793–1843) foretold His advent.  Shaykh
Ah mad-i-Ah sa ’í  had stated that “Ere long shall ye behold the countenance of your
Lord resplendent as the moon in its full glory…”, and “One of the most mighty
signs that shall signalise the advent of the promised Hour is this:  ‘A woman shall
give birth to One who shall be her Lord.’”7  Siyyid Ka z im, his successor, went even
further assuring that the Promise One was already alive, living among the
population and would soon manifest Himself.  In the West, the Adventist William
Miller (1782–1849) had predicted 1844 as the year of the Second Coming of Jesus
Christ.8

Mí rza  H abí bu’lla h Afna n, The Genesis of the Bábí-Bahá’í Faiths, p. 36.
Mí rza  H abí bu’lla h Afna n, The Genesis of the Bábí-Bahá’í Faiths, p. 21.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 213.
Mí rza  H abí bu’lla h Afna n, The Genesis of the Bábí-Bahá’í Faiths, p. 6.
John Esslemont, Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, pp. 17–18.
William Sears, Thief in the Night, p. 87.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 12.
Carolyn Sparey Fox, Seeking a State of Heaven, p. 12.

3.  Divine annunciations

The Ba b and Jesus were both young at the beginning of their ministries.  The
Ba b began His ministry at the age of twenty-four years while Jesus was in His
thirtieth year.  Both ministries were of short duration:  six years for the Ba b and
three for Jesus.  Jesus had twelve main disciples while the Ba b appointed the
eighteen “Letters of the Living,”1 and many from among both groups were
martyred.  The first apostle of Jesus, Peter, was called the “rock” while the first
disciple of the Ba b, Mulla  H usayn, was called “the gate of the Gate”.  Mary
Magdalene and T a hirih became the prominent women within their respective
religious dispensations, encouraging their fellow believers to arise and
promulgate the teachings.
While the Ba b exhorted His disciples to “Scatter throughout the length and
breadth of this land, and, with steadfast feet and sanctified hearts prepare the way
for His [Baha ’u’lla h] coming”,2 Jesus summoned His disciples to “Go into all the
world and proclaim the gospel to the whole creation” (Mark 6:15).  The Ba b wrote
“… I give you to drink , by the leave of God, the sovereign Truth, of the crystal-pure
waters of His Revelation which are gushing out from the incorruptible Fountain
situated upon the Holy Mount”,3 while Jesus said, “Indeed, the water I give them
will become in them a spring of water welling up to eternal life” (John 4:14).
Likewise, the Ba b and Jesus said, respectively, “I am the Gate of God …”4 and “I am
the Gate …” (John 10:9).
Both Prophets were publicly martyred on charges of heresy after farcical
trials where they were pressed by religious and secular authorities to renounce
their faith in exchange for freedom.  During their interrogations similar questions
were asked.  The Ba b was asked, “what do you teach and what do you intend?”5
and Jesus was asked,  “Are you the king of the Jews?” (Matthew 27:11).  The Ba b6
and Jesus (Matthew 20:17–19) both prophesied their own martyrdoms.
While Jesus was trialled under orders of Pontius Pilate, the Roman governor
of the province of Judaea, the Ba b was prosecuted at the instigation of the prime
minister, in both cases the verdict being supported by a synod of divines.
Similarly, They suffered interrogation for an extended period, and were publicly
paraded under the gaze of hostile crowds.  Both Messengers passed from this
world just prior to a holy day commemoration, Jesus during the Passover Day of
Preparation, on the eve of the Sabbath; and the Ba b just before Ramad a n (the
Islamic fasting month).  Comparably, both were raised off the ground during their
execution:  Jesus was painfully nailed to a cross, and the Ba b was suspended with
ropes hanging from a nail.  In both cases, the martyrdoms were treated as a public

The “Letters of the Living” were the first 18 believers in the Ba b.  See Dawn-Breakers,
pp. 80–82.
The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 47.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 50.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 50.
H useyn Hamada ní , The Táríkh-i-Jadíd, p. 294.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 59.

Dispensation of the Ba b
spectacle.  The remains of the Ba b were paraded through the streets as a further
degradation.
At noon, a three-hour period of darkness accompanied the agony of Jesus as
He hung dying on the cross.  Likewise, the Ba b died at noon at which time a deep
darkness descended on the land.  Prior to Their deaths both pronounced similar
statements.  Jesus exclaimed:  “Forgive them, Father, for they know not what they
do” (Luke 23:34) and the Ba b declared:
Had you believed in Me, O wayward generation, every one of you would have
followed the example of this youth,1 who stood in rank above most of you,
and willingly would have sacrificed himself in My path.  The day will come
when you will have recognised Me; that day I shall have ceased to be with
you.2
At the time of Jesus’ last breath “surrounded darkness came over the whole
land until three, because the sun’s light failed” (Luke 23:44) while at the …
very moment the shots were fired [at the Báb], a gale of exceptional
severity arose and swept over the whole city.  A whirlwind of dust of
incredible density obscured the light of the sun and blinded the eyes of the
people.  The entire city remained enveloped in that darkness from noon
till night.”3
While the body of Jesus was placed in a sealed tomb, the sacred remains of the
Ba b were flung into the city moat, and, in both cases the remains were guarded.
When Their disappearance was discovered, the guards made wild claims to
excuse their apparent dereliction of duty.  In point of fact, the followers of the Ba b
had secretly recovered His remains, and they were kept safe for six decades until
they could finally be laid to rest.  Jesus and the Ba b and were both buried in the
Holy Land on Mount Zion and on Mount Carmel respectively—that is, lineally,
within a hundred kilometres of each other.

This chapter reviewed the relationship between John the Baptist and Jesus,
and how this was echoed in the relationship between the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h.
John the Baptist had been the forerunner of Jesus, as likewise the Ba b was the
herald of Baha ’u’lla h.  We also reflected upon the great congruence in the lives of
Jesus and the Ba b, and how both had sacrificed their lifeblood in the name of God
and His religion.  Although two millennia separate the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h from
John the Baptist and Jesus, the lives of these four heavenly personages parallel
each other in so many aspects and circumstances that we cannot but wonder
upon the degree to which the imprint of God was designed in advance.  Thus,
Providence displays a divine and eternal pattern of operation, unique and
mysterious, yet coherent and filled with striking resemblances.

Reference to Aní s (“Close Companion”), the youth (Mí rza  Muh ammad-‘Alí -i-Zunu zí )
who had entreated the Ba b that he be executed together with Him.
The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 514.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 514.



The Báb as a Manifestation of God
The Revelation of the Ba b was a significant event in the religious history of
Persia and of humankind because of His teachings and His own history.  A. L. M.
Nicolas, the aforementioned Iranian-based French diplomat, once wrote on the
power and reach of the teachings of the Ba b especially in reference to Dala ’il-i-
Sab‘ih, The Seven Proofs:
My reflections on the strange book [The Seven Proofs by the Báb] that I had
translated, filled me with a kind of intoxication and I became, little by little,
profoundly and uniquely a Bábí.  The more I immersed myself in these
reflections, the more I admired the greatness of the genius of him who,
born in Shíráz, had dreamt of uplifting the Muslim world ….1
An addition, Nicolas (1864–1937), wrote that the life of the Ba b, “... is one of the
most magnificent examples of courage which it has been the privilege of mankind
to behold, and it is also an admirable proof of the love which our hero felt for his
fellow countrymen.2  The Orientalist Arminius Va mbe ry (1832–1913) stated that
the Ba b “has expressed doctrines worthy of the greatest thinkers”.3  The Comte
de Gobineau (1816—1882) wrote that the expositions of the Ba b opened to people
“unlimited horizons, varied, colored, mysterious, with shadows broken here and
there by patches of blinding light which transported those imaginative people of
Persia into a state of ecstasy.4
Within a broader discussion on the nature of the Revelation of the Ba b, this
chapter examines some events associated with His life and with the substance of
His Writings.
The following are the main themes of this chapter:
•
The Ba b as a Person
•
First intimations of the station of the Ba b
•
The nature of the Revelation of the Ba b
•
The spiritual substance of the Ba b in mystical terms
The Báb as a Person
What do we know about the Person of the Ba b from contemporary observers?
The Ba b once commented on His life before His declaration in May 1844:
“Likewise behold the Point of the Bayán.  His behavior prior to the declaration of

A. L. M. Nicolas in Momen, The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions 1844–1944, p. 37.
Emily McBride Pe rigord, Translation of French Foot-Notes, pp. 60–61.
William Sears, Thief in the Night, p. 97.
Emily McBride Pe rigord, Translation of French Foot-Notes, p. 10.

Dispensation of the Ba b
His mission is clearly evident unto those who knew Him.”1  All the testimonies
below show how deeply the Ba b touched people’s personal lives.

Siyyid Mí rza  ‘Alí  Muh ammad (the Ba b) was born on 20 October 1819.  ‘Abdu’l-
Baha  in “A Traveller’s Narrative” affirms that the Ba b’s father passed away a few
years after His birth.2  The Child was then raised by His maternal uncle, H a jí
Mí rza  Siyyid ‘Alí .  From a tender age, the Ba b showed signs of extraordinary
capacity and virtue.3  He was sent for instruction to the school of Shaykh ‘A bid
who later related an incident showing the natural aptitude of the Ba b:
“I asked the Báb to recite the opening words of the Qur’án:  ‘Bismi’lláhi’r-
Raḥmáni’r-Raḥím.”  He hesitated, pleading that unless He were told what
these words signified, He would in no wise attempt to pronounce them.  I
pretended not to know their meaning.  “I know what these words signify,”
observed my pupil; “by your leave, I will explain them.”  He spoke with
such knowledge and fluency that I was struck with amazement.  He
expounded the meaning of “Alláh,” of “Raḥmán,” and “Raḥím,” in terms
such as I had neither read nor heard.  The sweetness of His utterance still
lingers in my memory.  I felt impelled to take Him back to His uncle and to
deliver into his hands the Trust he had committed to my care.  I
determined to tell him how unworthy I felt to teach so remarkable a child.
I found His uncle alone in his office.  “I have brought Him back to you,” I
said, “and commit Him to your vigilant protection.  He is not to be treated
as a mere child, for in Him I can already discern evidences of that
mysterious power which the Revelation of the Ṣáḥibu’z-Zamán4 alone can
reveal.  It is incumbent upon you to surround Him with your most loving
care.  Keep Him in your house, for He, verily, stands in no need of teachers
such as I.”5
After He reached the age of fifteen years, the Ba b engaged in business in the
city of Bu shihr under His uncle’s tutelage and, later, independently.  Several
witnesses reported encountering the Ba b in His youth in Bu shihr.  They
commented upon His “good nature, his equanimity, his dignified bearing, his
piety, his virtue, his work ethic, his generosity, his contentment, and his insight”6
as well as “His downcast eyes, his extreme courtesy, and the serene expression of
his face ….”7  He was also described as “… a handsome man with a thin beard,
dressed in clean clothes, wearing a green shawl and a black turban.”8

The Ba b, Selections, p. 96.
2  ‘Abdu’l-Baha , A Traveller’s Narrative, p. 4.
Stephen Lambden, “An Episode in the Childhood of Sayyid Alí  Muh ammad”.
Ṣáḥibu’z-Zamán (“Lord of the Age”), the Promised One of Islam.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 75.
Fereydun Vahman, “The Ba b”, p. 11.
Fereydun Vahman, “The Ba b”, p. 17.
Abbas Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal, p. 133.

4.  The Ba b as Manifestation of God

At one point, the Ba b left His trade to travel to the Islamic shrines in Iraq for
spiritual contemplation and to dedicate Himself to the study of religious texts.  An
eyewitness who met the Ba b at the holy shrines in Karbila , where He spent one
year engaged in pilgrimage and pious reflection, observed:
On a certain day, I entered the Shrine of the Imám Ḥusayn, intending to
make pilgrimage there, when I beheld a youth in a kind of spiritual trance.
He was immersed in a silent state of sanctification, and tears were
streaming down his face.  Without willing it, I began to go towards him—
but as I did not wish to disturb him, I instead seated myself in a corner to
wait until he had concluded his pilgrimage.  The more attention I paid to
him, the more fascinated I grew with his expressions of modesty and
shame.  I witnessed from him such things as I cannot possibly describe ….
So courteous was his demeanor, so cheerful his face as he spoke these
words that I could not help but be totally captivated by him.1
An account from those times describes the Ba b as follows:
Even before departure from the holy land [the ‘Atábat], where devotion
attracts Muslims from all over Iran, everybody talked about him as an
extraordinary young man.  People thought of him as possessing a mystical
consciousness.  When it came to his peculiarity and his incomprehensible
utterances, they attributed them to his profound wisdom.  It was especially
through the Shírází pilgrims, the ordinary people who returned from
Karbilá, that his fame spread in his homeland.2
Mulla  H usayn, the first Ba bí , remembered his first encounter during which the
Ba b “overwhelmed [him] with expressions of affection and loving-kindness.”
Mulla  H usayn was “profoundly impressed by the gentle yet compelling manner
in which that strange Youth spoke to [him]”, and was enthralled by “His gait, the
charm of His voice, the dignity of His bearing.”3  Mulla  H usayn recalled the
occasion of this meeting at the House of the Ba b:
Overwhelmed with His acts of extreme kindness, I arose to depart.  “The
time for evening prayer is approaching,” I ventured to observe.  “I have
promised my friends to join them at that hour in the Masjid-i-Ílkhání.”
With extreme courtesy and calm He replied:  “You must surely have made
the hour of your return conditional upon the will and pleasure of God.  It
seems that His will has decreed otherwise.  You need have no fear of having
broken your pledge.”  His dignity and self-assurance silenced me.4

Fereydun Vahman, “The Ba b”, p. 19.
Abbas Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal, p. 148.  al-‘Ataba t al-‘A lí ya t (“the Supreme
Shrines”; ‘atabát is “steps” or “thresholds”) refers to the Shí ‘a holy shrines in the Iraqi
cities of Karbala ’, Najaf, Ka z imayn and Sa marra .  The term is also used for the Shrines
of the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 69–70.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 55–56.

Dispensation of the Ba b
In a beautiful supplication to God, the Ba b offers the following lines describing
His tumultuous life after the Declaration of His Mission in May 1844.  As is
known, the life of the Ba b ended with His martyrdom in 1850 in the city of Tabrí z
when He was still thirty years old.
… at the age of twenty-five I proceeded to thy sacred House [Mecca],1 and by
the time I returned to the place where I was born, a year had elapsed.  There
I tarried patiently in the path of Thy love and beheld the evidences of Thy
manifold bounties and of Thy loving-kindness until Thou didst ordain for Me
to set out in Thy direction and to migrate to Thy presence.  Thus I departed
therefrom by Thy leave, spending six months in the land of Ṣád [Iṣfahán]2
and seven months in the First Mountain [Máh-Kú],3 where Thou didst rain
down upon Me that which beseemeth the glory of Thy heavenly blessings and
befitteth the sublimity of Thy gracious gifts and favors.  Now, in My thirtieth
year, Thou beholdest Me, O My God, in this Grievous Mountain [Chihríq]4
where I have dwelt for one whole year.5
Another Ba bí , H a jí  Nas í r, also related his experiences of the Ba b:
When His Holiness the Most Great Remembrance [the Ba b] was being
conveyed to Ádharbayján, I left Qazvin after Him in order to attain His
blessed presence.  At every station I reached, the governmental soldiers
had taken that Wronged One to the next station.  Therefore, I increased the
pace of my search and eagerly reached my goal.  I gave some gratuity to
the soldiers who allowed me to enter the room where His Holiness was
staying.
I greeted Him and expressed my respect.  He granted me permission to sit.
I sat.  He was drinking tea, and because of the consideration of wisdom and
the soldiers’ attitude, He was cautious and did not utter a word.  I was lost
in the wonder of His beauty and His majestic splendor.
I was gazing at His half-finished cup of tea and entertained the wish to have
the bounty of drinking from that cup.  At that instant, He motioned me to
drink from the same cup.  He also gestured to me to return to Qazvin.
Therefore, with a heart filled with sadness and a mind agitated by the
deeds of the wrong-doers, I returned to Qazvin.6
Dr William Cormick was an Irish doctor attached to the prince court who was
called to attend the Ba b in the prison of Tabrí z in 1848.  This is his narration:
You ask me for some particulars of my interview with the founder of the
sect known as Bábís.

October 1844–July 1845.
September 1846–April 1847.
July 1847–10 April 1848.
April 1848–June 1850.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 180–181.
Ahang Rabbani, Witness to Shaykh Ṭabarsí.

4.  The Ba b as Manifestation of God

Nothing of any importance transpired in this interview, as the Báb was
aware of my having been sent with two other Persian doctors to see
whether he was of sane mind or merely a madman, to decide the question
whether to put him to death or not.  With this knowledge he was loth to
answer any questions put to him.  To all enquiries he merely regarded us
with a mild look, chanting in a low melodious voice some hymns, I suppose.
Two other Sayyids,1 his intimate friends, were also present, who
subsequently were put to death with him, besides a couple of government
officials.  He only once deigned to answer me, on my saying that I was not
a Musulmán2 and was willing to know something about his religion, as I
might perhaps be inclined to adopt it.  He regarded me very intently on my
saying this, and replied that he had no doubt of all Europeans coming over
to his religion.  Our report to the Sháh at that time was of a nature to spare
his life.  He was put to death some time after by the order of the Amír-i-
Niẓám Mírzá Taqí Khán.  On our report he merely got the bastinado, in
which operation a farrásh, whether intentionally or not, struck him across
the face with the stick destined for his feet, which produced a great wound
and swelling of the face.  On being asked whether a Persian surgeon should
be brought to treat him, he expressed a desire that I should be sent for, and
I accordingly treated him for a few days, but in the interviews consequent
on this I could never get him to have a confidential chat with me, as some
Government people were always present, he being a prisoner.
He was very thankful for my attentions to him.  He was a very mild and
delicate-looking man, rather small in stature and very fair for a Persian,
with a melodious soft voice, which struck me much.  Being a Sayyid, he was
dressed in the habits of that sect, as were also his two companions.  In fact
his whole look and deportment went far to dispose one in his favour.  Of
his doctrine I heard nothing from his own lips, although the idea was that
there existed in his religion a certain approach to Christianity.  He was seen
by some Armenian carpenters, who were sent to make some repairs in his
prison, reading the Bible, and he took no pains to conceal it, but on the
contrary told them of it.  Most assuredly the Musulmán fanaticism does not
exist in his religion, as applied to Christians, nor is there that restraint of
females that now exists.3
A leading religious dignitary related the following account of his meeting with
the Ba b during His sojourn (September 1846–March 1847) in the city of Is faha n:
I attained the presence of that Great One at the house of the Imám Jum‘ih
and there beheld a youth who[se] face was most luminous.  I presented
Him with twelve questions; He answered most of them clearly and
eloquently of the others He remained silent.  The power and majesty with

Sayyids (or siyyids) are descendants of the Prophet Muh ammad.
Musulmán is a Persian form of Muslim.
E. G. Browne, Materials for the Study of the Bábí Religion, pp. 260–262.

Dispensation of the Ba b
which He spoke confounded me; I am convinced He is the promised Qa ’im
and I am fed up and disgusted with all the accusations and sneers with
which His followers are afflicted.1
Ah mad, the recipient of the celebrated Tablet of Aḥmad from Baha ’u’lla h,
narrated:
His beautiful face and His powerful Words and presence sufficed all things.
But when they served tea and a cup was offered to the Ba b, He immediately
took it, called the servant of the same Mulla  and very graciously gave it to
him.2
The Ba b also wrote:  “This is a youth of fair-complexion, black-eyed, with fine
eyebrows, beautiful arms and shoulders whose dignity is like that of the prophets of
the old.”3
In brief, all the above reports, either from native Persians or from foreigners,
whether believers or not, depict the mild and dignified person of the Ba b.
First intimations of the station of the Báb
In some of His writings, the Ba b affirms that the first intimations of His
divine station took place before adulthood:
Verily God hath inspired Thee with divine verses and wisdom while still a
child and hath graciously deigned to bestow His favor upon the peoples of
the world through the influence of Thy Most Great Name, for indeed men
have not the least knowledge of the Book.4
Verily, God hath taught Thee the Book and the Wisdom (Ḥikmah) in Thy
childhood, and shown favor unto the people of the earth by virtue of Thy Most
Great Name.5
In another of His Writings, He maps out the timeline of His life.
Thou art aware, O My God, that since the day Thou didst call Me into being
out of the water of Thy love till I reached fifteen years of age I lived in the
land which witnessed My birth [Shíráz].  Then Thou didst enable Me to go to
the seaport [Búshihr] where for five years I was engaged in trading with the
goodly gifts of Thy realm and was occupied in that with which Thou hast
favored Me through the wondrous essence of Thy loving-kindness.  I
proceeded therefrom to the Holy Land [Karbilá] where I sojourned for one
year.  Then I returned to the place of My birth.  There I experienced the
revelation of Thy sublime bestowals and the evidences of Thy boundless

Cited in Houri Fala hi-Skuce, A Radiant Gem, p.172.
Naysan and Zohre Faizi, Penned by A. Q. Faizi, p. 52.
Mohammadhosseini, “The Commentary on the Sura of Joseph”, p. 9.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 64.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 144.

4.  The Ba b as Manifestation of God

grace.  I yield Thee praise for all Thy goodly gifts and I render Thee
thanksgiving for all Thy bounties.1
In 1843 a significant event occurred in the life of the Ba b—He received His first
divine epiphany:
God beareth Me witness, I was not a man of learning, for I was trained as a
merchant.  In the year sixty [CE 1843–1844] God graciously infused my soul
with the conclusive evidences and weighty knowledge which characterize
Him Who is the Testimony of God—may peace be upon Him—until finally in
that year I proclaimed God’s hidden Cause and unveiled its well-guarded
Pillar, in such wise that no one could refute it.2
Such an auspicious event could be compared to Jesus Christ’s prophetic
anointment through a dove addressing Him at His baptism by John:  “This is my
beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased” (Matthew 3:17).  The utterances of the
Angel Gabriel to Muh ammad, then illiterate, while in a cave at Mount Hira, are
also reminiscent of such prophetic events:  “Read! in the name of your Lord who
created man from a clinging substance” (Qur’a n 96:1–5).  Similarly, Baha ’u’lla h
received the first intimation of His divine mission while enchained in the Sí ya h-
Cha l (“black pit”) of Tehran, when beheld a celestial Maiden announcing to Him:
“Verily, We shall render Thee victorious by Thyself and by Thy pen ….”3
According to the Ba b:
The spirit of prayer which animates My soul is the direct consequence of a
dream which I had in the year before the declaration of My Mission.  In My
vision I saw the head of the Imám Ḥusayn [Muḥammad’s martyred
grandson] … which was hanging upon a tree.  Drops of blood dripped
profusely from His lacerated throat.  With feelings of unsurpassed delight, I
approached that tree and, stretching forth My hands, gathered a few drops
of that sacred blood, and drank them devoutly.  When I awoke, I felt that the
Spirit of God had permeated and taken possession of My soul.  My heart was
thrilled with the joy of His Divine presence, and the mysteries of His
Revelation were unfolded before My eyes in all their glory.4
As to the date of the first intimation of His prophetic mission, the Ba b
remarked:
In truth, the first day that the spirit descended in the heart of this servant
was the fifteenth of the month of Rabiʻu’l-Avval [4 April 1844].5
On another occasion the Ba b wrote on the same theme:

The Ba b, Selections, pp. 180–181.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 12.
The Ba b in Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By, p. 101.
The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 253.
Fereydun Vahman, “The Ba b”, p. 23.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Remember!  The emanation of all these verses and prayers and all these
unlearned sciences is because of a dream which I once had of the holy head
of the Lord of Martyrs, upon him be peace, detached from his holy body,
together with the heads of other companions.  I drank seven handfuls of his
holy blood with greatest joy, and it is now the blessing of that blood which
illumined my heart with such verses and prayers.1
The nature of the Revelation of the Báb
In His Epistle to Muh ammad Sha h, the Ba b sheds light on the nature of His
revelation:
Naught is seen in Me in the station of My heart save God alone, which is the
manifestation of Lordship from God, My Lord and My Fashioner.Naught is
witnessed in the station of My spirit, the indivisible substantive Intellect …
but Muḥammad, the Apostle of God ….  That which thou observeth in the
station of My soul is naught but all the thirteen Sacred Manifestations …, nor
canst thou perceive in the station of My body aught but the station of the dust
for the realization of the three stations of fire, air, and water ….2
The Revelation of the Ba b can be understood in the light of the two divine
stations conferred on each Manifestation to which we referred earlier.  The first
station of “essential unity” is the position where God speaks directly through the
Manifestation since the Manifestation perfectly reflects the attributes of God, and
the second station, that of “distinction”,3 is where each Manifestation is associated
with a specific revelation.  The Ba b Himself declares in the Baya n:
He is the possessor of two signs, that of God and that of creation, and through
the latter he worshippeth God and boweth in adoration before Him.  In like
manner, all things adore their Beloved through the sign of Creation, though
it hath never reached, nor will it ever reach, beyond its own sign from God,
which is present within it and pointeth unto Him.4
As with the first position, we found that in various instances the Writings of
the Ba b portray the Voice of God in the first person:
He, verily, is the One Who, under all conditions, proclaimeth:  ‘I, in very truth,
am God!’5
I am He that liveth in the Abhá Realm of Glory.6

The Ba b in Abbas Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal, p. 131.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 103.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 176.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 46.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n; cited in Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, pp. 142–143.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 351.

4.  The Ba b as Manifestation of God

Verily, I am God and there is none other God but Me, the Lord of all things.
Verily, all else other than Me is My creation.  Therefore, O My creation, adore
Me alone!1
The Ba b affirms that He was the Voice of God speaking to Moses on Mount
Sinai, because the Primal Will is sempiternal (“eternal and unchanging;
everlasting”) and exists in each Manifestation.2  The Ba b as the “Focal Point of
God’s Primal Will”3 was the spirit that talked to Moses from a fire or burning bush
on Mount Sinai4 (Exodus 3:2–22):  “I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham,
the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.” (Exodus 3:6)  In several paragraphs5 the
Ba b refers to His presence in this supernatural transfiguration scene as the
“Flame of that supernal Light that glowed upon Sinai in the gladsome Spot and lay
concealed in the midst of the Burning Bush.”6
O ye that circle the throne of glory!  Hearken unto My Call which is raised
from the midst of the Burning Bush, “Verily I am God and there is none other
God but Me.  Hence worship Me, and for the sake of Him Who is the Most
Great Remembrance [The Báb], offer ye prayers, purged from the
insinuations of the people, for verily your Lord, the One true God, is none
other than the Sovereign Truth.”7
Indeed We conversed with Moses by the leave of God from the midst of the
Burning Bush in the Sinai and revealed an infinitesimal glimmer of Thy Light
upon the Mystic Mount and its dwellers, whereupon the Mount shook to its
foundations and was crushed into dust ….8
The Ba b also defines His essence as transcending eternity:
He is the First, yet not defined as such, and He is the Last, but not described
as such.  He is the Seen, and not praised as such, and He is Hidden, and not
recognized as such.9
Moreover, given the principle of essential unity among the Manifestations of
God in the light of the Primal Will, the Ba b declares:
Verily I have attained the Day of the First Manifestation and by the bidding
of the Lord and as a token of His grace, I shall attain the Day of the Latter

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 42.
See Stephen Lambden, “The Sinaitic Mysteries”, pp. 65–184.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 105.
See Stephen Lambden, “The Sinaitic Mysteries”, pp. 65–184.
See Stephen Lambden, “The Sinaitic Mysteries”, pp. 65–184.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 74.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 69.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 72.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 270.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Manifestation.  There is no God but Him and at the appointed hour everyone
shall bow down unto Him in adoration.1
Regarding the station of Divine Revelation, the Ba b describes how God
fashioned Him to occupy such an exalted position of Prophethood.  Speaking in
God’s voice He said:
I have fashioned all created things for Thy sake, and I have, by virtue of My
Will, set Thee sovereign Ruler over all mankind.  Moreover, I have decreed
that whoso embraceth My religion shall believe in My unity, and I have linked
this belief with remembrance of Thee, and after Thee the remembrance of
such as Thou hast, by My leave, caused to be the “Letters of the Living”,2 and
of whatever hath been revealed from My religion in the Bayán.  This, indeed,
is what will enable the sincere among My servants to gain admittance into
the celestial Paradise.
Verily, the sun is but a token from My presence so that the true believers
among My servants may discern in its rising the dawning of every
Dispensation.
In truth I have created Thee through Thyself, then at My Own behest I have
fashioned all things through the creative power of Thy Word.  We are All-
Powerful.  I have appointed Thee to be the Beginning and the End, the Seen
and the Hidden.  Verily We are the All-Knowing.
No one hath been or will ever be invested with prophethood other than Thee,
nor hath any sacred Book been or will be revealed unto anyone except Thee.
Such is the decree ordained by Him Who is the All-Encompassing, the Best-
Beloved.3
The Ba b also proclaims Himself as God’s Representative on earth invested
with supreme authority:
Point to Thy truthful breast through the power of truth and exclaim:  I swear
by the One true God, herein lieth the vicegerency of God; I am indeed the One
Who is regarded as the Best Reward and I am indeed He Who is the Most
Excellent Abode.4

The Ba b, Selections, p. 10.
The “Letters of the Living” were the first 18 believers in the Ba b.  See Dawn-Breakers,
pp. 80–82.  In the Persian Baya n, they are referred to as:  “All of these formed the name
of the Living One, for these are the names that are the nearest to God; the others are
guided by their clear and significant actions, for God began the creation of the Bayán
through them, and it is to them that the creation of the Bayán will again return.  They
are the lights which in the past have eternally prostrated themselves and will prostrate
themselves eternally in the future, before the celestial throne.” (Pe rigord, Translation of
French Foot-Notes, pp. 14–15).
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 158–159.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 66.

4.  The Ba b as Manifestation of God

Are ye in doubt concerning the Báb?  Verily He is the One Who holdeth, by
Our leave, the kingdoms of earth and heaven in His grasp, and the Lord is in
truth fully aware of what ye are doing ….1
Author Mangol Bayat stated that the Ba b declared that all created beings and
things belong exclusively to God, for God is the Creator, and thereby the sole
owner of heaven and earth.  Since God, the Ba b argued, created all and everything
for the sake of the Prophet, who is the Manifestation of God, and whose existence
sustains the universe, the Manifestation is thereby the “master of all things”.  As
a divine being, the One who manifests the Will of God ranks higher than all
reigning monarchs, all ‘ulama ’, and above all the wealthy and the mighty.2
At the same time, the Ba b expresses as a human being His feelings of utter
nothingness in relation to God’s designs for Him:
Verily, that which We sprinkled upon thee out of the ocean of Names and
Attributes is due to the sweet melodies of This Bird, Who hath first soared in
the air of the Supreme Cloud of Subtlety and then warbled in the inner depths
of these allusions; thereby it shone forth and was manifest, circled around
and revolved, rose up and stood upright … sighed and bemoaned, cried and
wept, then fell with anguish upon the earth, trembling like unto a fish out of
water, proclaiming the words of His Lord, as permitted by God:  O My God!  I
plead My grief solely unto Thee.  Ennoble My Cause, and fulfill that which
Thou hast promised Me ….3
The weight of the mantle of revelation upon His shoulders is a theme that
very often appears in the Writings of the Ba b:
God had, in truth, proposed Our Mission unto the heavens and the earth and
the mountains, but they refused to bear it and were afraid thereof.  However,
Man, this ‘Alí, Who is none other but the Great Remembrance of God,
undertook to bear it.4
The spiritual substance of the Báb in mystical terms
The Ba b expresses the mystical nature of His own being with these words
addressed to Himself in which He adopts a numinal feminine figure associated
with the Holy Spirit:
O Qurratu’l-‘Ayn!5  Let the Maid of Heaven, the inmate of the Exalted
Paradise, drape Herself in a coarse vesture and put on a veil of the most
beautiful silk.  Then let Her step out of Her mansion, appearing by Herself,
upon the earth, in the beauty of the black-eyed damsel.  Let Her listen to the
sweet praise out of Thy holy breaths upon the Seat of the Throne and in the
celestial spheres, that haply those intoxicated and bewildered amongst the

The Ba b, Selections, p. 73.
Mangol Bayat, Mysticism and dissent, p. 104.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 80.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 70.
Qurratu’l-‘Ayn (“Solace of the Eyes”) is one of the titles of the Ba b.

Dispensation of the Ba b
dwellers on earth may be awakened by Thy Cause, to an extent less than a
single hair from the back of Her head, as ordained by God.  God verily
knoweth all things ….
O People of the earth!  By the righteousness of the One true God, I am the
Maid of Heaven begotten by the Spirit of Bahá, abiding within the Mansion
hewn out of a mass of ruby, tender and vibrant; and in this mighty Paradise
naught have I ever witnessed save that which proclaimeth the Remembrance
of God by extolling the virtues of this Arabian Youth.  Verily there is none
other God but your Lord, the All-Merciful.  Magnify ye, then, His station, for
behold, He is poised in the midmost heart of the All-Highest Paradise as the
embodiment of the [glorification] (tasbíl) of God in the Tabernacle wherein
[exaltation of His unity] (tahlíl) is intoned ….
O Qurratu’l-‘Ayn!  Permit Her to divest Herself of Her coarse robe, put on the
garment She donneth in Her reserved Chamber.  For verily the dwellers of
heaven have wailed out of their yearning for Her hair, arrayed (malfúl)
beneath Her veil.  God is verily merciful unto His believing servants.
Return, O Thou Immortal Maid of Heaven, unto the holy Sanctuary within
Thy Mansion.  Thou wouldst receive Thy reward solely from Me, written
down, verily, by Mine own hand in this Book through a single letter of My
Command that hath been inscribed around the Fire.1

In the Revelation of the Ba b we found a marvellous case of divine emanation
with fresh teachings.  We also reviewed the effect that the Ba b had, before and
during His ministry, upon those who met Him and recognized Him as a unique
Personage with a distinctive light.  Despite being held captive during most of His
prophetic life, the Primal Point attracted the attention of the whole country and
beyond within a relatively brief period of time.
People were attracted to the tolerance and universality of His teachings, and
to the elevated character of His ethical code and exhortations, which revealed
both His full humanity and His divinity.  With a discourse focused on higher and
elevated concepts, couched in a most eloquent style, the Writings of the Ba b
awoke and captivated a nation submerged in lethargy and obscurity.

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, pp. 153–154.



Verses of the Báb
The Revelation of the Ba b offered the gift of salvation to all humanity:  His
verses “are a light unto those who believe in them and a fire of afflictive torment
for those who turn away and reject them.”1  He refers to His writings as “the new
or wondrous verses” (al-áyát al-badí‘a).2
The verses of the Ba b were revealed in a beautiful and melodious chant
characterized by some witnesses as the “gentle intonation of His voice”, “the soft
and gentle murmur of His voice”, and the “magic of His voice”.3
The following themes are covered in this chapter:
•
Verses, signs and miracles
•
The abundance of His Revelation
•
The Writings of the Ba b
Verses, signs and miracles
Undoubtedly, as the bearer of such a weighty undertaking, the Ba b had been
granted a knowledge that only came from God.  Baha ’u’lla h states:
God, verily, hath deigned to bestow upon the Point of the Bayán a hidden and
preserved Knowledge, the like of which God hath not sent down prior to this
Revelation.  More precious is it than any other knowledge in the estimation
of God—glorified be He!  He, verily, hath made it His testimony, even as He
hath made the verses to be His testimony.4
The Ba b was also granted full authority to disseminate His teachings:
Verily God hath granted leave to His Remembrance to say whatsoever He
willeth in whatever manner He pleaseth.  Indeed whatsoever He chooseth is
none other than what is chosen by Us.  The Lord, in truth, witnesseth all
things.5
Regarding the Ba b, His divine verses are the most powerful proof of His
revelation and He condemns the request for miracles.6  According to Mí rza  Abu’l-
Fad l the terms divine verse, sign and miracle can be simultaneously rendered
by the same Arabic word áyah or áyat (plural, áyát).7  Hence, a divine verse can

The Ba b, Selections, p. 163.
Mohammadhosseini, “The Commentary on the Sura of Joseph”, p. 15.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 61, 175, 202.
Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 175.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 72.
See the Ba b, Selections, pp. 119–120.
Mí rza  Abu’l-Fad l, Miracles and Metaphors, pp. 99–198.

Dispensation of the Ba b
also be interpreted as a miracle or sign of God.  For example, in His Will and
Testament, ‘Abdu’l-Baha  designated Shoghi Effendi as the “sign of God
[Áyatu’lláh], the Chosen Branch, [and] the Guardian of the Cause of God.”1
In Islam, the claim to be a revealer of divine verses could be made only by the
Prophet.  “Muslims were very sensitive to any claim to be capable of revealing
divine verses,” wrote Ruhu’llah Mehrabkhani:
No one could claim that verses (núzúl-i-áyát) had been revealed to him
subsequent to the mission of the Prophet of Islám.  They believe that áyát
(verses) came only to the Prophet Muḥammad through the Angel Gabriel.
The Prophet did not himself reveal verses but received them from God via
Gabriel often having to wait months or even years before receiving them
….  The Muslim notion of Divine Revelation is such that the áyát are
considered to be the proof of the prophethood of Muḥammad.2
Moses prophesied:  “I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among
their brothers.  And I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them
all that I commend him” (Deut. 18:18–22).  Jesus stated, “For he whom God has sent
utters the words of God, for he gives the Spirit without measure” (John 3:34).
In this regard, the Ba b wrote:
Verily We made the revelation of verses to be a testimony for Our message
unto you.  Can ye produce a single letter to match these verses?  Bring forth,
then, your proofs, if ye be of those who can discern the one true God.  I
solemnly affirm before God, should all men and spirits combine to compose
the like of one chapter of this Book, they would surely fail, even though they
were to assist one another.3
Whoever seeks to prove the truth of the Point of the Bayán [i.e. the Ba b]
through anything but divine verses has veiled himself from the greatest proof
and the noblest path …4
Moreover, the words of the Ba b must be obeyed without hesitation:
Behold the one who calleth thee unto God.  Should he [the Báb] possess an
incontrovertible testimony from his Lord in such manner that none is able to
produce the like thereof, his cause would then be proven to be true and there
would be no doubt about it.  Obey then his words and ask not why or
wherefore ….  Shouldst thou acknowledge his testimony thou wouldst have
no place to flee to save to obey him, even if he calleth night day, poison sugar,
false true, and knowledge ignorance.5

‘Abdu’l-Baha , The Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 11.
Ruhu’llah Mehrabkhani, “Some Notes on Fundamental Principles”, pp. 22–43, esp. 29–
35.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 43.
Armin Eschraghi, “Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy”, p. 228.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, “Phenomenology of Occultation and Prayer”, p. 212.

5.  Verses of the Ba b

Consequently, the Ba b abolished the formal Islamic emphasis on oral
traditions known as hadiths.  Islamic jurisprudence is formulated partly on the
Qur’a n and partly on the Sunna, i.e., the sayings and actions attributed to
Muh ammad and His first descendants (the Imams) as narrated in the hadiths.
The Ba b asserts:
In the Qur’án nothing other than this proof has been revealed.  Had they all
understood this, it would have been easier for them, rather than to profess
faith in God through matters they narrate themselves and for which there is
no proof in the book of God (Persian Bayán, 6:8).1
Verses revealed by the Manifestations of God are of such mystic calibre that
they cannot be compared with texts written by ordinary human beings:
The evidence set forth by God can never be compared with the evidences
produced by anyone of the peoples and kindreds of the earth; and beyond a
shadow of doubt no evidence is set forth by God save through the One Who is
appointed as His supreme Testimony.  Moreover, the proof of revealed verses
doth, alone and of itself, conclusively demonstrate the utter impotence of all
created things on earth, for this is a proof which hath proceeded from God
and shall endure until the Day of Resurrection.2
Thus, the Ba b dismisses any possibility of any individual or group writing
comparable verses to His own revelation:
Say, O peoples of the earth!  Were ye to assemble together in order to produce
the like of a single letter of my works, ye would never be able to do so, and
verily God is cognizant of all things ….3
Were all the people that dwell on earth to assemble together, they would be
unable to produce a single verse like unto the ones which God hath caused to
stream forth from the tongue of the Point of the Bayán.4
God has ordained the Writings of the Ba b to be “His matchless testimony for all
created things”,5 and “if any living creature were to pause to meditate he would
undoubtedly realize that these verses are not the work of man, but are solely to be
ascribed unto God.”6
The teachings of the Prophets are the most conclusive evidence of their truth.
In the Bible, the disciples of Jesus tell Him:  “Now we can see that you know all
things and that you do not even need to have anyone ask you questions.  This
makes us believe that you came from God” (John 16:30).  In the Baya n, the Ba b

Armin Eschraghi, “Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy”, p. 228.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 109.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 58.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 104–105.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 104.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 105.

Dispensation of the Ba b
cites the Qur’a n to prove that the teachings of a Prophet, rather than miracles, are
themselves a proof of His divine mission:
Concerning the sufficiency of the Book as a proof, God hath revealed:  ‘Is it
not enough for them that We have sent down unto Thee the Book to be
recited to them?  In this verily is a mercy and a warning to those who believe.’
[Qur’án 29:50]  When God hath testified that the Book is a sufficient
testimony, as is affirmed in the text, how can one dispute this truth by saying
that the Book in itself is not a conclusive proof?1
Further, referring to the period of 1,270 years between Muh ammad and the
Ba b when no divine revelation took place, it is written in the Persian Baya n:
Had human beings been able to accomplish this deed surely someone would
have brought forth at least one verse during the period of twelve hundred
and seventy years which hath elapsed since the revelation of the Qur’án until
that of the Bayán.  However, all men have proved themselves impotent and
have utterly failed to do so, although they endeavored, with their vehement
might, to quench the flame of the Word of God.2
According to the Ba b, not only were those who claimed the capacity to
produce similar verses “powerless to bring forth proofs similar”3 to that which God
had revealed through His Manifestations, but “God hath wiped out all those who
have opposed Them from the beginning that hath no beginning until the present
day and hath conclusively demonstrated the Truth through the power of Truth.”4
Divinely revealed verses are divine by nature and therefore acquired human
knowledge cannot match them:
Indeed, were all the inhabitants of heaven and earth and whatever existeth
between them to assemble together, they would utterly fail and be powerless
to produce such a book, even though We made them masters of eloquence
and learning on earth.5
The abundance of His Revelation
When, on 22 May 1844, the Ba b declared His mission for the first time to a
religious student named Mulla  H usayn,6 He was still 24 years old according to His
own assertion.7  His father died when the Ba b was very young and He was raised
by His oldest maternal uncle.  As a child and young adult, the Ba b developed an
expertise in calligraphy, which was a highly valued art for His cultural milieu at
the time.  He also attended classes in Islamic religious themes and Arabic

The Ba b, Selections, p. 82.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 105.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 131.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 132.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 35.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 47–97.
See the Ba b, Selections, p. 109.

5.  Verses of the Ba b

language.  Like many of the children of that generation and social stratum, the
education provided was elementary.  In His words:
I swear on my own soul that I did not read a word of the conventional
sciences, and in the past there were no books of sciences with me whose
words I have memorized, and there is no reason for this divine gift but God’s
generosity and his benevolence.  Today if someone asks me of various
scholarly matters cited in books, I swear to God that I do not know the
answer, and I do not even know the grammar and syntax, and I am proud of
it, since God in the Day of Resurrection will prove to all that I was assisted by
his generosity.1
Despite being “devoid of those sciences wherein all are learned”,2 the Ba b
claims that He
… reciteth verses after such fashion without thought or hesitation, writes a
thousand verses of prayer in the course of five hours without pause of the
pen, and produceth commentaries and learned treatises on such lofty themes
as the true understanding of God and of the oneness of His Being, in a manner
which doctors and philosophers confess surpasseth their power of
understanding, then there is no doubt that all that hath been manifested is
divinely inspired.3
The youthfulness of the Ba b was a constant cause of criticism from His
enemies.  In His words, they believed “How strange then that this twenty-five-year-
old untutored one should be singled out to reveal His verses in so astounding a
manner.”4
‘Abdu’l-Baha  says,
Among the Shí‘ih [Shí‘yún] it is universally acknowledged that He never
studied in any school, nor acquired learning from any teacher.  To this the
people of Shíráz, each and all, bear witness.  Nevertheless, He suddenly
appeared before the people, endowed with consummate knowledge, and
though but a merchant, confounded all the divines of Persia.5
According to what was revealed to Muh ammad, no one could produce a book
comparable to the Qur’a n itself (Qur’a n 11:13, 2:23), hence the Ba b was accused of
heresy.  Yet, even the most complex Islamic theological questions submitted to
the Ba b received a brilliant elucidation, and this without Him having received any
formal religious instruction, and out of pure inspiration.6  When the Sha h of Iran
commissioned Siyyid Yah ya  Da rabí , entitled Vah í d, “the most learned, the most

The Ba b in Abbas Amanat, “The Shaping of the Babi Community”, p. 117.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 109.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 109.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 118.
‘Abdu’l-Baha , Some Answered Questions, p. 30.
Asadu’lla h Fa d il, “The Life of the Ba b”.

Dispensation of the Ba b
eloquent, and the most influential of his subjects” to personally meet the Ba b in
order to investigate the validity of His divine claims, this high-ranking officer
converted to the new Faith with no further hesitation at the third interview.1
Claiming the abundance of His verses as proof of His revelation, the Ba b turned
to the divines of those times who were arrogant because of their knowledge.
“Notwithstanding their life-long diligent study,” He wrote, “what pains do these
divines take when writing a single line in Arabic!  Yet after such efforts the result is
but words which are unworthy of mention.”2
The Ba b described the rapidity with which He revealed verses as “a most
glorious sign within the realm of miracles … a daunting and highly perplexing
matter, recognized by all as being impossible to attain by anyone save the One
Whom God willeth.”3  Further, the Ba b remarks, “the supreme honour is not in the
mere composition of the outward appearance of the words, but in traversing the
kingdom of Names and Attributes in less than the twinkling of an eye.”4
In describing how the Writings of the Ba b were revealed, Mí rza  Abu’l-Fad l
wrote, “Most of them He wrote in their presence, without pause or reflection, not
even writing a rough copy first, as is customary with men of learning and
literature ….  They flowed from Him without any reflection.”5  The flow of
revelation could have been even greater but for the limitations of the
amanuensis:
He reciteth verses at a speed consonant with the capacity of His amanuensis
to set them down.  Thus, it may well be considered that if from the inception
of this Revelation until now He had been left unhindered, how vast then
would have been the volume of writings disseminated from His pen.6
Rumours circulated among the populace that the Ba b “could handle his pen
with amazing speed—to such a degree that when he would take hold of a corner
of the paper he would cover it so rapidly with script that when he got to the end
of the page the first part of it was not yet dry.”7  It is interesting to know that the
Ba b “was so affected by the intensity of revelation that for many days He did not
partake of any food; His only means of subsistence was a little tea.”8
In one passage the Ba b claimed to be able to reveal the equivalent of the
Qur’án in five days and nights.  In another passage He claimed He could achieve
this in two days and two nights.  By comparison, the Qur’a n comprising 6,346
verses was revealed over a period of twenty-three years while the New

Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 171.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 109.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 75.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 75.
Mí rza  Abu’l-Fad l, Bahá’í Proofs, pp. 30–42.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 82.
Usta d Muh ammad-‘Alí y-i-Salma ní .  My Memories of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 4.
Ma‘ani & Ewing, Laws of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 60.

5.  Verses of the Ba b

Testament, which consists of nearly 8,000 verses, was compiled from the works
of nine authors.  The Ba b states that He completed a book of prayers within six
hours and was able to write a thousand verses of prayer within the space of five
hours without halting His pen.  The Ba b claims that when He is able to produce
… commentaries and learned treatises on such lofty themes as the true
understanding of God and of the oneness of His Being, in a manner which
doctors and philosophers confess surpasseth their power of understanding,
then there is no doubt that all that hath been manifested is divinely inspired.1
In the Baya n (1847–1848) it is written that … “He hath, up to the present,
revealed no less than five hundred thousand verses on different subjects …”2 and
that “… no less than a hundred thousand verses similar to these have already been
disseminated among the people, not to mention His epistles, His prayers or His
learned and philosophical treatises.”3  Many of His writings were lost or went into
private hands.  Some others were stolen as Nabí l the historian related:
One day, when the Ba b had dismounted close to a well in order to offer His
morning prayer, a roving Bedouin suddenly appeared on the horizon,
drew near to Him, and, snatching the saddlebag that had been lying on the
ground beside Him, and which contained His writings and papers,
vanished into the unknown desert.  His Ethiopian servant set out to pursue
him, but was prevented by his Master, who, as He was praying, motioned
to him with His hand to give up his pursuit.  “Had I allowed you,” the Ba b
later on affectionately assured him, “you would surely have overtaken and
punished him.  But this was not to be.  The papers and writings which that
bag contained are destined to reach, through the instrumentality of this
Arab, such places as we could never have succeeded in attaining.  Grieve
not, therefore, at his action, for this was decreed by God, the Ordainer, the
Almighty.”4
The Writings of the Báb
Although much of His Writings have been lost over time, it is estimated that
the extant Writings of the Ba b total 5 million words.  Much of this has not been
translated into English.5  Five million words would typically fill 20,000 printed
pages—equivalent to more than six Bibles.  The Appendix lists the best-known
works of the Ba b.
In 2013 the Universal House of Justice stated that “… over 2,000 unique works
[of the Ba b] have been identified.  Most of these Writings have been collected;
however, 74 are known to have been revealed, but the texts are not available.

The Ba b, Selections, p. 109.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 97.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 81–82.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 132.
Steven Phelps, A Partial Inventory, p. 2.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Nearly 1,600 of the collected works have been authenticated.”1  According to
Stephen Phelps, “Over 90% of the works of the Ba b, well over half of the works of
Baha ’u’lla h, and one third of the works of ‘Abdu’l-Baha  are in Arabic; the
remainder are in Persian or a mixture of the two.”2
“The books of the Ba b have not as yet been printed in the original,” Shoghi
Effendi’s secretary wrote on his behalf in 1941.  “Except for the Bayán, the Seven
Proofs [Dala ’il-i-Sab‘ih], and Commentary on the Surih of Joseph [Qayyu mu’l-
Asma ’], we cannot be sure of the authenticity of most of His other works as the
text has been corrupted by the unfaithful.”3  Added to this is the difficulty in
translating the Writings of the Ba b due to the complexity of His written language
in both Persian and Arabic, the vocabulary and the context of the verses,
innovative and challenging grammatical forms, as well as the many abstruse and
cryptic expressions therein.  “The style of the Ba b’s writings is new,” two Arabic
scholars wrote, “and can’t be compared with the standards of style of the people
in the past.”4  In general, the collection, cataloguing, authentication and
translation of the Writings of the Ba b is one of the main lines of the action being
pursued at the Centre for the Study of the Texts, at the Baha ’í  World Centre.
The Revelation of the Ba b is unique in the annals of religious history as
regards His prolific written production.  Here is a Prophet Who wrote most of His
time, perhaps due to his long periods of captivity in Shí ra z, Is faha n, Ma h-Ku , and
Chihrí q.  Quantitatively speaking, as outlined above, the number of verses
revealed by the Ba b far exceed the sum total of what has been attributed to Moses,
Jesus and Muh ammad.  As printing houses were still developing in Iran in the first
half of the nineteenth century, and those establishments were more concerned
with the publication of Islamic texts, the only dissemination possible for the
Writings of the Ba b was through hand-copying of manuscripts from believer to
believer—and this could only be done clandestinely.  Nevertheless, through His
Writings, the Ba b reached the masses of Iran in the shortest period possible, even
during His imprisonment in the mountains.  At one time, the Ba b required the
support of more than one amanuensis to record His inexhaustible flow of
revelation and constantly feed the stream of divine literature.
Time was too short to prepare the people for the advent of Him Whom God
shall make Manifest.  Although much of the Ba b’s revelation was couched in a
highly complex and unique style of Arabic, to reach out to the masses, the Ba b
also wrote in Persian, the indigenous language of Iran.  This was in contrast to the
conventional practice amongst the Muslim elite, whose texts were published only
in Arabic and only for the use of their educated peers.  The Ba b redefined religious

The Universal House of Justice.  Letter 6 June 2013 to an individual believer.  Last
retrieved
September
https://Baha i-library.com/uhj_
numbers_sacred_writings.
Steven Phelps, A Partial Inventory of the Works, p. 2.
Shoghi Effendi, Messages of Shoghi Effendi to the Indian Subcontinent, p. 210.
Behmardi & McCants, “A Stylistic Analysis of the Ba b’s Writings”, p. 114.

5.  Verses of the Ba b

literature by using visual information to represent complex theological concepts
through pentagrams (Hayakils) and circular tables (dawa‘irs).1  Further, the
writing style of the Ba b reached the human heart, and it can be characterized as
conversational and “shaped in the form of a discourse with the amanuensis”, with
the “frequent use of the intimate second person singular [thou].”2  The Ba b also
maintained an active correspondence with a range of enquirers about the new
Faith.  In all of the above mentioned, we can recognize the objective of the Ba b to
democratise religious literature and make it accessible to the broader population
despite the onslaughts of persecution.
The literature of the Ba b is notable for its eloquence, an attribute that the Ba b
Himself highlights in relation to His written revelation:3  “Verily the ordinances of
God concerning all things were formerly set forth in eloquent Arabic.”4  The Ba b
wrote in various styles.  According to the Persian Baya n (6:1), His writings can be
classified into five categories.  The first four types of compositions were written
in Arabic in the form of (a) divine verses; (b) prayers, supplications and
devotions; (c) interpretations and commentaries; and (d) scientific treatises,
rational discourses and scriptural divisions.5  The fifth mode comprises His texts
and writings in the Persian language, which in turn can be categorized according
to the four mentioned modes referred to above.6

The written Revelation of the Ba b constituted the standard of belief for all
mankind during the Dispensation of the Ba b, which started on 23 May 1844 with
His Declaration to Mulla  H usayn, and ended with the public declaration of
Baha ’u’lla h at Rid va n in 1863.
According to the Ba b, the written Book of a Manifestation of God is the “Silent
Book” (Kita b-i-S a mit) while, during His earthly life, the Manifestation of God is
the “Speaking Book” (Kita b-i-Na t iq) or “Living Book”.7  The Ba b describes His
Writings thus:
This is the divinely-inscribed Book.  This is the outspread Tablet.  Say, this
indeed is the Frequented Fane, the sweet-scented Leaf, the Tree of divine
Revelation, the surging Ocean, the Utterance which lay concealed, the Light
above every light. …  Indeed every light is generated by God through the
power of His behest.  He of a truth is the Light in the kingdom of heaven and
earth and whatever is between them.  Through the radiance of His light God

Denis MacEoin, Rituals in Babism and Baha’ism, p. 22.
Amanat, “The Persian Bayan and the Shaping of the Babi Renewal”, p. 343.
Behmardi & McCants, “A Stylistic Analysis of the Ba b’s Writings”, p. 118.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 24.
See Elham Afnan, “A Twofold Mission”.
See Stephen Lambden, “From a Primal Point to an Archetypical Book”.
See the Ba b, Persian Baya n, 2:3; Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne p. 328; and
Baha ’u’lla h The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pp. 67 & 81, and Note 155, p. 231.  There will be more on
this topic in Chapter 15.

Dispensation of the Ba b
imparteth illumination to your hearts and maketh firm your steps, that
perchance ye may yield praise unto Him.
Say, this of a certainty is the Garden of Repose, the loftiest Point of adoration,
the Tree beyond which there is no passing, the blessed Lote-Tree, the Most
Mighty Sign, the most beauteous Countenance and the most comely Face.1

The Ba b, Selections, pp. 154–155.



Qayyúmu’l-Asmá and the Persian Bayán
This chapter discusses two of the most important works of the Ba b, the
Qayyu mu’l-Asma  (“The Self-Subsisting Lord of All Names”) and the Persian
Baya n.
The revelation of the Qayyu mu’l-Asma  began on the night of the Declaration
of the Ba b, and the revelation of the Persian Baya n occurred during the exile of
the Ba b in the Ma h-Ku  fortress (located in the north western Zagros Mountains).
The former was revealed in Arabic whereas the latter was written in Persian.  The
Qayyu mu’l-Asma  is considered to be the Qur’a n of the Ba bí s1 while the Persian
Baya n is regarded as the Mother Book of the Dispensation of the Ba b.2  The
Qayyu mu’l-Asma  was characterized by Baha ’u’lla h as “the first, the greatest, and
mightiest of all books”3 while the Persian Baya n was referred to as “Peerless
among the doctrinal works [of the Ba b] ….”4
Qayyúmu’l-Asmá’
The Qayyu mu’l-Asma  is also called the Commentary on the Surah of Joseph.  It
consists of 111 chapters each of which comprises 42 verses.  The book is a re-
interpretation by the Ba b of the story of Joseph, an important chapter (Su ra 12
Yu suf, 111 verses) of the Qur’a n entitled the “Best of the Stories” (from Qur’a n 12:3)
as well as a narrative from the Bible (Genesis chapters 37–50).
The first of those chapters was revealed on the same night that the Ba b
declared His mission in May 1844 to Mulla  H usayn, the first believer.  The Surah
of Joseph, also known as The Self-Subsisting Lord of All Names, provides a
profound explanation of the symbolic mystical meaning of the story of Joseph.
Joseph, the son of Jacob, was sold by his brothers as a slave but eventually became
Egypt’s highest-ranking officer or magistrate.  Later the brothers met Joseph
while trading in Egypt.  When recognized by him, the brothers were forgiven
rather than punished, and this was followed by Joseph’s reunion with his father,
Jacob.  ‘Abdu’l-Baha  linked the Joseph of the Qayyu mu’l-Asma  to Baha ’u’lla h:
Since in His commentary on the Súrih of Joseph, the Báb—may my life be
offered up for His sake—hath identified Joseph as the Manifest Beauty, the
true Joseph, and hath referred to Him as “our great and omnipotent Master,”
then whenever thou readest it, thou wilt but weep and grieve for the wrongs
suffered by the Blessed Beauty.  This commentary is not currently at hand for
me to send to thee.5

Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 23.
See Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 213.
Baha’u’lla h in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 23.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 24.
‘Abdu’l-Baha , Light of the World, p. 145.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Mulla  H usayn recounted how the Ba b revealed the first chapter to him in a
private meeting on the night of 23 May 1844:
He took up His pen, and with incredible rapidity revealed the entire Súrih
of Mulk, the first chapter of His commentary on the Súrih of Joseph.  The
overpowering effect of the manner in which He wrote was heightened by
the gentle intonation of His voice which accompanied His writing.  Not for
one moment did He interrupt the flow of the verses which streamed from
His pen.  Not once did He pause till the Súrih of Mulk was finished.  I sat
enraptured by the magic of His voice and the sweeping force of His
revelation.1
According to the Ba b, the Qayyu mu’l-Asma  was completed in forty days.  Only
a few hand-written copies of the Qayyu mu’l-Asma  have survived for posterity,
some of which are kept at the Baha ’í  World Centre.2  Regarding its dissemination,
the Ba b remarked:
The Commentary on the Súrih of Joseph had, in the first year of this
Revelation, been widely distributed.  Nevertheless, when the people realized
that fellow supporters were not forthcoming they hesitated to accept it;
while it never occurred to them that the very Qur’án whereunto unnumbered
souls bear fealty today, was revealed in the midmost heart of the Arab world,
yet to outward seeming for no less than seven years no one acknowledged its
truth except the Commander of the Faithful [Imám ‘Alí]3—may the peace of
God rest upon him—who, in response to the conclusive proofs advanced by
God’s supreme Testimony, recognized the Truth and did not fix his eyes on
others.  Thus on the Day of Resurrection God will ask everyone of his
understanding and not of his following in the footsteps of others.4
Shoghi Effendi has described the Qayyu mu’l-Asma  as:
… the celebrated commentary on the súrih of Joseph, entitled the
Qayyúmu’l-Asmá, whose fundamental purpose was to forecast what the
true Joseph (Bahá’u’lláh) would, in a succeeding Dispensation, endure at
the hands of one who was at once His arch-enemy and blood brother.  This
work, comprising above nine thousand three hundred verses, and divided
into one hundred and eleven chapters, each chapter a commentary on one
verse of the above-mentioned súrih, opens with the Báb’s clarion-call and
dire warnings addressed to the “concourse of kings and of the sons of
kings”; forecasts the doom of Muḥammad Sháh; commands his Grand
Vizír,5 Ḥájí Mírzá Áqásí, to abdicate his authority; admonishes the entire
Muslim ecclesiastical order; cautions more specifically the members of the

Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 61.
Todd Lawson, Gnostic apocalypse and Islam, pp. 30–31.
‘Alí  was the cousin and son-in-law of Muh ammad, is considered to be the first believer,
and he was the first Ima m.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 90.
S adr-i-A‘z am or prime minister.

6.  Qayyu mu’l-Asma  and the Persian Baya n

Shí‘a community; extols the virtues, and anticipates the coming, of
Bahá’u’lláh, the “Remnant of God,” the “Most Great Master;” and proclaims,
in unequivocal language, the independence and universality of the Bábí
Revelation, unveils its import, and affirms the inevitable triumph of its
Author.  It, moreover, directs the “people of the West” to “issue forth from
your cities and aid the Cause of God;” warns the peoples of the earth of the
“terrible, the most grievous vengeance of God;” threatens the whole
Islamic world with “the Most Great Fire” were they to turn aside from the
newly-revealed Law; foreshadows the Author’s martyrdom; eulogizes the
high station ordained for the people of Bahá, the “Companions of the
crimson-colored ruby Ark;” prophesies the fading out and utter
obliteration of some of the greatest luminaries in the firmament of the Bábí
Dispensation; and even predicts “afflictive torment,” in both the “Day of
Our Return” and in “the world which is to come,” for the usurpers of the
Imamate, who “waged war against Ḥusayn (Imám Ḥusayn)1 in the Land of
the Euphrates [Iraq].”2
The following are some key extracts from the Writings of the Ba b identifying
the importance of the Qayyu mu’l-Asma  as “a shining light for all mankind.”3  The
Qayyu mu’l-Asma :
•
follows the holy books from all religions:  O concourse of the people
of the Book!  Fear ye God and pride not yourselves in your learning.  Follow
ye the Book which His Remembrance hath revealed in praise of God, the
True One.  He Who is the Eternal Truth beareth me witness, whoso
followeth this Book hath indeed followed all the past Scriptures which
have been sent down from heaven by God, the Sovereign Truth.  Verily,
He is well informed of what ye do ….4
•
is the Remembrance of God:  This book is the Remembrance of God
that, in truth, is revealed unto the Most Great Word for the entire world.5
•
was revealed in a special language:  This Book We have, verily,
revealed in the language of Our Remembrance and it is in truth a
wondrous language.6
•
should be recited frequently:  Recite ye as much as convenient from
this Qur’a n both at morn and at eventide, and chant the verses of this
Book, by the leave of the eternal God, in the sweet accents of this Bird
which warbleth its melody in the vault of heaven.7

Prophet Muh ammad’s grandson who was killed in Karbila  in CE 860.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 23.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 41.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 44.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 141.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 45.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 55–56.

Dispensation of the Ba b
•
should be recited in the month of Ramaḍán:1  O Concourse of Light!
Hearken unto My Call in this Sacred Month:  this verily is “the month of
Ramad a n, in which the Qur’a n was revealed.”…Whoso glorifieth the
Month of God and His Book, which is revealed in very truth to proclaim My
truth and the Mighty Truth, and reciteth during that month a single letter
thereof, shall assuredly receive the blessings of the All-Merciful, His angels,
and those endued with knowledge amongst His servants.2
•
is the Utterance of the Power of God:  This is the Utterance of the
Power of God (Dhikr), that appeareth through the Most Great Word
(Kalimah), this Youth, Whom the faithful call in truth by the name ‘Alí . …
We have verily revealed this Book unto the Most Great Word and
ordained Him, in truth, to be the Midmost Point in the realm of justice.3
•
is divinely inspired:  We have, of a truth, sent down this divinely
inspired Book unto Our Servant. …  Ask ye then Him Who is Our
Remembrance of its interpretation, inasmuch as He, as divinely ordained
and through the grace of God, is invested with the knowledge of its
verses...4

O concourse of light!  By the righteousness of God, We speak not
according to selfish desire, nor hath a single letter of this Book been
revealed save by the leave of God, the Sovereign Truth.  Fear ye God and
entertain no doubts regarding His Cause, for verily, the Mystery of this
Gate is shrouded in the mystic utterances of His Writ and hath been
written beyond the impenetrable veil of concealment by the hand of God,
the Lord of the visible and the invisible.5
•
is free from error:  O people of the city!  Ye have disbelieved your Lord.
If ye are truly faithful to Muh ammad, the Apostle of God and the Seal of
the Prophets, and if ye follow His Book, the Qur’a n, which is free from
error, then here is the like of it—this Book, which We have, in truth and
by the leave of God, sent down unto Our Servant.  If ye fail to believe in
Him, then your faith in Muh ammad and His Book which was revealed in
the past will indeed be treated as false in the estimation of God.  If ye
deny Him, the fact of your having denied Muh ammad and His Book will,
in very truth and with absolute certainty, become evident unto
yourselves.6
•
is Proof for East and West:  O peoples of the earth!  By the righteousness
of God, this Book hath, through the potency of the sovereign Truth,
pervaded the earth and the heaven with the mighty Word of God
concerning Him Who is the supreme Testimony, the Expected Qa ’im, and

Ramad a n is the fasting month in the Islamic world.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 125.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 140.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 44–45.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 57.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 46.

6.  Qayyu mu’l-Asma  and the Persian Baya n

verily God hath knowledge of all things.  This divinely inspired Book hath
firmly established His Proof for all those who are in the East and in the
West, hence beware lest ye utter aught but the truth regarding God, for I
swear by your Lord that this supreme Proof of Mine beareth witness unto
all things ….1
•
Is God’s proof similar to one given to Muḥammad:  This Book which
We have sent down is indeed abounding in blessings and beareth witness
to the Truth, so that the people may realize that the conclusive Proof of
God in favor of His Remembrance is similar to the one wherewith
Muh ammad, the Seal of the Prophets, was invested, and verily great is
the Cause as ordained in the Mother Book.2
•
is the straight Path of God:  O concourse of the faithful!  Incline your
ears to My Voice, proclaimed by this Remembrance of God.  Verily God
hath revealed unto Me that the Path of the Remembrance which is set
forth by Me is, in very truth, the straight Path of God, and that whoever
professeth any religion other than this upright Faith, will, when called to
account on the Day of Judgment, discover that as recorded in the Book
no benefit hath he reaped out of God’s Religion ….3
•
Is an honour upon Persia (Iran):  O people of Persia!  Are ye not
satisfied with this glorious honor which the supreme Remembrance of
God hath conferred upon you?  Verily ye have been especially favored by
God through this mighty Word.4
Persian Bayán
The Persian Baya n is another outstanding work by the Ba b which has been
characterized as the “epitome”5 of His teachings and as “the most weighty, the
most illuminating and comprehensive of all His works.”6  In this book the Ba b
categorically proclaimed Himself as the Qá’im (“He Who will arise”), the Promised
One of the Islamic Faith.7
It was written between 1847 and 1848 during His imprisonment in the Ma h-Ku
fortress.  Shoghi Effendi, strongly highlighted the significance of the Persian
Baya n:
Peerless among the doctrinal works of the Founder of the Bábí
Dispensation; consisting of nine Váḥids (Unities) of nineteen chapters
each, except the last Váḥid comprising only ten chapters; not to be
confounded with the smaller and less weighty Arabic Bayán, revealed
during the same period; fulfilling the Islamic prophecy that “a Youth from

The Ba b, Selections, pp. 59–60.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 70–71.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 63.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 153.
Muh ammad Afna n, “The Ba b’s Baya n”.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 248.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 1:15.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Baní-Háshim … will reveal a new Book and promulgate a new Law;” wholly
safeguarded from the interpolation and corruption which has been the fate
of so many of the Báb’s lesser works, this Book, of about eight thousand
verses, occupying a pivotal position in Bábí literature, should be regarded
primarily as a eulogy of the Promised One rather than a code of laws and
ordinances designed to be a permanent guide to future generations.1
The word Baya n can be translated from Arabic as “clear proof, indisputable
evidence”.  In God Passes By, Shoghi Effendi rendered “Baya n” as “Exposition”.2
Other English terms for the word Baya n are “Revelation”, “Explanation”,3
“Utterance”4 and “Clarification”.5  The term Baya n refers to both the Persian
Baya n and the Arabic Baya n.6  The Arabic Baya n can be considered a condensed
version of the Persian Baya n paralleling many of the themes and structure of the
latter book.  The Persian Baya n was dictated by the Ba b as it was being revealed
to his secretary Siyyid H usayn and an original is kept at the Baha ’í  World Centre.
The Ba b stated His Baya n is the “Word of the Point of Truth”7 and “Our
conclusive testimony unto all things.”8  The Ba b also stated the term Baya n
(“Exposition”) is one of God’s names:
… the first Who called Himself by the name Bayán was God, glorified and
exalted be He, as He hath revealed, “I verily am God, there is none other God
but Me, the One, the Bayán.”9
The Baya n is described as containing “the sum total of all the Scriptures,
whether of the past or of the future”10 and its teachings are the source of human
knowledge:
Should myriads of men of learning, versed in logic, in the science of grammar,
in law, in jurisprudence and the like, turn away from the Book of God, they
would still be pronounced unbelievers.11
The Baya n is the standard measure amongst mankind:
The Bayán shall constitute God’s unerring balance till the Day of
Resurrection which is the Day of Him Whom God will make manifest.  Whoso
acteth in conformity with that which is revealed therein will abide in

Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 25.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 25.
Amanat, “The Persian Bayan and the Shaping of the Babi Renewal”, p. 338.
Muh ammad Afna n, “The Ba b’s Baya n”.
Behmardi & McCants, “A Stylistic Analysis of the Ba b’s Writings”, p. 116.
Mojan Momen, “Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne”, p. 317.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 240.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 284.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 263.
10 The Ba b, Selections, p. 159.
11 The Ba b, Selections, p. 104.

6.  Qayyu mu’l-Asma  and the Persian Baya n

Paradise, under the shadow of His affirmation and reckoned among the most
sublime Letters in the presence of God; while whoso deviateth, were it even
so much as the tip of a grain of barley, will be consigned to the fire and will
be assembled neath the shadow of negation.  This truth hath likewise been
laid bare in the Qur’án where in numerous instances God hath set down that
whoever should pass judgment contrary to the bounds fixed by Him, would
be deemed an infidel ….1
Baha ’u’lla h refers to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the Mother Book of the Bahá’í
Dispensation, as the “unerring Balance”:
Say:  O leaders of religion!  Weigh not the Book of God with such standards
and sciences as are current amongst you, for the Book itself is the unerring
Balance established amongst men.  In this most perfect Balance whatsoever
the peoples and kindreds of the earth possess must be weighed, while the
measure of its weight should be tested according to its own standard, did ye
but know it.2
The Ba b states “… shouldst thou hearken unto the verses of the Bayán and
acknowledge its truth, only then would the revealed verses of God profit thee.”3  The
depth of the Baya n is fathomless:
For should all the oceans in the heavens and on the earth turn into ink, all
the beings into pens, and all the souls into those who inscribe, they would be
incapable of interpreting even a single letter of the Bayán, inasmuch as God
hath destined neither a beginning nor an end for any letter thereof.4
The Ba b instructs His followers to read the Baya n in the context of His earlier
and later writings:
Say!  Gain ye certitude in that which God hath revealed in the Bayán, for
understanding the Bayán is dependent on understanding the totality of its
revelation from beginning to end.  For that which was revealed first is based
upon the Qur’ánic laws; only later were the true measures of the
Dispensation of the Bayán manifested.  Neither be ye shrouded from the later
writings by the earlier writings, nor fix your eyes merely on the later writings
and ignore the earlier ones. …  Yet, the later the revelation of the writings,
the more manifest is the divine intention therein.5
The Ba b affirms the uniqueness of the verses of the Baya n as God’s “matchless
testimony for all created things.”6  He further remarks that, “Were all the people
that dwell on earth to assemble together, they would be unable to produce a single

The Ba b, Selections, p. 102.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 99, p. 56.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 80–81.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 290.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 290.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 104.

Dispensation of the Ba b
verse like unto the ones which God hath caused to stream forth from the tongue of
the Point of the Bayán.”1
The Ba b also states that the verses of the Baya n offer a divine proof equivalent
to a miracle:
On this, that he who adduceth any proof other than the Book of God and the
verses of the Bayán, other than the powerlessness of all to produce their like,
is veiled from any proof.  He who recounteth any miracle, other than the
verses, is veiled from any truth.  He who claimeth to reveal divine verses
should not be opposed by anyone.2
Baha ’u’lla h explained the authority the Ba b had to change the laws from
previous dispensations:
God hath in that Book [the Bayán], and by His behest, decreed as lawful
whatsoever He hath pleased to decree, and hath, through the power of His
sovereign might, forbidden whatsoever He elected to forbid.3
According to Shoghi Effendi, the Bayán “at once abrogated the laws and
ceremonials enjoined by the Qur’án regarding prayer, fasting, marriage, divorce
and inheritance.”4  As a new Revelation of God, these laws replaced and
abrogated those of the previous dispensations particularly on religious
observances. In the Persian Bayán 3:16, the Báb wrote:
It is not permissible to engage in religious acts save those ordained in the
Writings of the Point of the Bayán, for in this Dispensation the writings of the
Letters of the Living all proceed directly from the Sun of Truth Himself.5
The Persian and Arabic Baya n were translated into French by A. L. M. Nicolas
at the beginning of the twentieth century.6  A selection of passages from the
Persian Baya n was published by the Universal House of Justice in a compilation
entitled Selection from the Writings of the Báb in 1976.7  ‘Abdu’l-Baha  instructed
that the publication of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas must precede the publications of the
Baya n so that people of the world do not think that Baha ’í s follow the latter.8  The
Baya n, as with many of the Writings of the Ba b, is a difficult text to translate,
requiring expertise across various disciplines, because some of its passages are

The Ba b, Selections, pp. 104–105.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 370.
Baha ’u’lla h, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 149.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 25.
5  Saiedi, Nader.  Modernity in the Writings of the Báb.  Last retrieved 30 September 2021
at https://user-hrqc9mo.cld.bz/Modernity-in-the-Writings-of-the-Ba b/1     (page 4)
A. L. M. Nicolas, Le Beyan Arabe, and Le Béyan Persan.
The Ba b, Selections.
Ishra q Kha va ri, Má’ida-yi Ásmání, vol 2, p. 16–7; & Denis MacEoin, The Sources for Early
Bábí Doctrine and History.

6.  Qayyu mu’l-Asma  and the Persian Baya n

highly symbolic and abstruse, with multiple meanings, and were written in a
language structure, religious and cultural background, prevalent in the first half
of the nineteenth century.1
The Bayán and Him Whom God shall make manifest
He/Him Whom God shall make Manifest (from the Arabic من يظهره هللا, Man
Yuẓhiruhu’lláh), mentioned repeatedly in the Writings of the Ba b is a reference to
Baha ’u’lla h.  Chapters 15 & 16 of the present book are devoted to Him Whom God
shall make Manifest revealing the absolute servitude of the Ba b to Him:
Cause this Tree then to be made into a magnificent Scroll to be offered to the
presence of Him Whom Thou wilt make manifest on the Day of Judgement,
that He may graciously allow the entire company of the followers of the
Bayán to be restored to life and that He may, through His bounty, inaugurate
a new creation.2
Abandon me not to myself, O my Lord, nor deprive me of recognizing Him
Who is the Manifestation of Thine Own Self, nor account me with such as
have turned away from Thy holy presence ….3
The central theme of the Baya n is He Whom God shall make manifest.  Writing
about the Baya n, Baha ’u’lla h said:  “God is My witness that the Bayán was sent
down for no other purpose than to celebrate My praise, did ye but know.  In it the
pure in heart will find only the fragrance of My love, only My Name that
overshadoweth all that seeth and is seen.”4
Shoghi Effendi referred to the Baya n as “that monumental repository of the
laws and precepts of the new Dispensation ….”5  He also stated the Baya n is “the
treasury enshrining most of the Ba b’s references and tributes to, as well as His
warnings regarding, ‘Him Whom God will make manifest’”.
The Ba b mentions Him Whom God shall make Manifest more than seventy
times in the Baya n.6  The words of the Ba b Himself testify to this central theme,
“Nothing has the Baya n in view, save Him Whom God shall make Manifest.”7  The
Ba b also stated:
It is only for the glorification of His Name [Him Whom God will make
manifest] and the exaltation of His Cause that We have enunciated certain
laws at Our behest, or forbidden the acts to which We are averse, so that at

Behmardi & McCants, “A Stylistic Analysis of the Ba b’s Writings”, p. 114.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 172.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 216.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 179, pp. 84–85.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp 24–25.
Moshe Sharon, Notes and Observations, p. 4.
Hasan Balyuzi, Edward Granville Browne and the Bahá’í Faith, p. 84.

Dispensation of the Ba b
the hour of His manifestation ye may attain through Him the good-pleasure
of God and abstain from the things that are abhorrent unto Him.1
The Baya n prescribes that “At the time of the manifestation of Him Whom God
shall make Manifest everyone should be well trained in the teachings of the Bayán
….2
Regarding Him Whom God shall make Manifest the Ba b wrote that the “Bayán
is, from beginning to end, the repository of all of His attributes, and the treasury of
both His fire and His light”;3 and that “[t]he Bayán and whosoever is therein revolve
round the saying of ‘Him Whom God will make manifest’.”4  Also, the Ba b said that
“every letter revealed in the Bayán is solely intended to evoke submission unto Him
Whom God shall make Manifest, for it is He Who hath revealed the Bayán prior to
His Own manifestation”5 and that “the Bayán and such as bear allegiance to it are
but a present from me unto Thee [Him Whom God shall make Manifest]”.6  The Ba b
also wrote that Baha ’u’lla h would be the only person who would fully understand
the Baya n:  “none shall encompass that which God hath revealed in the Bayán
except Him Whom God shall make Manifest ….”7  He further declares:
For all that hath been exalted in the Bayán is but as a ring upon My hand,
and I Myself am, verily, but a ring upon the hand of Him Whom God will make
manifest—glorified be His mention!  He turneth it as He pleaseth, for
whatsoever He pleaseth, and through whatsoever He pleaseth.8
I have written down in My mention of Him these gem-like words:  “No
allusion of Mine can allude unto Him, neither anything mentioned in the
Bayán.9
Further, the Ba b states that the laws of the Baya n would end with the
appearance of Baha ’u’lla h:  “The Bayán shall constitute God’s unerring balance till
the Day of Resurrection which is the Day of Him Whom God will make manifest”,10
and “none save Him hath ever elevated/abrogated, or will ever elevate/abrogate,
this Book.”11  Hence, the Baya n guided the period between the Ba b and
Baha ’u’lla h:

The Ba b, Selections, p. 149.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 85.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 101.
The Ba b in Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 100.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 104.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 7.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 65.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 168.
The Ba b in Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By, p. 30.
10 The Ba b, Selections, p. 102.
11 The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 276.

6.  Qayyu mu’l-Asma  and the Persian Baya n

And from the time of the setting of the Sun [of the Báb] until the Rising of the
Sun of Him Whom God will make manifest, there will be no more binding
Writings, and the Letters of the Living1 and all the believers in God and in the
Bayán will be under their [the Writings of the Point of the Bayán] shadow.2
For the Ba b, obeying the precepts of the Baya n is acting in accordance with
the will of Him Whom God shall make Manifest:
Whoso acteth in conformity with that which is revealed therein will abide in
Paradise, under the shadow of His affirmation and reckoned among the most
sublime Letters in the presence of God; while whoso deviateth, were it even
so much as the tip of a grain of barley, will be consigned to the fire and will
be assembled neath the shadow of negation.3
For in the Day of the Revelation of Him Whom God will make manifest, the
Bayán will fix Its eyes upon Its believers while saying unto them:  ‘Is there
any spirit related to Me who would step forth in this Day to acknowledge Him
Whom God will make manifest, and thus be faithful to the covenant of his
Lord that is established in Me?’  It would rejoice if its faithful believers
recognize its Revealer, and would be saddened if its faithful believers cause
its Revealer any grief.4
The Ba b makes clear that the purpose of the Baya n is to train the Ba bí s “so
that none of the followers may outwardly cling to the Bayán and thus forfeit their
allegiance unto Him.  If anyone does so, the verdict of ‘disbeliever in God’ shall be
passed upon him.”5  Therefore the Baya n contains many warnings to be vigilant
so that no veils exist to hinder the recognition of the Manifestation to come:
O congregation of the Bayán, and all who are therein!  Recognize ye the limits
imposed upon you, for such a One as the Point of the Bayán Himself hath
believed in Him Whom God will make manifest, before all things were
created.  Therein, verily, do I glory before all who are in the kingdom of
heaven and earth.  Suffer not yourselves to be shut out as by a veil from God
after He hath revealed Himself.6
The Ba b encouraged the printing of the Baya n to enable everyone to know and
remember Him Whom God shall make Manifest so that there would be no excuses
for failing to recognize Him.7

The “Letters of the Living” were the first 18 believers in the Ba b.  See Dawn-Breakers,
pp. 80–82.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 347.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 102.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, pp. 276–277.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 85.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 168.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 8:7.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Structure of the Bayán
Both the Persian Baya n and the Arabic Baya n were initially designed to
include nineteen vahids (unities) of nineteen chapters each, called gates (abwáb),
i.e. a total of 361 sections in each book.  However, both the Persian and Arabic
Baya n are unfinished.  The Persian Baya n has only eight complete vahids
(unities) and the ninth va h id has only ten gates (abwáb).  The Arabic Baya n has
only eleven vuh da n (pl. of va h id, “unity”).
That the two Baya ns were left incomplete about two years before the
martyrdom of the Ba b may have been intentional.1  “The incompleteness of the
Baya n,” Nader Saiedi wrote, “eloquently attests that the dispensation of the
Baya n was not like other typical religions with a long time span in which the
details of its laws and commandments were to be institutionalized.”2  For some
believers this interruption was a clear indication of the imminence of Him Whom
God shall make Manifest as God never left a Revelation unfinished.3
According to Shoghi Effendi, “The Ba b specified that the ‘Baya n’ is not
complete and that ‘He Whom God would manifest’ (Baha ’u’lla h) would complete
it, though not in its actual form, but only spiritually in the form of another book.
The ‘I qa n [Kita b-i-‘I qa n]4 is believed to be its continuation.”5  The Kita b-i-I qa n
(“The Book of Certitude”) was revealed by Baha ’u’lla h in Baghda d in 1861–1862,
the year before the public declaration of His mission.6
The Writings of the Báb while incarcerated in Máh-Kú
Muh ammad Sha h, imagined that the oblivion, loneliness and humiliation of
incarceration would quench the divine heart of the Ba b.  However, the flame
burning in Shí ra z was destined to shed its light from a mountain fortress in Ma h-
Ku .  The light of the Faith of the Ba b burned with the greatest intensity in that
desolate region.
The confinement of the Ba b in the Ma h-Ku  fortress lasted for nine months but
proved to be one of the most prolific periods of His revelation.  The outpouring of
writings emanating from His pen was accompanied by intensification in the
ardour of His adherents.  This was manifest in events such as the Badasht
Conference where old structures and laws were abolished, and new laws were
proclaimed.7
The Dala ’il-i-Sab‘ih (“The Seven Proofs”)—“the most important of the
polemical works of the Ba b”8—was revealed during His confinement on the Ma h-

Muh ammad Afna n, “The Ba b’s Baya n”.
Nader Saiedi, Logos and Civilization, p. 127.
Hasan Balyuzi, Eminent Bahá’ís, p. 132.
Kita b-i-I qa n written in Baghda d by Baha ’u’lla h in 1861/1862.
Shoghi Effendi, Dawn of a New Day, p. 78.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 138.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 288–301.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 26.

6.  Qayyu mu’l-Asma  and the Persian Baya n

Ku  fortress.  Here, too, was revealed the Tablet to Muh ammad Sha h, which is
distinguished for the emphatic terms with which the sovereign was addressed
and rebuked for having decreed the imprisonment of the Ba b in Ma h-Ku .  In this
Tablet, the monarch is made aware of the ephemeral nature of his power and is
condemned for his pernicious use of that power.  He is also informed of the
wretched circumstances that the Messenger of God has endured as a result.
The town of Ma h-Ku  is dominated to the south and north by the peaks of the
north western end of the Zagros mountain range.  The Ma h-Ku  fortress is a little
north of the town and it sits at the base of a high, overhanging cliff.  Hence, it is
impossible for the inhabitants of the fortress to observe a full moon.  For this
reason people say that Ma h-Ku  means “where is the moon?”  The Ba b called it
“Jabal-i-Ba sit ” (meaning “Open Mountain”).  Ma h-Ku  and Ba sit  share the same
abjad value of 72.  Of Ma h-Ku  the Ba b wrote in the Baya n:  “He dwells in a mountain
of which the inhabitants could not even pronounce the name ‘Jannat’ (Paradise)
which is an Arabic word; how then could they understand its meaning?  Imagine
then what can happen in the matter of the essential truths!”1
The castle fortress where the Ba b was imprisoned was in a deplorable
condition.  According to architect/historian Dr Andreh Marouti, the fortress is
about 500 years old.  “The surviving ruins indicates the greatness of the building
during its heyday,” he also wrote.  “These include high walls, various corridors,
nested inner fences, carved stone terraces, and watchtowers made of carved
stone materials.”2  The castle contained, many square rooms, together with
several courtyards and platforms.  Under the main floor there were vaults
intended for storage.  The doorway to the cell of the Ba b had no door, nor was He
provided with a lamp for light at night.  Yet, this notwithstanding, the Ba b
referred to it as “the greatest of the gardens of Paradise” where the “Tree of
Truth”3 was planted.
From the fortress there was a path that led down to the village.  The ruins of
the fortress can still be seen at the base of the mountain cliff, a few hundred
meters from the valley where the village of Ma h-Ku   was located.4  Temperatures
can reach as low as –23°C and it has been written by Nabí l the historian that “The
water which the Ba b used for His ablutions was of such icy coldness that its drops
glistened as they froze upon His face.”5  The temperature range is such that in
summer the temperature can soar to 37°C with heavy rainfall in spring.6

The Ba b in Emily McBride Pe rigord, Translation of French Foot-Notes, p. 30.
Andreh Marouti, “Infrastructure for Trade Routes”, p. 251.
Emily McBride Pe rigord, Translation of French Foot-Notes, p. 31.
The village has since spread up the hill towards the fortress and been absorbed into
the large city of Ma ku , which has spread along the mountain gorge of the Zangma r
River.  The city centre is 4 km to the west.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 252.
Wikipedia.  Maku, Iran.  Last retrieved on 15 May 2022 from https://en.
wikipedia.org/wiki/Maku,_Iran

Dispensation of the Ba b
The Ba b reveals His grief and suffering living forsaken in the harsh mountains
of Ma h-Ku .  “For assuredly,” the Ba b wrote, “whatsoever God hath decreed for Me
shall come to pass and naught else save that which God hath ordained for us shall
ever touch us.”1
In this mountain I have remained alone, and have come to such a pass that
none of those gone before Me have suffered what I have suffered, nor any
transgressor endured what I have endured!2
How veiled are ye, O My creatures, … who, without any right, have consigned
Him unto a mountain [Máh-Kú], not one of whose inhabitants is worthy of
mention.… With Him, which is with Me, there is no one except him who is one
of the Letters of the Living of My Book.  In His presence, which is My Presence,
there is not at night even a lighted lamp!  And yet, in places [of worship]
which in varying degrees reach out unto Him, unnumbered lamps are
shining!  All that is on earth hath been created for Him, and all partake with
delight of His benefits, and yet they are so veiled from Him as to refuse Him
even a lamp!3
How can I praise Thee, O Lord, for the evidences of Thy mighty splendor and
for Thy wondrous sweet savors which Thou hast imparted to Me in this
fortress, in such measure that nothing in the heavens or on the earth can
compare with them?  Thou hast watched over Me in the heart of this
mountain where I am compassed by mountains on all sides.  One hangeth
above Me, others stand on My right and My left and yet another riseth in
front of Me.  Glory be unto Thee, no God is there but Thee.  How often have I
seen rocks from the mountain hurtling down upon Me, and Thou didst
protect Me therefrom and preserved Me within the stronghold of Thy divine
Unity.4
The Persian Baya n was revealed upon the mountain of Ma h-Ku  (July 1847–10
April 1848).  The Ba b dictated the entire Persian Baya n to his amanuensis, one of
the Letters of the Living, Siyyid H usayn Yazdí .  Some scholars5 believe that while
the majority of the Writing occurred in Ma h-Ku , it was finished in His subsequent
imprisonment in Chihrí q (April 1848–June 1850).
The Writings of the Báb while incarcerated in Chihríq
Ma h-Ku  and Chihrí q are both located in the mountains of A dharbayja n in the
northwest of Persia.
The fortress of Chihrí q is less than 1 km to the west of the village of Chihrí q-i-
Ulya and 19 km southeast of the Ottoman (now Turkey) border and was inhabited
by Christian Armenians until twenty years before the Ba b arrived.  The adjacent

The Ba b, Selections, p. 15.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 16.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 87.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 183.
Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, pp. 260–261.

6.  Qayyu mu’l-Asma  and the Persian Baya n

village included an Armenian Church and cemetery.  The fortress was built in pre-
Islamic times, abandoned, and then used by Iranian forces fighting Russian
invaders in 1911.  It was later used during the Simko Shikak tribal Kurdish revolt
(1918 to 1922) against the Qa ja rs and is now known as “Shimko Castle”.  According
to Andreh Marouti the fortress was over 80 m high, “and its area was more than
12,000 m2.  It had twelve main towers and four towers inside the mansion of Yahya
Khan Chehriqi [the fortress guardian].”1
The Ba b spent two years (April 1848–June 1850) in Chihrí q and named it the
Grievous Mountain.  Chihrí q and the word “Shadí d” (“grievous”) have the same
abjad value of 318.  A number of important works were revealed there, such as
the Kita b-i-Asma ’ (“Book of Divine Names”) and the Kita b-i-Panj Sha’n (“The
Book of Five Modes or Grades”).  The latter was one of the last of His books in
which He categorically identifies Him Whom shall make manifest with Baha ’u’lla h:
“Do ye know Bahá’u’lláh or not?  For He is the glory of Him Whom shall make
manifest.”2
In July 1850, M. Mochenin, a Russian travelling agent passed by Chihrí q and
reported seeing the Ba b with the following words:  “I saw the Bala-Khanih [upper
house] from the heights of which the Ba b taught his doctrine.  The multitude of
hearers was so great that the court was not large enough to hold them all; most
of them stayed in the streets and listened with religious rapture to the verses of
the new Qur’a n.”3  In 1944, Shoghi Effendi announced that part of the village of
Chihrí q-i-Ulya (“Upper” Chihrí q) had been purchased4 and in 1954 he announced
that advanced negotiations were in progress to acquire the castle itself.5
A dharbayja n, literally the “Land of Fire guardians” in old Persian, refers to the
Zoroastrians who are famous for their constancy in tending the sacred fire in
their temples.  Their Prophet Zarathustra (Zoroaster) is among a company of
other now unknown prophets in the Qur’a n in which His followers are referred
to as "those who dwelt at Rass".  According to ‘Abdu’l-Baha , this signifies the
Araxes River in Qafqaz, (the Caucasus).  The region is also mentioned in Islamic
traditions as "Kuh-i-Qaf' (Mount Qaf).6
The fact that A dharbayja n is implied in Islamic traditions as a place of
prophecy is corroborated by the Ba b:
What must needs befall us in Ádhirbayján is inevitable and without parallel.
When this happeneth, rest ye in your homes and remain patient as we have

Marouti, “Infrastructure for Trade Routes”, p. 252.
The Ba b in Adib Taherzadeh, The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 44.
Moojan Momen, The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, p. 75.
Bahá’í News, No. 169, July 1944, p. 2.  Last retrieved 15 September 2022 at
https://bahai.works/index.php?title=File:Baha%27i_News_169.pdf&page=2
Bahá’í News, No. 58, November 1954.  Last retrieved 30 June 2022 at
https://bahai.works/File:Canadian_Bahai_News_58.pdf
Qur'a n, 25:40 & 50:12.  See ‘Abdu'l-Baha , Additional Tablets, Extracts and Talks, p. 19.

Dispensation of the Ba b
remained patient.  As soon as the Mover moveth make ye haste to attain unto
Him, even though ye have to crawl over the snow.1

The Revelation of the Ba b was vast.  The Qayyu mu’l-Asma ’ was a central book
for the Ba bí s because it contained a broad and substantial exposition of the
teachings of the Ba b at an earlier stage of His mission.  For this reason the
Qayyu mu’l-Asma ’ was considered as the Qur’a n of the followers of the Ba b.
The Persian Baya n was the main repository of the doctrines of the Ba b, and is
referred to by Shoghi Effendi as the Mother Book of the Ba bí  Dispensation.  No
previous revelation had ever had such a strong focus on the next Messenger of
God.  In the Persian Baya n and several other books, the Ba b penned innumerable
passages pertaining to the advent of Him Whom God shall make Manifest, “His
Beloved”.2  The majority of the Writings of the Ba b attest to His devotion to
Baha ’u’lla h, for Whom the Ba b sacrificed His life in 1850.


The Ba b, Selections, pp. 16–17.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 125–126.



The Faith of the Báb
The Faith of the blessed Ba b was stupendous and brilliant in its magnificence.
Its grandeur is best depicted by the remarks pronounced by Baha ’u’lla h, ‘Abdul-
Baha  and Shoghi Effendi, situating the Ba bí  Faith at the pinnacle and end of the
six-thousand year prophetic cycle commenced by Adam.
Eminent scholars across three centuries have written extensively of the
significance of the Ba bí  Faith for humanity.  Prophetic references from past Holy
Books also indicate the potency of His dispensation.
The purpose and significance of the Ba bí  Faith is considered in this chapter in
the light of the twofold mission of the Ba b as an independent Messenger of God,
bringing a new Revelation to mankind; and, simultaneously, as the Harbinger of
the coming of Baha ’u’lla h.  Having been divinely entrusted with these two
commissions within a short six-year ministry meant that the Ba b lived a life of
extreme intensity, and revealed His teachings with an astonishing degree of
rapidity and abundance.  “We behold,” wrote Shoghi Effendi, “as we survey the
episodes of this first act of a sublime drama, the figure of its Master Hero, the Ba b,
arise meteor-like above the horizon of Shí ra z, traverse the sombre sky of Persia
from south to north, decline with tragic swiftness, and perish in a blaze of glory.”1
The following are the main themes of this chapter:
•
The purpose of the Faith of the Ba b
•
The act of conversion
•
The greatness of the Revelation of the Ba b according to:
◆
Baha ’u’lla h
◆
‘Abdu’l-Baha
◆
Shoghi Effendi
The purpose of the Faith of the Báb
In the Qayyúmu’l-Asmá the Ba b calls His Faith “a new Cause”, “the Wondrous
Cause” (al-Amr al-Badí‘), the “Wondrous Truth” (al-Ḥaqq al-Badí‘), the “pure
religion” (al-dín al-kháliṣ)2 and “a new [Prophetic] creation” (khalq-i-badí‘).3
Primarily, the Ba b declared that He had revealed Himself for the advent of
Baha ’u’lla h:

Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 3.
Stephen Lambden, “From a Primal Point to an Archetypical Book”, p. 152.
Amanat, “The Persian Bayan and the Shaping of the Babi Renewal”, p. 337.

Dispensation of the Ba b
I have revealed Myself for His Manifestation, and have caused My Book, the
Bayán, to descend upon you for no other purpose except to establish the truth
of His Cause.1
The Ba b also says that the purpose of His Faith is to “purge and purify you from
uncleanliness in anticipation of the Day of the One true God”2 and His “verses, clear
and conclusive, are a token of the mercy of thy Lord and a source of guidance for all
mankind.”3  The Ba b was chosen by God “to warn the people, to guide the believers
aright and to elucidate the secrets of the Book”4 and had “appeared in the midmost
heart of Islám.”5
In unequivocal terms, the Ba b declares to Muh ammad Sha h the purpose of His
advent:
I swear by God, the Peerless, the Incomparable, the True One:  for no other
reason hath He—the supreme Testimony of God—invested Me with clear
signs and tokens than that all men may be enabled to submit to His Cause.
… All the keys of heaven God hath chosen to place on My right hand, and all
the keys of hell on My left ….6
About His Faith He further declares:
Verily this is the true Faith of God, and sufficient witness are God and such as
are endowed with the knowledge of the Book.  This is indeed the eternal
Truth which God, the Ancient of Days, hath revealed unto His omnipotent
Word—He Who hath been raised up from the midst of the Burning Bush.
This is the Mystery which hath been hidden from all that are in heaven and
on earth, and in this wondrous Revelation it hath, in very truth, been set forth
in the Mother Book by the hand of God, the Exalted ….7
Verily We have taken a covenant from every created thing upon its coming
into being concerning the Remembrance of God, and there shall be none to
avert the binding command of God for the purification of mankind, as
ordained in the Book which is written by the hand of the Báb.8
The Ba b did not fully declare His mission at the beginning because of the
limited understanding of the people at that time.  He said, “… I did not wish My
identity to be known by men, and gave instructions that My name should be
concealed, because I was fully aware of the incapacity of this people ….”9  In

Baha ’u’lla h, Gleanings, p. 147.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 62.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 163.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 67.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 108.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 12.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 41.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 65.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 121.

7.  The Faith of the Ba b

declaring His station to the Letters of the Living1 in May 1844 He guided them to
refrain from informing others of His identity.  That same year He went on
pilgrimage to Mecca to make a public declaration of His station in the very heart
of the Islamic world. However, the Ba b had intimated about His station in
previous Writings and given an indication of being the Qá’im to a few believers
such as ‘Azí m.2
All the Prophets of God initially concealed Their stations.  For example, in the
early days, Christ “commanded his disciples not to tell anyone that He was the
Christ.” (Matthew, 16:20)  He was only publicly announced and greeted with
“Hosanna!  Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord” (Mark 11:9) when
He entered Jerusalem.  Baha ’u’lla h, likewise, only manifested His mission in
Baghda d between 21 April and 2 May 1863, after concealing the Divine Message
from the eyes of men for nearly ten years.
When the mission of the Ba b became publicly known, He began addressing all
the people of the earth in passages such as this:
Verily, on the First Day We flung open the gates of Paradise unto all the
peoples of the world, and exclaimed:  “O all ye created things!  Strive to gain
admittance into Paradise, since ye have, during all your lives, held fast unto
virtuous deeds in order to attain unto it.”  Surely all men yearn to enter
therein, but alas, they are unable to do so by reason of that which their hands
have wrought.3
The Ba b indicates that it is within His power to coerce the whole world to His
Cause:
Should it be Our wish, it is in Our power to compel, through the agency of but
one letter of Our Revelation, the world and all that is therein to recognize, in
less than the twinkling of an eye, the truth of Our Cause ….4
Yet, even if men were compelled to accept the Cause of the Ba b, it does not
mean that they would be united in its vision, except through the mercy of God
(see Qur’a n 11:120):
Had it been Our wish, We would have brought all men into one fold round
Our Remembrance, yet they will not cease to differ [Qur’án 11:120], unless
God accomplish what He willeth through the power of truth.5
Nevertheless, the Ba b claimed that His power of conversion had no limits:

The first eighteen disciples of the Ba b.  Eventually, the Ba b declared Himself a Letter
of the Living becoming all together the Va h id (unit) of the Baya n.
2  Fereydun Vahman, The Báb: A Sun in a Night not Followed by Dawn, p. 58.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 145.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 168.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 67.

Dispensation of the Ba b
I have committed Myself into the hands of God.  My trust is in Him.  Such is
the power which He has bestowed upon Me that if it be My wish, I can convert
these very stones into gems of inestimable value, and can instil into the heart
of the most wicked criminal the loftiest conceptions of uprightness and duty.1
The act of conversion
The Ba b prayed that, eventually, the whole world would embrace His Faith
showing the universal character of His revelation.  “O Lord!  Enable all the peoples
of the earth to gain admittance into the Paradise of Thy Faith,” the Ba b wrote, “so
that no created being may remain beyond the bounds of Thy good-pleasure.”2
For the Ba b, “… the essence of religion is none other than submission unto this
Remembrance.”3  He compares the believers with the non-believers:  The former
are referred to as “those endowed with the eyes of the spirit” who “circle like moths
round the Light of Truth until they are consumed”,4 and will “receive those musk-
scented breaths which I have nursed in the midmost heart of My throne.”5  The latter
are described as those whose “hearts are deprived of the power of true insight, and
thus they cannot see.”6  Yet, all are obliged to recognize Him as the new
Manifestation of God:
Verily in this Day all that dwell on earth are the servants of God.  As to those
who truly believe in God and are well assured in the signs revealed by Him,
perchance He will graciously forgive them the things their hands have
committed, and will grant them admission into the precincts of His mercy.
He, in truth, is the Ever-Forgiving, the Compassionate.  But the verdict of
divine chastisement is pronounced against those who have turned away
disdainfully from Me and have repudiated the conclusive proofs and the
unerring Book with which God hath invested Me, and on the Day of Severing
they shall find no protector or helper.7
The relationship between the believer and the Manifestation of God is like that
of a mirror reflecting the sun.  “Gaze not upon this Word,” says the Ba b, “except as
thou beholdest the sun in the heaven, and perceive not him who believeth in Him
save as thou lookest at the mirror ….”8  Elaborating on this analogy He says:
How beloved it hath been, and continueth to be, before God that in each
Revelation pure mirrors will reflect the Tree of Truth.  But the mirrors are
not illumined by themselves, independent of the Primal Will, for had they
been radiant by themselves, they would have been speaking before the Day

Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 213–214.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 191.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 142.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 79.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 57.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 79.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 19–20.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 266.

7.  The Faith of the Ba b

of Revelation. …  All the mirrors abide by His bidding, return unto Him, utter
His glory, and seek shelter beneath His shadow.1
According to the Baya n, all human beings have been created níkú2 (meaning
“good”, “beautiful”, or “righteous and virtuous”).  This challenges the tradition of
original sin.  The Ba b teaches that God’s creation is perfect,3 the soul being a sign
of Himself4 and the human heart being His home and reflecting His attributes:5
He hath ordained that His home be the heart of His servant; by it the reality
of existence shall be recognized, and the Fashioner of men be praised, and
the bounty of existence pour forth through His ever-flowing Pen.6
The following four sections reflect on the greatness of the Revelation of the
Ba b and give us glimpses of its glory.
Bahá’u’lláh on the greatness of the Faith of the Báb
Baha ’u’lla h refers to the Ba b as the “Essence of Essences”,7 the “immortal
Youth”,8 the “Sea of Seas”,9 the “Point round Whom the realities of the Prophets and
Messengers revolve”, for which “the soul of every Divine Messenger hath thirsted”,
through Whom “God hath proved the hearts of the entire company of His
Messengers and Prophets”10 and “through Whom the point of creation hath been
made to revolve in both the visible and invisible worlds.”11
“We, verily, believe in Him” affirms Baha ’u’lla h, “Who, in the person of the Báb,
hath been sent down by the Will of the one true God, the King of Kings, the All-
Praised.”12  Moreover, in the Kita b-i-I qa n, Baha ’u’lla h refers to the Ba b in the
following way:
… all names and attributes revolve round His Essence and circle about the
threshold of His sanctuary.  For He it is Who traineth all names, revealeth all
attributes, conferreth life upon all beings, proclaimeth the divine verses, and
arrayeth the heavenly signs.  Nay, shouldst thou gaze with thine inner eye,
thou wouldst find that all save Him fade into utter nothingness and are as a
thing forgotten in His holy presence.13

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 393.
Mohammadhossein, The Báb as a Primary Source of Bahá’u’lláh’s Teachings.
Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 316.
Nader Saiedi, “Phenomenology of Occultation and Prayer”, p. 207.
Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 43.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 43.
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By, p. 57.
Baha ’u’lla h in Immortal Youth, p. 24; Days of Remembrance, no. 27.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 57.
10 Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 3.
11 Baha ’u’lla h, Prayers and Meditations, p. 300.
12 Baha ’u’lla h, Gleanings, p. 73.
13 Baha ’u’lla h, Gems of Divine Mysteries, pp. 65–66.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Explaining the scope of the Revelation of the Ba b, Baha ’u’lla h refers to an
Islamic prophecy:  “Knowledge is twenty and seven letters.  All that the Prophets
have revealed are two letters thereof.  No man thus far hath known more than these
two letters.  But when the Qá’im shall arise, He will cause the remaining twenty and
five letters to be made manifest.”1  Similarly, in referring to the Ba b, Baha ’u’lla h
stated that “The purpose in creating the world and making it to flourish was His
Manifestation.”2 Baha ’u’lla h writes:
Behold how great and lofty is His station!  His rank excelleth that of all the
Prophets and His Revelation transcendeth the comprehension and
understanding of all their chosen ones.3
Baha ’u’lla h demonstrates His deep love for the Ba b and reminds us of Him in
a prayer for fasting:
Magnify Thou, O Lord my God, Him Who is the Primal Point, the Divine
Mystery, the Unseen Essence, the Dayspring of Divinity, and the
Manifestation of Thy Lordship, through Whom all the knowledge of the past
and all the knowledge of the future were made plain, through Whom the
pearls of Thy hidden wisdom were uncovered, and the mystery of Thy
treasured name disclosed, Whom Thou hast appointed as the Announcer of
the One through Whose name the letter B and the letter E have been joined
and united, through Whom Thy majesty, Thy sovereignty and Thy might
were made known, through Whom Thy words have been sent down, and Thy
laws set forth with clearness, and Thy signs spread abroad, and Thy Word
established, through Whom the hearts of Thy chosen ones were laid bare,
and all that were in the heavens and all that were on the earth were gathered
together, Whom Thou hast called ‘Alí-Muḥammad in the kingdom of Thy
names, and the Spirit of Spirits in the Tablets of Thine irrevocable decree,
Whom Thou hast invested with Thine own title, unto Whose name all other
names have, at Thy bidding and through the power of Thy might, been made
to return, and in Whom Thou hast caused all Thine attributes and titles to
attain their final consummation.  To Him also belong such names as lay hid
within Thy stainless tabernacles, in Thine invisible world and Thy sanctified
cities.4
We conclude with “the most memorable and touching” tribute from the pen
of Baha ’u’lla h to “His Beloved”,5 the Ba b:
Amidst them all, We stand life in hand wholly resigned to His Will, that
perchance through God’s loving kindness and grace, this revealed and

Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, pp. 243–244.
Javidukht Khadem, Zikrullah Khadem, p. 254.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 244.
Bahá’í Prayers, pp. 258–259.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 125.

7.  The Faith of the Ba b

manifest Letter may lay down His life as a sacrifice in the path of the Primal
Point, the most exalted Word.1
‘Abdu’l-Bahá on the greatness of the Faith of the Báb
‘Abdu’l-Baha  referred to the Ba b as the “Morn of Truth, the splendor of Whose
light shineth throughout all regions”, and as the “Harbinger of the Most Great
Light”.2  In His Will and Testament, ‘Abdu’l-Baha  testified to “the foundation of the
belief of the people of Bahá” that “His holiness the exalted One (the Báb) is the
Manifestation of the unity and oneness of God and the Forerunner of the Ancient
Beauty.”3
‘Abdu’l-Baha  explains that among the first pronouncements of the Ba b was
His being the Promised One, and that later His mission focused on proclaiming
the coming of Baha ’u’lla h:
It was then supposed that He claimed to be the medium of grace from His
Highness the Lord of the Age (upon Him be peace);4 but afterwards it became
known and evident that His meaning was the Gatehood [Bábíyyat] of
another city and the mediumship of the graces of another Person Whose
qualities and attributes were contained in His books and treatises.5
Importantly, ‘Abdu’l-Baha  stated that the Baha ’í  Faith is based on belief in
both the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h:
This is the foundation of the belief of the people of Bahá (may my life be
offered up for them):  “His Holiness, the Exalted One (the Báb), is the
Manifestation of the Unity and Oneness of God and the Forerunner of the
Ancient Beauty.  His Holiness the Abhá Beauty (may my life be a sacrifice for
His steadfast friends) is the Supreme Manifestation of God and the Dayspring
of His Most Divine Essence.  All others are servants unto Him and do His
bidding.”6
In a tribute to the Ba b, ‘Abdu’l-Baha  wrote:
As for the Báb … it was at a young age, that is, in the twenty-fifth year of His
blessed life, that He arose to proclaim His Cause.  Among the Shí‘yún it is
universally acknowledged that He never studied in any school, nor acquired
learning from any teacher.  To this the people of Shíráz, each and all, bear
witness.  Nevertheless, He suddenly appeared before the people, endowed
with consummate knowledge, and though but a merchant, confounded all

Baha ’u’lla h, Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 252.
‘Abdu’l-Baha  in Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 127.
‘Abdu’l-Baha , Will and Testament, p. 19.
It was a Shí ‘a belief that the Sahibu’z-Zaman (“The Lord of the Age”) disappeared in the
year CE 844 (AH 260) and that during his occultation he communicated with the
faithful through four gates (e.g, babs).  The Sahibu’z-Zaman was to return 1,000 years
later in CE 1844 (AH 1260)
‘Abdu’l-Baha , A Traveller’s Narrative, p. 6.
‘Abdu’l-Baha , The Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 19.

Dispensation of the Ba b
the divines of Persia.  Alone, He undertook a task that can scarcely be
conceived, for the Persians are known throughout the world for their
religious fanaticism.  This illustrious Being arose with such power as to shake
the foundations of the religious laws, customs, manners, morals, and habits
of Persia, and instituted a new law, faith, and religion.  Though the eminent
men of the State, the majority of the people, and the leaders of religion arose
one and all to destroy and annihilate Him, He single-handedly withstood
them and set all of Persia in motion.  How numerous the divines, the leaders,
and the inhabitants of that land who with perfect joy and gladness offered
up their lives in His path and hastened to the field of martyrdom!
The government, the nation, the clergy, and prominent leaders sought to
extinguish His light, but to no avail.  At last His moon rose, His star shone
forth, His foundation was secured, and His horizon was flooded with light.
He trained a large multitude through divine education and exerted a
marvellous influence upon the thoughts, customs, morals, and manners of
the Persians.  He proclaimed the glad-tidings of the manifestation of the Sun
of Bahá to all His followers and readied them for faith and certitude.1
Shoghi Effendi on the greatness of the Faith of the Báb
Shoghi Effendi lists in God Passes By some of the references from Scriptures of
the past that pertain to the Ba b:
From the Qur’án
… the first of the two “Messengers,” Whose appearance had been
prophesied in the Qur’án, had been sent down.  The first “Trumpet-Blast”,
destined to smite the earth with extermination, announced in the latter
Book [the Qur’án], had finally been sounded.  “The Inevitable,” “The
Catastrophe,” “The Resurrection,” “The Earthquake of the Last Hour,”
foretold by that same Book, had all come to pass.  The “clear tokens” had
been “sent down”, and the “Spirit” had “breathed”, and the “souls” had
“waked up”, and the “heaven” had been “cleft”, and the “angels” had “ranged
in order”, and the “stars” had been “blotted out”, and the “earth” had “cast
forth her burden”, and “Paradise” had been “brought near”, and “hell” had
been “made to blaze”, and the “Book” had been “set”, and the “Bridge” had
been “laid out”, and the “Balance” had been “set up”, and the “mountains
scattered in dust.” …  The “day whose length shall be a thousand years,”
foretold by the Apostle of God in His Book, had terminated.2
From the Old Testament
The “cleansing of the Sanctuary,” prophesied by Daniel and confirmed by
Jesus Christ in His reference to “the abomination of desolation,” had been
accomplished.3

‘Abdu’l-Baha  in Immortal Youth, pp. 33–34; & Days of Remembrance, no. 26.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 58.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 58.

7.  The Faith of the Ba b

From the New Testament
The “Second Woe,” spoken of in the Apocalypse of St. John the Divine, had,
at long last, [had] appeared ….  The “forty and two months,” during which
the “Holy City,” as predicted by St. John the Divine, would be trodden under
foot, had elapsed.  The “time of the end” had been ushered in, and the first
of the “two Witnesses” into Whom, “after three days and a half the Spirit of
Life from God” would enter, had arisen and had “ascended up to heaven in
a cloud.”  The “Man Child,” mentioned in the Book of Revelation, destined
to “rule all nations with a rod of iron,” had released, through His coming,
the creative energies which, reinforced by the effusions of a swiftly
succeeding and infinitely mightier Revelation, were to instill into the
entire human race the capacity to achieve its organic unification, attain
maturity and thereby reach the final stage in its age-long evolution.1
Significantly, the ministry of the Ba b was short—only six years.  ‘Abdu’l-Baha
confirmed all the above prophetic events were fulfilled during this time:
The Exalted One—may my life be offered up for Him—hath said that on the
day of His Revelation all these events came to pass swifter than the twinkling
of an eye, and that “fifty thousand years”2 were traversed in a single hour.3

This chapter reviewed the grandeur of the Faith of the Ba b as characterized
by Baha ’u’lla h, ‘Abdu’l-Baha  and Shoghi Effendi.  The prophetic references about
the advent of the Ba b clearly highlight His revelation as the most formidable
spiritual and historical phenomenon prior to the coming of Baha ’u’lla h.  Here is a
Faith that transformed humanity’s past and present.  Given His dual mission as
an independent Manifestation of God and the forerunner of a new one, the Ba b’s
re-interpreted the teachings and laws of previous religions and, at the same time,
foretold the new world order of Him Whom God shall make Manifest.


Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 58.
Qur’a n 4:78.
‘Abdu’l-Baha , Light of the World, p. 152.



The universal declaration of the Báb
The universal declaration of the Ba b was delivered through a broad range of
epistles.  The recipients of these epistles included:  Muh ammad Sha h and his
prime minister; the kings and their sons; the Concourse of Shí ‘í  Muslims  and
divines; the people of the world; the Sharí f of Mecca;1 Sult a n ‘Abdu’l-Mají d of the
Ottoman Empire; Nají b Pa sha , the Valí  of Baghda d; and the people of the Qur’a n.2
There were also addresses to the “people of the Book”.
In the Qur’a n, this term was generally understood to refer to the Jews, the
Christians, the Sabaeans, and the Zoroastrians.  Nowadays, the tendency amongst
Muslims is to include the believers of all revealed religions including Hindus and
Buddhists.  However, Baha ’u’lla h clarifies that, in some verses of the Qur’a n,
“people of the Book” specifically alludes to “the divines of that age” who
misinterpret or hide the truth (see Qur’a n 3:70–71) and who have “repelled their
fellow-men from the straight path of God” (see Qur’a n 3:99).3
The epistles of the Ba b declared to all sections of humanity that the promised
Day of God had dawned and that He, as a Manifestation of God, was the supreme
spiritual authority for it:
Say:  He [the Báb], verily, is the most perfect Balance established amongst
the nations, through Whom the measures of all things are made manifest by
Him Who is the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.4
To further understand the sheer volume and might of the universal
proclamation of the Ba b, Baha ’u’lla h stated that the Ba b “hath specifically revealed
an Epistle unto the divines of every city, wherein He hath fully set forth the character
of the denial and repudiation of each of them.”5  According to Professor E. G.
Browne, the author of the Nuqṭatu’l-Káf, the Ba b instructed a believer to send
copies of His messages announcing that He was the Qa ’im to “all the lands of
Islam” and accordingly copies were sent to “all corners of the earth”.6
Muḥammad Sháh
The Ba b states that He acted as a Manifestation of God when addressing His
Tablets to Muh ammad Sha h:  “By My life!  But for the obligation to acknowledge

Muh ammad ibn ‘Abd al-Mu‘í n ibn ‘Awn was the Sharí f of Mecca when the Ba b was in
Mecca.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 24.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 16.
Baha ’u’lla h, Days of Remembrance, para. 28.4.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 229.
Denis MacEoin, The Sources for Early Bábí Doctrine and History, p. 16.

8.  The Ba b’s universal declaration

the Cause of Him Who is the Testimony of God … I would not have announced this
unto thee.”1
Three themes are found in the several epistles of the Ba b sent to Muh ammad
Sha h.  The first is His summons to the king to accept and propagate the new Faith
along with several warnings concerning the monarch’s negative attitude towards
the Faith.  Secondly, the Ba b details His sufferings and expresses His longing for
martyrdom.  Thirdly, the monarch is asked to convene a meeting with the divines
to ascertain the truth of His Cause.
Within the first theme the Ba b informs the Sha h about His sublime station,
reminding him that He represents the standard of belief:
Whosoever hath recognized Me hath known all that is true and right and
hath attained all that is good and seemly, and whosoever hath failed to
recognize Me hath turned away from all that is true and right and hath
succumbed to everything evil and unseemly.2
I swear by the truth of God!  Wert thou to know that which I know, thou
wouldst forgo the sovereignty of this world and of the next, that thou
mightest attain My good-pleasure, through thine obedience unto the True
One ….3
In one of the epistles of the Ba b, the king is summoned to assist the Faith of
God:
O King of Islám!  Aid thou, with the truth, after having aided the Book, Him
Who is Our Most Great Remembrance, for God hath, in very truth, destined
for thee, and for such as circle round thee, on the Day of Judgment, a
responsible position in His Path.4
The Ba b also requests the Sha h “to subdue, with the truth and by His leave, the
countries, for in this world thou hast been mercifully invested with sovereignty ….”5
Moreover, the Ba b gives him the task of sharing His Message with the Sult a n of
the Ottoman Empire and with the other kings of the region:
We indeed sent down a Book … unto thee [Muhammad Sháh] to the end
that thou command that there be written the like of what We sent down
therein in golden ink (al-midád al-dhahab) in a noble, naskh script (khatt,
naskh karím).  Then shall thou dispatch this book [Epistle] of thy Lord unto
the Ottoman Sovereign (malik al-rúm) [i.e. Sulṭán ‘Abd al-Majíd] then unto
all the [other] kings (mulúk).6

The Ba b, Selections, p. 12.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 11.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 16.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 41–42.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 42.
The Ba b in Sholeh Quinn, “Muhammad Shah Qajar”, p. 167.

Dispensation of the Ba b
The monarch is promised that in the next world he would “dwell, nigh unto the
Seat of Holiness, with the inmates of the Paradise of His good-pleasure …”1 if he
abides by the decrees of the Ba b.  He is also told of the consequences of accepting
or rejecting the Cause of the Ba b:
I swear by God, O Sháh!  If thou showest enmity unto Him Who is His
Remembrance, God will, on the Day of Resurrection, condemn thee, before
the kings, unto hellfire, and thou shalt not, in very truth, find on that Day any
helper except God, the Exalted.2
Were ye to return, however, ye would be granted whatever ye desire of
earthly possessions and of the ineffable delights of the life to come, and ye
would inherit such glorious might and majesty as your minds can scarce
conceive in this mortal life.  But if ye fail to return then upon ye shall be your
transgressions.3
The Sha h’s rejection of the message of the Ba b means that even his good deeds
were unacceptable:
Ever since the Cause of thy Lord hath appeared none of thy deeds hath been
acceptable, and thou hast been lost in palpable error while all thou couldst
see appeared to thee as deeds performed for the sake of thy Lord.  In truth
thy day is nigh at hand and thou shalt be questioned concerning all this, and
assuredly God is not heedless of the deeds of the wicked.4
Muh ammad Sha h is also blamed for the persecution of the believers and for
the rejection of the Ba b by the majority of the people of Iran.  “Had it not been for
thee,” the Ba b observes, “thy supporters would not have disdainfully rejected Me,
though they have gone more widely astray than the foolish.”5  In addition, the king
is accused of hypocrisy and reminded that the Ba b Himself is a descendant of the
Prophet Muh ammad.
Why dost thou burden thy soul with that which is far more abject than the
deeds of Pharaoh, and still callest thyself one of the faithful?  How dost thou
peruse the verses of the Qur’án, while thou art of the unjust?  Never would
the Jews, nor the Christians nor any such people as have rejected the truth
consent to inflict wrongs upon the son of their Prophet’s daughter.  Woe
betide thee, for the day of chastisement is approaching.  Dost thou not dread
the wrath of thy Lord, the Almighty, the Lord of the heavens, the Lord of all
worlds?  Indeed these manifest verses are conclusive testimony for those who
seek true guidance.6

The Ba b, Selections, p. 42.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 41–21.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 27.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 25.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 25.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 26.

8.  The Ba b’s universal declaration

The Ba b also makes the Sha h aware of the responsibility he bears for the
persecution and martyrdom of the Ba bí s throughout Iran:
Were the veil to be removed from thine eye thou wouldst crawl unto Me on
thy breast, even through the snow, from fear of the chastisement of God
which is swift and near at hand.  By the righteousness of Him Who hath
created thee, wert thou to be acquainted with that which hath transpired
during thy reign, thou wouldst wish not to have issued from thy father’s loins,
but rather to have passed into oblivion.  However, that which God, thy Lord,
had ordained hath presently come to pass, and woe betide the oppressors in
this day.1
Regarding sovereignty, the Ba b reminds the Sha h that all dominion belongs to
Him, “inasmuch as sovereignty, as recorded in the Mother Book by the hand of God,
is surely invested in Him Who is His Remembrance …”2 and warns:  “Let not thy
sovereignty deceive thee, O Sháh, for ‘every soul shall taste of death,’ and this, in
very truth, hath been written down as a decree of God.”3
In a similar vein to the admonition to subdue the ego, the Ba b reminds the
monarch not to become emboldened by material wealth because the Ba b Himself
is the “Inheritor of the earth and all that is therein.”4  “Fear thou God,” Muh ammad
Sha h is advised, “and pride not thyself on thine earthly possessions, inasmuch as
what God doth possess is better for them that tread the path of righteousness.”5  Yet,
the Sha h need not fear that the Ba b plans to dispossess him of his kingship, since
the Ba b is not motivated by earthly possessions:
I have no desire to seize thy property, even to the extent of a grain of mustard,
nor do I wish to occupy thy position.  If thou followest Me not, then unto thee
be the things thou dost possess, and unto Me the land of unfailing security.6
Methinks thou dost imagine that I wish to gain some paltry substance from
this earthly life.  Nay, by the righteousness of My Lord!  In the estimation of
them that have fixed their eyes upon the merciful Lord, the riches of the world
and its trappings are worth as much as the eye of a dead body, nay even less.7
The Ba b reprimands the monarch for being the cause of the sufferings of a
Manifestation of God:
I swear by the Most Great Lord!  Wert thou to be told in what place I dwell,
the first person to have mercy on Me would be thyself.  In the heart of a

The Ba b, Selections, p. 26.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 42.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 41.
The Ba b in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 7.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 19.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 26.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 20–21.

Dispensation of the Ba b
mountain is a fortress [Máh-Kú] … the inmates of which are confined to two
guards and four dogs.  Picture, then, My plight ….1
If thou obeyest Me not, wherefore dost thou look disdainfully upon Me and
seek to treat Me with sore injustice?  Verily, behold My habitation—a lofty
mountain wherein no one dwelleth.2
The Ba b also explains that His submission is to God’s will, stating “Unto God
do I commit Mine affair and yours, and He verily is the best Judge.”3
Whatever reacheth Me is ordained to reach Me; and that which hath come
unto Me, to him who giveth will it revert.  By the One in Whose hand is My
soul, he hath cast no one but himself into prison.  For assuredly whatsoever
God hath decreed for Me shall come to pass and naught else save that which
God hath ordained for us shall ever touch us.  Woe betide him from whose
hands floweth evil, and blessed the man from whose hands floweth good.
Unto no one do I take My plaint save to God; for He is the best of judges.  Every
state of adversity or bliss is from Him alone, and He is the All-Powerful, the
Almighty.4
Ye cannot alter the things which the Almighty hath prescribed unto Me.
Naught shall touch Me besides that which God, My Lord, hath preordained
for Me.  In Him have I placed My whole trust and upon Him do the faithful
place their complete reliance.5
The Ba b also affirms His longing for martyrdom in the Cause of God:  “I am
well pleased to lay down My life in Thy path and erelong to return to Thy presence”;6
therefore, He has no fear of a death sentence.
If thou hast decided to shed My blood, wherefore dost thou delay?  Thou art
now endowed with power and authority.  For Me it will prove an infinite
bounty conferred by God, while for thee and for them that would commit
such an act it will amount to a chastisement meted out by Him.7
How great the blessedness that would await Me, wert thou to pass a verdict
such as this; and what immense joy would be Mine, shouldst thou agree to do
this!  This is a bounty which God hath reserved for them that enjoy near
access to His court.  Give then thy leave and wait no longer.  In truth, mighty
is thy Lord, the Avenger.8

The Ba b, Selections, p. 14.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 26.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 27.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 15.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 27.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 27–28.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 22.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 22.

8.  The Ba b’s universal declaration

Shouldst thou find me deserving of death, then by the sanctified Essence of
God, know that I long for it more than the babe yearneth for its mother’s
breast.1
An important theme of the epistle sent to Muh ammad Sha h by the Ba b is His
condemnation of the royal bureaucracy and in particular the religious authorities
located in Tehran.  In one of the epistles, the Ba b calls for a meeting to
demonstrate the truth of His Faith—a request that was denied:
If thou art not apprehensive that the truth might be revealed and the works
of the ungodly be brought to naught, why summonest thou not the divines of
the land, and then summon Me, so that I may confound them forthwith, even
as those disbelievers whom I have previously confounded?  This is My sure
testimony unto thee and unto them, if they speak the truth.  Summon thou all
of them.  Should they then be able to utter words like unto this, thou wouldst
know that their cause is worthy of attention.  Nay, by the righteousness of My
Lord!  They are bereft of power, nor are they endued with perception.  They
professed faith in the past without understanding its significance, then later
they repudiated the Truth; for they are devoid of discernment.2
If you are not afraid of the triumph of the truth and the abolition of the
falsehood, why then are you not summoning the ʻulama [religious leaders]
of the land and not calling me forth to put them in their place …?  If, however,
you intend to shed my blood, then why do you hesitate …?  For me this is
blessing and mercy from my God and for you and those who act like you this
is toil and suffering from him.3
The Ba b informs the monarch of the epistle sent in the first year of His
declaration that was intercepted by members of the royal court:
In that same year [year 60] I dispatched a messenger and a book unto thee,
that thou mightest act towards the Cause of Him Who is the Testimony of
God as befitteth the station of thy sovereignty.  But inasmuch as dark,
dreadful and dire calamity had been irrevocably ordained by the Will of God,
the book was not submitted to thy presence, through the intervention of such
as regard themselves the well-wishers of the government.  Up to the present,
when nearly four years have passed, they have not duly presented it to Your
Majesty.  However, now that the fateful hour is drawing nigh, and because it
is a matter of faith, not a worldly concern, therefore I have given thee a
glimpse of what hath transpired.4
Hence, the Ba b blames high level royal court officers and the ‘ulama ’ for being
co-perpetrators in the persecution of the believers:

The Ba b in Fereydun Vahman, “The Ba b”, p. 51.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 21–22.
Fereydun Vahman, “The Ba b”, p. 56.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 13.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Woe betide them that wrongfully do injustice to people, and unjustly and
deceitfully usurp the property of the believers in violation of His lucid Book;
whereas I, Who, in very truth, am the rightful Sovereign of all men,
designated by the true, the undeniable Leader, would never infringe on the
integrity of the substance of the people, were it to the extent of a grain of
mustard, nor would I treat them unjustly.  Rather would I consort with them
even as one of themselves, and I would be their witness.1
Ḥájí Mírzá Áqásí
The Ba b specifically condemns the actions of H a jí  Mí rza  A qa sí ,2 Muh ammad
Sha h’s prime minister or grand vizier, whom Shoghi Effendi referred to as the
Anti-Christ of the Ba bí  Revelation due to his ferocious attacks on the Ba b and His
followers.  For example, he was responsible for the imprisonment of the Ba b in
the castle of Ma h-Ku  and, later, in the castle of Chihrí q (see chapter 6).
While in Chihrí q, the Ba b wrote to Muh ammad Sha h about H a jí  Mí rza  A qa sí :
Dost thou imagine him whom thou hast appointed Chancellor in thy kingdom
to be the best leader and the best supporter?  Nay, I swear by thy Lord.  He
will bring thee into grievous trouble by reason of that which Satan instilleth
in his heart, and verily, he himself is Satan.  He comprehendeth not a single
letter from the Book of God and is seized with fear by reason of that which
his hands have wrought.  Fain would he extinguish the light which thy Lord
hath kindled, so that the old impiety which is concealed in his inner being
may not be revealed.  Hadst thou not appointed him as thy Chancellor no one
would have paid him the slightest attention.  Indeed in the estimation of the
people he is naught but manifest darkness.3
H a jí  Mí rza  A qa sí  had a pernicious influence on the monarch and therefore the
Ba b directed to him a warning with these condemnatory remarks:
O minister of the King! be fearful of God, for there is no God except He who is
the Truth, the Just.  Withdraw your soul from the King.  Verily, I am the one
who has inherited the earth, and whatsoever is upon it by the leave of God
the Wise.4
O Minister of the Sháh!  Fear thou God, besides Whom there is none other God
but Him, the Sovereign Truth, the Just, and lay aside thy dominion, for We, by
the leave of God, the All-Wise, inherit the earth and all who are upon it, and
He shall rightfully be a witness unto thee and unto the Sháh.  Were ye to obey
the Remembrance of God with absolute sincerity, We guarantee, by the leave
of God, that on the Day of Resurrection, a vast dominion shall be yours in His
eternal Paradise.  Vain indeed is your dominion, for God hath set aside

The Ba b, Selections, p. 26.
Hasan Balyuzi, The Báb, p. 6.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 25–26.
The Ba b in Abbas Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal, p. 204.

8.  The Ba b’s universal declaration

earthly possessions for such as have denied Him; for unto Him Who is your
Lord shall be the most excellent abode, He Who is, in truth, the Ancient of
Days ….1
‘Abdu’l-Majid and Najíb Páshá
Similar condemnatory remarks were addressed to ‘Abdu’l-Majid who reigned
as Sult a n of the Ottoman Empire between 1839 and 1861.  The Ba b also wrote an
Epistle to Nají b Pa sha , the governor of Baghda d.2  From the Epistle to the Sult a n,
we read:
Read the Book of your Lord, O Majid, through the command of your Lord in
the preserved Book.  Know that God has knowledge of all things in the
heavens and on earth, and that you are, on account of the verdict passed on
the messenger,3 the lord of great oppression.  Fear God, O man, for today no
place is there for anyone to flee to except that he believes in the signs of your
Lord and is accounted among those who prostrate [before Him].’4
O man, Thou hast followed Satan regarding the verdict to imprison the
messenger of the Remembrance.  Fear God after you have read a single
wondrous letter from Our Book.  Do not repudiate the command of God and
send the messenger in accordance with the command We have send down in
the Book addressed to you ….  You are not aware of the decree of the
caliphate.  The messenger is a weak servant in those lands.  Yet know full well
that it is We that sent him ….  Know God’s decree and send him after [you
have read] this Book. …  Follow God’s command, O Majid, and not your idle
imaginings that lead you astray from the path of God.5
Sovereigns
A number of calls to the kings and their offspring are made in the Qayyu mu’l-
Asma .  As Stephen Lambden wrote:  “Such statements most clearly illustrate the
universalism or globalism of the Ba b at the very onset of his mission.”6  For
example, in the following passage the kings from East and West are summoned
to accept His Faith:
Fear ye God, O concourse of kings, lest ye remain afar from Him Who is His
Remembrance [the Báb], after the Truth hath come unto you with a Book

The Ba b, Selections, pp. 41–43.
The epistles to the Sult a n and to the Governor of Baghda d may not have reached them.
See Alkan Necati, Dissent and Heterodoxy, p. 52).
A reference to Mulla  ʻAlí -i-Basta mí  who was sent by the Ba b to teach the Faith to a high
Muslim cleric in Iraq.  Upon his arrival he was trialled on the charges of heresy and
sent to forced labour in Istanbul where he died in 1846.  Mulla  ʻAlí -i-Basta mí  was the
second Letter of the Living and is considered the first Ba bí  martyr.
The Ba b in Alkan Necati, Dissent and Heterodoxy, p. 53.
The Ba b in Alkan Necati, Dissent and Heterodoxy, p. 54.
Stephen Lambden, “The Messianic Roots”, p. 23.

Dispensation of the Ba b
and signs from God, as spoken through the wondrous tongue of Him Who is
His Remembrance.  Seek ye grace from God, for God hath ordained for you,
after ye have believed in Him, a Garden the vastness of which is as the
vastness of the whole of Paradise.  Therein ye shall find naught save the gifts
and favors which the Almighty hath graciously bestowed by virtue of this
momentous Cause, as decreed in the Mother Book.1
“O concourse of kings and of the sons of kings!” the Ba b likewise advises in the
same book, “Lay aside, one and all, your dominion which belongeth unto God ….”2
In addition, they are given the important mission to take the teachings of the Ba b
to new lands:
O concourse of kings!  Deliver with truth and in all haste the verses sent down
by Us to the peoples of Turkey and of India, and beyond them, with power
and with truth, to lands in both the East and the West ….3
In the Dala ’il-i-Sab‘ih (“The Seven Proofs”) particular mention is also made of
seven influential Islamic monarchs who had not heard about the Faith of the Ba b:
Gracious God!  Within the domains of Islám there are at present seven
powerful sovereigns ruling the world.  None of them hath been informed of
His [the Báb] Manifestation, and if informed, none hath believed in Him.
Who knoweth, they may leave this world below full of desire, and without
having realized that the thing for which they were waiting had come to
pass.4
About the character of Christian kings, the Ba b commented:
They awaited the coming of the Prophet of God [Muḥammad], and when He
did appear, they failed to recognize Him.  Behold how great are the sums
which these sovereigns expend without even the slightest thought of
appointing an official charged with the task of acquainting them in their own
realms with the Manifestation of God!  They would thereby have fulfilled the
purpose for which they have been created.  All their desires have been and
are still fixed upon leaving behind them traces of their names.5
Persian religious leaders
The Shí ‘a6 clerics are condemned by the Ba b:

The Ba b, Selections, p. 63.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 41.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 63.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 117.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 117.
The predominant branch of Islam in Iran.

8.  The Ba b’s universal declaration

O concourse of Shí‘ihs!  Fear ye God and Our Cause which concerneth Him
Who is the Most Great Remembrance of God.  For great is its fire, as decreed
in the Mother Book.1
O concourse of divines!  Fear God from this day onwards in the views ye
advance, for He Who is Our Remembrance in your midst, and Who cometh
from Us, is, in very truth, the Judge and Witness.  Turn away from that which
ye lay hold of and which the Book of God, the True One, hath not sanctioned,
for on the Day of Resurrection ye shall, upon the Bridge, be, in very truth, held
answerable for the position ye occupied.2
In all His Tablets, God hath verily ordained vain imaginings and conjecture
to be a manifest sin … God verily hath made it unlawful for you to pronounce,
in clear defiance of truth, any injunction or to exercise any legal judgment
while bereft of the absolute knowledge of this Book.3
O Concourse of the Learned!  Ye have been forbidden after [the revelation
of] this Book to teach anything other than it.  Acquaint the people with the
prescriptions (aḥkám) of the Book and turn away from the obsolete (báṭil)
writings that are spread amongst you ….4
Religious leaders
The clergy of all religions are reprimanded by the Ba b:
O concourse of the people of the Book!  Fear ye God and pride not yourselves
in your learning … He Who is the Eternal Truth beareth me witness, whoso
followeth this Book hath indeed followed all the past Scriptures which have
been sent down from heaven by God, the Sovereign Truth.  Verily, He is well
informed of what ye do.… Such as are the true followers of Islám would say:
“O Lord our God!  We have hearkened to the call of Thy Remembrance and
obeyed Him.  Forgive us our sins.  Thou art, verily, the Eternal Truth, and
unto Thee, our infallible Retreat, must we all return.”5
Muslims
To the Muslim world, the Ba b identified the Qur’a n with His own revelation:
O ye concourse of the believers!  Utter not words of denial against Me once
the Truth is made manifest, for indeed the mandate of the Báb hath
befittingly been proclaimed unto you in the Qur’án aforetime.  I swear by
your Lord, this Book is verily the same Qur’án which was sent down in the
past.6

The Ba b , Selections, p. 55.
The Ba b , Selections, p. 44.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 137.
The Ba b in Eschraghi, “Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy”, p. 237.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 44.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 67.

Dispensation of the Ba b
People of the West
The Ba b summoned, in the Qayyu mu’l-Asma ’, the people of the West to aid His
Cause:
Issue forth from your cities, O peoples of the West and aid God ere the Day
when the Lord of mercy shall come down unto you in the shadow of the
clouds with the angels circling around Him, exalting His praise and seeking
forgiveness for such as have truly believed in Our signs.  Verily His decree
hath been issued, and the command of God, as given in the Mother Book, hath
indeed been revealed ….1
Mankind
The Ba b addresses specific passages, mostly in the Qayyu mu’l-Asma , to the
inhabitants of the Earth.  For instance, the Ba b identifies Himself with the
Sovereign Truth of God:
O people of the Kingdom! …  I swear by your true Lord, by Him Who is the
Lord of the heavens and of the earth, that the divine Promise concerning His
Remembrance is naught but the sovereign truth and, as decreed in the
Mother Book, it shall come to pass ….2
O peoples of the earth!  Verily the true God calleth saying:  He Who is the
Remembrance is indeed the sovereign Truth from God, and naught
remaineth beyond truth but error, and naught is there beyond error save fire,
irrevocably ordained ….3
The Ba b declares Himself a Proof for both the East and the West:
O peoples of the earth! …  This divinely inspired Book hath firmly established
His Proof for all those who are in the East and in the West, hence beware lest
ye utter aught but the truth regarding God, for I swear by your Lord that this
supreme Proof of Mine beareth witness unto all things ….4
Similarly, the Ba b makes a call to mankind to accept His revelation:
O people of the earth!  Whoso obeyeth the Remembrance of God and His Book
hath in truth obeyed God and His chosen ones and he will, in the life to come,
be reckoned in the presence of God among the inmates of the Paradise of His
good-pleasure.5

The Ba b, Selections, p. 56.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 58.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 66.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 60.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 43.

8.  The Ba b’s universal declaration

O peoples of the earth!  Cleave ye tenaciously to the Cord of the All-Highest
God, which is but this Arabian Youth, Our Remembrance—He Who standeth
concealed at the point of ice amidst the ocean of fire.1
O people of the Throne!  Incline your ears unto My voice, calling unto you
from this Yellow Leaf, burgeoning from the Green Branch that hath risen
from out of the Snow-White Tree, and brought forth, by the leave of God,
within the depths of the Seventh Sea, around the Point of Fire, that:  Verily, I
am God, there is none other God but Me.2
The Ba b exhorts the people of the world to embrace His Cause and not to
follow the promptings of the previous generations:
O peoples of the earth!  I swear by your Lord!  Ye shall act as former
generations have acted.  Warn ye, then, yourselves of the terrible, the most
grievous vengeance of God.  For God is, verily, potent over all things.3
Say, O peoples of the world!  Do ye dispute with Me about God by virtue of the
names which ye and your fathers have adopted for Him at the promptings of
the Evil One?  God hath indeed sent down this Book unto Me with truth that
ye may be enabled to recognize the true names of God, inasmuch as ye have
strayed in error far from the Truth.4
Likewise, the Ba b promises that God will forgive all sins except that of
disbelief:
O children of men!  If ye believe in the one True God, follow Me, this Most
Great Remembrance of God sent forth by your Lord, that He may graciously
forgive you your sins.  Verily He is forgiving and compassionate toward the
concourse of the faithful.5
O peoples of the earth!  Bear ye allegiance unto this resplendent light
wherewith God hath graciously invested Me through the power of infallible
Truth, and walk not in the footsteps of the Evil One, inasmuch as he
prompteth you to disbelieve in God, your Lord, and verily God will not forgive
disbelief in Himself, though He will forgive other sins to whomsoever He
pleaseth.  Indeed His knowledge embraceth all things ….6
The Ba b assures all people that any act done in the service of the Cause of God
will always be remembered:

The Ba b, Selections, p. 54.
The “Yellow Leaf”, “Green Branch” and the “Snow-White Tree” are allegories referring
to Moses’ prophetic station and His divine Call (Exodus 3:1 ff, 4:6–7).  See also the Ba b
in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 137.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 72.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 65.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 45.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 48.

Dispensation of the Ba b
O peoples of the world!  Whatsoever ye have offered up in the way of the One
True God, ye shall indeed find preserved by God, the Preserver, intact at God’s
Holy Gate ….1

The Ba b’s epistles, written as an independent Manifestation of God, are
addressed to the most powerful monarchs and dignitaries of both East and West
at that time as well as to the peoples of the world.  The Writings of the Ba b reveal
His spiritual sovereignty, the universal scope of His Cause, and His vision for
humanity.
The epistles of the Ba b were phrased in an imposing and commanding
language.  In particular, the message to Muh ammad Sha h contained a strong call
summoning him to obey the Voice of God to humanity, which was none other than
the Word of the Ba b.  The passages of this powerful summons, which were
revealed in the Qayyu mu’l-Asma ’, were of such majesty and severity that when,
on one occasion, a copy of this document fell into the hands of a governor,2 the
latter immediately and publicly denounced the Ba b for treating his sovereign so
irreverently.


The Ba b, Selections, p. 48.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 146.



Opposition to the Faith of the Báb
On the basis of the principle of God’s progressive revelation, the Ba b
challenged the idea of prophetic finality that is embedded in most religious
systems.  Having misinterpreted the prophecies in their sacred scriptures of a
future “Messiah”, a “Second Coming” or a returning “Avatar”; all believers—be
they Hindus, Jews, Buddhists, Zoroastrians, Christians or Muslims—believe that
their respective religions will be restored to their former glory, rather than
superseded.
The declaration of the Ba b as a new Manifestation of God infuriated many
Muslims who considered Muh ammad as the final Prophet.  The Ba b, therefore,
attracted fierce hostility, particularly from the Muslim ‘ulama ’.  During the six
years of His ministry, the Ba b and His followers were subjected to much suffering
and tribulation.  Many of the Writings of the Ba b reflect His grief but also His
resolve to pursue His mission to its ultimate victory:
O Qurratu’l-‘Ayn!1  Persevere steadfastly as Thou art bidden and let not the
faithless amongst men nor their utterances grieve Thee, since Thy Lord shall,
by the righteousness of God, the Most Great, pass judgment upon them on the
Day of Resurrection, and surely God witnesseth all things.2
Though the ocean of woe rageth on every side, and the bolts of fate follow in
quick succession, and the darkness of griefs and afflictions invade soul and
body, yet is my heart brightened by the remembrance of Thy countenance
and my soul is as a rose-garden from the perfume of Thy nature.3
This chapter discusses the nature of the opposition encountered by the Faith
of the Ba b.  The following themes are covered in this chapter:
•
Persecution of the believers
•
Excuses for rejecting the Ba b
•
Persecution of the Ba b by Muslims
•
Principle of finality in Islam
•
Divine assistance promised to the believers during persecutions
Persecution of believers
Shoghi Effendi wrote that the persecutions of the Ba b, endured with “calm and
heroic fortitude”,4 were more intense than those sustained by Jesus Christ,
because while Jesus was attacked by the rabbinic establishment, the Ba b was

Qurratu’l-‘Ayn (“Solace of the Eyes”) is one of the titles of the Ba b.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 71.
The Ba b in Browne, A Traveller’s Narrative, p. 18.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 196.

Dispensation of the Ba b
besieged by the combined forces of the religious authorities and the government
“which, from the moment of His declaration to the hour of His death, persisted,
unitedly and by every means at their disposal, in conspiring against the upholders
[“of a much hated creed”1] and in vilifying the tenets of His Revelation.”2
In relation to these distresses, the Ba b affirms, “… behold what calumnies are
uttered, so unseemly that the pen is stricken with shame at the mention of them.”3
“How profuse the blood,” the Ba b addresses God, “that hath been shed for the sake
of Thy Faith to vindicate the authenticity of Thy divine Mission and to celebrate Thy
praise!  How vast the possessions that were wrongfully seized in the Path of Thy love
in order to affirm the loftiness of Thy sanctity and to extol Thy glorious Name!”4
“Great is the blessedness of those”, observes the Ba b referring to the thousands
of martyrs in His ministry, “whose blood Thou hast chosen wherewith to water the
Tree of Thine affirmation, and thus to exalt Thy holy and immutable Word.”5
Referring to the wisdom behind those tragedies, He writes:
These decrees were ordained by Thee so that all created things might bear
witness that they have been brought into being for the sake of naught else
but Thee.  Thou hast withheld from them the things that bring tranquillity to
their hearts, that they might know of a certainty that whatever is associated
with Thy holy Being is far superior to and exalted above aught else that
would satisfy them; inasmuch as Thine indomitable power pervadeth all
things, and nothing can ever frustrate it.  Indeed Thou hast caused these
momentous happenings to come to pass that those who are endued with
perception may readily recognize that they were ordained by Thee to
demonstrate the loftiness of Thy divine Unity and to affirm the exaltation of
Thy sanctity.6
Many of the Ba bí  martyrs came from a modest background.  Once the Ba b said:
“Through the poor and lowly of this land, by the blood which these shall have shed
in His path, will the omnipotent Sovereign ensure the preservation and consolidate
the foundation of His Cause.”7  The meaning of “the abased will be exalted”
(Matthew 23:12) and “the last will be first” (Matthew 20:16) was epitomized in the
person of the “sifter of wheat”, who embraced the Cause of the Ba b in Is faha n.  By
all accounts, he was a simple man who eventually gave his life in the path of the
Ba b as portrayed in the Persian Baya n:
Iṣfáhán, that outstanding city, is distinguished by the religious fervour of its
shí‘ah inhabitants, by the learning of its divines, and by the keen expectation,

Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 36.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 57.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 97.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 188.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 190.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 189.
The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 213.

9.  Opposition to the Faith of the Ba b

shared by high and low alike, of the imminent coming of the Ṣáḥibu’z-
Zamán.1  In every quarter of that city, religious institutions have been
established.  And yet, when the Messenger of God had been made manifest,
they who claimed to be the repositories of learning and the expounders of
the mysteries of the Faith of God rejected His Message.  Of all the inhabitants
of that seat of learning, only one person, a sifter of wheat, was found to
recognise the Truth, and was invested with the robe of Divine virtue!2
Excuses for rejecting the Báb
Some of the reasons advanced for rejecting the Ba b pertain to His physical
characteristics while others reflect various misconceptions about spiritual
reality, all of which are “veils” impeding people from recognizing the Truth.  The
word “veil” occurs in the Writings of the Ba b in such sentences as “Were I to
remove the veil, all would recognize Me as their Best Beloved”3 or “Erelong the veil
shall be lifted from your eyes at the appointed time.”4
Some of those who rejected the Ba b challenged His claim on the basis of His
age, “How can He speak of God while in truth His age is no more than twenty-five?”5
Others criticised His unconventional use of Arabic grammar.  To the latter He
responded:
The Qur’án itself does in no wise accord with the rules and conventions
current amongst men.  The Word of God can never be subject to the
limitations of His creatures.  Nay, the rules and canons which men have
adopted have been deduced from the text of the Word of God and are based
upon it.  These men have, in the very texts of that holy Book, discovered no
less than three hundred instances of grammatical error, such as the one you
now criticise.  Inasmuch as it was the Word of God, they had no other
alternative except to resign themselves to His will.6
Some “veils” noted by the Ba b are readily recognized.  For example, the
presumption of knowledge can lead to rejection:
How often the most insignificant of men have acknowledged the truth, while
the most learned have remained wrapt in veils.  Thus in every Dispensation
a number of souls enter the fire by reason of their following in the footsteps
of others.7

Ṣáḥibu’z-Zamán (“Lord of the Age”) is one of prophetic titles of the Ba b.
The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 99.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 15.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 46.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 47.
The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 318–319.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 90–91.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Let not names shut you out as by a veil from Him Who is their Lord, is the
Báb’s advice, even the name of Prophet, for such a name is but a creation of
His utterance.1
Further, the Ba b admonishes those who consider themselves as pious:
Some of the people of the city have declared:  ‘We are the helpers of God,’ but
when this Remembrance came suddenly upon them, they turned aside from
helping Us.2
Blind adherence to religious rituals was yet another barrier in recognizing
the Ba b:
Likewise consider the manifestation of the Point of the Bayán.  There are
people who every night until morning busy themselves with the worship of
God, and even at present when the Daystar of Truth is nearing its zenith in
the heaven of its Revelation, they have not yet left their prayer rugs.  If
anyone of them ever heard the wondrous verses of God recited unto him, he
would exclaim:  “Why dost thou keep me back from offering my prayers?3
Twelve hundred and seventy years have elapsed since the declaration of
Muḥammad, and each year unnumbered people have circumambulated the
House of God [Mecca].  In the concluding year of this period He Who is
Himself the Founder of the House [The Báb] went on pilgrimage.  Great God!
There was a vast concourse of pilgrims from every sect.  Yet not one
recognized Him, though He recognized every one of them—souls tightly held
in the grasp of His former commandment.4
The Ba b also observes that religious leaders were instrumental in the
rejection of Him by the masses.  Addressing ‘Abdu’s -S a h ib, a high-level priest, the
Ba b remarked:
Thou hast set thyself up as one of the learned in the Faith of Islám, that thou
mightest save the believers, yet thou didst cause thy followers to descend into
the fire, for when the verses of God were sent forth thou didst deprive thyself
therefrom and yet reckoned thyself to be of the righteous ….5
To this same divine, the Ba b issued a reproach for his failure to use his
leadership to lead his followers to the new Revelation:
Therefore unto thee shall be assigned the fire which was meant for those who
turned away from God in that land, inasmuch as thou art their leader; would
that thou might be of them who heed.  Hadst thou faithfully obeyed the
Decree of God, all the inhabitants of thy land would have followed thee, and

The Ba b in Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 172.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 45.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 80.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 89–90.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 32.

9.  Opposition to the Faith of the Ba b

would have themselves entered into the celestial Paradise, content with the
good-pleasure of God forevermore.1
Arrogance, selfish desires, ignorance and disdain contributed to the
spiritual blindness of many:
Ye may contend:  “How doth He speak on our behalf?”  Have ye not perused
the unseemly words ye uttered in the past, as reflected in the text of My Book,
and still ye feel not ashamed?2
Say, how dare ye flagrantly deny the verses sent down from the heaven of
justice, yet ye read the Books of God revealed in the past?  How do ye
repudiate the meeting with your Lord which was appointed with you
aforetime, and fail in this Day to heed His warning?  Indeed, by adhering to
forms and by following the promptings of your selfish desires, ye have
deprived yourselves of the good-pleasure of your Lord …,3
Today, however, when only belief in this Faith truly profiteth you, ye have
debarred yourselves therefrom by reason of the things which are
disadvantageous unto you and will inflict harm upon you ….4
Rejection was also defended on the pretext of a perceived lack of proof.
People asked, “How can we recognize Him when we have heard naught but words
which fall short of irrefutable proofs?”5  Some people even requested that He alter
the verses of God:
When the verses of this Book are recited to the infidels they say:  “Give us a
book like the Qur’án and make changes in the verses.”  Say:  “God hath not
given Me that I should change them at My pleasure.”  I follow only what is
revealed unto Me.6
Some individuals refused to accept the Ba b because of the small size of the
Bábí community in its first years:  “Nevertheless, when the people realized that
fellow supporters were not forthcoming, they hesitated to accept it [the Qayyu mu’l-
Asma ’].7  Some disregarded His teachings despite the public acceptance by some
prominent citizens:
Were all the peoples of the world to testify unto a thing and were He to testify
unto another, His testimony will be regarded as God’s testimony, while aught
else but Him hath been and will ever be as naught; for it is through His might
that a thing assumeth existence.  Consider the extent of the adherence of
these people to matters of faith.  When dealing with their own affairs they

The Ba b, Selections, p. 32.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 87–88.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 162.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 88.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 33.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 66.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 90.

Dispensation of the Ba b
are well content with the testimony of two just witnesses, and yet despite the
testimony of so many righteous men they hesitate to believe in Him Who is
the Bearer of the divine Truth.1
The Ba b reproaches those who argue that they could not understand the
Baya n.  They ask, “We are unable to comprehend the eloquence of the verses in the
Bayán, how can we regard it as a testimony?”2  In turn, the Ba b poses a question,
“What is there in the Bayán which keepeth thee back from recognizing these verses
as being sent forth by God, the Inaccessible, the Most Exalted, the All-Glorious?”3
Persecution of the Báb by Muslims
The Ba b wrote that persecution of Him by the Islamic clergy was based on
ignorance:
As to those who have debarred themselves from the Revelation of God, they
have indeed failed to understand the significance of a single letter of the
Qur’án, nor have they obtained the slightest notion of the Faith of Islám,
otherwise they would not have turned away from God … thinking that they
are doing righteous work for the sake of God.4
Belief in the concept of finality in Islam
The followers of most of the previous belief systems claim the finality of their
religions.  A controversial interpretation of a verse from the Qur’a n is used by
Muslim theologians to say that, after Muh ammad, there will be no more
Messengers of God:  “Muh ammad is not the father of any of your men, but the
Messenger of God and the seal of the Prophets” (33:40).  Apart from being a
reference to finality, the word Seal can also mean the official validation of a
document.  This meaning can be relevant in understanding the above verse of the
Qur’án, as the validation of the previous Prophets and their revelations.5  Crucial
to understanding this verse is the definition of the word Prophet.  Seal of the
Prophets signifies the end of the prophetic cycle initiated by Adam and the
beginning of the cycle of fulfilment initiated by the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h.  The Ba b
and Baha ’u’lla h, then, are not Prophets but Manifestations of the fulfilment of all
previous prophecies.6  ‘Abdu’l-Baha  explained:
The Supreme Báb was the promised one of the Koran, with regard to the
question of the Seal of the Prophets.  Mohammed was known as the Seal of
the Prophets.  (The Mohammedans think this title means that no prophet will
appear after Mohammed.)  This belief is not only limited to the Moslems.  The

The Ba b, Selections, p. 121.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 120.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 31.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 140.
For a more detailed analysis of these topics, see chapter 21 of Ayers & Woz niak,
Studying the Holy Qur’án, vol. 6.
See Vahid Rafati, “The Development of Shaykhí  Thought in Shi‘i Islam”, p. 106.

9.  Opposition to the Faith of the Ba b

Jews believed that Moses was the Seal of the Prophets, that he sealed the
prophethood of Laws.  The Christians believe that after Christ, no prophet
with Laws will come, but that Christ himself will descend from heaven.1
If the word Seal is taken to mean the Final or Last, then, according to Baha ’í
teachings, all the Prophets are simultaneously the First and the Last,2 the Alpha
being the Omega of which John the Apostle spoke.3  It is in this context that the
Ba b addresses a high ranking Muslim divine:
Thy vision is obscured by the belief that divine revelation ended with the
coming of Muḥammad, and unto this We have borne witness in Our first
epistle.  Indeed, He Who hath revealed verses unto Muḥammad, the Apostle
of God, hath likewise revealed verses unto ‘Alí-Muḥammad [The Báb].4
In light of the reality that all Prophets are the expression of the Primal Will,
therefore all are the First and the Last at the same time.  Baha ’u’lla h explains this
principle in the Kita b-i-I qa n:
Notwithstanding the obviousness of this theme, in the eyes of those that have
quaffed the wine of knowledge and certitude, yet how many are those who,
through failure to understand its meaning, have allowed the term “Seal of
the Prophets” to obscure their understanding, and deprive them of the grace
of all His manifold bounties!  Hath not Muḥammad, Himself, declared:  “I am
all the Prophets?”  Hath He not said as We have already mentioned:  “I am
Adam, Noah, Moses, and Jesus?”  Why should Muḥammad, that immortal
Beauty, Who hath said:  “I am the first Adam” be incapable of saying also:  “I
am the last Adam”?  For even as He regarded Himself to be the “First of the
Prophets”—that is Adam—in like manner, the “Seal of the Prophets” is also
applicable unto that Divine Beauty.  It is admittedly obvious that being the
“First of the Prophets,” He likewise is their “Seal.”5
Divine assistance promised during persecutions
In numerous passages, the Ba b prayed for the ultimate success of the Cause
of God in these or similar terms:
O Lord!  Assist those who have renounced all else but Thee, and grant them
a mighty victory.  Send down upon them, O Lord, the concourse of the angels
in heaven and earth and all that is between, to aid Thy servants, to succor
and strengthen them, to enable them to achieve success, to sustain them, to
invest them with glory, to confer upon them honor and exaltation, to enrich
them and to make them triumphant with a wondrous triumph.
Thou art their Lord, the Lord of the heavens and the earth, the Lord of all the
worlds.  Strengthen this Faith, O Lord, through the power of these servants

‘Abdu’l-Baha  in Star of the West, IX:10, 8 September 1918, p. 111.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 161.
Revelations 1:8.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 31.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, p. 161.

Dispensation of the Ba b
and cause them to prevail over all the peoples of the world; for they, of a
truth, are Thy servants who have detached themselves from aught else but
Thee, and Thou verily art the protector of true believers.
Grant Thou, O Lord, that their hearts may, through allegiance to this, Thine
inviolable Faith, grow stronger than anything else in the heavens and on
earth and in whatsoever is between them; and strengthen, O Lord, their
hands with the tokens of Thy wondrous power that they may manifest Thy
power before the gaze of all mankind.1
Likewise, there are wonderful passages in His Writings where the Ba b
assuredly confirms the final triumph of the Cause of God:
Say, God hath undisputed triumph over every victorious one.  There is no one
in heaven or earth or in whatever lieth between them who can frustrate the
transcendent supremacy of His triumph.2
In the Name of God, the Victor of the most victorious, proclaim:  ‘God will help
all those who arise to serve Him!  No one is able to deprive Him of His Majesty,
His Dominion, His Sovereignty for in the heaven and the earth and in all the
realms of God He is the Victorious and the Conqueror.’3
The day of victory is not far away:
Erelong God will bestow upon Thee rulership over all men, inasmuch as His
rule transcendeth the whole of creation.4
The Day is approaching when God will render the hosts of Truth victorious,
and He will purge the whole earth in such wise that within the compass of
His knowledge not a single soul shall remain unless he truly believeth in God,
worshippeth none other God but Him, boweth down by day and by night in
His adoration, and is reckoned among such as are well assured.5
To those believers who sought the crown of martyrdom, the Ba b wrote:
O My servants!  Seek ye earnestly this highest reward, as I have indeed
created for the Remembrance of God gardens which remain inscrutable to
anyone save Myself, and naught therein hath been made lawful unto anyone
except those whose lives have been sacrificed in His Path.  Hence beseech ye
God, the Most Exalted, that He may grant you this meritorious reward, and
He is in truth the Most High, the Most Great.6
Finally, there are the words of the Ba b addressed to the multitude gathered to
witness His martyrdom in the main square of Tabrí z on 9 July 1850:

The Ba b, Selections, pp. 192–193.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 164.
The Ba b in Star of the West, 10:1, 21 March 1919, p. 6.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 55.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 153–154.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 67.

9.  Opposition to the Faith of the Ba b

“Had you believed in Me, O wayward generation, every one of you would have
followed the example of this youth [Anís],1 who stood in rank above most of
you, and willingly would have sacrificed himself in My path.  The day will
come when you will have recognised Me; that day I shall have ceased to be
with you.”2
The Ba b made clear His belief that His Faith would eventually be accepted all
over the world (Persian Baya n, 5:4).  In this regard, Shoghi Effendi affirmed:
In the ‘Bayán’ the Báb says that every religion of the past was fit to become
universal.  The only reason why they failed to attain that mark was the
incompetence of their followers.  He then proceeds to give a definite
promise that this would not be the fate of the revelation of ‘Him Whom God
would make manifest’, that it will become universal and include all the
people of the world.  This shows that we will ultimately succeed.3

Alas, just as light necessarily projects shadows in the physical world and
victory follows crisis, triumph was followed by persecutions.  During that
process, more than four thousand Ba bí s4 preferred to perish rather than
renounce their beliefs—a sorrowful aftermath that, nevertheless, substantiated
the spiritual force of the teachings of the Ba b.  Indeed, the Faith of the Ba b
continued to be victorious and to establish its ascendancy worldwide through the
Baha ’í  Faith.  “With every fresh tribulation,” Baha ’u’lla h wrote, explaining the
principle of crisis and victory, “He manifested a fuller measure of Thy Cause, and
exalted more highly Thy word.”5
The Ba b shone like a sun on a nation, which Shoghi Effendi described as “the
most decadent race in the civilized world, grossly ignorant, savage, cruel, steeped
in prejudice, servile in their submission to an almost deified hierarchy”6 amidst
whom the Ba b faced—defenceless but gallantly—the Shí ‘a priesthood, which was
“Fiercely fanatic, unspeakably corrupt, enjoying unlimited ascendancy over the
masses, jealous of their position, and irreconcilably opposed to all liberal ideas,”
an “arch-enemy who repudiated His claim, challenged His authority, persecuted
His Cause, succeeded in almost quenching His light.”7  The imprisonment, exile,
torture and martyrdom willingly suffered by the Ba b are a testimony to His
immense love and sacrifice for humanity, and further proof of the divinity of His
revelation.


Aní s was the youth who was executed with the Ba b in July 1850.
The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 114.
From a letter dated 20 February 1932 written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an
individual believer, cited in Helen Hornby, Lights of Guidance, p. 469.
Browne, A Traveller’s Narrative, p. 28.
Baha ’u’lla h, Prayers and Meditations, p. 37.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 4.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 4.











Part II:
The heavenly treasury of the Báb



Virtues, spiritual and mystical principles
The teachings of the Ba bí  Faith were characterized by its strong sense of
ethics and moral empowerment.  Evidence of this is its own version of the golden
rule, “Gaze upon others with the same eyes with which ye gaze upon your own
selves ….”1
The golden rule is a principle running through all religions.  Baha ’u’lla h said,
“Choose thou for thy neighbour that which thou choosest for thyself,”2 Muh ammad
stated, “None of you [truly] believes until he wishes for his brother what he
wishes for himself”,3 while Jesus exhorted “As ye would that men should do to
you, do ye also to them likewise.” (Luke 6:31)  Likewise, the Old Testament
exhorts, “Love your neighbour as yourself:  I am the Lord” ( Leviticus 19:18).
Similar statements are present in Buddhism, Hinduism and Zoroastrianism.4
This chapter presents selected passages from the Writings of the Ba b
pertaining to personal attributes, spiritual principles and mystical themes.  These
passages reveal the beauty of His teachings about the nobility of the human
being—a believer should be like a candle or an oil lamp5 that consumes itself to
provide light and warmth to others.  The Ba b wishes that all believers become
fountains of God’s light.6
Personal ethics
Being and doing
As for thine own self, it is thy duty to be pleased in thine inner heart with
thine outward action or expression.  The reverse is also thy duty.  Should
thine inner heart desire to pray at night, and thine outward action fail to
manifest its wish, then thou wouldst not be numbered amongst those who
are content with their inner heart.  Likewise, wert thou to desire for thine
outer expression one of the delightful favours of this earthly life, and thine

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 323.
Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 64.
an-Nawawí’s Forty Hadiths, No. 13.
Buddhism advocates, “Do not do unto others whatever is injurious to yourself”
(Shayast-na-Shayast 13.29); Hinduism encourages, “One should never do that to
another which one regards as injurious to one’s own self” (Brihaspati, Mahabharata
13.113.8); and Zoroastrianism recommends, “That nature only is good when it shall not
do unto another whatever is not good for its own self.” (Dadistan-i-Dinik 94:5)
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 8:6.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 180.

Dispensation of the Ba b
inner heart deny such a desire, thou wouldst not be recorded in the Book of
God amongst those who willingly resign themselves unto His Decree.1
Calmness
Let nothing cause thee to be sore shaken, neither let the things which have
been destined to take place in this Cause disturb thee.2
Cleanliness
God loveth those who are pure.  Naught in the Bayán and in the sight of God
is more loved than purity and immaculate cleanliness ….  He indeed desireth
that under all conditions, all may be adorned with such purity, both inwardly
and outwardly, that no repugnance may be caused even to themselves, how
much less unto others.3
Consideration
Be thou for God and for His creatures even as God hath been for God Himself
and for His creatures.4
Contentment
Be thou contented, in utter acquiescence and at all times, with the Decree of
thy Lord, first in thy soul, and then in thine outward manifestation.  Thou
wouldst attain the utmost state of contentment with the good pleasure of
God when thou art pleased with misery even as thou wouldst be with glory,
with poverty as with wealth, with exertion as with tranquility, and with
sorrow as with joy, in the states of thy soul and the outward condition that
God hath destined for thee.
Thus the state of contentment is also incumbent upon thee in thy relations
with people.5
Bestow upon me my portion, O Lord, as Thou pleasest, and cause me to be
satisfied with whatsoever Thou hast ordained for me.6
Discernment
Nay, by God, be thou neither a divine without discernment nor a follower
without discernment, for both of these shall perish on the Day of
Resurrection.  Rather it behooveth thee to be a discerning divine, or to walk
with insight in the way of God by obeying a true leader of religion.  In every
nation thou beholdest unnumbered spiritual leaders who are bereft of true
discernment, and among every people thou dost encounter myriads of

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 307.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 160.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 80.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 302.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 306.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 193.

10.  Virtues, spiritual and mystical principles

adherents who are devoid of the same characteristic.  Ponder for a while in
thy heart, have pity on thyself and turn not aside thine attention from proofs
and evidences.  However, seek not proofs and evidences after thine idle fancy;
but rather base thy proofs upon what God hath appointed.1
Faith
Whatever one gaineth in the life to come is but the fruit of this faith. Indeed
any man whose eye gazeth upon His Words with true faith well deserveth
Paradise; and one whose conscience beareth witness unto His Words with
true faith shall abide in Paradise and attain the presence of God; and one
whose tongue giveth utterance to His Words with true faith shall have his
abode in Paradise, wherein he will be seized with ecstasy in praise and
glorification of God, the Ever-Abiding, Whose revelations of glory never end
and the reviving breaths of Whose holiness never fail.2
And in the eyes of God and of the Possessors of knowledge, there is nothing
more glorious than to have faith, which is the most precious of all things, and
all bounties are under its shadows.3
Fear of God
For verily thou wouldst attain the summit of excellence in divine knowledge
when thou yearnest for naught but God, and fearest naught but thy
transgression.  Shouldst thou act according to this lofty path, thou verily
wouldst abide in security.4
Fear thou God, thy Lord, and make mention of His Name in the daytime and
at eventide.  Follow not the promptings of the faithless, lest thou be reckoned
among the exponents of idle fancies.  Faithfully obey the Primal Point Who is
the Lord Himself, and be of the righteous.5
Firmness
It is a further evidence of the greatness of this Cause that even Aẓím6 should
have felt so exceedingly troubled and shaken by its power and the immensity
of its claim ….  Rest assured, the grace of the Almighty shall enable you to
fortify the faint in heart and to make firm the step of the waverer.  So great
shall be your faith that should the enemy mutilate and tear your body to
pieces, in the hope of lessening by one jot or tittle the ardour of your love, he
would fail to attain his object.  You will, no doubt, in the days to come, meet

The Ba b, Selections, p. 124.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 99.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Logos and Civilization, p. 295.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 308.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 160.
Name of an early believer.

Dispensation of the Ba b
face to face Him who is the Lord of all the worlds, and will partake of the joy
of His presence.1
Forgiveness
… were all the people to wrong thee, thou wouldst forgive them and, indeed,
do good unto them, even as God, glorified be He, provideth, through His
grace, for those who have ungratefully repudiated Him.2
Good character
Wert thou even to conceive in thine heart, regarding any matter, other than
that which He hath ordained unto all men in the Book, thou wouldst fail to
reach, in the realm of good character and virtue, the lofty station of the
people who are faithful to the covenant.3
Happiness
God desireth not to see, in the Dispensation of the Bayán, any soul deprived
of joy and radiance ….4
Harmony
In the Bayán God hath forbidden everyone to pronounce judgment against
any soul, lest he may pass sentence upon God, his Lord, while regarding
himself to be of the righteous, inasmuch as no one knoweth how the Cause of
God will begin or end.5
Humility
… know thou that neither being a man of learning nor being a follower is in
itself a source of glory.  If thou art a man of learning, thy knowledge
becometh an honor, and if thou art a follower, thine adherence unto
leadership becometh an honor, only when these conform to the good-
pleasure of God.6
Joy and radiance
God desireth not to see, in the Dispensation of the Bayán, any soul deprived
of joy and radiance. He indeed desireth that under all conditions, all may be
adorned with such purity, both inwardly and outwardly, that no repugnance
may be caused even to themselves, how much less unto others.7

The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 313.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, “The Worldview of the Ba b”, p. 96.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 306.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 80.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 144.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 124.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 80.

10.  Virtues, spiritual and mystical principles

Kindness
Be lovingly watchful of one another and thus improve your affairs.  Should
ye find amongst you one who is afflicted with grief, remove his sorrow by any
means in your power, and should ye find one stricken with poverty, enrich
him to the extent of your ability.  If ye find in your midst one who is abased,
exalt him to the extent ye can, and if ye find one who is veiled by ignorance,
educate him to the degree of your capacity.  Should ye find amongst
yourselves one who is single, help him to marry, in accordance with the divine
law, to the limits of your ability, and should ye find one who is in distress,
bring him tranquility by any means in your power ….1
Kindness to animals
Should, at a stopping place, any hardship or pain be inflicted upon an animal,
the latter would beseech God to torment its owner.  It is always necessary to
consider the limits of the capacity of animals, in such wise that after the
entrance of its owner into the Bayán, it would not be forced to carry a load
unless it is less than the limits of its capacity, otherwise, the profit he may
gain thereby would be of no benefit to him.2
Moderation
Nothing is dearer to God than moderation.3
Obedience
Before those who bear witness to the unity of God, there is no paradise more
exalted than the very act of observing the ordinances of God.4
… Should a hundred thousand souls gather to circumambulate the House
[the Ka‘ba] and leave their homes for the day when permission for
circumambulating is given, and should on that very day the Tree of Truth
appear and command:  ‘Don’t circumambulate!’—should they all
immediately abide, they have reached [true] circumambulating.  However,
should they fail, all their deeds will become naught (Persian Bayán 8:2).5
Patience
Let not the deeds of those who reject the Truth shut you out as by a veil.  Such
people have warrant over your bodies only, and God hath not reposed in
them power over your spirits, your souls and your hearts.  Fear ye God that
haply it may be well with you.  All things have been created for your sakes,

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 323.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 325.  In the Baya n the Ba b advises not to
ride cows or use them for transportation.  See Ma‘ani & Ewing, Laws of the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas, p. 180.
The Ba b in Moojan Momen, Selections from the Writings, p. 326.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 312.
The Ba b in Armin Eschraghi, “Undermining the Foundations”, p. 227.

Dispensation of the Ba b
and for the sake of naught else hath your creation been ordained.  Fear ye
God and take heed lest forms and apparels debar you from recognizing Him.
Render ye thanksgiving unto God that perchance He may deal mercifully
with you.1
Perfection
No created thing shall ever attain its paradise unless it appeareth in its
highest degree of perfection.2
For, in this religion no other command is as rigorously enjoined as the duty
of refinement, and it is forbidden that one bring any object into being in a
state of imperfection when one hath the power to manifest it in full
perfection.
For example, should one build an edifice and fail to elevate it to the utmost
state of perfection possible for it, there would be no moment in the life of that
edifice when angels would not beseech God to torment him; nay, rather, all
the atoms of that edifice would do the same.  For each thing, within its own
station, yearneth to attain unto the utmost height of excellence in its own
level.  Thus, should a man who is capable not realize and respond to the
yearning of his capability, he will be held accountable therefore ….3
Personal speech
Withhold thy tongue from uttering that which might grieve thee and beseech
God for mercy.4
Piety
Whenever the faithful hear the verses of this Book being recited, their eyes
will overflow with tears and their hearts will be deeply touched by Him Who
is the Most Great Remembrance for the love they cherish for God, the All-
Praised.  He is God, the All-Knowing, the Eternal.  They are indeed the inmates
of the all-highest Paradise wherein they will abide forever.  Verily they will
see naught therein save that which hath proceeded from God, nothing that
will lie beyond the compass of their understanding.  There they will meet the
believers in Paradise, who will address them with the words “Peace, Peace”
lingering on their lips ….5
Purity
Purge your hearts of worldly desires, and let angelic virtues be your
adorning.  Strive that by your deeds you may bear witness to the truth of
these words of God ….  The days when idle worship was deemed sufficient are

The Ba b, Selections, pp. 161–162.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 315.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, pp. 317.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 162.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 62–63.

10.  Virtues, spiritual and mystical principles

ended.  The time is come when naught but the purest motive, supported by
deeds of stainless purity, can ascend to the throne of the Most High and be
acceptable unto Him.1
Nothing is more beloved before God than to keep water in a state of the
utmost purity, to such an extent that if a believer should become aware that
the glass of water he holdeth in his hand hath passed through any impure
parts of the earth, he would be grieved.2
Refinement
Whosoever is adorned with the virtues of God, glorified and exalted be He,
must make use of perfumes, and inhale sweet-smelling substances such as
clove or other creations of God, the Exalted, the Mighty.  Verily God shall
sustain such a soul in the station of truth through His name, the Ever-Living.3
Righteousness
Strive earnestly for the sake of God and walk in the path of righteousness.
Shouldst thou encounter the unbelievers, place thy whole trust in God, thy
Lord, saying, Sufficient is God unto me in the kingdoms of both this world and
the next.  The Day is approaching when God shall bring the faithful together.
In truth no God is there other than Him… May the peace of God be with those
who have been guided aright through the power of divine guidance.4
Servitude
Behold thou that, verily, all things are contained within the treasuries of God.
Verily, God, glorified be lie, shall never accept from anyone a gift that existeth
in the treasuries of His dominion.  Present then unto God that which hath
never existed in the treasuries of His majesty, which is naught but
powerlessness and its modes.  God verily accepteth the deeds of all things
through such a gift.5
Steadfastness
O people of the Kingdom!  By the righteousness of the true God, if ye remain
steadfast upon this line which standeth upright between the two lines,6 ye
shall, in very truth, quaff the living waters from the Fountain of this
wondrous Revelation as proffered by the hand of His Remembrance ….

The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 93.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, pp. 315–316.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 79.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 160.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 304.
A reference to the shape of the Arabic letters for the word Báb (باب).

Dispensation of the Ba b
Trust in God
O Lord!  Unto Thee I repair for refuge and toward all Thy signs I set my heart.
O Lord!  Whether traveling or at home, and in my occupation or in my work,
I place my whole trust in Thee. Grant me then Thy sufficing help so as to make
me independent of all things, O Thou Who art unsurpassed in Thy mercy!
Bestow upon me my portion, O Lord, as Thou pleases, and cause me to be
satisfied with whatsoever Thou hast ordained for me.  Thine is the absolute
authority to command.1
Worship
Fire and paradise both bow down and prostrate themselves before God.  That
which is worthy of His Essence is to worship Him for His sake, without fear of
fire, or hope of paradise.
Although when true worship is offered, the worshipper is delivered from the
fire, and entereth the paradise of God’s good-pleasure, yet such should not be
the motive of his act.  However, God’s favor and grace ever flow in accordance
with the exigencies of His inscrutable wisdom.2
Spiritual principles and mystical themes
About God
Hallowed be the Lord in Whose hand is the source of dominion.  He createth
whatsoever He willeth by His Word of command ‘Be’, and it is.  His hath been
the power of authority heretofore and it shall remain His hereafter.  He
maketh victorious whomsoever He pleaseth, through the potency of His
behest.  He is in truth the Powerful, the Almighty.  Unto Him pertaineth all
glory and majesty in the kingdoms of Revelation and Creation and whatever
lieth between them.  Verily He is the Potent, the All-Glorious.  From
everlasting He hath been the Source of indomitable strength and shall
remain so unto everlasting.  He is indeed the Lord of might and power.  All
the kingdoms of heaven and earth and whatever is between them are God’s,
and His power is supreme over all things.  All the treasures of earth and
heaven and everything between them are His, and His protection extendeth
over all things.  He is the Creator of the heavens and the earth and whatever
lieth between them and He truly is a witness over all things.  He is the Lord
of Reckoning for all that dwell in the heavens and on earth and whatever
lieth between them, and truly God is swift to reckon.  He setteth the measure
assigned to all who are in the heavens and the earth and whatever is between
them.  Verily He is the Supreme Protector.  He holdeth in His grasp the keys
of heaven and earth and of everything between them.  At His Own pleasure
doth He bestow gifts, through the power of His command.  Indeed His grace
encompasseth all and He is the All-Knowing.3

The Ba b, Selections, p. 193.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 77–78.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 171.

10.  Virtues, spiritual and mystical principles

Acceptance of deeds depend on God
Thy purpose in performing thy deeds is that God may graciously accept them;
and divine acceptance can in no wise be achieved except through the
acceptance of Him Who is the Exponent of His Revelation … any act which is
accepted by the Point of the Bayán is accepted by God, inasmuch as the
contingent world hath no other access unto the presence of the Ancient of
Days.  Whatever is sent down cometh through the Exponent of His
Revelation, and whatever ascendeth, ascendeth unto the Exponent of His
Revelation.1
Believers’ station
Verily the faithful is far more exalted than can be described and he is far
more glorious than to have to beg and ask, and it is not worthy of his station
to be debased and humiliated.2
Blessing on homes of the believers
O my God!  Let the outpourings of Thy bounty and blessings descend upon
homes whose inmates have embraced Thy Faith, as a token of Thy grace and
as a mark of loving-kindness from Thy presence.3
Exalted art Thou, O Lord God.  Let Thy heavenly blessings descend upon
homes whose inmates have believed in Thee.  Verily, unsurpassed art Thou in
sending down divine blessings.4
Debts of faith
The fruit of this ordinance is this, that the divine words of glorification,
celebration of praise, sanctification, exaltation of unity, and magnification,
and all the other parts of religion are tokens that are bestowed as a bounty
from the Supreme Truth unto His created beings.  Therefore, upon His
revelation, it is incumbent upon all to return this bounteous loan unto Him,
from the lofty word of the declaration of Divine Unity to the last token of
limitation. Were one to repay at once, upon the revelation, his debt, nothing
would be reduced from his possessions; rather, he would be acknowledged in
both the world and within himself.5
Deeds are to be done for the sake of God
The substance of this gate is that no behaviour turneth into a real action
unless it is performed for the sake of God.  It is for this reason that it is
enjoined upon all those who perform any act [whether testifying to Divine
Unity or performing a mundane action such as eating food] to utter these

The Ba b, Selections, p. 81.
The Ba b in Saiedi, “Phenomenology of Occultation and Prayer”, p. 204.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 200.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 211.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 274.

Dispensation of the Ba b
words at the time of their action:  “Verily, I do this for God, the Lord of the
heavens and earth, the Lord of all that is seen and unseen, the Lord of
creation.”  Should he recite them in his heart, his action would be rewarded
as a result.1
Thy purpose in performing thy deeds is that God may graciously accept them;
and divine acceptance can in no wise be achieved except through the
acceptance of Him Who is the Exponent of His Revelation.2
Destiny and free choice
And the truth of this mystery is that none can behold the manifestation of the
Action of God, as it befitteth Him, save through the very manifestation of the
free choice of the things themselves. …  Verily, at the time of action, the
human being is the agent, who acteth by virtue of the Destiny-ordaining
Action of the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. …  Indeed, that free choice is
bound to the existence of each thing, and naught is called into existence
except through its free choice.  Verily, at the primordial moment of choice,
when God said unto the thing, ‘Am I not your Lord?’ it would not have replied,
‘Yea,’ had it been deprived of freedom of choice.3
Earthly dominions and earthly riches
This mortal life is like unto the carcass of a dog, around which none would
gather, nor would any partake thereof, except those who gainsay the life
hereafter.  Verily it is incumbent upon thee to become a true believer in God,
the All-Possessing, the Almighty, and to turn away from the one who guideth
thee into the torment of hellfire.4
Essence of knowledge
The essence of all knowledge is the knowledge of good character and traits.
Man must act in conformity with them, that by virtue of such knowledge of
ethics he shall neither witness any grief in his soul, nor inflict sorrow upon
any other soul.  All the reasons for ordaining righteousness, abstinence, and
other attributes return to this principle.5
Essence of knowledge and faith
This is the essence of all knowledge and faith, could anyone but behold,
gather the fruit of his existence, and attain utter death before each
Revelation, even as all are now dead before the command of His previous
Revelation.6

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 65.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 81.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 214.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 19.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 314.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 310.

10.  Virtues, spiritual and mystical principles

Firmness in the Covenant
Make me steadfast in Thy Cause and grant that I may be reckoned among
those who have not violated Thy Covenant nor followed the gods of their own
idle fancy.1
Fruit of science is recognition
How vast the number of people who are well versed in every science, yet it is
their adherence to the holy Word of God which will determine their faith,
inasmuch as the fruit of every science is none other than the knowledge of
divine precepts and submission unto His good-pleasure.2
God is the Most Generous
For granting of gifts doth not cause Thee loss, nor doth the bestowing of
favours diminish Thy wealth.3
God made His creation perfect
Say!  We verily have perfected Our handiwork in the creation of the heavens,
earth, whatever lieth between them, and in all things; will ye not then
behold?4
Heart of the true believer
The heart of the true believer is the throne of God.5
Beseech thou God to open, through His grace, the gate of the heart unto thee,
inasmuch as, without the light of that sanctuary, man is unable to conceive
of contrary attributes within one and the same thing.6
Independent investigation of truth
How often a person, having inclined his ears to the holy verses, would bow
down in humility and would embrace the Truth, while his leader would not
do so.  Thus every individual must bear his own responsibility, rather than
someone else bearing it for him.7
Therefore, it is forbidden in the Bayán for anyone to accept any religion save
through evidence and proof, and testimony, and certitude.8

The Ba b, Selections, p. 215.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 88.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 186.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 316.
The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 224.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 177.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 90.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 329.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Inner being
Verily the mystery of truth that is mentioned in the sacred traditions, whose
knowledge distinguishes the truly learned, is an originated and created sign.
God hath shed upon it, and through it, the splendours of his revelation and
hath ordained it to be a sign of his own self, that all that is possible to exist
out of the grace of God may vibrate, by its aid, towards his recognition and
attain, by its aid, unto his truth.  It is an originated sign … the sign of thy
truth, the truth of thy being ….1
Life after death
Fie upon the world and its people and upon those who take delight in earthly
riches, while oblivious of the life to come.2
This mortal life is sure to perish; its pleasures are bound to fade away and
erelong ye shall return unto God, distressed with pangs of remorse, for
presently ye shall be roused from your slumber, and ye shall soon find
yourselves in the presence of God and will be asked of your doings.3
Say, this earthly life shall come to an end, and everyone shall expire and
return unto my Lord God Who will reward with the choicest gifts the deeds
of those who endure with patience.4
Love of God
The substance of this gate is that no behaviour turneth into a real action
unless it is performed for the sake of God.  It is for this reason that it is
enjoined upon all those who perform any act to utter these words at the time
of their action:  "Verily, I do this for God, the Lord of the heavens and earth,
the Lord of all that is seen and unseen, the Lord of creation."  Should he recite
them in his heart, his action would be rewarded as a result.5
Man is a reflection of God’s attributes
Verily hath God created within thyself the similitude of all that He hath
fashioned in creation, that thou mayest not be veiled from any effulgence.
Verily God hath generated within thy being the entirety of His
manifestations.6
Man’s highest station
Man’s highest station, however, is attained through faith in God in every
Dispensation and by acceptance of what hath been revealed by Him, and not

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, “Phenomenology of Occultation”, p. 207.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 22.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 162.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 161.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, pp. 312-313.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 43.

10.  Virtues, spiritual and mystical principles

through learning; inasmuch as in every nation there are learned men who
are versed in divers sciences.  Nor is it attainable through wealth; for it is
similarly evident that among the various classes in every nation there are
those possessed of riches.  Likewise are other transitory things.1
Martyrs
Great is the blessedness of those whose blood Thou hast chosen wherewith to
water the Tree of Thine affirmation, and thus to exalt Thy holy and
immutable Word.2
Miracles
Whoever seeks to prove the truth of the Point of the Bayán [i.e. the Ba b]
through anything but divine verses has veiled himself from the greatest proof
and the noblest path. …  In the Qur’án nothing other than this proof has been
revealed.  Had they all understood this, it would have been easier for them,
rather than to profess faith in God through matters [miracles] they narrate
themselves and for which there is no proof in the book of God.3
Paradise and hell
And know thou of a certainty that by Paradise is meant recognition of and
submission unto Him Whom God will make manifest, and by the fire the
company of such souls as would fail to submit unto Him or to be resigned to
His good-pleasure.4
Poetry
Treasures lie hidden beneath the throne of God; the key to those treasures is
the tongue of poets.5
Potentialities of the new Day of God
The newly born Babe of that Day excels the wisest and most venerable men
of this time, and the lowliest and most unlearned of that period shall surpass
in understanding the most erudite and accomplished divines of this age ….6
The year-old germ that holdeth within itself the potentialities of the
Revelation that is to come is endowed with a potency superior to the
combined forces of the whole of the Bayán.7
Know thou, verily, that God revealed the Qur’án even as He hath created all
things.  Therefore, in this day, should a tiny ant desire to unravel all its verses,

The Ba b, Selections, p. 89.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 190.
The Ba b in Armin Eschraghi, “Undermining the Foundations”, p. 228.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 82–83.
The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 258–259.
The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 94.
Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 151.

Dispensation of the Ba b
and its abstruse meanings, and its stations, through the black of its own eye,
it shall be capable of achieving that, inasmuch as the mystery of Lordship
and the effulgence of the Eternal vibrate within the very atoms of all created
things.1
Prayer for the believers
Send down upon them that which will bring comfort to their minds, will
rejoice their inner beings, will impart assurance to their hearts and
tranquillity to their bodies and will enable their souls to ascend to the
presence of God, the Most Exalted, and to attain the supreme Paradise and
such retreats of glory as Thou hast destined for men of true knowledge and
virtue.2
Reward and punishment
Thou hast implored to receive an answer concerning the concepts of true
reward, the reality of punishment, and the light of rapture. …  For verily,
before God and before those who behold paradise in this earthly life, every
moment is the very Day of Resurrection.  Shouldst thou purify thy vision, and
cleanse thy sight, thou wouldst assuredly witness that verily the Balance
hath been appointed within thine own soul; paradise hath been brought nigh
unto thee on thy right hand; hell hath been made to blaze on thy left; the
Maidens with large and lustrous eyes, abiding in their lofty chambers of
heaven, have been established upon their thrones; and the essence of the
infidels hath been tormented in their terrible stations ….
Wert thou to desire in thy heart the performance of a good deed, God would
assuredly reward thee within thy soul.  Then, in the life to come, the result of
that which God hath immediately conferred upon thee will be revealed unto
thee.  For God, verily, is the Omniscient, the Omnipotent, and the Swift in
Reckoning.3
Riches should not be a barrier
How great the number of people who deck themselves with robes of silk all
their lives, while clad in the garb of fire, inasmuch as they have divested
themselves of the raiment of divine guidance and righteousness; and how
numerous are those who wear clothes made of cotton or coarse wool
throughout their lives, and yet by reason of their being endowed with the
vesture of divine guidance and righteousness, are truly attired with the
raiment of Paradise and take delight in the good-pleasure of God.  Indeed it
would be better in the sight of God were ye to combine the two, adorning
yourselves with the raiment of divine guidance and righteousness and

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 59.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 179.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 302.

10.  Virtues, spiritual and mystical principles

wearing exquisite silk, if ye can afford to do so.  If not, at least act ye not
unrighteously, but rather observe piety and virtue ….1
Servitude
Verily, the most sublime station of reward, and the most exalted position of
divine summons, is naught but the state of the servant’s turning toward his
Lord with utter devotion. For verily God will ever shed upon thee and through
thee the splendours of His revelation ….2
Spiritual wealth
Glory be unto Thee, O Lord!  Although Thou mayest cause a person to be
destitute of all earthly possessions, and from the beginning of his life until his
ascension unto Thee he may be reduced to poverty through the operation of
Thy decree, yet wert Thou to have brought him forth from the Tree of Thy
love, such a bounty would indeed be far better for him than all the things
Thou hast created in heaven and earth and whatsoever lieth between them;
inasmuch as he will inherit the heavenly home, through the revelation of Thy
favors, and will partake of the goodly gifts Thou hast provided therein; for
the things which are with Thee are inexhaustible.  This indeed is Thy blessing
which according to the good-pleasure of Thy Will Thou dost bestow on those
who tread the path of Thy love.3
Spiritual blindness and deafness
Praise be to Thee, O Lord, my Best Beloved!  Make me steadfast in Thy Cause
and grant that I may be reckoned among those who have not violated Thy
Covenant nor followed the gods of their own idle fancy.4
Submission to the Will of God
For verily a servant can never advance or ascend to the truth except through
witnessing divine alteration in all its modes and conditions.  Therefore,
should he be the doer of all good deeds, he would still be fearful of his Lord,
that He might change them into misdeeds, whenever He desireth and
however He pleaseth.5
Tests from God
Indeed shouldst Thou desire to confer blessing upon a servant Thou wouldst
blot out from the realm of his heart every mention or disposition except
Thine Own mention; and shouldst Thou ordain evil for a servant by reason of
that which his hands have unjustly wrought before Thy face, Thou wouldst

The Ba b, Selections, p. 149.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 248.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 189.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 215.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 209.

Dispensation of the Ba b
test him with the benefits of this world and of the next that he might become
preoccupied therewith and forget Thy remembrance.1
True immortality
How numerous the souls raised to life who were exposed to dire humiliation
in Thy Path for exalting Thy Word and for glorifying Thy divine Unity!  How
profuse the blood that hath been shed for the sake of Thy Faith to vindicate
the authenticity of Thy divine Mission and to celebrate Thy praise!  How vast
the possessions that were wrongfully seized in the Path of Thy love in order
to affirm the loftiness of Thy sanctity and to extol Thy glorious Name!2
Understanding of the Word of God depends on one’s spiritual capacity
The Primal Will, once it is manifested in this world at the behest of God,
speaketh of all things, and by virtue of its speaking thereof, all things are
brought into existence.  When He revealeth, ‘I am verily the Mirror of God,’ a
mirror is created in which naught is seen save the Countenance of God.
Therefore he [a person] would gaze upon the Bayán, and would always refer
to these words, inasmuch as his inmost reality is verily created by this verse.
He, therefore, would consider those who fail to believe in those words to be
of a lower spiritual station.  And he is correct at his own level of existence.
Likewise, when He revealeth, ‘I am verily the first to bow down before God,’
there would be one whose inmost reality is created in the image of those
words.  Thus, he would adduce proofs from the Bayán in that manner and
gazeth upon him who is above him as he doeth, on account of his inability to
comprehend the higher station.  For verily his inmost reality is generated
beneath the station of the higher one.3

The passages from the Writings of the Ba b reviewed in this chapter cover an
expansive range of themes that demonstrate the level of nobility expected of
humanity in this new era.  At the same time, we are assured that these
refinements in our attitudes and behaviour are achievable with the grace of God.
Furthermore, the divine Words revealed by the Ba b elevate our understanding of
the mysteries of the spiritual realm to hitherto unknown heights.



The Ba b, Selections, p. 151.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 188.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 175.



Image Section 2











































Figure 17: View of the
Masjid-i-Jum’ih in
Iṣfahán where the Báb
prayed
Figure 18: View of the Masjid-i-Jum’ih in
Iṣfahán and the pulpit in front of which the
Báb prayed
Figure 19: Castle of Máh-Kú, 1930’s

Dispensation of the Ba b















































Figure 20: Ruins of the Fortress of Máh-Kú
Figure 21: Ruins of Máh-Kú, 1930’s
Figure 22: Castle of Máh-Kú, 1930’s

11.  Individual and community exhortations
















































Figure 23: The Castle of Máh-Kú

Dispensation of the Ba b















































Figure 24: Castle of Máh-Kú
Figure 25: Corner marked X showing where the Báb
was bastinadoed in Tabríz
Figure 26: The Fortress of Chihríq

11.  Individual and community exhortations
















































Figure 27: The Barrack-square in Tabríz where the
Báb was martyred in 1850
Figure 28: The Tabríz Barrack Square

Dispensation of the Ba b















































Figure 29: Facsimile of the Báb’s
Tablet to “Him Who will be Made
Manifest (Bahá’u’lláh)
Figure 30: The Báb’s Tablet to the
First Letter of the Living
Figure 31: The Báb’s letter to
His wife, Khadíjih Bagum

11.  Individual and community exhortations








































Figure 32: Calligraphic exercise of the Báb written before He was
ten years old



Individual and community exhortations
In the Ba bí  Faith, personal transformation was vital to achieve social
transformation and, therefore, there are ethical provisions not only for the
individual, but also for the community and for the interaction between them.
This chapter presents a compendium of important exhortations and
prohibitions from the Writings of the Ba b on the following:
•
Exhortations in relation to oneself
•
Other individual ordinances
•
Exhortations in relation to others
•
Some prohibitions
Exhortations in relation to oneself
Prayer
The most acceptable prayer is the one offered with the utmost spirituality
and radiance.1
Fasting
The substance of this gate is that before fasting thou must comprehend God’s
purpose thereof, regarding that which is the fruit of the fast ….  The purpose
of fasting is to fast from anyone who is not godly. …  When fasting, it
behooveth the one who fasteth to take heed lest he be veiled from the good
pleasure of God, so that, during his fast, should the Tree of Truth shine forth,
and command the breaking of the fast, he would unhesitatingly obey. …
Guard thyself from drinking; eating; intercourse; contention, even in words;
injustice, even to the slightest extent; and pronouncing judgment against
God ….2
… whosoever pronounceth judgment against the Point hath pronounced
judgment against God, which rendereth his fasting null.3
Learning the Word of God by heart
We verily have sent down unto Thee, in addition to this Book, the Hidden
Epistle, that the people may recite its supplications in the daytime and in the
night season, and learn from its sublime verses the paths of their servitude
to God, in the path of this Most Great Gate (Báb).  This, verily, is a mighty
testimony from God unto the truth of the Most Great Remembrance.  Learn
ye by heart that which ye can from this Snow-white Book, and that Crimson-

The Ba b, Selections, p. 78.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 331.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 331.

11.  Individual and community exhortations

coloured Epistle, for God hath, in very truth, guaranteed for those who learn
the former by heart and recite from the latter, in the path of the Báb, a
heavenly paradise.1
Manifesting God’s attributes
O My beloved friends! …  It behoves each one of you to manifest the attributes
of God, and to exemplify by your deeds and words the signs of His
righteousness, His power and glory.  The very members of your body must
bear witness to the loftiness of your purpose, the integrity of your life, the
reality of your faith, and the exalted character of your devotion.2
Marriage
The law of marriage is ordained thus that all may abide beneath the bounty
of God’s grace and mercy, and fix their eyes upon that which is the basis of
the lawfulness of marriage, which is naught but the words ‘for God,’ that
haply in the Day of the Revelation of Him Whom God will make manifest they
will not deviate from the supreme Mirror of these words, the One Who
testifieth unto God.3
Punishment for committing a misdeed
For those who commit a grievous act, no fire hath ever been, nor will ever be,
more tormenting than their very own action, even as for the faithful no
paradise hath ever been, nor will ever be, more mighty than their own
recognition and faith.4
Recording and monitoring one’s own actions
Let each one write his name and what he hath done of good and otherwise
from the beginning of the Manifestation of the Matter until the day of its
decline:  and let his executors preserve it, until the day wherein the Tree of
Truth [Baha ’u’lla h] shall be manifest.5

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 187.
The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 92.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 313.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 312.
The Ba b in Moojan Momen, Selections from the Writings, p. 372.  In relation to writing a
will and testament the Kitáb-i-Aqdas stipulates: “Unto everyone hath been enjoined the
writing of a will.  The testator should head this document with the adornment of the Most
Great Name, bear witness therein unto the oneness of God in the Dayspring of His
Revelation, and make mention, as he may wish, of that which is praiseworthy, so that it
may be a testimony for him in the kingdoms of Revelation and Creation and a treasure
with his Lord, the Supreme Protector, the Faithful” (para. 109, p. 59).  “His Holiness, the
blessed Báb,” ‘Abdu’l-Baha  said, “mentions in his book that every one must consider at
the end of each day what have been his actions.” (Star of the West, Vol. IX, No. 8, 1 August
1918), p. 96.)

Dispensation of the Ba b
Relying on God
Your faith must be immovable as the rock, must weather every storm and
survive every calamity.1
Regard not the all-sufficing power of God as an idle fancy.  It is that genuine
faith which thou cherishest for the Manifestation of God in every
Dispensation.  It is such faith which sufficeth above all the things that exist
on the earth, whereas no created thing on earth besides faith would suffice
thee.2
Seeking God’s good-pleasure
All that I beg of Thee, O my God, is to enable me, ere my soul departeth from
my body, to attain Thy good-pleasure, even were it granted to me for a
moment tinier than the infinitesimal fraction of a mustard seed.  For if it
departeth while Thou art pleased with me, then I shall be free from every
concern or anxiety; but if it abandoneth me while Thou art displeased with
me, then, even had I wrought every good deed, none would be of any avail,
and had I earned every honor and glory, none would serve to exalt me.3
O My God, O my Lord, O my Master!  I beg Thee to forgive me for seeking any
pleasure save Thy love, or any comfort except Thy nearness, or any delight
besides Thy good-pleasure, or any existence other than communion with
Thee.4
Striving for perfection
[W]hoever possesseth power over anything must elevate it to its uttermost
perfection that it not be deprived of its own paradise.  For example, the
paradise of a sheet of paper on which a few excellent lines are inscribed is
that it be refined with patterns of gold illumination, adornment, and
excellence that are customary for the most exalted parchment scrolls.  Then
the possessor of that paper hath elevated it to its utmost degree of glory.
Should he know of a higher degree of refinement and fail to manifest it upon
that paper, he would deprive it of its paradise, and he would be held
accountable, for why hast thou, despite the possession of the means, withheld
the effusion of grace and favour?5

The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 87.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 193.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 187–188.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 216.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 255.

11.  Individual and community exhortations

Other individual ordinances
Cleanliness
The Ba b places great emphasis on cleanliness.  “Naught in the Bayán and in the
sight of God is more loved than purity and immaculate cleanliness,”1 said the Ba b.
The Baya n specifically mentions Christians as an example of cleanliness
compared to the Muslim world,2 some of whose members, particularly the Shí ’a
Muslims, paradoxically consider Christians as ritually “unclean” or “impure”
because of their contact with what is “ḥarám” (forbidden) in Islam.  For example,
many Christians eat pork and drink wine, which is banned in Islam; and,
nowadays, there are no specific requirements for the Christian laity regarding
ablutions before prayer or for the congregation attending church.
It is important to realize that the reference to “ritual” impurity in Islam has
stronger connotations than mere uncleanliness or lack of personal hygiene; it
implies physical avoidance of any kind of contact, and a distancing that,
throughout history, has been, and is still, used to justify segregation and
discrimination.  All such discrimination has been eliminated in the Baha ’í  Faith.
Whereas the emphasis in Isla m is for ritual purity before devotions, the
emphasis of the Ba b is on maintaining cleanliness and tidiness of one’s person
and dress at all times.  The Ba b prescribes that nails should be cut every four days
and people should bathe at least every four days and pluck off their body hairs
every 8 or 14 days.  Even a speck of dirt on a person’s clothes must be rectified.
Believers are encouraged to care for their cleanliness and appearance by looking
at themselves in a mirror morning and evening.3  Public baths should be built in
every village but, contrary to the Persian custom, the tank waters should be
constantly changed.  The Ba b prefers that people bathe by pouring clean water
on their bodies rather than submerging their bodies in water, especially if it is
dirty and stagnant.4  Baha ’u’lla h said in the Kita b-i-Aqdas:  “It hath been enjoined
upon you to pare your nails, to bathe yourselves each week in water that covereth
your bodies, and to clean yourselves with whatsoever ye have formerly employed
Baha ’u’lla h ratified these practices and principles in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas:
God hath enjoined upon you to observe the utmost cleanliness, to the extent
of washing what is soiled with dust, let alone with hardened dirt and similar
defilement.  Fear Him, and be of those who are pure.  Should the garb of
anyone be visibly sullied, his prayers shall not ascend to God, and the celestial
Concourse will turn away from him.  Make use of rose water, and of pure
perfume; this, indeed, is that which God hath loved from the beginning that
hath no beginning, in order that there may be diffused from you what your
Lord, the Incomparable, the All-Wise, desireth.5

The Ba b, Selections, p. 80.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 6:2.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 8:6.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 6:2.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 76, p. 47.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Further, Baha ’u’lla h prescribes that feet be washed “once every day in summer,
and once every three days during winter.”  Confirming many of the teachings of the
Ba b on cleanliness, Baha ’u’lla h wrote in the Kita b-i-Aqdas:
Immerse yourselves in clean water; it is not permissible to bathe yourselves
in water that hath already been used.  See that ye approach not the public
pools of Persian baths; whoso maketh his way toward such baths will smell
their fetid odour ere he entereth therein.  Shun them, O people, and be not of
those who ignominiously accept such vileness.  In truth, they are as sinks of
foulness and contamination, if ye be of them that apprehend.  Avoid ye
likewise the malodorous pools in the courtyards of Persian homes, and be ye
of the pure and sanctified.  Truly, We desire to behold you as manifestations
of paradise on earth, that there may be diffused from you such fragrance as
shall rejoice the hearts of the favoured of God.  If the bather, instead of
entering the water, wash himself by pouring it upon his body, it shall be
better for him and shall absolve him of the need for bodily immersion.  The
Lord, verily, hath willed, as a bounty from His presence, to make life easier
for you that ye may be of those who are truly thankful.1
Reading the Words of God every day
The Ba b wrote in the Baya n:
Everyone must read 700 of the verses of the Bayán, night and day.  And if he
be not able, let him mention God 700 times by saying ‘Alláh-u-Azhar’ (God is
most manifest).2
In the Kita b-i-Aqdas Baha ’u’lla h modified this requirement by taking away the
number of verses to be read:
Recite ye the verses of God every morn and eventide.  Whoso faileth to recite
them hath not been faithful to the Covenant of God and His Testament, and
whoso turneth away from these holy verses in this Day is of those who
throughout eternity have turned away from God.  Fear ye God, O My servants,
one and all.  Pride not yourselves on much reading of the verses or on a
multitude of pious acts by night and day; for were a man to read a single
verse with joy and radiance it would be better for him than to read with
lassitude all the Holy Books of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.  Read
ye the sacred verses in such measure that ye be not overcome by languor and
despondency.  Lay not upon your souls that which will weary them and weigh
them down, but rather what will lighten and uplift them, so that they may
soar on the wings of the Divine verses towards the Dawning-place of His
manifest signs; this will draw you nearer to God, did ye but comprehend.3

Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 106, pp. 57–58.
The Ba b in Momen, Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne, p. 373.
Baha ’u’lla h, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 149, pp. 73–74.

11.  Individual and community exhortations

Renewing home furnishings every 19 years
The Ba b exhorts believers to renew their home furnishings every 19 years,
if possible.1  Baha ’u’lla h confirms this exhortation in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas:  “Ye have
been enjoined to renew the furnishings of your homes after the passing of each
nineteen years ….  Whoso findeth that his means are insufficient to this purpose hath
been excused by God, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Bounteous.”2
Exhortations in relation to others
Avoiding causing fear
The substance of this gate is that things which may cause a soul to become
frightened by another are not beloved before God. …  It behooveth the servant
to be ever watchful that nothing he doeth can cause fear to any soul, that
haply in the Day of Resurrection all shall abide in the temple of humanity
with all its befitting characteristics.3
Avoid criticizing others
They may not refute each other, since whoever enters the Bayán is a believer.
Whatever stage (maqám) he might have reached, it is good (khúb ast).
Should one of the [people of the] Bayán refute another of the [people of the]
Bayán, he shall be obliged to pay 95 mithqáls of gold ….  The purpose of God
in [prescribing] this provision is that none in the Bayán shall dare to refute
anyone by calling [him a] non-believer.”4
Avoid quarrels
For quarrels are forbidden at all times and under any condition, and the
ways of the faithful have never been, nor will ever be, aught but forbearance,
patience, [sense of] shame, and tranquility.  Verily, the House of God hath no
need of such people!5
Avoid saddening another person
It is ordained in this religion to design the doors of each place to allow a tall
man to enter through them without bending his head.  It behooveth them,
each day, to build all the places in the utmost manner of exaltation possible
at that time, so that haply in the Day of the Revelation of God, nothing that
causeth grief may be witnessed in His kingdom.6

The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 9:14.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 151 p. 74.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 324.
The Ba b in Eschraghi, “Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy”, p. 237.  The plural
of mithqa l (a unit of weight) is matha qí l (mithqals is used in English).  Quantities of
gold and silver are used as a reference value that can be paid as its equivalent in any
currency.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, pp. 324.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 317.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Guard yourselves, that ye may not in any way be the cause of sadness to
another soul, inasmuch as the hearts of the faithful are nearer to God than
the House made out of clay ….1
God hath, at all times and under all conditions, been wholly independent of
His creatures.  He hath cherished and will ever cherish the desire that all men
may attain His gardens of Paradise with utmost love, that no one should
sadden another, not even for a moment, and that all should dwell within His
cradle of protection and security until the Day of Resurrection which
marketh the dayspring of the Revelation of Him Whom God will make
manifest.2
Avoid striking people
It is illicit for you to torment men, even if this is only in striking them with
the hand upon the elbow … when you wish to remonstrate with someone,
write your arguments and your proofs with prudence and with the most
complete politeness.3
Bringing joy

In the Bayán no act of worship is nearer unto His acceptance than bringing
joy to the hearts of the believers, and none more remote than inflicting
sorrow upon them.4
Resolving rumours
If any bad man come unto you with news, clear up the matter at once, lest
through ignorance ye harm others, and be speedily constrained to repent of
what ye have done.5
Exercising restraint when punishing children
The substance of this gate is that God never wisheth that any soul should be
saddened, how much less that he should be afflicted with harm.  Thus, He
hath prohibited all from punishing a child who hath not yet reached the age
five, save by words, and He hath prohibited causing him any grief.  And after
reaching the age of five, more than five light strikes, not to the flesh but to a
protecting cover, is not permitted, and should not be inflicted in a
disrespectful and discourteous manner, as is customary in these days.6

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 324.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 86.
The Ba b in Muh ammad Afna n, “The Role of the Baha ’í  Scholar”, pp. 3–4.
4      Ali-Akbar Furutan, The Story of my Heart, p. 199.
The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 150.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, pp. 324–325.

11.  Individual and community exhortations

Guiding and teaching others
Even as the cloud that rains its bounty upon the earth, traverse the land from
end to end, and shower upon its people the blessings which the Almighty, in
His mercy, has deigned to confer upon you.1
It is better to guide one soul than to possess all that is on earth, for as long
as that guided soul is under the shadow of the Tree of Divine Unity, he and
the one who hath guided him will both be recipients of God’s tender mercy,
whereas possession of earthly things will cease at the time of death.2
Helping the poor
If ye find in your midst one who is hungry, send him, in truth and to the extent
of your power, food in such a way that his heart will not be saddened, and if
ye find one who has no clothes, provide him with clothes in the most dignified
manner, to the extent possible for you.3
Look at spiritual things
Look not, O people, at the things ye possess.  Look rather at the things God
hath sent down unto you.  This, surely, will be better for you than the whole
of creation, could ye but perceive it.4
Responding to requests and correspondence
He is a man endued with vision who answereth the call of God in all worlds
and stations, whether in writing, through utterance, or action, which is the
most mighty means of response.  And it is by virtue of the blessings accruing
from the act of answering of such a soul that all are enjoined to respond to
each other.  So much so, that if an infant cry, it is a duty to respond to him
through appropriate means.5
…it is enjoined in this Revelation that should anyone receive a letter from any
other, it is his duty to write him back… Likewise, should one’s condition
silently call upon others, it is the duty of men of discernment to answer his
call.  In like manner should one’s place of residence call for answer, or any
other manifestation discernible to men of vision, it is binding upon them to
reply, that at no time, no one may witness that which would cause him grief.6
Resolving arguments
Thus these two would dispute:  This one sayeth, ‘Thou art an extremist,’ and
the other one sayeth, ‘Thou art intolerant.’  This one adduceth evidence from
a word of God, and that one reasoneth by another word of God.  But I affirm

The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 85.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 77.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 323.
Baha ’u’lla h, Gleanings, p. 146.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, pp. 321–322.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, “The Worldview of the Ba b”, pp. 96–97.

Dispensation of the Ba b
unto them:  Ye both are true and right, on the condition that thou not say
unto him, ‘He is an extremist,’ and he not say unto thee, ‘Thou art intolerant.’
As to thee who art in the lower station, thou verily art created by this verse,
and thus thou wouldst not comprehend above it.  As to thee who art in the
highest station, thou art fashioned by that verse and thou canst understand
the station beneath thine existence ….  Thus, wert thou to acquire wisdom,
thou wouldst not reject anyone because of his limitation, but must foster the
growth of all in the palm of thy mercy.  Shouldst thou succeed in elevating
him to the realm of glory, great would be his blessings from thee; and should
he fail to ascend to thy height, thou shouldst train him within his own rank
of existence.  For verily he too is a creation of thy Lord; God loveth him and
he loveth God ….1
Respecting women
Therefore, in the Bayán there is no act of obedience that ensureth greater
nearness to God than bringing joy to the hearts of the faithful, even as naught
yieldeth more remoteness than causing them grief.  This law is doubly
binding in dealing with the possessors of circles (women), whether in causing
them joy or grief.  However, man must always be watchful that even if he fail
to bring joy to a human being, at least he should refrain from causing him
grief.2
Conduct yourselves with your women in the most loving manner.  Believing
women are like the leaves of the heavenly camphor tree.  Do not mistreat
(mayázár) them even for a blink of an eye, because were you to do so, you
shall be veiled from the command of God for that very blink of an eye.3
God attributes both to Himself that haply neither men exalt themselves over
women, nor women exalt themselves over men.4
Obedience to parents and remembrance of them in prayer
After the right of thy faithful brothers, it is thy duty to submit in acquiescence
unto thy parents, even though they should wrong thee.  Utter no word of
contempt to them, and repulse them not.  Obey their wishes before they ask
thee.  For verily thine obedience to them is more beloved in My sight than thy
heart’s delight in refreshing, cool ice on a burning hot day.
Were either of them, for any reason, to be wrathful to thee, thou must reveal,
in return, thy satisfaction even with their wrath, that no sorrow, even to the
extent of a mustard seed, may ever cross their heart from thee.  Verily the
command of thy parents is mightier, in the sight of God, than all good deeds,
unless it calleth thee to sin against the Lord.  Seek thou their satisfaction with

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, pp. 175–176.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 322.
The Ba b in Eschraghi, “Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy”, p. 232.
The Ba b in Saiedi, Reconstruction of the Concept of the Human Being, p. 4.

11.  Individual and community exhortations

thee, for their pleasure is naught but the good pleasure of the Lord, exalted
be His sanctity.”1
It is seemly that the servant should, after each prayer, supplicate God to
bestow mercy and forgiveness upon his parents.  Thereupon God’s call will
be raised:  “Thousand upon thousand of what thou hast asked for thy parents
shall be thy recompense!”  Blessed is he who remembereth his parents when
communing with God.  There is, verily, no God but Him, the Mighty, the Well-
Beloved.2
Regard for the human body
As this physical frame is the throne of the inner temple, whatever occurs to
the former is felt by the latter.  In reality that which takes delight in joy or is
saddened by pain is the inner temple of the body, not the body itself.  Since
this physical body is the throne whereon the inner temple is established, God
hath ordained that the body be preserved to the extent possible, so that
nothing that causeth repugnance may be experienced.  The inner temple
beholdeth its physical frame, which is its throne.  Thus, if the latter is
accorded respect, it is as if the former is the recipient.  The converse is
likewise true.
Therefore, it hath been ordained that the dead body should be treated with
the utmost honor and respect.3
Other precepts from the Baya n are to visit the sick,4 not to raise one’s voice5
and to earn a livelihood.6  Interestingly, in regard to health and healing, according
to ‘Abdu’l-Baha , “The Báb hath said that the people of Bahá [Baha ’í s] must develop
the science of medicine to such a high degree that they will heal illnesses by means
of food.”7
Some prohibitions
There were some prohibitions introduced in the Ba bí  Faith that were
confirmed by Baha ’u’lla h:  carrying arms, gambling, use of opium or any other
intoxicating substances, theft, and entering a house without the owner’s
permission.

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 306.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 94.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 95.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 9:2.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 6:16.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 8:17.
‘Abdu’l-Baha , Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, pp. 153–154.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Carrying arms
In the Kitáb-i-Aqdas is written “It hath been forbidden you to carry arms unless
essential”.1  This prohibition has its root in the Persian and Arabic Baya n,2 but
there is an exemption for essential purposes, as elucidated by the Universal
House of Justice:
With regard to circumstances under which the bearing of arms might be
“essential” for an individual, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá gives permission to a believer
for self-protection in a dangerous environment.  Shoghi Effendi in a letter
written on his behalf has also indicated that, in an emergency, when there
is no legal force at hand to appeal to, a Bahá’í is justified in defending his
life.  There are a number of other situations in which weapons are needed
and can be legitimately used; for instance, in countries where people hunt
for their food and clothing, and in such sports as archery, marksmanship,
and fencing.3
Entering a house without the owner’s permission
The Ba b explicitly forbids entering a house in the absence of the owner or
making anyone leave their home without their agreement.  As a punishment, the
transgressor was to be fined 19 mithqals of gold (or its equivalent in assets), and
his wife was to be forbidden to visit him for 19 months.
Baha ’u’lla h confirms the general tenor of the above injunction in the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas:
Take heed that ye enter no house in the absence of its owner, except with his
permission.  Comport yourselves with propriety under all conditions, and be
not numbered with the wayward.4
Baha ’u’lla h also states:
They that spread disorder in the land, and lay hands on the property of
others, and enter a house without leave of its owner, We, verily, are clear of
them, unless they repent and return unto God, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most
Merciful.5
Gambling and the use of opium and any other intoxicating substance
The Persian Baya n strictly forbids gambling and the use of opium and any
other substance that provokes stupor and sluggishness6 including wine because
their consumption turns people away from God.  The prohibition of opium is the
only law mentioned twice in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, and is highlighted in the very last

Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 159, p. 76.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 7:6 and Arabic Baya n 7:6.
The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Note 173, pp. 240–1.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 145, p. 72.
Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 23.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 9:8.

11.  Individual and community exhortations

verse.  The Ba b makes an exception for medical cases as opium was used in 19th
century Persia for pain relief.  In the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Baha ’u’lla h states:
It is inadmissible that man, who hath been endowed with reason, should
consume that which stealeth it away.  Nay, rather it behoveth him to comport
himself in a manner worthy of the human station, and not in accordance with
the misdeeds of every heedless and wavering soul.1
Gambling and the use of opium have been forbidden unto you.  Eschew them
both, O people, and be not of those who transgress.  Beware of using any
substance that induceth sluggishness and torpor in the human temple and
inflicteth harm upon the body.  We, verily, desire for you naught save what
shall profit you, and to this bear witness all created things, had ye but ears
to hear.2

In this chapter, we have studied a number of exhortations and prohibitions of
the Ba b addressed to His followers as individuals and as a society.  In these
divinely revealed verses, we find the practices enjoined upon us, starting with
what we owe to God, as well as what we owe to ourselves, to our families and to
the community.  These are the foundations and the pillars upon which will be
raised the edifice of the new spiritual society—the “new creation” prophesied in
the Qur’a n (50:15).  The essence of these ordinances was later modified or
confirmed by Baha ’u’lla h.


Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 119, p. 62.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 155, p. 75.



Societal organization
The Ba b introduced several provisions and arrangements to re-organize
social and community interactions in terms of a new mindset and a new society.
According to Iranologist Mangol Bayat, in the Ba b’s social vision:  “… the
relationship of humans to the conditions of their existence is complex and subject
to change; that a distinction must be made between conditions that are
unchangeable and those that one can alter; and above all, that religious evolution
has to accompany human social and intellectual evolution.”1
In this chapter, the nature and structure of social engagements are discussed
under two broad themes:
•
Exhortations pertaining to community life and social development
•
The new Badí ‘ calendar and the Nineteen Day Feast.
Exhortations pertaining to community life and social development
Arts
Thus, just as today the letters of the Gospel [Christians] are distinguished
amongst other communities in the art of ornament, the believers in the
Bayán should likewise reflect in their handiwork naught but perfection
within the limits of each endeavour, in such wise that a faithful believer in
the Bayán in the East of the earth should be beloved in his station on account
of his beauty and the beauty of all that he possesseth.  And this is the most
mighty path for attracting the people of other religions to the true Cause of
the all-merciful God.  However, these are all binding to the extent that one
possesseth the means to do so, not to inflict pain on oneself toward perfecting
things.2
Education
Educate then, O my God, the people of the Bayán in such wise that no product
may be found amongst them but that the very utmost perfection of industry
shall be manifest therein ….  For verily Thou hast desired, by this law, to build
the earth anew by virtue of Thy glorious handiwork through the hands of
Thy servants.3
Equality
Say!  God verily cultivateth on earth as He pleaseth, at His bidding.  Will ye
not behold?  Think ye that ye are the sowers?  Say!  Glorified be God!  We are,
verily, the Cultivators.  Say!  Gaze ye then upon all even as ye behold the most

Mangol Bayat, Mysticism and dissent, p. 107.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, pp. 317–318.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 316.

12.  Societal organization

exalted of the renowned amongst you.  Verily, that which is shared by both
the rulers and those who farm the lands is one thing:  they all abide by the
bidding of God.  Say!  We verily sow through Our verses in the soil of your
hearts, spirits, souls, and bodies ….1
Fairness and honesty in business
I who am your example have been a merchant by profession.  It behoves you
in all your transactions to follow in My way.  You must neither defraud your
neighbour nor allow him to defraud you.  Such was the way of your Master.
The shrewdest and ablest of men were unable to deceive Him, nor did He on
His part choose to act ungenerously towards the meanest and most helpless
of creatures.2
Praise your Lord for sending down the blessing of the Heaven and Earth and
in between, to those who are engaged in trade.  O God! raise those who are
fair in their dealings, and love those inferior to them as they love their own
souls and give them respect and prosperity.  You are the Omnipotent!  Say!
Whoever trades for the sake of God, and is honest in his business, God will
guarantee him against fraud.  Thereby, those of you who established your
trade on the path of God, and thus [are partners] with the manifestation of
God, are truthful in your trade.3
Handicrafts and industries
Say!  We verily have perfected Our handiwork in the creation of the heavens,
earth, whatever lieth between them, and in all things; will ye not then
behold? …  Perfect ye then your own handiwork in all that ye produce with
your hands working through the handiwork of God.  Then would this indeed
be a handiwork of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.  Waste ye not
that which God createth with your hands through your handiwork; rather,
make manifest in them the perfection of industry or craft, be it a large and
mass product or a small and retail one.  For verily one who perfecteth his
handiwork indeed attaineth certitude in the perfection of the handiwork of
God within his own being.4
Interfaith tolerance
Should anyone lay claim unto a Revelation, and fail to produce any proof, do
not protest, and sadden Him not.5
Should any one make a statement, and fail to support it by any proof, reject
him not.6

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, pp. 80–81.
The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 303.
The Ba b in Abbas Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal, pp. 129–130.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 316.
The Ba b; cited in Baha ’u’lla h‘s Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, pp. 159–160.
Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 165.

Dispensation of the Ba b
The path to guidance is one of love and compassion, not of force and
coercion.  This hath been God’s method in the past, and shall continue to be
in the future!  He causeth him whom He pleaseth to enter the shadow of His
Mercy.  Verily, He is the Supreme Protector, the All-Generous.1
Relatives and family life
The Persian Baya n contains beautiful teachings about the family.2  Parents
must show the utmost love and kindness to their children.  Children are
encouraged to play with toys.3  Also children must always treat with great
politeness and love their parents, siblings and other relatives so that no sadness
may reach their hearts.4  This love should be a reflection of the love for Him Whom
God shall make Manifest.5  Armin Eschraghi writes that, in the Persian Baya n
(4:19), “The greatest means to achieve nearness to God is showing utmost love
and kindness to one’s wife and children.”6
Seeking knowledge
The Ba b encourages His believers to seek knowledge abroad because their
knowledge should encompass all of what is on earth—including countries,
religions and governments.7  He praises Christian Europeans for using the
telescope to explore the universe.8  He exhorts His followers to learn from
Christians: “… perfect then all your handiwork and industries, and seek to learn [in
that regard] from the letters of the Gospel [Christians]”.9
Verily, whenever I have gazed upon the diversity of Thy creation upon the
earth, I have seen none to resemble the people of Gospel in the creativity of
their handiwork and the wonders of their products.10
Badí‘ Calendar
The new Badí ‘ (“unique”, “wonderful”) Calendar inaugurated by the Ba b is a
distinctive feature of His Revelation that was ratified, adopted and further
developed by Baha ’u’lla h.  It is a calendar of 19 months each consisting of 19 days,
that is, 361 days in total.  This new calendar was instituted in the Persian Baya n11
and the Kita b-i-Asma ’ (Book of Divine Names).  In order to ensure the number of
days of the Baha ’í  year matched the number of days it takes the earth to circle the

The Ba b, Selections, p. 77.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 4:19.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 6:11.
Peter Terry, A Thematic Analysis and Summary of the Persian Bayán, p. 34.
Moojan Momen, Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne, p. 345.
Armin Eschraghi, “Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy”, p. 232.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 11:15.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 6:3.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 319.
10 The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 319.
11 The Ba b, Persian Baya n 5:3.

12.  Societal organization

sun, Baha ’u’lla h later added four days in ordinary years or five days in leap years
as intercalary days.  These days are situated between the eighteenth and
nineteenth months.  According to the Ba b:
The substance of this gate is that the Lord of the universe hath fashioned all
types of years by His behest, and hath ordained that from the inception of the
Bayán, each year should equal the numerical value of the words “all things”
(kullu-shay’) [19 × 19 = 361], to consist of nineteen months, where each
month equalleth nineteen days, that from the moment of the rising of the sun
in the vernal equinox—corresponding to the first sign of the Zodiac, the sign
of Aries—till the end of its voyage at the end of winter—corresponding to
the last sign of the Zodiac, the sign of Pisces—all beings may traverse
through all the nineteen stages of the Letters of Unity.1
A distinctive feature of the Badí ‘ calendar is that each month bears the name
of one of God’s attributes, thus spiritualizing time and the civilization that grows
within it.  The Ba b took the names of the months from a prayer (the Du‘á’ al-
Bahá’) ascribed to Muh ammad al-Ba qir, the fifth Ima m, and used in Shí ‘a Islam
during the Ramad a n month of fasting.  According to Baha ’í  author, Adib
Taherzadeh:
There are nineteen invocations in this prayer and each revolves around
one of His [God’s] names, the first being Bahá (Glory).  The Báb has taken
these names in the same order and given them to the nineteen months of
His calendar ….2
The Badí ‘ calendar year starts on Naw-Ru z which is astronomically fixed at
the March equinox.  Years in the Badí ‘ calendar are counted from the Naw-Ru z of
the Baha ’í  year in which the Ba b made His Declaration to Mulla  H usayn, the first
believer.  Thus, the beginning of the Baha 'í  Era (BE) is counted from Thursday 21
March 1844 (1 Rabí ‘ al-Awwal 1260).3  In the Ba bí -Baha ’í  Faith a new day starts
after sunset.  Therefore, year 1 BE began at sundown on 20 March 1844.  The first
month of the Baha ’í  year carries the name of Baha  on behalf of Him Whom God
shall make Manifest, and is followed by other months named after divine
attributes.  The Ba b writes:
Thus, He hath destined each day to be the springtime of one of His laws, that
the inmates of this paradise may partake of divine delights in the utmost joy
possible within the realm of creation.  Therefore, during the first three
months (Splendour, Glory, Beauty)—the months of glorification—the fire of
the hearts of existent beings is kindled.  During the next four months
(Grandeur, Light, Mercy, Words)—the months of the celebration of praise—
the spirits of the contingent beings are created, during which time they are

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 327.
Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, vol. 1, p. 116.
The Universal House of Justice determined in 2014 that the date of Naw-Ru z each year
would be based on the occurrence of the vernal equinox in T ihra n.  Thus Naw-Ru z
could fall between 20 and 22 March of the Gregorian calendar.

Dispensation of the Ba b
provided for.  In the subsequent six months (Perfection, Names, Might, Will,
Knowledge, Power)—the months of the exaltation of unity—God causeth the
beings to expire, not as a physical death, but the death of negation and life in
affirmation.  Finally, in the last six months (Speech, Questions, Honour,
Sovereignty,
Dominion,
Loftiness)—which
are
the
months
of
magnification—the Lord of the universe, glorified and exalted be He,
quickeneth those souls who have died to the love of anyone other than Him
and have remained steadfast in His love.1
The Ba b created the institution of the Nineteen Day Feast based on provisions
in the Arabic Baya n that a believer should invite nineteen believers every
nineteen days and offer them hospitality, even if only water is served.2
Baha ’u’lla h states:
Verily, it is enjoined upon you to offer a feast, once in every month, though
only water be served; for God hath purposed to bind hearts together, albeit
through both earthly and heavenly means.3

This chapter covered some institutions established by the Ba b concerning the
organization and interactions of His community of followers that were designed
to foster love and unity between its members.  In instituting the Nineteen Day
Feast during which the believers could gather together to celebrate the start of
each month, the Ba b created the ideal condition for enhancing the solidarity of
the community.
The Ba b marked the start of the new religious era with His Badí ‘ calendar of
19 months of 19 days based on the solar year.  There is nothing unusual about
inaugurating a new religious dispensation in this way.  There are still calendars
in use from ancient times, though some may have undergone regional or
sectarian changes.  The earliest known is the Saptarsi calendar of Hinduism,
which originated in 6676 BCE.  According to tradition, the Hebrew calendar
started at the time of Creation, placed at 3761 BCE; the Zoroastrian calendar starts
from 1738 BCE, the year of Divine revelation; while the Buddhist calendar uses as
its starting point the date of the Buddha's passing to parinirvana c. 544 BCE.
Where the Badí ‘ calendar is unique is that, unlike the others, the Baha ’í
“month” is not allied to the lunar cycle.  Instead of the usual 30 days (plus or minus
a day), the month in the calendar of the Ba b is based on the mystic number 19—
the Vaḥíd or “unity”.  Furthermore, every day of the week, and every month,
carries the name of an attribute of God.  Thus, time itself has become a
“remembrance of God”.


The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 328.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 9:17.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 57, p. 40.



Some prayers and invocations
The devotional nature of the teachings of the Ba b should be emphasized.
Communion with God and inner growth are central to His revelation—this was
reviewed in chapter 9.  The following are the main spiritual development themes
of the Ba bí -Baha ’í  Faith discussed in this chapter:
•
Devotions and worship
•
Prayers
•
Invocations
Devotions and worship
The Ba b provides spiritual guidance in the Persian Baya n as to how devotions
and worship should be practised to reach a state of purity:
The reason why privacy hath been enjoined in moments of devotion is this,
that thou mayest give thy best attention to the remembrance of God, that thy
heart may at all times be animated with His Spirit, and not be shut out as by
a veil from thy Best-Beloved.1
Worship thou God in such wise that if thy worship lead thee to the fire, no
alteration in thine adoration would be produced, and so likewise if thy
recompense should be paradise.  Thus and thus alone should be the worship
which befitteth the one True God.  Shouldst thou worship Him because of
fear, this would be unseemly in the sanctified Court of His presence, and could
not be regarded as an act by thee dedicated to the Oneness of His Being.  Or
if thy gaze should be on paradise, and thou shouldst worship Him while
cherishing such a hope, thou wouldst make God’s creation a partner with
Him, notwithstanding the fact that paradise is desired by men.2
Let not thy tongue pay lip service in praise of God while thy heart be not
attuned to the exalted Summit of Glory, and the Focal Point of communion.
Thus if haply thou dost live in the Day of Resurrection, the mirror of thy heart
will be set towards Him Who is the Day-Star of Truth ….3
Prayers
Prayers—so indispensable for an individual’s spiritual growth—are a vital
element of the teachings of the Ba b:  “… when the servant reciteth divine prayers,
fixing his gaze utterly upon God, he will be drawn unto the court of nearness, in such

The Ba b, Selections, pp. 93–94.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 77–78.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 93–94.

Dispensation of the Ba b
wise as none can comprehend save he whom God willeth.”1  The Ba b also affirmed
the conditions and requirement for praying:
… its prolongation hath not been and is not beloved by God.  The more
detached and the purer the prayer, the more acceptable is it in the presence
of God.2
Know thou that it is incumbent upon one who engageth in prayer, first
recognition of his Lord, then recognition of His attributes, then recognition
of the names of His Self, then of his object of search, then of his end ….  When
thou hast attained these stations it is irrevocable that God shall grant thy
prayer.3
The Ba b revealed supplications, devotions and orisons that are fathomless in
their depth, mysticism and sheer volume.  Selections of the Writings of the Báb is
the current primary source of these inspiring communions.  The compilation was
produced in the hope that the believers would increase “their longing to draw
nearer to the glorious spirit of Him Who was not only the Herald of the Faith but
the bearer of an independent Revelation [the Ba b] ….”4
At times, the written entreaties of the Ba b convey His longings to be closer to
God, praising and glorifying the Creator and revealing humility, awe and self-
effacement toward the Divinity:
Vouchsafe unto me, O my God, the full measure of Thy love and Thy good-
pleasure, and through the attractions of Thy resplendent light enrapture our
hearts, O Thou Who art the Supreme Evidence and the All-Glorified.  Send
down upon me, as a token of Thy grace, Thy vitalizing breezes, throughout
the daytime and in the night season, O Lord of bounty.5
Some other prayers, revealed for the believers’ individual use, are included in
Baha ’í  prayer books.  There are prayers available for general use, for the removal
of difficulties, for protection, detachment, families, forgiveness, nearness to God,
parents, spiritual growth, steadfastness, for dealing with tests, for the triumph of
the Cause, etc.
The Ba b also revealed a number of important prayers specific to the Ba bí
dispensation, such as a “prayer on the day of ‘arafah [the day before the Feast of
Sacrifices], and a morning prayer and prayers for the days of the week”,6 for the

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Tafsír-i-Súriy-i-Kawthar.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 78.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, “Phenomenology of Occultation and Prayer”, p. 205.
Research Department of the Universal House of Justice, Preface, Selections from the
Writings of the Báb, p. v.
Bahá’í Prayers, p. 149.
Behmardi & McCants, “A Stylistic Analysis of the Ba b’s Writings”, p. 121.

13.  Some prayers and invocations

new-born,1 etc.  These observance-oriented prayers were not mandated in the
Kita b-i-Aqdas or elsewhere by Baha ’u’lla h.  Therefore, they are not in current use.
The Ba b recommended in the Persian Baya n and the Dala ’il-i-Sab‘ih (“The
Seven Proofs”) that the following, well-known prayer should be repeated 314
times2:
Rid thou thyself of all attachments to aught except God, enrich thyself in God
by dispensing with all else besides Him, and recite this prayer:
Say:  God sufficeth all things above all things, and nothing in the heavens or
in the earth or in whatever lieth between them but God, thy Lord, sufficeth.
Verily, He is in Himself the Knower, the Sustainer, the Omnipotent.
Regard not the all-sufficing power of God as an idle fancy.  It is that genuine
faith which thou cherishest for the Manifestation of God in every
Dispensation.  It is such faith which sufficeth above all the things that exist
on the earth, whereas no created thing on earth besides faith would suffice
thee.  If thou art not a believer, the Tree of divine Truth would condemn thee
to extinction.  If thou art a believer, thy faith shall be sufficient for thee above
all things that exist on earth, even though thou possess nothing.3
Equally celebrated is another prayer of the Ba b:  “Is there any Remover of
difficulties save God?  Say:  Praised be God!  He is God!  All are His servants, and all
abide by His bidding!”4,5 Baha ’u’lla h Himself used to repeat this prayer.
Commenting on the moral decline that a large number of Ba bí s were experiencing
after the martyrdom of the Ba b, Baha ’u’lla h instructed a believer to “Tell them
[Ba bí s] to repeat it [the prayer] five hundred times, nay, a thousand times, by day
and night, sleeping and waking, that haply the Countenance of Glory may be
unveiled to their eyes, and tiers of light descend upon them.”6
The following short prayer was revealed by the Ba b for His wife Khadí jih
Bagum to read in times of difficulties.7  According to Nabí l:
He entrusted her with a special prayer, revealed and written by Himself,
the reading of which, He assured her, would remove her difficulties and
lighten the burden of her woes.  “In the hour of your perplexity,” He directed
her, “recite this prayer ere you go to sleep.  I Myself will appear to you and
will banish your anxiety.”  Faithful to His advice, every time she turned to

The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 5:11.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 9:6; Muha jir, Dr Muhajir, p. 674; & Bahá’í Prayers, p. 28.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 123.
Bahá’í Prayers, p. 29.
5  Muhammad Afnan,  The Invocation “Is There Any Remover of Difficulties Save God...”
(trans. Adib Masumian), 2006.
Baha ’u’lla h in Shoghi Effendi. God Pass By, p. 119.
Wendi Momen, A Basic Bahá’í Dictionary, p. 127.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Him in prayer, the light of His unfailing guidance illumined her path and
resolved her problems.1
Invocations
It is noteworthy that the Arabic invocation “Yá Alláhu’l-Mustagháth” (“O Thou
God Who art invoked” ) was revealed by the Ba b to be recited in times of distress,
emergencies or difficulties.2  It was used and recommended by ‘Abdu’l-Baha  and
Shoghi Effendi.3  According to Florence Khan “… this was the prayer repeated
over and over by the Master, as He paced His garden when the Turkish ship was
coming to take Him away.”4  The following is another account of the use of “Yá
Alláhu’l-Mustagháth” by ‘Abdu’l-Baha  when he was 11 years old:
It had happened when Bahá’u’lláh had been gone from Baghdád.  For some
two years.  At that time no one knew where He was and all hearts were sick
with the fear that they never would see Him again.  At this time Abdu’l-Bahá
was a small boy, and the continued absence of His Beloved Father had
become unendurable.  So, one night, all night long, the little boy (whom, even
then, Bahá’u’lláh referred to as The Master) paced restlessly up and down
saying, shouting, beseeching, “Yá Alláhu’l-Mustagháth” “Yá Alláhu’l-
Mustagháth”  all night long.  And in the morning, when dawn was breaking,
a messenger came to the door to say that a stranger was at the city gate and
had sent word to the Family that He wished them to bring to Him fresh
raiment and water to bathe in ….  So ‘Abdu’l-Bahá knew His beloved Father
had returned.5
Another popular invocation of the Ba b is “O God, my God, my Beloved, my
heart’s Desire”.6  When visiting the shrine of the Ima m H usayn, the Ba b uttered
this invocation with such “frequency and ardour that those of the visiting
pilgrims who were near enough to hear Him instinctively interrupted the course
of their devotions, and marvelled at the evidences of piety and veneration which
that youthful countenance evinced”.7
Concerning the use of this invocation, the Universal House of Justice has
explained:
While the invocation is prescribed in the Writings of the Ba b to be repeated
2098 times during occasions of great need, ‘Abdu’l-Baha  in one Tablet
states that this verse is to be repeated 95 times and, in another Tablet, 81
times.  Letters from the Guardian concerning this invocation, as well as

Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 192.  Author’s emphasis.
Letter of the Universal House of Justice, 25 November 1999.
Marzieh Gail, Arches of the Years, p. 310.
Florence Khan in Marzieh Gail, Arches of the Years, p. 312.
Muriel Newhall, Mother’s Stories, p. 6.
The Ba b in Balyuzi, The Báb, p. 45.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 30.

13.  Some prayers and invocations

other prayers, indicate that repetition is a matter of individual choice.  In
a postscript added in his own handwriting to a letter to an individual he
stated:
“There is no objection to saying “Ya  Ilaha’l-Mustaghath” any time you like
and as often as you like.”1

Many prayers are petitionary: for instance, we pray for healing, for protection,
for strength and for steadfastness.  One may supplicate God’s mercy and
forgiveness for oneself or for the soul of a departed one.  Some prayers may have
a special intention, such as the success of a teaching project.  Then there are
prayers of thanksgiving, or prayers purely in praise of God.
In the Ba bí -Baha ’í  Faith, we have been blessed with a multitude of prayers and
invocations for general or specific purposes.  Hence, these prayers have a
particular potency.  However, whatever the prayer, the ultimate motivation is
“remembrance of God” for the sake of the love of God.  And however seemingly
insignificant the supplication may be, the benefits that flow from the whole-
hearted and fervent “remembrance of God” are all-embracing.


Letter from the Universal House of Justice, 28 December 2001; & 25 November 1999.



Messages of the Báb for His family
In several passages of His writings, the Ba b refers to the members of His
family in exalted and tender terms as presented below.
The Ba b married Khadí jih Bagum in 1842.  Their only son died stillborn or
possibly in very early infancy.  Shoghi Effendi (1897–1957), the Guardian of the
Baha ’í  Faith, was the great-grandson of H a jí  Mí rza  Abu’l-Qa sim, an elder brother
to the wife of the Ba b.  Shoghi Effendi was also the great-grandson of Baha ’u’lla h.
The members of the family of the Ba b, both men and women, are known as
Afna n (“Twigs” in Arabic) of the sacred Lotus Tree.  “By ‘Afnán’,” Baha ’u’lla h
affirmed, “it is meant the kinsmen of the Primal Point, may the spirit of all be a
sacrifice unto Him.”1  The Lotus tree represents the Manifestation of God and
concurrently the boundary between the human and the divine beyond which
there is no passing (Qur’a n, 53:14)2  On the other hand, the male descendants of
Baha ’u’lla h are called Aghs a n (“Branches”).  A female descendant of the families
of the Ba b or Baha ’u’lla h is referred to as Waraqah (“Leaf”).3
The Ba b once affirmed, “Our kinsmen have been reckoned among the ‘Letters of
the Exalted.’  But not because they were deserving, nay, because of Our love for
them.”4
To His male relatives
O ye kinsmen of the Most Great Remembrance!  This Tree of Holiness, dyed
crimson with the oil of servitude, hath verily sprung forth out of your own
soil in the midst of the Burning Bush, yet ye comprehend nothing whatever
thereof, neither of His true, heavenly attributes, nor of the actual
circumstances of His earthly life, nor of the evidences of His powerful and
unblemished behavior.  Actuated by your own fancies, you consider Him to
be alien to the sovereign Truth, while in the estimation of God He is none
other than the Promised One Himself, invested with the power of the
sovereign Truth, and verily He is, as decreed in the Mother Book, held
answerable in the midst of the Burning Bush ….5

Baha ’u’lla h in Rabbani, “The Conversion of the Great-Uncle of the Ba b”, p. 29.
Christopher Buck, Symbol and Secret, p. 3.
Baharieh Ma‘ani, Leaves of the Twin Divine Trees, p. xix.
The Ba b in Rabbani, “The Conversion of the Great-Uncle of the Ba b”, p. 29.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 52.

14.  Messages of the Ba b for His family

To His female relatives
O Qurratu’l-‘Ayn!1  Deliver the summons of the most exalted Word unto the
handmaids among Thy kindred, caution them against the Most Great Fire
and announce unto them the joyful tidings that following this mighty
covenant there shall be everlasting reunion with God in the Paradise of His
good-pleasure, nigh unto the Seat of Holiness.  Verily God, the Lord of
creation, is potent over all things.2
His mother, Fáṭimih Bagum
The Ba b wrote to His mother, Fa t imih Bagum (1800 – d. 1881 in ‘Ira q):3
O Thou Mother of the Remembrance!  May the peace and salutation of God
rest upon thee.  Indeed thou hast endured patiently in Him Who is the
sublime Self of God.  Recognize then the station of thy Son Who is none other
than the mighty Word of God.  He hath verily pledged Himself to be
answerable for thee both in thy grave and on the Judgment Day, while thou
hast, in the Preserved Tablet of God, been immortalized as the “Mother of the
Faithful” by the Pen of His Remembrance.4
His wife, Khadíjih Bagum
The Ba b wrote to His wife, Khadí jih Bagum (1822 – d. 1882 in Shí ra z):5 6
O thou who art the chosen one among women!  He is God; glorified is the
splendor of His light.  The verses in this Tablet are revealed for the one who
hath believed in the signs of her Lord and is reckoned among such as are
wholly devoted unto Him.  Bear thou witness that verily no God is there but
Him, Who is both my Lord and thine, and that no other God besides Him

Qurratu’l-‘Ayn (“Solace of the Eyes”) is one of the titles of the Ba b.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 52.
3  “This is that which hath been now sent down from the Highest Realm of Glory: O
people! Know ye that We have singled out for special favour the mother of the Primal
Point, who hath been mentioned before the Throne as the most virtuous of all
handmaids [Khayru’n Nisa ’].” From a Tablet revealed by Bahá’u’lláh to Fa t imih Bagum
(Baharieh Rouhani Ma’ani, Leaves of the Twin Divine Trees, p. 24).
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 52–53.
Baharieh Ma‘ani, Leaves of the Twin Divine Trees, p. 29.
6  “…calamities have always been and will continue to be the lot of God’s chosen ones.
Therefore, blessed is the one who is satisfied with and thankful for all that hath
visited him. For nothing from God touches a person except what is best for him of all
that hath been created between the heavens and the earth. Since people are unaware
of this mystery and its secrets, they are saddened when calamity strikes. God willing,
thou wilt be always seated upon the seat of assurance and nourished with the fruits
of understanding. Verily, He is the best of all providers and protectors.” From a
Tablet revealed by Baha ’u’lla h to Khadí jih Bagum (Baharieh Rouhani Ma’ani, Leaves
of the Twin Divine Trees,  p.44).

Dispensation of the Ba b
existeth.  He is the Bountiful, the Almighty.  Yield thee thanks unto God, for
He hath graciously aided thee in this Day, revealed for thee the clear verses
of this Tablet, and hath numbered thee among such women as have believed
in the signs of God, have taken Him as their guardian and are of the grateful.
Verily God shall soon reward thee and those who have believed in His signs
with an excellent reward from His presence.  Assuredly no God is there other
than Him, the All-Possessing, the Most Generous.  The revelations of His
bounty pervade all created things; He is the Merciful, the Compassionate.1
O concourse of Light!  Hear My call from the point of Fire in this ocean of
snow-white water on this crimson earth.  Verily, I am God, besides Whom
there is no other God.  On the exalted throne a beloved noble woman, bearing
the same name [Khadíjih] as the beloved of the First Friend [the Prophet
Muḥammad], was wedded to this Great Remembrance.  And verily I caused
the angels of Heaven and the denizens of Paradise, on the day of the
Covenant, to bear witness, in truth, to God’s Remembrance.2

My sweet love, may God preserve thee. God is my witness that since the
time of separation sorrow has been so intense that it cannot be
described.3
His father, Siyyid Muḥammad Riḍá
A prayer of the Ba b for His father, Siyyid Muh ammad Rid a  (1787 – d. 1828 in
Shí ra z):4
O Lord our God!  Verily, my father hath died, having never beheld me invested
with the Greatest Word.  Impart my Cause unto him, O my Lord, as he
dwelleth with the angels of the heavenly Throne.  Make him steadfast in the
greatest word by your grace, and inscribe his name with such are deemed
praiseworthy in the estimation of the Remembrance (qustas al-zikr) in the
vicinity of the Báb.5
Regarding His son, Aḥmad
Messages of comfort to His wife for the loss of their son, Ah mad (d. 1843 in
Shí ra z)
O well-beloved!6  Value highly the grace of the Great Remembrance, for it
cometh from God, the Loved One.  Thou shalt not be a woman, like other
women, if thou obeyest God in the Cause of Truth, the greatest Truth.  Know
thou the great bounty conferred upon thee by the Ancient of Days, and take

The Ba b, Selections, p. 63.
The Ba b in Baharieh Ma‘ani, Leaves of the Twin Divine Trees, p. 32.
3  H.M. Balyuzi, Khadíjih Bagum: The Wife of the Báb, p. 36.
Dates provided by Amanat in Resurrection and Renewal, pp. 110–111.
The Ba b in Fereydun Vahman, “The Ba b”, p. 7.
The Ba b is addressing His wife.

14.  Messages of the Ba b for His family

pride in being the consort of the Well-Beloved, Who is loved by God, the
Greatest.  Sufficient unto thee is this glory which cometh unto thee from God,
the All-Wise, the All-Praised.  Be patient in all that God hath ordained
concerning the Báb and His Family.  Verily, thy son, Aḥmad, is with Fáṭimih,1
the Sublime, in the sanctified Paradise.2
O thou who art loved by the Supreme Beloved of My Lover!  Thou art unique
amongst women. …  Verily thy son Aḥmad is, in very truth, with the exalted
Fáṭimih, nurtured by knowledge in the heaven of holiness.3
Prayers for His son, Ah mad
All praise be to God Who bestowed upon the Solace of the Eyes [The Báb], in
His youth, Aḥmad.  We did verily raise him up unto God…O Solace of the Eyes!
Be patient in what thy God hath ordained for thee.  Verily he doeth
whatsoever He willeth.  He is the All-Wise in the exercise of His justice.  He is
thy Lord, the Ancient of Days, and praised be He in whatever He ordereth.4
O God, my God!  Would that a thousand Ishmaels were given Me, this
Abraham of Thine, that I might have offered them, each and all, as a loving
sacrifice unto Thee.  O my Beloved, my heart’s Desire!  The sacrifice of this
Aḥmad whom Thy servant ‘Alí-Muḥammad hath offered up on the altar of
Thy love can never suffice to quench the flame of longing in His heart.  Not
until He immolates His own heart at Thy feet, not until His whole body falls
a victim to the cruelest tyranny in Thy path, not until His breast is made a
target for countless darts for Thy sake, will the tumult of His soul be stilled.
O my God, my only Desire!  Grant that the sacrifice of My son, My only son,
may be acceptable unto Thee.  Grant that it be a prelude to the sacrifice of
My own, My entire self, in the path of Thy good pleasure.  Endue with Thy
grace My life-blood which I yearn to shed in Thy path.  Cause it to water and
nourish the seed of Thy Faith.  Endow it with Thy celestial potency, that this
infant seed of God may soon germinate in the hearts of men, that it may
thrive and prosper, that it may grow to become a mighty tree, beneath the
shadow of which all the peoples and kindreds of the earth may gather.
Answer Thou My prayer, O God, and fulfil My most cherished desire.  Thou
art, verily, the Almighty, the All-Bountiful.5
The Afnán as celebrated by Bahá’u’lláh
Verily, in this Dispensation, all have been summoned to the Most Exalted
Horizon and guided to the Most Great Ocean.  At the beginning of Our Days,
a special prayer was revealed for the Afnán, which ordained that they would
be faithful to the Manifestation of God and recognize Him.  God willing, they

The daughter of the Prophet Muh ammad.
The Ba b in Baharieh Ma‘ani, Leaves of the Twin Divine Trees, p. 32.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 153.
The Ba b in Balyuzi, The Báb, p. 47.
The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 76–77.

Dispensation of the Ba b
will arise to fulfil what hath been decreed for them and will remain firm and
steadfast in the Cause of God.  Blessed are those whom We have called by this
name, Afnán.  Verily, the sweet fragrance of the All-Merciful hath been
wafted from them.  Moreover, We have established them as twigs of Our own
Tree.  Verily, this is Our favor upon them.  We beseech God to protect them
from the traces of the pen and the veils of knowledge.  We have bestowed this
gift on some in the Book, the contents of which are concealed from all save
the Lord of Creation.  Soon what hath been ordained for them by the
Almighty, the All-knowing, will appear.1

Of all the quotations from the Writings of the Ba b presented in this volume,
the ones cited in the present chapter show the Ba b at His most tender.  Indeed,
all those who have been addressed, have been exalted through no merit of their
own but simply because of the profound love that the Ba b bore for them.


Baha ’u’lla h in Mí rza  Afna n, The Genesis of the Bábí-Bahá’í Faiths, p. 296.











Part III
The Bábí and Bahá’í Revelations



He Whom God shall make Manifest:  His station and influence
This chapter continues the discussion commenced in chapter 6 about Him
Whom God shall make Manifest as elaborated on mainly in the Baya n.
In the Writings of the Ba b, the expression “He/Him Whom God shall make
Manifest” refers to Baha ’u’lla h.
The Figure of “Man Yuẓhiruhu’lláh”1 provides for the continuation and
extension of the Faith of the Ba b towards its own fulfilment.  The main part of the
mission of the Ba b, in the words of the Hand of the Cause A. Q. Faizi, was to plant
“the seeds of love and obedience to the Promised One in the hearts of the Ba bí s.”2
This Figure was first mentioned in the second year of the Revelation of the Ba b
in a Tablet specifically addressed to “… the All Glorious Lord—He Who hath been
aforetime and will be hereafter made manifest.”3
The Ba b referred to Him Whom God shall make Manifest explicitly as Bahá
(“Glory”, “Splendor” or “Light”), and addressed Baha ’u’lla h with that name.4  The
given name of Baha ’u’lla h was Mí rza  H usayn ‘Alí .  In the Persian Baya n, the Ba b
refers to the future “Order of Baha ’u’lla h”.5  Likewise, the Ba b wrote in the
Qayyu mu’l-Asma ’ about the relationship of His Inner essence with the “Spirit of
Bahá”:
By the righteousness of the One true God, I am the Maid of Heaven begotten
by the Spirit of Bahá, abiding within the Mansion hewn out of a mass of ruby,
tender and vibrant ….6
“Between Bahá’u’lláh and the Báb there was communication privately.”
‘Abdu’l-Baha  said, “The Báb wrote a letter to Him in which the name Bahá’u’lláh
was incorporated 360 times.”7  The Hand of the Cause A. Q. Faizí , wrote in this
regard that, “The Ba b adored the name ‘Baha ’ and used it profusely in all His
Writings.  He even made many derivatives from this one word and wrote them
out in a Tablet which had the form of a five-pointed star, symbolizing the human

Man Yuẓhiruhu’lláh (يظهره هللا من), “Him Whom God shall make manifest”.
Faizi, Penned by A. Q. Faizi, pp. 236–237.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 4.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 293.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 146–147.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 54.
‘Abdu’l-Baha  in Star of the West, III:9, 20 August 1912, p. 3.

15.  He Whom God shall make manifest, Section I

temple.”1  Baha ’u’lla h was the recipient of that Tablet.2  Baha ’u’lla h and the Ba b
never met physically.3
The concurrence of the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h led to their joint designation as
the “Twin Manifestations of God”.  This title links to the visions referred to by
Zecharias as the “Two Anointed” (4:14)4 and by John the Evangelist in his
Apocalypse as the two “woes” (Revelation 9:12), the “Two Witnesses”, the “Two
Olive Trees” and the “Two Candlesticks” (Revelation 11:3–5) that would appear in
the last days.5  Similarly, in the Zoroastrian religion two figures were expected,
Ushida r-Ma h and the Sha h Bahram.6
Muh ammad made a similar prophecy:  “Verily I say, after the Qá’im [“He Who
shall arise”] the Qayyúm [“the Self-Subsisting”] will be made manifest.”7  In the
Qur’án He told of the Day when two Divine Messengers would appear. Prophet
Muhammad had said:

And there was a blast on the trumpet, and all who are in the heavens and
all who are in the earth expired, save those whom God permitted to live.
Then was there sounded another blast, and, lo! arising, they gazed
around them. And the earth shone with the light of her Lord, and the
Book was set, and the Prophets were brought up, and the witnesses; and
judgment was given between them with equity; and none was wronged.8
Similarly, an Islamic tradition cited by Bukhari affirms:
At the time of the end God shall manifest himself to all mankind with the
attributes of divinity and majesty, but very few shall advance towards him ….
Then again he will appear a second time manifesting all the qualities of
servitude and the people will flock around him and believe in him and praise
and laud his uncreated virtues.9
This chapter deals with the role of Baha ’u’lla h as “Him Whom God shall make
Manifest”, then, reflects upon the act of believing in Him and observing His
exhortations.  The act of believing in Him and observing His exhortations are then
considered.  In this chapter the name of Baha ’u’lla h is used interchangeably in the
context of Him Whom God shall make Manifest.


Faizi, Penned by A. Q. Faizi, p. 34.
Hasan Balyuzi, The Báb, pp. 151–152.
Baha ’í  World Centre, “Whether Baha ’u’lla h and the Ba b Met”.
William Sears, Thief in the Night, p. 93.
William Sears, Thief in the Night, p. 93.
William Sears, Thief in the Night, p. 92.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 41.  Author’s emphasis.
8  Qur’a n 39:60, cited in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 41.
William Sears, Thief in the Night, p. 92.

Dispensation of the Ba b
The Ba b counselled the people of His time about how to approach and interact
with Him Whom God shall make Manifest at the time of His appearance.
The themes in this chapter are arranged in the following order:
•
Greatness of Him Whom God shall make Manifest (Baha ’u’lla h)
•
Writings of Baha ’u’lla h compared to the Baya n
•
The station of Baha ’u’lla h
•
Proof and testimony of Him Whom God shall make Manifest
•
Praise for the station of Him Whom God shall make Manifest
•
Period between the Revelations of the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h
•
Believing in Him Whom God shall make Manifest
•
Greatness of Him Whom God shall make Manifest (Baha ’u’lla h)
Greatness of Him Whom God shall make Manifest
The Writings of the Ba b consistently explained the exalted position of the
upcoming Messenger of God.  In 1844 He directed Mulla  H usayn to Tehran and
advised him that the city “enshrines a Mystery of such transcendent holiness as …
Shíráz (His own birthplace) cannot hope to rival.”1
“[A]ny reference, revealed by God,” the Ba b wrote, “to meeting God or attaining
the presence of the Lord intendeth naught but Him Whom God shall make
Manifest.”2  Moreover, the Ba b exhorted, “Do not desire for Him Whose presence is
none other than My Own presence that which ye would not wish for yourselves.”3
Baha ’u’lla h is referred to in the Writings of the Ba b in the most superlative
terms.  For instance, in His first book, the Qayyu mu’l-Asma ’, the Ba b wrote:
Exalted art Thou, O my Lord the Omnipotent!  How puny and contemptible
my word and all that pertaineth unto me appear unless they be related to
Thy great glory.  Grant that through the assistance of Thy grace whatsoever
pertaineth unto me may be acceptable in Thy sight.4
And when the appointed hour hath struck, do Thou, by the leave of God, the
All-Wise, reveal from the heights of the Most Lofty and Mystic Mount a faint,
an infinitesimal glimmer of Thy impenetrable Mystery, that they who have
recognized the radiance of the Sinaic Splendor may faint away and die as
they catch a lightning glimpse of the fierce and crimson Light that envelops
Thy Revelation.5
Out of utter nothingness, O great and omnipotent Master Thou hast, through
the celestial potency of Thy might, brought me forth and raised me up to
proclaim this Revelation.  I have made none other but Thee my trust; I have

The Ba b in Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 96.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 354.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Logos and Civilization, p. 120.
The Ba b in Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 101.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 53.

15.  He Whom God shall make manifest, Section I

clung to no will but Thy Will.  Thou art, in truth, the All-Sufficing and behind
Thee standeth the true God, He Who overshadoweth all things.  Indeed
sufficient unto Me is God, the Exalted, the Powerful, the Sustainer.1
The Ba b asserts in His Writings that no one can fully understand the station
of Him Whom God shall make Manifest:
No created thing comprehendeth Him, while He in truth comprehendeth all
things.  Even when it is said ‘no created thing comprehendeth Him’, this
refers to the Mirror of His Revelation, that is Him Whom God shall make
Manifest.  Indeed too high and exalted is He for anyone to allude unto Him.2
In the Baya n, special divine powers are attributed to Baha ’u’lla h:
Blazes of hell-fire will God transform into light by Him Whom God shall make
Manifest, and lights shall He transform into blazes of hell-fire by Him.3
The Ba b compares the greatness of Him Whom God shall make Manifest with
the Sun:
He resembleth the sun.  Were it to shine forth infinite times from infinite
horizons, it would be the same sun.  Naught hath been created by God except
for the sake of Him, for it is only through Him that anything reacheth up to
God.4
The Ba b declares Himself as the First to believe in Him:
He [the Báb] is the First to believe in Him Whom God will make manifest, and
He is the First Who hath believed in Him Who hath been manifested.5
Verily, we have believed in Thee and in Thy signs ere the dawn of Thy
Manifestation, and in Thee are we all well assured.  Verily, we have believed
in Thee and in Thy signs after the fulfillment of Thy Manifestation, and in
Thee do we all believe.  Verily, we have believed in Thee and in Thy signs at
the hour of Thy Manifestation and bear witness that through Thine
injunction “Be Thou” all things have been created.6
This recognition has been through Baha ’u’lla h in the immortal realm:
I have attained the recognition of Thee through Thine Own Self before the
dwellers of the heavens and the earth, bearing witness that Thou art in truth
the Almighty, the All-Praised.7

The Ba b, Selections, p. 59.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 113.
The Ba b in Hasan Balyuzi, Edward Granville Browne, p. 84.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Introduction to the Tablet to Báqir, p. 10.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 198.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 4.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 4–5.

Dispensation of the Ba b
From all eternity I have indeed recognized Thee and unto all eternity will
ever do so through Thine Own Self and not through anyone else besides
Thee.1
The Ba b expresses His humility before Baha ’u’lla h:
Thus, were I to find Him alone, in His transcendent unity, I would bow down,
unhesitatingly, before Him, solely on account of His intrinsic supreme worth,
inasmuch as that kneeling is naught but adoration for Thee in Thy oneness,
for there is none other God but Thee.2
In truth I Myself am the first to bow down before God and to believe in Him…
However, when the Tree of the Bayán attaineth its highest development, We
shall bend it low as a token of adoration towards its Lord Who will appear
in the person of Him Whom God will make manifest.3
Such is His devotion that the Ba b also asks for forgiveness from Him Whom
God shall make Manifest:
From everlasting I have besought and unto everlasting will beseech
forgiveness for my limited understanding of Thee, aware as I am that there
is no God but Thee, the All-Glorious, the Almighty.4
The Ba b also offers to lay down His life for the sake of Baha ’u’lla h:
O Thou Remnant of God!  I have sacrificed myself wholly for Thee; I have
accepted curses for Thy sake, and have yearned for naught but martyrdom
in the path of Thy love.  Sufficient witness unto me is God, the Exalted, the
Protector, the Ancient of Days.5
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh compared to the Bayán
Though the Ba b magnifies Him Whom God shall make Manifest in His books
and epistles, He also acknowledges that His words cannot do justice to the
Writings of Him Whom God shall make Manifest:
Of all the tributes I have paid to Him Who is to come after Me, the greatest is
this, My written confession, that no words of Mine can adequately describe
Him, nor can any reference to Him in My Book, the Bayán, do justice to His
Cause.6

The Ba b, Selections, p. 4.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Introduction to the Tablet to Báqir, p. 3.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 167.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 4.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 59.
The Ba b in Baha ’u’lla h. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 10.

15.  He Whom God shall make manifest, Section I

For example, He says that “a thousand perusals of the Bayán cannot equal the
perusal of a single verse to be revealed by Him Whom God shall make manifest1
He further states:
Say, every favorable and praiseworthy designation in the Bayán is but an
allusion to those who recognize Him Whom God will make manifest, and who
believe with certainty in God and in His holy Writings, while every
unfavorable designation therein is meant to refer to such as repudiate Him
Whom God will make manifest, though they may act uprightly within the
bounds laid down in the Bayán.2
And should anyone inscribe with true faith but one letter of that Revelation
[Bahá’u’lláh], his recompense would be greater than for inscribing all the
heavenly Writings of the past and all that has been written during previous
Dispensations.3
The Ba b states that “the Revealer of the Bayán knoweth its beginning and end,
which is none other than Him Whom God will make manifest.4  The fact that the
Baya n emanated from Baha ’u’lla h5 confers a sense of the importance of this Holy
Book in the Ba bí -Baha ’í  dispensation. In this respect,  Baha ’u’lla h stated:

In this Day the Bayán is conditioned and dependent upon the acceptance of
this Most Great Revelation. We, verily, did send down unto My Herald that
which caused the Books of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting, to rejoice.
We sent it unto Him and, when it reached Him and He perused it, He was so
transported by the breaths of Revelation that with His whole being He soared
into Mine atmosphere, and purposed to attain My presence and to stand before
My face. Such was the vibrant influence of Our words upon Him as no tongue
can ever tell, nor any pen recount. To this testifieth the Mother Book in this,
the Day of Return. We, verily, concealed the root of the Cause in order to ensure
its preservation—this in token of Our wisdom, and I, truly, am the All-Glorious,
the Unconstrained.6
The station of Bahá’u’lláh
The Writings of the Ba b articulate the exalted position of Baha ’u’lla h as the
Primal Will and the Messenger of God to appear on the Day of Resurrection.  This
section explores what the Ba b wrote about Baha ’u’lla h’s divine prerogatives as

The Ba b, Selections, p. 104.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 138.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 91.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 290.
The Ba b. Persian Baya n 6:1; 6:16.
6  Baha ’u’lla h,
The
Bahá’í
Reference
Library.

Available
from:
https://www.bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/bahaullah/additional-tablets-
extracts-from-tablets-revealed-bahaullah/additional-tablets-extracts-from-tablets-
revealed-bahaullah.pdf?369f2267

Dispensation of the Ba b
the Supreme Manifestation of God for this age, and the relationship between the
Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h
As the Primal Will
The Ba b refers to the manifest station of Baha ’u’lla h as the Primal Will:
All, according to their capacity, are enjoined to love Him and recognize Him
and traverse the path of the Seas of Names and Attributes.  Should it be
beyond their power, however, God hath ordained for Him a different station
and a lesser course, which is to recognize His manifest station, known also as
the Sun of Truth, the Primal Creation, the Primal Will, the Eternal Sun. …  It
is within this lesser station that after the utterance, ‘There is none other God
but God,’ servitude and its association with the Manifestation of each divine
Revelation have been mentioned.1
As the Supreme Manifestation of God
The Ba b states that all Manifestations of God have been generated by the
actions of Baha ’u’lla h:
Every Manifestation is but a revelation of Thine Own Self, with each of Whom
we have truly appeared and we bow down in adoration before Thee.2
He it is Who, by a mere vibration of His eternal and Holy Tongue, createth,
instantly, Whomsoever He willeth of Prophets, Vicegerents, Men of truth or
Pure Ones.  Inasmuch as all Guides and Messengers are His creation, and all
are sent forth by Him, they all emphatically proclaimed:  There is none other
God but God.  Await anxiously for the One Whose Countenance shall remind
you of God.  For, verily, but for attaining His presence ye would not have been
created.  He it is Who createth all things at His behest.3
Furthermore, all previous revelations were created for the Revelation of
Baha ’u’lla h, which is the consummation of all previous religions:
… and all [previous] Revelations and this Revelation and the Revelation of
Him Whom God will make manifest were created for the Revelation of Him
who shall come after Him Whom God will make manifest (ba’d man yuzhiruh
Alláh).  And all these Revelations [were] for the coming of the One after the
One after Him Whom God will make manifest.  And in this manner incessantly
the Sun of Truth shines forth and sets, without beginning or end.4
Divine prerogatives of Bahá’u’lláh
The Ba b stated that He Whom God shall make manifest can appoint any person
a Prophet:

Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 185.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 4.
The Ba b in Saiedi, Nader. Introduction to the Tablet to Báqir, p. 7.
The Ba b in Eschraghi, “Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy”, p. 227.

15.  He Whom God shall make manifest, Section I

Were He to make of every one on earth a Prophet, all would, in very truth, be
accounted as Prophets in the sight of God.1
In the day of the revelation of Him Whom God will make manifest all that
dwell on earth will be equal in His estimation.  Whomsoever He ordaineth as
a Prophet, he, verily, hath been a Prophet from the beginning that hath no
beginning, and will thus remain until the end that hath no end, inasmuch as
this is an act of God.  And whosoever is made a Vicegerent by Him, shall be a
Vicegerent in all the worlds, for this is an act of God.2
Similarly, the Ba b says that Him Whom God shall make Manifest is effectively
the Mouthpiece of God:
The light of the people of the world is their knowledge and utterance; while
the splendors shed from the glorious acts of Him Whom God will make
manifest are His Words, through whose potency He rolleth up the whole
world of existence, sets it under His Own authority by relating it unto Himself,
then as the Mouthpiece of God, the Source of His divine light—exalted and
glorified be He—proclaimeth:  “Verily, verily, I am God, no God is there but
Me; in truth all others except Me are My creatures.  Say, O My creatures!  Me
alone, therefore, should ye fear.”3
Relationship between the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh
The Ba b states that He was manifested because of Him Whom God shall make
Manifest:
Cling thou to His Will, inasmuch as the Day of His Revelation is the life to
come in relation to this life; and were it not for His Book, This Book would
not have been revealed; and were it not for Him, God would not have revealed
Me.  I am verily, Him, and He verily, is Me.4
The Ba b also states that They comprise a single reality:
Therefore let not your recognition become fruitless, inasmuch as the Bayán,
notwithstanding the sublimity of its station, beareth fealty to Him Whom God
will make manifest, and it is He Who beseemeth most to be acclaimed as the
Seat of divine Reality, though indeed He is I and I am He.5
Such a unity will be evident on the day of the appearance of Him Whom God
shall make Manifest:

The Ba b in Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 155.
The Ba b in Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 155.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 98.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Modernity in the Writings of the Báb, p. 3.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 167–168.

Dispensation of the Ba b
All things return unto, and by, this Indivisible One Being.  During the next
Resurrection, this Indivisible One Being is naught but the very being of Him
Whom God will make manifest ….1
Proof and testimony of Him Whom God shall make Manifest
The Ba b states that the verses of Baha ’u’lla h will verify the divine truth of His
Mission.  He writes:  “Certitude itself is ashamed to be called upon to certify His
truth … and Testimony itself is ashamed to testify unto Him.”2  Furthermore, as
previously stated, in the Persian Baya n, the Ba b made mention of a “Living Book”,
identifying it as Him Whom God will make manifest [Baha ’u’lla h].3
The Ba b states that the testimony of Baha ’u’lla h’s is like the sun:
If at the time of the appearance of Him Whom God will make manifest all the
dwellers of the earth were to bear witness unto a thing whereunto He
beareth witness differently, His testimony would be like unto the sun, while
theirs would be even as a false image produced in a mirror which is not
facing the sun.  For had it been otherwise their testimony would have proved
a faithful reflection of His testimony.4
The Ba b also states that the verses of Baha ’u’lla h are His ultimate proof:
Recognize Him by His verses.  The greater your neglect in seeking to know
Him, the more grievously will ye be veiled in fire.5
His verses are, by themselves, sufficient proof of the radiant lights of the Sun
of His Being, just as the powerlessness of all is the mighty evidence of the
utter need and dependence of all upon Him.6
Moreover, such a truth is so sublime that it is unmistakable in relation to any
other writings:
On the Day of Resurrection when He Whom God will make manifest cometh
unto you, invested with conclusive proofs, ye shall hold His Cause as being
devoid of truth, whereas God hath apprised you in the Bayán that no
similarity existeth between the Cause of Him Whom God will make manifest
and the cause of others.7
The Ba b writes that one verse from Baha ’u’lla h is more magnificent than the
entire world’s literature:

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 266.
The Ba b in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 30.
The Ba b in Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 231.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 100.
The Ba b in Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 159.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 371.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 134.

15.  He Whom God shall make manifest, Section I

I swear by the most sacred Essence of God that but one line of the Words
uttered by Him is more sublime than the words uttered by all that dwell on
earth.  Nay, I beg forgiveness for making this comparison.  How could the
reflections of the sun in the visible heaven compare with the wondrous rays
of the sun in the visible heaven?  The station of one is that of nothingness,
while the station of the other, by the righteousness of God—hallowed and
magnified be His Name—is that of the Reality of things ….1
The teachings of the “Twin Manifestations” reinforce each other.  For example,
the Ba b explained that Baha ’u’lla h will come to perfect His own revelation as “He
is made manifest in order to gather the fruits of the trees He hath planted ….2  That
is, the appearance of Baha ’u’lla h will vindicate the Cause of the Ba b:
Say, He Whom God shall make manifest will surely redeem the rights of those
who truly believe in God and in His signs, for they are the ones who merit
reward from His presence ….  Say, He shall vindicate the Cause through the
potency of His command and shall bring to naught all perversion of truth by
virtue of His behest.  Verily God is potent over all things.3
Praise for the station of Him Whom God shall make Manifest
According to the Ba b, He Whom God shall make manifest is like the sun,
independent of all beneath it:
He—glorified be His mention—resembleth the sun.  Were unnumbered
mirrors to be placed before it, each would, according to its capacity, reflect
the splendor of that sun, and were none to be placed before it, it would still
continue to rise and set, and the mirrors alone would be veiled from its light.4
Praise be to God that He hath enabled us to become cognizant of Him Whom
God will make manifest in the Day of Resurrection, so that we may derive
benefit from the fruit of our existence and be not deprived of attaining the
presence of God.  For indeed this is the object of our creation and the sole
purpose underlying every virtuous deed we may perform.  Such is the bounty
which God hath conferred upon us; verily He is the All-Bountiful, the
Gracious.5
The glory of Him Whom God will make manifest is immeasurably above every
other glory, and His majesty is far above every other majesty.  His beauty
excelleth every other embodiment of beauty, and His grandeur immensely
exceedeth every other manifestation of grandeur.  Every light paleth before
the radiance of His light, and every other exponent of mercy falleth short
before the tokens of His mercy.  Every other perfection is as naught in face of
His consummate perfection, and every other display of might is as nothing

The Ba b, Selections, p. 100.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 107–108.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 141.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 156.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 110.

Dispensation of the Ba b
before His absolute might.  His names are superior to all other names.  His
good-pleasure taketh precedence over any other expression of good-
pleasure.  His preeminent exaltation is far above the reach of every other
symbol of exaltation.  The splendor of His appearance far surpasseth that of
any other appearance.  His divine concealment is far more profound than
any other concealment.  His loftiness is immeasurably above every other
loftiness.  His gracious favor is unequalled by any other evidence of favor.  His
power transcendeth every power.  His sovereignty is invincible in the face of
every other sovereignty.  His celestial dominion is exalted far above every
other dominion.  His knowledge pervadeth all created things, and His
consummate power extendeth over all beings.1
Period between the two Revelations
The Ba b often referred in His Writings to the imminence of the appearance of
Baha ’u’lla h, “Verily, the Rising of the Sun to its zenith is at hand and yet do ye not
recognise that Day.”2
The Ba b specified two periods to denote the length of time between the start
of the two Revelations:  namely, from His own declaration in 1844 to the first
intimations of the mission of Baha ’u’lla h in the Sí ya h-Cha l in 1853 (nine years);
and from His own declaration to the public declaration of Baha ’u’lla h in Baghda d
in 1863 (nineteen years).
Year nine
In several passages, the Ba b refers to the year nine, meaning the lapse of time
since His revelation began in 1844.  This prophecy was fulfilled with the first
indications of the mission of Baha ’u’lla h, which were hidden from the community.
Baha ’u’lla h attributes the following statements to the Ba b:
“In the year nine ye will attain unto all good.”  “In the year nine ye will attain
unto the Presence of God.”  “In the year nine ye shall attain unto all good.” …
“In the year nine ye will attain unto the Presence of God.”3
Ere nine will have elapsed from the inception of this Cause, the realities of
the created things will not be made manifest.  All that thou hast as yet seen
is but the stage from the moist germ until We clothed it with flesh.  Be patient,
until thou beholdest a new creation.  Say:  ‘Blessed, therefore, be God, the
most excellent of Makers!’4
This, verily, is that which We promised thee, ere the moment We answered
thy call.  Wait thou until nine will have elapsed from the time of the Bayán.
Then exclaim:  ‘Blessed be God, the most excellent of Makers!’5

The Ba b, Selections, pp. 156–157.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Logos and Civilization, p. 120.
The Ba b cited in Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 141.
The Ba b cited in Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 152.
The Ba b cited in Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 142.

15.  He Whom God shall make manifest, Section I

The Ba b also referred to the year AH 1268 (CE 1853):  “After Ḥín (68)1 a Cause
shall be given unto you which ye shall come to know.”2
Shoghi Effendi makes the following statement about the words of Baha ’u’lla h
in reference to the “year nine”:
“Behold,” Bahá’u’lláh further explains in the Kitáb-i-Badí‘, one of His works
refuting the arguments of the people of the Bayán, “behold, how
immediately upon the completion of the ninth year of this wondrous, this
most holy and merciful Dispensation, the requisite number of pure, of wholly
consecrated and sanctified souls had been most secretly consummated.”3
Nineteen-year respite
In addition to the “year nine” prophecies, there are also references in the
Writings of the Ba b to a nineteen-year respite period.  This is the duration of the
Dispensation of the Ba b.
… do Thou grant a respite of nineteen years as a token of Thy favor so that
those who have embraced this Cause may be graciously rewarded by Thee.4
This nineteen-year term was consummated in 1863 when Baha ’u’lla h declared
His station to the Ba bí s gathered in the Garden of Rid va n in Baghda d.  In this
regard, the Ba b warned His followers to “be attentive from the inception of the
Revelation till the number of Váḥid (19)”,5 because “The Lord of the Day of
reckoning” would be “manifested at the end of Váḥid (19) and the beginning of
eighty (AH 1280).”6
There is another reference to the number nineteen in the Persian Baya n:
As to the Revelation of Him Whom God will make manifest, God knoweth the
age at which He maketh Him to become manifest.  However, from the
inception of the Revelation till nineteen years (the number of unity), take
heed and be watchful, inasmuch as each year the faith of the believers will
be manifested through the affirmation of a different Letter, after which they
will not be able to manifest the fruits of the past Revelation except through
the next Revelation.7
The time of his appearance
In terms of the exact timing of His appearance, the Ba b explains that nobody
knows when He Whom God shall make manifest will appear:

Abjad value of Ḥín.
The Ba b cited in Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 152.
Baha ’u’lla h cited in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 124.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 7.
See the Ba b in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 29.
See the Ba b in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 29.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 356.

Dispensation of the Ba b
For none knoweth the time of the Revelation except God.  Whenever it
appeareth, all must acknowledge the Point of Truth, and render thanks unto
God.1
Whenever the people ask Thee of the appointed Hour say:  Verily the
knowledge of it is only with My Lord, Who is the Knower of the unseen.2
Thus in the Baya n and other Writings, the Ba b alerts the Bábís to be on
guard while awaiting Baha ’u’lla h:
At all times, await the beginning of the Revelation (awwal-i-ẓuhúr).  Should
you hesitate for less than a moment you will be counted among the ‘new
[converts]’ in the sight of God.  Just as you call today those non-Muslims who
enter Islam.3
The allusion to ‘new converts’ (jadíd al-Islámí) in the above quotation refers
to the Islamic tradition of according a lower status to Muslim converts—many of
whom had been coerced by the sword—in comparison to believers who had been
born into the faith or whose families had been Muslims for generations.
However, in the teachings of the Ba b, true believers are those who come to the
Faith through their own search for truth, rather than by imitating the beliefs of
their forebears, religious instructors or peers.
What is important in the context of the rest of this chapter of the Baya n, in
which the Ba b exalted the station of the 18 Letters of the Living beyond any of the
apostles of old, is the emphasis He places on the instant recognition by His
followers of Him Whom God shall make Manifest.  For, if any of his most exalted
followers—they who had immediately accepted His own revelation—should
hesitate even for an instant before accepting Baha ’u’lla h, their station would be
of no higher worth than any other convert to the Baha ’í  Faith.4
He Whom God shall make manifest is among the believers
The Ba b states in His Writings that He Whom God shall make manifest is like a
normal human being:
Say, He Whom God shall make manifest is but one of you; He will make
Himself known unto you on the Day of Resurrection.  Ye shall know God when
the Manifestation of His Own Self is made known unto you, that perchance
ye may not stray far from His Path.5

The Ba b in Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 157.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 65.
Persian Baya n 6:13 (prov. tr.) in Armin Eschraghi, “Undermining the Foundations of
Orthodoxy”, p. 230.
With appreciation to Mr Nasser Saeedi, Australia, for his help in unravelling the
significance of the above quotation.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 144.

15.  He Whom God shall make manifest, Section I

There are also indications that the interval between the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h
would be a period of relative obscurity.  For the Ba b, purgatory is the period
between two Manifestations of God rather than the Christian concept of being a
place for suffering where people expiate their sins.1  The Ba b also used the term
“Days of Concealment” for the period between Himself and Baha ’u’lla h.2  The Ba b
anticipated a period of confusion between His passing and the advent of Him
Whom God shall make Manifest:
The day will come when ye will earnestly desire to know that which would
meet with the good-pleasure of God but, alas, ye shall find no path unto Him.
Ye, even as camels that wander aimlessly, will not find a pasture wherein ye
may gather and unite upon a Cause in which ye can assuredly believe.  At
that time God shall cause the Sun of Truth to shine forth and the oceans of
His bounty and grace to surge, while ye will have chosen droplets of water as
the object of your desire, and will have deprived yourselves of the plenteous
waters in His oceans.3
The people, during the absence of the Báb, re-enacted the episode of the Calf
by setting up a blaring figure which embodied animal features in human
form ….4
However, the Ba b reassures the Ba bí s that they will be always guided from
the realms above even after His passing:
Today, from the inception of the Revelation of the Bayán until the advent of
Him Whom God will make manifest, all attainment of exaltation by anyone
is a token reflection of the exalted station of the Point of Unity and the
Dayspring of the Morn of Eternity.5
However, in order to be guided, the Ba bí s must abide by the teachings of the
Baya n:
We have planted the Garden of the Bayán in the name of Him Whom God will
make manifest, and have granted you permission to live therein until the
time of His manifestation; then from the moment the Cause of Him Whom
God will make manifest is inaugurated, We forbid you all the things ye hold
as your own, unless ye may, by the leave of your Lord, be able to regain
possession thereof.6
In relation to the aforementioned unusually short interval of time between
two consecutive Manifestations of God, Shoghi Effendi commented:

The Ba b, Persian Baya n 2:8.
See Muh ammad Afna n, “Ayya m-i-Butu n”.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 136.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 65.  The Golden Calf was an idol made and worshipped by the
Jewish people during Moses’s absence on Mount Sinai. (Exodus 32)
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 193.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 135.

Dispensation of the Ba b
The short duration of His Dispensation, the restricted range within which
His laws and ordinances have been made to operate, supply no criterion
whatever wherewith to judge its Divine origin and to evaluate the potency
of its message.  “That so brief a span,” Bahá’u’lláh Himself explains, “should
have separated this most mighty and wondrous Revelation from Mine own
previous Manifestation, is a secret that no man can unravel and a mystery
such as no mind can fathom.  Its duration had been foreordained, and no
man shall ever discover its reason unless and until he be informed of the
contents of My Hidden Book.”1

One of the most important points to be gleaned from the Writings of the Ba b
quoted in this chapter is that He Whom God shall make manifest was already
present amongst the Ba bí s at the time—a Man amongst men.  Yet, although
physically the Manifestations of God are members of the human race—i.e. those
whom science has classified as Homo sapiens—spiritually, the Manifestation
belongs to a completely separate category of God’s Creation.
He whom God shall make manifest is certainly a recurring and a central theme
in the Writings of the Ba b, particularly in the Persian Baya n.  Shoghi stated that
the Persian Baya n should be considered a tribute to the Promised One more than
a code of laws.  In this regard, Baha ’u’lla h wrote in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas:
God is My witness that the Bayán was sent down for no other purpose than
to celebrate My praise, did ye but know.  In it the pure in heart will find only
the fragrance of My love, only My Name that overshadoweth all that seeth
and is seen.2
The Ba b Himself stated that His laws were not permanent but were in force
for a short time until the coming of Baha ’u’lla h.  They had a transitory character
like a bridge between the Islamic and the Baha ’í  dispensations annulling under
its span the religious laws from previous faiths and creeds facilitating thus the
enunciation of new laws as it happened when Baha ’u’lla h revealed the Kita b-i-
Aqdas in 1873.
When the declaration of Baha 'u'lla h as the Supreme Manifestation of God
occurred in the year 1863 as predicted, the way was paved; and great numbers of
joyous Ba bí s were already prepared and waiting to accept the new divine
summons.
It is noteworthy that many believers recognized Baha ’u’lla h’s sublime station
before the 1863 declaration.  T a hirih wrote the following tribute about
Baha ’u’lla h:

Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 123–124.
Baha ’u’lla h, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 179, pp. 84–85

15.  He Whom God shall make manifest, Section I

The effulgence of the Abhá Beauty hath pierced the veil of night; behold
the souls of His lovers dancing, moth-like, in the light that has flashed from
His face!1
The next chapter will explore various themes from the Writings of the Ba b
pertaining to the belief in and acceptance of Baha 'u'lla h as “Him Whom God shall
make Manifest”.


T a hirih in Dawn-Breakers, p. 286.



Image Section 3











































Figure 33: Tablet by the
Báb in His own
handwriting (1)
Figure 34: Tablet by the
Báb in His own
handwriting (2)
Figure 35: Tablet by the
Báb in His own
handwriting (3)

16.  He Whom God shall make manifest, Section II
















































Figure 36: Trading accounts in the handwriting of the Báb, March

Dispensation of the Ba b















































Figure 37: Tablet by the Báb in His own handwriting (4)
Figure 38: A printed
version of the Persian
Bayán (British Museum)

16.  He Whom God shall make manifest, Section II
















































Figure 39: Mírzá Taqí Khán, The Amír
Kabír
Figure 40: Muḥammad Sháh

Dispensation of the Ba b















































Figure 41: Ḥájí Mírzá Áqásí
Figure 42: Dr William
Cormick (1822–1877)
who once treated the
Báb

16.  He Whom God shall make manifest, Section II
















































Figure 43: Dress worn
under the jubbih, worn
by the Báb
Figure 44: Cloth worn
by the Báb when
circumambulating
the Ka’bih
Figure 45: Green silk robe
worn by the Báb
Figure 46: Robe of the Báb (1)

Dispensation of the Ba b














































Figure 47: Robe of the Báb (2)
Figure 48: A coat of the Báb
Figure 49: Sandals of the Báb



He Whom God shall make Manifest:  Believing and accepting
There are many exhortations in Writings of the Ba b warning people about the
“veils” that could hinder their recognition of Baha ’u’lla h in the years after the
passing of the Ba b.  He also gave special instructions as to how we should
approach and treat He Whom God Shall Make Manifest when He appears.
This chapter discusses the following related themes:
•
Believing in Him Whom God shall make Manifest
•
Veils hindering recognition of Baha ’u’lla h
•
Encouragement of certain predispositions toward Him Whom God shall
make Manifest
•
Discouragement of certain attitudes and behaviours towards Him Whom
God shall make Manifest
•
Promoting the Cause of Him Whom God shall make Manifest
Believing in Him Whom God shall make Manifest
En masse conversions were a distinctive feature of the Ba bí  dispensation.  An
estimate of the Ba bí  population by the late 1840s was one hundred thousand
believers.1  Baha ’u’lla h blessed these converts:
Bless, O my God those of the followers of the Bayán as have been numbered
with the people of Bahá, who have entered within the Crimson Ark in Thy
Name, the Most Exalted, the Most High.  Thy might, verily, is equal to all
things.”2
Referring to the effect of the declaration of Baha ’u’lla h in 1863 in Baghda d,
historian Dr Peter Smith remarked that “… after a year or two the claims of an
already popular leader were accepted by the vast majority of the Babis.”3  In
Biblical terms, the Ba b had been like the Gate for the Shepherd—Baha ’u’lla h—to
lead the faithful through, just as Jesus had prophesised:  “The one who enters by
the Gate is the shepherd of the sheep.  The Gatekeeper [God] opens the Gate for
Him, and the sheep listen to His voice.  He calls His own sheep by name and leads
them out” (John 10:2).  The Orientalist Mirza Alexander Kazem-Beg wrote that
“Babism had many adepts in all classes of society, and many among them were of
important standing; great lords, members of the clergy, military men and
merchants had accepted this doctrine.”4

Abbas Amanat, “The Shaping of the Babi Community”, p. 145.
Baha ’u’lla h, Prayers and Meditations, pp. 44–45.
Peter Smith, The Babí and Baha’í Religions, p. 67.
Mirza Kazem-Beg in the Journal Asiatique, 1866, tome 8, p. 251.  Cited by Emily McBride
Pe rigord, Translation of French Foot-Notes, p. 21.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Station of the believer accepting Him Whom God shall make Manifest
The Ba b discloses the station of the believer in Baha ’u’lla h:
He who recogniseth Him is assuredly numbered amongst the letters of the
sublime paradise, and he who faileth to recognise Him is registered in very
truth amongst those of the nethermost region.1
If ye wish to distinguish truth from error, consider those who believe in Him
Whom God will make manifest and those who disbelieve Him at the time of
His appearance.  The former represents the essence of truth, as attested in
the Book of God, while the latter the essence of error, as attested in that same
Book.2
Since that Day is a great Day it would be sorely trying for thee to identify
thyself with the believers.  For the believers of that Day are the inmates of
Paradise, while the unbelievers are the inmates of the fire.  And know thou of
a certainty that by Paradise is meant recognition of and submission unto
Him Whom God shall make Manifest, and by the fire the company of such
souls as would fail to submit unto Him or to be resigned to His good-pleasure.
On that Day thou wouldst regard thyself as the inmate of Paradise and as a
true believer in Him, whereas in reality thou wouldst suffer thyself to be
wrapt in veils and thy habitation would be the nethermost fire, though thou
thyself wouldst not be cognizant thereof.3
According to the Ba b, accepting Him Whom God shall make Manifest is the
cause of spiritual growth, while failure to recognize Him leads to perversity:
Say, God shall of a truth cause your hearts to be given to perversity if ye fail
to recognize Him Whom God will make manifest; but if ye do recognize Him
God shall banish perversity from your hearts ….4
When a person accepts Him Whom God shall make Manifest, a special process
of growth begins to occur in his or her heart:
Indeed the hearts of them that truly believe in Him Whom God will make
manifest are vaster than the expanse of heaven and earth and whatever is
between them.  God hath left no hindrance in their hearts, were it but the size
of a mustard seed.  He will cheer their hearts, their spirits, their souls and
their bodies and their days of prosperity or adversity, through the exaltation
of the name of Him Who is the supreme Testimony of God and the promotion
of the Word of Him Who is the Dayspring of the glory of their Creator.  Verily,
these are souls who take delight in the remembrance of God, Who dilates
their hearts through the effulgence of the light of knowledge and wisdom.
They seek naught but God and are oft engaged in giving praise unto Him.

The Ba b, Tablet to Mullá Báqir, p. 9, provisional translation, Nader Saiedi.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 142.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 82–83.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 148.

16.  He Whom God shall make manifest, Section II

They desire naught except whatever He desireth and stand ready to do His
bidding.  Their hearts are mirrors reflecting whatsoever He Whom God shall
make manifest willeth.1
Such is the spiritual ascendancy of the new believers that they “prevail over
all who dwell in heaven and earth and in whatever lieth between them.”2  The Ba b
continues:
Say, God hath, according to that which is revealed in the Book, taken upon
Himself the task of ensuring the ascendancy of any one of the followers of the
Truth, over and above one hundred other souls, and the supremacy of one
hundred believers over one thousand nonbelievers and the domination of one
thousand of the faithful over all the peoples and kindreds of the earth;
inasmuch as God calleth into being whatsoever He willeth by virtue of His
behest.3
Recognizing Him Whom God shall make Manifest
In His Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, Baha ’u’lla h quotes the words of the Ba b,
giving advice on how humanity will recognize Him Whom God shall make
Manifest:  “the Primal Point [the Ba b] saith:  ‘Behold ye Him [Baha ’u’lla h] with His
own eyes.  Were ye to behold Him with the eyes of another, ye would never recognize
and know Him.’"4  Baha ’u’lla h cites the Ba b further:
“Look not upon Him [Bahá’u’lláh] with any eye except His own.  For
whosoever looketh upon Him with His eye, will recognize Him; otherwise he
will be veiled from Him.  Shouldst thou seek God and His Presence, seek thou
Him and gaze upon Him”.5
In the Tablet to Mulla  Ba qir, the Ba b avers:
Bear thou witness that there is no cherished end besides God, that no one can
gaze upon the Eternal Essence, and that what can be seen and is worthy such
that God attributeth it unto Himself, is naught but Him, the exalted
Countenance of Unity and the Face of Eternity.6
Explaining that the new Manifestation of God should be recognized by His
own attributes, the Ba b wrote:  “who then can know Him through any one except
Himself?”7  Likewise, He stated:
In like manner, should I find that all on earth bow their knees before Him,
this in no wise would increase the awe of His majesty in my heart.  Then,
should I behold all the inhabitants of the world, the number of all things,

The Ba b, Selections, p. 145.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 153.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 153.
The Ba b in Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 151.
The Ba b in Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 153.
The Ba b “Tablet to Mulla  Ba qir”, p. 7, provisional translation, Nader Saiedi.
The Ba b in Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 153.

Dispensation of the Ba b
kneel before Him when He proclaimeth, “Verily, I am the Lord God, none
other God is there but Me, and all else besides Me are My creation.  Say!  O ye
My creatures!  Bow down before Me,” I would recognize this on account of
His intrinsic supreme worth, in such wise that the creation of all things would
not alter my glorification and exaltation of Him.  For recognizing Him by
Him, and by the mere testimony of His own Self, is paradise, whose like hath
not been created in Thy Knowledge.  Were I to be altered by anything, I would
neither praise Thy unity by virtue of Thine intrinsic worth, nor acknowledge
Him by virtue of His intrinsic worth.1
Writing of the effect of hearing the words of Him Whom God shall make
Manifest the Ba b states, “Know thou that every ear which hearkeneth unto His
Words with true faith shall be immune from the fire.”2  Believers are also advised
that “whenever thou makest mention of Him Whom God will make manifest, only
then art thou making mention of God.”3
Bábís converting to the Faith of Him Whom God shall make Manifest
The Writings of the Ba b state that Ba bí s would be tested and not all would
accept the Faith of Baha ’u’lla h.  Regarding the allegiance of the Ba bí s, the Ba b
indicates that He Whom God shall make manifest can “dismiss the entire company
of the followers of the Bayán in the Day of the Latter Resurrection by a mere sign of
[His] finger”4 if He so wishes.  Since He can “pronounce a pious and truthful
follower of the Bayán as false, it is incumbent upon you to submit to His decree, as
this hath been affirmed by God in the Bayán.”5
Accepting the Faith of Baha ’u’lla h will be the test of being a true Ba bí :  “No one
believeth in the Bayán, the true meaning of faith, save those who will believe in
Him.”6  The Ba b warns the Ba bí s:
On that Day ye will continue to rove distraught, even as camels, seeking a
drop of the water of life.  God will cause oceans of living water to stream forth
from the presence of Him Whom God will make manifest, while ye will refuse
to quench your thirst therefrom, notwithstanding that ye regard yourselves
as the God-fearing witnesses of your Faith …Take good heed to yourselves,
inasmuch as the Cause of God will come upon you at a time when you will all
be entreating and tearfully imploring God for the advent of the Day of His
Manifestation; yet when He cometh ye will tarry and will fail to be of those
who are well-assured in His Faith.7

The Ba b “Tablet to Mulla  Ba qir”, p. 3, provisional translation, Nader Saiedi.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 98–99.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 80.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 7.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 141–142.
The Ba b “Tablet to Mulla  Ba qir”, p. 9, provisional translation, Nader Saiedi.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 141.

16.  He Whom God shall make manifest, Section II

It is also clear that Baha ’u’lla h would be bitterly disappointed by many of the
Ba bí s:
On that Day, the Daystar of Truth [Bahá’u’lláh] will address the people of the
Bayán and will recite this Súrih of the Qur’án [Súra 109]:  “Say:  O ye
unbelievers!  I worship not that which ye worship, and ye do not worship that
which I worship.  I shall never worship that which ye worship, neither will ye
worship that which I worship.  To you be your religion, to Me My religion.”1
This disappointment is shared by the Ba b Himself:
By the righteousness of Him Whose power causeth the seed to germinate and
Who breatheth the spirit of life into all things, were I to be assured that in
the day of His Manifestation thou wilt deny Him, I would unhesitatingly
disown thee and repudiate thy faith2 inasmuch as thou wert not created but
to recognise Him.3  If, on the other hand, I be told that a Christian, who
beareth no allegiance to My Faith, will believe in Him, the same will I regard
as the apple of Mine eye,4 and accept as My believer, without making the
slightest allusion against him.  For should the Christian, in the Day of His
manifestation, believe in Him, all his worlds would be turned into the light;
but should the believer, in the day of His Revelation, be veiled from Him, all
his worlds would be turned into fire.5
An eventual decline in the Ba bí  community after the passing of the Ba b would
predispose some Ba bí s to absurdly assert that He Whom God shall make manifest
is not a believer.  In the words of the Ba b, as cited by Baha ’u’lla h, “They will even
refuse unto that Tree, which is neither of the East nor of the West, the name believer,
for were they so to name Him, they would fail to sadden Him.”6  One is tempted to
say, such is human miserliness.
A warning for all mankind
Not only the Ba bí s would be tested—the whole of humanity would be tested
irrespective of rank or riches:  “In the day of the revelation of Him Whom God will
make manifest all that dwell on earth will be equal in His estimation”7 and “the
most distinguished among the learned and the lowliest of men shall both be judged

Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 150.
The Ba b “Tablet to Mulla  Ba qir” cited in Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh,
pp. 62–63.
The Ba b, “Tablet to Mulla  Ba qir”, p. 9, provisional translation, Nader Saiedi.
The Ba b, “Tablet to Mulla  Ba qir” cited in Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh,
pp. 62–63.
The Ba b “Tablet to Mulla  Ba qir”, p. 9, provisional translation, Nader Saiedi.
The Ba b in Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, pp. 156–157.
The Ba b, “Tablet to Mulla  Ba qir”, p. 9, provisional translation, Nader Saiedi.

Dispensation of the Ba b
alike”.1  “Those who disbelieve in the Most Great Remembrance of God,” He further
warns, “neither their wealth nor their children will avail them ….2
Referring to the power of Baha ’u’lla h the Ba b averred that it was lawful for
Him to accept a new believer, or “to reject him who is greatest on earth, inasmuch
as such a one is but a creature in His grasp ….”3
Prominent people would reject the teachings of Baha ’u’lla h while, at the same
time, simple souls would accept His claim as Him Whom God shall make Manifest
as “He will cause the abased to be exalted, and the exalted to be abased.”4
How many the fires which God converteth into light through Him Whom God
will make manifest; and how numerous the lights which are turned into fire
through Him!  I behold His appearance even as the sun in the midmost
heaven, and the disappearance of all even as that of the stars of the night by
day.5
The Ba b also expresses His hope that Christians would accept the Faith of
Baha ’u’lla h and prays:  “Raise up, then, amongst them, O My God, one who shall
bring them into Thy Faith inasmuch as they follow Thy path and seek Thy way.”6
Veils hindering recognition of Bahá’u’lláh
In the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, Baha ’u’lla h reminds the Ba bí s, nearly forty-
five years after the martyrdom of the Ba b, about a chapter of the Baya n7 dealing
specifically with the coming of Him Whom God shall make Manifest, and reminds
them of the exhortation contained therein:
Once every nineteen days this Chapter should be read, that haply they may
not be veiled, in the time of the revelation of Him Whom God will make
manifest, by considerations foreign to the verses, which have been, and are
still, the weightiest of all proofs and testimonies.8
“Veils” are impediments that deprive people from recognizing divine truth.  In
this regard, the Ba b states:
Hence God desireth that all men should be guided aright through the potency
of the Words of Him Whom God will make manifest.  However, such as are
conceited will not suffer themselves to be guided.  They will be debarred from
the Truth, some by reason of their learning, others on account of their glory

The Ba b, Selections, p. 91.
The Ba b in Todd Lawson, “The terms ‘Remembrance’ and ‘Gate’, p. 19.
The Ba b in Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 152.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 92.
The Ba b in Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 173.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Modernity in the Writings of the Báb, p. 7.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 6:8.
The Ba b in Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, pp. 157–158.

16.  He Whom God shall make manifest, Section II

and power, and still others due to reasons of their own, none of which shall
be of any avail at the hour of death.1
Among the “veils” that obscure human spiritual perception, the Ba b mentions
the following:
Selfish desires
Know thou, that thou wilt succeed in doing so if thou believest with
undoubting faith.  However, since thou canst not attain the state of
undoubting faith, due to the intervening veils of thy selfish desires, therefore
thou wilt tarry in the fire, though realizing it not.2
Self-righteousness
How vast the number of people who will, on the Day of Resurrection, regard
themselves to be in the right, while they shall be accounted as false through
the dispensation of Providence, inasmuch as they will shut themselves out as
by a veil from Him Whom God will make manifest and refuse to bow down in
adoration before Him Who, as divinely ordained in the Book, is the Object of
their creation.3
Preoccupied in church ritual
If ye entertain any doubts in this matter consider the people unto whom the
Gospel was given.  Having no access to the apostles of Jesus, they sought the
pleasure of the Lord in their churches, hoping to learn that which would be
acceptable unto God, but they found therein no path unto Him.4
The Bayán itself
And beware, beware that the words sent down in the Bayán shut thee not out
as by a veil from Him.5
Suffer not the Bayán and all that hath been revealed therein to withhold you
from that Essence of Being and Lord of the visible and invisible.6
Disunity amongst the believers
Regard ye not others save as ye regard your own selves, that no feeling of
aversion may prevail amongst you so as to shut you out from Him Whom God
will make manifest on the Day of Resurrection.  It behooveth you all to be one
indivisible people; thus should ye return unto Him Whom God will make
manifest.7

The Ba b, Selections, p. 96.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 110.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 143.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 137.
Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 153.
Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 171.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 129.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Disdain
Perchance He will appear invested with the power of Truth while ye are fast
asleep on your couches, or His messengers will bring glorious and
resplendent Tablets from Him while ye turn away disdainfully from Him,
pronounce sentence against Him—such sentence as ye would never pass on
yourselves—and say, “This is not from God, the All-Subduing, the Self-
Existent.”1
Material possessions
O peoples of the East and the West!  Be ye fearful of God concerning the Cause
of the true Joseph and barter Him not for a paltry price established by
yourselves, or for a trifle of your earthly possessions, that ye may, in very
truth, be praised by Him as those who are reckoned among the pious who
stand nigh unto this Gate.2
Self-delusion
On that Day thou wouldst regard thyself as the inmate of Paradise and as a
true believer in Him, whereas in reality thou wouldst suffer thyself to be
wrapt in veils and thy habitation would be the nethermost fire, though thou
thyself wouldst not be cognizant thereof.3
Position and rank
Among those to whom it will never occur that they might merit the
displeasure of God, and whose pious deeds will be exemplary unto everyone,
there will be many who will become the personification of the nethermost
fire itself, when they fail to embrace His Cause; while among the lowly
servants whom no one would imagine to be of any merit, how great the
number who will be honored with true faith and on whom the Fountainhead
of generosity will bestow the robe of authority.4
The Ba b stresses the fact that all believers, without exception, are merely
mirrors who have no light of their own.  They “are not illumined by themselves ….
All the mirrors abide by His bidding, return unto Him, utter His glory, and seek
shelter beneath His shadow.”5
While in the above quote the Ba b was referring to all believers as “mirrors”,
He honoured certain worthy disciples with the title of “Mirrors”.  Other
distinguished believers were referred to as “Guides” and “Witnesses”.
Witnesses, or more correctly “Witnesses of the Bayán”, were those persons who
testified to the validity and authenticity of the Words of the blessed Ba b until the

The Ba b, Selections, p. 166.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 48.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 82–83.
The Ba b, Selections, 83–84.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, ch. 6, endnote 17, p. 393.

16.  He Whom God shall make manifest, Section II

appearance of Baha ’u’lla h.  Collectively, in addition to the Letters of the Living,
the Mirrors, Guides and Witnesses constituted a hierarchy in the Ba bí
Revelation.1
To the “Mirrors” in particular, the Ba b issued some warnings that are quoted
by Baha ’u’lla h in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf written over forty years later:
O Sun-like Mirrors!  Look ye upon the Sun of Truth.  Ye, verily, depend upon
it, were ye to perceive it.  Ye are all as fishes, moving in the waters of the sea,
veiling yourselves therefrom, and yet asking what it is on which ye depend.2
I complain unto thee, O Mirror of My generosity, against all the other
Mirrors.  All look upon Me through their own colors.3
Beware, O Concourse of Mirrors, lest on that Day titles make you
vainglorious.  Know ye of a certainty that ye, together with all those who
stand above you or below you, have been created for that Day.4
As predicted by the Ba b, a few Ba bí s rejected Baha ’u’lla h as Him Whom God
shall make Manifest, despite the warning in the Baya n:  “Beware, beware lest the
Váḥid of the Bayán5 or that which hath been sent down in that Book shut thee out
as by a veil from Him, inasmuch as it is but a creature in His sight.”6  The Ba b also
gave the following warning:
And shouldst Thou behold, O my God, any branch, leaf, or fruit upon Me that
hath failed to bow down before Him, on the day of His Revelation, cut it off,
O My God, from that Tree, for it is not of Me, nor shall it return unto Me.7
‘Abdu’l-Baha  explained the downfall of those believers:
And yet, behold to what vain imaginings the people of the Bayán are clinging.
They cry out:  “Where is the primary school of Him Whom God shall make
Manifest?8  Where are the kings of the Bayán?  Where are its places of
worship and its Witnesses?” …

See Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 89–90.
The Ba b in Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 160.
The Ba b in Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 160.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 164.
The Ba b and the eighteen Letters of the Living.
‘Abdu’l-Baha . Light of the World, p. 150.
Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 162.
The Universal House of Justice explains that “Baha ’u’lla h confronts one of the reasons
some of the Ba bí s rejected His claim to be the Promised One of the Baya n.  Their
rejection was based on a Tablet addressed by the Ba b to “Him Who will be made
manifest” on the reverse side of which the Ba b had written:  “May the glances of Him
Whom God shall make manifest illumine this letter at the primary school.” (The Kitáb-i-
Aqdas, p. 246)

Dispensation of the Ba b
The statement “or that which hath been revealed in the Bayán” is indeed
meant to caution the people of the Bayán not to say, “Where are the kings of
the Bayán,1 and where is the school of Him Whom God shall make Manifest?”
Great God!  These people condition that Most Great Revelation upon His
being admitted, like a child, into a primary school and regard this as the
proof of the validity of His Cause.2
Those Ba bí s, who rejected Baha ’u’lla h as Him Whom God shall make Manifest,
were mostly followers of Mí rza  Yah ya  (1831–1912), a half-brother of Baha ’u’lla h.
Mí rza  Yah ya , who claimed to be the successor of the Ba b and the leader of the
Ba bí  community, had shown strong opposition to the mandate of Baha ’u’lla h.
Those who followed Mí rza  Yah ya  became known as “Azalis”, based on the title
“S ubh -i-Azal”, which Mí rza  Yah ya  had assumed.  It is clear that Mí rza  Yah ya  was
not appointed as the successor of the Ba b but only as a figure-head of the Ba bí s
until the appearance of Him Whom God shall make Manifest.3
The Blessed Beauty addressed the following words to the Ba bí s:
O people of the Bayán!  Abandon your idle fancies and vain imaginings, then
with the eye of fairness look at the Dayspring of His Revelation [Bahá’u’lláh]
and consider the things He hath manifested, the words He hath divinely
revealed and the sufferings that have befallen Him at the hands of His
enemies.  He is the One Who hath willingly accepted every manner of
tribulation for the proclamation of His Cause and the exaltation of His Word.
At one time He suffered imprisonment in the land of Ṭá’ (Ṭihrán), at another
in the land of Mím (Mázindarán), then once again in the former land, for the
sake of the Cause of God, the Maker of the heavens.  In His love for the Cause
of God, the Almighty, the All-Bountiful, He was subjected there to chains and
fetters.4
In the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, Baha ’u’lla h likens these Ba bí s to the
followers of John the Baptist who protested against Jesus:  “The dispensation of
John hath not yet ended; wherefore hast thou come?”5
Encouragement of certain predispositions toward Him Whom God shall
make Manifest
A distinctive feature of the Ba bí  Revelation is that their Promised One is
portrayed as a human being as distinct from prophecies of past religions in which
the Messianic figure was referred to by the use of symbolic language.  The

The Ba b wrote about the establishment of a theocracy ruled by a Ba bí  king, but under
the Ba b’s sovereignty. (Persian Baya n 4:5; Arabic Baya n 9:3)
‘Abdu’l-Baha , Light of the World, p. 152.
The title “S ubh -i-Azal” appears in an Islamic tradition, which was quoted by the Ba b in
“Dala’il-i-Sab'ih”.  Mí rza  Yah ya  took this term as a reference to himself.  (See
https://bahai-library.com/uhj_vasaya_mirza_yahya)
Baha ’u’lla h, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 104.
Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 157.

16.  He Whom God shall make manifest, Section II

Writings of the Ba b make it clear that He Whom God shall make manifest is a
person who lives, interacts and even dies as a normal human being.
The Writings of the Ba b provide guidance as to how believers should
approach Baha ’u’lla h.  These include:  to turn the mirror of the heart towards
Him, to love Him, perform acts and deeds for His sake, to observe His precepts
and to ask for His forgiveness.  The Ba b also encourages the Ba bí s to educate
people in the teachings of the Baya n, and assist Him Whom God shall make
Manifest in propagating His Cause.  Among his exhortation are:
•
To make of one’s heart a mirror set towards Him Whom God shall make
Manifest:
Thus if haply thou dost live in the Day of Resurrection, the mirror of thy heart
will be set towards Him Who is the Daystar of Truth; and no sooner will His
light shine forth than the splendor thereof shall forthwith be reflected in thy
heart.  For He is the Source of all goodness, and unto Him revert all things.1
•
To listen to Him Whom God shall make Manifest:
At whatever time ye hear of Him, hasten ye towards Him, and cleave ye to
whatsoever He may reveal unto you.  Naught else besides Him can ever profit
you, no, not though ye produce from first to last the testimonies of all those
who were before you.2
•
To show love towards Him Whom God shall make Manifest:
All, according to their capacity, are enjoined to love Him and recognize Him
and traverse the path of the Seas of Names and Attributes ….3
•
To observe the precepts of Him Whom God shall make Manifest:
The acts of Him Whom God will make manifest are like unto the sun, while
the works of men, provided they conform to the good-pleasure of God,
resemble the stars or the moon ….  Thus, should the followers of the Bayán
observe the precepts of Him Whom God will make manifest at the time of His
appearance, and regard themselves and their own works as stars exposed to
the light of the sun, then they will have gathered the fruits of their existence
….4
•
To perform acts and deeds for the sake of Him Whom God shall make
Manifest:
In like manner, the people who are now acting in accordance with the Bayán,
and recite this verse, should they, in the day of the Revelation of Him Whom

The Ba b, Selections, p. 94.
Baha ’u’lla h, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 147.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 185.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 97.

Dispensation of the Ba b
God will make manifest, perform action for Him, they act for the sake of God,
otherwise their action will come to naught, as if they had not done anything.1
•
To ask Him Whom God shall make Manifest for forgiveness:
If divine revelation ceaseth, thou shouldst write a petition to Him Whom God
will make manifest, imploring that it be delivered into His presence.  Therein
thou must beg pardon of thy Lord, turn unto Him in repentance and be of
them that are wholly devoted to Him.  Perchance God will transform thy fire
into light at the next Resurrection.2
•
To assist Him Whom God shall make Manifest:
I swear by the holy Essence of God, were all in the Bayán to unite in helping
Him Whom God will make manifest in the days of His Revelation, not a single
soul, nay, not a created thing would remain on earth that would not gain
admittance into Paradise.  Take good heed of yourselves, for the sum total of
the religion of God is but to help Him, rather than to observe, in the time of
His appearance, such deeds as are prescribed in the Bayán.3
•
To attain the presence of Him Whom God shall make Manifest:
Take ye heed, therefore, lest ye deprive yourselves of attaining the presence
of Him Who is the Manifestation of God, notwithstanding that ye have been
day and night praying to behold His countenance ….4
•
To show respect in His presence:
When the Daystar of Bahá will shine resplendent above the horizon of
eternity it is incumbent upon you to present yourselves before His Throne.
Beware lest ye be seated in His presence or ask questions without His leave.
Fear ye God, O concourse of the Mirrors.
Beg ye of Him the wondrous tokens of His favor that He may graciously
reveal for you whatever He willeth and desireth, inasmuch as on that Day all
the revelations of divine bounty shall circle around the Seat of His glory and
emanate from His presence, could ye but understand it.
It behooveth you to remain silent before His Throne, for indeed of all the
things which have been created between heaven and earth nothing on that
Day will be deemed more fitting than the observance of silence.5
Likewise, particular courtesies should be shown to Him:
•
To listen to His words:

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 312.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 33–34.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 85.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 136.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 164–165.

16.  He Whom God shall make manifest, Section II

Know thou that every ear which hearkeneth unto His Words with true faith
shall be immune from the fire.  Thus the believer, through his recognition of
Him will appreciate the transcendent character of His heavenly Words, will
wholeheartedly choose Him over others, and will refuse to incline his
affections towards those who disbelieve in Him.1
•
To leave a vacant chair for Him and the Letters of the Living:
… and in every assembly of glory which is formed, it is well that they should
leave vacant places for the number of the Wáḥid [19], that if at that hour He
whom God shall manifest were to appear with the [eighteen] Letters of the
Living none should be in propinquity.2
Among other provisions are:
The Ba b exhorts believers to stand when they hear a mention of Him Whom
God shall make Manifest and the name of the Qa ’im (the Ba b).  In both the Persian
and Arabic Baya n, the Ba b asks the believers to compose their will and
testaments that are to be addressed to Him Whom We shall make manifest, and
He indicates that by doing so they are writing to God.3  Oaths are to be sworn by
God or by Him Whom God shall make Manifest.4
In addition, there are two ordinances in the Baya n: one, forbidding the posing
of questions to Him Whom God shall make Manifest except in writing; and the
second, being an exhortation to offer Him priceless gifts.  Both these points will
be discussed in the last section of chapter 19.
Discouragement of certain attitudes and behaviours
towards Him Whom God shall make Manifest
Just as the Ba b taught people how to approach Baha ’u’lla h, He advised against
certain actions in relation to Him Whom God shall make Manifest.
•
To eschew vanities:
Turn not your religion into a means of material gain, spending your life on
vanities, and inheriting thereby on the Day of Resurrection that which would
displease Him Whom God will make manifest, while ye deem that what ye do
is right.5

The Ba b, Selections, pp. 98–99.
Moojan Momen, Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne, p. 376.  Adib Taherzadeh
wrote:  “In the same Book, the Ba b makes a statement which reveals His sense of
humour.  He says that ‘He Whom God shall make manifest’ will also leave a seat of
honour vacant in His own home, because the believers will not recognize Him!  He will
be inwardly amused by those who venerate His name while remaining veiled from Him
at the time of His Revelation”. (Taherzadeh, The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 51)
The Ba b, Persian Baya n, 5:13 & Arabic Baya n.5:13.  See Baha ’u’lla h, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para.
109, p. 59.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 11:1.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 129–130.

Dispensation of the Ba b
•
To refrain from passing judgement:
O ye who are invested with the Bayán!  Should ye be apprised of a person
laying claim to a Cause and revealing verses which to outward seeming are
unlikely to have been revealed by anyone else save God, the Help in Peril, the
Self-Subsisting, do not pass sentence against him, lest ye may inadvertently
pass sentence against Him Whom God will make manifest.1
•
To avoid argumentation:
Take heed to carefully consider the words of every soul, then hold fast to the
proofs which attest the truth.  If ye fail to discover truth in a person’s words,
make them not the object of contention, inasmuch as ye have been forbidden
in the Bayán to enter into idle disputation and controversy, that perchance
on the Day of Resurrection ye may not engage in argumentation, and dispute
with Him Whom God will make manifest.2
•
To refrain from being a cause of grief:
If thou attainest unto His Revelation, and obeyest Him, thou wilt have
revealed the fruit of the Bayán; if not, thou art unworthy of mention before
God.  Take pity upon thyself.  If thou aidest not Him Who is the Manifestation
of the Lordship of God, be not, then, a cause of sadness unto Him.3
I beg of Thee, by Thy bounty, O my God, and by the outpourings of Thy mercy
and bestowals, O my Lord, and by the evidences of Thy heavenly favors and
grace, O my Best-Beloved, to watch over Him Whom God will make manifest
that no trace of despondency may ever touch Him.4
Take good heed of yourselves, O people of the Bayán, lest ye perform such
deeds as to weep sore for His sake night and day, to stand up at the mention
of His Name, yet on this Day of fruition—a Day whereon ye should not only
arise at His Name, but seek a path unto Him Who personifies that Name—ye
shut yourselves out from Him as by a veil.5
Promoting the cause of Him Whom God shall make Manifest
Specific advice is given in the teachings of the Ba b on how to promote the Faith
of Baha ’u’lla h both on an individual level and as a community.
Individually, the Ba bí s were encouraged to arise and teach the Cause of God:
Therefore, manifest thou this attribute to the utmost of thine ability in the
days of Him Whom God will make manifest.  For indeed if thou dost open the

The Ba b, Selections, p. 144.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 134.
The Ba b in Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 172.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 172.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 84–85.

16.  He Whom God shall make manifest, Section II

heart of a person for His sake, better will it be for thee than every virtuous
deed; since deeds are secondary to faith in Him and certitude in His Reality.1
Such a service should be carried out in a spirit of self-abnegation:
The station of light resembleth that of the lamp, which consumeth its own
self in order to illumine others, for there remaineth no trace of identity in the
light.  Thus shouldst thou be alive, thou wouldst witness the lights of this
Revelation who will relinquish, by their own will, their own being in order to
render victorious the unity of God, and His ordinances and prohibitions.2
The Ba b also wrote that the act of bringing another soul into the Faith of
Baha ’u’lla h brings immense spiritual benefits:
Wert thou to open the heart of a single soul by helping him to embrace the
Cause of Him Whom God will make manifest, thine inmost being would be
filled with the inspirations of that august Name.  It devolveth upon you,
therefore, to perform this task in the Days of Resurrection, inasmuch as most
people are helpless, and wert thou to open their hearts and dispel their
doubts, they would gain admittance into the Faith of God.3
Collectively, the Ba bí s were summoned to covenant with each other regarding
Him Whom God shall make manifest:
Covenant with all those who acknowledge their faith, every single one that is
known to thee, concerning His Mission, through their own written testimony.
The whole of the Bayán is such a testimony of Mine, written by Me.  Verily,
whoso writeth such an acknowledgment, hath testified to his belief in Him
ere His Manifestation.  Therefore, seek thou testimony from all who can be
sought, that they may register their testimony of faith in writing before the
Day of His manifestation.4
Four particular exhortations pertaining to advancing the Cause of Him Whom
God shall make Manifest.  One is the ordinance to reply to letters and respond to
others to facilitate information about the arrival of Baha ’u’lla h “for should all be
assured that He is that same He Whom God shall make manifest whom the Point of
the Bayán hath foretold, not one would turn aside.”5  The Ba b explains further:
It is enjoined in this Revelation that should anyone receive a letter from
someone, it is his duty to reply, by his own hand or that of another on his
behalf; indeed, any delay is abhorred.  In like manner, should one ask a
question, it is incumbent upon the person asked, to give a guiding answer,
that haply in the Day of the Revelation of God no one may be shut out as by
a veil from Him.  Hence, the question revealed by God, ‘Am I not your Lord?’

The Ba b, Selections, p. 133.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 78.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 133.
The Ba b, “Tablet to Mulla  Ba qir”, p. 12, provisional translation, Nader Saiedi.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 110–112.

Dispensation of the Ba b
requireth all to answer, ‘Yea.’ Thus, the duty to reply is enjoined for this
purpose, although its influence will last until the very last atom of existence.1
Hence, the Ba b instructs His followers to develop a postal service:
It is for this reason that such an ordinance is decreed, that haply in the Day
of the Revelation of that Most Mighty Day-Star, the means to facilitate the
attainment of the glory of guidance for His servants will be prepared.
However, until such a system is made universal, its benefit will not reach
those servants of the kingdom unless there come a time when it will be
accessible to all the people.  Although today the kings have their own special
couriers, this is fruitless, for the poor are deprived of such a service.2
Thirdly, a provision is made not to grieve anyone who in turn might grieve
Him Whom God shall make Manifest:
Take ye good heed in your night lest ye be a cause of sadness to any soul,
whether ye be able to discover proofs in him or not, that haply on the Day of
Resurrection ye may not grieve Him within Whose grasp lieth every proof.
And when ye do not discern God’s testimony in a person, he will verily fail in
manifesting the power of Truth; and God is sufficient to deal with him.
Indeed on no account should ye sadden any person; surely God will put him
to the proof and bring him to account.  It behooveth you to cling to the
testimony of your own Faith and to observe the ordinances laid down in the
Bayán.3
Mí rza  Muh ammad Gulpa yga ní  (1844–1914), to whom Baha ’u’lla h had given the
title Abu’l-Fad l (“Father of Virtue”), was a very knowledgeable and devoted
believer, and an Apostle of Baha ’u’lla h.  The following incident occurred during
the first pilgrimage of Mí rza  ‘Alí  Muh ammad (known as Varqa ).  Mí rza  Abu’l-Fad l
writes regarding the instructions of the Ba b to write books to advance the Cause
of Him Whom God shall make Manifest:
In the early years of my conversion, I refused to write books, supporting
that in the days in which the Supreme Pen was moving, its sound would be
heard in all regions.  Therefore, I reasoned, it would be a great
presumption for a man to attempt writing and composition.  Finally in
1887, when in Ádharbayján, I was favored with the privilege of meeting
Varqá the Martyr, and he encouraged me to write and compose.  He said:
“During the days when I was at the brilliant city of ‘Akká, and attained the
honor of meeting the Blessed Perfection, the Blessed Tongue repeated the
Command of the ‘First Point,’ which was that the believers should each one
write books demonstrating the truth of ‘He whom God shall manifest.’  I
inquired if He deemed it advisable to employ Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl in this
service.  Then He said, “As the “First Point” has commanded it, such

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 321.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 320.
The Ba b, Selections, pp. 134–135.

16.  He Whom God shall make manifest, Section II

persons should employ themselves in writing and propounding
arguments.”1
All religions of the past had a Lesser Covenant—a line of succession after the
Messenger of God departs from this terrestrial life.  Abraham designated Isaac;
while Moses appointed Joshua; Jesus referred to Peter; and Muh ammad
conferred that mantle upon ‘Alí .  However, the Ba b did not designate a successor.
He indicated clearly that there were no vicegerents in His Dispensation.
According to Baha ’u’lla h:

In My previous Dispensation [the Báb], the matter of successorship was
totally obliterated from the Book of God. As all are aware, all that was
revealed from the Pen of the All-Merciful was confined to the Letters and the
Mirrors of the Bayán. Also, the number of Mirrors was not fixed.2
Shoghi Effendi explains how this vacuum was due to the imminence of Him
Whom God shall make Manifest:
A successor or vicegerent the Báb never named, an interpreter of His
teachings He refrained from appointing.  So transparently clear were His
references to the Promised One, so brief was to be the duration of His own
Dispensation, that neither the one nor the other was deemed necessary.
All He did was, according to the testimony of ‘Abdu’l-Baha  in A Traveller’s
Narrative, to nominate, on the advice of Baha ’u’lla h and of another disciple,
Mí rza  Yaḥya , who would act solely as a figure-head pending the
manifestation of the Promised One, thus enabling Baha ’u’lla h to promote,
in relative security, the Cause so dear to His heart.3

It is noteworthy that the Ba b designated Mulla  Muh ammad ʻAlí -i-Ba rfuru shí
(c. 1820–1849), entitled Quddús (meaning “Holy”), as His foremost disciple.
Quddu s was chosen from among all the eighteen Letters of the Living to
accompany the Ba b on pilgrimage to Mecca in October 1844.  In the Persian Baya n
the Ba b praised Quddu s as the one on whose “detachment and the sincerity of
whose devotion to God’s will God prideth Himself amidst the Concourse on high.”4
Similarly, Baha ’u’lla h identifies Quddu s with the parable as one of the three
“Messengers [falsely] charged with imposture” in Qur’a n 36:13.5  Despite the

Mí rza  Abu’l-Fad l, Bahá’í Proofs, p. 14.
2  Baha ’u’lla h,
The
Bahá’í
Reference
Library.

Available
from:
https://www.bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/bahaullah/additional-tablets-
extracts-from-tablets-revealed-bahaullah/additional-tablets-extracts-from-tablets-
revealed-bahaullah.pdf?369f2267
Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By, p. 28.
The Ba b in Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By, p. 49.
Baha ’u’lla h in Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By, p. 49.

Dispensation of the Ba b
elevated position of Quddu s, “he should by no means be considered [as] having
had the station of a Prophet” nor as a Manifestation of God.1
The focus of the Ba b’ mission was on the appearance of the next Messenger of
God in the form of Him Whom God shall make Manifest, namely, Baha ’u’lla h.  The
abundance of references that the Ba b made to this heralded Figure bears witness
to the care He took—particularly on the issue of “spiritual veils”—to prepare the
world for that great spiritual phenomenon.  No other Messenger of God has
written as much as the Ba b did concerning the signs and roles of the next
Manifestation.
The Ba b explained that He did not leave a successor because of the imminence
of the new revelation:
Glorified art Thou, O My God!  Bear Thou witness that, through this Book, I
have covenanted with all created things concerning the Mission of Him
Whom Thou shalt make manifest, ere the covenant concerning Mine own
Mission had been established.  Sufficient witness art Thou and they that have
believed in Thy signs.2


Letter titled “Letters of Living, Dawn-Breakers, Quddu s, Terraces” written August 1975
on behalf of the Universal House of Justice. Available from https://bahai-
library.com/uhj_letters_quddus_dawnbreakers.
The Ba b in Baha ’u’lla h. Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 160.



Progressive Revelation—Divine Laws
In chapter 2, we covered the topic of progressive revelation from the point of
view of God revealing Himself to humanity through His Prophets in accordance
with man’s capacity to understand.  Such a concept is not totally foreign to the
followers of earlier religions though some Christians have preferred to use the
term “progressive comprehension” or “theological evolution”.  For instance,
regarding the relationship between Judaism and Christianity, Jesus said:  “For had
ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me: for he wrote of me.  But if ye
believe not his writings, how can ye believe my words?” (John 5:46)
Progressive revelation can also be inferred from the Holy Qur’a n with its
accounts of past Prophets Who are referred to as “Muslims”, i.e. “those who
submit to God”.  The Jews, Christians, Magians (Zoroastrians) and Sabians are
recognized as the “People of the Book”; i.e., as believers in the One God and
recipients of God’s Revelation through His Prophets.  The concept of progression
is implied in several surahs, especially when considered together.  Perhaps the
most significant verse is in Qur’a n 12:6, in which the story is told of how Jacob
addressed the following words to his beloved son, Joseph:
It is thus that thy Lord shall choose thee and will teach thee the
interpretation of dark sayings, and will perfect his favours on thee and on
the family of Jacob, as of old he perfected it on thy fathers Abraham and
Isaac; verily thy Lord is Knowing, Wise!
Take particular note of the use of the word “perfect”.  If this was the only time
it was used in the above passage, one might have taken it to mean that whatever
was revealed to Joseph was the ultimate of all Revelation.  Yet this perfection is
likened to an earlier perfection of God’s favours on Abraham and Isaac.
The Baha ’í  Faith propounds a new and all-inclusive concept of Progressive
Revelation.  Though hinted at in the Scriptures of previous religions, the concept
was not fully comprehended, and the lack of a clear definition allowed various
misinterpretations to arise with the followers of each faith believing that their
Prophet was unique and that there would be no further Revelation.  Only in the
Baha ’í  Writings is there a precise explanation of the station of the Messengers
(Manifestations) of God, and Their relationship to God and to each other.
Thus, the Baha ’í  Faith brings clarity to these issues, explaining how God, the
loving Creator, reveals His Law to man through this successive chain of
Manifestations, each One of Them renewing and redefining the Revelation of the
One Who came before, according to the growing understanding of humanity.
Each Messenger has a particular Mission, bringing specific social laws that serve
the needs of humanity for that Age.  The fundamental spiritual teachings, i.e.,
virtues such as loving-kindness, courage, generosity, justice, steadfastness,

Dispensation of the Ba b
truthfulness and trustworthiness remain; but they are raised to a higher level
related to the advances in human spiritualization.  ‘Abdu’l-Baha  explains:
All sin is prompted by the dictates of nature.  These dictates of nature, which
are among the hallmarks of corporeal existence, are not sins with respect to
the animal but are sins with regard to man.  The animal is the source of
imperfections such as anger, lust, envy, greed, cruelty, and pride.  All these
blameworthy qualities are found in the nature of the animal, and do not
constitute sins with regard to the animal, whereas they are sins with regard
to man.1
"The good deeds of the righteous are the sins of the near ones"2
As every new religious dispensation has dawned, it has re-established and
upgraded the teachings of the older faith from which it sprung.  In its heyday, the
potency of the Revelation of the Word of God for that age has propelled
civilization forward, both spiritually and materially.  It is at such a time that
advances and discoveries have been made in every field of human endeavour.  A
new paradigm is established for humanity, which becomes imbedded in the
culture and traditions of the people although they may not recognize its source.
Even the pagan philosophers of ancient times were influenced by the echoes of
some otherwise forgotten Revelation of the past.
The following themes are covered in this chapter.
•
Evolvement of religious laws from one dispensation to the next
•
Evolvement of religious laws within each dispensation
•
Messianic expectations about the Qa ’im
•
Implementation of the laws of the Ba b
•
Nature of religious laws in the Ba bí -Baha ’í  Faith
•
Response of Baha ’u’lla h to the laws of the Baya n
Evolvement of religious laws from one dispensation to the next
One of the clearest examples of progressive revelation is found in the Gospels.
According to the Gospel of Matthew, Jesus emphatically upheld the Law of God as
revealed to mankind by Moses:
Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets:  I am not
come to destroy, but to fulfil.  For verily I say unto you, till heaven and earth
pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be
fulfilled. Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least
commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the
kingdom of heaven:  but whosoever shall do and teach them, the same shall
be called great in the kingdom of heaven.  For I say unto you, that except

‘Abdu’l-Baha , Some Answered Questions, p. 133.
‘Abdu’l-Baha , Some Answered Questions, p. 142.

17.  The relationship between Baha ’í  and Ba bí  laws

your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and
Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven.1
The last statement in the above extract is of particular interest.  It seems that
Jesus was accusing the scribes and Pharisees of corruption, as He had done in
some of His other statements:  “Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites!
for ye are as graves which appear not, and the men that walk over them are not
aware of them.”  (Luke 11:44).  However, in the context of what follows, Jesus was
redefining the law and upgrading how it should be observed:  “Ye have heard that
it was said of them of old time, Thou shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall
be in danger of the judgment:  But I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with
his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment ….”2
Jesus did not change “one jot or one tittle” of the Sixth Commandment:  but
He raised man’s response to a higher level.  Likewise, Jesus refined the Seventh
Commandment:  “Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt
not commit adultery:  But I say unto you, That whosoever looketh on a woman to
lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart.”3
When Jesus healed the sick on the Sabbath, the Jews sought to kill Him for
breaking the very specific statement of the Fourth Commandment.  However, the
Pharisees had substituted the spirit of the law for an array of petty and, in effect,
ungodly rules.  They knew that the Sabbath was intended for man to rest from his
work in order to worship God, but they interpreted this in a very narrow way.
They did not take into account that the worship of God also includes doing the
work of God, such as the healing of the sick.  Jesus brought back to the Sabbath
the spirit of the law.  He said:  “The Sabbath is made for man not man for the
Sabbath.”4  Jesus also refined the Old Testament teachings on the nature of God
from a wrathful Avenger to a loving and forgiving Father:  “Be ye therefore
perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect.”  (Matthew 5:48)
The laws of Moses forbid the eating of various foods, including pork (Leviticus
11:7); whereas Jesus declared all foods clean (Mark 7:15).  The day of rest for Jews
is Saturday while most Christians observe it on Sunday, and all Muslims celebrate
Friday.  Capital punishment is prescribed for some offences in the Torah (Exodus
21:12), while Jesus demonstrated mercy for the “woman taken in adultery” by
stipulating the innocence of the would-be executioners as a condition for casting
the first stone (John 8:3–11).  According to some hadiths (al-Bukhari, vol. 6, bk. 60,
no. 79), capital punishment as set down in the Torah; was re-instated by
Muh ammad in Medina, although not indicated in the Qur’a n, in which killing the
enemy was only allowed in time of war (Qur’a n 5:33-34).  Capital punishment was
forbidden by the Ba b, then reinstated by Baha ’u’lla h for murder and arson under
certain conditions with the option of life imprisonment (The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 41

Matthew 5:17–20, KJB
Matthew 5:21–4, KJB
Matthew 5:27–8, KJB
Mark 2:27, KJB

Dispensation of the Ba b
para 62).  As discussed earlier, Moses allowed divorce, Jesus prohibited it,
Muh ammad made provision for it, whereas the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h made it
conditional on a year of waiting.  ‘Abdu’l-Baha  stated:
… in the time of Noah certain requirements made it necessary that all
seafood be allowable or lawful.  During the time of the Abrahamic
Prophethood it was considered allowable, because of a certain exigency, that
a man should marry his aunt, even as Sarah was the sister of Abraham’s
mother.  During the cycle of Adam it was lawful and expedient for a man to
marry his own sister, even as Abel, Cain and Seth, the sons of Adam, married
their sisters.  But in the law of the Pentateuch revealed by Moses these
marriages were forbidden and their custom and sanction abrogated.  Other
laws formerly valid were annulled during the time of Moses.  For example, it
was lawful in Abraham’s cycle to eat the flesh of the camel, but during the
time of Jacob this was prohibited.  Such changes and transformations in the
teaching of religion are applicable to the ordinary conditions of life, but they
are not important or essential.  Moses lived in the wilderness of Sinai where
crime necessitated direct punishment.  There were no penitentiaries or
penalties of imprisonment.  Therefore, according to the exigency of the time
and place it was a law of God that an eye should be given for an eye and a
tooth for a tooth.  It would not be practicable to enforce this law at the
present time—for instance, to blind a man who accidentally blinded you.  In
the Torah there are many commands concerning the punishment of a
murderer.  It would not be allowable or possible to carry out these
ordinances today.  Human conditions and exigencies are such that even the
question of capital punishment—the one penalty which most nations have
continued to enforce for murder—is now under discussion by wise men who
are debating its advisability.  In fact, laws for the ordinary conditions of life
are only valid temporarily.  The exigencies of the time of Moses justified
cutting off a man’s hand for theft, but such a penalty is not allowable now.
Time changes conditions, and laws change to suit conditions.  We must
remember that these changing laws are not the essentials; they are the
accidentals of religion.  The essential ordinances established by a
Manifestation of God are spiritual; they concern moralities, the ethical
development of man and faith in God.  They are ideal and necessarily
permanent—expressions of the one foundation and not amenable to change
or transformation.  Therefore, the fundamental basis of the revealed religion
of God is immutable, unchanging throughout the centuries, not subject to the
varying conditions of the human world.1
Obedience to the Law of God for one’s era is indisputable:  but there is also the
question of motivation.  As we saw in chapters 10 and 13, the Ba b set a higher
standard of motive for the worship of God than what had previously been
considered acceptable:

‘Abdu’l-Baha , The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 365–6.

17.  The relationship between Baha ’í  and Ba bí  laws

That which is worthy of His Essence is to worship Him for His sake,
without fear of fire, or hope of paradise.1
Evolvement of religious laws within each Revelation
Religious laws evolve not only from one Dispensation to the next but also
throughout each Revelation because societal requirements and conditions are
different at each point in history.  Even within a single revelation, ordinances and
narratives change and evolve.  “I was sent only to the lost sheep of Israel”
[Matthew 15:22–24] Jesus told the apostles; but later He said:  “… go and make
disciples of all nations.” (Matthew 28:18–20)  Muh ammad and His followers
initially prayed facing Jerusalem but later this changed to Mecca. (Qur’a n 2:142)
In Mecca, Muslims were still following the marriage practices of pre-Islamic
times; but in Medina, the Prophet Muh ammad revealed Sura 4, detailing the laws
that protected the rights of women, within and outside of marriage.
Likewise, the laws of the Ba b were progressively revealed during His six-year
Ministry.  It can be seen that these laws evolved from mostly unobtrusive
ordinances to more demanding ones.  According to the Ba b:
His first Book enjoined the observance of the laws of the Qur’án, so that the
people might not be seized with perturbation by reason of a new Book and a
new Revelation and might regard His Faith as similar to their own,
perchance they would not turn away from the Truth and ignore the thing for
which they had been called into being.2
For the same wise reason, even the full rank of the Ba b as the Qá’im (“He Who
will arise”), the Promised One of Islam, was not overtly disclosed until mid-
1848—chiefly through the dissemination of the Persian Baya n.3  It was only later
in His Ministry that the Ba b openly proclaimed to be the Qá’im.  At about the same
time, the Ba b was placed on trial by a religious court in Tabrí z where He openly
proclaimed:
I am, I am, I am, the promised One!  I am the One whose name you have for a
thousand years invoked, at whose mention you have risen, whose advent you
have longed to witness, and the hour of whose Revelation you have prayed
God to hasten.  Verily I say, it is incumbent upon the peoples of both the East
and the West to obey My word and to pledge allegiance to My person.4
Armin Eschraghi writes:
Appointment of Friday prayer leaders is a prerogative of the Hidden Imám
[the Báb’s messianic role] but for obvious pragmatic reasons this has been
suspended.  The Ba b, in his earliest writings, declared all Friday prayers as

The Ba b, Selections, p. 77.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 119.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 1:15.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 316.

Dispensation of the Ba b
unlawful if they were conducted by a leader not appointed by him (Kitáb
al-Rúh, sura 206).  Later he abrogated congregational obligatory prayers
altogether (Persian Bayán, 9:9).”1
In the Persian Baya n, the Ba b explained that a new corpus of laws must
precede any abrogation of prior law2; and therefore, at the beginning of His
Ministry, He did not abrogate any major Islamic law.  The new laws of the Ba b in
the Persian and Arabic Baya n were issued in Ma h-Ku  about four years after His
Declaration in Shí ra z.  Following this, the Ba b began openly acknowledging His
identity as the Promised Qá’im.  Gradually, the Ba bí s started to understand the
scope and implications of the teachings they had embraced and began breaking
away from Islamic laws.
The laws of the Baha ’í  Faith were also revealed gradually.  For example, after
a few years Baha ’u’lla h substituted a single obligatory prayer referred to in the
Kita b-i-Aqdas with a choice of three obligatory prayers.3
Another example as to how religious laws evolved within a dispensation is the
case of the pilgrimage rituals to the House of the Ba b in Shí ra z.  Baha ’u’lla h
prescribed the shaving of the head while, years later, in the Kita b-i-Aqdas this
practice was revoked:
All are charged with obedience to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas; whatsoever is revealed
therein is the Law of God amid His servants.  The injunction on pilgrims to
the sacred House to shave the head hath been lifted.4
Messianic expectations about the Qá’im
Most authors agree that the Iranian Shí ‘ah population expected the Qá’im to
appear dramatically provisioned with armies, full sovereignty and encompassed
by supernatural events.  “He was not expected to be a man of compassion and
grace,” wrote Ruhu’llah Mehrabkhani.  “He was to be a man of the sword who
would declare war against all the inhabitants of the earth.  The ensuing blood
bath would be such that its wave is to reach up to the stirrup of his horse.”5
According to the same author:
They believe that the first act the promised Qá’im shall perform will be to
raise an army and wage war to avenge the sufferings and persecutions of
the Shí‘ihs—a war that will cause rivers of blood to flow in retribution for
the wrongs done to the true believers [the early Shí‘ihs killed by their
Sunní opponents].6

Armin Eschraghi, “Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy”, p. 236.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 6:12.
Baha’is are required to recite one of the three obligatory prayers (short, medium or
long) on a daily basis.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Questions and Answers 10, p. 109.
Ruhu’llah Mehrabkhani, “Some Notes on Fundamental Principles”, pp. 22–43, esp. 29–
35.
Ruhu’llah Mehrabkhani, Mulla Husayn, p. 162.

17.  The relationship between Baha ’í  and Ba bí  laws

The narrative around the Islamic Qá’im was similar to the expectations of the
Jews about their Messiah in the light of Isaiah’s visions.  The Messiah from the Old
Testament was to be a powerful king who would liberate them from their foreign
yoke.  It is for this reason that the inscription INRI was placed on the top of the
cross of Jesus.  INRI is an abbreviation for Iesus Nazarenus, Rex Iudaeorum, i.e.
“Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews” (Matthew 2:2).  Isaiah (66:14–16) describes
the powers of the upcoming Messiah:
When you see this, your heart will rejoice and you will flourish like grass;
the hand of the Lord will be made known to his servants, but his fury will
be shown to his foes.
See, the Lord is coming with fire, and his chariots are like a whirlwind; he
will bring down his anger with fury, and his rebuke with flames of fire.  For
with fire and with his sword the Lord will execute judgment on all people.
In like manner to the transition from Judaism to Christianity, it was difficult
for most people in 19th century Iran to accept that the Qá’im would come to annul
the laws of Islam and to replace them with new ones.  As a point of fact, some
argued that the Ba b could not be the Qá’im because He did not take up the sword.1
Continuity rather than change has been the expectation of Islamic theologians.
Permanency of the Islamic order, however, was not the Will of God.  Instead, the
Ba b brought a totally different new order which seemed radical in relation to the
old one.  Shoghi Effendi writes:
The severe laws and injunctions revealed by the Báb can be properly
appreciated and understood only when interpreted in the light of His own
statements regarding the nature, purpose and character of His own
Dispensation.  As these statements clearly reveal, the Bábí Dispensation
was essentially in the nature of a religious and indeed social revolution,
and its duration had therefore to be short, but full of tragic events, of
sweeping and drastic reforms.  Those drastic measures enforced by the
Báb and His followers were taken with the view of undermining the very
foundations of Shi‘ih orthodoxy, and thus paving the way for the coming of
Bahá’u’lláh.  To assert the independence of the new Dispensation, and to
prepare also the ground for the approaching Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, the
Báb had therefore to reveal very severe laws, even though most of them
were never enforced.  But the mere fact that He revealed them was in itself
a proof of the independent character of His Dispensation and was
sufficient to create such widespread agitation, and excite such opposition
on the part of the clergy that led them to cause His eventual martyrdom.2
To propose, even in principle, the annulment of the old order was a defying
endeavour that challenged the legitimacy of the Iranian theocracy of the time.  It
also constituted a serious theological provocation to the senior divines who

Armin Eschraghi, “From Ba bí  Movement to Baha ’í  Faith”, p. 398.
Shoghi Effendi, Dawn of a New Day, pp. 77–78.

Dispensation of the Ba b
considered themselves the gatekeepers of truth.  Further, the new teaching
appears simultaneously to openly assert the unlimited power of the Ba b as an
independent Manifestation of God and the proclamation of a New Day.
As the Ba b proclaimed Himself to be the Qá’im, that is, the return of the 12th
Hidden Ima m,1 in the Persian Baya n He likewise pronounced Mulla  H usayn and
Mulla  ‘Alí  Bast a mí , the first and second Letters of the Living, to be the return of
the Prophet Muh ammad and Ima m ‘Alí 2 respectively.3  T a hirih was regarded by
the Ba bí s as the incarnation of Fa t ima,4 the Prophet Muh ammad’s daughter,
based on the assertion by the Ba b that the latter had returned to earth.5
Implementation of the laws of the Báb
Most of the laws of the Ba b mention, or are conditional upon, acceptance by
Him Whom God shall make Manifest.  These include laws of inheritance; obligatory
prayer; the calendar; travelling; pilgrimage; Qibla (Qiblih) direction;
H uqu qu’lla h; marriage; and the use of ringstones and talismans, among others,
all being a clear testimony of the purpose of the Revelation of the Ba b:
But for the sole reason of His being [Him Whom God will make manifest]
present amongst this people, We would have neither prescribed any law nor
laid down any prohibition.6
Much has been said about the harshness and inapplicability of the laws of the
Ba b in real-life.7  Some believed that the burdensome nature of His laws was a
sign that they would be short-lived.8  The laws of the Ba b were not fully enacted
as such because of the short span of His Ministry, the restrictions on
disseminating His writings created by a lack of access to printing presses, and
ongoing persecutions.9
Inapplicability
Many of the individual laws were problematic when it came to
implementation.  For example, all the graves of the Ba bí s were to contain the dust
from the “first and last [Ba bí ] believers”,10 and each believer was to mention God

1  According to the Shi‘ih belief, the 12th Ima m, a direct descendant of Muhammad,
disappeared in 873–874 CE and was expected to come back in the Day of Judgement.
‘Alí  was the cousin and son-in-law of Muh ammad and is considered the first believer.
See Baha ’u’lla h, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 184.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 1:3.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 32.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 1:4.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 149.
Armin Eschraghi, “From Ba bí  Movement to Baha ’í  Faith”, p. 390.
Hasan Balyuzi, Eminent Bahá’ís in the Time of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 132.
Christopher Buck, Paradise and Paradigm.
10 Names were not specified.  The Ba b, Persian Baya n 8:11.

17.  The relationship between Baha ’í  and Ba bí  laws

four thousand times each day.1  The Baya n prescribed turning towards Him
Whom God shall make Manifest for the obligatory prayer although Baha ’u’lla h
only revealed Himself many years later.  The Ba b also ordained that His House
should be filled with diamonds from the ground to the roof, and be provisioned
with 95 doors.  In addition, it was ordained that the walls of those towns should
be built of red rubies.2
There were other ordinances prescribed by the Ba b that have been
considered as idiosyncratic or eccentric.  In those cases, the Ba b was stipulating
a law in direct opposition to an Islamic ordinance, which He was abrogating.  For
example, tattoos were forbidden in Islam but the Ba b recommended them.
Similarly, in defiance of Shariah law, the Ba b allowed His followers to break eggs
before cooking them, and permitted the eating of fertilized eggs (“eggs with
blood”)—unless it was abhorrent to the person.3
Harshness
For instance, in the Persian Baya n there is a prescription that the properties
of non-believers should be transferred to the Ba bí s because the enjoyment of
material things should be accompanied by belief in His revelation and an
appreciation of God’s munificence.  However, two impossible conditions are
given; firstly, the order must come from the sovereign and secondly, the
procedure should not cause loss or sadness to anyone.4  Likewise, only believers
were to be allowed to live in five specific regions:  namely, Fa rs, Iraq,
A dharbayja n, Khura sa n and Ma zindara n as people in those lands would be closer
to God, and non-believers were not to be permitted in those areas.5  This
command was to stay in effect until the appearance of Him Whom God shall make
Manifest.
Many of the laws of the Ba b were difficult to implement and there were
reasons for that.  The Ba b wrote about the establishment of a theocracy ruled by
a Ba bí  king6 but under the sovereignty of the Ba b.  The Ba bí  king ideally had the
authority to run an army,7 levy taxes8 and appoint government ministers.9   E.G.
Browne remarked that: “the original Ba bí s … aimed at a Babi theocracy and a
reign of the saints on earth…… and were only interested for the most part in the
triumph of their faith, not only in any projects of social or political reform”10

The Ba b, Persian Baya n 8:19.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 6:4.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 10:15.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 5:5; and Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 135.
Muh ammad Afna n, “The Ba b’s Baya n”, pp. 7–16.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 4:5; 5:5; 7:16; & Arabic Baya n 9:3; 11:2; 11:13; 11:17.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 5:6; 5:19; 4:9.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 5:19.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 11:2.
10  E.G. Browne. Materials for the Study of the Bábí Religion, p. xv.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Armin Eschraghi remarked that, “The main theological problem for the
followers of the Ba b was that a considerable portion of Bayanic laws appeared to
presume the existence of a society where the population and its rulers would be
Ba bí s.”1 Furthermore, the Ba b permitted His followers to engage in religious wars
and allowed future Ba bí  kings to conquer countries.2  According to Mangol Bayat,
“There is in the Baya n an implicit assumption that Iran would eventually adopt
Babism as the state religion”3.
If armies and harsh laws were proposed, they matched the Shí ‘a aggressive
rhetoric associated with the expected prophecies about the Qá’im, which,
according to the Kita b-i-I qa n, should be allegorically interpreted.  While the Ba b
was issuing ordinances, such as the previously mentioned transfer of properties
from non-believers to believers,4 He was simultaneously imposing impossible
conditions for their practice.5  For instance prohibitions against:
•
causing sadness
•
entering someone’s house without permission
•
coercive conversions to His Faith.
Leniency
The harshness of the laws of the Ba b is juxtaposed against the leniency of the
punishments.  Chastisements for breaking a Ba bí  law consisted of paying fines or
prohibition of intimate marital relations for a period of time.  However, physical
chastisement such as imprisonment or corporal punishment was not enjoined.6
The penalty for causing sadness was nineteen mithqals of gold, but only if the
offender could afford it; whereas intentional murder was punished with the
payment of one-thousand fold blood money, about a quarter of a current million
dollars, as well as the loss of intimate marital relationships for nineteen years.
Nature of religious laws in the Bábí-Bahá’í Faith
The Ba b observes that all the laws enshrined in the Persian Baya n have a
spiritual foundation because they “have been revealed on the basis of the
recognition of God and divine mysteries.”7  The Ba b also wrote that “there is no
paradise more exalted than the very act of observing the ordinances of God.”8  In a

Armin Eschraghi, “From Ba bí  Movement to Baha ’í  Faith”, p. 390.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 6:4.
Mangol Bayat, Mysticism and dissent, p. 106.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 5:5.
Muh ammad Afna n, “The Ba b’s Baya n”.
See Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 368.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 326.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 312.

17.  The relationship between Baha ’í  and Ba bí  laws

similar vein, Baha ’u’lla h has described His laws as “the lamps of My loving
providence among My servants”1 and “the keys of My mercy for My creatures.”2
Since the early beginnings of the Baha ’í  Faith, it has been understood that the
Revelations of the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h would develop into a single and unique
global Faith.  The Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h are referred to by Shoghi Effendi as the
“twin Luminaries of the Baha ’í  Revelation”,3 with the Ba b being “the martyr
Prophet and co-founder of their Faith”.4  Their teachings form one vast treasure
trove of divine pearls and jewels for the benefit of humanity.
Shoghi Effendi said of the Ba b that His “Dispensation in a sense will last as
long as Baha ’u’lla h’s lasts.”5  As a point of fact, out of the eleven holy days of the
Badí ‘ calendar, four of them are related to the Ba b, namely, the birth, declaration
and martyrdom of the Ba b as well as the celebration of Naw-Ru z (New Year)
established in the Baya n as the Day of God.6  As the following letter states, both
Dispensations form one global Faith with a continuing, all-encompassing goal:
Shoghi Effendi feels that the unity of the Bahá’í Revelation as one complete
whole embracing the Faith of the Báb should be emphasized … The Faith
of the Báb should not be divorced from that of Bahá’u’lláh.  Though the
teachings of the Bayán have been abrogated and superseded by the laws
of the Aqdas, yet due to the fact that the Báb considered Himself as the
Forerunner of Bahá’u’lláh, we would regard His Dispensation together
with that of Bahá’u’lláh as forming one entity, the former being
introductory to the advent of the latter.7
The Baya n was essentially superseded by the revelation of the Kita b-i-Aqdas
around 1873.  Until then the Baya n remained as the central book.  In the acclaimed
Tablet of Ah mad, revealed in 1865, Baha ’u’lla h affirms:
Say:  O people be obedient to the ordinances of God, which have been enjoined
in the Bayán by the Glorious, the Wise One.  Verily He is the King of the
Messengers and His book is the Mother Book did ye but know.8
From His Writings, it seems the Ba b expected that many of His laws would be
abrogated by Baha ’u’lla h.
Better is it for a person to write down but one of His verses than to transcribe
the whole of the Bayán and all the books which have been written in the

Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 20.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 20.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 237.
Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny, p. 234.
Shoghi Effendi, Dawn of a New Day, p. 94.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 6:14.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi included in Introduction to The Kitáb-i-
Aqdas, p. 8.
Bahá’í Prayers, p. 210.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Dispensation of the Bayán.  For everything shall be set aside except His
Writings [Bahá’u’lláh], which will endure until the following Revelation.1
The Kita b-i-Aqdas2 was revealed in 1872–1873, when, according to Baha ’u’lla h,
the circumstances were deemed to be appropriate for the Cause and the
believers.3  After the revelation of the Kita b-i-Aqdas, Baha ’u’lla h summarized His
actions regarding the currency of the laws enunciated by the Ba b, as follows:
Our Exalted Herald—may the life of all else besides Him be offered up for His
sake—hath revealed certain laws.  However, in the realm of His Revelation
these laws were made subject to Our sanction, hence this Wronged One hath
put some of them into effect by embodying them in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas in
different words.  Others We set aside.  He holdeth in His hand the authority.
He doeth what He willeth and He ordaineth whatsoever He pleaseth.  He is
the Almighty, the All-Praised.  There are also ordinances newly revealed.
Blessed are they that attain.  Blessed are they that observe His precepts.4
The Ba b abrogated innumerable Islamic laws, from both the Qur’a n and
hadiths (oral traditions).  He created His own religious legislature, thus freeing
Baha ’u’lla h from this role.  Baha ’u’lla h confirms this principle in The Kitáb-i-
Aqdas:
Verily, He [the Báb] revealed certain laws so that, in this Dispensation, the
Pen of the Most High might have no need to move in aught but the
glorification of His own transcendent Station and His most effulgent Beauty.
Since, however, We have wished to evidence Our bounty unto you, We have,
through the power of truth, set forth these laws with clarity and mitigated
what We desire you to observe.  He, verily, is the Munificent, the Generous.5
Response of Bahá’u’lláh to the laws of the Bayán
Several of the laws of the Ba b were subject to clarification or repeal when
Baha ’u’lla h revealed His own book of laws, the Kita b-i-Aqdas, about twenty-five
years after the Baya n.  “The Ba b states that His laws are provisional and depend
upon the acceptance of the future Manifestation,” Shoghi Effendi affirmed in a
letter written on his behalf.  “This is why in the Book of Aqdas Baha ’u’lla h
sanctions some of the laws found in the Baya n, modifies others and sets aside
many.”6  The Universal House of Justice states:

The Ba b, Selections, p. 91.
The original document, al-Kita bu’l-Aqdas (in Arabic), was not translated in full into
English until 1992 when it was published under the Persian form of the name, The
Kitáb-i-Aqdas.
Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, vol. 3, p. 279.
Baha ’u’lla h, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 132.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 71.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi included in Introduction to The Kitáb-i-
Aqdas, p. 8.

17.  The relationship between Baha ’í  and Ba bí  laws

"For a number of years", Bahá'u'lláh states in one of His Tablets, "petitions
reached the Most Holy Presence from various lands begging for the laws of
God, but We held back the Pen ere the appointed time had come."
Not until twenty years from the birth of His Prophetic Mission in the Sí ya h-
Cha l of T ihra n had elapsed did Baha 'u'lla h reveal the Kita b-i-Aqdas, the
Repository of the laws of His Dispensation.  Even after its revelation the Aqdas
was withheld by Him for some time before it was sent to the friends in Persia.
This divinely purposed delay in the revelation of the basic laws of God for
this age, and the subsequent gradual implementation of their provisions,
illustrate the principle of progressive revelation which applies even within
the ministry of each Prophet.1
Shoghi Effendi has also explained:
The formulation by Bahá'u'lláh, in His Kitáb-i-Aqdas, of the fundamental
laws of His Dispensation was followed, as His Mission drew to a close, by
the enunciation of certain precepts and principles which lie at the very
core of His Faith, by the reaffirmation of truths He had previously
proclaimed, by the elaboration and elucidation of some of the laws He had
already laid down, by the revelation of further prophecies and warnings,
and by the establishment of subsidiary ordinances designed to
supplement the provisions of His Most Holy Book.  These were recorded
in unnumbered Tablets, which He continued to reveal until the last days of
His earthly life....
Concerning the implementation of the laws themselves Bahá'u'lláh wrote
in one of His Tablets:  "Indeed the laws of God are like unto the ocean and
the children of men as fish, did they but know it.  However, in observing them
one must exercise tact and wisdom....  Since most people are feeble and far-
removed from the purpose of God, therefore one must observe tact and
prudence under all conditions, so that nothing might happen that could
cause disturbance and dissension or raise clamour among the heedless.
Verily, His bounty hath surpassed the whole universe and His bestowals
encompassed all that dwell on earth.  One must guide mankind to the ocean
of true understanding in a spirit of love and tolerance.  The Kitáb-i-Aqdas
itself beareth eloquent testimony to the loving providence of God."
… "Know of a certainty that in every Dispensation the light of Divine
Revelation hath been vouchsafed to men in direct proportion to their
spiritual capacity.  Consider the sun.  How feeble its rays the moment it
appeareth above the horizon.  How gradually its warmth and potency
increase as it approacheth its zenith, enabling meanwhile all created things
to adapt themselves to the growing intensity of its light.  How steadily it
declineth until it reacheth its setting point.  Were it all of a sudden to
manifest the energies latent within it, it would no doubt cause injury to all
created things. ...  In like manner, if the Sun of Truth were suddenly to reveal,

The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Note 126, pp. 219–220.

Dispensation of the Ba b
at the earliest stages of its manifestation, the full measure of the potencies
which the providence of the Almighty hath bestowed upon it, the earth of
human understanding would waste away and be consumed; for men's hearts
would neither sustain the intensity of its revelation, nor be able to mirror
forth the radiance of its light.  Dismayed and overpowered, they would cease
to exist."1
As mentioned a few pages previously, it is clear that the Ba b expected that
many of His laws would be abrogated by Baha ’u’lla h.  One difference between the
Baya n and the Kita b-i-Aqdas is that the latter did not deal with a large number of
specific individual or social regulations but made provisions for the creation in
the future of a new institution, the Universal House of Justice, which would enact
new laws according to the needs of the time.  Furthermore, Baha ’u’lla h widened
the scope of personal responsibility and individual conscience in implementing
His laws.2  In contrast to about 8,000 verses in the Persian Baya n, the Kita b-i-
Aqdas consists of 474 verses allotted between 190 paragraphs.3

While reviewing the continuity between the Ba bí  and Baha ’í  dispensations in
respect of their joint history, and the development of their teachings and
ordinances to form a single entity, we have noted the evolutionary nature of the
teachings of the Ba b.  Of particular importance is the statement of the Ba b
regarding the imminent and overarching revelation of Him Whom God shall make
Manifest
Well is it with him who fixeth his gaze upon the Order of Bahá’u’lláh, and
rendereth thanks unto his Lord.  For He will assuredly be made manifest.  God
hath indeed irrevocably ordained it in the Bayán.4
As to the role of the Kita b-i-Aqdas, the Universal House of Justice writes that
it “removes those elements of past religious codes that now constitute obstacles
to the emerging unification of the world and the reconstruction of human
society”.5  The Universal House of Justice remarks that its contents “constitute the
kernel of a vast range of law that will arise in centuries to come.”6
Shoghi Effendi, in his account of the first hundred years of the Baha ’í
dispensation in God Passes By, gave the following description of the Kita b-i-
Aqdas:
The laws and ordinances that constitute the major theme of this Book,
Bahá’u’lláh, moreover, has specifically characterized as “the breath of life
unto all created things,” as “the mightiest stronghold,” as the “fruits” of His

Shoghi Effendi, Synopsis and Codification of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pp. 4–5.
Roshan Danesh, The Dimensions of Bahá’í Law.
Muh ammad Afna n, “The Ba b’s Baya n”, pp. 7–16.
The Ba b in Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 146–7.
Introduction to The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 2.
Introduction to The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 4.

17.  The relationship between Baha ’í  and Ba bí  laws

“Tree,” as “the highest means for the maintenance of order in the world and
the security of its peoples,” as “the lamps of His wisdom and loving-
providence,” as “the sweet-smelling savor of His garment,” and the “keys” of
His “mercy” to His creatures.  “This Book,” He Himself testifies, “is a heaven
which We have adorned with the stars of Our commandments and
prohibitions.”  “Blessed the man,” He, moreover, has stated, “who will read
it, and ponder the verses sent down in it by God, the Lord of Power, the
Almighty.  Say, O men!  Take hold of it with the hand of resignation … By My
life!  It hath been sent down in a manner that amazeth the minds of men.
Verily, it is My weightiest testimony unto all people, and the proof of the All-
Merciful unto all who are in heaven and all who are on earth.”  And again:
“Blessed the palate that savoreth its sweetness, and the perceiving eye that
recognizeth that which is treasured therein, and the understanding heart
that comprehendeth its allusions and mysteries.  By God!  Such is the majesty
of what hath been revealed therein, and so tremendous the revelation of its
veiled allusions that the loins of utterance shake when attempting their
description.”  And finally:  “In such a manner hath the Kitáb-i-Aqdas been
revealed that it attracteth and embraceth all the divinely appointed
Dispensations.  Blessed those who peruse it!  Blessed those who apprehend it!
Blessed those who meditate upon it!  Blessed those who ponder its meaning!
So vast is its range that it hath encompassed all men ere their recognition of
it.  Erelong will its sovereign power, its pervasive influence and the greatness
of its might be manifested on earth.”1


Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 215–216.



Transition from the Bábí to the Bahá’í Faith
Over a hundred and seventy years have now elapsed since the Ba b was
executed (1850) by a firing squad in Tabrí z.  Since that time, the process He started
in 1844 has continued to unfold with great velocity, influence and success.
Renewed interest in Babism
We know that the Faith of the Ba b expanded very quickly.  It is noteworthy
that Christianity took at least seventy decades to reach China1 after the Jesus’
crucifixion of Jesus while the Ba bí  Faith achieved the same milestone only a
decade after the martyrdom of the Ba b.2
Similarly, Christendom only arrived in England in CE 597, while the Faith of
the Ba b had been already mentioned by The London Times one year after its birth.
In its regular edition of 1 November 1845, an article was published under the title
“Persia” which described the journey of the Ba b to Mecca, His return to Persia
and the suffering of the Ba bí s in Shí ra z.  As predicted in the Bible, “… as the
lightning comes from the east and shines as far as the west”,3 the new Gospel
illuminated the Western world as well as the rest of the world where that famous
international newspaper was read, announcing the Manifestation of the Ba b.
In 2019, the 200th anniversary of His birth was celebrated across the globe4—
a realization of the words revealed through the Ba b at the start of His ministry:
“Be patient, O Apple of My eyes.  Verily, God has pledged with Him Thy might in all
the lands.”5
In recognition of the significance of this occasion, testimonials flowed from
prominent dignitaries, including from formal sessions of the Australian
Parliament and the California State Senate as well as members of the parliaments
of New Zealand and the United Kingdom.
The President of Israel, Reuven Rivlin, visited the Shrine of the Ba b to honour
the occasion.  Also, the President of India, Ram Nath Kovind, publicly paid homage
to the Prophet-Martyr of the Baha ’í  Faith with the following words:
The Writings which He has left behind has continued to guide and inspire
us, as they expressed profound eternal truths and summon the world to an
exalted standard of conduct ….  It is my hope that those gathered here

Daniel Bays, A New History of Christianity in China.
H a jí  Mí rza  Muh ammad ‘Alí , a maternal cousin of the Ba b lived in Shanghai (1862–1868)
and then in Hong Kong (1870–1897).  See Seow, The Pure in Heart.
Matthew 24:27.
The Universal House of Justice to the Baha ’í s of the world, 8 November 2019.
The Ba b in Javidukht Khadem, Zikrullah Khadem, p. 274.

18.  Transition from the Ba bí  to the Baha ’í  Faith

today, along with every other Indian, strives to fulfill the vision of the Báb
to arise to selfless and steadfast service and to make the welfare of
humanity their common and collective aim.1
The interest in Babism continues.  In recent decades, several Western scholars
including Richard Losch,2 Harsha Ram,3 Jack Kalpakjan,4 Tadd Ferne e,5 Nikki
Keddie,6 Ju rgen Osterhammel,7 and Geoffrey Nash8 confirmed that the Ba b was
an influential religious, social, intellectual and moral reformer of nineteenth
century Persia.  In 2018, Christopher De Bellaigue wrote in his book The Islamic
Enlightenment that “The Babi movement, which began in the 1840s, went on to
become an important catalyst of social progressiveness in mid-nineteenth-
century Iran, promoting interreligious peace, social equality between the sexes
and revolutionary anti-monarchism.”9
The Báb as a new force in human development
The Prophets of God stimulate human development both at the spiritual and
at the intellectual level.  Jesus Christ’s revelation resulted in advances in the arts
and sciences in the Western world and Muh ammad’s revelation led to the
emergence of the Islamic civilization which inspired the European Renaissance.10
Baha ’u’lla h Himself confirms the influence of the Messengers of God on
humanity’s progress and specifically refers to the impact of Jesus Christ:
By sacrificing Himself, however, a fresh capacity was infused into all created
things.  Its evidences, as witnessed in all the peoples of the earth, are now
manifest before thee.  The deepest wisdom which the sages have uttered, the
profoundest learning which any mind hath unfolded, the arts which the
ablest hands have produced, the influence exerted by the most potent of
rulers, are but manifestations of the quickening power released by His
transcendent, His all-pervasive, and resplendent Spirit.11
With respect to the Ba b, the historian Nabí l noted His suffering during an
agonizing sea journey to Mecca due to the primitive maritime technology of the
time and prayed that the means of seafaring transportation would improve.  As
Nabí l wrote:

Bahá’í
World
News
Service,
December
2019.

Available
from:
https://news.bahai.org/story/1379/
Richard Losch, The Many Faces of Faith.
Harsha Ram, “Literature as World Revolution”.
Jack Kalpakian, “Representing the Unpresentable”.
Tadd Graham Ferne e, “Modernity and Nation-making”.
Keddie & Yann, “Continuity and Change Under the Qajars”.
Ju rgen Osterhammel, The Transformation of the World, p. 896.
Geoffrey Nash, “Aryan and Semite”.
Christopher De Bellaigue, The Islamic Enlightenment, p. 96.
10 Hasan Balyuzi, Muḥammad and the Course of Islám.
11 Baha ’u’lla h, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 85–86.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Within a short space of time, since that prayer was offered, the evidences
of a remarkable improvement in all forms of maritime transport have
greatly multiplied, and the Persian Gulf, which in those days hardly
possessed a single steam-driven vessel, now boasts a fleet of ocean liners
that can, within the range of a few days and in the utmost comfort, carry
the people of Fárs on their annual pilgrimage to H ija z [Mecca and Medina].
The peoples of the West, among whom the first evidences of this great
Industrial Revolution have appeared, are, alas, as yet wholly unaware of
the Source whence this mighty stream, this great motive power,
proceeds—a force that has revolutionised every aspect of their material
life.  Their own history testifies to the fact that in the year which witnessed
the dawn of this glorious Revelation, there suddenly appeared evidences
of an industrial and economic revolution that the people themselves
declare to have been unprecedented in the history of mankind.1
In their book The Báb o la Puerta a un Mundo Mejor, Jose  Enrique Ruiz-
Dome nec and Arash Arjomandi2 argue that the Revelation of the Ba b brought an
unprecedented impetus to the development of scientific discovery in the
nineteenth century.  The authors cite the discovery of the telegraph in 1844, the
development of the principles of thermodynamics in the 1840s, the industrial
production of steel in 1855, the first oil refinery in 1856, the first transatlantic cable
in 1858 and the invention of the phonautograph in 1858.  Similarly,
electromagnetism was discovered in 1859, the London metro opened in 1863 and
dynamite was invented in 1867.  Other new inventions of the time included the
phonograph in 1877 and the electric light bulb in 1879.  In addition, the first
commercial automobile was sold in 1886, the discovery of the rabies vaccine by
Pasteur occurred in 1885 and aspirin was patented in 1889.  It was during this
period (1859) that Charles Darwin established his theory of evolution.  As ‘Abdu’l-
Baha  acknowledged:
The manifestation of such marvellous signs and mighty undertakings, the
influence exerted upon the thoughts and minds of the people, the laying of
the foundations of progress, and the establishment of the prerequisites of
success and prosperity by a young merchant constitute the greatest proof
that He [the Báb] was a universal Educator—a fact that no fair-minded
person would ever hesitate to acknowledge.3
The Shrine of the Báb
A magnificent shrine erected on the slopes of Mount Carmel now guards the
precious remains of the Ba b.  It is located close to the “Retreat of Elijah, Whose
return the Ba b Himself symbolizes.”4  The Shrine of the Ba b, built on the spot

Nabí l-i-A‘z am, The Dawn-Breakers, p. 131.
Ruiz-Dome nec & Arjomandi, The Báb o la Puerta a un Mundo Mejor.
‘Abdu’l-Baha , Some Answered Questions, p. 31.
The Bahá’í World, Vol. XII, pp. 349–50.

18.  Transition from the Ba bí  to the Baha ’í  Faith

designated by Baha ’u’lla h, was described by the Guardian as “the Queen of Carmel
enthroned on God’s Holy Mountain, crowned with glowing gold, robed in
shimmering white and girdled with emerald green, a sight enchanting every eye,
whether viewed from the air, the sea, the plain or the hill.”1
Shoghi Effendi wrote of the Shrine of the Ba b:
Upon thee, O Queen of Carmel, be the purest, the most tender salutations,
the fairest, the most gracious blessings!  Glorified is He Whose footsteps
have ennobled the spot whereon thou standest, Who ordained thy Seat,
and Who extolled thee in His Tablet and Book.  How great is the potency of
thy might, a might which has bewildered the souls of the favored ones of
God and His Messengers.
Methinks I behold thee in my dreams established upon thy glorious throne,
attired in thy white raiment, crowned with thy golden crown, resplendent
with the lights shining within thee and around thee, calling aloud in ringing
tones and raising thy voice between earth and heaven.
Methinks I perceive the souls of the holy ones and of the dwellers of the
realms above hastening toward thee with utmost joy, eagerness and
ecstasy, pointing to thee, circling round thee, inhaling the perfume of thy
flowers and roses, seeking blessing from the earth of thy precincts, bowing
their foreheads to the ground before thee in recognition of the majesty and
glory which surround the Holy Dust reposing within thee, the Pearl which
is enshrined in thy bosom.
Blessed, immeasurably blessed is the person who visits thee and circles
around thee, who serves at thy threshold, waters thy flowers, inhales the
fragrance of holiness from thy roses, celebrates thy praise and glorifies thy
station for the love of God, thy Creator, in this hallowed and radiant, this
great, august and wondrous age.2
‘Abdu’l-Baha , envisioned future sovereigns of the world disembarking in
Haifa and “… bareheaded and barefooted, and carrying on their shoulders vases
studded with jewels, they advance toward the Shrine.”3  In 2008, the UNESCO added
the Shrine of the Ba b to the UNESCO World Heritage list in recognition of its
“Outstanding Universal Value” to the common heritage of humanity.4
A vast collection of the original Writings of the Ba b, as well as many personal
relics, are kept in the International Baha ’í  Archives as a tangible remnant of His
presence.  Importantly, His painted portrait is preserved in that building, the

Ru h í yyih Rabba ní , The Priceless Pearl, p. 246.
Shoghi Effendi in Javidukht Khadem, Zikrullah Khadem, pp. 265–266.
‘Abdu’l-Baha  in Javidukht Khadem, Zikrullah Khadem, 1990, p. 264.
See UNESCO World Heritage Centre (2008–07–08).  Three New Sites Inscribed on
UNESCO’s
World
Heritage
List.

Last
retrieved
April
from
https://whc.unesco.org/en/news/452

Dispensation of the Ba b
viewing of which is “… an inestimable privilege and blessing … as past
generations were denied a glimpse of the Face of the Manifestation, once He had
passed on.”1
Growth of the Bábí-Bahá’í Faith
Years after the martyrdom of the Ba b in 1850, when the appearance of
Baha ’u’lla h (The Glory of God, in Arabic) occurred, the assurances of the Ba b
regarding the coming of Him Whom God shall make Manifest were fully realized.
Referring to the continuation between the Ba bí  and the Baha ’í  religions,
Baha ’u’lla h has stated that, “They that have turned away from the latter
Manifestation [Baha ’u’lla h] have indeed failed to recognize the former [the Ba b].2
Concurrently, with the acceptance of the Revelation of Baha ’u’lla h, about eight
million believers3 around the world have recognized the divine station of the Ba b
and learned to love Him in their hearts.  The Faith of the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h has
spread from its initial spark in one city, i.e., Shí ra z, in 1844 to nearly 100,000
localities by 2020.4  After Christianity, it is considered the world’s second-most
widespread religion5 established in 218 countries, among 2,100 ethic and tribal
minorities6 and its literature has been translated to more than 700 language and
dialects.7  It all happened as per the promise revealed to the Ba b, “… God hath
indeed pledged to establish Thy sovereignty throughout all countries and over the
people that dwell therein.”8
The life of Bahá’u’lláh
Baha ’u’lla h was a distinguished champion of the Cause of the Ba b, and n
Persian aristocrat whose family had served the crown with loyalty and honesty.
Following the death of the Ba b in 1850, Baha ’u’lla h was imprisoned and then
banished to Baghda d in the neighbouring country of Iraq where, in 1863, He made
the public declaration of His divine role as a Manifestation of God.
In the years after His declaration, the Muslim hierarchy and the Persian
government ferociously opposed the teachings of Baha ’u’lla h for the same
reasons as their execution of the Ba b.  As a result of those persecutions,
thousands of Baha ’í s were martyred for their beliefs in the second half of the 19th
century—repeating the tragedy of the Ba bí  believers.

Letter written on behalf of the Guardian 13 November 1944 to an individual believer.
Cited in Helen Hornby, Lights of Guidance, p. 471.
Baha ’u’lla h in Immortal Youth, p. 28; Days of Remembrance, § 28.5.
Peter Smith, “The History of the Ba bí  and Baha ’í  Faiths”.
Peter Smith, “The History of the Ba bí  and Baha ’í  Faiths”.
Encyclopædia Britannica.  “Worldwide Adherents of All Religions by Six Continental
Areas, Mid-2002”.  Encyclopædia Britannica, 2002.
Barrett, et al, “World Summary”.
Martin Douglas, “The Baha ’í  Faith in its Second Century”, pp. 61–66.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 57.

18.  Transition from the Ba bí  to the Baha ’í  Faith

Baha ’u’lla h was subsequently banished from Baghda d to the cities of
Constantinople (present-day Istanbul) and then Adrianople (present-day
Edirne), all of which were part of the Ottoman Empire.  The final banishment of
Baha ’u’lla h was to the penal colony of ‘Akka  in Palestine (present-day Israel) in
1868 and He remained there as a prisoner of the Ottoman Empire until his death
on 29 May 1892, having endured about forty years of exile and imprisonment.  The
Baha ’í s consider the location of His sepulchre as the most sacred spot in the
world.
Baha ’u’lla h states:  “Well nigh a hundred volumes of luminous verses and
perspicuous words have already been sent down from the heaven of the will of Him
Who is the Revealer of signs, and are available unto all.”1
These Holy Writings encompass metaphysical, doctrinal, ethical, mystical and
social issues, including the principles of:  independent investigation of truth; the
elimination of religious, national or racial prejudices; the equality of rights
between men and women; the essential harmony between science and religion;
the elimination of extremes of poverty and wealth; the creation of an
international tribunal of justice to safeguard world peace; and the espousal of an
international auxiliary language to enable communication and understanding
between the peoples of the planet.
Baha ’u’lla h issued bold and commanding epistles to the monarchs and rulers
of the world.  These included:  Queen Victoria, Napoleon III, Pope Pius IX, the Czar
Alexander II of Russia, the Emperor Franz Joseph of Austria, Kaiser Wilhelm I of
Germany, the Sha h of Iran and the Sultan of the Ottoman Empire.  The “crowned
heads” were summoned to reconcile their differences and dwell as members of a
united family.  His Message was one of universal peace and amity.  Baha ’u’lla h not
only honoured the Message of the Ba b but took it to new heights by spreading it
all over the world.
Two years before His ascension, Baha ’u’lla h granted a unique interview to
Professor Edward Granville Browne of Cambridge University, where He
summarized the main purpose of His revelation:
We desire but the good of the world and the happiness of the nations; yet
they deem us a stirrer up of strife and sedition worthy of bondage and
banishment ….  That all nations should become one in faith and all men as
brothers; that the bonds of affection and unity between the sons of men
should be strengthened; that diversity of religion should cease, and
differences of race be annulled—what harm is there in this? …  Yet so it shall
be; these fruitless strifes, these ruinous wars shall pass away, and the ‘Most
Great Peace’ shall come ….  Do not you in Europe need this also?  Is this not
what Christ foretold? …  Yet do we see your kings and rulers lavishing their
treasures more freely on means for the destruction of the human race than
on that which would conduce to the happiness of mankind ….  These strifes

Baha 'u'lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 115.

Dispensation of the Ba b
and this bloodshed and discord must cease, and all men be as one kindred
and one family ….  Let not a man glory in this, that he loves his country; let
him rather glory in this, that he loves his kind ….1
The relevance of the teachings of the Báb to a modern world
Nowadays, no one can dispute the increasing threat to the security of the
world, foreshadowed by the gloomy clouds, which darkened the skies of the
nineteenth century—a century fraught with “blights of war, imperialism, and
slavery, and suffering the oppression of prejudice, growing materialism, and loss
of faith”2 .  Over sixty major wars have been fought between 1844 and now for
reasons involving national, racial and religious prejudices.3  In a moribund world
currently in turmoil and in accelerating disorder and destruction, the words of
the blessed Ba b to the “peoples of the West” are as relevant today as they were in
1844:
Become as true brethren in the one and indivisible religion of God, free from
distinction, for verily God desireth that your hearts should become mirrors
unto your brethren in the Faith, so that ye find yourselves reflected in them,
and they in you.4
And again with these calls to peace and unity:
O peoples of the earth!  Verily the resplendent Light of God hath appeared in
your midst … that ye may be guided aright to the ways of peace and, by the
leave of God, step out of the darkness into the light and onto this far-extended
Path of Truth.5
We have created you from one tree and have caused you to be as the leaves
and fruit of the same tree, that haply ye may become a source of comfort to
one another.6

At a time characterized by pessimism and cynicism, the message of the Ba b
resonates even more clearly today, bringing a message of joy, hope and mutual
understanding to posterity as a new morning for humanity:
Yea, that promise hath indeed come true and the decree of God hath been
accomplished as He hath ordained.  Assuredly we are today living in the Days
of God.  These are the glorious days on the like of which the sun hath never
risen in the past.  These are the days which the people in bygone times

Baha ’u’lla h in John Esslemont, Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era, pp. 39–40.
Elham Afnan, “A Twofold Mission”, p. 1.
Britannica.  “Wars, Battles & Armed Conflicts”.  Last retrieved on 30 April 2022 from
www.britannica.com/topic/list-of-wars-2031197
The Ba b, Selections, p. 56.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 61.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 129.

18.  Transition from the Ba bí  to the Baha ’í  Faith

eagerly expected.  What hath then befallen you that ye are fast asleep?  These
are the days wherein God hath caused the Daystar of Truth to shine
resplendent.  What hath then caused you to keep your silence?  These are the
appointed days which ye have been yearningly awaiting in the past—the
days of the advent of divine justice.  Render ye thanks unto God, O ye
concourse of believers.1
In a talk given in America in 1912, ‘Abdu’l-Baha  explains the significance of the
life of the Ba b for a Baha ’í  believer:
Consider how the Báb endured difficulties and tribulations; how He gave His
life in the Cause of God; how He was attracted to the love of the Blessed
Beauty, Bahá’u’lláh; and how He announced the glad tidings of His
manifestation.  We must follow His heavenly example; we must be self-
sacrificing and aglow with the fire of the love of God.  We must partake of the
bounty and grace of the Lord, for the Báb has admonished us to arise in
service to the Cause of God, to be absolutely severed from all else save God
during the day of the Blessed Perfection, Bahá’u’lláh, to be completely
attracted by the love of Bahá’u’lláh, to love all humanity for His sake, to be
lenient and merciful to all for Him and to upbuild the oneness of the world of
humanity.2


The Ba b, Selections, p. 161.
‘Abdu’l-Baha , The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 139.











Part IV
The laws of the Báb
This section discusses the main laws of the Ba b, beginning with a chapter
covering the abrogation of Jewish, Christian and Islamic laws, whose annulment
was confirmed by Baha ’u’lla h.  This is followed by a discussion of the laws of the
Ba b abrogated by Baha ’u’lla h; and then, a chapter on Ba bí  laws modified and/or
confirmed by Baha ’u’lla h.  The final chapter focuses on some Ba bí  ordinances not
discussed in the Kita b-i-Aqdas.



Abrogation of Jewish, Christian and Islamic
laws whose annulment is confirmed by Bahá’u’lláh
A number of Jewish, Christian and Islamic laws underwent transformation or
were abrogated in the Baya n and in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.  As previously discussed,
the Ba b gave Him Whom God shall make Manifest full authority over His own and
past revelations:
The tree of affirmation, by turning aside from Him, is accounted as the tree
of denial, and the tree of denial, by turning towards Him, is accounted as the
tree of affirmation.1
Jewish laws
The following injunctions about Jewish religious laws are discussed in this
section:
•
Prohibition against the use of pulpits and exhortation to sit in chairs
•
Prohibition of congregational prayers or rituals
•
Abolition of the priesthood
•
Semen is declared clean
•
Dietary injunctions
Prohibition against use of pulpits and exhortation to sit in chairs
Pulpits are used by some religions.  The Ba b wrote in the Persian Baya n:  “It is
not permitted to ascend into pulpits; and men are commanded to sit in chairs.”2  The
Persian Baya n also prescribes that children should sit on chairs in schools rather
than on the floor as was the 19th century custom3
The prohibition against using pulpits was confirmed by Baha ’u’lla h in the
Kita b-i-Aqdas:
‘Ye have been prohibited from making use of pulpits.  Whoso wisheth to recite
unto you the verses of his Lord, let him sit on a chair placed upon a dais, that
he may make mention of God, his Lord, and the Lord of all mankind.  It is
pleasing to God that ye should seat yourselves on chairs and benches as a
mark of honour for the love ye bear for Him and for the Manifestation of His
glorious and resplendent Cause.4

Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 159.
The Ba b in Momen, Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne, p. 365.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 6:11.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 154, p. 75.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Prohibition of congregational prayers or rituals
The Prayer for the Dead is the only obligatory prayer1 to be recited in
congregation.  It is to be recited by one believer while all present stand in silence.
Otherwise, the Baya n prohibited congregational prayers or community rituals.
Believers were counselled to attend mosques but to pray individually rather than
in a group led by a religious leader.2  This provision was confirmed by Baha ’u’lla h
in the Kita b-i-Aqdas.3
Abolition of the priesthood
The Ba b also prescribed that the official interpretation of the Word of God, as
an important priesthood prerogative and fundamental element of religious
jurisprudence (ijtiha d), was to be abolished:
Indeed, We have sent down this Book with the truth from God to our servant
and have made all the verses in it clear (muḥkamat), not ambiguous
(mutashábihát).  And none know their interpretation (ta’wíla-há) except
God and whomsoever We desire from among the sincere servants of God.
Therefore, ask the Remembrance their interpretation (ta’wíl).  Indeed, as
decreed in the Book, He has, through the bounty of God, knowledge of all its
verses.4

The priesthood, an ancient religious institution with Biblical roots,5 has been
abolished in the Kita b-i-Aqdas6 as a further development of the above removal
of priestly roles. Likewise, the Ba b forbade the practice of kissing the hands of
clergymen.7
Semen is declared clean
In some religions such as Judaism8 and in most Islamic schools of
jurisprudence, semen was considered ritually impure.  The Ba b stated that semen
is endowed with cleanliness since we are created therewith.9  Baha ’u’lla h in the
Kita b-i-Aqdas confirms:  “God hath decreed, in token of His mercy unto His
creatures, that semen is not unclean.”10
As aforementioned, in Isla m, ritual impurity refers to a state of uncleanliness
that invalidates prayer.  In the Baha ’í  Faith, semen is not deemed impure in

The daily obligatory prayers are to be recited in private.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 9:9, and Persian Baya n 9.9.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 12, p. 23.
The Ba b in Todd Lawson, “The terms ‘Remembrance’ and ‘Gate’”, p. 19.
Genesis 14:18–20.
The Universal House of Justice, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 14.
7  Armin Eschraghi. From Bábí Movement to the Bahá’í Faith, p. 381.
Leviticus 15:16–18, 32; Leviticus 22:4; Deuteronomy 23:10; & Numbers 5:13.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 5:15.
10 Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 74, p. 46.

19.  Abrogation of Jewish, Christian and Islamic laws

essence, and contamination with semen does not invalidate prayer, which is a
great blessing for believers.
Dietary injunctions
The prohibition about eating certain foods varies in each religion.  Neither
Jesus nor Baha ’u’lla h burdened the believers with such restrictions.  Jesus said:
“What goes into someone’s mouth does not defile them, but what comes out of
their mouth, that is what defiles them” (Matthew 15:11).  Baha ’u’lla h allowed the
consumption of any type of food:
Eat ye, O people, of the good things which God hath allowed you, and deprive
not yourselves from His wondrous bounties.1
Baha ’u’lla h explained these differences in terms of the time and environment
where each revelation took place:
… were He to pronounce water itself to be unlawful, it would indeed become
unlawful, and the converse holdeth equally true.  For upon no thing hath it
been inscribed ’this is lawful’ or ‘this is unlawful’; nay rather, whatsoever
hath been or will be revealed is by virtue of the Word of God, exalted be His
glory.2
There are no major dietary prohibitions in the Ba bí  Faith.  In the Arabic
Baya n3 the Ba b allows fish to be eaten after removing the intestines and the
scales, but this was most likely prescribed to counteract some previous religious
prohibitions.  There is no reason to believe the Ba b forbade the consumption of
any meat, such as pork, as the concept of “impure animals” disappeared in the
Ba bí  Faith.  The Baya n does not allow the mistreatment or overloading of animals
and requires them to be treated with kindness, thus giving them specific rights.4
It is noteworthy that in the Arabic Baya n, the Ba b recommends a specific
invocation before killing an animal.5  The Ba b also entreats the chastisement of
God if an animal is mistreated on a journey by its owner.6
What is most evident is the affirmation by the Ba b that, for the believers, all
things have been immersed in the sea of purity except what is abhorrent to
them.7  By abhorrent is meant something disagreeable, that is, “food” that is
physically contaminated, for example, being rotten, having a bad smell or an
unappetizing appearance.  There is no essential impurity but only empirical
cleanliness on earth.  Similarly, Baha ’u’lla h declared in the Kita b-i-Aqdas:

Baha ’u’lla h, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 60.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Tabernacle of Unity, p. 36.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 9:19.
Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 325.  In the Baya n the Ba b forbids cows to be ridden
or used for transportation.  See Ma‘ani & Ewing, Laws of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 180.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 9:18.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 6:16.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 10:5.

Dispensation of the Ba b
God hath, likewise, as a bounty from His presence, abolished the concept of
“uncleanness,” whereby divers things and peoples have been held to be
impure.  He, of a certainty, is the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Generous.  Verily,
all created things were immersed in the sea of purification when, on that first
day of Riḍván ….1
Finally, Shoghi Effendi clarified that “[t]he eating of pork is not forbidden in
the Baha ’í  Teachings.”2
Christian laws
Certain Christian traditions, such as baptism and confession, have been
abrogated or not reaffirmed.  Specifically, the Baya n3 prohibits the confession of
sins to other people:  “Repentance is not permitted except to God in the person of
His Manifestation, when He is manifested; and if not, ask pardon of God secretly with
yourselves.”4  The Kita b-i-Aqdas confirms this new principle with these words:
“To none is it permitted to seek absolution from another soul; let repentance be
between yourselves and God.”5  Also in this regard, Baha ’u’lla h says in the Tablet
of Bisha ra t:
When the sinner findeth himself wholly detached and freed from all save God,
he should beg forgiveness and pardon from Him.  Confession of sins and
transgressions before human beings is not permissible, as it hath never been
nor will ever be conducive to divine forgiveness.  Moreover such confession
before people results in one’s humiliation and abasement, and God—exalted
be His glory—wisheth not the humiliation of His servants.  Verily He is the
Compassionate, the Merciful.6
Islamic laws
The Ba b abrogated several Islamic laws related to the individual and society.
The following sub-sections discuss six of the Bayanic laws that were ratified by
Baha ’u’lla h.
Penalties for adultery
Both the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h forbade and condemned immoral practices such
as adultery.7 The Islamic sentence of death by stoning8—or sentencing

Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 75, p. 47.
Letter written 27 March 1938 on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an individual believer,
quoted in Lights of Guidance, no. 1012.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 7: 14.
The Ba b in Momen, Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne, p. 367.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 34, p. 30.
Baha ’u’lla h, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 24.
Denis MacEoin, The Messiah of Shí ra z, p. 181.
Stoning for adultery was prescribed in the Torah.  There is no mention of capital
punishment by stoning in the Qur’a n.

19.  Abrogation of Jewish, Christian and Islamic laws

perpetrators to death in general—was prohibited in the Baya n.  In the Kita b-i-
Aqdas, Baha ’u’lla h states:
God hath imposed a fine on every adulterer and adulteress, to be paid to the
House of Justice:  nine mithqáls of gold, to be doubled if they should repeat
the offence.  Such is the penalty which He Who is the Lord of Names hath
assigned them in this world; and in the world to come He hath ordained for
them a humiliating torment.  Should anyone be afflicted by a sin, it behoveth
him to repent thereof and return unto his Lord.  He, verily, granteth
forgiveness unto whomsoever He willeth, and none may question that which
it pleaseth Him to ordain.  He is, in truth, the Ever-Forgiving, the Almighty,
the All-Praised.1
The Universal House of Justice clarifies:
Although the term translated here as adultery refers, in its broadest sense,
to unlawful sexual intercourse between either married or unmarried
individuals …, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has specified that the punishment here
prescribed is for sexual intercourse between persons who are unmarried.
He indicates that it remains for the Universal House of Justice to determine
the penalty for adultery committed by a married individual.2
Penalties for murder
Like the Old Testament (Exodus 20:13) and New Testament (Matthew 5:21–22),
the Ba b prohibits murder, including ordering someone else’s murder.  In the
Persian Baya n the Ba b affirms Qur’a n 5:32:  “Whosever kills voluntarily, it is as if
he has killed all men”.  Interestingly, Edward Browne wrote that the Ba b also
forbade “the use of drugs to produce abortion.”3
The Ba b forbade any type of murder and considered it the most heinous sin:
A believer could be excommunicated for even thinking of murdering someone.4
The Arabic Baya n extends this murder injunction to anyone playing any role in
support of a murderer.  The penalty for anyone involved in a murder in any way
is a fine of 11,000 mithqals of gold to be paid to the heirs of the victim.  Murder is
a sin that God does not pardon, even in the afterlife.5
The above prescriptions do not apply to involuntary murder.  In the case of an
accidental fatality, the person responsible must convince the family of the victim
that the death was unintentional.  One should express one’s deep remorse and
ask forgiveness from them and from God.  However, the Kita b-i-Aqdas changed
the injunction in the Arabic Baya n and prescribed the payment of a fine for
involuntary murder:

Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 49, p. 37.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 200.
Edward Granville Browne, “The Ba bí s of Persia”, p. 908.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 4:5.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 11:16.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Should anyone unintentionally take another’s life, it is incumbent upon him
to render to the family of the deceased an indemnity of one hundred mithqáls
of gold.  Observe ye that which hath been enjoined upon you in this Tablet,
and be not of those who overstep its limits.1
Although, as seen earlier, Baha ’u’lla h approved the above prescriptions, death
sentences may be permitted for homicide or arson.  However, commutation of
the death penalty for life imprisonment is an alternative.
Permission to use silk clothes and gold and silver dishes and cups
The Baya n says:  “Silk clothes are lawful under all circumstances.  So also, is the
use of gold and silver”.2  This was not an injunction from the Qur’a n but from
Islamic traditions (hadiths).  This injunction by the Ba b was ratified by
Baha ’u’lla h in The Kita b-i-Aqdas:  “It hath been … permitted you to attire
yourselves in silk”3 and “Whoso wisheth to make use of vessels of silver and gold is
at liberty to do so.”4
Permission to charge interest on loans
Usury, in the form of excessive interest, is condemned in the Qur’a n (2:275–
2:280) and in the Bible (Exodus 22:25–27).  Several Islamic scholars argue that
charging any interest on commercial transactions is morally unacceptable.  The
Ba b categorically declared that purchasing and selling with interest is allowed
provided that both parties are satisfied and there is a time is set to complete the
loan.5
Baha ’u’lla h elaborates in the Kita b-i-Aqdas on charging interest on loans:
Many people stand in need of this.  Because if there were no prospect for
gaining interest, the affairs of men would suffer collapse or dislocation.  One
can seldom find a person who would manifest such consideration towards
his fellow-man, his countryman or towards his own brother and would show
such tender solicitude for him as to be well-disposed to grant him a loan on
benevolent terms.  Therefore as a token of favour towards men We have
prescribed that interest on money should be treated like other business
transactions that are current amongst men.  Thus, now that this lucid
commandment hath descended from the heaven of the Will of God, it is lawful
and proper to charge interest on money, that the people of the world may, in
a spirit of amity and fellowship and with joy and gladness, devotedly engage
themselves in magnifying the Name of Him Who is the Well-Beloved of all
mankind.  Verily He ordaineth according to His Own choosing.  He hath now

Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 188, pp. 87–88.
Moojan Momen, Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne, p. 359.
Baha ’u’lla h, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 159, pp. 76.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 46, p. 36.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 5:18, and Persian Baya n 5:18.

19.  Abrogation of Jewish, Christian and Islamic laws

made interest on money lawful, even as He had made it unlawful in the past.
Within His grasp He holdeth the kingdom of authority.1
Animal hair, sable and bones do not nullify one’s prayers
In Judaism some objects—particularly those pertaining to animal cadavers—
are considered unclean and require ritual ablution by immersion in order to
validate prayer.  The eating of any part of an animal that was not ritually
slaughtered and bled is considered particularly abhorrent.  The first Christians
were Jews, and they continued to observe these Jewish prohibitions.  Although
later non-Jewish converts to Christianity considered that Jesus had abrogated
Judaism’s dietary restrictions, some Christian “reform” or orthodox churches
returned to the Jewish prohibitions against unclean meat, and developed
methods of ablution to remove “ritual impurity”.  Likewise, Shí ‘a Islam
formulated restrictions regarding some animal products.  “This is not a teaching
of the Qur’a n,” Baharieh Rouhani Ma‘ani and Sovaida Ma‘ani Ewing wrote, “but
one that evolved later as a result of the pronouncements of the ‘ulama who
imposed certain restrictions regarding the manners of clothing ….”2  In this
regard, the Ba b wrote that neither animal hair nor their body components
invalidate an individual’s prayers.3
The Kita b-i-Aqdas confirms:
Hair doth not invalidate your prayer, nor aught from which the spirit hath
departed, such as bones and the like.  Ye are free to wear the fur of the sable
as ye would that of the beaver, the squirrel, and other animals; the
prohibition of its use hath stemmed, not from the Qur’án, but from the
misconceptions of the divines.  He, verily, is the All-Glorious, the All-
Knowing.4
Prohibition on amputation of limbs for crimes
The Baya n explicitly forbids the Islamic practice of killing a criminal or even
of amputating a criminal’s limbs for any offence or crime, including theft.5
Instead of amputation for criminals, the Kita b-i-Aqdas instructs the following
for thieves:
Exile and imprisonment are decreed for the thief, and, on the third offense,
place ye a mark upon his brow so that, thus identified, he may not be
accepted in the cities of God and His countries.6

Baha ’u’lla h, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 132.
Ma‘ani & Ewing, Laws of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 41.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 9:12.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 9, p. 22.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 11:16.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 45, pp. 35–36.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Theft offenses are penalized with nineteen months of prohibition of marital
relationships.1  It is noteworthy that the specification of the levels of penalties for
such crimes as adultery, sodomy and theft will be decided in future by the
Universal House of Justice.2
Prohibition of reciting the names of God in public
Dhikr (  ذِكر, “recollection, remembrance, commemoration, praising or
glorification of God”) is the Islamic practice of reciting and repeating daily the
names and attributes of God.  This practice was changed in the Baya n.  Instead of
being spoken aloud and in public, privacy is enjoined in its observance.3  The
Islamic practice was misused to feign devoutness.  A. L. M. Nicolas commented:
The Báb wants to prevent the abuses that everyone witnesses in the
streets of Tehran:  the ostentation of piety.  It is thus that a mullá [Muslim
priest] that one meets constantly moves his lips to make [us] believe that
he is busy glorifying God.4
Baha ’u’lla h reiterated this Bayanic principle in the Kita b-i-Aqdas:
To none is it permitted to mutter sacred verses before the public gaze as he
walketh in the street or marketplace.5
Baha ’u’lla h does not prescribe a specific number of verses.  However, He
provides the following guidance about the obligation of reading the divine verses
twice a day:
Pride not yourselves on much reading of the verses or on a multitude of pious
acts by night and day; for were a man to read a single verse with joy and
radiance it would be better for him than to read with lassitude all the Holy
Books of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.  Read ye the sacred verses
in such measure that ye be not overcome by languor and despondency.  Lay
not upon your souls that which will weary them and weigh them down, but
rather what will lighten and uplift them, so that they may soar on the wings
of the Divine verses towards the Dawning-place of His manifest signs; this
will draw you nearer to God, did ye but comprehend.6
Prohibition on marrying one’s divorced wife
The Islamic proscription of marrying one’s divorced wife is another law
abrogated in the Baya n.7  According to the Qur’a n:  “… if he has divorced her (the
third time), then she is not lawful unto him thereafter until she has married
another husband” (Qur’a n 2:230).

The Ba b, Persian Baya n 16:6.
The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Questions and Answers 49, p. 121.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 9:4.
A. L. M. Nicolas, Le Béyan Persan, fn. 1, p. 150.  (Author’s translation)
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 135, p. 225.
Baha ’u’lla h.  The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 68, p. 44.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 6:12.

19.  Abrogation of Jewish, Christian and Islamic laws

Baha ’u’lla h ratified the abrogation by the Ba b of this Islamic injunction in the
Kita b-i-Aqdas:
The Lord hath prohibited, in a Tablet inscribed by the Pen of His command,
the practice to which ye formerly had recourse when thrice ye had divorced
a woman.  This He hath done as a favor on His part, that ye may be accounted
among the thankful.  He who hath divorced his wife may choose, upon the
passing of each month, to remarry her when there is mutual affection and
consent, so long as she hath not taken another husband.  Should she have
wed again, then, by this other union, the separation is confirmed and the
matter is concluded unless, clearly, her circumstances change.1
Music
Various schools of Islamic thought forbade the use of musical instruments and
singing although there is no explicit prohibition in the Qur’a n.  In the Baya n,
music is only allowed on Naw-Ru z (New Year’s Day), which is the day of Him
Whom God shall make Manifest and when “permission is given at that time to use
all musical instruments and luxuries which at other times are not permitted.”2
The following is Nader Saiedi’s comment on the Risálah Fi’l-Ghiná’ (Treatise on
Singing) by the Ba b:
Instead of offering a traditional discussion of the Islamic law related to
singing and music, however, the Báb defines the philosophical conditions
of moral or immoral action by discussing the dual station of the human
being as possessing both an aspect of divine revelation (existence) and an
aspect of specific determination (essence).  Like every other human action,
singing becomes moral or immoral depending on the intention of the actor
and the function of the act.3
In the Kita b-i-Aqdas, Baha ’u’lla h altered the restrictions of the Ba b and
allowed the use of music subject to the exercise of propriety and decorum:
We have made it lawful for you to listen to music and singing.  Take heed,
however, lest listening thereto should cause you to overstep the bounds of
propriety and dignity.  Let your joy be the joy born of My Most Great Name,
a Name that bringeth rapture to the heart, and filleth with ecstasy the minds
of all who have drawn nigh unto God.  We, verily, have made music as a
ladder for your souls, a means whereby they may be lifted up unto the realm
on high; make it not, therefore, as wings to self and passion.  Truly, We are
loath to see you numbered with the foolish.4


Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 68, p. 43.
Moojan Momen, Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne, p. 361.
Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, pp. 34–35.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 51, p. 38.

Dispensation of the Ba b
The Ba b brought a fresh set of laws and, in that process, religious regulations
had to be rewritten according to the exigencies of the New Day of God.  Three
Abrahamic religions, Judaism, Christianity and Islam, were particularly affected
by the Ba bí  Faith.  To the priests and ministers of those religions, the Ba b asserted
in the Qayyu mu’l-Asma ’:  “Follow ye the Book which His Remembrance hath
revealed in praise of God, the True One”1 meaning the time has come for a new
revelation and new laws.


The Ba b, Selections, p. 44.



Image Section 4











































Figure 50: Relics of the
Báb (beads)
Figure 51: Relics of the Báb—the
Qur’án
Figure 52: A ring belonging
to the Báb
Figure 53: The Báb’s brazier and
samovar

Dispensation of the Ba b















































Figure 54: Some Relics of
the Báb (1)
Figure 55: Some Relics of the Báb (2)
Figure 56: Some relics of the Báb (3)
Figure 57: Cap worn by the Báb

22.  Some Ba bí  ordinances not discussed in the Kita b-i-Aqdas
















































Figure 58: A signet ring of the Báb
Figure 59: The Marriage
Certificate of the Báb
Figure 60: A crystal Persian
tea glass and china saucer
with rose luster flowers
belonging to the Báb
Figure 61 A small wool money
purse which belonged to the
Báb
Figure 62: Pocket Qur’án of the
Báb

Dispensation of the Ba b















































Figure 63: Shrine of the Báb in Mount Carmel



Bábí laws abrogated by Bahá’u’lláh
Baha ’u’lla h had full authority to change the laws of the Ba b given their
transitory character.  “The Bayán deriveth all its glory from Him Whom God shall
make Manifest,” the Ba b stated1 and that the “whole of the Bayán is only a leaf
amongst the leaves of His Paradise.”2
This chapter discusses those Ba bí  Laws abrogated by Baha ’u’lla h in the Kita b-
i-Aqdas or in His other books and epistles.  “Throughout the Bayán,” ‘Abdu’l-Baha
stated, “He [the Ba b] openly and unambiguously declared that the object of all the
Scriptures and sacred Books was none other than the Most Great Light.”3
Baha ’u’lla h abrogated several other Ba bí  laws.  This section discusses ten of
such injunctions as outlined below:
•
Death penalty
•
Payment of a fine for causing sadness
•
Travel restrictions
•
Destruction of books
•
Shaving of heads
•
Waging of holy war abolished
•
Abolition of the prohibition on reading certain books
•
Abolishing religious shrines
•
Prostrations for obligatory prayer
•
Laws regarding Him Whom God shall make Manifest
Death penalty
According to Qur’a n 5:33–34, the penalty for those who waged war against
Isla m and devastated the land was death, amputations or banishment.  Those
enemies who repented before they were caught were to be forgiven.  However,
under Shariah Law, the death penalty is prescribed for apostasy and adultery,
neither of which appear in the Qur’a n.  The Bible (Leviticus 20:10) also prescribes
the death penalty for adultery.
The Ba b prohibited the issuing of the death penalty,4 particularly on religious
grounds, when the injunction was used as a justification for killing infidels by
Islamic religious authorities:5

The Ba b in Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 30.
The Ba b in Baha ’u’lla h, Epistle to the Son of the Wolf, p. 158.
‘Abdu’l-Baha , Light of the World, p. 18.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 11:16.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 4:5.

Dispensation of the Ba b
No one is to be slain for unbelief, for the slaying of a soul is outside the
religion of God … and if anyone commands it, he is not and has not been of
the Bayán, and no sin can be greater for him than this.1
In case there should arise differences in questions of the [religious] sciences,
God has not given permission for anyone in the Bayán to issue a death
warrant (fatwá-yi qatl) against anyone, at any time, under any
circumstances and under any condition.  Moreover, it is God who judges and
commands.  How does it behove you, O wayward people, to issue a death
warrant against anyone?2
In the Kita b-i-Aqdas the death penalty applies only to those individuals who
“intentionally destroy a house by fire”3 and for those who “deliberately take
another’s life.”4  However, Baha ’u’lla h affirms that:  “Should ye condemn the
arsonist and the murderer to life imprisonment, it would be permissible according
to the provisions of the Book.”5  The Universal House of Justice clarifies that
The details of the Bahá’í law of punishment for murder and arson, a law
designed for a future state of society, were not specified by Bahá’u’lláh.
The various details of the law, such as degrees of offense, whether
extenuating circumstances are to be considered, and which of the two
prescribed punishments is to be the norm are left to the Universal House
of Justice to decide considering prevailing conditions when the law is to be
in operation.  The way the punishment is to be carried out is also left to the
Universal House of Justice to decide.6
Payment of a fine for causing sadness
There are penalties in the Persian Baya n for causing sadness:  “… he who
knowingly causeth grief to any soul must pay a fine of nineteen mithqáls of gold,
should it be in his power to do so.”7  This injunction was changed in The Kitáb-i-
Aqdas:
A fine of nineteen mithqáls of gold had formerly been prescribed by Him Who
is the Lord of all mankind for anyone who was the cause of sadness to
another; in this Dispensation, however, He hath absolved you thereof and
exhorteth you to show forth righteousness and piety.  Such is the
commandment which He hath enjoined upon you in this resplendent Tablet.
Wish not for others what ye wish not for yourselves ….8

The Ba b, “The Baya n”.  See Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, Oct. 1889, art. 12, pp. 927–
8; also cited in The Dawn-Breakers, p. 330.
Armin Eschraghi, “Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy”, p. 237.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 62, p. 41.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 62, p. 41.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 62, p. 41.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pp. 204–205.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 322.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 148, p. 73.  Author’s emphasis.

20.  Ba bí  laws abrogated by Baha ’u’lla h

Travel restrictions
Regarding travel, the Baya n prescribes, “It is not lawful to anyone to travel
unless he means to go to the House of God or the house of the Nuqṭa [The Point, e.g.,
the Ba b].”1  This restriction was valid till the appearance of Him Whom God shall
make Manifest when the believers would be ready to attain His presence.  In the
Kita b-i-Aqdas Baha ’u’lla h wrote:  “God hath removed the restrictions on travel that
had been imposed in the Bayán.”2
Destruction of books
Regarding the destruction of books, the Ba b wrote in the Baya n:
Concerning the renewal of all books after 202 years have passed over them;
and the destruction of what was written before, or its bestowal on someone.
God wishes all things to become new in this Manifestation; therefore every
202 years everyone must renew his books, either cast them into fresh water,
or give them to some one.3
This command is abrogated in the Kita b-i-Aqdas:
God hath relieved you of the ordinance laid down in the Bayán concerning
the destruction of books.  We have permitted you to read such sciences as are
profitable unto you, not such as end in idle disputation; better is this for you,
if ye be of them that comprehend.4
Ruhollah Mehrabkhani explains that those disciplines that Baha ’u’lla h refers
to are sciences that “begin with words and end with words”5 rather than those that
“can profit the peoples of the earth”.6  According to Ruhollah Mehrabkhani:
The subjects of their [Islamic theologians] study were mostly superstitious
and pointless arguments.  They held endless discussions on the proper
way to wash the different parts of the body before prayer; on the various
acts and objects that might nullify one’s prayers, and so on.  Heated
debates might arise over such questions as whether the urine of the holy
Imam was ritually clean, or whether the Prophet Mohammad had a
shadow.  Could He be in 40 places at the same time?  Could the Imam travel
long distances in the twinkling of an eye?  Such subjects kept them
occupied for months, or even years.7

The Ba b in Momen, Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne, p. 362.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 131, p. 66.
The Ba b in Momen, Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne, p. 365.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 77, p. 48.
Baha ’u’lla h, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 52.
Baha ’u’lla h, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed, p. 52.
Ruhu’llah Mehrabkhani, Mulla Husayn, pp. 5–6.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Shaving of heads
The Baya n gives “Permission to shave the hair on the head and remove the hair
of the face ….1  In the Kita b-i-Aqdas it is written:
Shave not your heads; God hath adorned them with hair, and in this there
are signs from the Lord of creation to those who reflect upon the
requirements of nature.  He, verily, is the God of strength and wisdom.
Notwithstanding, it is not seemly to let the hair pass beyond the limit of the
ears.  Thus hath it been decreed by Him Who is the Lord of all worlds.2
By contrast, there is a Quranic injunction instructing men to shave their head
during the pilgrimage to Mecca (Qur’a n, 2:217) and some Hindu religious schools
encourage the practice.
Waging of holy war
The principle of waging holy war is established in several books of the Old
Testament (for example, Deuteronomy 20 specifies some regulations), as well as
in the Qur’a n.  In the latter, holy war could be waged for defence purposes only
(2:90).  Despite the religious wars waged during the Christian dispensation, holy
war was not prescribed by Jesus.  When Jesus said “Think not that I am come to
send peace on earth:  I came not to send peace, but a sword” (Matthew 10:34), this
was not a call to war.  Rather, it can be interpreted to mean that belief in Him
severs the righteous from the unrighteous, and thus His teachings are like a
sword.
The Ba b neither abrogated holy war nor did He command its use.  In some of
His Writings3 the Ba b appears to allow the waging of holy war against
unbelievers.  This was an injunction that was impossible to fulfil for several
reasons as, according to the Ba b, “this law is confined to the sovereign Bábí kings
and does not apply to everyone.”4  Additionally, the decisions of Ba bí  kings were
subject to the Ba b’s approval Who, in fact, never gave permission to anyone to
use any type of violence.5  The Ba b discouraged the use of force, prohibited the
use of weapons and prescribed fines for saddening another person.  The Persian
Baya n also says that conquering new lands for His Faith should be done without
causing any sorrow6 and that “not a single hair on anybody’s head would be
harmed.”7
As Nader Saiedi points out, the Ba b placed an additional restriction by leaving
such a decision to the exaltation of His Cause, which meant the appearance of Him
Whom God shall make Manifest.  According to Nader Saiedi:

The Ba b in Momen, Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne, p. 372.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 44, p. 35.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 5:5.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 363.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 6:16.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 4:5.
The Ba b in Armin Eschraghi, “Promised One”.

20.  Ba bí  laws abrogated by Baha ’u’lla h

The exaltation of the Promised One [Bahá’u’lláh] will precede the
exaltation of His own Cause.  In other words, the exaltation of the Cause of
the Báb means the Revelation of the Promised One.  Putting this law into
effect is thus deferred until the advent of Him Whom God shall make
Manifest.  Yet after His advent, the laws of the Bayán would no longer be
binding, unless the Promised One chose to confirm them, and in this case
He did not.  The conditions set by the Báb make it clear that He made His
law of the sword impossible to carry out.1
Hence, the Ba b implies that the sovereignty of the Qá’im is spiritual rather
than temporal or military.2  This is the explanation given by Baha ’u’lla h:
Nay, by sovereignty is meant that sovereignty which in every dispensation
resideth within, and is exercised by, the person of the Manifestation, the
Daystar of Truth.  That sovereignty is the spiritual ascendancy which He
exerciseth to the fullest degree over all that is in heaven and on earth, and
which in due time revealeth itself to the world in direct proportion to its
capacity and spiritual receptiveness ….3
Further, Siyamak Zabihi-Moghaddam observes:
References to Bábí kings in the Persian Bayán seem to anticipate the
appearance of some form of a Bábí state (or states).  The laws of the Bayán
regarding holy war, however, are given as instructions to Bábí kings,
implying that a Bábí king must be in power before offensive jihad can be
carried out.  There are no provisions here for rank-and-file Bábís to declare
offensive jihad without a Bábí king.  Neither are there provisions for the
Bábís to wage a jihad in order to put a Bábí king into power.4
Baha ’u’lla h totally abrogated the use of the sword as a religious injunction.  At
the public declaration of His Mission in the Garden of Rid va n in 1863, His first
command was “… in this Revelation the use of sword is prohibited”5 and in the
Tablet of Bisha ra t He also stated that “the law of holy war hath been blotted out
from the Book.”6
In general, the Ba b’s position on the matter of holy war is overruled by His
more frequent statements on “love and compassion” rather than “force and
coercion” to guide people unto His Faith,7 the prohibition to engage in religious
controversies,8 the statement that slaying a soul for unbelief is considered the

Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 364.
Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 87.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Íqán, pp. 107–108.
Zabihi-Moghaddam, “The Babi-state conflict at Shaykh Tabarsi”, p. 101.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Logos and Civilization, p. 242.
Baha ’u’lla h, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 21.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 77.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 134.

Dispensation of the Ba b
greatest of all sins,1 and the assertion that conversion is only possible through
“evidence and proof, and testimony, and certitude.”2
Prohibition against “reading certain books”
The Persian Baya n prescribes that Ba bí s should not teach, write or read books
other than the Baya n unless they are somehow related to “scholastic philosophy.”3
Books associated with religious logic, jurisprudence and philosophy, as well as
dead languages, were not allowed.  Further, the study of Arabic grammar and
syntax are permitted only if the reader is learning to read the Baya n.  This
injunction was valid until the appearance of Him Whom God shall make Manifest.
Believers should only own up to 19 books—the first must be the Baya n and
the other eighteen must be related to it.  Any excess is punishable with a fine.4  In
this regard, the Baya n indicates that in the days of Him Whom God shall make
Manifest nothing should be written except His words.5
These radical injunctions were aimed in part at discouraging reading about
anachronistic Islamic sciences that, upon the appearance of the Revelation of the
Ba b, had become obsolete.  The Ba b refers to the futility of engaging in useless
disciplines that are mostly based on obscure Islamic interpretations.  He
encourages alignment with the teachings of the Baya n.6
In the Tablet of Bisha ra t (“Glad-Tidings”), Baha ’u’lla h wrote that “In former
religions such ordinances … as the destruction of books, the ban on association and
companionship with other peoples or on reading certain books had been laid down
and affirmed according to the exigencies of the time”7.  The annulment by
Baha ’u’lla h of laws concerning the burning of books also implies the abrogation
of the Baya n’s prohibition against reading certain books.  More specifically,
Baha ’u’lla h stated:
The unbelievers and the faithless have set their minds on four things: first,
the shedding of blood; second, the burning of books; third, the shunning of
the followers of other religions; fourth, the extermination of other
communities and groups.  Now however, through the strengthening grace
and potency of the Word of God these four barriers have been demolished,
these clear injunctions have been obliterated from the Tablet and brutal
dispositions have been transmuted into spiritual attributes.8

The Ba b, The Baya n.  cf. Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, Oct. 1889, art.12, pp. 927–8;
also cited in The Dawn-Breakers, p. 330.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 368.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 4:10.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 11:7.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 7.1.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 4:10.
Baha ’u’lla h, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 28.
Tablets of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 91

20.  Ba bí  laws abrogated by Baha ’u’lla h

Religious shrines
Another example of Ba bí  laws preparing for the advent of Him Whom Him God
shall make manifest is the ordinance by the Ba b to abolish the practice of
pilgrimage to “tombs of prophets and patriarchs” so that people would not be
veiled from the new revelation because of their attachments to the past.  Instead,
new shrines were to be built in their place.1
The Ba b explains that Jews visit Jerusalem, while the Muslims go to Mecca to
see the Ka‘bah with the Shí ‘a believers also making their pilgrimage to the shrines
of the Imams—direct descendants of Muh ammad—in Iraq.  In turn, Christians
visit their own holy places located in various parts of the world.  In a passage of
the Persian Baya n, the Ba b laments His isolation in the mountain of Ma h-Ku  while
the faithful of other religions are oblivious of Him and spend their time
worshipping in shrines and other places on pilgrimages:
In this day no less than seventy thousand people make pilgrimage every year
to the Holy House of God in compliance with the bidding of the Apostle of
God; while He Himself Who ordained this ordinance took refuge for seven
years in the mountains of Mecca.  And this notwithstanding that the One Who
enjoined this commandment is far greater than the commandment itself.
Hence all this people who at this time go on pilgrimage do not do so with true
understanding, otherwise in this Day of His Return which is mightier than
His former Dispensation, they would have followed His commandment.  But
now behold what hath happened.  People who profess belief in His former
religion, who in the daytime and in the night season bow down in worship in
His Name, have assigned Him to a dwelling place in a mountain, while each
one of them would regard attaining recognition of Him as an honor.2
Writing about the proper use of places of worship, Baha ’u’lla h stated in the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas that any holy place should be used purely for the worship of God:
Whatever hath been constructed for the worship of the one true God, such as
mosques, chapels and temples, must not be used for any purpose other than
the commemoration of His Name.  This is an ordinance of God, and he who
violateth it is verily of those who have transgressed.  No harm attacheth to
the builder, for he hath performed his deed for the sake of God, and hath
received and will continue to receive his just reward.3
Prostrations for obligatory prayer
Another example of a Bayanic law, whose purpose was solely to abrogate a
Shí ‘a ordinance, was the exhortation of the Ba b that His followers should
prostrate during obligatory prayers on a crystal box containing the dust of the

The Ba b, Persian Baya n 4:12.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 93.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Questions and Answers 4, pp. 134–135.

Dispensation of the Ba b
first and the last Ba bí  believer.1  This ordinance was abrogating the Shí ‘a practice
of prostrating upon a small box with dust from the holy shrine of Ima m H usayn
in Karbila , Iraq.  There is an element of provocation and a challenge to the
ecclesiastical establishment embedded in this law.2  However, Baha ’u’lla h
repealed this command in the Kita b-i-Aqdas:
God hath granted you leave to prostrate yourselves on any surface that is
clean, for We have removed in this regard the limitation that had been laid
down in the Book; God, indeed, hath knowledge of that whereof ye know
naught.3
Laws regarding Him Whom God shall make Manifest
There are two provisions in the Baya n regarding Him Whom God shall make
Manifest that Baha ’u’lla h abrogated in the Kita b-i-Aqdas about twenty-five years
later.  The first is the Ba b’s prohibition on asking questions of Him Whom God
shall make Manifest and the second is the exhortation to offer priceless gifts to
Him.
Prohibition of asking questions of Him Whom God shall make Manifest
It is not permissible to ask questions from Him Whom God will make
manifest, except that which well beseemeth Him.  For His station is that of
the Essence of divine Revelation ….  Whatever evidence of bounty is witnessed
in the world, is but an image of His bounty; and every thing owes its existence
to His Being ….  Should anyone desire to ask questions, he is allowed to do so
only in writing, that he may derive ample understanding from His written
reply and that it may serve as a sign from his Beloved.  However, let no one
ask aught that may prove unworthy of His lofty station.  For instance, were
a person to inquire the price of straw from a merchant of rubies, how
ignorant would he be and how unacceptable.  Similarly unacceptable would
be the questions of the highest-ranking people of the world in His presence,
except such words as He Himself would utter about Himself in the Day of His
manifestation.4
The Ba b explains the wisdom of this injunction:
Methinks I visualize those who would, prompted by their own deluded
conceptions, write to Him and ask Him questions about that which hath been
revealed in the Bayán, and He would answer them with words not of His Own,
but divinely inspired, saying:  “Verily, verily, I am God; no God is there but Me.
I have called into being all the created things, I have raised up divine
Messengers in the past and have sent down Books unto Them.  Take heed not
to worship anyone but God, He Who is My Lord and your Lord.  This indeed
is the undoubted truth.  However, alike shall it be to Me; if ye believe in Me,

The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 10:8.
Moojan Momen, “The Trial of Mulla  ‘Ala  Bast a mí ”, pp. 113–143.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 10, p. 23.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 101.

20.  Ba bí  laws abrogated by Baha ’u’lla h

ye will provide good for your own souls, and if ye believe not in Me, nor in
that which God hath revealed unto Me, ye will suffer yourselves to be shut
out as by a veil.  For verily I have been independent of you heretofore, and
shall remain independent hereafter.  Therefore it behooveth you, O creatures
of God, to help your own selves and to believe in the Verses revealed by Me
….”1
However, Baha ’u’lla h annulled the injunction in the Kita b-i-Aqdas:
In the Bayán it had been forbidden you to ask Us questions.  The Lord hath
now relieved you of this prohibition, that ye may be free to ask what you need
to ask, but not such idle questions as those on which the men of former times
were wont to dwell.  Fear God, and be ye of the righteous!  Ask ye that which
shall be of profit to you in the Cause of God and His dominion, for the portals
of His tender compassion have been opened before all who dwell in heaven
and on earth.2
Exhortation to offer priceless gifts to Him Whom God shall make Manifest
The ordinance to offer gifts to Him Whom God shall make Manifest was
rescinded in the Kita b-i-Aqdas.  The Baya n stipulated that:
If there be anything which is peerless of its kind, none shall possess it but the
Nuqṭa-i-Bayán.  But, if the Sun hath set, then let them keep it for its rising-
place [He Whom God shall make manifest]3
Also, for those who are able, He Whom God shall make manifest and the Letters
of the Living4 on the day of His manifestation should be presented with three
diamonds, four yellow amethysts, six emeralds, and six rubies.5  Baha ’u’lla h
changed those provisions in the Kita b-i-Aqdas:
God had formerly laid upon each one of the believers the duty of offering
before Our throne priceless gifts from among his possessions.  Now, in token
of Our gracious favour, We have absolved them of this obligation.6

The Ba b abolished many precepts of Islam and proclaimed new laws in
overthrowing the decadent old order.  In His book of Laws, the Persian Baya n
(Exposition), revealed in the Ma h-Ku  fortress, the Ba b annulled many ordinances
established in the Qur’a n and the Sharí ‘a, and substituted them with fresh
ordinances.  Some of these ordinances referred to Him Whom God shall make
Manifest.

The Ba b, Selections, pp. 101–2.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 126, p. 64.
The Ba b in Momen, Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne, pp. 348–349.
The “Letters of the Living” were the first 18 believers in the Ba b.  See Dawn-Breakers,
pp. 80–82.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 8:5.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 114, p. 60.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Following the same principle of religious renewal, Ba bí  laws were abolished,
modified or confirmed by Baha ’u’lla h in the Kita b-i-Aqdas.  ‘Abdu’l-Baha  wrote
that “The Book to which the Bahá’ís turn is the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, not the Bayán”.1
As discussed earlier, the laws of the Persian Baya n were not permanent but
were in force for a short time until “He Whom God would make manifest” would
appear.
The next chapter will explore the laws of the Ba b that were modified and/or
confirmed by Baha ’u’lla h in the Kita b-i-Aqdas.

‘Abdu’l-Baha , Additional Tablets, p. 5.



Bábí laws modified and/or confirmed by Bahá’u’lláh
There was a group of Ba bí  laws that entered the Baha ’í  Faith with no or only
some modification.  However, ‘Abdu’l-Baha  remarked that “The Bayán hath been
superseded by the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, except in respect of such laws as have been
confirmed and mentioned in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.”1
Previously in Part III some ordinances have been discussed such as,
prohibition from begging, changing furniture every 19 years, writing a will,
monitoring one’s actions, and others.  Many of these laws had an Islamic
background such as ordinances related to marriage, divorce, prayer, tithes and
alms, fasting, inheritance and several other personal observances and
prohibitions.  This chapter presents some of those injunctions that were
enunciated in the Baya n and later confirmed or amended by Baha ’u’lla h:
•
Major spiritual laws
•
Laws of personal status
•
Other individual ordinances
Major spiritual laws
As explored below, these fundamental laws are: obligatory prayer and fasting
as well as reciting “Alláh-u-Abhá” ninety-five times a day:
Obligatory prayer
Provisions pertaining to obligatory prayers include guidelines for how to
conduct the prayers as well as how to replace a missed obligatory prayer.  The
Ba b prescribed the observance of obligatory prayer, saying that those reciting
the prayer should turn towards Him Whom God shall make Manifest.  In the Baya n,
the obligatory prayer period starts at noon.  The total number of rak‘ah2 sets
required in Islam was changed to 19 in the Baya n.
In the first three rak‘át, the believer focuses on the unity of the divine essence.
In the following four sets, the worshipper declares the unity of the divine
attributes, while in the next six sets, the emphasis is on the unity of God’s acts.
The final six sets are about the unity of His worship.  The Ba b affirms that in all
these steps the believer should only see God as the Unique One.3  In a way, these
nineteen steps resemble a journey of spiritual discovery.  However, the Ba b does
not indicate as to what should be recited during these prostrations, leaving the
presumption that each believer is free to pray according to their inspiration

‘Abdu'l-Baha , Additional Tablets extracts and Talks, 2019, p. 5.
Each rak‘ah (ركعة plural - ركعات  rak‘át) consists of a set of prescribed movements and
supplications performed by Muslims as part of the prescribed obligatory prayer
known as S ala h (صَالة).
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 7:19.

Dispensation of the Ba b
based on the nineteen stages and wait until the appearance of Him Whom God
shall make Manifest for guidance on which direction to turn.
Baha ’u’lla h initially developed an obligatory prayer involving nine ra’kát.
However, this was subsequently abrogated and replaced by the aforementioned
currently binding choice of three obligatory prayers distinguished from each
other by their duration, frequency and use of ablutions.  These prayers are to be
recited facing the Shrine of Baha ’u’lla h in ‘Akka , Israel, a point that is called the
Qibla (“Point of Adoration”).
The Baya n prescribes a verse that should be said eighteen times in the event
that the obligatory prayer cannot be recited while travelling.1  In the Kita b-i-
Aqdas, Baha ’u’lla h changed this verse for unsaid obligatory prayers:
When travelling, if ye should stop and rest in some safe spot, perform ye—
men and women alike—a single prostration in place of each unsaid
Obligatory Prayer, and while prostrating say “Glorified be God, the Lord of
Might and Majesty, of Grace and Bounty”.  Whoso is unable to do this, let him
say only “Glorified be God”; this shall assuredly suffice him.  He is, of a truth,
the all-sufficing, the ever-abiding, the forgiving, compassionate God.  Upon
completing your prostrations, seat yourselves cross-legged—men and
women alike—and eighteen times repeat “Glorified be God, the Lord of the
kingdoms of earth and heaven”.  Thus doth the Lord make plain the ways of
truth and guidance, ways that lead to one way, which is this Straight Path.
Render thanks unto God for this most gracious favour; offer praise unto Him
for this bounty that hath encompassed the heavens and the earth; extol Him
for this mercy that hath pervaded all creation.2
Likewise, the Baya n exempts women in their courses from performing the
obligatory prayer if they recite a specific verse 95 times a day.3  Such an
exemption is ratified in the Kita b-i-Aqdas and the verse “Glorified be God, the Lord
of Splendours and Beauty” is prescribed.4
Fasting
The Ba b taught that fasting should be observed during the month of ‘Ala ’
(Loftiness), which is the last month of the Badí ‘ calendar, followed immediately
by Naw-Ru z (New Year’s Day).  Fasting was only prescribed for believers
between 11 and 42 years of age.  Beyond those ages, fasting was not acceptable.
Fasting was to involve abstention from drinking, eating, sexual intercourse, and
disputes even if these are of a scientific nature.  The Ba b is said to have fasted
most of His life.5

The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 8:10.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 14, p. 24.
Ma‘ani & Ewing, Laws of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 35.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 13, pp. 23–24.
Ma‘ani & Ewing, Laws of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 61.

21.  Ba bí  laws modified and/or confirmed by Baha ’u’lla h

In the Kita b-i-Aqdas, Baha ’u’lla h reaffirms the law of fasting during the month
of ‘Ala ’ and makes it compulsory between 15 and 70 years of age:
O Pen of the Most High!  Say:  O people of the world!  We have enjoined upon
you fasting during a brief period, and at its close have designated for you
Naw-Rúz as a feast.  Thus hath the Day-Star of Utterance shone forth above
the horizon of the Book as decreed by Him Who is the Lord of the beginning
and the end.  Let the days in excess of the months be placed before the month
of fasting.  We have ordained that these, amid all nights and days, shall be
the manifestations of the letter Há,1 and thus they have not been bounded by
the limits of the year and its months.  It behoveth the people of Bahá,
throughout these days, to provide good cheer for themselves, their kindred
and, beyond them, the poor and needy, and with joy and exultation to hail
and glorify their Lord, to sing His praise and magnify His Name; and when
they end—these days of giving that precede the season of restraint—let
them enter upon the Fast.  Thus hath it been ordained by Him Who is the
Lord of all mankind.  The traveller, the ailing, those who are with child or
giving suck, are not bound by the Fast; they have been exempted by God as a
token of His grace.  He, verily, is the Almighty, the Most Generous.2
Repeating Alláh-u-Abhá 95 times every day
In the Kita b-i-Aqdas Baha ’u’lla h wrote about reciting the Most Great Name
(Alláh-u-Abhá,3 “God is the Most Glorious”):
It hath been ordained that every believer in God, the Lord of Judgement, shall,
each day, having washed his hands and then his face, seat himself and,
turning unto God, repeat “Alláh’u’Abhá” ninety-five times.4
This prescription had its roots in the Baya n5 in which Ba bí s were required to
recite a name of God daily 95 times.  This was a form of dhikr (  ذِكر, “recollection,
remembrance”), meaning praise of God through the mention of His names.  In the
Baya n, this was a complex practice performed in cycles of 19 days, starting with
Alláhu Abhá (“God is Most Glorious”) and followed by a range of other names
including Alláhu ‘A‘ẓam (“God is Most Mighty”), Alláhu Aẓhar (“God is Most
Manifest”), Alláhu Anwar (“God is Most Luminous”), Alláhu Akbar (“God is Most
Great”), and concluding with Alláhu Aqdam (“God is the Pre-Existent”).

Baha ’í s celebrate Ayyám-i-Há (that is, days for hospitality) in the intercalary days prior
to the Fast.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 16, pp. 24–25.
“Alláh-u-Abhá” should in fact be Romanised as “Alláhu Abhá”.  However, in the Baha ’í
Faith, Arabic words, names, and phrases are often spelled as though they were Persian;
for example, Kita b-i-Aqdas instead of Kita bu'l-Aqdas.  Shoghi Effendi spoke Persian
with an Is faha ní  accent learned from his grandmother Muní rih Kha num.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 18, p. 26.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 5:17.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Baha ’u’lla h simplified the practice, requiring the 95-fold repetition of only the one
invocation of “Alláh’u’Abhá”.
Laws of personal status
Personal status laws provide guidelines regarding marriage, divorce and
inheritance.
Marriage (dowry)
Marriage guidelines cover the marriage ceremony and dowries.  In the Baya n
it is written:  “It is obligatory on each one to take a wife,1 that a soul may remain
after him to [testify to the unity of] God, its Lord ….”2  Hence, the Islamic law
limitation of four wives is reduced to one.3
At the ceremony, the bride and groom must recite a sentence indicating their
contentment with the will of God and to place their seals on a nuptial document.
Witnesses are required whom both parties naturally must agree upon.  The
sentence from the Persian Baya n4 is cited below.
Verily I abide by the will of God [I am for God], the Lord of the heavens, the
Lord of the earth, the Lord of all things, the Lord of that which is visible and
that which is unseen, the Lord of all the worlds.5

The sentence specified in the Arabic Baya n has been replaced by words
specified by Baha ’u’lla h, “We will all, verily, abide by the Will of God” for men and
“We will all, verily, abide by the Will of God” for women.67
The Ba b also wrote that the purpose of the couple’s wedding vows is “that
haply in the Day of the Revelation of Him Whom God shall make Manifest they will
not deviate from the supreme Mirror of these words, the One Who testifieth unto
God.”8

The Universal House of Justice advised that:  “It is apparent from the Guardian’s
writings that where Baha ’u’lla h has expressed a law as between a man and a woman it
applies, mutatis mutandis, between a woman and a man unless the context should
make it impossible ….”  (Letter dated 24 April 1974 to an individual believer.  A
Compilation on Women, p. 14.)
The Ba b in Momen, Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne, p. 373.  Present author’s
emphasis.
Peter Smith, The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, p. 34.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 6:7.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 313.
6  Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Q&A 3, p. 1o2.
7  In the Kita b-i-Aqdas the two verses are different because Arabic is gender specific.
Shoghi Effendi instructed that the sentence in English should be read as “We will all,
verily, abide by the will of God” by both genders.
The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 313.

21.  Ba bí  laws modified and/or confirmed by Baha ’u’lla h

In the Kita b-i-Aqdas marriage is recommended as “fortress for well-being”1
although it is not compulsory.  According to Shoghi Effendi
… Of course, under normal circumstances, every person should consider it
his moral duty to marry.  And this is what Bahá’u’lláh has encouraged the
believers to do.  But marriage is by no means an obligation.  In the last
resort it is for the individual to decide whether he wishes to lead a family
life or live in a state of celibacy.2
In addition, as aforementioned, the Ba b indicates that Ba bí s can only marry
Ba bí s but postpones the time that the restriction takes effect to the time when
Him Whom God shall make Manifest appears.  In the Baya n we find:
It is unlawful to enter into marriage save with a believer in the Bayán.
Should only one party to a marriage embrace this Cause, his or her
possessions will become unlawful to the other, until such time as the latter
hath converted.  This law, however, will only take effect after the exaltation
of the Cause of Him Whom We shall manifest in truth, or of that which hath
already been made manifest in justice.  Ere this, ye are at liberty to enter into
wedlock as ye wish, that haply by this means ye may exalt the Cause of God.3
Baha ’u’lla h changed the above injunction and allowed marriage with
followers from other religions.4  In the Kita b-i-Aqdas, Baha ’u’lla h explained “Both
taking and giving in marriage are permissible [to non-believers]; thus did the Lord
decree when He ascended the throne of bounteousness and grace.”5
The Ba b states in the Baya n that if either the husband or the wife is unable to
procreate then the fertile partner may, with the permission of the spouse, choose
another.  However, the Ba b banned the Islamic practice of ṣígha (i.e. temporary
marriage).6
The Universal House of Justice explains the permitted number of wives in the
Baha ’í  Faith:
While the text of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas appears to permit bigamy, Bahá’u’lláh
counsels that tranquillity and contentment derive from monogamy.  In
another Tablet, He underlines the importance of the individual’s acting in
such a way as to “bring comfort to himself and to his partner.”  ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá, the authorized Interpreter of the Bahá’í Writings, states that in the
text of the Aqdas monogamy is in effect enjoined.  He elaborates this theme
in a number of Tablets, including the following:

Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Note 88, p. 205.
Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1968–1973, pp. 109–110.
The Ba b in The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 139, pp. 69–70.
Universal House of Justice, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 150.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Questions and Answers 84, p. 131.
Muh ammad Afna n, “The Ba b’s Baya n”, pp. 7–16.

Dispensation of the Ba b
“Know thou that polygamy is not permitted under the law of God, for
contentment with one wife hath been clearly stipulated.  Taking a second
wife is made dependent upon equity and justice being upheld between the
two wives, under all conditions.  However, observance of justice and equity
towards two wives is utterly impossible.  The fact that bigamy has been made
dependent upon an impossible condition is clear proof of its absolute
prohibition.  Therefore it is not permissible for a man to have more than one
wife.”1
According to the Baya n, marriage is conditioned upon the payment of a dowry
by the groom to the bride.  The dowry is negotiated between 19 and 95 mithqals2
of gold for city-dwellers, or silver for village dwellers, the place being that of the
residence of the groom’s parents.3  Baha ’u’lla h confirmed this law in the Kita b-i-
Aqdas:
No marriage may be contracted without payment of a dowry, which hath
been fixed for city-dwellers at nineteen mithqals of pure gold, and for village-
dwellers at the same amount in silver.  Whoso wisheth to increase this sum,
it is forbidden him to exceed the limit of ninety-five mithqáls.  Thus hath the
command been writ in majesty and power.  If he content himself, however,
with a payment of the lowest level, it shall be better for him according to the
Book.  God, verily, enricheth whomsoever He willeth through both heavenly
and earthly means, and He, in truth, hath power over all things.4
It should be noted that at the time of writing some of the laws of the Kita b-i-
Aqdas are not currently universally enforced, such as the dowry.  The Universal
House of Justice will decide in the future when the laws are to be implemented.
Divorce and year of waiting
“Formerly in Persia divorce was very easily obtained,” said ‘Abdu’l-Baha .
“Among the people of the past [Islamic] Dispensation a trifling matter would cause
divorce.”5  A form of Islamic divorce is called ṭaláq (“repudiation”) where the
husband pronounces that word to the wife three times in order to immediately
dissolve the marriage.  In this regard, the Baya n discourages but permits divorce
after a year of waiting and patience in an effort to renew affection and love.6
There is also an allowance in the Baya n for a divorced couple to marry again.7
The Kitáb-i-Aqdas confirms these provisions:

Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pp. 205–206.
A mithqál is about 3.64 g.  Nineteen matha qí l (mithqals) of gold had a value of about
$US4,000 in August 2021.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 6:7.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 66, p. 42.
‘Abdu’l-Baha  in Lights of Guidance, section 1306, p. 391.
The Ba b, Persian and Arabic Baya n 6:12.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 6:12.

21.  Ba bí  laws modified and/or confirmed by Baha ’u’lla h

Should resentment or antipathy arise between husband and wife, he1 is not
to divorce her but to bide in patience throughout the course of one whole
year, that perchance the fragrance of affection may be renewed between
them.  If, upon the completion of this period, their love hath not returned, it
is permissible for divorce to take place.  God’s wisdom, verily, hath
encompassed all things.  The Lord hath prohibited, in a Tablet inscribed by
the Pen of His command, the practice to which ye formerly had recourse
when thrice ye had divorced a woman.  This He hath done as a favour on His
part, that ye may be accounted among the thankful.  He who hath divorced
his wife may choose, upon the passing of each month, to remarry her when
there is mutual affection and consent, so long as she hath not taken another
husband.  Should she have wed again, then, by this other union, the
separation is confirmed and the matter is concluded unless, clearly, her
circumstances change.  Thus hath the decree been inscribed with majesty in
this glorious Tablet by Him Who is the Dawning-place of Beauty.2
According to Peter Smith, the new regulations on matrimony by the Ba b
“contrasts with the Shi’i practice of the time in which child marriage, polygamy,
concubinage, and instant divorce by the husband were common.”3
Division of inheritance
The Baya n divides a deceased’s state into seven categories:  (1) the children,
(2) the spouse, (3) the father, (4) the mother, (5) the brother, (6) the sister and
the (7) teacher, meaning “teachers of the “sciences of the Baya n”,4 in decreasing
portions, following an order of proximity to the deceased.5  Children receive the
greatest allocation in the ratio of 9 parts.
As mentioned earlier, it is obligatory for Baha ’í s to leave a will and they are
free to decide howsoever they would like to distribute their estate.  In cases of
intestacy, Baha ’u’lla h confirms in the Kita b-i-Aqdas the above arrangement but
allocates double the portion to the children because “He ‘heard the clamour of the
children as yet unborn.’”6  The additional children’s portion is deducted from the
portions of the other recipients.  The following table shows the various
inheritance ratios.



The Universal House of Justice clarification regarding gender laws:  “In general, the
laws of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas are stated succinctly.  An example of this conciseness can be
seen in the fact that many are expressed only as they apply to a man, but it is apparent
from the Guardian’s writings that, where Baha ’u’lla h has given a law as between a man
and a woman, it applies mutatis mutandis between a woman and a man unless the
context makes this impossible.” (The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 7)
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 68, pp. 43–44.
Peter Smith, The Babí and Bahá’í Religions, pp. 34–35.
Peter Terry, Translation into English of A. L. M. Nicolas’ French.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 8:16.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 20, p. 26; & note 38, p. 184.

Dispensation of the Ba b

Category
Ar. Bayán shares
%
Kitáb-i-Aqdas shares
%
Children
9 × 60 = 540
18 × 60 = 1080
Spouse
8 × 60 = 480
6.5 × 60 = 390
Father
7 × 60 = 420
5.5 × 60 = 330
Mother
6 × 60 = 360
4.4 × 60 = 270
Brother
5 × 60 = 300
3.5 × 60 = 210
Sister
4 × 60 = 240
2.5 × 60 = 150
Teacher
3 × 60 = 180
1.5 × 60 = 90

Total  2,520

Total  2,520

Table of inheritance ratios
The Universal House of Justice has provided the following comment on the
wisdom of this law:
In the Arabic Bayán the Báb described His inheritance law as being “in
accordance with a hidden knowledge in the Book of God—a knowledge
that shall never change or be replaced.”  He also stated that the numbers
by which the division of the inheritance was expressed had been invested
with a significance intended to aid in the recognition of Him Whom God
will make manifest.
The “nine” mentioned here is represented in the Arabic text by the letter
“Ta ’”, which is its equivalent in the abjad notation [see Glossary].  It is the
first element of the Ba b’s division of inheritance, where He designates
“nine parts” as the share of the children.  The significance of nine lies in its
being the numerical equivalent of the Greatest Name “Baha ,” alluded to in
the next part of this verse as “the concealed and manifest, the inviolable
and unapproachably exalted Name.”1
The Universal House of Justice explains the intestacy arrangements provided
for in the Kita b-i-Aqdas:
It is worth noting that the Baha ’í  laws of inheritance apply only when the
individual dies without making a will.  Indeed, one of ‘Abdu’l-Baha ’s
Tablets seems to indicate that the very provisions of the Baha ’í  law of
intestacy are intended as an incentive to individuals not to neglect the duty
of making a will early in life.2

Baha ’u’lla h. The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Note 48, p. 188.
Letter 1 July 1996 from the Universal House of Justice to an individual.

21.  Ba bí  laws modified and/or confirmed by Baha ’u’lla h

Age of maturity
The age of maturity for girls in Islam is 9 lunar years, which is when puberty
sometimes occurs following first menstruation.1  The Ba b raises this minimum
age requirement for marriage and fasting to eleven.2
In 19th century Persia marriages were arranged at a very early age and very
often were not consummated until many years later.  The Kita b-i-Aqdas states
that the “age of maturity is fifteen for both men and women.”3
Burial, Ḥuqúqu’lláh and pilgrimage
The following discussion pertains to burials, H uqu qu’lla h, cleanliness and
pilgrimage.
Burial
This section deals with burial guidelines and the prayer for the dead.  In Islam
the deceased are wrapped in fabric.  Burial in coffins is frowned upon and
Muslims follow the practise of the time of Muh ammad.  Innovation is not allowed.
According to the Baya n, the deceased should be buried in a coffin made of
crystal, or carved and polished stone.  The body should be wrapped in five sheets
of silk or cotton and a ring should be placed upon the person’s right hand.4  These
burial provisions were confirmed by Baha ’u’lla h with the exception of the words
inscribed on the ring.
In the Baya n the inscription on the ring for men was:  “Unto God belongeth all
that is in the heavens and on the earth and whatsoever is between them, and He, in
truth, hath knowledge of all things” and for women “Unto God belongeth the
dominion of the heavens and the earth and whatsoever is between them, and He, in
truth, is potent over all things.”5  These verses were replaced in the Kita b-i-Aqdas
by a single verse for both men and women:  “I came forth from God, and return
unto Him, detached from all save Him, holding fast to His Name, the Merciful, the
Compassionate.”6
In the Kita b-i-Aqdas, Baha ’u’lla h also adds good quality wood as a suitable
material for a coffin:
The Lord hath decreed that the dead should be interred in coffins made of
crystal, of hard, resistant stone, or of wood that is both fine and durable, and
that graven rings should be placed upon their fingers.7

Baharieh Rouhani Ma‘ani, Leaves of the Twin Divine Trees, p. 4.
The Ba b, Persian and Arabic Baya n 8:15.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Questions and Answers 20, p. 113.
4  The Ba b, Persian Baya n 8:11.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para, 19, pp. 64–65.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para, 19, pp. 64–65.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para, 129, p. 64.

Dispensation of the Ba b
The Prayer for the Dead is the only obligatory, congregational prayer
stipulated by the Ba b.  This means that it must be recited by one person while the
others stand listening in silence.  However, the reader has no special religious
rank.
The Prayer for the Dead revealed by the Ba b in the Arabic Baya n(5:11) consists
of six invocations, each of which is recited 19 times.  These six invocations were
later confirmed by Baha ’u’lla h in the Kita b-i-Aqdas with an additional preceding
prayer.  Baha ’u’lla h provides the following instruction:
In the Prayer for the Dead six specific passages have been sent down by God,
the Revealer of Verses.  Let one who is able to read recite that which hath
been revealed to precede these passages; and as for him who is unable, God
hath relieved him of this requirement.  He, of a truth, is the Mighty, the
Pardoner.1
Apart from reiterating the six verses revealed by the Ba b, Baha ’u’lla h added
an invocation:2
Let him, then, repeat six times the greeting “Alláh-u-Abhá,” and then repeat
nineteen times each of the following verses:
We all, verily, worship God.
We all, verily, bow down before God.
We all, verily, are devoted unto God.
We all, verily, give praise unto God.
We all, verily, yield thanks unto God.
We all, verily, are patient in God.3
The Universal House of Justice explains the structure of the Prayer for the
Dead in the Baha ’í  Faith:
The passages that form part of the Prayer for the Dead comprise the
repetition of the greeting “Alláh-u-Abhá” (God is the All-Glorious) six
times, each followed by nineteen repetitions of one of six specifically
revealed verses.  These verses are identical with those in the Prayer for the
Dead revealed by the Báb in the Bayán.  Bahá’u’lláh added a supplication
to precede these passages.4
Transporting the deceased remains to a distant shrine is forbidden in the
Persian Baya n.5  There is also an injunction in the Kita b-i-Aqdas to bury the dead
within one hour’s journey from the place of death.6

Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 8, p. 22.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 170.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pp. 101–102.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 170.
See the Persian Baya n 14:18; & Browne, “Introduction to Nuqt at al-Ka f”, p. 51.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 66.

21.  Ba bí  laws modified and/or confirmed by Baha ’u’lla h

The Ba b counsels mourning in moderation for a relative’s passing—avoiding
practices such as tearing one’s clothes or beating one’s own body.1  The Ba b also
counsels the parents of a dead child not to approach the body in order to avoid
further pain.2  In this regard, Baha ’u’lla h writes:
Lament not in your hours of trial, neither rejoice therein; seek ye the Middle
Way which is the remembrance of Me in your afflictions and reflection over
that which may befall you in future.  Thus informeth you He Who is the
Omniscient, He Who is aware.3
In the aforementioned passage, Shoghi Effendi translated maṣá’ib4 as “hours
of trial” to characterize the loss of a loved one.
Payment of Ḥuqúqu’lláh
The payment of H uqu qu’lla h (“Right of God”) is an ordinance enunciated by
Baha ’u’lla h in the Kita b-i-Aqdas.  It is a voluntary payment offered to the Head of
the Baha ’í  Faith.  The funds are used to advance the Cause of God, for socio-
economic projects or for philanthropic purposes.5
The law of H uqu qu’lla h has its roots in the Baya n. The Baya n prescribes that
whenever the value of a person’s newly acquired possessions exceed 100
mithqals of gold they must give 19 mithqals of gold (or its equivalent) to the Ba b.
The Ba b retains one mithqa l of gold and gives one mithqa l of gold to each of the
eighteen Letters of the Living—some of which can be used to support their
spouses and their children).  What is not used by the Ba b of His share is preserved
for Him Whom God shall make Manifest when He appears.6
It is noteworthy that, the Ba b created a wealth tax on each believer of 95 out
of every 6,005 (about 16%) mithqals of newly acquired gold or its equivalent, the
proceeds of which ultimately must be passed to Him Whom God shall make
Manifest.7 Baha ’u’lla h once wrote: “The Primal Point hath said that they should pay
Ḥuqúqu’lláh on the value of whatsoever they possess, but notwithstanding, We have
in this greatest Dispensation exempted the residence and household furnishings,
that is, such furnishings as are needful.”8

The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 9:18.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 10:12.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 43, p. 35.
Mus í ba, plural Mus í ba t, Mas a ’ib (“misfortune, calamity, disaster”)
Allan Waters. Ḥuqúqu'lláh, the Right of God, pp. 7-10.
Moojan Momen, Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne, p. 373.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 8:17.
8  Baha ’u’lla h, The Bahá’í Reference Library.  Available from:
https://www.bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/bahaullah/additional-tablets-
extracts-from-tablets-revealed-bahaullah/additional-tablets-extracts-from-tablets-
revealed-bahaullah.pdf?369f2267

Dispensation of the Ba b
In the Kita b-i-Aqdas, Baha ’u’lla h formalizes the law of H uqu qu’lla h in the
following terms:
Should anyone acquire one hundred mithqáls of gold, nineteen mithqáls
thereof are God’s and to be rendered unto Him, the Fashioner of earth and
heaven.  Take heed, O people, lest ye deprive yourselves of so great a bounty.
This We have commanded you, though We are well able to dispense with you
and with all who are in the heavens and on earth; in it there are benefits and
wisdoms beyond the ken of anyone but God, the Omniscient, the All-Informed.
Say:  By this means He hath desired to purify what ye possess and to enable
you to draw nigh unto such stations as none can comprehend save those
whom God hath willed.1
The basic sum on which Ḥuqúqu’lláh is payable is nineteen mithqáls of gold.
In other words, when money to the value of this sum hath been acquired, a
payment of Ḥuqúq falleth due.  Likewise Ḥuqúq is payable when the value,
not the number, of other forms of property reacheth the prescribed amount.
Ḥuqúqu’lláh is payable no more than once.  A person, for instance, who
acquireth a thousand mithqáls of gold, and payeth the Ḥuqúq, is not liable to
make a further such payment on this sum, but only on what accrueth to it
through commerce, business and the like.  When this increase, namely the
profit realized, reacheth the prescribed sum, one must carry out what God
hath decreed.  Only when the principal changeth hands is it once more
subject to payment of Ḥuqúq, as it was the first time.  The Primal Point [the
Báb] hath directed that Ḥuqúqu’lláh must be paid on the value of whatsoever
one possesseth; yet, in this Most Mighty Dispensation, We have exempted the
household furnishings, that is such furnishings as are needed, and the
residence itself.2
The H uqu qu’lla h payment is to be offered to the Head of the Baha ’í  Faith,
according to the provisions of the Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Baha .  The Head
of the Baha ’í  Faith is now the Universal House of Justice.
Pilgrimage and the Qibla
The Ba b designated a new Qibla (Qiblih in Persian) for the believers, this being
the direction towards which one turns in prayer, as well as the destination of
pilgrimage.  Thus, the Ba b replaced the Qibla of the Muslims, which is the Ka‘bah
in Mecca, mentioned in the Qur’a n (2:127; 3:96) as al-Bayt, meaning “the House [of
God]”.  In regards to the “House”, the Ba b explained that
… there hath never been, nor will ever be, a material dwelling-place for God,
but that during each Revelation of the Will, it is the earth that He hath
attributed to Himself that hath become His House and the seat around which
the angels of heaven and the people of the earth revolve.  Nay, rather, all
circle round His Command which is manifested in that realm of dust.  If this

Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 97, p. 55.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Questions and Answers 8, pp. 108–109.

21.  Ba bí  laws modified and/or confirmed by Baha ’u’lla h

sanctity were intrinsic to the dust itself, there would have been no change in
the House of God in the past, and likewise no change in the future.1
The sacredness of the Ka‘bah is not inherent in its physical foundation but in
the Word of God, which is identical with the Revealer, this now being the Ba b.
Thus, the Ba b referred to Himself as the House of God—i.e. the new Qibla, which
was to be the true “turning” point of adoration until the appearance of Him Whom
God shall make Manifest.
The Ba b also describes His living corporeal body and His mortal remains, as a
point of veneration; and, in the Qayyu mu’l-Asma ’, He designated His remains as
a future place of pilgrimage.  The site of His martyrdom was also to be a place of
pilgrimage,2  and the Ba b permitted the believers to recite 95 verses for the
anniversary of His birth and passing.3
God, besides Whom there is none other true God, saith:  Indeed, whoso
visiteth the Remembrance of God after His passing, it is as though he hath
attained the presence of the Lord, seated upon His mighty Throne.  Verily this
is the Way of God, the Most Exalted, which hath been irrevocably decreed in
the Mother Book ….4
Baha ’u’lla h Himself selected the spot on Mount Carmel upon which the
sepulchre of the Ba b was to be built, effectively designating it as a place of
pilgrimage.  The Tomb of the Ba b was acclaimed by ‘Abdu’l-Baha  “as the Spot
round which the Concourse on high circle in adoration.”5
While the Ba b was the Qibla or “House of God” for His dispensation, thereafter,
the Qibla would be the physical presence of Him Whom God shall make Manifest,
wherever that might be.  Baha ’u’lla h confirms the Qibla chosen by the Ba b:
O people of the Bayán!  Fear ye the Most Merciful and consider what He hath
revealed in another passage.  He [The Báb] said:  “The Qiblih is indeed He
Whom God will make manifest; whenever He moveth, it moveth, until He
shall come to rest.”6  Thus was it set down by the Supreme Ordainer when He
desired to make mention of this Most Great Beauty.  Meditate on this, O
people, and be not of them that wander distraught in the wilderness of error.
If ye reject Him at the bidding of your idle fancies, where then is the Qiblih to
which ye will turn, O assemblage of the heedless?  Ponder ye this verse, and
judge equitably before God, that haply ye may glean the pearls of mysteries
from the ocean that surgeth in My Name, the All-Glorious, the Most High.7

The Ba b, Persian Baya n 4:16; Provisional translation in Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart,
p. 279.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 8:12.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 8:13.
The Ba b, Selections, p. 64.
‘Abdu’l-Baha  in God Passes By, p. 277.
The Ba b, Arabic Baya n 8:7.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 137, p. 68.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Furthermore, the Ba b prescribed pilgrimage to the resting place of the
corporal body of Baha ’u’lla h after His passing, which is where the Qibla would
come to rest.  The Ba b has given the following explanation regarding the
importance of the remains of Baha ’u’lla h:
He [Bahá’u’lláh] is the Sun of Truth, the Face of Unity, the Countenance of
Lordship, the Inmost Reality of Divinity, and the Self of Eternity.
Should He repose upon the dust, all its atoms would call aloud proudly:
Verily This is the Throne which the All-Merciful hath mounted!  When even
the dust, by virtue of this honour, glorieth in being the Throne of His Lord,
how much more doth it behove men of insight to glory in their Incomparable,
All-Compelling God, and to seek illumination from their Peerless, All-
Victorious Lord!1
In the Persian Baya n2 “the new Ka‘ba or House of God was to be the house of
the Ba b in Shiraz”,3 which is now designated as  a place for pilgrimage.4  Except
for a prescription for circumambulating His House, the Ba b did not provide any
major pilgrimage ritual.  This observance was not compulsory for women if it was
difficult for them to travel.
Years later, in the Kita b-i-Aqdas, Baha ’u’lla h formally prescribed pilgrimage
to the House of the Ba b in Shí ra z5 and the House of Baha ’u’lla h in Baghda d6 for
those who are able, although women are exempted from this requirement.7
The Lord hath ordained that those of you who are able shall make
pilgrimage to the sacred House, and from this He hath exempted women as
a mercy on His part.  He, of a truth, is the All-Bountiful, the Most Generous.8
Furthermore, before the revelation of the Kita b-i-Aqdas, Baha ’u’lla h revealed
two Tablets of the Pilgrimage, referred to in Persian as Su riy-i-H ajj (Sura of the
Pilgrimage) I and II.  It is said that Nabí l9 fulfilled with utmost devotion the
performance of the rites.  The ceremony specific for the House of the Ba b begins
from outside the city and continues along the path that leads to the House and
then within the House.  It is said that when people saw Nabí l wandering through
the streets wholly absorbed in the fulfilment of this extensive rite, they thought
that he may have lost his mind.10  Shoghi Effendi writes:

The Ba b in Nader Saiedi, Introduction to the Tablet to Báqir, pp. 7–8.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 4:16.
Armin Eschraghi, “Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy”, p. 231.
Denis MacEoin, Rituals in Babism and Baha’ism, p. 25.
The House of the Ba b in Shí ra z was demolished in 1979 by orders of the Iranian
government.
The House of Baha ’u’lla h in Baghda d was demolished in 2013 by adversaries of the
Baha ’í  Faith.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 137, p. 68.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 32, p. 30 .
Nabí l-i-A‘z am, Apostle of Baha ’u’lla h and author of The Dawn-Breakers.
10 Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. 2, p. 240..

21.  Ba bí  laws modified and/or confirmed by Baha ’u’lla h

It was during those days that Nabí l, recently honored with the title of
Nabí l-i-A‘ẓam, in a Tablet specifically addressed to him, in which he was
bidden to “deliver the Message” of his Lord “to East and West,” arose,
despite intermittent persecutions, to tear asunder the “most grievous veil,”
to implant the love of an adored Master in the hearts of His countrymen,
and to champion the Cause which his Beloved had, under such tragic
conditions, proclaimed.  It was during those same days that Bahá’u’lláh
instructed this same Nabí l to recite on His behalf the two newly revealed
Tablets of the Pilgrimage, and to perform, in His stead, the rites prescribed
in them, when visiting the Ba b’s House in Shí ra z and the Most Great House
in Baghda d—an act that marks the inception of one of the holiest
observances, which, in a later period, the Kitáb-i-Aqdas was to formally
establish.1

The review of the laws introduced by the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h in chapters 18,
19, 20 & 21 was set mainly in the context of the Persian Baya n and the Kita b-i-
Aqdas.  The discussion revealed the close association and smooth progression
from the dispensation of the Ba b to the dispensation of Baha ’u’lla h.  The laws of
the Ba b provided a transition between Islam and the Baha ’í  Faith.  Within a six-
year period, the laws of the Ba b radically changed the religious landscape,
allowing Him Whom God shall manifest to create a new framework without the
need to refer to Jewish, Christian and Islamic conventions.  The Writings of
Baha ’u’lla h focused on creating an even more progressive religious system that
is destined to last at least one thousand years.
The next chapter focuses on Ba bí  ordinances not discussed by Baha ’u’lla h in
the Kita b-i-Aqdas.

Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 176–177.



Some Bábí ordinances not
discussed in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
The laws of the Baya n that were not confirmed in the Kita b-i-Aqdas are
considered to have been abrogated.  In the same way, any laws of Islam not
mentioned by the Ba b, such as circumcision,1 were abrogated with the coming of
the Ba b.  However, some Ba bí  practices were addressed by ‘Abdu’l-Baha , Shoghi
Effendi and the Universal House of Justice.  Five of those practices are outlined
below:
Notwithstanding this, some Ba bí  practices still found their way into the
individual and social life of Baha ’í s, and were subsequently dealt with by ‘Abdu’l-
Baha , Shoghi Effendi or the Universal House of Justice.
•
Use of ringstones
•
Prohibition on use of tobacco
•
New personal salutations
•
Tattoos
•
Facing the sun and moon
Use of ringstones
In the Baya n, the Ba b advised believers to wear a ring made of red cornelian
containing certain verses,2 the purpose of which was to enable the person
wearing the ring to recognize Him Whom God shall manifest at the time of His
appearance.  Shoghi Effendi indicated that wearing a Baha ’í  ring is not
obligatory.3  ‘Abdu’l-Baha  mentioned that ringstones with the Greatest Name
should be worn on the small finger of the right hand4 which is similar to Islamic
practices.5

Circumcision is not mentioned in the Qur’a n.  On the contrary, the Qur’a n forbids
harming oneself or others (See Qur’a n 7:33 & 6:120).  The practice of circumcision is an
ancient tradition, which is followed in Shariah Law on the basis of hadiths.  Shoghi
Effendi wrote that “with regard to the practice of circumcision; the Teachings bear no
reference to this matter, and it is therefore not enjoined upon the believers.” (Shoghi
Effendi, Dawn of a New Day, p. 86)
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 6:10.
Letter 22 February 1956 written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an individual believer.
‘Abdu’l-Baha , Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas, vol. 1, p. 178.
Abu’l-Qasim Faizi, “Explanation”, p. 11.

22.  Some Ba bí  ordinances not discussed in the Kita b-i-Aqdas

Talismans and gematria
Engagement with talismans and gematria remained important in the
Revelation of the Ba b.1  These practices were common in Shí ‘í  Islam.2  In
particular, talismatics was part of the Islamic pseudo-sciences and a subject of
study in religious seminars along with the study of the Qur’a n, the hadiths and
other topics.  The later included theology, Arabic grammar and pronunciation,
and elements of Islamic philosophy and logic, all of which the Persian Baya n (4:10)
described as useless knowledge and sometimes harmful.3
Gematria is the technique of assigning a numerical value to letters and words
in order to represent mystical statements or meanings.  For example, using the
abjad code system, the words Baha ’ and the Ba b, have a numerical value of nine
and five, respectively.4  Shoghi Effendi advised that, “This practice is no more in
use but during the time of Baha ’u’lla h and the Ba b it was quite in vogue among
the educated classes, and we find it very much used in the Baya n.”5
“This method [of numerical values] was used a great deal by the Ba b,” the
Hand of the Cause Abu’l-Qa sim Faizí  wrote.  “He very often gave people and places
surnames which had the same numerical value as the original names.  For
example, He called Ma h-Ku , Básiṭ (open).  Ma h-Ku  and Ba sit  have the same
numerical value of 72.  He called Chihrí q Shadíd (Grievous).  Both of these have an
abjad numerical value of 318.  Likewise, the author of the Dawn-Breakers was
named Muh ammad, but surnamed Nabí l; both names have a numerical value of
92.”6
In turn, talismans constituted graphical and artistic representations of
mystical principles on objects or paper.7  Believers were advised to wear
talismans round their necks with inscriptions related to divine names.  The
design of such talismans was to be taught to children from eleven years, which
was the age of maturity identified by the Ba b.8  Baha ’u’lla h and ‘Abdu’l-Baha  did
not value these practices and there is no mention of them in the Kita b-i-Aqdas.
Elaborating on the use of talismans in the Ba bí  Faith, Moojan Momen wrote:
The Báb did not prohibit such practices but rather wanted to educate his
followers gradually away from them.  He saw their function more as a
spiritual protection rather than a physical one … the purpose of this is not

The Ba b, Persian Baya n 3:16.
Peter Smith, The Babí and Bahá’í Religions.
A. L. M. Nicolas, Le Beyan Arabe, pp. 31–32.
Abu’l-Qa sim Faizí , “Explanation”, p.16.
Letter written 28 July 1936 on behalf of the Shoghi Effendi to an individual believer.
Cited in Helen Hornby, Lights of Guidance, section 1372, p. 414.
Naysan and Zohre Faizi, Penned by A. Q. Faizi, pp. 41–42.
Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 329.
Denis MacEoin, Rituals in Babism and Baha’ism, p. 19.

Dispensation of the Ba b
to achieve some magical effect but rather that what is written on the paper
should appear in the soul of that person1 … [The Báb’s] intention in asking
his followers to carry these pentagrams and circles is that by having their
attention constantly turned towards God, his followers will, in the day
when the next Manifestation of God [Bahá’u’lláh] appears, immediately
turn to him.2
Baha ’u’lla h elevated the concept of talisman from a physical to a human
dimension asserting in a metaphor that:  “Man is the supreme Talisman.  Lack of a
proper education hath, however, deprived him of that which he doth inherently
possess.”3
As with gematria, Baha ’u’lla h made it a secondary issue and scarcely used it
whereas ‘Abdu’l-Baha  engaged with that tradition though only minimally.  None
of those practices were considered in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.
Tobacco
The prohibition against smoking tobacco4 is an example of a law of the Ba b
that was not confirmed in the Kita b-i-Aqdas.  The practice was, however, strongly
discouraged by ‘Abdu’l-Baha  because of its impurity and effects as a “deadly
poison”.5  The  prohibition against smoking tobacco (likewise due to its impurity)
by the Ba b is accompanied with a similar ban on using asafoetida (Arabic حلتیت,
h iltí t, Persian انگژه, anguzha), a spice with a strong pungent smell and a bitter
taste that is used in some foods in Afghanistan, India and Iran.
New personal salutations
The Ba b changed the traditional Muslim greeting of “as-Sala mu ‘alaykum”
(“Peace be upon you”) whose reply is “wa ‘alaykumu’s-sala m (“And upon you be
peace”) for men and women.
The Ba b states that men should greet each other with “Alla hu Akbar” (“God is
Most Great”) and reply with “Alla hu A‘z am” (“God is Most Mighty”), whereas
women should salute with “Alla hu Abha ” (“God is Most Glorious”) and respond
with “Alla hu Ajmal” (“God is the Most Beauteous”).  These were more an
invocation to God than a regular salutary greeting.6

The Ba b, Persian Baya n 4:5.
Moojan Momen, The Star Tablet of the Báb.
Baha ’u’lla h, Gleanings of the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 259–260.
The Ba b, Persian Baya n 9:7.
‘Abdu’l-Baha , Selections, pp. 147–148.
The invocations are here given as transcripted Arabic forms.  For example, the Persian
form of Alla hu Abha r is Alla h-u-Abha r (sometimes given as Alla h’u’Abha ).

22.  Some Ba bí  ordinances not discussed in the Kita b-i-Aqdas

Shoghi Effendi wrote that when Baha ’u’lla h was in Adrianople (Edirne), Alláh-
u-Abhá was adopted as a new salutation among the Baha ’í s.1  At that time, the
believers were using the Islamic greeting of Alláh’u’Akbar.
Tattoos
According to the Merriam-Webster Dictionary, a tattoo is “a mark, figure,
design, or word intentionally fixed or placed on the skin.”2  Tattoos can be delible
or indelible.
The Islamic prohibition on tattoos was replaced by the exhortation by the Ba b
for both men and women to tattoo their chests with “O Thou My God”
(Alláhumma) and “the Most Gracious” (ar-Raḥmán), respectively, in beautiful
calligraphy.3
On this matter, the Universal House of Justice advised an individual believer
as follows:
In reply to your enquiry, nothing at all has been found in the Holy Texts on
the matter of tattooing.  There is, of course, the following general counsel
given by Bahá’u’lláh:
Let there be naught in your demeanour of which sound and upright minds
would disapprove, and make not yourselves the playthings of the ignorant.
Well is it with him who hath adorned himself with the vesture of seemly
conduct and a praiseworthy character.  (The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, para. 159)
Generally, what is appropriate in such matters will clearly vary from
culture to culture.4
Further, on the matter of using the “Greatest Name” on tattoos, the Universal
House of Justice recommends:
While the House of Justice is reluctant to issue a list of the specific uses of
the Greatest Name which should be avoided, the principal thing is for the
friends to realize the great sacredness of this symbol, and to use it in ways
which are dignified and appropriate ….5

Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 176.
Merriam-Webster
Dictionary
(online).

Available
from:
www.merriam-
webster.com/dictionary/tattoo
Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 329.
Letter 19 August 2003 from the Universal House of Justice.  Available online from:
https://bahai-library.com/uhj_permissibility_tattoos
Letter written 3 June 1987 on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to the National
Spiritual Assembly of the Hawaiian Islands.  Cited in Helen Hornby, Lights of Guidance,
p. 267.

Dispensation of the Ba b
Facing the sun and moon
There were some provisions by the Ba b that, although controversial from a
Quranic perspective, can be better understood in the light of the coming of
Baha ’u’lla h.  For example, the Ba b exhorts believers to recite a verse every Friday
facing the sun in honour of the Sun of Truth1—Him Whom God shall make
Manifest.  The verse was, “The Brightness [Baha ] on thine aspect is only from God,
O rising Sun, and bear witness unto that Which God hath witnessed concerning
Himself, that there is no God but Him, the Precious, the Beloved.”2  There is also a
verse to be recited facing the moon once a month.3  In the Qayyu mu’l-Asma ’:  the
Ba b called Himself “this Radiant Moon.”4
Some authors5 consider these practices to be similar to practices of the
Zoroastrian religion.6  Whether this was His intention or not, the adoption by the
Ba b of the millenary Zoroastrian Naw-Ru z (New Year) celebration7 and its
subsequent ratification by Baha ’u’lla h represent the most prominent intersection
of these three Persian-born religions.  Both the Zoroastrian and Badí ‘ calendars
were solar, contrary to the Islamic one, which was lunar, with the names of the
month reflecting attributes of God, and it began with the vernal equinox.
Nevertheless, the Ba bí  devotions involving turning to the sun and moon were not
ratified by Baha ’u’lla h.
The above remarks warrant a broader elaboration on the influence and bond
between Zoroastrianism and the five Abrahamic religions, namely, Judaism,
Christianity, Islam, and the Ba bí  and Baha ’í  Faith.
Historical data about Zoroaster, the Prophet founder of Zoroastrianism, is
somewhat unclear.  According to the Universal House of Justice, “Regarding the
beginning of the Zoroastrian era, in one of His Tablets ‘Abdu’l-Baha  states that
Zoroaster lived about 750 years after Moses; in a letter to an individual believer
the Guardian’s secretary wrote on his behalf:  ‘Zoroaster lived about a thousand
years before Christ.  There is no exact date in the teachings regarding the
beginning of His Dispensation.’”8
There were two messianic figures expected in the Zoroastrian religion,
namely, Ushida r-Ma h (“Grand Promoter of Righteousness”) and the Sha h Bahram

The Ba b, Persian Bayan, 7:17.
Edward Granville Browne, “The Ba bí s of Persia”, p. 929.
Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 929–930.
Nader Saiedi, Gate of the Heart, p. 134.
Edward Browne, “The Ba bí s of Persia”, p. 908; Abbas Amanat, Resurrection and
Renewal, p. 133; Vahman, “The Conversion of Zoroastrians”, p. 38.
Boyce & Grenet, History of Zoroastrianism, p. 114.
Sadri & Ferdowsi, Shahnameh, p. 21.
On behalf of Shoghi Effendi in Lights of Guidance, para. 1691, p. 502.

22.  Some Ba bí  ordinances not discussed in the Kita b-i-Aqdas

(“King Victorious”)1 meaning the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h, respectively.  Baha ’u’lla h
Himself was a descendant of Zoroaster.2
According to the Hand of the Cause Zikrullah Khadem:
The Parsis were long awaiting the fulfillment of their prophecies that,
‘After the victory of the Arabs and the decline of the Zoroastrians I (God)
will raise a great man in Iran from the dynasty of the Kings, who will gather
the people of the world from the east and the west to the worship of God.”
“He (the Promised One), then (at that time) will make the whole universe
anew.”3
“A great Baha ’í  scholar, Mí rza  Abu’l-Fad l (Fazl),” Adib Taherzadeh wrote,
“through extensive historical research has verified that Baha ’u’lla h was
descended from Zoroaster and the Sasaniyan kings of Persia, thereby fulfilling
certain traditions that the great Redeemer of mankind would be of pure Persian
lineage.”4
‘Abdu’l-Baha  affirmed that in the land of Israel, Zoroaster “held converse with
some of the Prophets of Israel”5 and Baha ’u’lla h refers to Him as “He Who is the
Spirit of Purity”6 and wrote that “… the fire-temples of the world stand as eloquent
testimony to this truth.  In their time they summoned, with burning zeal, all the
inhabitants of the earth [to him].”7  About Zoroaster, Baha ’u’lla h wrote:
A divine Manifestation Who hath extolled and magnified the one true God,
exalted be His glory, Who hath borne witness to His knowledge and confessed
that His Essence is sanctified above all things and exalted beyond every
comparison—such a Manifestation hath been called at various times a
worshipper of the sun or a fire-worshipper.  How numerous are those sublime
Manifestations and Revealers of the Divine of Whose stations the people
remain wholly unaware, of Whose grace they are utterly deprived, nay, God
forbid, Whom they curse and revile!8
Other striking parallels among them is their strong emphasis in ethics, the
showing of kindness to animals, cleanliness, importance of agriculture, the value
of social peace and tranquillity, contentment under all circumstances and the
outstanding similarity between the ancient Persian calendar and the new (Ba bí -
Baha ’í ) Badí ‘ calendar.9

William Sears, Thief in the Night, p. 92.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 94.
Javidukht Khadem, Zikrullah Khadem, p. 289.
Adib Taherzadeh, The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh, Vol. 1, p. 7.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 193.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Tabernacle of Unity, p. 6.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Tabernacle of Unity, p. 43.
Baha ’u’lla h, The Tabernacle of Unity, pp. 32–33.
Fereydun Vahman, “The Conversion of Zoroastrians”, p. 38.

Dispensation of the Ba b
During the time of the Ba b, Zoroastrians constituted the largest religious
minority group in Persia and were discriminated against as “impure” alongside
any other non-Muslim communities such as the Ba bí s.  As a result, there were
Zoroastrians who accepted the Faith of the Ba b after watching a Ba bí  being
paraded in a cruel manner, as described in A Traveller’s Narrative:
Thus they relate that the possessions of a certain Ba bí  in Ka sha n were
plundered, and his household scattered and dispersed.  They stripped him
naked and scourged him, defiled his beard, mounted him face backwards
on an ass, and paraded him through the streets and bazaars with the
utmost cruelty, to the sound of drums, trumpets, guitars, and tambourines.
A certain gabr [a Zoroastrian follower] who knew absolutely naught of the
world or its denizens chanced to be seated apart in a corner of a
caravansary.  When the clamor of the people rose high he hastened into
the street, and, becoming cognizant of the offence and the offender, and
the cause of his public disgrace and punishment in full detail, he fell to
making search, and that very day entered the society of the Ba bí s, saying,
“This very ill-usage and public humiliation is a proof of truth and the very
best of arguments.  Had it not been thus it might have been that a thousand
years would have passed ere one like me became informed.”1
The Zoroastrian Faith was one of the most widespread religions in the ancient
world.  It was forcibly displaced as the state religion by Islam in around CE 650.
The Bible does not mention the name of this religion but there are favourable
comments about Zoroastrian kings in various sections of the Old Testament (II
Chronicles 1, 26; 1; 8:1; Nehemiah, 2:1; Esther 1:3; 10:2; Isaiah 44:28; 45:1; Daniel, 9:1;
10:1; 11:1; Haggai 1:1; 1:10).  For example, the Zoroastrian king Cyrus the Great is
referred to as “His Messiah” (Isaiah 45:1) and “My Shepherd” (Isaiah 44:28), titles
that the Bible usually uses for Jesus (John 1:41; 4:25) or God Himself (Psalm 23:1)
respectively.  In another passage we read that Cyrus the Great is “the man who
executes my counsel, from a far country” (Isaiah 46:11).  All those references
coming from a Hebrew prophet of such a stance like Isaiah confirm the strong
spiritual link between both religions.
Such tributes were in recognition to the fact that Cyrus the Great, after
conquering Babylonia in 539 BCE, allowed the 70,000 captives from the Jewish
nation2 to return to Jerusalem and even helped them to rebuild their temple upon
their arrival.  As a result of such a cultural and historical encounter between
Jewish and Persians, the Jewish scripture experienced a theological
transformation incorporating motifs from the Zoroastrian religion such as the
concept of angels and demons, the advent of a Saviour, Heaven as a place for
reward and Hell as a space for chastisement, the notion of a final resurrection and
latter days or Day of Judgement.  Religious terms have come to European
languages from the old Persian vocabulary of that time, such as Paradise

E. G. Browne, A Traveller’s Narrative, p. 21.
‘Abdu’l-Baha  in Star of the West, III:13, 4 November 1912, p. 5.

22.  Some Ba bí  ordinances not discussed in the Kita b-i-Aqdas

(“Paridaeza”), Satan (“Shaitin”) and Devil (“Daeva”).  The above theological
concepts subsequently found their way into Christianity and Isla m,1 and from
there into the Ba bí -Baha ’í  Faith.
For Zoroastrians, fire is a natural, purifying element, which symbolizes God’s
light and wisdom.  For this reason, they have continuously burning flames in their
temples.  A tradition says that the fires were extinguished in all their temples the
day Muh ammad was born.  The Qur’a n does not make mention of Zoroaster
directly but identifies Him with those dwelling at ar-Rass (Qur’a n 25:38 & 50:12),
the place where Zoroaster used to preach in the region near the Araxes river and
the region to the east of the castles of Ma h-Ku  and Chihrí q.2  The Zoroastrians are
also mentioned as “al-Majús” (the Magians) in Qur’a n 22:17 alongside the Jews, the
Sabians and the Christians.
‘Abdu’l-Baha  commented on an important prophecy about the status of
Muh ammad, the Ba b and Baha ’u’lla h in the Zoroastrian scriptures:
Thou hadst written that in the sacred texts of the followers of Zoroaster it is
written that in the latter days, in three separate dispensations, the sun must
needs be brought to a standstill.  In the first dispensation, it is predicted, the
sun will remain motionless for ten days; in the second for twice that time; in
the third for no less than one whole month.  The interpretation of this
prophecy is this:  the first Dispensation to which it refers is the Muḥammadan
Dispensation during which the Sun of Truth stood still for ten days.  Each day
is reckoned as one century.  The Muḥammadan Dispensation must have,
therefore, lasted no less than one thousand years, which is precisely the
period that has elapsed from the setting of the star of the Imamate to the
advent of the Dispensation proclaimed by the Báb .  The second Dispensation
referred to in this prophecy is the one inaugurated by the Báb  Himself, which
began in the year 1260 A.H. and was brought to a close in the year 1280 A.H.
As to the third Dispensation—the Revelation proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh—
inasmuch as the Sun of Truth when attaining that station shineth in the
plenitude of its meridian splendor its duration hath been fixed for a period
of one whole month, which is the maximum time taken by the sun to pass
through a sign of the Zodiac.  From this thou canst imagine the magnitude
of the Bahá’í cycle—a cycle that must extend over a period of at least five
hundred thousand years.3

As expected, some practices of the Ba b were not accepted into the Baha ’í
dispensation.  However, some practices remain in use in the Baha ’í  community
although they are not binding and are subject to certain changes established by
‘Abdu’l-Baha , Shoghi Effendi and the Universal House of Justice.

Robert Hume, The World’s Living Religions, p. 114.
Marzieh Gail, Six Lessons on Islam, p. 14; & Abbas Amanat, Resurrection and Renewal, p.
99n.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 101–102.

Dispensation of the Ba b
In this chapter, we also reflected upon the spiritual link between six world
religions—i.e., Zoroastrianism, Judaism, Christianity, Islam and the Ba bí  and
Baha ’í  Faith.  In the context of God’s progressive revelation, such a theological
bond is also expressed in the legislative sphere, each time augmenting and
redefining God’s purpose for humanity, and strengthening the theological
connection between the previous dispensations.
As the Ba b once revealed about God’s progressive revelation:
The process of the rise and setting of the Sun of Truth will thus indefinitely
continue—a process that hath had no beginning and will have no end.

The Ba b, Selections, pp. 105–106.


Appendix:  Best-known works of the Báb
Work
Place
≈ Time
The Persian Baya n
Ma h-Ku
1847–1848
The Arabic Baya n
Ma h-Ku
1847–1848
The Qayyu mu’l-Asma ’—The Name of
the Self-Subsistent, Commentary on
the Su ra of Joseph
Shí ra z
The S ah í fatu’l-H aramayn—The Epistle
between the Two Shrines (Mecca
and Medina)
Between
Mecca and
Medina
January 1845
The Dala ’il-i-Sab‘a—The Seven Proofs
Ma h-Ku
1848–1849
Commentary on the Su ra of Kawthar—
Commentary on the Sura of the
Abundance
Shí ra z
May 1846
Commentary on the Su ra of Va’l-‘As r—
Commentary on the Sura of the
Afternoon
Is faha n
Fall of 1846
The Kita b-i-Asma ’—The Book of
Divine Names
Ma h-Ku —
Chihrí q
1848–1849
S ah í fiy-i-Makhzu mí yyih—The Hidden
Treasured Epistle
Shí ra z
Jan 1844–Jan
S ah í fiy-i-Ja‘farí yyih—Epistle to Ja‘far
Shí ra z
January 1846
Zí yara t-i-Sha h-‘Abdu’l-‘Az í m—Tablet
of Visitation to the Shrine of Sha h
‘Abdu’l-‘Az í m
Unknown
Unknown
Kita b-i-Panj-Sha’n—The Book of Five
Modes or Five Grades
Chihrí q
19 March–4 April
S ah í fiy-i-Rad aví yyih—Treatise on
Paradise
Unknown
Before Jan 1846
Risa liy-i-‘Adlí yyih—Treatise on Justice
Shí ra z
Before January
Risa liy-i-Fiqhí yyih—Treatise on
Jurisprudence
Bu shihr
When the Ba b
was 19 years
old.
Risa liy-i-Dhahabí yyih—The Golden
Treatise
Shí ra z
Kita bu’r-Ru h —The Book of the Spirit
On way back
to Bu shihr
Su riy-i-Tawh í d—Sura of the Unity of
God
Shí ra z
June 1845–
September
Lawh -i-H uru fa t—Tablet of the Letters
Chihrí q
19 March–4 April

Best-known works of the Ba b

Work
Place
≈ Time
Tafsí r-i-Nubuwat-i-Kha s s ih—Treatise
on the Prophethood of Muh ammad
Is faha n
Late 1846
Risa liy-i-Furu ‘-i-‘Adlí yyih—Treatise on
Aspects of Jurisprudence
Shí ra z
Early to mid
Khas a ’il-i-Sab‘ih—The Seven
Qualifications or Directives
Probably in
Bu shihr
Epistle to Muh ammad Sha h (I) (in the
Qayyu mu’l-Asma ’) delivered by
Mulla  H usayn
Shí ra z
Epistle to Muh ammad Sha h (II)
Bu shihr
May–June 1845
Epistle to Muh ammad Sha h (II)
Sí ya h-Diha n,
Qazví n (on
way to
Ma h-Ku )
April–May 1847
Epistle to Muh ammad Sha h (III)
Ma h-Ku
About 1848
Epistles to Muh ammad Sha h (IV and V)
before and after the trial in Tabrí z
(July 1848)
Chihrí q
April 1848–
September
Message to H a jí  Mí rza  A qa sí  (I) (in the
Qayyu mu’l-Asma ’ ) taken by Mulla
H usayn (I)
Shí ra z
Epistle to H a jí  Mí rza  A qa sí  II
Bu shihr
May–June 1845.
Epistle to H a jí  Mí rza  A qa sí  II
Sí ya h-Diha n,
Qazví n


April-May

Epistle to H a jí  Mí rza  A qa sí  III
(Khut biy-i-Qahrí yyih—Sermon of
Wrath)
Chihrí q
About August
Epistle to Sult a n ‘Abdu’l-Mají d
Muscat
(Oman)
Early 1845


Bibliography
‘Abdu’l-Baha .  ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, London.  1982.
__________.  Additional Tablets, Extracts and Talks.  Baha ’í  World Centre, Haifa.  2019.  Last
retrieved
June
at
www.bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/abdul-
baha/additional-tablets-extracts-talks/456128820/1#228370274
__________.  Foundations of World Unity.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill.  1979.
__________.  Light of the World:  Selected Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Baha ’í  Publications
Australia, Sydney.  2021.
__________.  The Promulgation of Universal Peace.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill.  1982.
__________.  Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Compiled by the Research
Department of the Universal House of Justice.  Baha ’í  World Centre, Haifa.  1978.
__________.  Some Answered Questions.  2nd ed.  Baha ’í  World Centre, Haifa.  2014.  Also
www.Baha i.org/library/authoritative-texts/abdul-Baha /some-answer ed-questions/
__________.  Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas.  Vols 1–3.  Baha ’í  Publishing Committee, Chicago.
1909, 1919 & 1916.
__________.  A Traveller’s Narrative.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill.  1980.
__________.  The Will and Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill.
1990.
‘Abdullah Yu suf ‘Alí .  The Meaning of the Holy Qur’án.  Amana Corp., Maryland, USA.  1989.
Abu’l-Fad l Gulpa yga ní , Mí rza .  Bahá’í Proofs.  J. W. Pratt & Co, New York.  1902.  Also
https://bahai-library.com/gulpaygani_bahai_proofs
__________.  Miracles and Metaphors.  Kalima t Press, Los Angeles.  1981.
Afnan, Elham.  ‘A Twofold Mission:  Some Distinctive Characteristics of the Person and
Teachings of the Ba b’.  The Bahá’í World, November 2019.  Available at
https://bahaiworld.bahai.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/ twofold-mission.pdf
Afna n, Mí rza  H abí bu’lla h.  The Genesis of the Bábí-Bahá’í Faiths in Shíráz and Fárs.  Tr.
Ahang Rabbani.  Brill, 2008.  Last retrieved 30 June 2022 at https://bahai-
library.com/pdf/a/afnan_rabbani_genesis_faiths.pdf
Afna n, Muh ammad.  ‘Ayya m-i-Butu n’ (The Days of Concealment).  Pazhúheshnámeh 2(1):3–
38, 1997.
__________.  ‘The Ba b’s Baya n:  An Analytical Survey’.  World Order, 31:4, pp. 7–16.  2000
__________.  ‘The Role of the Baha ’í  Scholar in Defending the Faith’.  Associate.  Association
for Baha ’í  Studies English-Speaking Europe, London.  2001 Winter/Spring.  Last
accessed 30 September 2021 https://Baha i-library.com/afnan_scholar_defending_faith
__________.   The Invocation “Is There Any Remover of Difficulties Save God...” (trans. Adib
Masumian). Safíniy-i-‘Irfán, vol. 9 (2006), pp. 263–64.  Available at: https://bahai-
library.com/pdf/a/afnan_masumian_remover_difficulties.pdf
Amanat, Abbas.  ‘The Persian Bayan and the Shaping of the Babi Renewal’.  Religious Texts
in Iranian Languages (eds F. Vahman & C. V. Pedersen), pp. 337–50.  Det Kgl.  Danske
Videnskabemes Selskab, Copenhagen.  2007.
__________.  Resurrection and Renewal:  The Making of the Bábí Movement in Iran, 1844–1850.
Cornell University Press, 1989.
__________.  ‘The Shaping of the Babi Community:  Merchants, Artisans, and Others’.  In The
Báb and the Bábí Community of Iran (ed. Fereydun Vahman), pp. 101–150.  OneWorld
Academic.  2020.
Arnold, Matthew.  ‘A Persian Passion Play’.  The Cornhill Magazine, vol. 24, p. 668.  London.
1871.
The Ba b.  Selections from the Writings of the Báb.  Baha ’í  World Centre.  1982.
Bahá’í Prayers:  A Selection of Prayers Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill.  1991.

Bibliography
The Bahá’í World, An International Record, vol. XIII (1954–1963).  Haifa, Baha ’í  World
Center, Haifa.  1970.
Bahá’í World Faith:  Selected Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.  Baha ’í  Publishing
Trust, Wilmette, Ill.  1976.
Baha ’u’lla h.  Days of Remembrance:  Selections from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh for Bahá’í
Holy
Days.

www.bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/
bahaullah/days-
remembrance.  2017.
__________.  Epistle to the Son of the Wolf.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill.  1988.
__________.  Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, Wilmette,
Ill.  1990.
__________.  Kitáb-i-Badí‘.  Baha ’í -Verlag, 2008.  (Provisional tr. by Necati Alkan & Adib
Masumian.)
__________.  The Kitáb-i-Aqdas.  Baha ’í  World Centre, Haifa.  1992.
__________.  The Kitáb-i-Íqán.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill.  1989.
__________.  Prayers and Meditations.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill.  1987.
__________.  The Summons of the Lord of Hosts.  Baha ’í  World Centre, 2002.
__________.  The Tabernacle of Unity.  Bahá’í World Centre.  2006.
__________.  Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed After the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust,
Wilmette, Ill.  1988.
Balyuzi, H. M.  The Báb:  The Herald of the Day of Days.  George Ronald, Oxford.  1973.
__________.  Edward Granville Browne and the Bahá’í Faith.  George Ronald, Oxford.  1970.
__________.  Eminent Bahá’ís in the Time of Bahá’u’lláh.  George Ronald, Oxford.  1986.
__________.  Muh ammad and the Course of Islam.  George Ronald, Oxford.  1976.
__________.  Khadí jih Bagum: The Wife of the Ba b. Oxford: George Ronald. 1981.
Barney, Laura Clifford.  God’s Heroes:  A Drama in Five Acts.  Kegan Paul, London.  1910.
Barrett, David B., Kurian, George T. & Johnson, Todd M. (2001).  ‘World Summary’.  In World
Christian Encyclopedia:  A comparative survey of churches and religions in the modern
world (2nd ed.).  Oxford University Press, New York.  2001.
Bays, Daniel H.  A New History of Christianity in China.  John Wiley & Sons.  2011.
Behmardi, Vahid & McCants, William.  ‘A Stylistic Analysis of the Ba b’s Writings’.  Online
Journal of Bahá’í Studies, 114(1), pp. 114–136.  2007.  Available from https://bahai-
library.com/pdf/b/behmardi_stylistic_ analysis.pdf
Berger, Peter L.  From Sect to Church:  A Sociological Interpretation of the Baha’i Movement.
PhD dissertation, Faculty of Political and Social Science of the New School for Social
Research (New York City).  1954.
Bloomfield, Lady Sara.  The Chosen Highway.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill.  1940.
Bois, Jules.  ‘The New Religions of America, vol. III:  Babism and Bahaism’.  The Forum
(Concord, N.H.), vol. 74 (1 July 1925), pp. 1–10.
Boyce, Mary & Grenet, F.  A History of Zoroastrianism:  Zoroastrianism under Macedonian
and Roman Rule.  Brill.  2015.
Browne, E. G.  ‘The Ba bí s of Persia.  Vol. II:  Their Literature and Doctrines’.  The Journal of
the Royal Asiatic Society of Great Britain and Ireland, New Series, Vol. 21, No. 4 (October
1889), pp. 881–1009.  Cambridge University.  Last retrieved:  30 June 2022:
https://www.jstor.org/stable/25208956
__________.  ‘Introduction to Nuqtat-al-Kaf, and Index and Concordance to the Persian
Baya n’.  In Kitab-i Nuqtat al-Kaf:  Being the Earliest History of the Babis.  E. J. Brill,
Leiden.  1910.
__________.  Materials for the Study of the Bábí Religion.  Cambridge University Press.  1918.
__________.  New History (Tarikh-i-Jadid) of Mirza Ali Muhammad the Bab.  Philo Press,
Amsterdam.  1893.
__________.  A Traveller’s Narrative.  Baha ’í  Publishing Committee, New York.  1980.
Brown, Kevin.  Creation:  The Nature of God and the Creation of the Universe in Bahá’í

Index
Cosmology,
2003.

Last
retrieved
at:

https://bahai-
library.com/brown_creation_encyclopedia
__________.  Selections from the Bahá'í Writings and from Shaykh Aḥmad on the Seven Stages
of Creation (provisional trs).  Last retrieved 30 July 2022 at https://bahai-
library.com/pdf/b/brown_seven_stages_creation.pdf
Buck, Cristopher.  ‘The Identity of the S a bi’u n:  An Historical Quest’.  The Muslim World,
July/Oct. 1984, pp. 172–186.  https://bahai-library.com/buck_ identity_sabiuns.
__________.  Paradise and Paradigm:  Key Symbols in Persian Christianity and the Bahá’í Faith.
State University of New York Press.  1999.
__________.  Symbol and Secret:  Qur’an Commentary in Bahá’u’lláh’s Kitáb-i-Íqán.  Vol. 7.
Kalima t Press, Los Angeles.  1995.
Bultmann, Rudolf.  The Gospel of John:  A Commentary.  Westminster Press, Philadelphia.
1971.
Carpenter, Joseph Estlin.  Comparative Religion.  London:  Williams and Norgate.  Home
University Library of Modern Knowledge.  1910.
Cheyne, T. K. & Black, J. S. (eds).  Encyclopaedia Biblica:  A Critical Dictionary of the Literary,
Political and Religious History, the Archaeology, Geography and Natural History of the
Bible.  Adam and Charles Black, London.  1899.
Cheyne, Thomas Kelly.  The Reconciliation of Races and Religions.  Adam and Charles Black,
London.  1914.
The Compilation of Compilations.  Vol. II.  Baha ’í  Publications Australia, Maryborough,
Victoria.  2000.
A Compilation on Women.  Compiled by the Research Department of the Universal House
of Justice.  January 1986.
Corte s, Julio.  El Corán.  Editorial Nacional, Madrid.  1980.
Curzon, George N.  Persia and the Persian Question.  Frank Cass, London.  1966.
Danesh, Roshan.  The Dimensions of Bahá’í Law.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill.
2019.
Day, Michael V.  Journey to a Mountain:  The Story of the Shrine of the Báb.  George Ronald,
Oxford.  2017.
De Bellaigue, Christopher.  The Islamic Enlightenment:  The Modern Struggle between Faith
and Reason.  Liveright-Vintage.  2018.
Douglas, Martin.  ‘The Baha ’í  Faith in its Second Century’.  In The Baháʼí Faith and Islam
(ed. Heshmat Moayyad), proceedings of a symposium, McGill University, 23–25 March
1984, pp. 57–72.
Encyclopædia Britannica.  Worldwide Adherents of All Religions by Six Continental Areas,
Mid-2002.  Encyclopædia Britannica.  2002.
Eschraghi, Armin.  ‘From Ba bí  Movement to Baha ’í  Faith:  Some Observations About the
Evolution of a New Religion’.  In The Báb and the Bábí Community of Iran, pp. 326–406
(ed. Fereydun Vahman), OneWorld Academic.  2020.
__________.  ‘Promised One (maw‘u d) or Imaginary One (mawhu m)?  Some Notes on Twelver
Shí ‘í  Mahdí  Doctrine and its Discussion in Writings of Baha ʾ Alla h’.  In Unity in Diversity,
pp. 111–135 (ed. Orkhan Mir-Kasimov), Brill.  2014.
__________.  ‘Undermining the Foundations of Orthodoxy:  Some Notes on the Ba b’s Sharia
Law (Sacred Law)’.  In A Most Noble Pattern (eds Todd Lawson & Omid
Ghaemmaghami), pp. 223–247.  George Ronald, Oxford.  2012.
Esslemont, John.  Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill.  1980.
Faizi, Abu’l-Qasim.  ‘Explanation of the Symbol of the Greatest Name’.  In Conqueror of
Hearts.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, New Delhi, India.  1968.  There is also a booklet with
the same title, BPT, India, nd.
Faizi, Naysan & Zohre.  Penned by A. Q. Faizi.  George Ronald, Oxford.  2021.

Bibliography
Fa d il Ma zandara ní , Asadu’lla h.  ‘The Life of the Ba b’.  Star of the West, 14:7, 1938, pp. 193–
202.
Fala hi-Skuce, Houri.  A Radiant Gem:  A Biography of Jináb-i-Fáḍil-i-Shirází.  Trafford.  2004.
Ferne e, Tadd Graham.  ‘Modernity and Nation-making in India, Turkey and Iran’.
International Journal of Asian Studies, 9(1), 2012, pp. 71–97.
Fox, Carolyn Sparey.  Seeking a State of Heaven.  George Ronald, Oxford.  2018.
Furutan, Ali-Akbar. The story of my heart. George Ronald Publisher,.1984.
Giachery, Ugo.  Shoghi Effendi:  Recollections.  George Ronald, Oxford.  1973.
Gail, Marzieh.  Arches of the years.  George Ronald, Oxford.  1991.
__________.  Six Lessons on Islám.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, Wilmette, IL.  1973.
Ghaemmaghami, Omid. “The Hand of God is not Chained up”. In The Báb and the Bábí
Community of Iran (ed. Fereydun Vahman), pp. 406–421. OneWorld Academic. 2020.
Hamada ní , Mí rza  H useyn.  The Táríkh-i-Jadíd or New History of Mírzá ‘Alí Muḥammad the
Báb.  Tr. E. G. Browne.  Cambridge University Press.  1893.  Last retrieved 30 September
2021:  https://Baha i-library.com/hamadani_ browne_tarikh_jadid
Handal, Boris.  El Concurso en Lo Alto.  Editorial PROPACEB, Lima, 1985.
__________.  ‘Finding the Lamp:  My Baha ’í  Experience’.  In Catholics and Catholicism in
contemporary Australia:  challenges and achievements (ed. Abe Ata).  David Lovell
Publishing.  2021.
__________.  A Trilogy of Consecration:  The Courier, the Historian and the Missionary.
IngramSpark.  2020.
__________.  Varqá and Rúḥu’lláh:  101 Stories of Bravery on the Move.  IngramSpark.  2020.
__________.  The Khamsis:  A Cradle of True Gold.  IngramSpark.  2020.
__________.  Muh ammad, Profeta de Dios.  Editorial Baha ’í  del Peru.  2020.
Hatcher, John S.  The Purpose of Physical Reality.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill.
2005.
Hatcher, John S. and Hemmat, Amrollah.  The Poetry of Ṭáhirih.  George Ronald, Oxford.
2002.
H aydar ‘Alí  Usku ’í .  Ḥaji Mírzá.  Monsieur Nicolas—the French:  Extracts from Tarikh-i
Azarbeyijan, p. 102.  Tr. Sepehr Manuchehri.  1950.  Last retrieved 30 June 2022 at
https://bahai-library.com/manuchehri_tarikh_azarbeyijan_ nicolas
Hornby, Helen.  Lights of Guidance.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, India.  1988.
Hume, Robert.  The World’s Living Religions.  Prentice Hall, Texas.  1978.
Immortal Youth:  A Tribute to the Life and Station of the Báb.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust,
Wilmette, Ill.  Also a Kindle Edition.  2019.
Kalpakian, Jack.  ‘Representing the Unpresentable:  Historical Images of National Reform—
From the Qajars to the Islamic Republic of Iran’.  In Digest of Middle East Studies, vol.
17, no. 2, pp. 162–166.  Fall 2008.
Kazemi, Farshid.  ‘Mysteries of Alast:  The Realm of Subtle Entities (‘Ā lam-i dharr) and the
Primordial Covenant in the Babi-Baha’i Writings’.  Bahá’í Studies Review, 15, 2009, pp.
39–66.
Keddie, Nikki R. & Yann, Richard.  ‘Continuity and Change Under the Qajars:  1796–1890’.
In Modern Iran: Roots and Results of Revolution, pp. 37–57.  Yale University Press, 2006.
www.jstor.org/stable/j.ctt5vkwwc.9.
Khadem, Javidukht.  Zikrullah Khadem:  The Itinerant Hand of the Cause of God.  Champion
Builder Books, Wilmette, Ill.  1990.
Kha va ri, Ishra q.  Má’ida-yi Ásmání, vol 2, p. 16–7.  (ed. ‘Abd al-Hamí d).  Tehran.  BE 129/1972–
1973.
Lambden, Stephen N.  ‘An Episode in the Childhood of Sayyid Alí  Muh ammad the Ba b’.  In
Iran:  Studies in Bábí and Bahá’í History, vol. 3 (ed. Peter Smith), pp. 1–32.  Kalima t Press,
Los Angeles.  1986.
__________.  ‘From a Primal Point to an Archetypical Book:  Literary Trajectories through

Index
Selected Writings of the Bab (1819–1850)’.  In The Báb and the Bábí Community of Iran,
pp. 151–234 (ed. Fereydun Vahman).  OneWorld Academic.  2020.
__________.  ‘The Messianic Roots of Babi-Baha ’í  Globalism’.  In Bahá’í and Globalisation, pp.
17–34 (ed. Margit Warburg).  Aarhus University Press, Denmark.  2005.
__________.  ‘The Sinaitic Mysteries:  Notes on Moses/Sinai Motifs in Ba bí  and Baha ’í
Scripture’.  In Studies in the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, vol. 5, pp. 65–184 (ed. Moojan
Momen).  George Ronald, Oxford.  1982.
__________.  Some Aspects of Isrá‘íliyyát and the Emergence of the Bábí-Bahá’í Interpretation
of the Bible.  PhD dissertation.  University of Newcastle upon Tyne.  2002.
Losch, R.R. The many faces of faith: A guide to world religions and Christian traditions.
Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing, 2002.
Lawson, Todd.  Gnostic apocalypse and Islam:  Qur’an, exegesis, messianism and the literary
origins of the Babi religion.  Routledge.  2012.
__________.  ‘Interpretation as Revelation:  The Qur’a n Commentary of the Ba b, Sayyid ‘Alí
Muh ammad Shí ra zí  (1819–1850)’.  In The Báb and the Bábí Community of Iran (ed.
Fereydun Vahman), pp. 235–274.  OneWorld Academic, 2020.
__________.  ‘The terms ‘Remembrance’ (dhikr) and ‘Gate’ (ba b) in the Ba b’s Commentary on
the Sura of Joseph’.  In Studies in Honour of the Late Hasan M. Balyuzi (ed. Moojan
Momen), pp. 1–64.  Kalimat Press, Los Angeles.  1988.
Ma‘ani, Baharieh Rouhani & Ewing, Sovaida Ma‘ani.  Laws of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas—The Laws
of Bahá’u’lláh Placed in Their Historical Context.  George Ronald, Oxford.  2004.
Ma‘ani, Baharieh Rouhani.  Leaves of the Twin Divine Trees.  George Ronald, Oxford.  2008.
MacEoin, Denis.  The Messiah of Shíráz:  Studies in Early and Middle Babism.  Vol. 3.  Brill.
2009.
__________.  Rituals in Babism and Baha’ism.  British Academy Press.  1994.
__________.  The Sources for Early Bábí Doctrine and History:  A Survey.  E. J. Brill, Leiden.  1992.
McLean, Jack.  John the Baptist and Bahá’í Prophetic Categories:  An Atypical Paradigm, 2012.
Last retrieved 24 July 2022:  https://bahai-library.com/mclean_john_baptist
Mangol, Bayat.  Mysticism and dissent:  socioreligious thought in Qajar Iran.  Syracuse
University Press.  2000.
Marouti, Andreh.  ‘Infrastructure for Trade Routes in Western Azerbaijan, Iran:
Caravanserais, Bridges, and Fortresses’.  In Architectural Heritage in the Western
Azerbaijan Province of Iran, pp. 229–258.  Eds Maurizio Boriani, Mariacristina
Giambruno.  Springer, Cham, Switzerland.  2021.
Marques, Jose  Luis.  Cartas a un Buen Católico.  Editorial Baha ’í  de Espan a, Madrid.  1987
Mehrabkhani, Ruhu’llah.  Mulla Husayn:  Disciple at Dawn.  Kalima t Press, Los Angeles.
1987.
__________.  ‘Some Notes on Fundamental Principles:  Western Scholarship and the Religion
of the Ba b’.  Bahá’í Studies Bulletin, vol. 2, No. 4 (March 1984), pp. 22–43.
Mihrshahi, Robin.  A Wondrous New Day:  The Numerology of Creation and ‘All Things’ in
the
Badí‘
calendar,
2013.

Last
retrieved:

https://bahai-
library.com/mihrshahi_wondrous_new_day
Moayyad, Heshmat.  ‘The historical relationship between the Baha ’í  Faith and Islam’.  In
The Bahá’í Faith and Islam, pp. 73–92 (ed. Heshmat Moayyad), proceedings of a
symposium, McGill University, 23–25 March 1984.
Mohammadhosseini, Nosratollah.  The Báb as a Primary Source of Bahá’u’lláh’s Teachings,
2020.  Last retrieved 30 September 2021:  https:// Baha iteachings.org/the-Ba b-
primary-source-of-Baha ullahs-teachings/
__________.  ‘The Commentary on the Sura of Joseph’.  In A Most Noble Pattern (eds Todd
Lawson & Omid Ghaemmaghami).  George Ronald, Oxford.  2012.
Momen, Moojan.  The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions, 1844–1944:  Some Contemporary Western
Accounts.  George Ronald, Oxford.  1981.

Bibliography
__________.  ‘The God of Baha ’u’lla h’.  In The Bahá’í Faith and the World’s Religions (ed.
Moojan Momen).  George Ronald, 2005, pp. 1–38.  Last retrieved 30 July 2022 at:
https://bahai-library.com/momen_god_bahaullah
__________.  ‘Relativism:  A Basis for Baha ’í  Metaphysics’.  In Studies in Honor of the Late
Hasan M. Balyuzi (ed. M. Momen).  Kalima t Press, 1988.
__________.  Selections from the Writings of E. G. Browne on the Bábí and Bahá’í Religions.
George Ronald, Oxford.  1987.
__________.  The Star Tablet of the Báb.  British Library, 2019.  Last retrieved 30 June 2022 at:
https://blogs.bl.uk/asian-and-african/2019/10/the-star-tablet-of-the-
bab.html#_edn3
__________.  ‘The Trial of Mulla  ‘Ala  Bast a mí :  A Combined Sunní -Shí ‘í  Fatwa  Against the Ba b’.
Iran 20 (1), 1982, pp. 113–143.
Momen, Wendi (ed.).  A Basic Bahá’í Dictionary.  Oxford, George Ronald, Oxford.  1989.
Muha jir, I. F.  Dr Muhajir:  Hand of the Cause of God, Knight of Bahá’u’lláh.  Baha ’í  Publishing
Trust, London.  1992.
Muh ammad-‘Alí y-i-Salma ní , Usta d.  My Memories of Bahá’u’lláh.  Tr. Marzieh Gail.  Kalima t
Press, Los Angeles.  1982.
Mohammadhosseini, Nosratollah.  “The Commentary on the Sura of Joseph”.  In A Most
Noble Pattern, pp. 6–27.  Eds Todd Lawson & Omid Ghaemmaghami.  George Ronald,
Oxford.  2012.
Nabí l-i-A‘z am.  The Dawn-Breakers:  Nabíl’s Narrative of the Early Days of the Bahá’í
Revelation.  Wilmette, Ill., Baha ’í  Publishing Trust.  1970.
Nash, Geoffrey.  ‘Aryan and Semite in Ernest Renan’s and Matthew Arnold’s Quest for the
Religion of Modernity’.  Religion & Literature, pp. 25–50.  2014.
Necati, Alkan.  Dissent and Heterodoxy in the Late Ottoman Empire.  Gorgias Press.  2010.
Newhall, Muriel Ives Barrow.  Mother’s Stories:  Recollections of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 6.  1970.
Last retrieved 30 June 2022 at https://bahai-library.com/ives/ stories/MSTORIES.PDF
Nicolas, A. L. M.  Le Beyan Arabe.  Le Livre Sacre du Babysme.  Ernest Leroux, Paris.  1905.
__________.  Le Béyan Persan.  4 vols.  Librairie Paul Geuthner, Paris.  1911–1914.
__________.  Le Livre des Sept Preuves de la Mission du Bab [‘The Book of Seven Proofs of the
Mission of the Bab’], Paris, 1902.  A translation of the Dala ’il-i-Sab‘ih (“The Seven
Proofs”) by the Ba b.
__________.  Siyyèd Ali-Mohammed, dit le Bâb.  Dujarric, Paris.  1905.
Osterhammel, Ju rgen.  The Transformation of the World.  A Global History of the Nineteenth
Century.  Princeton University Press.  2014.
Pe rigord, Emily McBride.  Translation of French Foot-Notes of the Dawn-Breakers.  Baha ’í
Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill.  1939.
Phelps, Steven.  A Partial Inventory of the Works of the Central Figures of the Bahá’í Faith.
Version
2.02,
November
2020.

Last
retrieved
September
2022,
http://blog.loomofreality.org/.
Quinn, Sholeh.  ‘Muhammad Shah Qajar in Four Early Writings of the Bab’.  In A Most Noble
Pattern, pp. 160–174 (eds Todd Lawson & Omid Ghaemmaghami).  George Ronald,
Oxford.  2012.
Rabbani, Ahang.  Witness to Shaykh Tabarsí:  The Narrative of Hájí Nasír Qazviní, 2007.
Available at https://bahai-library.com/pdf/r/rabbani_narrative_haji_ qazvini.pdf
__________.  ‘The Conversion of the Great-Uncle of the Ba b’.  World Order, Vol. 20, No, 3, 1999,
pp. 19–38.
Rafati, Vahid.  ‘The Development of Shaykhí  Thought in Shi‘i Islam’.  In The Bahá’í Faith
and Islam, pp. 93–110 (ed. H. Moayyad).  Proceedings of a Symposium at McGill
University (23–25 March 1984.  Baha ’í  Studies Publications, Ottawa.  1990.
Ram, Harsha.  ‘Literature as World Revolution:  Velimir Khlebnikov’s Zangezi and the
Utopian Geopoetics of the Russian Avant-garde’.  In Glaser, Amelia M. & Lee, Steven S.

Index
(eds).  Comintern Aesthetics, pp. 31–80.  University of Toronto Press.  2020.
Renan, Ernest.  The History of the Origins of Christianity.  Book II.  Grand Rapids, MI.
Christian Classics Ethereal Library.  1890.
Ruhe-Schoen, Janet.  Rejoice in My Gladness:  The Life of Ṭáhirih.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust,
London.  2011.
Ruiz-Dome nec, Jose  Enrique & Arjomandi, Arash.  The Báb o la Puerta a un Mundo Mejor.
Editorial Baha ’í  de Espan a.  2019.
Sadri, Ahmad & Ferdowsi, Abolqasem.  Shahnameh:  The Epic of the Persian Kings.  Tr.
Hamid Rahmanian.  Quantuck Lane Press.  2013.
Saiedi, Nader.  Gate of the Heart:  Understanding the Writings of the Báb.  Association for
Baha ’í  Studies and Wilfrid Laurier UP.  2008.
__________.  Introduction to the Tablet to Báqir.  Last retrieved 30 September 2021 at
https://user-hrqc9mo.cld.bz/Tablet-to-Mulla -Baqir-Translation
__________.  Logos and Civilization.  University Press of Maryland.  2000.
__________.  Modernity in the Writings of the Báb.  Last retrieved 30 September 2021 at
https://user-hrqc9mo.cld.bz/Modernity-in-the-Writings-of-the-Ba b/1
__________.  ‘Phenomenology of Occultation and Prayer in the Ba b’s S ah í fiy-i-Ja‘farí yyih’.  In
A Most Noble Pattern (eds Todd Lawson and Omid Ghaemmaghami), pp. 212–213.
George Ronald, Oxford.  2012.
__________.  Reconstruction of the Concept of the Human Being in the Writings of the Ba b, p. 4.
2019.  Available at https://user-hrqc9mo.cld.bz/Human-Being-in-the-Writings-of-the-
Ba b
__________.  Tafsír-i-Súriy-i-Kawthar (Commentary on the Súrih of Abundance).  (Provisional
tr. Nader Saiedi.).  Last retrieved 20 September 2021 at https://user-
hrqc9mo.cld.bz/Translation-Commentary-Surih-of-Kawthar
__________.  ‘The Worldview of the Ba b:  The Reconstruction of Religion and Society’.  In The
Báb and the Bábí Community of Iran (ed. Fereydun Vahman), pp. 79–100.  OneWorld
Academic.  2021.
Sears, William.  Thief in the Night.  George Ronald, Oxford.  1961.
Seow, J. E. H.  The Pure in Heart:  Historical Development of the Bahá’í Faith in China,
Southeast Asia, and Far East.  Baha ’í  Publications, Australia.  1991.
Sharon, Moshe.  Notes and Observations on some of the Writings of the Báb.  The Hebrew
University of Jerusalem.  2013.  Posted at web.archive.org/web/ 20170315235354 and
www.hum.huji.ac.il/english/units.php?cat=3666&incat =3479
Shoghi Effendi.  Bahá’í Administration.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill.  1974.
__________.  Citadel of Faith.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill.  1980.
__________.  Dawn of a New Day.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, New Delhi.  1970.
__________.  Directives from the Guardian.  India & Hawaii.  1973.
__________.  God Passes By.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill.  1979.
__________.  Messages of Shoghi Effendi to the Indian Subcontinent:  1923–1957.  Baha ’í
Publication Trust, New Delhi.  1970.
__________.  The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, Wilmette, Ill.  1974.
__________.  Unfolding Destiny.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust, London.  1981.
Smith, Peter.  The Bábí and Bahá’í Religions:  from Messianic Shi‘ism to a World Religion.
Cambridge University Press.  1987.
__________.  ‘The History of the Ba bí  and Baha ’í  Faiths’.  In The World of the Bahá’í Faith
(Robert Stockman, ed.), pp. 501–512.  Routledge, Oxfordshire, UK.  2022.
Star of the West.  US Baha ’í  newsletter, 1910–1935.  Reprinted in 8 vols, George Ronald,
Oxford.  1978.  See https://bahai.works/Star_of_the_West
Taherzadeh, Adib.  The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.  Vol. 1:  ‘Akká 1853–63.  George Ronald,
Oxford.  1974.
__________.  The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.  Vol. 2:  Adrianople 1863–68.  George Ronald,

Bibliography
Oxford.  1977.
__________.  The Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.  Vol. 3:  ‘Akka  1868–77.  George Ronald, Oxford.
1987.
__________.  The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh.  George Ronald, Oxford.  1992.
Terry, Peter.  Translation into English of A.L.M. Nicolas’ French translation and notes of
Mírzá Siyyid ‘Alí Muḥammad Shírází, The Báb’s Bayán Arabe originally written in Arabic,
1980.  Last retrieved 30 September 2021:
https://Baha i-library.com/pdf/b/Ba b_Baya n_arabic_terry.pdf
__________.  A Prophet in Modern Times.  Lulu Publications.  2008.
__________.  A Thematic Analysis and Summary of the Persian Bayán.  2015.  Last retrieved 30
June 2022 at https://bahai-library.com/pdf/t/terry_analysis_ summary_bayan.pdf
Tillyer, D. B.  Union with God:  The Teaching of St. John of the Cross.  Mowbray, London.  1984.
Townshend, George.  Christ and Bahá'u'lláh.  George Ronald, Oxford.  1957.
The Universal House of Justice.  A Compilation on Women.  The Research Department,
Haifa.  1986.
__________.  Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1968–1973.  Baha ’í  Publishing Trust,
Wilmette, Ill.  1976.
__________.  The Kitáb-i-Aqdas.  Baha ’í  World Centre, Haifa.  1992.
__________.  ‘Whether Baha ’u’lla h and the Ba b Met, Indications in the Writings and Historical
Records Relative to the Question’, 1985.  ‘Andalíb Magazine, 1985, vol. V, no. 17, pp. 20–
21.  Prepared by the Research Department and later translated into English.  Last
retrieved 3 September 2022 at https://bahai-library.com/uhj_meeting_bab_bahaullah
Younghusband, Francis.  The Gleam.  John Murray, London.  1923.
Van Voorst, Robert.  Jesus Outside the New Testament:  An Introduction to the Ancient
Evidence.  Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing.  2000.
Vahman, Fereydun.  ‘The Ba b:  A Sun in a Night not Followed by Dawn’.  In The Báb and the
Bábí Community of Iran (ed. Fereydun Vahman), pp. 1–78.  OneWorld Academic.  2020.
__________.  ‘The Conversion of Zoroastrians to the Baha ’í  Faith’.  In The Bahá’ís of Iran:  Socio
Historical-Studies, pp. 44–62 (eds Dominic Parviz Brookshaw and Seena B. Fazel).
Routledge.  2012.
Waters, Allan. Ḥuqúqu'lláh, the Right of God. Victoria, Australia: Baha 'í  Publications
Australia, 2012.
Weinberg, Robert.  The Primal Point.  George Ronald, Oxford.  2019.
Zabihi-Moghaddam, Siyamak.  ‘The Babi-state conflict at Shaykh Tabarsi’.  Iranian Studies,
35:1–3, pp. 87–112.  2002.  Last retrieved 30 October 2021 from https://bahai-
library.com/pdf/z/zabihi-moghaddam_babi_conflict_ article.pdf


Index
Abjad, xix, 189
Abraham, xxviii, 1, 12, 36, 39, 48, 65, 175,
217, 219, 222
Ádharbayján, 60, 92, 93, 216, 227
Afnán, xiii, 54, 83, 84, 90, 156, 172, 175,
176, 227, 228, 232, 271, 293
Aḥmad son of the Báb, xiii, xxi, 6, 26, 54,
62, 174, 175, 229, 295
Arabic Bayán, 6, 7, 8, 16, 83, 84, 86, 89,
155, 159, 160, 164, 166, 169, 210, 213,
224, 227, 244, 245, 247, 248, 249, 257,
262, 264, 268, 270, 272, 274, 275, 276,
279, 291
Báb The. Spiritual and mystical teachings
Acceptance of deeds depend on God,
Avoid criticizing others, 155
Being and doing, 127
Blessing on homes of the believers,
Cleanliness, 128, 153
Consideration, 128
Contentment, 128
Debts of faith, 135
Deeds are to be done for the sake of
God, 135
Destiny and free choice, 136
Discernment, 128
Education, 162, 305
Equality, 162
Essence of knowledge, 136
Essence of knowledge and faith, 136
Faith, xi, xii, xiii, xiv, xix, xxi, xxiii,
xxiv, xxvii, xxx, xxxi, 2, 5, 6, 8, 9,
10, 11, 13, 14, 16, 18, 29, 43, 44, 49,
74, 77, 83, 87, 90, 95, 96, 98, 99,
101, 102, 103, 105, 109, 111, 112, 117,
118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123, 124, 125,
127, 129, 135, 142, 150, 153, 159, 165,
167, 168, 171, 172, 175, 178, 190, 204,
205, 206, 214, 215, 216, 219, 220,
223, 224, 225, 226, 228, 229, 231,
234, 235, 238, 240, 244, 245, 252,
260, 261, 267, 269, 271, 276, 277,
278, 280, 281, 283, 286, 288, 289,
290, 293, 294, 295, 297, 298, 299,
300, 305
Family, 4, 170, 175
Fasting, 150, 268
Fear of God, 129
Firmness, 129, 137
Firmness in the Covenant, 137
Forgiveness, 130
Fruit of science is recognition, 137
God is the Most Generous, 137
Good character, 130
Guiding and teaching others, 157
Harmony, 130
Heart of the true believer, 137
Humility, 130
Inner being, 138
Joy and radiance, 130
Kindness, 131
Kindness to animals, 131
Learning the Word of God by heart,
Marriage, xviii, xxi, 151, 270
Martyrs, 64, 139
Miracles, 69, 139, 293
Moderation, 131
Obedience, 131, 158, 222
Paradise and hell, 139
Parents, 164
Patience, 131
Peace, xxvii, 1, 47, 132, 222, 239, 241,
284, 293
Perfection, 132, 166, 216, 241
Personal speech, 132
Piety, 132
Poetry, 8, 139, 296
Potentialities of the new Day of God,
Prayer for the believers, 140
Purity, 132, 287
Refinement, 133
Relying on God, 152
Responding to requests and
correspondence, 157
Reward and punishment, 140
Riches should not be a barrier, 140
Righteousness, 286
Rumours, 74
Seeking knowledge, 164

Index
Servitude, 133, 141
Spiritual blindness and deafness, 141
Steadfastness, 133
Submission to the Will of God, 141
Tests from God, 141
True immortality, 142
Trust in God, 134
Unity, 11, 19, 24, 92, 101, 118, 135, 142,
157, 165, 191, 203, 245, 279, 287,
291, 293, 294, 295
Women, 270, 295, 300
Worship, 134, 167
Badasht, xxi, 13, 90
Búshihr, xvii, xxi, 30, 58, 62, 291, 292
Calendar, xiii, 164
Chihríq, xvii, xxi, xxii, 13, 60, 76, 92, 93,
110, 283, 289, 291, 292
China, 234, 294, 299
Christ, xix, xxiii, 1, 5, 6, 11, 44, 45, 48, 52,
54, 63, 97, 102, 110, 117, 123, 235, 239,
286, 300
Christians, 6, 11, 44, 50, 52, 61, 104, 106,
117, 123, 153, 162, 164, 206, 219, 221,
249, 263, 289
Elijah, xxviii, xxix, 5, 236
Fárs, 227, 236, 293
Fáṭimih Bagum mother of the Báb, xiii,
Gobineau Arthur Comte de, 2, 3, 57
Hadiths, 127
Haifa, xxiv, xxviii, 237, 293, 294, 300
Ḥájí Mírzá Áqásí, xii, 80, 110, 292
He/Him Whom God shall make Manifest,
xiii, xiv, xix, xxxii, 15, 18, 36, 76, 87,
88, 89, 90, 94, 103, 164, 165, 178, 179,
180, 181, 182, 185, 186, 187, 190, 191,
193, 201, 202, 203, 204, 206, 209, 210,
211, 212, 213, 214, 215, 216, 217, 226, 227,
232, 238, 243, 251, 257, 259, 260, 261,
262, 264, 265, 267, 268, 270, 271, 277,
279, 286
He/HIm Whom God shall make manifest,
xxiii, 15, 87, 184, 187, 189, 190, 192,
203, 204, 205, 211, 213, 215, 265
House of the Báb, xvii, 280
Imám Ḥusayn, 59, 63, 81, 170, 264
India, 1, 4, 112, 234, 284, 295, 296, 299
Iraq, xxii, xxviii, 59, 81, 111, 227, 238, 263,
Iṣfahán, xxi, 60, 61, 76, 118, 291, 292
Islam, xii, xxvii, xxix, 3, 4, 5, 8, 24, 28, 45,
58, 70, 80, 104, 112, 117, 122, 153, 165,
190, 223, 225, 227, 249, 252, 265, 267,
274, 275, 281, 282, 283, 286, 288, 289,
290, 294, 295, 297, 298
Jerusalem, xxvii, xxviii, 13, 97, 223, 263,
288, 299
Jesus, xi, xxvii, xxviii, xxix, xxx, 1, 5, 6, 9,
11, 12, 36, 37, 38, 39, 44, 46, 49, 50, 51,
52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 63, 70, 71, 76, 102,
117, 123, 127, 201, 207, 210, 217, 219,
220, 221, 223, 225, 234, 235, 245, 249,
260, 288, 300
John the Baptist, xi, xxvii, xxviii, xxix, 5,
49, 51, 52, 53, 54, 56, 210, 297
Judaism, 8, 219, 225, 244, 249, 252, 286,
Karbilá, xxi, 59, 62, 81, 264
Khadíjih Bagum wife of the Báb, xiii, xxi,
xxii, 169, 172, 173, 174, 294
Khurásán, 227
Kitáb-i-Aqdas, xiv, xxxii, 14, 74, 77, 79, 85,
86, 87, 131, 151, 153, 154, 155, 160, 161,
166, 169, 186, 192, 209, 213, 221, 224,
229, 230, 231, 232, 233, 242, 243, 244,
245, 246, 247, 248, 249, 250, 251, 257,
258, 259, 260, 263, 264, 265, 266, 267,
268, 269, 270, 271,272, 273, 274, 275,
276, 277, 278, 279, 280, 281, 282, 283,
284, 285, 294, 297, 300
Kitáb-i-Asmá’, 93, 164, 291
Kitáb-i-Íqán, 6, 10, 11, 16, 18, 50, 51, 64, 90,
99, 100, 101, 104, 123, 228, 261, 294,
Kitáb-i-Panj Sha’n, 93
Kulayn, xxi
Laws Bábí-Bahá’í
Age of maturity, 274
Badí‘ calendar, xxiv, 15, 162, 165, 166,
229, 268, 286, 287, 297
Burial, xiv, 275
Confession of sins, 246
Congregational prayers, 8
Death penalty, xiv, 257
Dietary injunctions, 243, 245
Fasting, 150, 268
Gambling, 160, 161
Naw-Rúz, 165, 229, 251, 268, 269, 286
Pilgrimage, 278, 280, 281
Prayer for the Dead, 244, 275, 276
Pulpits, 243
Qibla, 226, 268, 278, 279

Index
Talismans, xv, 283
Tattoos, xv, 282, 285
Theft, 250
Tobacco, xv, 284
Women, 270, 295, 300
Laws, Ba bí -Baha ’í
Prohibition to ask questions to Him
Whom God shall make manifest,
Lebanon, xxviii
Letters of the Living, xxi, 55, 66, 86, 88,
92, 97, 190, 209, 213, 217, 226, 265, 277
Máh-Kú, ix, xii, xxi, 13, 60, 76, 79, 83, 90,
91, 92, 108, 110, 224, 263, 265, 283, 289,
291, 292
Mázindarán, 210, 227
Mecca, xix, xx, xxi, 8, 50, 60, 97, 104, 120,
217, 223, 234, 235, 236, 260, 263, 278,
Millerites, 5
Miracles, 69, 139, 293
Mírzá Abu’l-Faḍl, 69, 74, 216, 217, 287
Mírzá Yaḥyá, xix, 210, 217
Moses, xxiii, xxviii, 1, 6, 7, 9, 36, 38, 46,
48, 65, 70, 76, 115, 123, 191, 217, 219,
220, 221, 222, 286, 297
Mount Carmel, xviii, xxviii, 56, 236, 279
Muḥammad, 2, xii, xix, xx, xxi, xxiii, xxvii,
1, 4, 6, 9, 10, 11, 23, 36, 38, 43, 44, 45,
46, 48, 50, 52, 54, 56, 58, 61, 63, 64, 70,
71, 72, 73, 74, 76, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 90,
96, 100, 104, 105, 106, 107, 109, 110, 112,
116, 117, 120, 122, 123, 127, 156, 165, 174,
175, 179, 191, 216, 217, 221, 223, 226,
227, 228, 232, 234, 235, 263, 271, 275,
283, 289, 292, 293, 294, 296, 297, 298,
300, 305
Muḥammad Sháh, xii, xxi, 11, 23, 64, 80,
90, 96, 104, 105, 106, 107, 109, 110, 116,
Mullá Ḥusayn, xxi, 55, 59, 72, 77, 79, 80,
165, 180, 226, 292
Muslims, xii, xxiii, 5, 44, 59, 70, 104, 113,
117, 122, 153, 190, 219, 221, 223, 263,
267, 275, 278
Naw-Rúz, 165, 229, 251, 268, 269, 286
New Testament, xxxii, 8, 18, 45, 48, 75,
103, 247, 300
Old Testament, 6, 15, 102, 127, 221, 225,
247, 260, 288
Ottoman Empire, 1, 104, 239, 298
Palestine, xxvii, xxviii, 239
Persian Bayán, xii, xviii, xxxii, 3, 5, 6, 7, 10,
15, 16, 46, 64, 66, 71, 72, 77, 79, 83, 84,
86, 89, 92, 94, 118, 125, 127, 131, 153,
160, 164, 167, 169, 178, 183, 186, 189,
190, 191, 192, 206, 210, 213, 217, 223,
224, 226, 227, 228, 229, 232, 243, 244,
245, 246, 247,248, 250, 257, 258, 260,
261, 262, 263, 265, 266, 267, 269, 270,
272, 273, 275, 276, 277, 278, 279, 280,
281, 282, 283, 284, 291, 294, 300
Qayyúm, 179
Quddús, xxi, 217, 218
Russia, 1, 2, 4, 239
Salmán, xi, 49, 50
Seven Martyrs of Tehran The, xxi
Sháh Bahram, 179, 286
Shaykh Aḥmad-i-Aḥsá’í, xxi, 25, 54
Shaykh Ṭabarsí upheaval, xxi, 60
Shí‘a, xx, xxiii, 59, 81, 101, 112, 125, 165,
224, 228, 249, 263
Shí‘í, xx, 5, 104, 283, 298
Shí‘í Muslim, 104
Shíráz, xxi, xxii, xxvii, xxxi, 1, 2, 3, 57, 62,
73, 76, 90, 95, 101, 173, 174, 180, 224,
234, 238, 246, 280, 291, 292, 293, 297
Shoghi Effendi, xii, xxiv, xxviii, xxix, xxxii,
2, 4, 5, 6, 8, 10, 14, 15, 16, 18, 44, 49, 51,
52, 53, 63, 70, 76, 79, 80, 81, 83, 84, 86,
87, 88, 90, 93, 94, 95, 99, 100, 101, 102,
103, 104, 107, 110, 117, 118, 125, 160, 169,
170, 172, 178, 180, 186, 189, 191, 192,
205, 209, 217, 218, 225, 226, 229, 230,
231, 232, 233, 237, 246, 257, 269, 270,
271, 277, 280, 281, 282, 283, 285, 286,
287, 289, 296, 299
Siyyid Ḥusayn, 84, 92
Siyyid Káẓim, xxi, 54
Siyyid Muḥammad Riḍá father of the Báb,
xiii, xxi, 174
Sulṭán of the Ottoman Empire, 105, 111
Syria, xxviii
Tabríz, xxi, xxii, xxvii, 8, 11, 54, 60, 124,
223, 234, 292
Ṭáhirih, 7, 8, 55, 192, 193, 226, 296, 299
Tehran, xxi, 8, 63, 109, 180, 250, 296
Torah, 221, 222, 246
Universal House of Justice The, ix, xxix,
xxxi, 2, 15, 16, 51, 75, 76, 86, 160, 165,
168, 170, 171, 209, 218, 230, 232, 234,
244, 247, 250, 258, 270, 271, 272, 273,

Index
274, 276, 278, 282, 285, 286, 289, 293,
295, 300
Ushidár-Máh, 179, 286
Vaḥíd, xxi, xxii, 73, 166
Zanján upheaval, xxi
Zoroaster, 48, 93, 286, 287, 289


About the Author
Boris Handal is a Full Professor of Education at the University of Notre Dame
Australia. He is the author of “Varqa  and Ru h u’lla h,” “Eve Nicklin, She of the Brave
Heart,” “The Khamsis, a Cradle of True Gold” and “A Trilogy of Consecration”. His
books in Spanish include El Concurso en Lo Alto and Muḥammad Profeta de Dios.
He has also written Mírzá Mihdí, The Purest Branch which has been translated to
three languages. Dr Handal has published about thirty books and articles about
the Baha ʼí  Faith and over a hundred educational academic articles.