THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION
Cultural Cleansing in Iran

THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION
Cultural Cleansing in Iran
Bahá’í International Community

THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION
Cultural Cleansing in Iran
Web site: http://question.bahai.org
Copyright 2005 Bahá’í International Community
Bahá’í International Community
866 United Nations Plaza, Suite 120
New York, NY 10017, USA

Contents
CHAPTER I: Introduction
10 The Bahá’í Faith: A global community
CHAPTER II: A Campaign of Cultural Cleansing
18 The ISRCC document
CHAPTER III: The Current Situation
26 The Bahá’í Institute for Higher Education
30 The Bahá’í community of Iran speaks for itself
44 The ongoing threat of execution
CHAPTER IV: “To kill a Bahá’í is a good deed…”
54 Hanged for teaching “Sunday school”
60 How Iran has justiﬁed the persecution
CHAPTER V: The Historical Background
72 The international response
CHAPTER VI: Conclusion and Summary
APPENDIX I: Bahá’ís killed since 1978
APPENDIX II: The United Nations’ Response

4 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

Chapter I
INTRODUCTION
B
Y ALL ACCOUNTS, the house of Mirza Abbas
Nuri was a masterpiece of Islamic architec­
ture. Mirza Abbas Nuri was a renowned 18th
century Iranian calligrapher, and his home
in Tehran — marked by a verdant veranda,
ﬂowered courtyard, and tasteful tile-work — was consid­
ered among the most beautiful houses of that period.
In the summer of 2004, however, Iranian authorities
demolished the house. The reason was all too clear: the
home was considered by Iran’s Bahá’ís as a sacred and
historic site, inasmuch as Mirza Abbas Nuri was the
father of Bahá’u’lláh, the Founder of the Bahá’í Faith.
That the Iranian government would destroy part
of its country’s own heritage tells much about the cur­
rent state of Iran’s 25-year-campaign to eradicate the
300,000-member Iranian Bahá’í community. Since
coming to power in 1979, Iran’s cleric-led Islamic
government has systematically persecuted Bahá’ís in
That the Iranian
government would
destroy part of
its country’s own
heritage tells much
about the current
state of Iran’s 25-
year-campaign
to eradicate the
300,000-member
Iranian Bahá’í
community.
The demolition in June 2004 of the house of Mirza Abbas
Nuri, a renowned 18th century Iranian calligrapher, reﬂects
the Iranian government’s willingness to destroy its own
cultural heritage to eradicate the Bahá’í Faith from Iran.
CHAPTER I: Introduction | 5

Iran, using execution, imprisonment, torture, and a
wide range of measures designed to impoverish and
drive out the country’s largest religious minority.
Between 1978 and 1998, more than 200 Bahá’ís were
executed by the Iranian government. Hundreds more
Bahá’ís were imprisoned and tortured, and tens of
thousands were deprived of jobs, pensions, businesses,
and educational opportunities.
In the face of intense international pressure, most
signiﬁcantly through a series of United Nations human
rights resolutions, the Iranian government has essen­
tially halted the executions and greatly reduced the
number of Bahá’ís held in prison.
Yet while the government has seemingly halted the
most egregious forms of direct violence against individ­
ual members of the Bahá’í community, the government
has nevertheless continued its campaign of persecu­
tion, albeit in a manner that clearly seeks to avoid the
scrutiny of international human rights monitors.
Bahá’ís in every part of Iran continue to face the
threat of short-term detention and harassment. In the
spring of 2005, for example, more than 35 Bahá’ís in
various areas were imprisoned without charge. While
most were held less than a week, others were jailed for
up to three months in a kind of “revolving door” deten­
tion apparently aimed principally at creating terror and
repression. Some of the prisoners, for example, were
held incommunicado, in unknown locations, while
their families desperately searched for them. In addi­
tion, government agents conducted prolonged searches
of many of their homes, conﬁscating documents, books,
computers, copiers and other belongings.
Moreover, the government has sought overall to
suffocate the Bahá’í community through extensive
social and economic restrictions. In addition to inci­
dents such as the razing of Mirza Abbas Nuri’s home,
which was preceded by the destruction of another
Farhang Mavaddat
was executed in June
1981, and his wife
Mehri Mavaddat was
imprisoned in 1980.
6 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

important Bahá’í holy site in April 2004, this effort
at slow strangulation — which must be considered as
nothing less than cultural cleansing — can be most
clearly observed in the government’s efforts to prevent
Bahá’í youth from obtaining higher education.
In the early 1980s, the government banned Bahá’í
youth from Iranian universities and colleges. In early
2004, however, apparently in response to international
condemnation of the ban, the government publicly
promised to change its policies, indicating that it
would allow Bahá’í students to enroll in university in
the autumn of that year. On that basis, about 1,000
Bahá’í youth took university entrance examinations.
In August 2004, the government released the results
of those exams, on which Bahá’í students scored well.
However, the government also falsely recorded the
religious affiliation of each Bahá’í student, printing
the word “Islam” in the ﬁeld listing each Bahá’í stu­
dent’s religion. Because their religious principle pre­
vents them from even “pretending” to deny their faith,
Bahá’ís were effectively precluded from matriculating.
Some 800 Bahá’ís — those who had otherwise passed
their examinations — were denied the right to educa­
tion for the 2004-2005 school year in this manner.
Beyond the destruction of Bahá’í holy places and
the denial of education to Bahá’í youth, the govern­
ment has in recent years adopted a regime of arbitrary
arrests, short term imprisonment, and the conﬁsca­
tion of homes and properties, designed to harass and
intimidate the Bahá’í community. The community as
a whole remains under numerous restrictions, with
its administrative institutions dismantled, its worship
practices restricted, and its right to equal protection
under the law utterly refused.
The government’s long term strategy to destroy the
Bahá’í community without bringing undue interna­
tional attention was cruelly outlined in a secret 1991
Beyond the
destruction of Bahá’í
holy places and the
denial of education
to Bahá’í youth,
the government
has in recent years
adopted a regimen
of arbitrary
arrests, short term
imprisonment, and
the conﬁscation
of homes and
properties, designed
to harass and
intimidate the
Bahá’í community.
CHAPTER I: Introduction | 7

memorandum that aimed at establishing policy regard­
ing “the Bahá’í question.” Drafted by the Supreme Rev­
olutionary Cultural Council and signed by Supreme
Leader Ali Khamenei, the document calls for a series
of restrictions on the access of Bahá’ís to education
Many Bahá’ís have been tortured. The body of Dr. Nasir Vafai, a 49-year-old physician
who was executed on 14 June 1981, was found to have a deep gash below his abdomen
which ran all the way around his leg, severing the joint.
8 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

and livelihood that is nothing less than a blueprint for
the strangulation of the Bahá’í community. Most sig­
niﬁcantly, it lays out unequivocally the government’s
overall objective — to ensure that the “progress and
development” of the Bahá’í community “shall be
blocked.” [See page 18 for full text of document.]
The recent destruction of holy sites and denial of
education to Bahá’í youth, as well as the continuing
measures aimed at harassing Bahá’ís and depriving
them of their rightful property and livelihood, indicate
that the government’s secret plan is still very much in
effect. All of the evidence ﬂatly contradicts the govern­
ment’s oft-repeated contention that it has no campaign
of persecution against the Bahá’ís.
The fact is that the Bahá’ís of Iran remain in a
precarious state. They are denied the right to prac­
tice their faith freely, guaranteed under international
human rights instruments such as the International
Bill of Human Rights, to which Iran is a party. The
administrative institutions of their Faith have been dis­
mantled in accordance with a government edict. They
live each day knowing that their government seeks to
block their development as a community, and that even
slight infractions can result in the deprivation of their
livelihood, imprisonment or worse.
The Bahá’í community in Iran poses no threat to
the Iranian authorities. The principles of the Bahá’í
Faith require its followers to avoid partisan politi­
cal involvement, subversive activity, and all forms of
violence. The community has painstakingly avoided
aligning itself in any fashion with any of the country’s
governments, ideologies or opposition movements.
While defending their right to worship and prac­
tice their religion freely, as promised by international
law, Bahá’ís seek only to be peaceful, law abiding and
productive contributors to the advancement of Iranian
society.
The Bahá’í
community in Iran
poses no threat to the
Iranian authorities.
The principles of the
Bahá’í Faith require
its followers to avoid
partisan political
involvement,
subversive activity,
and all forms of
violence.
CHAPTER I: Introduction | 9

The Bahá’í Faith: A global community
F
OUNDED A CENTURY and a half ago in Iran, the
Bahá’í Faith is today among the fastest-growing of
the world’s religions. With more than ﬁve million
followers, who reside in virtually every nation on earth,
it is the second-most widespread independent world
religion, surpassing every faith but Christianity in its
geographic reach. Bahá’ís reside in more than 100,000
localities around the world, an expansion that reﬂects
their dedication to the ideal of world citizenship.
The Bahá’í Faith’s global scope is mirrored in the
composition of its membership. Representing a cross
section of humanity, Bahá’ís come from virtually every
nation, ethnic group, culture, profession, and social or
economic class. More than 2,100 different ethnic and
tribal groups are represented.
The Faith’s Founder is Bahá’u’lláh, a Persian noble­
man from Tehran who, in the mid-nineteenth century,
left a life of princely comfort and security and, in the
face of intense persecution and deprivation, brought to
humanity a stirring new message of peace and unity.
Bahá’u’lláh claimed to be nothing less than a new
and independent Messenger from God. His life, work,
People of every
nationality, race, ethnic
group, and religious
background around the
world have declared
their belief in the Bahá’í
Faith. Shown here is
a group of people from
around the world who
have volunteered to serve
at the Bahá’í World
Centre in Haifa, Israel.
10 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

and influence parallel that of Abraham, Krishna,
Moses, Zoroaster, Buddha, Christ, and Muhammad.
Bahá’ís view Bahá’u’lláh as the most recent in this suc­
cession of divine Messengers.
The essential message of Bahá’u’lláh is that of
unity. He taught that there is only one God, that there
is only one human race, and that all the world’s reli­
gions represent stages in the revelation of God’s will
and purpose for humanity. In this day, Bahá’u’lláh said,
humanity has collectively come of age. As foretold in
all of the world’s scriptures, the time has arrived for
the uniting of all peoples into a peaceful and integrated
global society. “The earth is but one country, and man­
kind its citizens,” He wrote.
For a global society to ﬂourish, Bahá’u’lláh said, it
must be based on certain fundamental principles. They
include the elimination of all forms of prejudice; full
equality between the sexes; recognition of the essential
oneness of the world’s great religions; the elimination
of extremes of poverty and wealth; universal education;
the harmony of science and religion; a sustainable bal­
ance between nature and technology; and the estab­
lishment of a world federal system, based on collective
security and the oneness of humanity.
Entrance to the Shrine
of Bahá’u’lláh, near
Acre, Israel.
The essential
message of
Bahá’u’lláh is that
of unity. He taught
that there is only
one God, that there
is only one human
race, and that all
the world’s religions
represent stages
in the revelation
of God’s will
and purpose for
humanity.
CHAPTER I: Introduction | 11

Chapter II
A CAMPAIGN OF
CULTURAL CLEANSING
I
N THE WORLD today, Iran seeks to portray it­
self as a deserving partner in international trade,
inter-governmental affairs, and other coopera­
tive activities. Understanding that its interna­
tional reputation on human rights is critical,
Iran has embarked on a multi-pronged effort to con­
vince the world at large that it has largely abandoned
the practices of execution, torture, imprisonments, and
repression that marked the early days of the Islamic
revolution. Since 2002, for example, Iran has engaged
in a series of “dialogues” with the European Union and
others on human rights and trade.
The story of its ongoing persecution of the Bahá’í
community of Iran offers a singular litmus test of the
Iranian government’s degree of sincerity in meeting
The House of the Báb in Shiraz, Iran, one of the
most holy sites in the Bahá’í world, was destroyed by
Revolutionary Guardsmen in 1979 and later razed by
the government. The photo at top was taken before the
demolition took place, shown at bottom.
CHAPTER II: A Campaign of Cultural Cleansing | 13

globally accepted human rights standards. Bahá’ís hold
no political ambitions, are committed to non-violence,
and seek only to help in the redevelopment of their
native land. Yet, for more than 25 years, they have been
persecuted wholly for their religious beliefs.
Consider the following images:
• After executing Bahá’ís by firing squad, Iranian
ofﬁcials in the 1980s would frequently demand pay­
ment for the price of the bullets from the families
of the victims.
• Ten Bahá’í women, arrested and charged with the
“crime” of teaching religious classes for children
and youth, were hanged, one by one, from the old­
est to the youngest, as the others stood by. Prisoners
who watched the 1983 hangings said that the execu­
tioners had hoped to force the younger women to
recant their Faith, or even simply to say they were
not Bahá’ís. None did, all preferring to die rather
than to renounce their beliefs.
• Bahá’ís, seeking simply to educate young people
who had been excluded by government decree from
higher education in Iran, set up their own college
classes in private homes around the country in the
late 1980s. In 1998, Iranian officials raided some
500 private homes where such classes were held,
arresting 30 teachers and conﬁscating hundreds of
thousands of dollars worth of books, furniture and
educational equipment.
• Bahá’í holy sites, including those associated with
the Iranian-born Founders of the Faith, have been
systematically destroyed throughout the country,
by ofﬁcials using everything from pickaxes to bull­
dozers.
• When Bahá’ís in Yazd approached government
officials in late 2004 to call attention to their
Muna Mahmudnizhad,
17, was one of 10 Bahá’í
women executed in
Shiraz on 18 June 1983.
The primary charge
against her: teaching
Bahá’í children’s classes.
14 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

persecutions, they were warned that any pub­
lic complaints might cause the Iranian public to
rise up against them, invade and burn down their
homes, assault them, and possibly even kill them.
Within weeks, indeed, Bahá’í homes were invaded,
Bahá’ís were beaten, the Bahá’í graveyard was des­
ecrated, and at least one Bahá’í-owned business was
set ablaze. Evidence emerged that the police chief,
who in theory should have protected the Bahá’ís,
ordered the attacks.
These and other images and events add up to noth­
ing less than a systematic campaign aimed at the com­
plete eradication of an entire minority community. It is,
in short, a government-led effort at cultural cleansing.
Although the persecution of the Bahá’í Faith in
Iran has its roots in Iranian history [See “The His­
torical Background,” page 65], the current campaign of
systematic persecution began with the 1979 Islamic
Revolution. In the late 1970s and early 1980s, virtually
the entire leadership of the Iranian Bahá’í community
was arrested and executed or disappeared. In all, more
than 200 Bahá’ís have been killed or executed since the
Islamic Republic’s founding, and nearly 1,000 Bahá’ís
have been imprisoned.
The campaign at that time openly sought the
wholesale destruction of the Bahá’í community. Thou­
sands of Bahá’ís also were ﬁred from jobs, deprived
of pensions, and excluded from education (including
primary and secondary education). Bahá’í proper­
ties, sacred sites, and cemeteries were conﬁscated and
destroyed. All manner of rights to religious freedom,
worship and assembly were abrogated.
All of this has been well documented. Governments,
non-governmental organizations, and the news media
have widely reported on the persecution of Bahá’ís
in Iran. In the 1980s and 1990s, the international
Although the
persecution of the
Bahá’í Faith in
Iran has its roots in
Iranian history, the
current campaign
of systematic
persecution began
with the 1979
Islamic Revolution.
CHAPTER II: A Campaign of Cultural Cleansing | 15

community rose up and condemned this oppression
through a series of resolutions at the United Nations
and in other venues.
For a time, conditions seemed to improve. In the
late 1990s, the killings all but stopped. Most of those
Bahá’ís held in prison were released. Bahá’í children
were allowed to re-enroll in primary and secondary
schools in most parts of the country. Some Bahá’ís were
allowed to obtain new business licenses, and restric­
tions on other forms of economic activity appeared to
lessen.
At the same time, however, those who followed
events in Iran closely could see that the government
never gave up its plans of eliminating the Bahá’í com­
munity as a viable entity in Iranian society. Indeed,
continuing through today, the Bahá’í community has
been kept off guard through the constant threat of
arbitrary arrest and harassment. Restrictions on own­
ing businesses and property have remained in force.
And Bahá’í youth have been prevented from entering
institutions of higher education.
The Bahá’í Question
Iran’s anti-Bahá’í actions are not random acts, but
deliberate government policy. In 1993, concrete evi­
dence emerged that the government had in fact
adopted a secret blueprint for the quiet strangulation
of the Bahá’í community.
That evidence came in the form of a secret mem­
orandum, which had been drawn up by the Iranian
Supreme Revolutionary Cultural Council (ISRCC) in
1991. [See page 18 for complete text of the ISRCC document.]
Stamped “conﬁdential,” the document was prepared
at the request of the Leader of the Islamic Republic
of Iran, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, and the then Presi­
dent of Iran, Ayatollah Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani.
Iran’s anti-Bahá’í
actions are not
random acts,
but deliberate
government policy.
In 1993, concrete
evidence emerged
that the government
had in fact adopted
a secret blueprint
for the quiet
strangulation of the
Bahá’í community.
16 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

The memorandum was signed by
Hujjatu’l Islam Seyyed Moham­
mad Golpaygani, Secretary of the
Council, and approved by Mr.
Khamenei, who added his signa­
ture to the document.
The memorandum came to
light in the 1993 report by UN
Special Representative Reynaldo
Galindo Pohl. According to Mr.
Galindo Pohl, the document came
as “reliable information” just as the
annual report on Iran to the UN
Commission on Human Rights
was being completed.
The memorandum specifi­
cally calls for Iran’s Bahá’ís to be
treated in such a way “that their
progress and development shall
be blocked,” providing for the ﬁrst
time conclusive evidence that the
campaign against the Bahá’ís is centrally directed by
the government.
The document indicates, for example, that the gov­
ernment aims to keep the Bahá’ís illiterate and uned­
ucated, living only at a subsistence level, and fearful
at every moment that even the tiniest infraction will
bring the threat of imprisonment or worse.
Although some of its provisions appear to grant a
measure of protection to Bahá’ís, its overall impact is
to create an environment where the Bahá’í community
of Iran will be quietly eliminated.
The memorandum says, for example, that all
Bahá’ís should be expelled from universities; that they
shall be denied “positions of inﬂuence,” and instead
only be allowed to “lead a modest life similar to that of
the population in general”; and even that “employment
A photocopy of the 1991
memorandum from
the Iranian Supreme
Revolutionary
Cultural Council on
“the Bahá’í question.”
CHAPTER II: A Campaign of Cultural Cleansing | 17

The ISRCC document
[Translation from Persian]
[Text in square brackets added by translator]
In the Name of God!
The Islamic Republic of Iran
The Supreme Revolutionary Cultural Council
Number: 1327/....
Date: 6/12/69 [25 February 1991]
Enclosure: None
CONFIDENTIAL
Dr. Seyyed Mohammad Golpaygani
Head of the Ofﬁce of the Esteemed Leader [Khamenei]
Greetings!
After greetings, with reference to the letter #1/783 dated 10/10/69 [31 December
1990], concerning the instructions of the Esteemed Leader which had been con­
veyed to the Respected President regarding the Bahá’í question, we inform you that,
since the respected President and the Head of the Supreme Revolutionary Cultural
Council had referred this question to this Council for consideration and study, it was
placed on the Council’s agenda of session #128 on 16/11/69 [5 February 1991] and
session #119 of 2/11/69 [22 January 1991]. In addition to the above, and further to
the [results of the] discussions held in this regard in session #112 of 2/5/66 [24 July
1987] presided over by the Esteemed Leader (head and member of the Supreme
Council), the recent views and directives given by the Esteemed Leader regarding
the Bahá’í question were conveyed to the Supreme Council. In consideration of the
contents of the Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Iran, as well as the religious
and civil laws and general policies of the country, these matters were carefully stud­
ied and decisions pronounced.
In arriving at the decisions and proposing reasonable ways to counter the above
question, due consideration was given to the wishes of the Esteemed Leadership
of the Islamic Republic of Iran [Khamenei], namely, that “in this regard a speciﬁc
policy should be devised in such a way that everyone will understand what should or
should not be done.” Consequently, the following proposals and recommendations
resulted from these discussions.
The respected President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, as well as the Head of the
Supreme Revolutionary Cultural Council, while approving these recommendations,
instructed us to convey them to the Esteemed Leader [Khamenei] so that appropri­
ate action may be taken according to his guidance.
18 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

SUMMARY OF THE RESULTS OF THE DISCUSSIONS
AND RECOMMENDATION
A. General status of the Bahá’ís within the country’s system
1.  They will not be expelled from the country without reason.
2.  They will not be arrested, imprisoned, or penalized without reason.
3.  The government’s dealings with them must be in such a way that their progress
and development are blocked.
B. Educational and cultural status
1. They can be enrolled in schools provided they have not identiﬁed themselves as
Bahá’ís.
2. Preferably, they should be enrolled in schools which have a strong and impos­
ing religious ideology.
3. They must be expelled from universities, either in the admission process or dur­
ing the course of their studies, once it becomes known that they are Bahá’ís.
4. Their political (espionage) activities must be dealt with according to appropri­
ate government laws and policies, and their religious and propaganda activities
should be answered by giving them religious and cultural responses, as well as
propaganda.
5. Propaganda institutions (such as the Islamic Propaganda Organization) must
establish an independent section to counter the propaganda and religious
activities of the Bahá’ís.
6. A plan must be devised to confront and destroy their cultural roots outside the
country.
C. Legal and social status
1. Permit them a modest livelihood as is available to the general population.
2. To the extent that it does not encourage them to be Bahá’ís, it is permissible
to provide them the means for ordinary living in accordance with the general
rights given to every Iranian citizen, such as ration booklets, passports, burial
certiﬁcates, work permits, etc.
3. Deny them employment if they identify themselves as Bahá’ís.
4. Deny them any position of inﬂuence, such as in the educational sector, etc.
Wishing you divine conﬁrmations,
Secretary of the Supreme Revolutionary Cultural Council
Dr. Seyyed Mohammad Golpaygani
[Signature]
[Note in the handwriting of Mr. Khamenei]
In the Name of God!
The decision of the Supreme Revolutionary Cultural Council seems sufﬁcient.
I thank you gentlemen for your attention and efforts.
[signed:] Ali Khamenei
CHAPTER II: A Campaign of Cultural Cleansing | 19

shall be refused to persons identifying themselves as
Bahá’ís.”
The provisions regarding arrest, imprisonment and
punishment can be read in two ways. The document
says:
(a) With regard to the general condition of Bahá’ís,
the following guidelines are hereby adopted: (i) they
are not to be expelled from the country without
reason; (ii) they are not to be detained, imprisoned
or punished without reason; (iii) the government’s
treatment of them shall be such that their progress
and development shall be blocked.
At ﬁrst glance, it might seem that the term “with­
out reason” is a move towards greater justice, inasmuch
as virtually all of the detentions, arrests and imprison­
ments of Bahá’ís in the past have been without cause.
However, when the entire memo is understood in the
context of what to do about “the Bahá’í question,” it is
clear that the directive is merely instructing ofﬁcials to
be sure that they justify their actions before they make
any moves against a Bahá’í. It in no way promises any
sort of protection.
The memorandum also belies its underlying inten­
tions when it says that Bahá’ís will be allowed to go
to school only if they do not identify themselves as
Bahá’ís, and that they should be sent to schools “with
a strong religious ideology.” The aim here, obviously, is
to wrest Bahá’í children from their faith.
Ominously, the memorandum says that “A plan
must be devised to confront and destroy their cultural
roots outside the country.” That Iran would like to
reach outside its borders to stamp out the Bahá’í Faith
makes clear the degree of blind animosity felt by the
government towards Bahá’ís.
In the years since the memorandum was written,
the Bahá’í community has experienced persecution
in all of the areas outlined by it: Bahá’ís have been
Although some of its
provisions appear
to grant a measure
of protection to
Bahá’ís, its overall
impact is to create
an environment
where the Bahá’í
community of Iran
will be quietly
eliminated.
20 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

detained, imprisoned, and falsely charged with “spy­
ing”; they have been denied access to education and
sources of livelihood; they have been stripped of all
inﬂuence in Iranian society and deprived of their right
to religious freedom.
Indeed, as the next chapter indicates, the Iranian
government has focused on social, economic and cul­
tural repression aimed quite clearly at carrying out the
plan endorsed by the “Bahá’í question” memorandum.
Iran’s Bahá’ís have
experienced persecution
in every region of the
country.
CHAPTER II: A Campaign of Cultural Cleansing | 21

22 | The Bahá’í Question

Chapter III
THE CURRENT
SITUATION
I
N CONTRAST TO its campaign of outright kill­
ing, imprisonment, and torture of Bahá’ís during
the 1980s, the Iranian government has in recent
years focused largely on economic and social ef­
forts to drive Bahá’ís from Iran and destroy their
cultural and community life.
Such measures include ongoing efforts to prevent
Bahá’ís from receiving higher education, to deny them
the means of economic livelihood, and to deprive them
of the inspiration provided by their sacred and historic
sites.
The government has also used arbitrary arrests and
detentions, coupled with the conﬁscation of personal
property, to terrorize, oppress and otherwise keep the
community off balance — a stratagem that appears to be
on the rise. Behind these techniques remains the implicit
threat of long term imprisonment and execution.
Above all else, the Bahá’í community remains
Interior of the house of Mirza Abbas Nuri, an
architectural landmark in Tehran, during its demolition
in June 2004.
The government’s
efforts to deny
Bahá’í youth access
to higher education
perhaps most clearly
demonstrate the
lengths to which the
Iranian government
is willing to go in
its campaign of
cultural cleansing.
CHAPTER III: The Current Situation | 23

without fundamental religious freedoms accorded to
it in international human rights documents that Iran
has signed. These include the right of Bahá’ís to freely
assemble, to choose their leadership, and to openly
manifest their religion “in worship, observance, prac­
tice and teaching.”
Denial of Access to Education
The government’s efforts to deny Bahá’í youth access
to higher education perhaps most clearly demonstrate
the lengths to which the Iranian government is willing
to go in its campaign of cultural cleansing.
As previously stated, the Iranian government
banned Bahá’í youth from education shortly after the
1979 Islamic revolution. At ﬁrst, all Bahá’í children were
excluded from schooling, but in the 1990s, primary and
secondary school children were allowed to re-enroll.
But the ban on the entry of Bahá’í youth into pub­
lic and private institutions of higher education has
remained. The Bahá’í Faith places a high value on edu­
cation, and Bahá’ís have always been among the best-
educated groups in Iran. Being denied access to higher
education for years has had a demoralizing effect on
Bahá’í youth, and the erosion of the educational level
of the community is clearly aimed at hastening its
impoverishment.
In late 2003, early 2004, however, the government
indicated that it would allow Bahá’í youth to enroll
in university in the autumn of 2004. (It’s worth not­
ing that the government was at the time engaged in a
human rights dialogue with the European Union, and
one demand of the Europeans was improved access to
education for Bahá’ís.)
The key to this change was the publication of news
articles stating that the question of religious afﬁliation
would be removed from university entrance examina­
24 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

tions and other university enrollment documents.
The removal of the data ﬁeld asking for religious
afﬁliation was critical to Bahá’í youth who sought to
enter university. The government had always said that
if Bahá’ís simply declare themselves as Muslims, they
would be allowed to enroll. But for Bahá’ís, such a false
declaration would not only be against the principles of
their faith, which precludes lying or dissimulation, it
would also tacitly play into the hands of government
efforts to get them to deny their faith.
False Promises
With the promise that religious afﬁliation would not
matter, about 1,000 Bahá’ís accordingly signed up
for and took university entrance examinations. And,
indeed, no ﬁeld declaring religion was on the papers.
Students were asked to take a religious subject
examination, however. It came as part of the whole
range of subject tests relating to mathematics, lan­
guage, history, and so on. The religion tests were
offered in four subjects, Islam, Christianity, Judaism
and Zoroastrianism, corresponding to the four recog­
nized religions in Iran.
Most Bahá’í students opted for the Islamic subject
test since, as the majority religion, Islam is taught in
all schools and most Bahá’ís in Iran accordingly have a
solid familiarity with its teachings.
In August, however, when the examination results
were mailed out, government authorities had printed
the word “Islam” in a data ﬁeld listing a prospective
student’s religion. Ofﬁcials cynically explained they did
that on the assumption that choosing to take the sub­
ject test on Islam amounts to a de facto declaration of
faith in Islam.
Upon learning of the forced religious declaration,
(continued on page 28)
The Iranian
government banned
Bahá’í youth from
education shortly
after the 1979
Islamic revolution.
At ﬁrst, all Bahá’í
children were
excluded from
schooling, but in
the 1990s, primary
and secondary
school children were
allowed to re-enroll.
CHAPTER III: The Current Situation | 25

The Bahá’í Institute for Higher Education
I
N WHAT THE New York Times called “an elaborate act of communal
self-preservation,” the Bahá’í community in 1987 established its own
higher education program to meet the educational needs of as many
of its young people as resources would allow. That program evolved over
the years into a full-ﬂedged university, known as the Bahá’í Institute for
Higher Education (BIHE), which, until mid-1998, had an enrollment of
some 900 students, a faculty of more than 150 ﬁrst-rate academics and
instructors, and complete course offerings in ten subject areas.
Because of the continual threat of persecution, the BIHE was forced
to operate in a highly circumspect and decentralized manner. Most of
its classes were held in private homes throughout Iran and what little
permanent infrastructure it had was composed of a handful of rented
classrooms and laboratories scattered throughout the capital.
Then, in an act that speaks volumes about the government’s real
attitude towards Bahá’ís, hundreds of government agents fanned out
across the country in September 1998, arresting some 36 BIHE faculty
and staff, raiding some 500 homes, and conﬁscating hundreds of thou­
sands of dollars worth of books, equipment and records in a blatant
effort to shut the university down.
“The materials conﬁscated were neither political nor religious, and
the people arrested were not ﬁghters or organizers,” said the New York
Times, in a 29 October 1998 article about the raids. “They were lectur­
ers in subjects like accounting and dentistry; the materials seized were
textbooks and laboratory equipment.”
Teaching was done principally via correspondence, or, for special­
ized scientiﬁc and technical courses and in other special cases, in small-
group classes that were usually held in private homes.
“At the beginning, the students did not even know the names of
their professors,” said one BIHE professor, who, like most others quoted
in this article, wanted to remain anonymous out of fear for his safety
and that of his relatives in Iran. “Even after three or four years, the stu­
dents did not know the names of their professors. They had never seen
them. Because it was very dangerous. If somebody knows the name of
them, maybe they would tell their friends. So it was all correspondence
at the beginning of this plan.”
26 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

Over time, however, the Institute
was able to establish a few labora­
tories, operated in privately owned
commercial buildings in and around
Tehran, for computer science, physics,
dental science, pharmacology, applied
chemistry and language study. The
operations of these laboratories were
kept prudently quiet, with students
cautioned not to come and go in large
groups that might give the authorities
a reason to object.
Among its faculty were approxi­
mately 25 or 30 professors who had
been ﬁred from government-run uni­
versities after the 1979 Islamic Revolu­
tion. Other faculty members included
doctors, dentists, lawyers and engineers. The majority were educated
in Iran, but a good number have degrees from universities in the West,
including the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Columbia Uni­
versity, the University of California at Berkeley and the Sorbonne.
None of the Bahá’í faculty members were paid for their time; all
worked as volunteers.
“These youth are very precious people,” said a faculty member,
explaining why they were willing to take such risks, without monetary
remuneration, to establish the Institute. “We all care about them. They
have been through tests and trials and they had no hope. They have
been deprived of many things so if there was any chance for us to get
something better for them, we did it.”
While most of those arrested were ultimately released, and the
holding of classes in private homes has resumed on a small scale, the
effort by the government to shut down the BIHE clearly demonstrates
the degree of hatred and prejudice against the Bahá’ís that remains in
certain circles of the government — and shows unambiguously why
the Bahá’í community will not be safe until legal protections are ﬁrmly
institutionalized, regardless of talk of reform.
Most of the classes offered by the Bahá’í
Institute for Higher Education have been
held in private homes, like this one, which
shows a professor with his back to the easel
and several students on living room couches.
CHAPTER III: The Current Situation | 27

a group of Bahá’í students complained to ofﬁcials at
the Educational Measurement and Evaluation Orga­
nization (EMEO), asking if they could return the exam
results with corrected information. A footnote in the
letter conveying examination results said that incorrect
names and addresses could and should be corrected
and returned.
However, no mention was made about correcting
religious information. Indeed, Bahá’ís were told by
EMEO ofﬁcials that “incorrect religion would not be
corrected” on the forms since the Bahá’í Faith is not
among the ofﬁcially recognized religions in Iran.
Shortly after that meeting, Bahá’í students wrote a
letter of protest to the EMEO. The students expressed,
clearly, their objection to having been designated as
Muslims after having been promised that they would
not have to disclose their religion in order to take the
entrance examination.
At ﬁrst, ofﬁcials of the EMEO seemed to sympa­
thize with their problem, even allowing Bahá’ís to ﬁll
out revised registration forms with no religious afﬁlia­
tion. However, even though some 800 Bahá’í students
who had passed their examinations also met the new
deadline for submission of the revised forms, only
ten names were published in an EMEO bulletin on 12
September 2004 announcing which students had been
admitted to university.
It’s worth noting also that many Bahá’ís received
high scores on the examinations, and, in fact, many of
them were passed over in the admission process, while
many lower-scoring Muslim students were accepted.
In the end, out of solidarity with the rest of the 800
students who had been unfairly discriminated against,
those ten Bahá’ís declined to register in the universi­
ties to which they had been accepted. And so, for the
school year 2004-2005, Bahá’í young people were once
again utterly deprived of access to higher education.
The Bahá’í Faith
places a high value
on education,
and Bahá’ís have
always been among
the best educated
groups in Iran.
Being denied access
to higher education
for years has had a
demoralizing effect
on Bahá’í youth,
and the erosion of
the educational level
of the community
is clearly aimed
at hastening its
impoverishment.
28 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

For Bahá’ís, the entire episode seems calculated to
accomplish a number of government objectives. First, it
apparently seeks to demoralize Iranian Bahá’í youth in
an effort to induce them to leave the country. Second,
it allowed Iranian authorities to identify by name those
Bahá’ís with outstanding academic ability, who might
at some point play a role in helping to revive the Bahá’í
community’s fortunes. And, third, it allowed the Ira­
nian government to say to international human rights
monitors that they had given the Bahá’ís a chance to
enroll — and that it was the Bahá’ís themselves who
refused the opportunity.
Yet the government, of course, has long been aware
that Bahá’ís cannot and will not as a matter of religious
principle falsify or misrepresent their beliefs. And so it
is clear from the whole affair that the 1991 policy aim­
ing at blocking the development and progress of the
Bahá’í community remains in effect.
Destruction of Holy Places
In the destruction of Bahá’í holy places, the govern­
ment also demonstrates the lengths to which it will
go to suffocate the Bahá’í community in Iran and to
cleanse Bahá’í culture from modern memory — even
though it may mean destroying monuments and build­
ings of historic importance to the society at large.
In June 2004, authorities demolished an historic
house in Tehran that had been designed and owned
by the father of the Faith’s founder. The house was not
only signiﬁcant to Bahá’ís but was also considered to
be a sterling example of period architecture of historic
importance to Iranians.
The house that was destroyed in June was owned by
Mirza Abbas Nuri, the father of Bahá’u’lláh. Its destruc­
tion prompted an outcry by Bahá’ís around the world.
(continued on page 34)
CHAPTER III: The Current Situation | 29

The Bahá’í community of Iran speaks for itself
I
N NOVEMBER 2004, the Iranian Bahá’í community addressed a letter
to Iranian President Mohammad Khatami, outlining the scope of
the persecution they have faced for 25 years. The letter examines the
persecution in light of those verses of the Qur’an and Islamic law that
proscribe violence and uphold freedom of religion. It also notes that Iran
signed and ratiﬁed the Universal Declaration on Human Rights and as­
sociated covenants that protect freedom of religion. It then recounts
the government’s recent duplicity in offering university enrollment to
Bahá’í youth but then falsely recording them as Muslims. It ends with
a call for the full emancipation of the Bahá’í community. Here follow
excerpts from the letter:
15 November 2004
The Esteemed Presidency of the
Islamic Republic of Iran Mr. Khatami
For more than 161 years, the Bahá’ís have been exposed, in the sacred
land of Iran—the native soil of their forefathers in whose name they
take pride—to a series of abuses, tortures, murders and massacres and
have tolerated numerous forms of persecution, tragedy and depriva­
tion, for no other reason than believing in God and following their
Faith, the largest religious minority in Iran. Contrary to all religious,
legal and moral standards, and supported by existing ofﬁcial docu­
mentation, they have been, individually and collectively, the subject of
unwarranted discrimination and various injustices. Every time a politi­
cal and social turmoil has occurred in this country, new machinations
have been devised against this religious minority, and, in one way or
another, their inalienable rights have been violated.
Day after day, the pressure against this wronged community became
more intense and the scope of the injustice and infringement of their
rights in various aspects of their lives more overt, such that their pos­
sessions, their homes, their jobs and their very existence were the tar­
get of attacks.
30 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

Bahá’ís would never commit any act contrary to the law of the land;
they are well-wishers of the people and the state; they do not involve
themselves with any political party; and they tenaciously uphold their
Faith’s principles, which call on them to love and serve the entire
human race and to bring about peace, amity and unity of religion.
From the perspective of the holy religion of Islam, people are free
to choose and follow their own religion, and no one has the right to
impose his religion on another. The following noble verses “Let there
be no compulsion in religion…” and “To you be your Way, and to me
mine” conﬁrm this point. From the perspective of the holy religion
of Islam, no one has the right to attack and violate the properties,
the life and the dignity of those who live under the banner of this
religion, which is to be secure and protected: “…if anyone slew a per­
son—unless it be for murder or for spreading mischief in the land—it
would be as if he slew the whole people…”
The equality, the freedom and the inalienable rights of all members
of the human family, without discrimination as to race, gender, language
and religion, have been unequivocally speciﬁed in all international cov­
enants, especially in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Notwithstanding the Divine Standards and social and legal norms,
to which brief reference has been made, certain decisions which have
bafﬂed humanity were made at the beginning of the [Islamic] Revolu­
tion, under authority of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Under the rubric
of Cultural Revolution, the authorities of the [Ministry of] Culture
and Education decided to expel Bahá’í students, some of whom were
completing their last term, from universities and other institutions of
higher learning in which they were studying. Others were barred from
entering these institutions solely because of their adherence to the
Bahá’í Faith. Then in 1369 [1990/91], the Council of Cultural Revolu­
tion, with reference to a well-planned agenda, openly deprived Bahá’í
youth from higher education, thereby denying a number of the youth
of this land the opportunity to realize their potential. This situation
continued for some 20 years until in Ádhar of 1382 [December of 2003]
CHAPTER III: The Current Situation | 31

“Peykesanjesh” (the publication of the Ministry of Science) ofﬁcially
announced that for the ﬁrst time the religious afﬁliation of applicants
would not be included in the application for the [university] national
examination, and, instead, applicants would be asked to choose the
subject of religious studies in which they would wish to be examined.
Owing to the limitation cited in Article 13 of the Constitution, Bahá’í
applicants necessarily chose Islamic studies for this examination.
Having received their entrance identification cards and subse­
quently taking this national examination, the success of Bahá’í youth,
based on the government announcement of results in the ﬁrst phase,
was signiﬁcant in that some 800 students were qualiﬁed to choose
their ﬁelds of study, of whom hundreds ranked in the one to four digit
range [a ranking scale extending to 200,000]. After receiving their
test result forms, however, the Bahá’í applicants were surprised to see
that their religion was speciﬁed as Islam. This duplicity astounded the
Bahá’í community. Alas, the joyful news that the question about the
religion of the applicants had been omitted from the national univer­
sity entrance examination, which was a reﬂection of freedom of belief
and a sign that the government of the Islamic Republic of Iran was
moving toward establishing the foundation of human rights and elimi­
nating discrimination in education, was quite short-lived.
Questions continue to preoccupy the minds of the members of
the Bahá’í community in Iran and throughout the world as well as
free thinkers and advocates of human rights: Does such unfair deci­
sion-making, such resorting to strategies whose direction is obvious
and whose aim is to create prejudice and to violate the indisputable
rights of a community, conform to standards of justice and equity?
Should those who seek progress be barred from acquiring knowledge
and deprived of actualizing their God-given potentialities because of
their religious belief?
By now, a quarter of a century has elapsed in the reign of the
Islamic government. To every act of injustice, Bahá’ís have responded
32 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

with magnanimity. Faced with widespread and intense persecutions
and multi-faceted iniquities, the Bahá’ís have never deviated, even by
a hair’s breadth, from the straight divine path, and they continue to
hold fast onto the cord of patience and tolerance as dictated by their
Faith and belief.
They fain would expect that, over such a long period of time, which
should have been sufﬁcient to remove suspicions and misunderstand­
ings, the esteemed authorities would have realized that the Bahá’ís
ﬁrmly believe in the oneness of God and the divine nature of all reli­
gions and prophets, as well as the realm beyond as conﬁrmed in all the
divine scriptures; they obey the laws and regulations of their country in
accordance with the principles of their religion; they strive to preserve
the interests of their homeland by offering cultural, social, economic
and developmental assistance; and they would never refuse any service
to establish human virtues and perfections which fulﬁl such universal
visions as world peace and the oneness of humanity.
It is now hoped that [that respected authority], based on the Con­
stitution, will take immediate action to ensure the emancipation of the
Iranian Bahá’í community, reinstating their human rights and restor­
ing the privileges of which they have been deprived.




Respectfully,




The Iranian Bahá’í community
CHAPTER III: The Current Situation | 33

In six nations, Bahá’í communities coordinated the
publication of a statement in major newspapers that
decried the house’s destruction as part of a campaign
of “cultural cleansing” against the minority Bahá’í
community in Iran.
Noting that the house was an “historical monu­
ment, a precious example of Islamic-Iranian archi­
tecture, ‘a matchless model of art, spirituality, and
architecture,’” the statement compared this action by
Iran’s extremist Muslim leadership to those of the Tali-
ban of Afghanistan.
“The hatred of the extremist mullahs for the Bahá’ís
is such that they, like the Taliban
of Afghanistan who destroyed
the towering Buddhist sculptures
at Bamian, intend not only to
eradicate the religion, but even to
erase all traces of its existence in
the country of its birth,” said the
statement.
“In their determination to rid
Iran of the Bahá’í community and
obliterate its very memory, the
fundamentalists in power are pre­
pared even to destroy the cultural
heritage of their own country,
which they appear not to realize
they hold in trust for humankind,”
the statement continued.
Mirza Abbas Nuri himself was widely regarded
as one of Iran’s greatest calligraphers and statesmen.
In July, the Iranian newspaper Hamshahri published
a lengthy article about his life and the architecture of
his house.
“As he had good taste for the arts and for beauty, he
designed his own house in such a style that it became
known as one of the most beautiful houses of that
Destruction of cultural
heritage. Another image
of the interior of the house
of Mirza Abbas Nuri
in Tehran during its
demolition in June 2004.
34 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

period,” wrote Iman Mihdizadih on 13 July 2004. “The
plasterwork and the tile-work in the rooms as well
as the verdant veranda, the courtyard with its central
pool, and the trees planted in the ﬂowerbeds, all cre­
ated a tranquil atmosphere in this house.”
The house was destroyed over the period of about
one week in June. The demolition order was issued in
April by Ayatollah Kani, director of the Marvi School
and the Endowments Ofﬁce of the government, osten­
sibly for the purpose of creating an Islamic cemetery.
When the demolition started on 20 June, ofﬁcials from
the Ministry of Information were present, and by 29
June more than 70 percent of the structure had been
destroyed.
The destruction of the house of Mirza Abbas Nuri
followed the razing in April 2004 of another historic
Bahá’í property, the gravesite of Quddus, an early
disciple of the Bahá’í Faith. The action came after
demolition work started in February and then halted
temporarily in the face of protest at the local, national,
and international levels.
Indeed, Bahá’ís had approached national authori­
ties after the demolition work had been started, and
for a time that work was halted. Then, in April, it was
discovered that the dismantling of the gravesite had
continued surreptitiously over a period of days until
the structure was entirely demolished.
The house-like structure marked the resting place of
Mullah Muhammad-Ali Barfurushi, known as Quddus
(The Most Holy). Quddus was the foremost disciple of
the Báb, the Prophet-Herald of the Bahá’í Faith.
The destruction of two such important holy sites
in 2004 was not without precedent. In March 1979, the
House of the Báb, the holiest Bahá’í shrine in Iran,
was turned over by the government to a Muslim cleric
known for his anti-Bahá’í activities. In September that
year, that house was destroyed by a mob led by mullahs
In the destruction of
Bahá’í holy places,
the government
also demonstrates
the lengths to
which it will go to
suffocate the Bahá’í
community in Iran
and to cleanse Bahá’í
culture from modern
memory — even
though it may
mean destroying
monuments and
buildings of historic
importance to the
society at large.
CHAPTER III: The Current Situation | 35

and ofﬁcials of the Department of Religious Affairs.
Likewise, in the early years of the Islamic Republic,
the House of Bahá’u’lláh in Takur, where the Founder
of the Bahá’í Faith spent His childhood, met a similar
fate: it was demolished and the site was offered for sale
to the public.
Over the years, as well, in Tehran and other cit­
ies throughout Iran, Bahá’í buildings have been looted
and burned, Bahá’í cemeteries have been bulldozed
and Bahá’í graves have been broken open. In the Teh­
ran area, the Bahá’ís were forced to bury their dead
in a barren stretch of land reserved by the authorities
for “inﬁdels.” Having access to their own cemeteries is
especially important to Bahá’ís because, as might be
expected, they are not allowed to bury their dead in
Muslim cemeteries.
Arbitrary Arrests and Harassment
Beyond such speciﬁc efforts at cultural cleansing, the
government has in recent years continued its policy
of keeping the Bahá’í community off balance through
various measures, including arbitrary arrests, short
term detention, persistent harassment, and other forms
of intimidation and discrimination.
As noted, hundreds of Bahá’ís were imprisoned
during the early 1980s. Then, in response to inter­
national pressure, the government gradually released
nearly all long-term Bahá’í prisoners. As of July 2005,
for example, only two Bahá’ís, Dhabihu’llah Mahrami
and Mehran Kawsari, were being held under long-
term prison sentences.
Yet the use of arbitrary arrest and short-term impris­
onment as methods of harassment, terror and oppres­
sion against Bahá’ís not only continues but appears to
be on the rise. In late July-early August 2005, as this
publication was going to press, some 16 Bahá’ís in three
...in April, it was
discovered that
the dismantling
of the gravesite
had continued
surreptitiously over
a period of days until
the structure was
entirely demolished.
36 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

Gravesite of Quddus, an historic ﬁgure of the Bahá’í
Faith, during its surreptitious demolition in April 2004.
The gravesite is located in Babol, Iran.
CHAPTER III: The Current Situation | 37

locations were arrested and imprisoned.
In March, April, and May of 2005 some 35 Bahá’ís
across Iran were arrested and held for short periods,
ranging from a week to nearly three months. Those
arrested included not only prominent members of the
community in Tehran, but also six Bahá’ís in Shiraz,
nine in the city of Semnan, and nine Bahá’í farmers
whose homes and land had previously been conﬁscated
in the village of Kata.
Most were arbitrarily detained without any charge
being ﬁled against them. Some of the prisoners were
Bahá’ís gather outside Tehran in 1982 for the funeral
of one of their co-religionists who was killed by the
government.
38 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

held incommunicado, in unknown locations, while
their families desperately searched for them. Most were
released only after having posted signiﬁcant amounts
of money, property deeds or business licenses as bail.
Moreover, government agents conducted prolonged
searches of many of the homes of those who were
arrested, conﬁscating documents, books, computers,
copiers and other belongings.
Among those arrested in the spring of 2005, only
Mr. Kawsari remains in prison at the time this booklet
was published in August 2005. Mr. Kawsari was arrested
on 8 March 2005 for distributing the open letter sent to
President Khatami [see page 30]. He received a one-year
sentence and has been incarcerated in Evin prison.
Also recently in the city of Yazd, long a center of
anti-Bahá’í activities, it appears that the police chief
orchestrated a series of incidents against Bahá’ís. In
late 2004 and early 2005, a number of Bahá’ís were
arrested, detained, and interrogated; several were beaten
in their homes; at least one Bahá’í-owned business was
set aﬁre; and the Bahá’í graveyard was desecrated.
Such incidents are hardly isolated. In 2003, for exam­
ple, some 23 Bahá’ís in 18 different localities in Iran were
subjected to arbitrary arrest and detention for short peri­
ods of time. In all cases, Iranian authorities summoned
these people because they were Bahá’ís, questioned them
about their beliefs, and then released them.
In 2002, 17 Bahá’í youth who were participating in
a camp were arrested and detained for questioning.
Reports about this incident in the Iranian press car­
ried a negative slant, referring to the young Bahá’ís in
a derogatory and vulgar manner.
Discrimination in the courts
The story of Mr. Mahrami, also in prison at the time
of the publication of this booklet, is instructive in that
The Iranian
government has
in recent years
continued its policy
of keeping the
Bahá’í community
off balance through
various measures,
including arbitrary
arrests, short term
detention, persistent
harassment, and
other forms of
intimidation and
discrimination.
CHAPTER III: The Current Situation | 39

it likewise reﬂects the very real and continuing threat
of imprisonment for the Bahá’ís in Iran — and the
degree to which the legal system is prejudiced against
Bahá’ís. Mr. Mahrami was first called before the
Islamic Revolutionary Court in Yazd in 1995 and ques­
tioned about his adherence to the Bahá’í Faith. Several
meetings were held in an effort to persuade him to
renounce his beliefs; he refused and was charged with
apostasy. In 1996 he was sentenced to death. Since his
heirs are not Muslims but Bahá’ís, his properties and
assets were conﬁscated. After his lawyer had appealed
to the Supreme Court, Iranian officials announced
that the Court had rejected the verdict of the Revo­
lutionary Court and referred the case to a civil court.
However, in 1997, the Supreme Court conﬁrmed the
death sentence (communicated orally to his relatives).
Finally, in 1999, the Bahá’í International Community
was unofﬁcially informed that a Presidential amnesty
had commuted Mr. Mahrami’s death sentence to life
imprisonment.
The government has also used the courts to rein­
force a general sense of second-class citizenship for
Bahá’ís. Over the years, there have been numerous dis­
criminatory decisions rendered against Bahá’ís.
In a recent court case, for example, 12 plaintiffs ﬁled
a petition against a man accused of murdering their
relative, who was a Bahá’í. The court’s verdict recog­
nized the crime as a “quasi-intentional” murder and
convicted the man as charged. But he was sentenced,
without payment of blood money, to only four months
imprisonment, and that was suspended as time already
served. Calling Bahá’ís a “perverse sect” and “inﬁdels,”
the court concluded that they should receive neither
requital nor blood money in cases of murder. This ver­
dict is alarming, as it could incite Muslims to believe
that they are free to take the lives of Bahá’ís in Iran
with impunity.
In 2003, some
23 Bahá’ís in 18
different localities in
Iran were subjected
to arbitrary arrest
and detention for
short periods of
time. In all cases,
Iranian authorities
summoned these
people because
they were Bahá’ís,
questioned them
about their beliefs,
and then released
them.
40 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

Economic Measures
In the 1980s, over 10,000 Bahá’ís were dismissed from
positions in government and educational institutions.
Many remain unemployed and receive no unemploy­
ment beneﬁts. The pensions of Bahá’ís dismissed on
religious grounds were terminated, and some were
even required to return salaries paid to them before
they were dismissed.
Efforts to impoverish the Bahá’í community and to
deprive its members of their economic livelihood have
continued through a variety of means. In particular,
government authorities have in many places around
the country continued to block Bahá’ís from receiving
pensions, conducting business, or ﬁnding employment.
Authorities have also continued in the arbitrary conﬁs­
cation of homes and properties owned by Bahá’ís.
Employment
Limitations on employment opportunities continue
to be imposed on Bahá’ís in various sectors of the
economy. Even when Bahá’ís ﬁnd employment in the
private sector, government ofﬁcials often intervene and
force the owners of the companies to ﬁre them. And
when Bahá’ís start a private business, the authorities
attempt to block their activities.
Two recent court cases, for example, demonstrate
the efforts of the authorities to impede Bahá’ís from
conducting private business activities.
In September 2003, Branch 13 of the Tribunal of
Administrative Justice rejected an appeal by a Bahá’í
businessman against an injunction that required him to
cease his business operations. The court also rejected
his petition to obtain a business license. The tribunal
held that his appeal was “disqualiﬁed as irrelevant, as [it
was] outside the scope of the applicable regulations,”
In the 1980s, over
10,000 Bahá’ís
were dismissed
from positions
in government
and educational
institutions. Many
remain unemployed
and receive no
unemployment
beneﬁts. The
pensions of Bahá’ís
dismissed on
religious grounds
were terminated,
and some were even
required to return
salaries paid to them
before they were
dismissed.
CHAPTER III: The Current Situation | 41

citing the information the court had “about the plain­
tiff ’s being associated with the perverse Baha’i sect.”
In 2003, in a second, similar case, an administrative
injunction was issued to impede a Bahá’í-owned com­
pany in Isfahan from doing business. The company is
owned and directed by a Bahá’í engineer and employs
some 120 staff — most of whom are Bahá’ís — manu­
facturing electrical and communication cables. In the
injunction, the Director-General of the Central Ofﬁce
of Protection, which is under the Iranian Ministry of
Post, Telegraph and Telephone, informed the company
of an ofﬁcial memorandum issued in April 2003. The
document concluded that “the link between the…
company… and the perverse Baha’i sect is established
to be true; therefore it is advisable to adopt measures
to prevent any collaboration with the above-mentioned
company.”
The intergovernmental body most concerned with
the right to employment, the International Labour
Organization (ILO), made a number of references to
the ongoing discrimination against the Bahá’ís in Iran
at its annual Conference on Conventions and Recom­
mendations in June 2003. The “situation of members
of the Bahá’í Faith, an unrecognized religious minority,
continues to be a source of concern,” said the report.
“The barriers that these people face in access to higher
education and to employment in public institutions are
still high.”
Deprivation of Pensions
In the ﬁrst years of its campaign of persecution, the
Iranian government stopped pension payments to
thousands of Bahá’ís who had been employed in
government service. Bahá’ís have, over the years, sought
to have their pensions restored. The government, how­
ever, continues to deny many Bahá’ís rightfully earned
The government
continues to deny
many Bahá’ís
rightfully earned
pension funds.
Documents prove
that this policy is
intentional — and
solely related to
the pensioner’s
membership in the
Bahá’í Faith.
42 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

pension funds. Documents prove that this policy is
intentional — and solely related to the pensioner’s
membership in the Bahá’í Faith.
In a letter dated 30 May 2003, for example, the
Ofﬁce of Beneﬁciary Affairs of the Keshavarzi Bank
instructed its General Ofﬁce to discontinue the dis­
bursement of a Bahá’í’s pension to his heirs because he
was a member of the Bahá’í “sect.” The decision was
later conﬁrmed by the head of the Ofﬁce of Legal and
Parliament Affairs, who cited a judicial decree of Imam
Khomeini and said a letter of the National Retirement
Bureau number 6/18448 (dated 3 November 2003) must
be implemented in such cases.
Likewise, in a letter dated 17 December 2003, the
General Ofﬁce of Finance transmitted a letter to the
director of the Retirement Bureau of the Province
of Azerbaijan-e-Sharqi, stating that since a Bahá’í’s
employment had been terminated due to his belief in
“the perverse Baha’i sect,” there was no authorization
to return or transfer his retirement deductions.
Earlier documented evidence involved decisions in
four more cases, dating from July 2001 to November
2002, where Iranian Bahá’ís have been denied access to
their own, rightfully earned pensions. The documents
prove that this action was taken solely on the basis of
religious belief, as they explicitly state: “payment of
pension to those individuals connected with the Baha’i
sect is illegal.”
The Conﬁscation of Property
During the past few years, there has been an increase
in conﬁscation of Bahá’í properties, in particular in the
cities of Rafsanjan, Kerman, Marv-Dasht, and Yazd.
Property owned by Bahá’ís has also been conﬁscated
in Tehran, in the village of Kata and in the village of
Matneq. In October 2004, for example, the homes of
In virtually
every case, court
judgments or
documents have
emerged that prove
the properties were
conﬁscated because
the owners were
Bahá’ís.
CHAPTER III: The Current Situation | 43

The ongoing threat of execution
S
INCE 1978, MORE than 200 Bahá’ís have been killed or executed in
the Islamic Republic of Iran. Most were killed in the early 1980s,
before international attention was focused on the crisis. A full list
of those killed or executed can be found in Appendix I.
Although in recent years the government has sharply reduced its
killing rate, it continued occasionally to execute Bahá’ís through the
late 1990s. The most recent execution of a Bahá’í in Iran was in July
1998, when Ruhu’llah Rawhani was hanged in Mashhad.
Nevertheless, the threat of execution or killing still looms large for
Iranian Bahá’ís, who remain without recognized legal status in Iran.
A number of Bahá’ís in recent years have been held in prison under
the sentence of death, for example. Fortunately, international pressure
has helped to convince Iranian authorities to commute or reduce those
sentences.
One such case surrounded the sentence given to Musa Talibi, a Bahá’í
from Vilashahr, who was arrested in 1994 and then sentenced to death in
1996 on the charge of apostasy. He was 63 years old at the time.
After appeal and initial confirmation of this sentence by the
Supreme Court, the Bahá’í International Community was unofﬁcially
six Bahá’í families in Kata (in the Buyir-Ahmad region
of Iran) were conﬁscated on the order of the prosecu­
tor of the city of Shiraz, with the assistance of the local
police.
In virtually every case, court judgments or docu­
ments have emerged that prove the properties were
conﬁscated because the owners were Bahá’ís.
For example, one house confiscated in Tehran in
1998 belonged to a Muslim landlord, who was leasing
the property to a Bahá’í. The landlord lodged an appeal,
and an extract from the court documents (dated 15 Sep­
44 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

informed in 1999 that his death sentence
had been commuted to life imprison­
ment. Finally, in May 2003, after being
visited by members of the UN Working
Group on Arbitary Detention that Feb­
ruary, Mr. Talibi was freed.
Likewise, two men, Bihnam Mithaqi
and Kayvan Khalajabadi were released in
February 2004, after having been impris­
oned since 1989 on charges arising solely
from membership in the Bahá’í Faith.
They had been sentenced to death in
1991, and their sentences reconﬁrmed on
appeal by the Supreme Court in 1996.
In 2001, however, the chief of the judi­
cial branch reduced their sentences to
15 years in prison for “association with
Bahá’í institutions.” Both men were released on 7 February 2004, hav­
ing served out their full sentences.
The stories behind the two most recent executions — in 1998 and
1992 — reﬂect the arbitrary and terrifying nature of the threat.
Ruhu’llah Rawhani, a father of four and an active Bahá’í during
his entire life, suffered through the indignities of religious persecution
tember 2001) reveals the underlying judicial issues:
“In principle, the foundation for the Ministry of
Intelligence taking legal and serious action against the
cultural activities of the misguided sect of Baha’ism
has been on the order of His Excellency the Supreme
Leader.… The action taken by Court 49 regarding the
seizure and conﬁscation of the properties belonging to
the misguided sect of Baha’ism is legally and religiously
justiﬁable.… Such opposition [however] must be car­
ried out in a manner and within a framework through
which the rights of the righteous [literally, ‘those to
Ruhu’llah Rawhani, who
was hanged in Mashad by
government authorities on 21
July 1998.
CHAPTER III: The Current Situation | 45

throughout much of Iran’s recent history. In 1984, Mr. Rawhani was
arrested and imprisoned for more than a year, during which he was
tortured, according to relatives. He was subsequently released but then
was arrested a second time in the mid-1990s. The charge was appar­
ently related to his volunteer work at purely religious activities, such as
prayer meetings and children’s classes. He was released after 24 hours.
In September 1997, however, the medical supplies salesman was
arrested for a third time, and placed in solitary conﬁnement in Mash­
had. Mr. Rawhani had been accused of “converting” a woman from
Islam to the Bahá’í Faith. The woman, however, denied that she had
converted; she explained that her mother was a Bahá’í and that she
herself had been raised as a Bahá’í. She was not arrested.
Mr. Rawhani was kept incommunicado for the duration of his
imprisonment and no information is available regarding his treatment
in prison. There is no evidence that he was accorded any legal process,
and no sentence was announced. It appears certain that he was not
allowed access to a lawyer.
On 20 July 1998, someone from the Iranian Intelligence Depart­
ment telephoned a Bahá’í in Mashhad stating that Mr. Rawhani was
to be executed the next day. Initially, this statement was not believed,
as Bahá’ís in Iran have received similar calls previously in apparent
attempts to frighten them.
The next morning, the family was called, told to come to the prison
whom rights are due’] would be safeguarded and pro­
tected.”
In yet another recent case, a Bahá’í appealed for the
return of his home, conﬁscated because of its alleged
use as a venue for teaching about the Bahá’í Faith, and
for holding classes of the Bahá’í Institute for Higher
Education. In rejecting the appeal, the Islamic Revolu­
tionary Court upheld the decision of a lower court on
the grounds that the owner had held Bahá’í classes in
this home and that over 900 volumes of Bahá’í books
46 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

to collect Mr. Rawhani’s body, and given an hour to bury him. Rope
marks on his neck indicated he had been hanged.
Bahman Samandari, a Tehran businessman, was executed in March
1992. Mr. Samandari, who ran a well-known Tehran travel agency, was
summoned without explanation to Evin
prison by authorities on 17 March 1992.
The next day, he was secretly executed.
No official charge or verdict was
announced, and inquiries by family
members produced vague indications
that Mr. Samandari’s execution was
related to his previous detention more
than four years before, when he and four
other Bahá’ís were arrested for having a
prayer meeting in his home.
In addition to these government-
sponsored executions, Bahá’ís have also
recently been killed under circumstances
that indicate continuing disregard for
Bahá’ís as individuals who deserve pro­
tection under the law.
had been found there. A further attempt to obtain
redress was also denied, as Branch 23 of the Appeals
Court in Tehran declared the verdict ﬁnal and ended
all legal recourse in this case.
Such verdicts demonstrate that the Iranian authori­
ties continue to consider the Bahá’í Faith as an illegal
movement and legitimize, through the courts, viola­
tions against the rights of Iranian citizens who are
members of the Bahá’í community.
Mr. Bahman Samandari,
who was summarily executed
by the Government in
March 1992.
CHAPTER III: The Current Situation | 47

48 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

Chapter IV
“TO KILL A BAHÁ’Í IS A GOOD DEED…”

How the contemporary
persecutions started
L
ONG BEFORE THE targeting of innocents
by suicide bombers and the gruesome web-
cast of “inﬁdel” executions on the Internet
became commonplace, the Bahá’í commu­
nity of Iran faced and survived a horriﬁc
campaign of killing, torture and imprisonment that had
been inspired by religious fanaticism.
In 1982, in the village of Rahimkhani, armed assail­
ants broke into the home of Askar Muhammadi and
shot him in the back. Confronted by Mr. Muhammadi’s
brother as they were leaving the scene of the crime, the
murderers stated simply: “He was a Bahá’í, and to kill a
Bahá’í is a good deed for devout Muslims.”
While many Iranians hailed the establishment of
the Islamic Republic of Iran in 1979 as the dawn of a
long awaited era of political liberty and national recon­
struction, it was clear from the start that the Bahá’ís
would be unjustly reviled for their beliefs.
Funeral of Hashin Farnush, arrested 5 November 1980,
executed 23 June 1981. His wife is shown kneeling down
at his graveside in Tehran.
“He was a Bahá’í,
and to kill a Bahá’í
is a good deed for
devout Muslims.”
CHAPTER IV: “To kill a Bahá’í is a good deed...” | 49

Even before Ayatollah Khomeini returned from
exile to assume power in February of that year, an
increase in attacks on Bahá’ís presaged the wholesale
persecution that was to come. In 1978 at least seven
Bahá’ís were killed, most as a result of mob violence.
When the Republic’s new constitution was drawn
up in April 1979, certain rights of the Christian, Jew­
ish and Zoroastrian minorities in Iran were speciﬁ­
cally mentioned and protected. However, no mention
whatsoever was made of the rights of the Bahá’í com­
munity, Iran’s largest religious minority.
Under Iran’s concept of an Islamic government,
this exclusion has come to mean that Bahá’ís enjoy
no rights of any sort, and that they can be attacked
and persecuted with impunity. Courts in the Republic
have denied Bahá’ís the right of redress or protection
against assault, killings or other forms of persecution
— and have ruled that Iranian citizens who kill or
injure Bahá’ís are not liable for damages because their
victims are “unprotected inﬁdels.”
Without any claim to civil rights, the Bahá’í com­
munity saw rapid deterioration of its position within
Iranian society. In March 1979, the House of the Báb,
the holiest Bahá’í shrine in Iran, was turned over by
the government to a Muslim cleric known for his
anti-Bahá’í activities. In September, the house was
destroyed by a mob led by mullahs and ofﬁcials of the
Department of Religious Affairs.
A November 1979 edict from the Ministry of Edu­
cation required not only the dismissal of all Bahá’í
teachers, but also held them responsible for the repay­
ment of all salaries they had previously received.
Courts in the Islamic
Republic have
denied Bahá’ís the
right of redress or
protection against
assault, killings
or other forms of
persecution — and
have ruled that
Iranian citizens
who kill or injure
Bahá’ís are not
liable for damages
because their victims
are “unprotected
inﬁdels.”
50 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

At least seven Bahá’ís were killed in 1979. Two were
executed by the government and one was hanged in
prison. Others were beaten to death or killed in local
incidents.
“To cut oﬀ the head...”
Buoyed by their growing inﬂuence over all aspects of
Iranian life, in 1980 the clergy moved “to cut off the
head” of the “heretical” Bahá’í movement by destroying
its leadership, believing that the majority of the Bahá’ís
would then succumb to social pressures to recant their
Faith.
This policy is reﬂected in the fact that nearly half the
Bahá’ís executed in Iran since 1979 have been members
of national and local governing councils of the Bahá’í
community, known as Spiritual Assemblies.
The execution on 27 June 1980 of Yusuf Sobhani, a
highly regarded member of the Tehran Bahá’í commu­
nity, was among the ﬁrst of such killings that targeted
Bahá’í leadership. This was followed by the executions
of the chairman and another member of the local Spir­
itual Assembly of Tabriz on 14 July 1980, a member of
the Spiritual Assembly of Rasht on 16 July 1980, and
two prominent Bahá’í spokesmen in Tehran on 30 July
and 15 August 1980.
On 21 August 1980, all nine members of the
national Bahá’í governing council, the National Spiri­
tual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Iran, were abducted
and disappeared without a trace. It seems certain that
they were executed.
During 1980 at least 24 Bahá’ís were killed in Iran;
The nine members of
the National Spiritual
Assembly who were
kidnapped in 1980.
CHAPTER IV: “To kill a Bahá’í is a good deed...” | 51

20 were executed by the government and the rest were
stoned, assassinated or burned to death.
Despite a growing international outcry, the rate of
executions continued to grow through 1981. By late
summer that year, revolutionary courts were openly
sentencing Bahá’ís to death purely on religious grounds
and announcing the fact in Iranian media. The Attor­
ney General, Siyyid Moussavi-Tabrizi, stated explicitly:
“The Qur’an recognized only the People of the Book as
religious communities. Others are pagans. Pagans must
be eliminated.” Under Islamic law in Iran, “People of
the Book” include only Muslims, Jews, Christians and,
by special dispensation, Zoroastrians.
The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of
Iran was reconstituted through new elections but was
again ravaged by the execution of eight of its members
on 27 December 1981. In all at least 48 Bahá’ís were
killed in Iran during 1981; of those, all but two were
executed by the government.
Executions continued apace through 1982, 1983 and
1984. At least 32 Bahá’ís were executed or killed in
1982, 29 were executed or killed in 1983, and 30 were
executed or killed in 1984. And, again, the targets of
Faramarz Samandari,
with his wife Anita,
and children. He was a
physician and professor at
the University of Tabriz.
He was excuted in Tabriz
on 13 July 1980.
“The Qur’an
recognized only
the People of the
Book as religious
communities. Others
are pagans. Pagans
must be eliminated.”
— Iranian Attorney
General Siyyid
Moussavi-Tabrizi
52 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

these executions were often members of Bahá’í govern­
ing councils. Four members of the National Spiritual
Assembly, which had once again been courageously
re-established through fresh elections, were executed
in 1984, although by then the institution had been dis­
banded in accordance with a government decree and
the individuals held no ofﬁcial position in the Bahá’í
community. [See Appendix I for a complete list of those
who have been killed or executed.]
One of the most dramatic groups of executions came
in June 1983, when ten Iranian Bahá’í women, including
two teen-age girls, were hanged. The primary charge
against them: teaching Bahá’í children’s classes. [See
page 54.]
The women were subjected to intense physical and
mental abuse in an effort to coerce them to recant their
Faith — an option that was almost always pressed
upon Bahá’í prisoners. Yet, like most Bahá’ís who have
been arrested in Iran, they refused to deny their beliefs.
Nevertheless, the fact that so many Bahá’ís were given
the option of recanting, with the promise of release
if they did so, is among the strongest proofs that the
persecutions were based solely on religious beliefs.
Imprisonment and Torture
Since 1979, nearly 1,000 Bahá’ís have been arrested and
imprisoned. At one point in 1986, some 747 Bahá’ís
were being held in prisons throughout Iran. In most
cases, they had no trials.
The torture of Bahá’ís in Iranian prisons — and
particularly of those who had been members of Bahá’í
governing councils — was routine and systematic.
Again, according to Bahá’ís who survived, the pur­
pose of the torture almost invariably was to make the
Bahá’ís recant their Faith or confess to some treason­
ous activity.
The torture of
Bahá’ís in Iranian
prisons — and
particularly of
those who had been
members of Bahá’í
governing councils
— was routine and
systematic. Again,
according to Bahá’ís
who survived,
the purpose of the
torture almost
invariably was to
make the Bahá’ís
recant their Faith
or confess to some
treasonous activity.
CHAPTER IV: “To kill a Bahá’í is a good deed...” | 53

Hanged for teaching “Sunday school”
F
EW INCIDENTS ARE more shocking — or revealing of the re­
ligious basis of the persecution against Bahá’ís and the courage
with which they faced it — than the group hanging of ten Bahá’í
women in Shiraz on 18 June 1983.
Their crime: teaching religious classes to Bahá’í youth — the equiv­
alent of being “Sunday school” teachers in the West.
Ranging in age from 17 to 57, the ten Bahá’í women were led to
the gallows in succession. Authorities apparently hoped that as each
saw the others slowly strangle to death, they would renounce their
own faith.
But according to eyewitness reports, the women went to their fate
singing and chanting, as though they were enjoying a pleasant outing.
One of the men attending the gallows conﬁded to a Bahá’í: “We
tried saving their lives up to the last moment, but one by one, ﬁrst the
older ladies, then the young girls, were hanged while the others were
forced to watch, it being hoped that this might induce them to recant
their belief. We even urged them to say they were not Bahá’ís, but not
one of them agreed; they preferred the execution.”
All of the women had been interrogated and tortured in the months
leading up to their execution. Indeed, some had wounds still visible on
their bodies as they lay in the morgue after their execution.
The youngest of these martyrs was Muna Mahmudnizhad, a
17-year-old schoolgirl who because of her youth and conspicuous
Muna
Mahmudnizhad
Mahshid
Nirumand
Simin Sabiri
Zarrin Muqimi-
Abyánih
Akhtar Thabit
54 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

innocence became, in a sense, a symbol of the group. In prison, she
was lashed on the soles of her feet with a cable and forced to walk on
bleeding feet.
Yet she never waivered in her faith, even to the point of kissing the
hands of her executioner, and then the rope, before putting it around
her own throat.
Another young woman, Zarrin Muqimi-Abyanih, 28, told the inter­
rogators whose chief goal was to have her disavow her faith: “Whether
you accept it or not, I am a Bahá’í. You cannot take it away from me. I
am a Bahá’í with my whole being and my whole heart.”
During the trial of another of the women, Ruya Ishraqi, a 23-year-
old veterinary student, the judge said: “You put yourselves through
this agony only for one word: just say you are not a Bahá’í and I’ll see
that...you are released...” Ms. Ishraqi responded: “I will not exchange
my faith for the whole world.”
The names of the other women hanged on 18 June 1983 were: Sha­
hin Dalvand, 25, a sociologist; Izzat Janami Ishraqi, 57, a homemaker;
Mahshid Nirumand, 28, who had qualiﬁed for a degree in physics but
had it denied her because she was a Bahá’í; Simin Sabiri, 25; Tahirih
Arjumandi Siyavushi, 30, a nurse; Akhtar Thabit, 25, also a nurse; Nus­
rat Ghufrani Yalda’i, 47, a mother and member of the local Bahá’í
Spiritual Assembly.
All had seen it as their duty to teach Bahá’í religious classes — espe­
cially since the government had barred Bahá’í children from attending
even regular school.
Shahin (Shirin)
Dalvand
Ruya Ishraqi
Izzat Ishraqi
(Janami)
Tahirih Siyavushi
Nusrat Yalda’i
CHAPTER IV: “To kill a Bahá’í is a good deed...” | 55

Torture included sustained beating and ﬂogging,
the bastinado (whipping the soles of the feet), the pull­
ing out of ﬁngernails and teeth, and the deprivation of
food and water for days at a time.
Bahá’ís were also subjected to psychological torture,
including mock executions and being forced to witness
the torture of family members and friends.
Thus an elderly Bahá’í woman, who was a member
of a local Bahá’í council, was tortured in front of a
dozen other Bahá’ís in an effort to persuade her and
them to deny their Faith. The woman’s jailer took her
by her hair and continually banged her head against
the wall. She was beaten about the head for a long
time, until her body was covered with blood. After two
years of imprisonment, she was summarily released,
with no recourse against the abuse she had received.
At least 13 Bahá’ís who died in prison are believed
to have been tortured to death. In these cases, the bod­
ies were buried by the authorities before the families
could view them.
Two of the most recent cases involving torture and
intimidation took place in July 1997.
Masha’llah Enayati, a 63-year-old Bahá’í resident of
Tehran, died on 4 July 1997, after being severely beaten
while in custody. During a visit to his native village of
Ardistan to attend a Bahá’í meeting, Mr. Enayati was
arrested under circumstances which are not clear. He
was taken to prison in Isfahan, where he was severely
beaten on all parts of the body. It appears that he was
held in prison for about a week before being taken to a
hospital, where he eventually died. Mr. Enayati’s death
certiﬁcate is worded in a most unusual way, suggesting
that the doctor himself may have been under threat.
Under “cause of death” the doctor entered in his own
handwriting, “will be known later.”
Shahram Reza’i, a young Bahá’í serving as a con­
script in the Iranian army on a military base near the
Bahá’ís were
also subjected
to psychological
torture, including
mock executions
and being forced to
witness the torture
of family members
and friends.
56 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

city of Rasht, was shot in the head by his superior
ofﬁcer on 6 July 1997 and died the following day. The
ofﬁcer concerned, who was responsible for weapons
training, maintained that the bullets were ﬁred in error.
He was released after a few days, once it was deter­
mined that the dead soldier was a Bahá’í. The court
excused the ofﬁcer from paying the blood money nor­
mally required in such instances, ordering him to pay
just the cost of the three bullets used to kill Mr. Reza’i.
Mr. Reza’i was the seventh Bahá’í in Iran engaged in
compulsory military service to have been slain by ofﬁ­
cers or other soldiers.
Social and Economic Intimidation
As noted earlier, the authorities have also conducted a
campaign of economic, social and cultural intimidation
against the Bahá’í community of Iran. The objective, it
is clear, has been to deprive Bahá’ís of their rights to
education, to jobs and to homes of their own — once
again with the intention of forcing them to recant.
A woman from Kata, murdered by a mob in 1979, shown
with her two younger sisters.
CHAPTER IV: “To kill a Bahá’í is a good deed...” | 57

Since the 1930s, the Bahá’ís in Iran have been for­
bidden to run their own educational establishments,
and have therefore educated their children at state-run
schools and universities where they have often suffered
discrimination and persecution.
The level of discrimination and persecution in
schools rose sharply following the Islamic revolution
in 1979. In 1981, an ofﬁcial decree was issued barring
Bahá’í students and professors from admission to or
employment at any university in Iran. Universities
published new prospectuses in 1981 requiring that
applicants belong to one of the four religions recog­
nized in the constitution, namely the Muslim, Jewish,
Christian or Zoroastrian religions.
Admission to primary and secondary schools was
refused to those who identiﬁed themselves as Bahá’ís,
and hundreds of students were expelled.
Deprivation of Employment
The Iranian government has also sought to intimidate
and stiﬂe Bahá’ís by making it impossible for them to
earn a living.
In 1979 the government started dismissing all Bahá’í
civil servants without compensation. By July 1982, all
Bahá’í public servants had been dismissed and the
pensions of all retired Bahá’í civil servants had been
terminated.
In late 1984, the Attorney General started issuing
summonses demanding that all those Bahá’í civil ser­
vants who had been dismissed repay salaries they had
received during their employment. They were threat­
ened with imprisonment if they did not comply. Obvi­
ously, repayment of a lifetime’s wages was beyond the
means of most victims. Many were imprisoned as a
result of failure to meet this absurd demand.
The government has also systematically sought to
Government document
of permanent dismissal
from employment for
being a Bahá’í.
58 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

drive Bahá’ís in the private sector to economic ruin.
In the early 1980s, the trading licenses of most Bahá’í
businessmen were revoked, the assets of businesses
run by Bahá’ís were conﬁscated, and bank accounts of
most Bahá’í businessmen were frozen. In addition, the
authorities intimidated private employers into dismiss­
ing many Bahá’í employees.
Almost every dismissal notice served on a Bahá’í
employee, whether in the public or the private sector,
stated that the reason for dismissal was membership in
the Bahá’í Faith and that the individual’s job would be
restored if he or she would recant his or her faith.
In addition to depriving Bahá’ís of a livelihood,
the government in the early 1980s sought to deprive
arrested Bahá’ís of many of their possessions, including
their homes.
Through its takeover of the major Bahá’í savings
company, Nawnahalan — literally meaning “new
plant,” a reference to the fact that the savings insti­
tution was started by Bahá’í children at the turn of
the century — the government in one move swept
away the life savings of 15,000 Bahá’í shareholders and
investors. In addition, thousands of Bahá’ís, rich and
poor alike, have had their homes and personal posses­
sions conﬁscated by the government, and thousands
more have had their homes destroyed by arson and
looting. In rural areas, the authorities have encouraged
the plunder and destruction of the livestock and crops
of Bahá’í farmers.
Conﬁscation of Community Assets
The Bahá’í community in Iran has never been allowed to
hold community property in its own name. As a result,
all community property has been held in the name of a
non-proﬁt company created for this purpose. This body,
the Umana — meaning “Trustee” — Company, was
In the early 1980s,
the trading licenses
of most Bahá’í
businessmen were
revoked, the assets
of businesses run
by Bahá’ís were
conﬁscated, and
bank accounts
of most Bahá’í
businessmen were
frozen.
CHAPTER IV: “To kill a Bahá’í is a good deed...” | 59

How Iran has justiﬁed the persecution
I
NEVITABLY, IRAN’S RESPONSES to the world outcry on behalf of the
Bahá’ís have proven entirely unsatisfactory. The reaction has ranged
from simple silence to attempts to justify the persecutions by charg­
ing the Bahá’ís with a wide variety of offenses.
An examination of the charges that have been made against the
Bahá’ís illuminates the depth of animosity and prejudice directed
towards them — as well as the degree of ignorance regarding the basic
principles and history of the Bahá’í Faith.
Despite the overwhelming proof that the Bahá’í community in Iran
is being persecuted solely because of its religious beliefs, the Iranian
government continues — in both public and private forums — to jus­
tify its behavior with unsubstantiated accusations.
Here follow some of the principal accusations advanced by the gov­
ernment:
THE ACCUSATION: That Bahá’ís were supporters of the Pahlavi
regime and the late Shah of Iran; that they collaborated with SAVAK,
the secret police; and that the Bahá’í Faith is a political organization
opposed to the present Iranian government.
THE REALITY: Bahá’ís are required by the basic principles of their
Faith to show loyalty and obedience to the government of the country
in which they live. The Bahá’í community in Iran thus did not oppose
the Pahlavi regime, just as it does not oppose the present government
of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Indeed, members of the community
allowed to administer such properties without undue
interference until the change of government in 1979.
One of the ﬁrst acts of the new government was
to conﬁscate the Umana Company and all its hold­
ings. This meant that in one stroke all Bahá’í com­
munity properties were arbitrarily transferred to the
state without compensation. The government also
60 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

have obeyed every law and instruction of the present government,
including the instruction to disband all Bahá’í administrative institu­
tions in Iran.
Bahá’í principles also require the avoidance of any form of involve­
ment in partisan politics. Accordingly, Iranian Bahá’ís were precluded
by membership in their faith from accepting cabinet posts or similar
political positions under the Pahlavi regime. They did not collaborate
with SAVAK. On the contrary, the Pahlavi regime consistently perse­
cuted the Bahá’í Faith, and SAVAK was one of the main agencies of
this persecution.
The Iranian government has alleged that certain SAVAK ofﬁcials
were Bahá’ís. These allegations are completely untrue, fabricated to
mask the religious nature of the persecutions.
Indeed, the non-political nature of the Bahá’í case was signifi­
cantly bolstered by the 1996 report of the UN Special Rapporteur on
Religious Intolerance. Professor Abdelfattah Amor of Tunisia wrote:
“With regard to the Bahá’ís, the Special Rapporteur hopes that a clear
distinction will be drawn between questions of belief or other ques­
tions of a political nature. In that connection, it should not be pre­
sumed that the entire community has been politicized or is engaged
in political or espionage activities. Considering the religious principles
of the Bahá’í community, the Special Rapporteur believes that there
should not be any controls that might, through prohibition, restric­
tions or discrimination, jeopardize the right to freedom of belief or the
right to manifest one’s belief.”
conﬁscated the assets of all Bahá’í welfare agencies,
which provided services to people of all religions on
an equal basis.
Among the government’s next steps were to des­
ecrate and in many cases destroy Bahá’í holy places
throughout Iran. As noted, these properties include
the holiest Bahá’í shrine in Iran, the House of the Báb
(continued on page 62)
CHAPTER IV: “To kill a Bahá’í is a good deed...” | 61

THE ACCUSATION: That Bahá’ís are heretics or enemies of Islam.
THE REALITY: Such charges are false. The Bahá’í Faith is widely rec­
ognized as an independent world religion — even by Islamic scholars.
As long ago as 1924, a Sunni appellate court in Egypt recognized that
the Bahá’í Faith was an independent world religion, stating that, in its
judgment, “The Bahá’í Faith is a new religion entirely independent....
No Bahá’í therefore can be regarded as Muslim or vice versa, even
as no Buddhist, Brahmin or Christian can be regarded as Muslim.”
Accordingly, no charge of heresy can be made.
Bahá’ís revere Muhammad and His Book, the Qur’an, as they do
Jesus, Buddha, and the founders of the other great religions. Indeed,
alone among the followers of the world’s other major independent reli­
gions, only Bahá’ís recognize the station of Muhammad as a Prophet
of God.
THE ACCUSATION: That Bahá’ís are agents of Zionism.
THE REALITY: This charge is based on the fact that the Bahá’í World
Centre is in Israel. The Bahá’í World Centre was, however, established
on Mt. Carmel in the 19th century, long before the State of Israel
came into existence, in accordance with the explicit instructions of
Bahá’u’lláh, who was exiled there from Iran.
THE ACCUSATION: That Bahá’ís are involved with prostitution,
adultery and immorality.
in Shiraz, which was conﬁscated and then destroyed.
The House of Bahá’u’lláh in Takur, where the Founder
of the Bahá’í Faith spent His childhood, met a similar
fate: it was demolished and the site was offered for sale
to the public.
In Tehran and other cities throughout Iran, Bahá’í
buildings were looted and burned, Bahá’í cemeteries
were bulldozed and Bahá’í graves were broken open.
62 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

THE REALITY: This charge, like the others, is without foundation.
Bahá’ís have a strict moral code and attach great importance to chas­
tity and to the institution of marriage.
The Bahá’í marriage ceremony is not recognized in Iran and no
civil marriage ceremony exists. Consequently, Bahá’ís have been faced
with the choice of denying their faith in order to be married according
to the rites of one of the religions recognized in Iran, or of marrying
in accordance with the rites of their own faith. They have consistently
chosen to be married in accordance with Bahá’í law. The government
does not recognize these marriages and denounces Bahá’í wives as
prostitutes.
The other charges of adultery and immorality against Bahá’ís are
based on the fact that, in accordance with the Bahá’í principle of the
equality of men and women, there is no segregation of the sexes at
Bahá’í gatherings.
THE ACCUSATION: That the Bahá’í Faith is not a religion but a
political movement, devised by colonial powers in the 1800s to inﬂu­
ence and control the Persian government.
THE REALITY: The Bahá’í Faith has been widely recognized by West­
ern historians, religious leaders, and others as an independent world
religion. Its founding had nothing to do with the work of British or
other colonial powers. Moreover, as noted, the teachings of the Faith
explicitly prohibit Bahá’ís from involvement in partisan politics.
In Tehran, as noted earlier, the Bahá’ís have long
been forced to bury their dead in a barren stretch of
land reserved by the authorities for “inﬁdels.” Having
access to their own cemeteries is especially important
to Bahá’ís because, as might be expected, they are not
allowed to bury their dead in Muslim cemeteries.
CHAPTER IV: “To kill a Bahá’í is a good deed...” | 63

64 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

Chapter V
THE HISTORICAL
BACKGROUND
T
HE PRESENT DAY status of human rights
and social reform in the Islamic Republic
of Iran cannot be adequately understood
without taking into account the histori­
cal background of persecution against
the Bahá’í community — a history that does much to
explain the cultural crisis gripping Iranian society to­
day as its leadership struggles to face the challenge of
modernity.
The Bahá’í Faith has been persecuted in Iran since
its founding there in the mid-1800s. Early followers
faced violent opposition from both the Islamic reli­
gious authorities and succeeding dynasties. It has been
estimated that some 20,000 persons perished in these
pogroms during the nineteenth century.
Early followers faced
violent opposition
from both the
Islamic religious
authorities and
succeeding dynasties.
The illustration at top left, depicting the death of an early
Bahá’í, appeared in the Persian magazine, Ima’mat,
circa 1911. The photo bottom left, a Bahá’í father and son
(left) in chains after being arrested with fellow Bahá’ís
shown in a photograph taken around 1896. Both were
subsequently executed.
CHAPTER V: The Historical Background | 65

The persecutions have continued intermittently
in the twentieth century, coinciding most often with
the need of various governments to shore up support
with certain elements of Iran’s Islamic leadership.
And they have come regardless of the leaders’ politi­
cal orientation.
Some of the outbreaks against Bahá’ís were directed
by local or regional authorities. In 1903, for example,
101 Bahá’ís were killed in the city of Yazd after the
populace was incited by hostile mullahs. At other
times the oppression of Bahá’ís was made a part of
ofﬁcial national policy. During the early years of the
Pahlavi regime (1927 to 1979), the government formal­
ized a policy of discrimination against the Bahá’ís as
a concession to the clergy. Beginning in 1933, Bahá’í
literature was banned, Bahá’í marriages were not rec­
ognized, and Bahá’ís in public service were demoted or
ﬁred. Bahá’í schools — of which there were some 50 in
The takeover of the National Bahá’í Centre in Tehran
during the Khomeini regime, 1979.
66 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

the country — were forced to close.
Another round of persecutions commenced in
1955, when the Pahlavi regime allowed the nationwide
broadcast of a series of incendiary sermons against the
Bahá’ís by a leading Shia preacher in Tehran — appar­
ently hoping to make the Bahá’ís a scapegoat to deﬂect
attention from unpopular government policies. Both
the national and army radio stations were put at the
disposal of the responsible cleric, Sheikh Muham­
mad Taqi Falsaﬁ, who joined the Shah’s Minister of
Defense, General Batmangelich, in demolishing the
dome of Bahá’í national headquarters with pickaxes.
A wave of anti-Bahá’í violence swept the country.
Murders, rapes and robberies were reported in many
areas, while the government assured the Majlis that
it had ordered the suppression of all activities of “the
Bahá’í sect.”
Mullah Falsaﬁ supervising workmen in the act of
destroying the dome of the National Bahá’í Center
in 1955, Tehran.
CHAPTER V: The Historical Background | 67

Bahá’ís understand that this pattern of
persecution is a manifestation of the misun­
derstanding and fear that often occur when a
new religion emerges from the matrix of a well-
established orthodoxy. The pattern has been
repeated through the ages; virtually all of the
world’s great religions have faced intense per­
secution at their birth.
In the case of the Bahá’í Faith, the teachings
of its two Founders, especially when viewed
through the lens of traditional Islam, are as
challenging as those of any Prophet in ancient
times.
The initial wave of persecution came in
response to the claims of a young Iranian
merchant, known to history as the Báb, who
announced in Shiraz in May 1844 that He was
the bearer of a new revelation from God. His
primary mission, the Báb said, was to prepare
humanity for the advent of “Him Whom God
Shall Make Manifest,” the universal divine
Messenger anticipated in the scriptures of all the major
religions.
The teachings of the Báb called for the spiritual
and moral reformation of Persian society, and for the
upliftment of the station of women and the poor. His
promotion of education and the useful sciences was
also revolutionary. Such progressive and idealistic
teachings, which made a clear break with the Islamic
frame of reference, were rapidly embraced by thou­
sands of followers and were seen by both secular and
Successive stages of the demolition of the House
of the Báb. The ﬁrst image is an interior room in
early 1979; the second photo shows Revolutionary
Guards in the process of destruction; the third the
collapse of the roof.
68 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

religious authorities as a threat to their power.
Widespread persecutions ensued, and, as noted
above, some 20,000 believers, who were known
as Bábís, paid with their lives. The Báb Himself
was executed by the government in 1850.
Among the followers of the Báb was an
Iranian nobleman named Bahá’u’lláh. In 1863
He announced that He was the Messenger the
Báb had heralded, founding the Bahá’í Faith,
which develops and extends many of the teach­
ings and principles introduced by the Báb. The
central theme of Bahá’u’lláh’s message is that
humanity is a single race and that the day has
come for unification into one global society.
“The earth is but one country and mankind its
citizens,” wrote Bahá’u’lláh.
Bahá’u’lláh taught that there is only one
God, and that all of the world’s religions are
expressions of a single, unfolding divine plan,
“the changeless Faith of God, eternal in the
past, eternal in the future.”
Bahá’ís believe that God progressively reveals reli­
gious truth to humanity through a series of divine Mes­
sengers, each of Whom has founded a great religion.
These Messengers have included Abraham, Krishna,
Zoroaster, Moses, Buddha, Jesus and Muhammad; the
most recent are the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh. Others will
follow in ages to come.
The idea that there should be new Messengers of
God after Muhammad is viewed by many Muslims as
heresy. In the Qur’an, Muhammad referred to Himself
The area is completely razed in preparation for
the later construction of the Mosque of Mihdi.
The white circles on the images below indicate the
location of the House of the Báb. The last photo
shows the Mosque in 1994.
CHAPTER V: The Historical Background | 69

as the “Seal of the Prophets,” and most Muslim schol­
ars interpret this to mean that He would be the last
Messenger of God.
Bahá’ís, however, believe that the coming of the
Báb and Bahá’u’lláh poses no contradiction to Islamic
teachings or those of any of the other revealed reli­
gions. Bahá’ís understand that Muhammad ended or
“sealed” the prophetic cycle. Then, with the advent of
the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh, a new era of religious fulﬁll­
ment began. Bahá’u’lláh referred to this new period
in human history as the “stage of maturity.” Bahá’ís
believe that this is all in accordance with the prophe­
cies of Islam and the world’s other major religions.
Other aspects of the Bahá’í teachings also arouse
opposition among some followers of Islam. In outlin­
ing His vision for a new world civilization, Bahá’u’lláh
advocated a series of highly progressive social prin­
ciples. These include the elimination of all forms of
prejudice; equality between the sexes; the elimination
of extremes of poverty and wealth; universal education;
the harmony of science and religion; a sustainable bal­
ance between human society and the natural world;
and the establishment of a world federal system, based
on collective security and the oneness of humanity.
Some fundamentalist Muslims view the progres­
sive nature of these teachings, such as the equal­
ity of women and the absence of religious clergy, as
particularly antithetical to the traditions of Islam. To
Iran’s Shia establishment, especially — and also to
many among their Sunni Muslim counterparts — the
emergence of an independent religion that postdates
the Qur’an by almost thirteen centuries is not only
theologically abhorrent but threatens the system of
patronage, endowments, political inﬂuence, and social
perquisites to which they lay claim. The effect has been
to arouse in the Shia establishment a determination to
extinguish the new faith and suppress its followers.
Bahá’u’lláh taught
that there is only one
God, and that all of
the world’s religions
are expressions of
a single, unfolding
divine plan.
70 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

The persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran is not related
to any underlying issue of ethnicity or political agenda.
The overwhelming majority of Iranian Bahá’ís come
from the same Persian and Azerbaijani ethnic stock as
the rest of the population, and they represent a cross
section of Iran’s social classes.
Only their religious beliefs distinguish them from
their fellow countrymen — beliefs which the Bahá’í
teachings forbid them from imposing on others.
Paradoxically, because of the control exercised by the
Islamic clergy over the media of communication, the
nature of Bahá’í beliefs remains virtually unknown to
a public that has been systematically taught to fear and
hate them.
The Iranian Bahá’í community has itself consistently
been denied the use of any means of mass communica­
tion, including radio, television, newspapers, ﬁlms, the
distribution of literature and public lectures. The result
has been widespread, unreasoning prejudice.
CHAPTER V: The Historical Background | 71
The words, “Enemy
of Islam,” were found
written on the leg of
Dr. Masih Farhangi, a
Bahá’í who was executed
in Tehran on 24 June 1981.

The international response
T
HE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY has responded to the per­
secution of the Bahá’í community in Iran with overwhelming
sympathy, expressing concern for the Bahá’ís and condemnation
of the Iranian government. The Bahá’í community believes that this
outpouring has been a strong restraining force against the government,
preventing a pogrom on a much greater scale.
The United Nations Commission on Human Rights has passed
more than 20 resolutions expressing concern about reports of human
rights violations in Iran, and each has made speciﬁc mention of the
situation of the Bahá’í community there. [See Appendix II]. The speciﬁc
reference to a religious community is quite unusual for the Commis­
sion, which normally conﬁnes itself to expressions of diplomatic con­
cern and general references to charges of human rights violations and
discrimination.
Following the lead of the Commission on Human Rights, the
United Nations General Assembly itself has since 1985 approved some
17 resolutions that have speciﬁcally mentioned the situation of the
Bahá’ís in Iran and expressed concern over reports of human rights
violations there.
Virtually all of these resolutions have called on Iran to stop vio­
lating the rights of Bahá’ís and to abide by the various international
covenants on human rights that the government has freely signed. UN
resolutions have also called explicitly for the “emancipation” of the
Bahá’ís of Iran.
Among the most salient features of the United Nations’ attention
to the Bahá’í case has been the continuing investigations conducted
by a succession of highly regarded human rights specialists. Each
was appointed by the Commission on Human Rights and given the
mandate to probe into the human rights situation in Iran. And each
has reported extensively on the real and serious nature of the persecu­
tion of the Bahá’ís of Iran, lending unimpeachable credibility to the
Bahá’í case.
The ﬁrst Special Representative of the Commission on Human
Rights, as these investigators are called, was Andres Aguilar of
72 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

Venezuela, who was appointed in 1984. After his
resignation in 1986, Reynaldo Galindo Pohl, a law
professor and human rights expert from El Salva­
dor, was appointed to the position. Following Mr.
Galindo Pohl’s departure in 1994, the Commission
appointed Maurice Copithorne, a noted Cana­
dian jurist, as its Special Representative for Iran.
Unfortunately, as part of an effort to engage Iran
in a “human rights dialogue,” the Commission on
Human Rights stopped appointing Special Repre­
sentatives in 2002. And in many respects, the situa­
tion has grown worse since that time.
Nevertheless, the Commission’s Special Repre­
sentatives have produced over the years a series of extremely impor­
tant and inﬂuential reports to the United Nations on the situation in
Iran. Gathering their information from a variety of sources and — in
at least four cases — making visits to Iran, Special Representatives
have managed to catalogue the whole range of abuses and persecu­
tions which the Bahá’í community in Iran has experienced.
For example, Mr. Galindo Pohl’s 1990 report to the General Assem­
bly noted that he had received extensive documentation that provides
“evidence of discrimination, conﬁscation, rejection by universities, sus­
pension of pensions, demands for the return of pensions earned and
paid, denial of passports and other irregularities.”
The report added that “it would seem that the attitude towards the
Bahá’ís and their situation depends on the temperament and personal
convictions of individual ofﬁcials. This keeps the Bahá’ís in a perpetual
state of uncertainty about their activities.”
In Mr. Copithorne’s 1998 report to the General Assembly, he
wrote that continuing reports of violations of human rights against
the Bahá’ís force him “to conclude that the pattern of persecution of
members of this community has not abated.”
And in his last report, released in 2002, Mr. Copithorne said that
while there had been “some hopeful signs” concerning the “commu­
tation of death sentences” and “the release of prisoners,” the Bahá’í
community “continues to be subject to harassment and discrimination
in the areas of, inter alia, education, employment, travel, housing and
Diane Ala’i, a Bahá’í
International Community
representative to the United
Nations, addresses the UN
Commission on Human
Rights in Geneva.
CHAPTER V: The Historical Background | 73

the enjoyment of cultural activities.” Seven Bahá’ís were in prison at
that time, he said, and “Bahá’í property continues to be subject to
conﬁscation.”
Of interest, Mr. Copithorne also expressed a conviction that the
“Bahá’í Question” policy is still operative.
Also of concern is the sentence issued by a judge of the Supreme
Ofﬁce of Control and Review, Hamzih Khalili, on 15 September 2001,
in the context of an appeal by the Muslim owners of property rented
to the Baha’is that was conﬁscated in 1998. According to an unofﬁcial
translation to which the Special Representative has had access, the
verdict declares that the “seizure and conﬁscation of the properties
belonging to the misguided sect of Baha’ism is legally and religiously
justiﬁable” and states that “the cultural activities of the misguided
sect of Baha’ism — as prescribed by the order of His Excellency the
Supreme Leader — do need to be seriously opposed”. This would
seem to indicate that the 1991 memorandum on “The Baha’i Ques­
tion”, issued by the Supreme Revolutionary Cultural Council and
approved by the Supreme Leader, is still in force and therefore that
discrimination against Baha’is continues to be ofﬁcial practice, a
situation the Special Representative deeply deplores.
As well, in 1996, United Nations support for the Bahá’í case was
further strengthened by the release of a report by the UN’s Special
Rapporteur on Religious Intolerance, which called on Iran to end its
ban on Bahá’í institutions and other oppressive measures. Authored by
Professor Abdelfattah Amor, a noted Tunisian legal expert, the report
explicitly stated that the persecution of the Bahá’ís was based on reli­
gious intolerance.
More recently, in 2003, the Special Rapporteur on Religious Intol­
erance took note of the continuing conﬁscations, imprisonments, and
efforts to block Bahá’í youth from receiving higher education, and
concluded:
While noting some promised improvements in treatment of the
Baha’i minority, the Special Rapporteur is of the view that the
measures taken by the Iranian authorities to end the persecution
of Baha’is, including by non-State entities, and to guarantee them
the same rights as any other Iranian citizen are still inadequate. He
74 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

again reminds the Iranian authorities of the need to ensure respect
for the relevant provisions of international law, including article 18
of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and
the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance
and Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief. In addition, as a
religious minority, Baha’is are entitled to the respect due to all other
religious minorities.
In addition to efforts by the United Nations and its subsidiary bod­
ies and agencies, numerous national legislatures and regional bodies
have spoken out against Iran’s treatment of the Bahá’í community over
the last twenty years. Expressions of concern for Iran’s Bahá’ís have
come from the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, and from
the legislatures of Australia, Brazil, Canada, Italy, the Netherlands,
Norway, the United Kingdom, and the United States of America,
among others. Many heads of state and government leaders have also
voiced their dismay over Iran’s treatment of the Bahá’ís.
International and national non-governmental organizations have
also risen to the defense of Iran’s Bahá’ís. Amnesty International, the
Minority Rights Group, and Middle East Watch, among others, have
closely monitored the situation of the Bahá’ís in Iran and published
extensive reports that conﬁrm the persecutions there.
The world’s news media, as well, have reported extensively on the
persecution of Iran’s Bahá’í community. Major articles and editorials
which detail, conﬁrm and condemn the persecutions have appeared in
Le Monde, the Times of London, the New York Times, the Washington
Post, the Economist, the Times of India, and the Sydney Morning Herald
— as well as smaller and lesser known newspapers such as the Uganda
Times, the Papua New Guinea Post Courier, the Straits Times of Singa­
pore, and La Republica in Panama City. The Associated Press, Reuters,
and the Agence France-Presse have also carried numerous dispatches
on the persecution of Bahá’ís in Iran and the response of international
organizations and agencies.
In many respects the Bahá’í case has been a model for how inter­
national human rights machinery can be used to protect an oppressed
minority. Thanks to international support for the Bahá’ís, the wholesale
genocide of the Bahá’í community in Iran has so far been prevented.
CHAPTER V: The Historical Background | 75

Chapter VI
CONCLUSION AND
SUMMARY
T
HE WORLDWIDE BAHÁ’Í community is
today one of the most diverse and wide­
spread organizations on earth. Compris­
ing individuals from virtually every na­
tion, ethnic group, trade, profession, and
social or economic class, more than ﬁve million follow­
ers of the Bahá’í Faith reside in at least 235 countries
and territories. They represent some 2,100 different
tribes, racial and ethnic groups, and come from every
religious background: Christian, Muslim, Hindu,
Buddhist, Jewish, Zoroastrian, Sikh, Jain, and animist,
as well as from non-religious backgrounds.
Yet in the land where their religion originated,
Bahá’ís continue to face a campaign of systematic,
centrally directed persecution. At best, by denying
them basic rights and freedoms, the government hopes
merely to block the growth and development of the
Bahá’í community, while keeping it as a ready scape­
goat for its own failures. At worst, the government
harbors the goal of exterminating the Bahá’í commu­
nity as a viable entity in Iran and erasing all traces of
its culture.
76 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

During the 1980s Bahá’ís were executed, tortured,
imprisoned, deprived of jobs, pensions and educa­
tional opportunities — solely because of their religious
beliefs. In the 1990s some aspects of this persecution
subsided as a result of international pressure. However,
in 1993 came the exposure of a secret governmental
plan to suffocate the Bahá’í community.
Subsequent actions — ranging from random kill­
ings, revolving door imprisonment, arbitrary arrest
and harassment, denial of access to higher education,
the destruction of important Bahá’í holy sites, and the
continued efforts to deprive Bahá’ís of their livelihood
— reveal the Iranian government’s intention of con­
tinuing its efforts to destroy the Bahá’í community
without attracting international attention.
Indeed, as of the time of publication of this book­
let, the signs point only towards increasing problems
for Iran’s innocent Bahá’ís. The arbitrary arrests and
detentions of some 35 Bahá’ís around the country in
March, April and May 2005 exemplify the worsening
situation. Held incommunicado for periods ranging
from one week to three months, these prisoners were
held without any formal charges while personal pos­
sessions were seized by government agents from their
homes in wanton searches. Other incidents in Yazd in
January and February, involving the beating of several
Bahá’ís and the burning of a Bahá’í-owned business,
along with other short term arrests and detentions,
point to ominous signs for the future.
For most people, whatever their religious back­
ground, the continued campaign against the Bahá’ís
deﬁes rational explanation. The Bahá’í community in
Iran poses no threat to the Iranian authorities. The
fundamental principles of the Bahá’í Faith require its
followers to be obedient to their government and to
avoid partisan political involvement, subversive activ­
ity, and all forms of violence.
On the Bahá’í
question, the
Iranian government
has been utterly
silent. There has
been no admission
of the government’s
campaign against
Iran’s Bahá’í
community and
the need for reform
that it represents,
let alone public
statements that
might somehow
pave the way for
recognition of the
Bahá’í community’s
fundamental rights.
CHAPTER VI: Conclusion and Summary | 77

In recent years, Iran has sought to portray itself as
ready to rejoin the world community as a respected
partner in international affairs, projecting an image of
tolerance and civility. President Khatami, for exam­
ple, spoke of humanity’s entry into a “new century of
humanity, understanding, and durable peace.”
Yet on the Bahá’í question, the Iranian government
has been utterly silent. There has been no admission of
the government’s campaign against Iran’s Bahá’í com­
munity and the need for reform that it represents, let
alone public statements that might somehow pave the
way for recognition of the Bahá’í community’s funda­
mental rights.
In this regard, continued international monitoring
remains the only form of protection for Iran’s Bahá’ís.
Any lessening of international support for the Bahá’í
community will be perceived by the Iranian authori­
ties as condoning the persecution of the Bahá’ís at the
least, and therefore as a license to continue their cam­
paign with impunity.
The Bahá’ís in Iran seek no special privileges. They
seek only their rights under the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights, including the right to life, the right
to liberty and security of person, the right to education
and work, and the right to profess and practice their
religion.
What is needed are legal and entirely public steps
that will ﬁrmly establish the complete emancipation of
the Bahá’ís of Iran. Only then can it be said that Iran
has truly complied with its oft-stated commitment to
universal human rights.
Continued
international
monitoring remains
the only form of
protection for Iran’s
Bahá’ís.
78 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

Appendix I:
BAHÁ’ÍS KILLED SINCE 1978
*  Many of those killed or executed played a leadership role in the Iranian Bahá’í community. The acronym “LSA” in this column
indicates that the person was a member of a local Spiritual Assembly, the community-elected local Bahá’í governing council. “NSA”
identiﬁes a member of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Iran, the national-level governing council. “ABM” identi­
ﬁes an “auxiliary board member,” an appointed leadership position within the Bahá’í administrative framework. “CBC” identiﬁes a
member of the Continental Board of Counsellors, an appointed leadership position which oversees the auxiliary board members.
NO. NAME
ROLE*
DATE
PLACE
METHOD
19 7 8

1. Mr. Ahmad Ismá’ílí

Ahram
Killed

2. Mr. Díyá’u’lláh Haqíqat

Aug 13
Jahrum
Killed

3. Mr. Shír-Muhammad Dastpísh

December
Buyr-Ahmad
Mobbed

4. Mrs. ‘Avad-Gul Fahandizh

Dec 14
Shíráz
Mobbed

5. Mr. Sifatu’lláh Fahandizh

Dec 14
Shíráz
Mobbed

6. Mr. Khusraw Afnání

Dec 22
Míyán-Duáb
Mobbed

7. Mr. Parvíz Afnání

Dec 22
Míyán-Duáb
Mobbed
19 7 9

8. Mr. Ibráhím Ma’navi

early 1979
Hisár
Killed

9. Mr. Hájí-Muhmmad ‘Azizi

Jan 9
Khurmúj
Beaten

10. Mr. Husayn Shakúrí

Apr 2
Ushnavíyyíh
Killed

11. Mr. ‘Alí-Akbar Khursandí
LSA
Apr 12
Tehran
Hanged

12. Mr. Bahár Vujdání

Sep 27
Mahábád
Executed

13. Mr. ‘Alí Sattárzádíh

Oct 28
Búkán
Killed

14. Mr. ‘Azamatu’lláh Fahandizh

Dec 14
Shíráz
Executed
19 8 0

15. Mr. Habíbu’lláh Panáhí

Feb 4
Urúmíyyih
Assassinated

16. Mr. Ghulám-Husayn A’zamí

May 6
Tehran
Executed

17. Mr. ‘Alí-Akbar Mu’íní

May 6
Tehran
Executed

18. Mr. Badi’u’lláh Yazdání

May 6
Tehran
Executed

19. Mr. Parviz Bayáni

May 11
Píránshahr
Executed

20. Mr. Mir-Asadu’lláh Mukhtárí

May 18
Andrún
Stoned

21. Mr. Hasan Ismá’ílzádíh

June
Sanandaj
Killed

22. Mr. Yúsuf Subhání

Jun 27
Tehran
Executed

23. Mr. Yadu’lláh Astání
LSA
Jul 14
Tabríz
Executed

24. Dr. Farámarz Samandari
LSA
Jul 14
Tabríz
Executed

25. Mr. Muhammad Akbarí

Jul 16
Rasht
Executed
APPENDIX I: Bahá’ís killed since 1978 | 79

26. Mr. Yadu’lláh Mahbubíyán

Jul 30
Tehran
Executed

27. Mr. Dhabíhu’lláh Mu’miní

Aug 15
Tehran
Executed

28. Mr. Núru’lláh Akhtar-Khávarí
ABM
Sep 8
Yazd
Executed

29. Mr. ‘Azizu’lláh Dhabíhíyán
ABM
Sep 8
Yazd
Executed

30. Mr. Firaydún Faridání
ABM
Sep 8
Yazd
Executed

31. Mr. Mahmúd Hasanzádíh

Sep 8
Yazd
Executed

32. Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Vahháb

Sep 8
Yazd
Executed

Kázimi-Manshádí

33. Mr. Jalál Mustaqím
LSA
Sep 8
Yazd
Executed

34. Mr. ‘Ali Mutahari
LSA
Sep 8
Yazd
Executed

35. Mr. Rídá Firúzí

Nov 9
Tabríz
Executed

36. Mr. Muhammad-Husayn Ma’súmí

Nov 23
Núk, Birjand
Burned

37. Mrs. Shikkar-Nisá Ma’súmí

Nov 23
Núk, Birjand
Burned

38. Mr. Bihrúz Saná’í

Dec 17
Tehran
Executed
19 8 1

39. Dr. Manúchihr Hakim
NSA
Jan 12
Tehran
Assassinated

40. Mr. Mihdi Anvari

Mar 17
Shíráz
Executed

41. Mr. Hidáyatu’lláh Dihqání

Mar 17
Shíráz
Executed

42. Mrs. Núráníyyih Yárshátir

Apr
Shíráz
Assassinated

43. Mr. Sattár Khushkhú

Apr 30
Shíráz
Executed

44. Mr. Ihsánu’lláh Mihdí-Zádih

Apr 30
Shíráz
Executed

45. Mr. Yadu’lláh Vahdat
ABM
Apr 30
Shíráz
Executed

46. Mr. Muhmmad (Suhráb) Habibí
LSA
Jun 14
Hamadán
Executed

47. Mr. Muhammad-Baqir (Suhayl)
LSA
Jun 14
Hamadán
Executed

Habíbí

48. Mr. Husayn Khándil
LSA
Jun 14
Hamadán
Executed

49. Mr. Tarázu’lláh Khuzayn
LSA
Jun 14
Hamadán
Executed

50. Mr. Husayn Mutlaq
LSA
Jun 14
Hamadán
Executed

51. Dr. Fírúz Na’ími
LSA
Jun 14
Hamadán
Executed

52. Dr. Nasir Vafá’í
LSA
Jun 14
Hamadán
Executed

53. Mr. Buzurg ‘Alaviyán
LSA
Jun 23
Tehran
Executed

54. Mr. Háshím Farnúsh
ABM LSA Jun 23
Tehran
Executed

55. Mr. Farhang Mavaddat
LSA
Jun 23
Tehran
Executed

56. Dr. Masíh Farhangí
CBC ASIA Jun 24
Tehran
Executed

57. Mr. Badí’ulláh Farid

Jun 24
Tehran
Executed

58. Mr. Yadu’lláh Pústchí

Jun 24
Tehran
Executed

59. Mr. Varqá Tibyániyán (Tibyání)

Jun 24
Tehran
Executed

60. Mr. Kamálu’d-Din Bakhtávar

Jul 26
Mashhad
Executed

61. Mr. Ni’matu’llah Kátibpúr

Jul 26
Mashhad
Executed

Shahidi

62. Mr. ‘Abdu’l-‘Alí Asadyárí
LSA
Jul 29
Tabríz
Executed

63. Mr. Husayn Asadu’lláh-Zadeh
LSA
Jul 29
Tabríz
Executed

64. Mr. Mihdí Báhiri
LSA
Jul 29
Tabríz
Executed

65. Dr. Masrúr Dakhílí
LSA
Jul 29
Tabríz
Executed

66. Dr. Parvíz Fírúzí
LSA
Jul 29
Tabríz
Executed

67. Mr. Manúchihr Khádí’í
LSA
Jul 29
Tabríz
Executed

68. Mr. Alláh-Vírdí Mítháqi

Jul 29
Tabríz
Executed

69. Mr. Habíbu’lláh Tahqíqí
LSA
Jul 29
Tabríz
Executed

70. Mr. Ismá’íl Zihtáb
LSA
Jul 29
Tabríz
Executed

71. Mr. Husayn Rastigar-Námdár

Aug 5
Tehran
Executed

72. Mr. Habíbu’llah ‘Azizí
LSA
Aug 29
Tehran
Executed

73. Mr. Bahman ‘Atiﬁ

Sep 11
Dáryún, Isf.
Executed

74. Mr. ‘Izzat Atiﬁ

Sep 11
Dáryún, Isf.
Executed

75. Mr. Ahmad Ridvání

Sep 11
Dáryún, Isf.
Executed
NO. NAME
ROLE*
DATE
PLACE
METHOD
19 8 0  (continued)
80 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

76. Mr. Atá’u’lláh Rawhání

Sep 11
Dáryún, Isf.
Executed

77. Mr. Gushtásb Thábit-Rásikh

Sep 11
Dáryún, Isf.
Executed

78. Mr. Yadu’lláh Sipihr-Arfa

Oct 23
Tehran
Executed

79. Mr. Mihdí Amin Amin
NSA
Dec 27
Tehran
Executed

80. Mr. Jalál ‘Azizi
NSA
Dec 27
Tehran
Executed

81. Dr. ‘Izzatu’lláh Furúhi
ABM NSA Dec 27
Tehran
Executed

82. Mrs. Zhínús Ni’mat Mahmúdi
ABM NSA Dec 27
Tehran
Executed

83. Dr. Mahmúd Majdhúb
NSA
Dec 27
Tehran
Executed

84. Mr. Qudratu’lláh Rawhání
NSA
Dec 27
Tehran
Executed

85. Dr. Sírús Rawshani
NSA
Dec 27
Tehran
Executed

86. Mr. Kámrán Samimi
NSA
Dec 27
Tehran
Executed
19 8 2

87. Mrs. Shiva Mahmudi
LSA
Jan 4
Tehran
Executed

Asadu’llah-Zadeh

88. Mr. Iskandar ‘Azizi
LSA
Jan 4
Tehran
Executed

89. Mrs. Shidrukh Amir-Kiyá Baqa

Jan 4
Tehran
Executed

90. Mr. Fathu’llah Firdawsi
LSA
Jan 4
Tehran
Executed

91. Mr. Khusraw Muhandisi
LSA
Jan 4
Tehran
Executed

92. Mr. Kúrush Talá’í
LSA
Jan 4
Tehran
Executed

93. Mr. Atá’u’lláh Yávari
LSA
Jan 4
Tehran
Executed

94. Mr. Ibráhím Khayrkháh

Feb 22
Tehran
Executed

95. Mr. Husayn Vahdat-i-Haq

Feb 28
Tehran
Executed

96. Mr. ‘Askar Muhammadi

Apr 2
Rahímkhán,
Assassinated




Kírmán

97. Mr. Ihsánu’lláh Khayyámi

Apr 12
Urúmíyyih
Executed

98. Mr. ‘Azizu’llah Gulshani

Apr 29
Mashhad
Executed

99. Mrs. Ishraqiyyih Faruhar
LSA
May 8
Karaj
Executed
100. Mr. Mahmud Faruhar
LSA
May 8
Karaj
Executed
101. Mr. Badí’u’lláh Haqpaykar
LSA
May 8
Karaj
Executed
102. Mr. Agahu’lláh Tizfahm

May 10
Urúmíyyih
Executed
103. Miss Jaláliyyih Mushta

May 10
Urúmíyyih
Executed

il Uskú’í
104. Mrs. Irán Rahímpúr (Khurmá’í)

May 12
Dizfúl
Executed
105. Mr. Nasru’lláh Amini
LSA
May 16
Kháníábad,Tehe.
Executed
106. Mr. Sa’du’lláh Bábázádeh
LSA
May 16
Kháníábad,Tehe.
Executed
107. Mr. Atá’u’lláh Haqqání

Jun 1
Tehran
Killed
108. Mr. Muhammad Abbásí
LSA
Jul 9
Qazvín
Executed
109. Mr. Jadidu’lláh Ashraf
LSA
Jul 9
Qazvín
Executed
110. Manúchihr Farzánih
LSA
Jul 9
Qazvín
Executed

Mu’ayyad
111. Mr. Muhammad Mansúrí
LSA
Jul 9
Qazvín
Executed
112. Mr. Manúchíhr Vafá’i

Jul 9
Tehran
Assassinated
113. Mr. ‘Abbás-Ali Sadiqipur

Jul 15
Shíráz
Executed
114. Mr. ‘Ali Na’imíyán

Aug 11
Urúmíyyih
Executed
115. Mr. Habibu’lláh Awji

Nov 16
Shíráz
Executed
116. Mr. Dhíyá’u’lláh Ahrári
LSA
Nov 21
Shíráz
Executed
117. Mr. Husayn Nayyiri-Isfahani

Nov 29
Isfahán
Died in Prison
118. Mrs. Guldánih ‘Alipúr

Dec 24
Sári
Mobbed
19 8 3
119. Mr. Hidáyatu’lláh Síyávushí
LSA
Jan 1
Shíráz
Executed
120. Mr. Yadu’lláh Mahmúdnizhad
LSA ABM Mar 12
Shíráz
Executed
121. Mr. Rahmatu’lláh Vafá’í
LSA
Mar 12
Shíráz
Executed
122. Mrs. Túbá Zá’irpúr

Mar 12
Shíráz
Executed
123. Mr. Adadu’llah (Aziz) Zaydí

Apr 1
Míyán-Duáb
Killed
NO. NAME
ROLE*
DATE
PLACE
METHOD
19 8 1  (continued)
APPENDIX I: Bahá’ís killed since 1978 | 81

124. Mr. Jalál Hakímán

May 1
Tehran
Executed
125. Mr. Suhayl Safá’í

May 1
Tehran
Executed
126. Dr. Bahrám Afnán
LSA
Jun 16
Shíráz
Executed
127. Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Husayn Azádí
LSA
Jun 16
Shíráz
Executed
128. Mr. Kúrush Haqbín
LSA
Jun 16
Shíráz
Executed
129. Mr. ‘Ináyatu’lláh Ishráqí

Jun 16
Shíráz
Executed
130. Mr. Jamshíd Siyávushí
LSA
Jun 16
Shíráz
Executed
131. Mr. Bahrám Yaldá’í

Jun 16
Shíráz
Executed
132. Miss Shahín(Shírín) Dálvand

Jun 18
Shíráz
Executed
133. Mrs. ‘Izzat Jánamí Ishráqí

Jun 18
Shíráz
Executed
134. Miss Ru’yá Ishráqí

Jun 18
Shíráz
Executed
135. Miss Muná Mahmúdnizhád

Jun 18
Shíráz
Executed
136. Miss Zarrín Muqímí-Abyáníh

Jun 18
Shíráz
Executed
137. Miss Mahshíd Nírúmand

Jun 18
Shíráz
Executed
138. Miss Símín Sábírí

Jun 18
Shíráz
Executed
139. Mrs. Táhirih Arjumandí Síyávushi

Jun 18
Shíráz
Executed
140. Miss Akhtar Thábit

Jun 18
Shíráz
Executed
141. Mrs. Nusrat Ghufrání Yaldá’í
LSA
Jun 18
Shíráz
Executed
142. Mr. Suhayl Húshmand

Jun 28
Shíráz
Executed
143. Mr. Ahmad-‘Alí Thábít-

Jun 30
Shíráz
Died in Prison

Sarvístání

144. Mr. Muhammad Ishráqí
ABM
Aug 31
Tehran
Died in Prison
145. Mr. Akbar Haqíqí

Sep 19
Khuy
Mobbed
146. Mr. Bahman Díhqání

Nov 19
Muhammadíyyíh
Mobbed
147. Mr. ‘Abdu’l-Majíd Mutahhar

Dec 15
Isfahán
Died in Prison
19 8 4
148. Mr. Rahmatu’lláh Hakímán

Jan 11
Kírmán
Died in Prison
149. Mr. Ghulám-Husayn Hasanzádih-

Mar 10
Tehran
Executed

Shákíri
150. Mr. Muhsin Radaví

Mar 13
Tehran
Died in Prison
151. Mr. Nusrat’ulláh Díyá’í

Mar 19
Báft, Kírmán
Died in Prison
152. Mr. Kámrán Lutfí

Apr 9
Tehran
Executed
153. Mr. Rahím Rahímíyán

Apr 9
Tehran
Executed
154. Mr. Yadu’lláh Sábíríyán

Apr 9
Tehran
Executed
155. Mr. Asadu’lláh Kámíl-Muqaddam

May 2
Tehran
Died in Prison
156. Mr. Maqsúd ‘Alízádih

May 5
Tabríz
Executed
157. Mr. Jalál Payraví
ABM
May 5
Tabríz
Executed
158. Mr. Jahángír Hidáyati
NSA
May 15
Tehran
Executed
159. Mr. ‘Ali-Muhammad Zamání

May 15
Tehran
Executed
160. Mr. Nusratu’lláh Vahdat

Jun 17
Mashhad
Executed
161. Mr. Ihsánu’lláh Kathírí

Jun 27
Tehran
Executed
162. Dr. Manúchíhr Rúhí

Aug 16
Bujnúrd
Executed
163. Mr. Aminu’lláh Qurbánpúr

Aug 25
near Tehran
Died in Prison
164. Mr. Rustam Varjávandí

Sep 15
Tehran
Died in Prison
165. Mr. Shápúr (Húshang) Markazi
NSA ABM Sep 23
Tehran
Executed
166. Mr. Fírúz Purdil

Oct 30
Mashhad
Executed
167. Mr. Ahmad Bashiri
NSA
Nov 1
Tehran
Executed
168. Mr. Yúnis Nawrúzi-Iránzád
LSA
Nov 1
Karaj
169. Mr. ‘Alíridá Níyákán

Nov 11
Tabríz
Died in Prison
170. Mr. Díyá’u’lláh Maí’í-Uskú’í

Nov 13
Tabríz
Died in Prison
171. Dr. Farhád Asdaqí
NSA
Nov 19
Tehran
Executed
172. Mr. Fírúz Atharí
LSA
Dec 9
Tehran (Karaj)
Executed
173. Mr. Ghulám-Husayn Farhand
LSA
Dec 9
Tehran (Karaj)
Executed
174. Mr. ‘Ináyatu’lláh Haqíqí
LSA
Dec 9
Tehran (Karaj)
Executed
NO. NAME
ROLE*
DATE
PLACE
METHOD
19 8 3  (continued)
82 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

NO. NAME
ROLE*
DATE
PLACE
METHOD
19 8 4  (continued)
175. Mr. Jamál Káshání
LSA
Dec 9
Tehran (Karaj)
Executed
176. Mr. Jamshíd Púr-Ustádkár
LSA
Dec 9
Tehran (Karaj)
Executed
177. Dr. Rúhu’lláh Ta’lím
LSA
Dec 9
Tehran
Executed




(Kirmánsháh)
19 8 5
178. Mr. Rúhu’lláh Hasúrí

Jan 21
Yazd
Executed
179. Mr. Rúhu’lláh Bahrámsháhi
LSA
Feb 25
Yazd
Executed
180. Mr. Nusratu’lláh Subháni

Mar 5
Tehran
Executed
181. Mr. ‘Abbás Idilkhání

Aug 1
Tehran
Executed
182. Mr. Rahmatu’lláh Vujdání
LSA
Aug 31
Bandar-‘Abbás
Executed
183. Mr. Núr’ud-Din Tá’ifí

Oct 12
Gurgán
Died in Prison




(Kirmánsháh)
184. Mr. ‘Azízu’lláh Ashjárí

Nov 19
Tabríz
Executed
19 8 6
185. Mr. Paymán Subháni (reported)

Apr 28
Saráván
Mobbed
186. Mr. Sirru’lláh Vahdat-Nizámí

May 4
Tehran
Executed
187. Mr. Fidrus Shabrukh

May 9
Záhidán
Executed
188. Mr. Farid Bihmardí
NSA
Jun 10
Tehran
Executed
189. Mr. Habíbu’lláh Muhtadí

Aug 27
Tehran
Killed
190. Mr. Bábak Tálibí

Sep 2
Karaj
Beaten
191. Mr. Iraj Mihdi-Nizhád

Sep 4
Bandar-‘Abbás
Mobbed
19 8 7
192. Mr. Ahmad Kávih

Jan 26
Isfahán
Killed
193. Mr. Surúsh Jabbári

Mar 3
Tehran
Killed
194. Mr. Abu’l-Qásim Sháyiq

Mar 3
Tehran
Killed
195. Mr. Ardishír Akhtarí

Sep 28
Tehran
Executed
196. Mr. Amír-Husayn Nádiri

Sep 28
Tehran
Executed
19 8 8
197. Mr. Bihnám Páshá’í
presumably Nov Tehran
Executed
198. Mr. Iradj Afshín
presumably Nov Tehran
Executed
199. Mr. Mihrdad Maqsudi

Feb 16
Urúmíyyih
Killed
19 9 2
200. Mr. Bahman Samandari

Mar 18
Tehran
Executed
201. Mr. Ruhu’lláh Ghedami

Jun 17
on Qum Highway Killed
19 9 5
202. Mr. Shirvin Falláh

Approx Dec Arak
Killed
19 9 7
203. Mr. Mansúr Dawlat

Apr 4
Kírmán
Killed
204. Mr. Shahrám Reza’i

Jul 7
Rasht
Killed
205. Mr. Mashá’lláh Enáyatí

Jul 4
Isfahán
Beaten in prison
19 9 8
206. Mr. Rúhu’lláh Rawhání

Jul 21
Isfahán
Executed
APPENDIX I: Bahá’ís killed since 1978 | 83

Since 1980, human rights organs of the United Na­
tions have been expressing concern about the tragic
situation of the Bahá’í religious minority in Iran. This
demonstration of international concern has played a
critical role in moderating the actions of the Iranian
authorities and providing a measure of security to the
Bahá’í community.
A summary history of this issue at the United Na­
tions is outlined below:
1 9 8 0
Resolution 10 (XXXIII) (10.9.1980) of the Sub-
Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and
Protection of Minorities expresses profound concern
for the Bahá’ís both individually and collectively, and
invites the Government of Iran to protect their funda­
mental human rights and freedoms.
1 9 8 1
Resolution 8 (XXXIV) (9.9.1981) of the Sub-
Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and
Protection of Minorities draws the attention of the
Commission on Human Rights to the perilous situ­
ation facing the Bahá’ís and requests the Secretary-
General to report on their plight to the next session of
the Commission.
1 9 8 2
Resolution 1982/27 (11.3.1982) of the Commission
on Human Rights notes the Secretary-General’s report
on the Bahá’ís and requests him to establish direct
contacts with the Government of Iran and to continue
his efforts to ensure the Bahá’ís full enjoyment of their
human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Grave concern for the Bahá’í minority is expressed
by members of the Human Rights Committee at its
16th session, when the Committee discusses with rep­
resentatives of the Iranian Government the preliminary
report submitted by the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Iran in accordance with its reporting obli­
gations under the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights.
Resolution 1982/25 (8.9.1982) of the Sub-Commis­
sion on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of
Minorities recalls its earlier resolutions on the plight
of the Bahá’ís and expresses its continuing concern at
human rights violations in Iran.
1 9 8 3
Resolution 1983/34 (8.3.1983) of the Commission
on Human Rights expresses its profound concern at
the religious persecution of the Bahá’ís and requests
the Secretary-General to continue his direct contacts
with the Government of Iran on the human rights
situation in that country, “including the situation of
the Bahá’ís.”
Resolution 1983/14 (5.9.1983) of the Sub-Com­
mission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protec­
tion of Minorities expresses its grave concern at the
continuing religious persecution of the Bahá’ís and
suggests that the Commission on Human Rights ap­
point a Special Rapporteur to study the human rights
situation in Iran.
1 9 8 4
Resolution 1984/54 (14.3.1984) of the Commis­
sion on Human Rights expresses its concern for the
Bahá’í minority and requests its Chairman to appoint
Appendix II
THE UNITED NATIONS’ RESPONSE
84 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

a Special Representative to establish contacts with the
Government of Iran and to make a thorough study of
human rights in Iran.
Decision 1984/138 of the Economic and Social
Council endorses the Commission’s decision to appoint
a Special Representative.
Resolution 1984/14 (29.8.1984) of the Sub-Com­
mission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protec­
tion of Minorities expresses alarm at the continuing
gross violations of human rights in Iran, including the
religious persecution of the Bahá’ís, and welcomes the
Commission’s decision to appoint a Special Represen­
tative.
1 9 8 5
Preliminary Report of the Special Representative
to the Commission on Human Rights expresses great
concern at the number and gravity of alleged violations
of human rights in Iran, including denial of the right to
freedom of thought, conscience and religion.
Resolution 1985/39 (13.3.1985) of the Commission
on Human Rights endorses the general observations of
its Special Representative, expresses its deep concern at
the number and gravity of alleged violations of human
rights to which his preliminary report bears witness,
extends his mandate, and requests him “...to present an
interim report to the General Assembly at its fortieth
session on the human rights situation in the Islamic
Republic of Iran, including the situation of minority
groups such as the Bahá’ís...”
Decision 1985/148 of the Economic and Social
Council endorses the Commission’s decision.
Resolution 1985/17 (29.8.1985) of the Sub-Com­
mission on Prevention of Discrimination and Pro­
tection of Minorities welcomes the Commission’s
decision, expresses its alarm at the continuing reports
of gross violations of human rights and fundamental
freedoms in Iran, “in particular at the evidence of per­
secution of the Bahá’í religious minority...,” endorses
the general observations of the Special Representative
in his preliminary report, and expresses the hope that
the initial contacts of the Government of Iran with
the Special Representative will develop into a positive
cooperation.
Resolution 40/141 (13.12.1985) of the General
Assembly “Expresses its deep concern over the speciﬁc
and detailed allegations of violations of human rights in
the Islamic Republic of Iran to which the Special Rep­
resentative refers in his interim report, and in particular,
those related to the right to life, such as summary and
arbitrary executions; the right to freedom from torture
or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punish­
ment; the right to liberty and security of person and to
freedom from arbitrary arrest or detention; the right to
a fair trial; the right to freedom of thought, conscience
and religion and to freedom of expression; and the right
of religious minorities to profess and practice their own
religion” (operative paragraph 2);
“Decides to continue its examination of the situa­
tion of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran,
including the situation of minority groups such as
the Bahá’ís, during its forty-ﬁrst session in order to
examine this situation anew in the light of additional
elements provided by the Commission on Human
Rights and the Economic and Social Council” (opera­
tive paragraph 8).
1 9 8 6
Resolution 1985/41 (12.3.1986) of the Commission
on Human Rights “expresses its deep concern over the
speciﬁc and detailed allegations of grave human rights
violations in the Islamic Republic of Iran to which the
Special Representative refers in his report”; endorses
his conclusion that “speciﬁc and detailed allegations
concerning grave human rights violations” in Iran can­
not be dismissed; decides to extend the mandate of the
Commission’s Special Representative and requests him
to present an interim report on the situation, “including
the situation of minority groups such as the Bahá’ís” to
the General Assembly at its forty-ﬁrst session and a
ﬁnal report to the Commission at its forty-third ses­
sion in 1987.
Decision 1986/137 of the Economic and Social
Council approves the Commission’s decision to extend
the Special Representative’s mandate and its request
to the Special Representative to submit reports to the
forty-ﬁrst session of the General Assembly and the
forty-third session of the Commission.
It is announced on 14 July 1986 that, in response
to this request, the Chairman of the Commission ap­
pointed Mr. Reynaldo Galindo Pohl to serve as the
Special Representative of the Commission.
Resolution 41/159 (4.12.1986) of the General As­
sembly “Expresses its deep concern over the speciﬁc
and detailed allegations of violations of human rights
in the Islamic Republic of Iran and in particular over
those related to the right to life, such as summary and
arbitrary executions, the right to freedom from torture
or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punish­
ment, the right to liberty and security of person and to
freedom from arbitrary arrest or detention, the right to
a fair trial, the right to freedom of thought, conscience
and religion and to freedom of expression and the right
of religious minorities to profess and practice their own
religion”;
“Requests the Commission on Human Rights to
study carefully the ﬁnal report of the Special Repre­
sentative, as well as other information pertaining to the
situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of
Iran, and to consider further steps for securing effective
“respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms
for all in that country”;
Decides to continue its examination of the situation
of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran includ­
APPENDIX II: The United Nations’ Response | 85

ing the situation of minority groups such as the Bahá’ís,
during its forty-second session....”
1 9 8 7
Resolution E/CN.4/RES/1987/55 (11.3.1987)
of the Commission on Human Rights recalling its
resolution 1986/41, extends the mandate of the Special
Representative for one year; requests him to present an
interim report on the human rights situation including
the situation of minority groups, such as the Bahá’ís;
regrets “that the Government of the Islamic Republic
of Iran has so far provided no comment or information
to the Special Representative and has not allowed him
to visit the country”; again expresses “its deep concern
over the numerous and detailed allegations of grave and
extensive human rights violations to which the Special
Representative refers in his report (E/CN.4/1987/23)
and in particular, those related to the right to life, the
right to freedom from torture or cruel, inhuman or
degrading treatment or punishment, the right to liberty
and security of person and to freedom from arbitrary
arrest or detention, the right to a fair trial, the right
to freedom of thought; conscience and religion and
to freedom of expression, and the right of religious
minorities to profess and practice their own religion”;
requests “the Special Representative to present an
interim report to the General Assembly, at its forty-
second session on human rights in the Islamic Republic
of Iran, including the situation of minority groups such
as the Bahá’ís....”
Decision 1987/150 of ECOSOC approves the
Commission’s decision to extend the Special Represen­
tative’s mandate.
Resolution E/CN.4/Sub.2/RES/1987/12 (1.9.1987)
of the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimina­
tion and Protection of Minorities refers to “various
resolutions and documents published by other interna­
tional bodies and organizations including resolutions
ratiﬁed by the European Parliament and Council of
Europe ... all of which have expressed great concern
over the violations of human rights and violation of the
most basic rights of the ethnic and religious minori­
ties..”; learns “with renewed concern that the number
of those allegedly executed by the ruling Government,
including Bahá’ís and others, now exceeds 70,000...”;
expresses “strong concern over the grave violations of
human rights and basic freedom such as...the right to
freedom of belief and religion...”; urges “determined
protest by the Commission to the Islamic Republic of
Iran concerning continuing disrespect for the Charter
of the United Nations in relation to human rights”; and
“requests the Secretary-General to inform the General
Assembly, the Commission on Human Rights and its
Special Representative of the information obtained
from the Sub-Commission on the grave violation of
human rights and the most basic freedoms in the Is­
lamic Republic of Iran.”
Resolution 42/136 (7.12.1987) of the General
Assembly takes note of the Commission’s resolution
1987/55 requesting the Special Representative “to
submit an interim report to the General Assembly
at its forty-second session on the situation of human
rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the
situation of minority groups such as the Bahá’ís...”;
again expresses “its deep concern about the numer­
ous and detailed allegations of grave human rights
violations in the Islamic Republic of Iran to which
the Special Representative had referred in his report,
namely, those related to the right to life, the right to
freedom from torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading
treatment or punishment, the right to liberty and secu­
rity of person, and to freedom from arbitrary arrest or
detention, the right to a fair trial, the right to freedom
of thought, conscience and religion and to freedom
of expression, and the right of religious minorities to
profess and practice their own religion”; expresses “its
grave concern, in particular, that although the Special
Representative indicates that the number of alleged
violations of the right to life has diminished over the
past two years, according to information made available
to him, some one hundred persons were alleged to have
been executed in the period October 1986-September
1987 because of their political and religious convic­
tions”; expresses “its deep concern at allegations that
maltreatment and torture, both physical and psycho­
logical, are common practice in Iranian prisons during
interrogation and before and after the ﬁnal verdict, and
at the existence of extremely summary and informal
proceedings, unawareness on the part of the prison­
ers of speciﬁc accusations, lack of legal counsel and
other irregularities with respect to fair trial”; endorses
“the conclusion of the Special Representative that acts
continue to occur in the Islamic Republic of Iran that
are inconsistent with the provisions of international
instruments....”; decides “to keep under consideration
the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic
of Iran, including the situation of minority groups such
as the Bahá’ís, during its forty-third session...”
1 9 8 8
Resolution E/CN.4/RES/1988/69 (10.3.1988) of
the Commission on Human Rights recalls its deci­
sion to request the Special Representative to present
an interim report to the General Assembly on human
rights situation including the situation of minority
groups, such as the Bahá’ís; expresses “again its deep
concern about the numerous detailed allegations of
grave human rights violations... in particular those
related to the right to life,... the right to freedom of
thought, conscience and religion and to freedom of
expression...”; requests “the Special Representative to
present an interim report to the General Assembly at
its forty-third session on the human rights situation,
including the situation of minority groups, such as the
86 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

Bahá’ís, and a ﬁnal report to the Commission at its
forty-ﬁfth session.”
Decision 1988/137 of ECOSOC approves the
Commission’s decision to extend the Special Represen­
tative’s mandate. This decision refers also to Commis­
sion resolution 1984/54.
Resolution 43/137 (8.12.1988) of the General
Assembly takes note of the Commission’s resolution
1988/69 requesting the Special Representative “to
submit an interim report to the General Assembly at
its forty-third session on the situation of human rights
in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situation
of minority groups such as the Bahá’ís....”; notes “the
recent contacts between the Special Representative
and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran,
which it is hoped will lead to a state of full co-operation
between the Special Representative and that Govern­
ment, including a visit to the Islamic Republic of Iran,
so that he can fulfil his mandate”; notes “that the
Bahá’ís in the Islamic Republic of Iran continue to be
subjected to various forms of harassment and discrimi­
nation, although there are indications that the intensity
of the campaign of persecution against the Bahá’ís has
diminished somewhat in recent months, and that
a number of them have been released from prison”;
expresses once more “its deep concern about the nu­
merous and detailed allegations of grave human rights
violations in the Islamic Republic of Iran to which
the Special Representative had referred in his report,
namely, those related to the right to life, the right to
freedom from torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading
treatment or punishment, the right to liberty and secu­
rity of person, the right to a fair trial and the right to
freedom of thought, conscience and religion”; expresses
“its deep concern also at the existence of extremely
summary, informal and irregular proceedings, failure
to inform defendants of speciﬁc accusations against
them, lack of legal counsel, absence of an appropriate
instance for appeal and other irregularities that con­
travene international standards on fair trial”; endorses
“the conclusion of the Special Representative that acts
continue to occur in the Islamic Republic of Iran that
are inconsistent with the provisions of international
instruments...”; decides “to keep under consideration
the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic
of Iran, including the situation of minority groups such
as the Bahá’ís, during its forty-fourth session....”
1 9 8 9
Resolution E/CN.4/RES/1989/66 (7.3.1989) of
the Commission on Human Rights recalling “...the
situation of minority groups, such as the Bahá’ís...”;
notes “that the situation of the Bahá’ís in the Islamic
Republic of Iran continues to be uncertain”; expresses
once more “its deep concern over the numerous and
detailed allegations of grave and extensive human
rights violations to which the Special Representative
has referred in his reports, namely, those related to the
right to life, the right to freedom from torture or cruel,
inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, the
right to liberty and security of person, the right to a fair
trial and to freedom of thought, conscience, religion
and expression,”; requests “the Special Representative
to present an interim report to the General Assembly
at its forty-fourth session on human rights situation in
Iran, including the situation of minority groups, such as
the Bahá’ís and a ﬁnal report to the forty-sixth session
of the Commission.”
Resolution E/CN.4/Sub.2/RES/1989/10
(31.8.1989) of the Sub-Commission on Prevention
of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities takes
note “of numerous reports by United Nations special
rapporteurs and by NGOs,...”; concerned “also at
reports of denial of rights of minorities to enjoy their
own culture, to profess and practice their own beliefs”;
is “further concerned at reports about persecution and
detention of members of the Bahá’í community in the
Islamic Republic of Iran.”
Resolution 44/163 (15.12.1989) of the General
Assembly takes note “with appreciation of the interim
report of the Special Representative of the Commis­
sion on Human Rights”; takes note “of the view of the
Special Representative that, in order to achieve full
co-operation between the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Iran and the Special Representative, there
is a need to proceed to another stage in the discharge of
his mandate”; welcomes “the invitation by the Islamic
Republic of Iran to the Special Representative for him
to visit that country”; decides “to continue its examina­
tion... during its forty-ﬁfth session.”
1 9 9 0
Resolution E/CN.4/RES/1990/79 (7.3.1990) of
the Commission on Human Rights notes “the ﬁnd­
ings of the Special Representative on the situation of
the Bahá’ís in the Islamic Republic of Iran”; expresses
“its concern that testimony gathered by the Special
Representative reiterated complaints about unlawful
executions, torture, substitute prisoners, imprisonment
beyond the period speciﬁed in the sentence, spontane­
ous decisions by low-ranking ofﬁcials and the absence
of council for defence as well as restrictions on the right
to assemble...”; requests “the Special Representative to
submit an interim report to the General Assembly at
its forty-ﬁfth session on the human rights situation in
the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situation of
minority groups, such as the Bahá’ís, and a ﬁnal report
to the Commission at its forty-seventh session.”
Decision 1990/243 of ECOSOC approves the
Commission’s decision to extend the Special Represen­
tative’s mandate.
Resolution E/CN.4/Sub.2/RES/1990/9 (30.8.1990)
of the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimina­
tion and Protection of Minorities notes “that the
APPENDIX II: The United Nations’ Response | 87

situation of the Bahá’ís in the Islamic Republic of Iran
continues to be uncertain”; expresses “its deep concern
about the grave violations of human rights namely
those related to the right to life, the right to freedom
from torture and from cruel, inhuman and degrad­
ing treatment or punishment, the right to liberty and
security of person, the right to a fair trial, and the right
to freedom of thought, conscience, religion and expres­
sion...”; decides “to consider the situation of human
rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the
situation of minority groups such as the Bahá’í, at its
forty-third session.”
Resolution 45/173 (18.12.1990) of the General
Assembly noting “the ﬁndings of the Special Represen­
tative on the situation of the Bahá’ís in the Islamic Re­
public of Iran”; calls upon “the Islamic Republic of Iran
to intensify its efforts to investigate and rectify the hu­
man rights issues raised by the Special Representative,
in particular as regards the administration of justice
and due process of law in order to comply with inter­
national instruments on human rights, including the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
to which the Islamic Republic of Iran is a party, and
to ensure that all individuals within its territory and
subject to its jurisdiction, including religious groups,
enjoy the rights recognized in these instruments”; notes
“that the co-operation of the Islamic Republic of Iran
with the Special Representative has improved and has
included replies by the Government to allegations that
have been transmitted to it, and urges the Government
to reply in detail to all allegations referred to by the
Special Representative in his reports.”
1 9 9 1
Resolution E/CN.4/RES/1991/82 (7.3.1991) of
the Commission on Human Rights noting further
“the ﬁndings of the Special Representative on the situ­
ation of the Bahá’ís in the Islamic Republic of Iran”;
welcomes “the full cooperation extended by the Gov­
ernment of the Islamic Republic of Iran to the Special
Representative, which has reached its highest level, as
well as the intention of the Government to continue
its full cooperation with the Special Representative”;
requests “the Special Representative to maintain his
contact and cooperation with the Government...and
to report on further progress with regard to the recom­
mendations contained in his report, on the basis of his
mandate pursuant to Commission on Human Rights
resolution 1984/54 of 14 March 1984”; also requests
the Special Representative “to submit a report to be
considered by the Commission which will consider the
report with the view to its discontinuing the mandate if
there is further progress achieved regarding his recom­
mendations.”
Decision 1991/261 of ECOSOC approves the
Commission’s request to the Special Representative to
maintain his contacts and cooperation with the Gov­
ernment of the Islamic Republic of Iran and to report
on further progress.
Resolution E/CN.4/Sub.2/RES/1991/9 (23.8.1991)
of the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimina­
tion and Protection of Minorities notes “that the situ­
ation of the Bahá’í community in the Islamic Republic
of Iran continues to be a matter of great concern”;
expresses “its deep concern at the escalating grave
violations of human rights in the Islamic Republic
of Iran, in particular of the right to life, the right to
freedom from torture and from cruel, inhuman and
degrading treatment or punishment, the right to liberty
and security of person, the right to a fair trial and the
right to freedom of thought, conscience, religion and
expression, and calls upon the Commission on Human
Rights at its forty-eight session, to extend the mandate
of the Special Representative and the monitoring of
the situation of human rights”; decides “to consider the
situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of
Iran, including the situation of minority groups such as
the Bahá’í community, at its forty-fourth session.”
1 9 9 2
Resolution E/CN.4/RES/1992/67 (4.3.1992) of
the Commission on Human Rights takes note “with
appreciation of the report of the Special Representative
of the Commission (E/CN.4/1992/34) and the obser­
vations contained therein”; expresses “its deep concern
at the continuing reports of violations of human rights
in the Islamic Republic of Iran”; expresses “its concern
more speciﬁcally at the main weaknesses, according to
the Special Representative, of the human rights situa­
tion in the Islamic Republic of Iran, namely, the lack of
guarantees of due process of law, discriminatory treat­
ment of certain groups of citizens for reason of their
religious beliefs, notably the Bahá’ís....”; welcomes “the
fact that the Government of the Islamic Republic of
Iran has permitted the Special Representative to visit
the country and has continued to reply to allegations
of human rights violations transmitted to it by the
Special Representative”; calls upon the Government
“to ensure that all individuals within its territory and
subject to its jurisdiction, including religious groups,
enjoy the rights recognized in the international instru­
ments”; decides “to extend the mandate of the Special
Representative requesting him to submit an interim
report to the General Assembly at its forty-seventh
session”; decides “to continue its consideration of the
situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms
in the Islamic Republic of Iran, as a matter of priority,
at its forty-ninth session.”
Decision 1992/239 of ECOSOC approves the
Commission’s decision to extend the Special Rep­
resentative’s mandate and its request to the Special
Representative to submit an interim report to the forty-
seventh session of the General Assembly and a ﬁnal
report to the forty-ninth session of the Commission.
88 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

Resolution E/CN.4/Sub.2/RES/1992/15
(27.8.1992) of the Sub-Commission on Prevention of
Discrimination and Protection of Minorities notes “in
particular that the situation of the Bahá’í community in
the Islamic Republic of Iran continues to be a matter
of concern”; condemns “the continuing grave violations
of human rights by the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Iran, especially: (d) renewed persecution of
religious minorities and summary killings of Bahá’ís.”
Resolution 47/146 (18.12.1992) of the General
Assembly expresses “its concern at continuing reports
of violations of human rights in the Islamic Republic
of Iran”; expresses “its concern more speciﬁcally at the
main criticisms according to the Special Representative
of the human rights situation in the Islamic Republic of
Iran, namely, the high number of executions, the prac­
tice of torture, the standard of the administration of
justice, the absence of guarantees of due legal process,
the treatment of the Bahá’í community and restriction
of freedoms of expression, thought, opinion and press”;
regrets “that the Government of the Islamic Republic
of Iran has not permitted the Special Representative
to visit the country and failed to reply to allegations
of human rights violations” and regrets also “that, as
the Special Representative concluded, the Islamic
Republic of Iran has not given adequate follow-up to
many of the recommendations contained in the previ­
ous reports”; decides “to continue the examination of
the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic
of Iran during its forty-eighth session under the item
‘Human rights questions’ in the light of additional ele­
ments provided by the Commission on Human Rights
and the ECOSOC.”
1 9 9 3
Resolution E/CN.4/RES/1992/62 (10.3.1993) of
the Commission on Human Rights, noting “the Spe­
cial Representative’s … view that during 1992 there was
no appreciable progress in the Islamic Republic of Iran
towards improved compliance with human rights stan­
dards in conformity with international instruments,”
“expresses its deep concern at continuing reports of
violations of human rights in the Islamic Republic of
Iran; expresses “its concern more speciﬁcally at the
main criticisms of the Special Representative of the …
discriminatory treatment of certain groups of citizens
for reason of their religious beliefs, notably the Bahá’ís,”
while conveying “its regret that the Government of the
Islamic Republic of Iran has not granted the request of
the Special Representative to visit the country for more
than a year,” “calls upon the Government … to comply
with international instruments on human rights …
to which the Islamic Republic of Iran is a party, and
to ensure that all individuals within its territory and
subject to its jurisdiction, including religious groups,
enjoy the rights recognised in these instruments,” and
“decides to extend the mandate of the Special Repre­
sentative … for a further year,” requesting “the Special
Representative to submit an interim report to the
General Assembly … on the human rights situation
in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situation
of minority groups, such as the Bahá’ís,” continuing
its consideration of Iran’s human rights situation “as a
matter of priority, at its ﬁftieth session.”
Decision 1993/273 of ECOSOC approves the
Commission’s decision to extend the mandate of the
Special Representative for one year, to request him to
submit an interim report to the General Assembly at its
forty-eighth session on the situation of human rights
in the Islamic Republic of Iran and to report to the
Commission at its ﬁftieth session and to request to the
Secretary-General to give all necessary assistance to the
Special Representative.
Resolution E/CN.4/Sub.2/RES/1993/14
(20.4.1993) of the Sub-Commission on Prevention of
Discrimination and Protection of Minorities, gravely
concerned at “the systematic repression of the Bahá’í
community and at the plight of the Iranian Kurds,”
strongly condemns “the continuing and ﬂagrant hu­
man rights violations of the Islamic Republic of Iran,
including: (d) The continued persecution of the Bahá’ís
and other religious minorities,” and decides to “consid­
er further the situation of human rights in the Islamic
Republic of Iran, including the situation of women and
minority groups such as the Bahá’ís and the Kurds, at
its forty-sixth session.”
Resolution 48/145 (20.12.1993) of the General As­
sembly expresses its concern “at the main criticisms of
the Special Representative with regard to the human
rights situation in the Islamic Republic of Iran, namely,
… discriminatory treatment of certain groups of
citizens by reason of their religious beliefs, notably the
Bahá’ís, whose existence as a viable religious commu­
nity is threatened…,” also calls upon “the Government
of the Islamic Republic of Iran to comply with inter­
national instruments on human rights, in particular the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,
to which the Islamic Republic of Iran is a party, and to
ensure that all individuals within its territory and sub­
ject to its jurisdiction, including religious groups, enjoy
the rights recognized in those instruments” and decides
to “continue the examination of the situation of human
rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the
situation of minority groups, such as the Bahá’ís…”
Resolution E/CN.4/RES/1994/73 (9.3.1994) of the
Commission on Human Rights expresses its concern
“at the main criticisms of the Special Representative
with regard to the human rights situation in the Islamic
Republic of Iran, namely, … discriminatory treatment
of certain groups of citizens for reason of their reli­
gious beliefs, notably the Bahá’ís, whose existence as
a viable religious community in the Islamic Republic
of Iran is threatened, as well as the ill-treatment of
certain Christians and restrictions on the freedoms of
APPENDIX II: The United Nations’ Response | 89

expression, thought, opinion and the press, and that, as
noted by the Special Representative, there is continued
discrimination against women,” also calls upon “the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to comply
with international instruments on human rights, in
particular the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights, to which the Islamic Republic of Iran
is a party, and to ensure that all individuals within
its territory and subject to its jurisdiction, including
religious groups, enjoy the rights recognized in these
instruments” and requests the Special Representative to
submit an interim report to the General Assembly at its
forty-ninth session on the situation of human rights in
the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situation of
minority groups, such as the Bahá’ís, and to report to
the Commission at its ﬁfty-ﬁrst session.
Decision 1994/263 of ECOSOC approves the
Commission’s decision to extend for a further year the
mandate of the Special Representative, to request him
to submit an interim report to the General Assembly at
its forty-ninth session on the situation of human rights
in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situation
of minority groups such as the Bahá’ís, and to report to
the Commission at its ﬁfty-ﬁrst session and to request
the Secretary-General to give all necessary assistance to
the Special Representative.
Resolution E/CN.4/Sub.2/RES/1994/16
(25.8.1994) of the Sub-Commission on Prevention
of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities deeply
concerned “at extensive and continuing human rights
violations by the Government of the Islamic Republic
of Iran, including … freedom of religion,” shocked
“by the systematic repression of the Bahá’í community
and at the situation of the Iranian Kurds and the Arab
minority in Iran, and at increasing intolerance towards
Christians, including recent murders of Christian
religious ministers,” condemns “the flagrant viola­
tions of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran
which, as noted by the Special Representative of the
Commission, include: (d) Religious discrimination,
notably against the Bahá’ís and Christian individuals
and groups,” and requests the Secretary-General to
“continue to keep the Sub-Commission informed of
relevant reports and United Nations measures to pre­
vent human rights violations in the Islamic Republic
of Iran, including, in particular, those concerning the
situation of the Kurds and the Arab minority and the
religious freedoms of the Bahá’í and Christian com­
munities in Iran.”
Resolution 49/202 (23.12.1994) of the General
Assembly expresses “its concern more speciﬁcally at
the main criticisms of the Special Representative in
his recent reports with regard to … the discriminatory
treatment of minorities by reason of their religious
beliefs, notably the Bahá’ís, whose existence as a viable
religious minority is threatened …,” urges “the Islamic
Republic of Iran to comply with international instru­
ments on human rights, in particular the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, to which the
Islamic Republic of Iran is a party, and to ensure that
all individuals within its territory and subject to its ju­
risdiction, including religious groups and other persons
belonging to minorities, enjoy the rights recognized
in those instruments”; and decides “to continue the
examination of the situation of human rights in the
Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situation of
minority groups, such as the Bahá’ís, during its ﬁftieth
session under the item entitled ‘Human rights ques­
tions’ in the light of additional elements provided by
the Commission on Human Rights and the Economic
and Social Council.”
1 9 9 5
Resolution E/CN.4/RES/1995/68 (8.3.1995) of
the Commission on Human Rights expresses “its deep
concern at continued violations of human rights in the
Islamic Republic of Iran, including those highlighted
by the Special Representative in his report, namely
… the discriminatory treatment of minorities by
reason of their religious beliefs, notably the Baha’ís,
whose existence as a viable religious community in
the Islamic Republic of Iran is threatened” … also
urges “the Government of the Islamic Republic of
Iran, as a State party to the International Covenants
on Human Rights, to abide by its freely undertaken
obligations under the Covenants and under other in­
ternational instruments on human rights, and to ensure
that all individuals within its territory and subject to
its jurisdiction, including religious groups, enjoy the
rights recognized in these instruments,” further urges
“the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to
intensify its efforts to investigate and rectify the hu­
man rights issues raised by the Special Representative
in his observations, in particular with regard to the
administration of justice and due process of law, and,
in fulﬁlment of its obligations under article 27 of the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,
to take steps to ensure the recognition and enjoyment
of human rights of persons belonging to minorities”
and requests “the Special Representative to submit an
interim report to the General Assembly at its ﬁftieth
session on the situation of human rights in the Islamic
Republic of Iran, including the situation of minority
groups such as the Baha’ís, and to report to the Com­
mission at its ﬁfty-second session.”
Decision 1995/279 of ECOSOC approves the
Commission’s decision to extend for a further year the
mandate of the Special Representative on the situation
of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, to
request him to submit an interim report to the General
Assembly at its ﬁftieth session on the situation of hu­
man rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including
90 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

the situation of minority groups such as the Bahá’ís,
and to report to the Commission at its ﬁfty-second ses­
sion and to request to the Secretary-General to give all
necessary assistance to the Special Representative.
Resolution E/CN.4/Sub.2/RES/1995/18
(24.8.1995) of the Sub-Commission on Prevention
of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities deeply
concerned at “extensive and continuing human rights
violations by the Government of the Islamic Republic
of Iran, including arbitrary and summary executions,
torture and inhuman or degrading treatment and
punishment, arbitrary arrests and imprisonment, un­
explained disappearances, the absence of guarantees
essential for the protection of the right to a fair trial
and disregard for freedom of expression and freedom
of religion,” noting “that relevant international orga­
nizations and bodies emphasize the role of the Islamic
Republic of Iran in intimidating and harassing the reli­
gious minorities in the Islamic Republic of Iran during
the past year, in particular in the assassination of three
Christian leaders,” condemns “the ﬂagrant violations
of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran which,
as noted by the Special Representative of the Com­
mission, include: (f) Religious discrimination, notably
against Bahá’ís and Christian individuals and groups,”
requests “the Secretary-General to continue to keep
the Sub-Commission informed of relevant reports
and United Nations measures to prevent human rights
violations in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including, in
particular, those concerning the situation of the Kurds
and the Arab minority and the religious freedoms and
the emancipation of the Bahá’í and Christian com­
munities in Iran.”
Resolution 50/188 (22.12.95) of the General As­
sembly expresses “its concern at violations of human
rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, in particular …
the discriminatory treatment of minorities by reason
of their religious beliefs, notably the Bahá’ís, whose
existence as a viable religious community in the Islamic
Republic of Iran is threatened …,” urges “the Govern­
ment of the Islamic Republic of Iran, as a State party
to the International Covenants on Human Rights, to
abide by its obligations freely undertaken under the
Covenants and under other international instruments
on human rights and to ensure that all individuals
within its territory and subject to its jurisdiction, in­
cluding religious groups, enjoy the rights recognized in
those instruments,” and decides “to continue the exam­
ination of the situation of human rights in the Islamic
Republic of Iran, including the situation of minority
groups such as the Bahá’ís, during its ﬁfty-ﬁrst session
under the item entitled “Human rights questions,” on
the basis of the report of the Special Representative
and in the light of additional elements provided by the
Commission on Human Rights and the Economic and
Social Council.”
1 9 9 6
Resolution E/CN.4/RES/1996/84 (24.4.1996)
of the Commission on Human Rights expresses “its
concern at the continuation of violations of human
rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, in particular
… the discriminatory treatment of minorities by
reason of their religious beliefs, notably the Bahá’ís,
whose existence as a viable religious community in the
Islamic Republic of Iran is threatened…,” calls upon
“the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to
implement fully the conclusions and recommendations
of the Special Rapporteur on religious intolerance
relating to the Bahá’ís and to other minority religious
groups, including Christians,” urges “the Government
of the Islamic Republic of Iran, as a State party to the
International Covenants on Human Rights, to abide
by its obligations under the Covenants and under other
international instruments on human rights to which
it is party, and to ensure that all individuals within
its territory and subject to its jurisdiction, including
religious groups, enjoy the rights recognized in these
instruments” and requests “the Special Representative
to submit an interim report to the General Assembly
at its ﬁfty-ﬁrst session on the situation of human rights
in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situation
of minority groups such as the Bahá’ís, and to report to
the Commission at its ﬁfty-third session.”
Decision 1996/287 of ECOSOC endorses the
Commission’s decision to extend for a further year the
mandate of the Special Representative, and approves
the Commission’s request to the Special Representative
to submit an interim report to the General Assembly
at its ﬁfty-ﬁrst session on the situation of human rights
in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situation
of minority groups such as the Bahá’ís, and to report to
the Commission at its ﬁfty-third session.
Resolution E/CN.4/Sub.2/RES/1996/7 (20.8.1996)
of the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimina­
tion and Protection of Minorities gravely concerned
“at reports of: (a) Extensive and continuing human
rights violations by the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Iran, including arbitrary and summary ex­
ecutions, torture and inhuman or degrading treatment
and punishment, arbitrary arrests and imprisonment,
unexplained disappearances, the absence of guarantees
essential for the protection of the right to a fair trial
and disregard for freedom of expression and freedom
of religion,” requests “the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Iran to investigate fully in order to end
the alleged violations of human rights in the Islamic
Republic of Iran which include: (d) Religious discrimi­
nation, notably against Bahá’ís and Christians,” urges
“the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to
implement fully the conclusions and the recommenda­
tions of the Special Rapporteur on religious intolerance
relating to the Bahá’ís and to other minority religious
APPENDIX II: The United Nations’ Response | 91

groups, including Christians, until they are completely
emancipated” and requests “the Secretary-General to
continue to keep the Sub-Commission informed of
relevant reports and United Nations measures to pre­
vent human rights violations in the Islamic Republic of
Iran, including violations of the religious freedoms of
the Bahá’í and the Christian communities in Iran.”
Resolution 51/107 (12.12.96) of the General As­
sembly expresses “its concern at the grave breaches of
human rights of the Bahá’ís in the Islamic Republic
of Iran and situations of discrimination against the
members of this religious community, as well as at
the discriminatory treatment of minorities by reason
of their religious beliefs, including lack of adequate
protection for the Christian minorities, some members
of which have been the target of intimidation and
assassination,” urges “the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Iran, as a State party to the International
Covenants on Human Rights, to abide by its freely
undertaken obligations under the Covenants and under
other international instruments on human rights and to
ensure that all individuals within its territory and sub­
ject to its jurisdiction, including members of religious
groups and persons belonging to minorities, enjoy all
the rights enshrined in those instruments,” calls upon
“the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to
implement fully the conclusions and recommendations
of the Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Hu­
man Rights on the elimination of all forms of religious
intolerance and of discrimination based on religion or
belief relating to the Bahá’ís and to other minority reli­
gious groups, including Christians,” expresses its grave
concern at indications, according to the information
received by the Special Representative of the Com­
mission on Human Rights on the situation of human
rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, of a signiﬁcant
toughening of criminal legislation and its application
in the Islamic Republic of Iran and in particular at the
incidence of capital punishment imposed for apostasy
and non-violent crimes, in violation of the relevant
provisions of the International Covenant on Civil
and Political Rights and United Nations safeguards,”
and decides “on the basis of the report of the Special
Representative and in the light of additional elements
provided by the Commission on Human Rights and
the Economic and Social Council, to continue the
examination of the situation of human rights in the
Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situation of
minority groups such as the Bahá’ís, during its ﬁfty-
second session under the item entitled ‘Human rights
questions.’ ”
1 9 9 7
Resolution E/CN.4/RES/1997/54 (15.4.1997)
of the Commission on Human Rights expresses “its
concern: (b) At the grave breaches of the human rights
of the Bahá’ís in the Islamic Republic of Iran and situ­
ations of discrimination against the members of this
religious community, as well as at the discriminatory
treatment of minorities by reason of their religious
beliefs, including certain Christian minorities, some
members of which have been the targets of intimida­
tion and assassination,” calls upon “the Government
of the Islamic Republic of Iran: (b) To abide by its
freely undertaken obligations under the International
Covenants on Human Rights and under other inter­
national instruments on human rights, and to ensure
that all individuals within its territory and subject
to its jurisdiction, including members of religious
groups and persons belonging to minorities, enjoy
all the rights enshrined in those instruments; (c) To
implement fully the recommendations of the Special
Representative and the relevant recommendations of
the Special Rapporteurs on religious intolerance and
on freedom of opinion and expression, in particular the
recommendations relating to the Bahá’ís, Christians,
Sunni and other minority religious groups; (g) To
ensure that capital punishment will not be imposed for
apostasy or non-violent crimes, or in disregard of the
provisions of the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights and the United Nations safeguards”
and decides: “… (c) To continue its examination of the
situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of
Iran, including the situation of minority groups such as
the Bahá’ís, at its ﬁfty-fourth session under the agenda
item entitled ‘Question of the violation of human
rights and fundamental freedoms in any part of the
world, with particular reference to colonial and other
dependent countries and territories.’ ”
Decision 1997/262 of ECOSOC endorses the
Commission’s decision to extend for a further year the
mandate of the Special Representative on the situation
of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, ap­
proved the Commission’s request to the Special Rep­
resentative to submit an interim report to the General
Assembly at its ﬁfty-second session on the situation of
human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran and to re­
port to the Commission at its ﬁfty-fourth session, and
to keep a gender perspective in mind when seeking and
analysing information, and to request the Secretary-
General to continue to give all necessary assistance to
the Special Representative to enable him to discharge
his mandate fully.
Resolution 52/142 of the General Assembly ex­
presses “its concern: (b) At the grave breaches of
the human rights of the Bahá’ís, the discrimination
against members of other religious minorities, includ­
ing Christians, and the death sentences pronounced
against Dhabihullah Mahrami, Musa Talibi and
Ramadan-Ali Dhulfaqari, on the charge of apostasy,
and against Bihnam Mithaqi and Kayvan Khalajabadi
because of their beliefs,” calls upon the Government
of the Islamic Republic of Iran: “… (b) To abide by its
freely undertaken obligations under the International
92 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

Covenants on Human Rights and under other inter­
national instruments on human rights and to ensure
that all individuals within its territory and subject to
its jurisdiction, including members of religious groups
and persons belonging to minorities, enjoy all the rights
enshrined in those instruments; (c) To implement fully
the conclusions and recommendations of the Special
Rapporteur of the Commission on Human Rights on
the elimination of all forms of religious intolerance and
of discrimination based on religion or belief relating
to the Bahá’ís and to other minority religious groups,
including Christians, until they are completely eman­
cipated; E/CN.4/1996/95/Add.2. (g) To ensure that
capital punishment will not be imposed for apostasy
or non-violent crimes or in disregard of the provisions
of the International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights and United Nations safeguards” and decides
“to continue the examination of the situation of hu­
man rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including
the situation of minority groups such as the Bahá’ís, at
its ﬁfty-third session under the item entitled ‘Human
rights questions,’ in the light of additional elements
provided by the Commission on Human Rights.”
1 9 9 8
Resolution E/CN.4/RES/1998/80 (22.4.1998) of
the Commission on Human Rights expresses “its con­
cern: (c) At continuing grave violations of the human
rights of the Bahá’ís, as well as at the discrimination
against members of other religious minorities, includ­
ing Christians, despite constitutional guarantees, at
the increased pressure on religious communities and
persons suspected of proselytizing, and at the death
sentences pronounced against Mr. Dhabihullah Mah­
rami and Mr. Musa Talibi on the charge of apostasy,
and against Mr. Bihnam Mithaqi and Mr. Kayvan
Khalajabadi because of their beliefs,” calls upon “the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran: (b) To
abide by its freely undertaken obligations under the
International Covenants on Human Rights and under
other international instruments on human rights, and
to ensure that all individuals within its territory and
subject to its jurisdiction, including members of reli­
gious groups and persons belonging to minorities, en­
joy all the rights enshrined in those instruments; … (e)
To implement fully the conclusions and recommenda­
tions of the Special Rapporteur on religious intolerance
relating to the Bahá’ís, Christians and other minority
religious groups, until they are completely emancipated
… (j) To ensure that capital punishment will not be
imposed for non-violent crimes, for apostasy, or other­
wise in disregard of the provisions of the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the United
Nations safeguards” and decides: “… (c) To continue
its examination of the situation of human rights in the
Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situation of mi­
nority groups such as the Bahá’ís and the Christians, at
its ﬁfty-ﬁfth session under the same agenda item.”
Decision 1998/273 of ECOSOC endorses the
Commission’s decision to extend the mandate of the
Special Representative for a further year, to request the
Special Representative to submit an interim report to
the General Assembly at its ﬁfty-third session and to
report to the Commission at its ﬁfty-ﬁfth session, and
to keep a gender perspective in mind when seeking and
analysing information, and to request the Secretary-
General to continue to give all necessary assistance to
the Special Representative to enable him to discharge
his mandate fully.
Resolution 53/158 (9.12.1998) of the General As­
sembly expresses “its concern at the discrimination
against religious minorities and in particular remains
gravely concerned at the unabated pattern of persecu­
tion against the Bahá’ís, in particular the execution
and sentencing to death and arrests of members of the
Bahá’í community, and calls upon the Government of
the Islamic Republic of Iran to implement the recom­
mendations of the Special Rapporteur of the Com­
mission on Human Rights on religious intolerance
relating to the Bahá’ís and to other religious minorities,
until they are completely emancipated”; calls upon “the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to ensure
that capital punishment will not be imposed for other
than the most serious crimes, for apostasy, or otherwise
in disregard of the provisions of the International Cov­
enant on Civil and Political Rights and United Nations
safeguards, and to provide the Special Representative
with relevant statistics on this matter”; and decides “to
continue the examination of the situation of human
rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the
situation of minority groups such as the Bahá’ís, at its
ﬁfty-fourth session under the item entitled ‘Human
rights questions,’ in the light of additional elements
provided by the Commission on Human Rights.”
1 9 9 9
Resolution E/CN.4/RES/1999/13 (23.4.1999) of
the Commission on Human Rights notes with inter­
est: “… (b) The reported elimination of discrimination
against Bahá’í youth in enrollment in the pre-university
year at the high-school level, while remaining con­
cerned that their entry to universities continues to be
refused, expresses its concern: (c) At the continued
discrimination against religious minorities, in par­
ticular the unabated and, in some instances, worsened
pattern of persecution against the Bahá’ís, including
death sentences, executions, arrests and the closure of
the Bahá’í Institute for Higher Education” and calls
upon the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran:
“… (b) To ensure that capital punishment will not be
imposed for other than the most serious crimes, not
for apostasy or otherwise in disregard of the provisions
of the International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights and United Nations safeguards, and to provide
APPENDIX II: The United Nations’ Response | 93

the Special Representative with relevant statistics on
this matter; (c) To implement fully the conclusions
and recommendations of the Special Rapporteur on
religious intolerance relating to the Bahá’ís and other
minority religious groups until they are completely
emancipated”; and decides: “… (c) To continue its
examination of the situation of human rights in the
Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situation of the
Bahá’ís and other minority groups, at its ﬁfty-sixth ses­
sion under the same agenda item.”
Resolution A/RES754/177 (17.12.1999) of the
General Assembly expresses its concern… “at the dis­
crimination against religious minorities, in particular
Bahá’ís, and remains gravely concerned at the unabated
pattern of persecution against the Bahá’ís, including
death sentences, arrests and the closure of the Bahá’í
Institute for Higher Education, and calls upon the
Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran to imple­
ment fully the conclusions and recommendations of
the Special Rapporteur on religious intolerance relating
to the Bahá’ís and other religious minorities until they
are completely emancipated”; Decides… “to continue
the examination of the situation of human rights in
the Islamic Republic of Iran, including the situation
of minority groups, such as the Bahá’ís, at its ﬁfty-ﬁfth
session under the item entitled “Human rights ques­
tions”, in the light of additional elements provided by
the Commission on Human Rights”.
2 0 0 0
Resolution E/CN.4/2000/L.16 (10.4.2000) the
Commission on Human Rights expresses its concern:
…”At the discrimination against religious minori­
ties, in particular the unabated pattern of persecution
against the Bahá’ís, including death sentences and ar­
rests”; calls upon…”To ensure that capital punishment
will not be imposed other than for the most serious
crimes, not for apostasy or otherwise in disregard of
the provisions of the International Covenant on Civil
and Political Rights and United Nations safeguards,
and to provide the Special Representative with rel­
evant statistics on this matter”; “To implement fully
the conclusions and recommendations of the Special
Rapporteur on religious intolerance relating to the
Bahá’ís and other minority religious groups until they
are completely emancipated; Decides:…” To continue
its examination of the situation of human rights in the
Islamic Republic of Iran, paying particular attention to
further developments, including the situation of the
Bahá’ís and other minority groups, at its ﬁfty-seventh
session under the same agenda item”.
Resolution A/RES/55/114 (4.12.00) The General
Assembly expresses its concern: “At the discrimina­
tion against persons belonging to religious minorities,
in particular the unabated pattern of persecution of
the Bahá’ís, including the continuing detention and
the sentencing to death of some of them”. Calls upon
the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran…”to
implement fully the conclusions and recommendations
of the Special Representative with regard to religious
intolerance relating to the Bahá’ís and other minority
religious groups, Ibid,. para 110. until they are com­
pletely emancipated”; Decides “to continue the exami­
nation of the situation of human rights in the Islamic
Republic of Iran, including the situation of minority
groups such as the Bahá’ís, at its ﬁfty-sixth session,
under the item ‘Human rights questions’, in the light
of additional elements provided by the Commission on
Human Rights”.
2 0 0 1
Resolution E/CN.4/RES/2001/17 (20.4.2001) the
Commission on Human Rights notes:
“ recent positive steps regarding the situation of the
Bahá’ís, including the report that they will be allowed
to re-establish their cemetery in Tehran, but expresses
its concern at the still-existing discrimination against
persons belonging to minorities, in particular against
Bahá’ís, and calls upon the Government of the Islamic
Republic of Iran to eliminate all forms of discrimina­
tion based on religious grounds or against persons
belonging to minorities and to address this matter
in an open manner with the full participation of the
minorities themselves, as well as to implement fully the
conclusions and recommendations of the Special Rap­
porteur on religious intolerance relating to the Bahá’ís
and other minority groups until they are completely
emancipated”. Decides… “to continue its examina­
tion of the situation of human rights in the Islamic
Republic of Iran, paying particular attention to further
developments, including the situation of the Bahá’ís
and other minority groups, at its ﬁfty-eighth session
under the same agenda item”.
Resolution A/RES/56/171(19.12.2001) The Gen­
eral Assembly expresses its concern: … “At the con­
tinuing discrimination against persons belonging to
minorities, in particular against Bahá’ís, Christians,
Jews and Sunnis”. It calls upon the Government of the
Islamic Republic of Iran: …”To eliminate all forms of
discrimination based on religious grounds or against
persons belonging to minorities and to address this
matter in an open manner, with the full participation
of the minorities themselves, as well as to implement
fully the conclusions and recommendations of the
Special Rapporteur of the Commission on Human
Rights on the question of religious intolerances relat­
ing to the Bahá’ís and other minority groups until they
are completely emancipated.”. Decides : ..”To continue
the examination of the situation of human rights in the
Islamic Republic of Iran, paying particular attention to
further developments, including the situation of the
Bahá’ís and other minority groups, at its ﬁfty-seventh
94 | THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION

session, under the agenda item entitled “Human rights
questions”, in the light of additional elements provided
by the Commission on Human Rights”.
2 0 0 3
Resolution A/RES/58/195 (22.12.03). The Gen­
eral Assembly expresses its serious concern at:..” The
Continuing discrimination against persons belonging
to minorities, including the Bahá’ís, Christians, Jews
and Sunnis, including cases of arbitrary arrest and
detention, the denial of free worship or of publicly
carrying out communal affairs and the disregard of
property rights”. It calls upon the government of the
Islamic Republic of Iran:…” To eliminate all forms of
discrimination based on religious grounds or against
persons belonging to minorities, including the Bahá’ís,
Christians, Jews and Sunnis, and to address this matter
in an open manner, with the full participation of the
minorities themselves”. It decides:… “to continue its
examination of the situation of human rights in the
Islamic Republic of Iran, paying particular attention
to further developments, including the situation of the
Bahá’ís and other minority groups, at its ﬁfty-ninth
session, under the item entitled “Human rights ques­
tions”, in the light of additional elements provided by
the Commission on Human Rights”.
2 0 0 4
Resolution A/RES/59/205 (02.11.04). The General
Assembly expresses its serious concern at:..” The con­
tinuing discrimination against persons belonging to mi­
norities, including Christians, Jews and Sunnis, and the
increased discrimination against the Bahá’ís, including
cases of arbitrary arrest and detention, the denial of free
worship or of publicly carrying out communal affaires,
the disregard of property rights, the destruction of sites
of religious importance, the suspension of social, educa­
tional and community-related activities and the denial
of access to higher education, employment, pensions
and other beneﬁts”. It calls upon the Government of
the Islamic Republic of Iran: …” To eliminate all forms
of discrimination based on religious grounds or against
persons belonging to minorities, including the Bahá’ís,
Christians, Jews and Sunnis, and to address this matter
in an open manner, with the full participation of the
minorities themselves, and to ensure respect for the
freedom of religion or belief of all persons”.
APPENDIX II: The United Nations’ Response | 95

THE BAHÁ’Í QUESTION
Cultural Cleansing in Iran
Copyright 2005 Bahá’í International Community
Web site : http://question.bahai.org