THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2011-02-13

To an individual Bahá'í

277 48 13 February 2011 To an individual Bahá’í Dear Bahá’í Friend, 48.1 . . . The House of Justice is familiar with your views about

the “double crusade” enjoined by Shoghi Effendi in The Advent of Divine Justice, as enumerated in your most recent letter as well as your letters of 6 November and 3 December 2009. You should rest assured that at every stage in the unfoldment of the Divine Plan, the Center of Authority in the Faith establishes a framework for action to guide the believers in a united effort to apply Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings for the progress of the Bahá’í community and the building of a world civilization. In the cur - rent series of Plans, the House of Justice has identified for the Bahá’í community the essential aim of advancing the process of entry by troops and has outlined the activities conducive to that end. The letter dated 28 December 2010 to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors sets out the features of the next Five Year Plan. It is hoped that the perspective provided in this letter will make it evident that the entire series of Plans since 1996 have indeed had at their heart the achieve-ment of the double crusade, “first to regenerate the inward life of their own community, and next to assail the long-standing evils that have entrenched themselves in the life of their nation.”

The energetic prosecution of the Plan is, therefore, the surest and most expeditious way to achieve the objectives to which you aspire.

48.2 You are free to share with your National Spiritual Assembly

any specific suggestions you may feel are conducive to resolving the challenges facing the American Bahá’í community. However, you should not feel that, because particular recommendations are not adopted, the problems you perceive are being ignored.

The activities of the current Plans provide new avenues for addressing the various facets of the double crusade. The culture 278 FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONof learning that has emerged in recent years allows the Bahá’í community to address such challenges in a systematic and ongoing manner in the context of the activities in a cluster. The process must inevitably unfold in an organic manner. Initiatives within the Bahá’í community will emerge at the grass roots in clusters where there is intensive activity; approaches that prove to be effective can gradually be shared with other areas. 48.3 As new guidance is provided to the Bahá’ís of the world it

is important that the friends welcome the challenge of learning to put it into effect without falling prey to an unfortunate duality that pits one position against another. In this particular instance, a perceived dichotomy between resolving racial prejudice and undertaking the activities of the Plan can be transcended through a process of study, consultation, action, and reflection as described by the House of Justice.

48.4 Rest assured of the prayers of the House of Justice in the

Holy Shrines that Bahá’u’lláh may continue to shower you with His confirmations and assist you in His service. With loving Bahá’í greetings, Department of the Secretariat

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]