THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1996-09-15

To the b ahá’ís of the w orld

dear b ahá’í f riends,

in june 1993 we raised the call for pioneers, both long-term and short-

term, and traveling teachers for the Three year plan. we are now happy

to announce that some 10,600 friends arose to serve the faith outside the

bounds  of their homelands during the three years, evoking our admiration

and pride. of particular significance was the number of youth who dedi-

cated periods of service to the f aith.

The bahá’í world is currently launched upon the four year plan, deter-

mined to advance the process of entry by troops. pioneers and traveling

teachers can make significant contributions to the furthering of this aim.

imbued with the spirit of humility, love and detachment, they can rein-

force the work of the friends in every land in their efforts to increase the

strength and influence of the bahá’í community by the end of this century.

National Spiritual Assemblies will soon be asked to adopt numerical goals

for pioneers and traveling teachers to go forth from their countries to serve

in the international field. we call upon the believers everywhere to ensure,

through their enthusiastic response, that these goals are not only met but

surpassed. information about pioneer needs is contained in a document pre-

pared by the international Teaching center and is available to you through 234.7

235.1

235.2

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

55the agencies of your National Assemblies and through the Auxiliary board

members and their assistants.

The prospect before us as the plan unfolds is one to thrill every bahá’í

heart; the need of our fellow human beings for the message of bahá’u’lláh

becomes more urgent day by day; ardent, willing and capable servants of

the cause are required in many lands and for many functions. That his

eager followers in every community will arise with devotion, audacity and determination to advance his cause is the longing of our hearts and the

object of our fervent prayers at the Sacred Threshold.

236

Process of Entry by Troops

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]