EVIDENCE
rROIi
dCRIPTURE AND HIS TOR Y
or THE
SECOND COMING OF CHRIST,
ABOUT
THE 'YEAR 1848; .
EXHIBITED
IN A COURSE OF LECTURES.
BY WILLIAM MILLER •
.,.
BOSTON:
PUBLISHED BY JOSHUA V. IDMES,
14 DevoDshire Street.
1842.
f/, ::,
Digitized by Google'

INTRODUCTION.
l1f .,-tinr theM Lec&urel to tile public, the writer is -only
eomplyiDg with tile IOIicitatioas of _
of btl fiieDdI, who have
requested that his views OD the Prophecies or Daniel and Jolm
might be made public. The reader is therefONlrequested . to give
the IUbject a eaftlfilI and candid pemaaI, and compare every part
with the ataadard of Divine Tru.tb; for if the ezpIanaIioa. tile writer
has given to the scrip&urel under _idensioa Ihoold prove comet, .'
the ..ader will readily pereeive that it 00_ 118 all, and becomes
doubly important to 118, because we live OIl tile eve or ODe of the
most important events ever revealed to IIlBD by tha wisdom of God
-
tha judgment of the great day
In order that the ftladar may have an undentandiDg of my'tIIIIII-
Dar of Itwlying the Propbeciea, by which I have come to the fol- "
lowing _oIt, I have thought proper to give aome of the roles of
interpreta.tjou which I have adopted to underatand prophecy.
,
Prophetical scriptuftl ia very much of it commllllicated to lIS by
fi«ures and higtIIy and richly adorned metaphon; by which I mean
that figures Such as~, 1JinU, air or 1lIirItl, tDtJIer,jirc, ctJftdlalit:Tt:.,
Iarp, tIIOUIIIaiIu, ullmtU, &C., are I1I8d to re~t things proph-
esied of-such as kiDgdoms, warrion, priaciplu, people, judg.
ments, ehurehes, word of God, large and sma1lergovemments. Iti.
metaphorical also, showing some pecoliar quality of tha thing proph.
esied of, by tha most prominent featuftl or quality of the ligure lISed,
as ~-if a lima, power and rule; if a leupard, celerity; if a
!Jeo.r, voracious; an t»J:, aubmi88ive; a_n, proud and independent.
Fire denotes justice and judgment in its figure; in tha metaphor,
denotes the purifying or COIIIuming up the dross or wickedness; as .
.fin has a cleansing quality, 80 will tha justice or judgmeDts of G~
.'
., For when thy judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of'the
world will learn righ~!' Therefon a1most all the fi&uriII
Di9lti;ed by Google

UlTBODUCTlOl'f.
III8d U; pIO(lheey have their litenJ aDd metaphorical m~; ..
... denote, litarally, a kiDgdom, 10 metaphorically good or bad,
.. the c_ ,lDay be, to be undeJatood by the subject in COunectiOD.
To understaod the literal meaning of figures used in propbecy, 1
have pursued .the following method: -I lind the word " bea8t "
used in a figurative _; 1 take my cODCOrdaaee, trace the word,
aad in Daniel vii. 17, it is ezplained to mean " kings or kiDgdOIll8."
Again, 1 come aeross the words" Itird or fOlDl," aDd in Isa. xlvi.
11, it is used, meaaing a conqueror or warrior,-Cyrus. Abo, in
Ezekiel uxix. 4-9, denotes armies or conquerors. Again, the
words" tAr or wind," .. used in Rev. ix.!, aad 16, 17, to under-
at8Dd wbiola I bIrD to Epla. ii. !, aDd 6-14, aad there learn that it
ia ued. .. a 'rare to deDoIe the tMories of worJdly_ 01 vaIa
pIIiIoIopIty. Again,"tD#III!r or nuer." 818 UMCI .. fipreI ia
lletr. xvii. 16, it ia ezpIaiI*I to __ "people or DatiOlll/'
" Riuen" of __
the aatiOR or people hiag OD the river
....uo.d, .. ia BeY. zvi.1!. ." Fire" ia often UMCI ia a 19urative
_DIll, upIaiaed in N_ ui. 17-18, DeaL DZii.!I, PIaL Iuviii.
!1, Reb. zii. 19, to _jaltiee aDd~L
As propllecy is a Iugaap ~
dil'enmt hD other parII
of Scripture, owing to its IIaving II-. revealed ia viIi8a, aDd that
highly figurative, yet God in his wiadOlll bu 10 iDtenroveu the
.. veral prophecies, that the evada foretold are DOt aU told by 0IIII
prophet, and a1tIat>ugh they liftd aod proplaesied ia different ages of
the world. yet they teU UI the _
tbiags; 10 you take a_yone,
and a link will be wantiDg. TbeIe ia a gueraI CODDeCtiOU through
the whole; \ike a weIl-regula1ed community they all move in ani-
IOn, speaking the same things, 0baerviDg' the same 1'111~ 10 that a
Bible reader may a1mGst with propriety mppol8, let hi1D read in
what prophecy he may, that he ia reading the lame prophet, the
same author. This will appear evident.o anyone who will com-
pare scripture with aeriptore. For.-..,le, _
Dan. n. 1, MatL
Div. !1, Iaa. xlvii. 8, Zeph. iL 16, Rev. sviii.7. There never was
a book writtea that bu a better coonection and lIarmouy thaD the
Bible, aad yet it hal the appearance of a great atore-bouae fb11 of
all the precioua commodities heart could desire, thrown in promis-
cuouIy I therefore, the biblical student mUlt select and bring to-
gether every part of the subject he wishes to inveatigate, from every
put of the Bible I then let every word bave ita own Scripture mean-
ing, every aenteDee its proper bearing, and have no CODtradiction,
aad yaur theory wiD aDd IDI18t of neeeaaity be correcL TIUlb is
Digitized by Google

IlfTBOD1KlTIOlf.
I
one UDdeviating path, that groWl brighter ud brighter the'more ¥
is trodden; it needs no plausible IIl'gIIDItIIlts nor pompoua dreta to
make it more bright, for the more naked end simple the fact, the
stronger the truth appesra.
Let it be noticed that God haa revealed to his prophets the same
events in divers figures and at dift'erent times, aa he haa to Daniel
in the second, seventh, end eighth chapters co_ing the four
kingdoms; or to Peter, (see Acts x. 16;) also Isaiah and John.
Then, to get the whole truth, all those visions or prophecies mml
be concentrated end brought together, that have reference to the
subject which we wish to investigate; end when combined, let every
word and sentence have,its proper bearing end force in the grand
whole, and the theory or system, as 1 have before IboWD, m1llt be
correct. I have likewise no~iced that in those events, visions, and
prophecies which bave bad their fulfilment, every word end every
particular haa bad an enel and literal accomplishment, and that
no ~o events bave ever happened, that I can learn, which will az-
aclly apply or fulfil tbe same prophecy. Take, for instance, the
prophecies concerning the birth, life, and crucifixion of our Savior,
and in his bistory we find a literal fWfilment; yet in the birtb, life,
or death of any other individual it wonld be in vain to find a paral-
lel. Again, take the prophecies which have been actD«ed, by'
I'rotestants at le88t, to apply to Cpos, Alazander, Julius Cesar,
destruction of Jerusalem, end the church of Rome, ud I hove never
been able to trace even a resemblance to the prophecies in q'l'"tion
in eny historical events azcept the true ones. If this is true, may
we not suppose that the UDfulfiUed prophecies in their accomplish-
ments will be equally as evident and literal!
There are two important points to which all prophecy seems to
centre, like a clmter of grape. upon its stem- the first and second
coming of Christ; the first coming to proclaim the gospel, set up
his kingdom, suffer' for sinners, end bring in im everlasting right-
eousness. His second coming, to which the ardent faith BIId pious
hope of the tried and tempted child of God ceBtres, is for complete
redemption from sin, for the justification and glorification promised
to all those wbo look for his appearing, the destruction of the wicked
and mystical Babylon, the abomination of the whole earth.
ms first coming was as a man, hishumen nature being only visible,
his Godhead known only in his miracles, His second coming will
be 88 God, his divine Godhead and power being most visible. He
comes first, like the "first man of the eartlr, earthy ;" bis second
1-
Digitized by Google

•
IJITJLODUOTJO ..
~
is " the Lord fiom lleaveII." Hi, first eommg was 6tera11,
leeordiDg to lhe propbeeiea. And so we may safely infer will be
iIiI secood appearBDee, aecordiDg 10 the Scriptures. At his advent,
lIis forerwmer was spoken of -" one crying in tIae wilderness;" the
llllUlDer of biI birth -
" a child born of a vitgin ;" the place where
-" BetlaleJaem of Judea;" the tilna of biI death -" wben seventy
weeb sbould be fulfilled I" for what be should suffer -
" to make
ILD ad of aias, 10 make reeGnciliation for iniquity, and to bring in
everlasting rigbteousne81, to seal up the vision and prophecy, and
to anoiat the Most Holy."
The 11141' that appeared, the.mpu he
received, the fIIirtu:Iu be performed, the I4Unting8 of his foes -
all
wem literally fu1filled. Then, why nol suppose that all the prop.
cies concerning billIeCOnd coming will be as lilcrailyacl'!Omplished
as the former 1 Can any mao sbow a single reason why it will
not 1 If this be true, we can obtain much light by reading the
Scriptures. We are there informed of the manner of his second
coming -" suddenly, in the clouds, in like manoer u he ascend-
ed ;" the majesty of his coming -
" on a great white throlle, with
power and great glory, and all hi. saints with him;" tbe object of
his coming -" as the Ancient of Days, to send biB angels into the
four winds of heaveD, gather his elect, raise the righteous dead,
wage the rigbleOU8 liviag, chain Satan, destroy anti-Christ, lhe
wicked, and all those who destroy the earth, judge, justify Bnd
glorify hi. people, c1elUll8 his cburch, pnnent her to his }o'alher, live
and reign with her on the new heavens and new earth," the form 01
the old having passed away.
Tha time wben these things shall take place is also specified, by
some of the propbets, unto !2300 days, (meaning years;) then shall
the sanctuary he cleansed, after the anti-Christian beast bas reigned
her .. time, times, and a half;" after the two wilaesses have
prophesied" a thousand two hundred and threescore days, clothed
in sackcloth;" after the church captivity in the wilderness, " forty-
two months; , after the "gospel thould be preached in all the--
world for a witness, then shall Ihe end come."
The signs of the
times are also given, wben we may know, be is near, even at the
door. When there are many" 10 here's and 10 there's;" when the
way of \ruth is evil spoken of; when many seducers are abroad in
thelalld; wben scoft'ers disbelieve in his coming, and say," Where
is the promise of his coming;" when the wise and foplish vitgins
are called to trim their lamps, and the voice of the friend of the
bridegroom is, " Debold, he cometh;" whim the city of the aatioJll
Digitized by Google

llfTllODtJCTIOJf.
15 divided into three parts; wben the power of the holy people ill
scaU
f the east come up to
is a
as never was before
her L
n the seventh seal 0
is po
pronouneed by the
the
the seventh and las
then
'od be finished, and
dosed
we be brought to th
ond eomlDg.
Again, propbecy is sometimes typical; that is, partly fuI6Jled in
the type, but completely only in the anti type. Sucb was the
prophecy concerning Isaac, partly fulfilled -in him, wbolly so in
Cbrist; likewise concerning Israel, partly fulfilled in them 88 a na-
tion, but never fully accomplished until the final redemption of
spiritual Israel. Like,,;se the prophecies coneerning the Jewisb
captivity in Babylon, and their return, are ooly partly accomplished '
in the
ts. The description
the p
and magnificent, tha
to the
the Jews and tbeir re
would
eo; therefore I bomb
exact
looked for in the ca
in th
the anti-Cbristian be
mysti
rification of the sain
salem state.
There are also 10 tbe 24th ebapteJ of Matthew many things propb-
esied of, which were not fulfilled at the destruction of Jerusalem;
such as the coming of the Son of Man in tbe clouds, the gathering
his elect from the four winds of heaven, bis taking one and leaving
iUother. This shows a typical meaning in this prophecy, and tbat
A will not all be fulfilled until tbe end of the world. Also, the
transfiguration of Cbrist 0\1 the mount, prophesied of by himself
eight
ced by Peter, 21 E
being
s second coming.
Wb
prophecies witb any
will n
great agreement betw
ment
New T Almost every
by eb
s may be found, in
proph
gures, which were fa
and readers of those !tmes. The foregoing rules are some of the
principal ones which I have observed in attempting to explain the
plOpbeeies of Daniel and John, and to give the time when the

IJITRODUOTJOl'f.
mystery of God will be IiDisbed, as I humbly believe it is revealed
to the propbets.
If I have erred in my exposition of the propbecies, tbe time, being
so near at hand, will soon expose my {oUy; but if I have the truth
on the subjects treated on in these pages, bow important the era in
which we live! What vast and important events must soon be
Jealized! and how necessary that every individual be prepared,
that that day Iilay not come upon tbem unawares, while they are
surfeited witb the !'ares and ricbes of tbis life, and the day overtake
them as a thief! "But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that that
day sbould overtake you as a thief," 1 Tbess. v. 4. In studying
theFe propbecies, I have endeavored to divest myself of all pre-
possessed opinions, not warranted by the word of God, and to
weigh well all the objections that migbt be raised from the Scrip-
tures; and after fourteen years' Btudy of tbe propbecies and other
parts of the Bible, I have come to the following conclusions, and
do now commit myself into the hands of God as my Judge, in
giving publicity to the sentiments herein contained, conscientiously
desiring that this little book may be the means to incite others to
_ study the Scriptures, and to see wbether these things be so, and that
some minds may be led to believe in tbe word of God, and find an
interest in the otl"ering and sacrifice of the Lamb of God, that their
sins might be forgiven them through the blood of the atonpment,
"wben the refreshing sball come from the presence of the Lord,
and from the glory of bis power," "when he comes to be admired
in all them that believe in that day!'
And now, my dear readers, I beg of you to lay aside prejudice r
examine this subject candidly and carefully for yourselves. Your
belief or unbelief will not affect the truth. If it is so, whatever you
may tbink or do will not alter the revealed purposes of God.
t. Not
onejot or tittle of bis word will fail;" but you may, by your obe-
dience in the faith, secure you an interest in the first resurrection,
and a glorious admittance into the New Jerusalem, and an inher-
itance among the justified in glory, and you may sit down with
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of God. May this ~
your lot- is tbe prayer of your servant,
WM. MILLER.
HAMPTON, Wcuhington Comlly, N. Y.
Digitized by Google

INDEX.
InaoooO'l'IOllf •••• "' •• '" '" '" "' •• '" '" '" ••• '" •••• '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" '" ••• '" ••••• '" '" '" ",.1
LECTURE L
'1' •• S8CI,,1ID A .... .&JQ ... 01' VHU.T.
'I'll .. U.I3.-~ (or
:::1:: ~;.~~.~~~~.~~~.~~! ..... c:-:r
LECTURE II •
.... 1'1_ a ... l7M8ClTlu. Bew. Do 6. -
B1 __ IIIld ~
IoIIle &ba&
ha&b pan Ia tile 1In& -.rrec&Ion I on eu.ch til. _nd dee&Il bItb
Il1O pjI"e, -1IuIII relln wltll him a Ibou.aaody.Ik ................. SIB
LlWTUIlS ilL
'1'.. Two TJIi>uulID Ta... Du .. n." D......
Den. Yill. 11, 1"-
-And Ile aa1d u.o&o .... Unto Iwo Ibousand IIuu h_red dar.:
tIIen IbeiItIIe dDc&u.arJ be cteaneej. .......................... .39
LECTURE IV.
DuIe1lx. 1M. -1IeYeD&, weeb are delennlnad Ilpoll til)' people, and
IlpOIl Ihl' hoi, cit,. to 1I111eh the Wn'Rreaaion, and &0 make an end
oC .101, uad to mate reeonc:nlallon for Ialqulty, and to brlnl In
&ftrluUol rlchIeoUlne .. , and to Ral u.p tb. Yillon and prophec:y
ud to anoiol the MOI& Hoi' .................................... &1
LECTURE V.
p.au.JtoIq KU ..... ".
Bey. %In. lB.-And bia II1Imbel IoI IIx
hIlndn4 ~
and IIx .... , ................................ 76
LEOTUUl VI.
D .... aL'. VIPO" OJ' '1''' L.a.n •• DA"I; 0., AII' ZzNIITrolf OJ' TR.
BuY"IITH Canna 01' D . .," .. L.
Dan. L 14.- Now I am c:ome
to make til .. uodenland what .hall bellill til, people In tile Iallef
d.,. .•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 86
LECTURE VII.
D .... tn·. ]260, 1!190., .... 0 1335 Dn. IIXPLAt".D. Daniel zit. S.-
And I beard, but 1 onden&ood no&: then aa1d I, 0 my Lord, what
uall be tile end of Ib ... Iblnl' 1 ............................... 100
LECTURE mI.
'1'10 THa •• WOII Tau" .. TI. Bev. viii. 13. - Woe, woe, woe, to
the InbabilanlB of the ellltb by reuon of tile other voices of Ibe
&llUDpe& oCtile &hree anpll wblch are y&& to _d .............. llll
Digitized by Google

LECTURE IX. and X.
Taa ., ...... TO Ta. B..... Ca"..,a.. 01' AI'~. CO ... 'D ..... d
APPLY,,,. TO B...... PaUOD. 01' 'lB. GOI. EL CB"..,B. Rn.
1.110 ...................................................... m.l4S
LECTURE XI.
Ta. N ... Bo.... Rev. v. D. - And the)' lIOn, • Dew _,. _rinl.
Thou art wonby to take the book •• nd to open the IMI8 tIiitieot; for
Ihon WUlIlalD. and b881 redeemed ua to GOd. I:c ............... 181
LECTURE XU.
Ta. S." •• S •• u, ........... TI.O E.,.zrn TO TID En 01' TI ...
B. ... V. 6. -
Bebold. tbe Lion of the tribe of Judah bath ..... 11ed
to open the book. and to 10018 the _D IMI8 thereat ........... 178
LECTURE XIII.
Ta. Two W'T........ ~. .....",... ..... .UI.. ,.. n. Pu .....
b"oLn,o... Be". D. 3. -
And I wUl ..... power nato my two
wItD-, and they .... 11 propbeay llIIIO" da)'a. ckJ&bed In -st-
cIo&b ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 180
LECTURB XIV.
Ta. Wo.~ .. , .. n. W'LD ..... n. Bev. 1II1. G.-And the .-
lied Into the wUdern_. where ... e bath .. place prepued ofGool.tha&
they .honId feed ber there 1lI6O dayo. ................ , .......... 1104
LECTURE XV.
Ta. B ...... LuT PLAn ••• O. B." ... V ....... by ••• 1. 17.-And.
the _nth anpl ponred out bill 'IIaIIDto the air' ad there eame ..
• crd::.~~.t. ~~.~.~~~~.~!.~.~~~!.~.~~.~~~:.~~::1i
LECTURE XVI.
Taa P~u.L& 01' 'tJI8 T ... V •• o..... Matt. U'I.1.-TboDlbalJtbe
klnlJlom or h."en be Ukened unto ten "I .... n •• wbleb took their
lam.., and went forth to meet the brldepaom .................. D
LECTURB XVII.
0 .. Ta. Pa .. ,.aa ... T 01' Ta. P.OPLa 01' Dot> B ...... ,T •••• 1'0.
n ••• B..... LeY .... 1. 113, 1M. ............................... 250
LECTURB XVm.
SoIomoD·. ~
viII. 6. -
Who II tbJ. that cometh up from the wl1-
dern_.
, upon ber belO'1ed 1 ............................ IIM
LECTURE XiX •
• ,a ... 01' 'tJI8 Pu .... T T'.... Man. znl. a. - But can ye nOl
, ~m
the alp. ottbe &1_1 ............................... .-a
Digitized by Google

LECTURE I.
TITUS n, 13,
LookiDg for that bJe_d hope, and glorious allpeariDg of the
great God, and our Savior Jesus CbliBt,
W BEN we take a view of the trials, pains, aftlictioDl,
persecutions, poverty, and distress, which the people of
God suffer in this world, we are almost led to exclaim
with the apostle, "If in this life only we have hope, we
are of all 'men most miserable." But no; we will not
complain; for to 'suffer the short period of threescore
years and ten, at most, will only w.ve a greater zest to
the glory which shall follow at the appearing of our
Lord 'and Savior the great God and Jesus Christ. I
know the world are taunting us with the inquiry,
"Where is the promise of his coming? for, since the
fathers fell asleep, all things remain as they were, even
from the creation of the world;" for they will pretend
to be ignorant (as the apostle Peter expresses himself
of the deluge) that ~e world that then was, being over-
flowed with wate~ perished; and still mt>re do they pre-
" tend to be ignorant, that the same earth is in like man-
ner to_be destroyed by fire, "reserved unto fire agaiDJt
the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men." 2
Peter iii. 7. Also, my brethren, there are some even
among us, who "are spots in your feasts of 'charity,
feeding themselves without fear; clouds without water,
carried about of winds; trees whose fruit withereth·
~wice dead, plucked up by the roots; raging waves or
the sea, foaming out their own mame; wanderinr
Digitized by Google

LECTUU I.
ItarB, to whom IS reserved the blackness of darme.
forever.
And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam,
prophesied of these, saying, Behold, the Lord cometh
with ten thousand of his saints, to execute judgment
upon all j and to convince all that are ungodly among
them of all their ungodly deeds which they have 1Ul-
godll committed, and of all their hard lpeecJru which
theyllave spoken against him. These are murmurers,
c
g after their 0
ir
m
great swelling wo
's
pee
tion, because of
t,
b
ye the words w
n
be
ties of our J."ord
w
th
there should be .
ast
ti
walk after their 0
•
These be they who separate themselves, sensual, haVlng
not the Spirit.
But ye, beloved, building up yourselves
on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost,
keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the
mercy (or glorious appearing) of our Lord Jesus Christ
unto eternal life." Jude 12-21. Or, as Peter says,
2 Pet. iii. 12, .. Looking for and hasting unto the coming
of the dll of God." And again, Paul sa
in Heb.
ix.
them that look
e
ap
time without si
"
A
ith, to his Philipp
or
our
in heaven j from
e
, the Lord Jesus
ch
dy, that it may
e
un
dy."
Havmg thus proved that the apostles directed our
hope to the coming of Christ for the fulfilment of all
our trials and persecutions, and the completion of our
faith, I shall now take up our subject in the following
order: -
I. I shall endeavor to prove that it is yet
, future j viz., the coming of Christ, spoken of in the text.
II. The certainty of his coming. III. The object of
his comin
the
til
ding to our des
e Lord Jesus C
e.
t

CHRIST'S .BC0N.» COMING.
Some teach us that he came at the destruction of
Jerusalem, and quote to the ~th chapter of Matthew
as proof: Let us examine their evidence. Ail J es1iB
went out of the temple, his disciples came to him for
to show him the buildings of the temple, where Christ
delivered his memolllble prophecr, which WIl8 exactly
fulfilled in little more than thirty-six years afterwlllds,
"There shall not be left here one stone upon another
that shall not be thzown down."
And it appears that, afterwards, as Jesus sat ullOn the
Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him pnvately,
having, as may reasonably be supposed, been rumi-
aating in their minds, OT conversing among themselves,
on the prophecy, and had, perhaps, supposed that DO
power on 8Illth could destroy those strong buildings,
and concluded that, when this was accomplished, it
would be the judgment-day.
They therefore inquire
of him, "saying, Tell us, when shall these things be Po"
that is, what he had prophesied of; "and what shall
be the sign of thy coming, and of the end of the
world?" They might not have intended to ask more
than one question; yet they did ask three, and Christ
enswered them accordingly. He had before told them
of the destruction of Jerusalem, 4th, 5th, and 6th
verBes; he cautions them against being deceived with
falsft Christa, and not to be troubled at wars and rumore
of wars, -
and yet Jerusalem was destroyed in the
first war of any note after this prophecy,-and then
says plainly, "The end is not yet." Now, if this end
was the destruction of Jerusalem, then where are those
wars, spoken of by Christ?
This cannot mean any
thing less than the end of the world. From the 7th
to the 14th verse, inclusive, he gives a prophetic history
of the trials, afBictions, and persecutions of his people,
and also of the success of thegospeJ immediately
previous to the end, and says, "Then shall the end
come."
Now, it must be evident that this cannot mean the
end of Jerusalem, because, if so, he that endured unto
the end was to be saved from all the troubles which
Christ had been speaking of; and it was Dot true that
Digitized by Google

LECTUU L
the disciples of Christ did not suffer afterwards the
same things which Christ said they would. From the
15th to the 28th verse, Christ instructs his di3ciples
into their duty during the siege of Jerusalem, and also
down to the coming of the Son of Man. .This, you
will see, must mean Christ in person; because neither
the Holy Spirit nor Father is any where called Son
flf Man. He likewise speaks of the signs which should
follow the destruction of Jerusalem. From the 29th
to the 35th verse, inclusive, Christ explains the signs
in the heavens and on the earth immediately after the
tribulation of the people of God, which had been
spoken of as the common lot of all his followers, and
which he had promised to shorten for the elect's sake,
and of his commg in the clouds with power and great
glory; the gathering of his elect from the four winds of
-heaven; gives his disciples the parable of the fig tree,
as an illustration of the end; and then says to his disci-
ples, "Verily, I say unto you, This generation shall not
pass till all these things be fultilled; heaven and earth
shall pass Ilway, but my words shall not pass away."
Here is the great stumbling-block to many. C~
is talking about his elect, his children, and his gene-
ration; and not, as some will have it, about the genera-
tions that then lived on the earth; for they did un-
doubtedlf pass oft; a large share of them; for it was
about thirty-six years before the destruction of Jeru-
salem.
But his kingdom has never been taken from
the earth. Although they have been hunted from one
part of the earth to another; although they have been
ilriven into caves and dens of mountains; have been
slain, burnt, Bawn asunder; have wandered as piJgrims
and strangers on the earth; - yet the "blood of the
martyrs.bas been the seed of the church;" and Christ
has had, and will have, a people on the earth, until his
second coming. 1 Peter ii. 9: "But ye are a chosen
generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nstion, a peculiar
people," &c. The Psalmist says," A seed shall serve
him; it shall be accounted to the Lord tor a genera-
tion." Psalm xxii. 30.
I humbly believe that Christ
bas quoted the sentiment contained in the 100d Psalm,
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECOND COIIIING.
25th to last verse: "Of old hast thou laid the founcJa.
tion of the earth; and the heavens -are the work ot
thine hands. They shall perish, but thou shalt en~ure;
yea, all of them shall wax old like a garment; as a
vesture shalt thou change them, and they lIhall be
changed; but thou art the same, and thy ye8.T8 shall
have no end. The children of thy servants shall con-
tinue, and their seed shall be established before thee."
Here we see the Psalmist has expressed the same
sentiment that I unde1Stand Christ to have given
in these two verses, which I conclude is the prop-
er explanation.
And then the .... ~arables which fol-
low in the remainder of the .00th and 25th chap-
ters, are easily understood ~having reference to
the end of the world; and ~1tat way will exactly
compare. See the 31st verse of the 25th chapter:
"When the Son of Man shall come in hi(f glory ~d
all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit . ~
throne of hiS glory; and before him shall. be.:pllUi.!l
all nations," &c •. This verse was not fulfilled at £hi
destruction of Jerusalem, for the "~ of~" was
not seen in the clouds with power and,"1Pt "lory;
and yet. the words are, "every eye shall -him·; and
as sudden and as visible" as the lightning, that shineth
from the east even unto the west, so shall the coming
of the Son of Man be." Can this have passed, and the
history of the world have been silent? No. Could all
nations be gathered before him, and there be divided,
the righteous from the wicked, and the one part sent to
everlasting punishment, while the other is received to
life eternal, and none know it? No. Were the elect
gath8n!d from the four winds of heaven at the destruc-
tion of Jerusalem? No; they were commanded to
Bee to the mountains; and history says they <lid leave
that devoted city when the Romans encompassmJ. it with
their armies. Then, could the prophecies~ntained in .
these chapters have been fulfilled, and the world remain
ignorant of some of the most important events 9 I
answer, No. Then the " Son of Man" did not come to
the destruction of Jerusalem. If he did, where is the
evidence? !.ion&, none, not a particle. But if he did
Digitized by Google

LEOTUU I.
come to the destruction of Jerusalem, then it must have
been his second coming j for Paul says, Heb. ix. 28,
II And unto them that look for him shall he appear the
aecond time without sin unto Balvation." Can this be
true if he came to Jerusalem? The psssage certainly
impliel!l that his people would have no more Bin, or
afterwards would be .. without sm." Experience teaches
us to the contrary. Again it is said, 1 Thea. iv. 16, 17,
"For the Lord himself aball deec'end from heaven with
a about, with the voice of the archangelz and with the
trump of God j and the dead in ChriBt anall ariBe first;
then we, which are alive and remain, shall be caught up
together with them in the clouds to meet the LOrd in
the air j and so shall we ever be WIth the Lord." Who
saw this great tranBaction at Jerusalem? Were there
no witnesses ? Yes, the apostle John lived many ye8.l'll
after this, and wrote his Gospel, his Epistles, and his
Revelation, long after the destruction of Jerusalem.
And what does he testify? In his Gospel, 14th chapter,
3d verse, "And if I go and prepare a place for you, I
will come and receive lOU to myself, that where I am
there ye may be also.
Again, 28th and 29th verses,
"Ye have heard how I said unto you, I go away, and
come agaift unto you. If ye loved me, ye would re-
joice, because I said, I go unto the Father; for my
Father is greater than I. And now I have told you
before it come to pass, that when it is come to psss, ye
might believe." Ag!lin, 1 John ii. 28," And now, little
children, abide in him, that, when he shall appear, we
may have confidence, and not be ashamed before him
, at his coming." And iii.2," Beloved, now are we the
SODS of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall
be j but we know that when he shall appear, we !!hall
be like Jlim j for we shall see him as he is." And,
again, m Rev. i .. 71• "Behold, he cometh with clouds,
and every eye sJIall see him; and they also which
pierced him, and all kindreds of the earth, shall wail
because of hIm." Many more places might be men-
tioned in John's testimony, but not one word that he had
already come again, as some supposed. Let this, then,
IUffice to prove, that the "glorimAI appearing," spoken
of in our text, is still future.
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECO~ COJUNS •
. And now we will examine some of the evidence of
the certainty of his coming, which is our second
proposition.
,
.
IL The certainty of it:
1st. Because the ancient prophets slI spake of it.
Jude tolls us that Enoch, the seventh from Adam,
prophesied, saying, Behold the Lord cometh, with ten
thousands of his saints, &c. Balaam was constrained
to admit, "Out of Jacob shslI come he that shall have
dominion, and shall destroy him that remaineth of the
city," plainly referring to the judgment-day; for he
says, "Alas! who shslI live when God doth this?"
See Numbers xxiv. 17-23. And Moses as plainly
refers to this day in Deut. xxxii. 43, " Rejoice, 0 ye
nations, with his people, for he will avenge the blood of
his servants, and will render veneeance to his adversa-
ries, and will be merciful to his land and to his people."
David says, Psalm L 3, 4, "Our God shslI come, and
shall not keep silence; a fire shslI devour before him,
and it shall be very tempestuous round about him; he
shslI cslI to the heavens from above, and to the earth,
(that he mal judge his people.") And IsR. xl. 5, "And
ilie glory 0 the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh
shslI see it together; for the mouth of the Lord hath
spoken it." In the 39th chapter of Ezekiel, you will
see the same day of judgment prophesied of in a clear
and plain manner. In Dan. vii. 9, 10, " I beheld till the
thrones were cast down, and the Ancient of days did
sit, whose garment WlU' white as snow, and the' hair of.
his head like the ;pure wool: his throne was like the
fiery flame, and hIS wheels as burning fire. A fiery
stream issued and came forth before him: thousand
thousands ministered unto him, and ten thousand times
ten thousand stood before him: the judgment was set,
and the books were opened." Joel iIi. 14," Multitudes,
multitudes in the vslIey of decision, for the day of the
Lord is near in the valley of decision." Zeph. i. 14,
"The great day of the Lord is near; it is near, and
hasteth greatly, even the voice of the day of the Lord;
the mighty men shall cry there bitterly." Zech. xiv. 5,
.. And the Lord thy God shall come, and all the saints
Digitized by Google
•

LECTUU I.
WI
• 2, " But unto you
a
shall the Sun of Righteousness arise with healing in his
wings, and ye shall go forth, and grow up Il.!l calves in
the stall" And Christ himself says, in Matt. xvi. 27,
"For the Son of Man shall come in the glory of his
Father, with his angels; and then shall he reward every
man according to his works.» The angels that stood
by the disciples at the time Jesus ascended up, and a
cl
.
. out of their sigh'
f
G
ye gazing up in
is
Ba
is taken up from
n,
sh
e manner as ye
in
t us take partic
e
p
esuB, and compare
el
p
God Bhall
COI7W!,
e
to
that Jesus ,Christ
as
man, and we may have strong consolation fur our hope
in his appearing, for his promises can never fail.
"Heaven and earth may pass away, but not one jot
or tittle of his word shall fail." Also take notice of
the words "like manner," which agree with the oftel'
expressed sentence," He shall come in the clouda ef
heaven." We shall be led to admire the general har-
m
'ptures, and the
e
pr
escriptions of fut
m,
C
church of .Philad
1,
"
uicklX: hold that
at
n
own.
" Forlet
rl
h
will come, an wi
b.
x.
t the'evidence I
m
tl
e sufficient to pro
y f
his future coming? And if I should argue the tradition
of nations that never !law the word of God, the convic-
tion on the mind of men generally, that there must be
a day of retribution; could I open the breast of the
reader, and show the thundering of your conscience;
yes, could I see and expose the tremblings and failings
of heart, which you have had, while you have been
10'
.
for those things
n
tJ\
t use would it be
e-
li
raise a dead frie
II

CHalST's BXCOND COllUNG •
19·
.
you to prepare to meet your God? No. If they be-
lieve not M.oses and the prophets, neither would they
though one rose from the dead. How foolish, then,
would it be for me to try to prove In any other manner
what God has revealed or promised, than by the means
which God has appointed. By his word you will be
judged; and if this condemns you now, (unless you be~
come reconciled,) it will condemn you hereafter.
III. The object of his coming.
.
1st. He comes to raise and gather his saints to him
in the air. " As in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all
be made alive; but every man in his own order -
Christ'
the tirst fruit, afterwards they that are Christ's at his
coming," 1 Cor. xv. 22, 23. Again, "For if we be·
lieve that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also
which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. For
this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we
which are alive, and remain unto the coming of the
Lord, shall not prevent them that are asleep. For the
Lord himself shall descend from heaven WIth a shout,
with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of
God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we,
which are alive and remain, shall be caught up together
with them in the clouds to meet the LOrd in the air;
and so shall we ever be with the Lord," 1 Theas. iv.
14-17. "Now we beseech you, brethren, by the
::oming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by our gathering
together unto him," 2 Thess. ii. 1. "Blessed and holy
is he that hath part in the first resurrection: on !luch the
second death shall have no power," Rev. xx. 6.
In
Psalms we have the same account of the gathering of
his people. " Gather my saints together unto me, those
who have made a covenant with me by sacrifice,"
Psalm I. 5. Again, see Isaiah }xvi. 18, "It shall come
that I will gather all nations and tongues; and they shall
come and see my glory." " For thus saith the Lord God,
Behold, I, even r, will both search my sheep and seek
them out. As a shepherd seeketh out his flock in the
day that he is among his sheep that are scattered; so will
I seek out my sheep, and will deliver them out of all
places where they have been scattered in the cloudy and
dark day," Ezekiel xxxiv. lI, 12.
Digitized by Google

LBCTUU ..
And now I rerer IOU to one more passage, and then
pass on. " Behold,
show you a mfstery; we shall Dot
all sleep, (that is, die,) but we.mal all be changed, in
a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump i
for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised
incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For this cor-
ruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must
put on immortality. So when this mortal shall put on
lmmortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying
that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory." These
texts, to which I have called your attention, will apply
only to the people of God, or those who are in Christ
Jesus. I have, therefore, only been proving to you the
object of Christ's coming, as it respects his people. And
I tbink I have plainly proved that when Christ shall ap-
pear in the clouds of heaven with power and great
glory, he will raise the righteous dead, change the
righteous living, gather them from among an nations,
where they have been scattered during the ages of per-
secution and trial, "in the dark and cloudy day," and
receive them unto himself in the air, when they will ever
be with the Lord. -
I will,
2dly, Show that the wicked will be destroyed from
the earth by fir,e, and the world cleansed from the curse
of sin by the same means, and prepared for the recep- .
tion of the New Jerusalem state, or the glorious reign
of Christ with his people. That the wicked will be de-
stroyed by fire, at his appearing, we prove by the filllow-
ing, texts: Deut. xxxii. 22, "For a fire is kindled in
mine anger, and shan bum unto the lowest hell, and shan
consume the earth, with her increase, and set on fire the
foundations of the mountains." 2 Samuel xxii. 9, 10, 13,
"There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out
of his mouth devoured: coals were kindled by it. He
bowed the heavens and came down, and darkness was '
under his feet. Through the brightness before him
were coals of fire kindled." Psalm xcvii. 2, 3, "Clouds
and darkness are round about him, righteousness and
judgment are the habitation of his throne. A fire goeth
before him, and bumeth up his enemies round about."
!sa. lxvi 15, 16, "For, behold, the Lord will come with
Digitized by Google

&re, and with his chariots like a whirlwind, to render his
anger with fury, and his rebuke with dames of fire.
For by fire and by his sword will the Lord plead with
all desh; and the slain of the Lord shall 6e many."
Dan. 'rii. 11, "I beheld then, because of the voice of the
great words which the hom spake; I beheld even till
the beast was slain, and his body destroyed, and given to
the burning dame." Again, Nahum i. 5, "The moun-
tains quake at him, and the hills melt, and the earth is
burnt at his presence; rea, the world and all that dwell
therein." Habakkuk iii. 3-5," God came from.Teman,
(south) and the Holy One from Mount Paran, (from
glory.) Selah •. His glory covered the heavens, and the
earth was full of his praise: and his brightness was as
the light; he had homs coming out of his hand; and
there was the hiding of his power. Before him went
the pestilence, and burning coals went forth at his feet.
He stood and measured the earth; he beheld and drove
asunder the nations, and the everlasting mountains were
lICattered, the perpetual hills did bow: his ways are ever-
lasting." Also, Malachi iv. 1," For, behold, the day com-
eth that shall bum as an oven; and all the proud, yeo.,
and all that do wickedly, shall be Stubble; and the day
that cometh IIhan bum them up, saith the Lord of hosts,
that it ahallleave them neither root nor branch." Matt.
iii. 12, "Whose fan is in his hand, and he will thor-
oughly purge his door, and gather his wheat into the
garner; but he will burn up the chaff' with unquenchable
fue." Matt. xiii. 30, "Gather ye together first the tares,
and bind them in bundles to burn them; but gather the
wheat into my barn." 40," As therefore the tares are
gathered and burnt, so shall it be in the end of the
world." 49th verse," So shall it be in the end of the
world: the angels shall come forth, and sever the wicked
from among the just." Again, Paul to the church of the
Thessalonians writes, "And to you who are troubled,
rest with us; when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed
from heaven with his mighty angels, in daming fire, tak-
ing vengeance on them that know not God, and that
obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ; who shall
be punished with everlasting destrulftion from the pres
Digitized by Google

LECTIlU I.
'ence of the Lord, and from the glory of his power.·
2 Peter iii. 10, "But the day of the Lord will come as a
thief in the night, in the which the heavens shall pass
away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt
with fervent heat; the earth also, and the works that are
therein, shall be burned up." Rev. xviii. 8, "Therefore
shall her plagues come in one day -
death, and mourn-
ing, and famine; and she shall be utterly burned with fire ;
for strong is the Lord God who judgeth her."
These
passages are but a part of the word of God which prove
the destruction of the wicked -
of the anti·Christian
beast-'and the cleansing of the world by fire. Yet if
Scripture proof can be sufficient, surely I have brought
enough; and where that can hllve no bearing on the
mind of men, how vain should I be to search the ar·
chives of natural philosophy to give )"00 more evi·
dence! for He who hath all wisdom in heaven and in
earth, and who knows what is in the mind of man, hath
used the best arguments, the most persuasive means (1
had like to have said) in the power of a God to use; and
indeed he says, "What could 1 have done more than I
have done for my vineyard."
He has taught us by his
own word, by the mouth of his prophets, and by exam-
pIes: witness his word on Mount Sinai, where the peo-
ple heard his voice and saw the fire; witness all the dec-
Jllmtions of the prophets which I have read; witness
I.esus Christ himself, in the parable of the tares and
wheat, and the harvest; witness, also, the destruction of
the old wurld by water, and Sodom and Gomorrah by
fire; Jerusalem by famine, sword, and fire. These are all
set forth as samples to warn us of the approachill~ judg-
ment. And yet who believes the report? Who IS will·
ing to examine the evidences- to reason candidly and
to reflect seriously on these things? Who among us
puts implicit confidence in the word of God, especially
in that which is unfulfilled? Any may believe in so
much as has been accomplished; but where is the virtue
in such faith? Where is the blessedness of our hope
in the glorions 'lppearing of Jesus Christ? If we are
"looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appear-
ing of the great God and our Savior Iesus Christ," we
Digitized by Google

CBlUIIT'S BECOND COllDNG.
ahall examine the word of God faithfully; we shall
compare scripture with scripture; we shall take notice .
of the signs which Christ has given us of his cOlDing.
That the day may not overtake us as a thief, we should
live with a steady reference to that day, and rejoice
more and more as we see the day aPllroaching.
3d. I will now give some of the eVidences concerning
the glorious reign which must folJow his coming. The
earth, being cleansed by fire, will, like the phamix, be
revived frOm its own ashes.
The destruction 01 the
wicked, the end of death, sin banished, it will lighten
the world of a load of crime which has made it reel to
and fro like a drunkard; the internal fires will have
Bpent their force on all combustible matter, and have
gone out; volcanoes will cease; earthquakes, tornadoes,
and whirlwinds can no more be experienced or needed,
for the cause is gone; the earth or the heavens can
no more be shaken, "that those things that cannot be
shaken may remain. Wherefore we receiving a king-
dom which cannot be moved, let us have grace, whereby
we may Berve God acceptably, with reverence and
godly fear; for our God is a consuming fire," Heb. xii.
27-29. Then, when this earth shall become new, by·
being cleansed and purified, the New Jerusalem will
"come down from God out of heaven, prepared as a
bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a great
voice out of heaven, sayin~, Behold, the tabernacle of
God is with men, and he wlll dwell with them, and they
shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them
and be their God," Rev. xxi. 2, 3. "And he carried
me away in the spirit to a great and high mOl1ntain, and
showed me that great city, the Holy Jerusalem, descend-
ing out of heaven from God, having the glory of God," .
10th verse. "And the city had no need of the sun,
neither of the moon; to shine in it, for the glory of God
did lighten it, and the Lamb is the light thereof."
"And I saw thrones and they that sat upon them, and
judgment was given unto them; and I saw the 80uls of
them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesll~, nnd
for the word of God, and which had not worshipped the
beast, neither his image, neither had received his mark
Digitized by Google

LBCTUU L
In their foreheadl, or in their himds; and they lived
and reigned with Christ a thousand years; but the rest
of the dead lived not again until the thousand yean
were finished."
Much more evidence might be brought to prove the
personal reign of Jesus Christ with his people; but this
IS enough to prove the glorious and personal reign after
the resurrection; but few dispute it. But, say some, do
you not believe in a spiritual reign of a thousand years
before the resurrection? I answer, I believe in a reign
of grace, by the in1luence of the divine Spirit, for more
than 1800 years past; but when you speak of a thou-
sand years, I suppose you mean the same time that 1
call the glorious reign after the resurrection of the
righteous, and before the resurrection of the wicked. I
know' of no spiritual reign, mentioned in the word of
God, and especially of that duration. We argue that
there cannot be a reign of peace and glory until the
world is cleansed from all wickedness, Satan is chained,
and righteousness fill our world;, nor until" the glorious
appearing of the lP'eat God and our Savior J esus Christ,"
even the anti-Christian beast will not be destroyed, (ac-
cording to the texts we have already quoted,) until they
are destroyed by" the brightness of his appearing." AU
those passages whicb speak of this happy period of rest
to the people of God, or which in any manner allude to
it, describe it as being after the resurrection of the
saints, or after righteousness fills the earth, and after the
anti·Christian beast is destroyed. And even our text
more than implies that we shall not realize any great or
(rlorious results from our hope, or collectively in a body
the church will not receive any important deliverance
until the "glorious ~pearin~ of the great God and our
Savior Jesus Christ.
Is this true? 1 say the passages
of Scripture already named fix it beyond a doubt.
And anyone who will examine the scripture for himself,
will find that the second coming of Christ is the point
to which Jesus Christ, the prophets, and the apostles di-
rected their disciples, as the termination of their trials,
Jlelll&Cutions, and aiBictiQD8; and Jesus Christ says," In
the world ye shall have tribulation." I say, I can find
Digitized by Google

CBlUBT'BUGOD COIDlfa.
•
IIOtbing iD the word of God ,to 'ItaIII.Ilt me to ben ..
that we ought to look for or expect a happier perioi
than we DOW enjoy, until he who has promised to COIDII
shall come the second time without sin IJDto salvatio.a,
and cleaDse us, th" world, -and make all thiDge 00 ••
These things are abuDdantly proved in the unerring
word of GOO.
And now, ChriaU&I1II, if these things IIl8
so, what manner of pe1'IODi ought we to be in all holy
conversation and a-odliness, loo){ing for and hasting unto
the day of God, "loo1tin« for that bleBBed hope and the
gloJioUll appearing of tlle great God and our Savior
J esUll ChriSt .. ? Then let our convel'88.tion be in hesven,
from whence we expect our Savior, and stir up each
other's pure minds blWB.Y of remembrance of these
th~
j Ifor the time.o the promise dmweth nigh, when
he Will come and receive us to himself, that we may be
with him.
How necessa'1:, my brethren, we sbowd
examine the word of God diligently j see if it does not
give some indications, lOme signs, by which we mal
know the "Son of Man is nesr, even at the door," and
our "blessed hope" is about to be realized in the
"glorioul!I appeanng of the great God and our Savior
the Lord J eI!IUS Christ." If he comea and finds us, or
some of us, in this lukewarm sta,te,hardly having looked
into his word, and, making our want of talents an excuse,
have neglected to trim Our lamps, and have been very
spare in holy convel'88.tion, and are crying peace and
safety when sudden destruction cometh, and perhaps
have aneerinJrly mocked and laughingly ridiculed the
idea of Christ being. near at the door, and perhaps
have joined the infidel and unbeliever in their unholy
remarks on this subject, and although we have heard
the midnight cry, "Behold, the bridegroom cometh," yet
we treat it with neglect or disdain, or some of us, per-
haps, with reproa.ch; -
I uk, if the Lord of s~ch l!Iervants
come and find us so doing, what will he do with us?
He will come in an hour that we think DOt, and cut us
oft'; and appoint our portion among hypocrites and un-
believers, where shall be weeping, wailing, and gnash~
of teeth. But we will suppose that he will not come III
10 lIhort a time u your speaker believel!l j still what do J
.
Digitized by Google

UCTUU L
uk or yon, my brethren? Nothing but what Jena
Christ and the apoetles recprlred 1800 years ago. I ask
you to compare these VIews with the Bible. Is this
wrong? No: I ask you for holy conversation. Is
this wrong? No. I ask you for heavenly-mindedness.
Is this wrong? No, no. I ask you to stir up each
other's pure minds, to make improvement on your one
talent if no more; to come out of this cold and lukewarm
state; to trim your lamps and be ready. Are these re-
quirements wrong? Certainly not; no, no. J ask you
again to compare scripture with scripture; to read the
prophets; to stop your revilings; to take warning by the
old world; to flee from sin and the wrath which is to
come; to hide yourselves in Christ, until the indignation
be over and past; to look" for that blessed hope and the
glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior
J esus Christ." 18 this wrong? Then be the wrong on
my head.
.
, And now, my impenitent friends, what say you? .. We
say, • You knownothi~about it.'" Do you believe the
old world was deluged r " Why, yes." What makes you
believe it? "Because our philosophers tell us there are
a great many signs remaimng of the flood, and we can
believe them." And are there no signs of the near ap-
proach of the Judgment Day? What say the prophets,
apostles, and Jesus Christ? Are they not equal to .your
philosophers? Examine your Bibles, and see; weigh
well the evidence; your eternal happiness, the salvation
of your immortal souls, may depend on your decision.
But what say you more? "Wesay,'You were very un-
wise to fix on the year 1843, or sooner, for this day to
come; for it will not come; and then you will be
ashamed." And I hope I may be able, by the grace of
God, to repent. But what if it does come ? You can-
not with any propriety say positively it will not come,
for you make no pretence to divination. But I say,
What if it does come? Where will you be? No space
then for repentance. No, no-too late, too late; the
harvest is over and past, the summer is gone, the door
is sllut, and your soul is not saved. Therefore it can do
you no harm to hear, and believe, and do those things
Digitized by Google

cmusT's SECOND COllllfG.
which God requires of yoo, and wluch Iou think you
would do, if you knew he would appear. First, I uk you
to repent of your sins. Would this be right? Yes.
Next, I ask you to believe in God. Is this right? Yes.
And I ask you to be reconciled to his will, love his law,
forsake sin, love holiness, practise his precepts;' obey his
eommands. Would these things be right~Yea, yes.
And last of all, and not least, I ask you to "look fur that
illessed hope and the glorious a~g
of the great
God and our Savior Jesus Christ.
.amen.
Digitized by Geogle

LECTURE lI.
REV: Do 6.
Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurreetiou i ..
such the second death hath DO power; hut they shall be pneBlB
of God and of Christ, IlIid shall reign with him a thOUllllld years.
To term "blessed and holy" is often used in Scrip-
ture, and in many places is applied to man; but in DO
place without giving some characteristic mark of his
being born of God, or inheriting the fruits of the divine
Spirit; and very often the word blessed is used standing
In immediate connection with the resurrection ana
coming of christ, either expressed or implied, as in !sa.
lxii. 11, 12, "Behold, the Lord hath proclaimed unto the
end of the world, Say ye to the daughter of Zion, Beltold,
thy salvation cometh; behold, his reward is with him,
and his work before him. And they shall call them The
holy people, The redeemed of the Lord; and thou shalt
be called, Sought out, A city not forsaken." Isa.:xxx.
18, "And therefore will the Lord wait, that he may be
gracious unto you, and therefore will he be exalted, that
he may have mercy upon you; for the Lord is a God of
judgment. Ble&tedare all they that wait for him." Dan-
Iel says, xii. 12, " Bleued is he that waiteth, and cometh to
the 1335 da~" John says, Rev. xiv. 13, "Bleued are
the dead WhiCh die in the Lord." "Write, Blu6td are
they which are called to the marriage supper of the
Lamb." "Behold, I come quickly; blUlled 18 he that
keepeth the sayings of the prophecy of this book. It
. " Bleued p.re they that do his commandments, that theJ
Digitized by Google

CBRlSTS IIBCOD COMll'a.
may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in
through the gates into the city." By these passages 1
show you that all the children of GOd are included in
this blessing, and not the martyrs only, as some wi1l
have it. Tile next thing which will clann our attention
wi1l be to explain the resurrection spoken of in our
text, called the first resurrection. The word ruurrection
signifies to revive, or resuscitate, or bring to life again,
one now dead, who was once alive. It nowhere in the
word of God conveys an idea of a new creation, and
the word is nowhere 1l8ed in the Bible expressing any
thing less or more than a union of soul and body, and
deliverance from natural death. The word ruurredion
is nowhere used in a figurative sense; it in all places
has its own simple meaning, unless our text is an ex-
ception. And without the obJector can show some rule
of interpretation by which we shall be warranted to
understand the word in a different sense, we must b~g
leave to attach to it the simple meaning, coming to life
from the grave. I know some have supposed that regen-
eration is resurrection; but 1 cannot believe this unless
they show some rule. I know some pretend to show us,
in 10hn v. 25, "Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour
is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the
voice of the Son of God, and they that hear shall live,"
as a rule; but in order to make this a rule, they must
prove that Christ meant regeneration; until this is shown,
we cannot admit it as any proo£
-,
We shall, therefore, consider the word ~
as coming 'Up. out of the fS"ave, and pass to the word
jirllL " The first resurrection." The resurrection of the
saints is first as it respects order and time. Wherever
the word ruurredion is- used in connection with life or
~
the one unto life always comes first; as in
buii~ xii. 2, "Some to. everlasting life, and some to
~
and everlast!ng contempt;" 10hn v.29, "They
that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and
they that luwe done evil, unto the resurrection of
damnatiolL" Here are twO samples as it respects order.
One or two. ~it te/jpects time: 1 Cor. xv. 23, ". Christ
the . first fiuits, thea 'al'tenrard thev that are Christ's at
3-
Digitized by Google

UC'I'UU U.
hIS coming.
Then eometh the end."
And agaiD,
1 Theea. iv. 16, "For the Lord himself shall deeeend
from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the arch-
angel and the trump of God; and the dead in Christ
elui:ll rise fimt."
And then our context and text showR
that the blessed and holy are rai8ed a thousand year.
before the rest of the dead. If we are correct, theD,
Christ will come before the millennium instead of after-
wards, as lOme believe; and the millennium is a state of
pemonal, and glorious, and immortal reign on the new
earth, or this earth cleansed by fire, as it was once
by water; and it will be a new dispel18&tion, neW'
heavens, and new earth. This will be our next propo-'
8ition to prove. And, fimt, we will examine the 20th
chapter of Revelation, 1st verse: "..!Ind I ,aw an
tmgd _
dmJm from. heaven;" -
thIS angel I consider
no 1_ a being iha.n the Lord Jesus Chri.8t; for it only
can be said of him; -" ~
the key of 1M bottomlua
~ and a greaJ chain in AV hand." See Rev. i. 18:
"I am he t1iat liveth and was dead; and behold, I am
alive for evermore, amen, and have the keys of hell and
of death." And Christ onI)' has power to bind Satan.
"That he might destroy him that had the power of
death, that is, the devil," Heb. ii. 14.
2d veme: ".!Jnd
Ae laid 1wltl on tM dragon, that old .erptnt., JJJ1rich is u..
deW, and Satan, and bOUnd Aim II t1wfuo.nd yean." I
suppose this verse needs no explanation. It can only
be undemtood in a literal sense, for it explains itself in
the figures used; as dragon and IIeI'ptfIl, often used
as figures, are explained to mean the deW and SaJan.
If tile . thousand years had been used, in this chapter,
or any where else in the word of GOd, in a mystical
or figurative sense, it would have been IOmewhere ex-
plained; but, as it is not, I consider we are to place
upon it the most simple construction, and I !!hall there-
fore understand it literally. 3d vema: "And C08t Aim
into u.. bottomlu, pit;" -
by ~ottD1nless pit, I have
!!hown, by the proof on our first V61'1lEl, that it is hell;
see Rev. i. 18; -
"and ,htd him up and set II seal upon
Aim, that 11£ .Iwuld deceive 1M natioM flO more, till the
......, "..., BIu1uld be jVlJiJlMl; and qfkr that lie IftUIC
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S IJlCOlQ) COIIIl'fG.
lie looIed a litIle aeillon." Tbia)lUBBge must be under-
atood in its aimpJ~ plain meamng; no mystery in thia.
4th vmse: ".Ibul I IIG1D thronu, MId UuJy lilt on them,
mad j'lJllg1nmt UJa8 ~
tmto tlatm; " -"here we have
a prophecy of the fWfilment of a promise that Christ
made to hia -disciples, in Matt. xix. 28: "ADd J esu.
Said unto them, Verily, I lay unto you, that ye which
have fonowed me in the regeneration, when the Bon
of Man ahall ait in the throne of hi. glory, ye also
shall ait upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes
of Israel;" -" and I IIG1D the IOVl8 oj t1atm tNzt IDeI'll
be1uJtuJed for the wilneu oj JUtJII, mad lor the UJord oj
God, tmtf tl11&iih 1rBd fUJt UJOr81Apped the betut, mit1aer 1ii8
image, mit1aer 1uMI receiml1ri8 mark 'Upon tMir joreheada,
or ift their 1umdi; and (My litJed aM Ttigned tJJitA CltrVI
/.I Owuatmd yeaT8."
In thi. description we have the
whole family of the redeemed; for all that had not
worshipped the beast or biB Image, or receivei a mark,
and, in one word, all that were not the jlervanta of Satan
or sin, lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years.
5th verse: "But the rut oj the dMd litJed tUJt again
U1Itil the t1wv.atmd yt.t1n toere finiaW Thia if the firllf.
ruurredion." The reIIf. oj the dMd meana the wicked
dead, who do not have part in the fim resurrection;
lit1ed tUJt again, showing conclusively that it is a natural
life and death spokel'l o£ The firtd reatJmlction is the
resurrection of the saints at biB coming. Then comel
in our text, which has and will be explained in the
lecture. 7th verse: ".Ibul UJhen the t/w'U8/JM ytar8 are
ezpired, Srdar& 81uJl1 be looat4 out of 1ri8 yriIrYn.." We
may reasonably eXJM:Ct that, when Satan is let loose,
all the damned splrits are let loose with him; and it
has been strongly implied they were to live again in
the body, at the end of the thousand years. 8th verse:
. ".!Jnd. 81uJll go out" - that is, Satan - "to deceitJe the
fIIJtiou UJ1&ick are in the.four 1]1U11'Ier8 oj the ettrlh" -
"ashes under the feet of the saints," as Malachi tells
us: "And ye ahall tread down the wicked; for they
shall be ashes under the soles of your feet in the day
that I shall do this, saith the Lord of hosts" -" Gog
_
Magog" -
the armies of the wicked that were
Digitized by Google

LBCT11U II.
slain at the commencing of the thousand yean, 01
coming of Christ, at the supper of the great God, and
battle of Annageddon; see Ezekiel xxxviii., uxix.-
" to gal/Ier them togetlrer to baltle;" -
this is their
design, but there is no battle, for God himself is with
his people to defend them; and he destroys the wicked
host, "tM number of whom W t1JI tM laRd of 1M Mt&; to
evidently including the whole number of the wicked;
for the figure, BaOO of 1M 8M, is never OIled, only to
express the whole class of the people named; as, the
children of Israel, the whole host of Jacob. 9th verse:
".I1.nd they toem up on 1M brtadIh. of 1M earth; " -
that
is, this army of Gog and Magog were raised up out
of the surface of the earth, that only being the breadth
of a globular body; -
"and compas8ed 1M camp of tM
llaints about, and 1M beltn1ed city;" -
plainly showing
that the New Jerusalem, the beloved city, is on the
earth during the thousand years, or how could this
wicked host encompass it about? they have not climbed
the celestial walls of heaven -
no; for it says, "and
,lire canu! doten.from God out of MIlfJefI and de1JOUred
IMm."
This is the second death, represented under
the fi!!'U1'8 of me coming down from God out of heaven;
not the conflagration of the world, -
for that was in
the commencing of the thousand years, when Christ
came and cleansed the world from all the wicked, and
the works of wicked men,-but the justice of God,
undllr the figure of fire; "for our God is a consuming
fire." Heb. xii. 29.
10th verse: ".Il.nd 1M deuil that
deceived them fD(JIJ cast into 1M lake of .fire and brimstone,
WMre tM beast and./'al8e propMt are, and 8hall be tor-
mented day and nig1iJ. foretJer and ever."
In thiS verse,
the final condemnation of the wicked, soul and body,
is given; and the last that God has seen fit to reveal
concerning them to us is, that they are cast into ever-
lasting torment. In the next verse, John has another
vision of the same things which he had before told US,
only in a different point of view, or some circumstance
not before clearly described. .Il.nd I law always im-
plies a new view, or another vision. 11th verse: ".I1.n4
I BalD /J great wltite throne, and him that Bat on it, from
Digitized by Google

CBBlST'. n:coIQI COMIIfG.
tDMse faa tAe lIeaIIeM and earfA fled away; and Utt:nI
tm.t no plactfound,for ' ••
" Tbls is the IllUDe throne
that Daniel saw, VIi. 9-14: "I beheld till the thrones
were cast down and the Ancient of days did sit, whose
garment W88 white as snow, and the hair of his head
like the pure wool: his throne was like the fiery flame,
and his wheels 88 burning fire."
12th verse: ".8fUJ
I law th.e dwd, M7Ia.ll and great, 8tand bifore God; ana
1M boo'" were opened; aM another book Waif ~
which;' th.e book oj life; and 1M dead were judgtd out
of thole thingl w1&ich toere written in the boo"', aci:ordi71J5
to their tfJUio"'." This is the same 88 Daniel saw, viL
10: "A fiery stream issued and came forth from before
him; thousand thousands ministered unto him, and ten
thousand times ten thousand .tood before him. The
judgment was set, and the books were opened." It is
very evident that this is the beginning of the judgment,
when Christ comes in the clouds of heaven, with power
and great glory, to raise and judge his saints, and to
reward every man as his work shall be. 1st, because
it is when the judgment Jim Bets; 2d, because the book
of life is there, and open; and, 3d, because it was at
the time or before antichri8t was destroyed; and no
one can believe that the antichriBtlan beast can be on
the earth during or in the millennium.
13th verse:
".8nd the _
gave up the dead which toere in it; and
dmJA mid hal tklitlmd up the dead tohich were in u-..
I conclude the apostle, after he had seen the righ~
dead raised, small and great, and stand before Gal,
and saw the book of life open to jnstify them, and saw
them judged and rewarded, he then glides down to the
end of the thousand years, and beheld the wicked dead
given up by those elements and places wherem they
had been confined during the millennisl period, to be
ju~ in the flesh, every man according to his worb.
This only can reconcile BOrne of those con1licting
passages (or seemingly BO to us) concerning the resur-
rection j and 1 cannot Bee any impropriety in thuB under-
standing these prophecies j for it is the common manner
of the prophets, a little here and a little there. In all
the descnptions of the resurrection of the righteolW

LECTVBB U.
dead, they are represented 88 being gathered by the
angels of God, from the four winds of heaven, when the
l18Venth or last trump shall sound; and it is equally 88
evident that their works are brought into judgment.
Although they may not be justified by their works, but
out of the book of life, yet the apostle Paul says, speak-
Ing of his brethren, "We must all stand before the
judgment seat of ChriBt." Rom. xiv. 10. And again,
2 Cor. v. 10, "For we must all stand before the judg-
ment seat of Christ; that every one may receive the
things done in his body, according to that he hath done,
whether it be good or bad." Ami, 1 Cor. iii 13-15,
"Every man's work shall be made ,manifest; for the
day shall declare it, because it shall bt: revealed by
fire; and the fire shall try every man's work, of what
sort it is. If any man's work abide which he hath
built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. If any
man's work shall be burned, he shall suft"er 1088: yet.
he himself shall be saved, so 88 by fire." We see, by
these texts, that the books of every man's works will
be open, as well as 'the book of lifq, in the fust resur-
rection; but, in the second resurrection, there is no
book of life open in that part of the judgment, neither
are they gathered by the angels of God; but the sea,
death, and hell, delivered up the dead which were in
them, and they were judged every man according to
their works; and Satan is the means of gathering them
around the beloved city, where they are judged in the
flesh. By the 6eG, deatA, and MIl, I understand the sea,
grave, and place of punislunent.
The sea and the
grave would give up the dissolved particles of the body,
and hell (or Hades) would- give up their departed
sp rite; this would constitute the second resurrection.
"/lnd t/&eJI tDenl jwlrtetl every _" a«tJrtling to t1w.ir
_b." 'l'bey had cliosen, in this life, to stand on their
works; they liad refused to believe in a Mediator; they
had not followed his commands, neither had they pro
feased his name before men, or suffered persecution
for the sake of his. testimony. They had treated his
word with total neglect, or called his grace tyranDf.
They had said he was a hard master, and buried theil
Digitized by Google

CBRToIITS SECOND COMIl'fG.
talent.in the earth. They had placed their supreme
affections on the world, and made fine gold their trust.
They had persecuted the children of God in this world,
and showed that they were the children of that wicked
one who slew his brother. They had prostituted tJ1eir
bodies to whoredom, and sacrificed to Bacchus and
Venus their tirst-fruite. They had F.Ofeased damna·
ble heresies, and filled the world With their delusive
schemes and sects. They had worshipped the creature,
and neglected prayer to the Creator. They had filled
the world with their lies and abominations, and gloried
in their shame. 14th verse: ".!lnd death Mid hell were
caat into the lake of fire.
Phil iI the aecond death. oj By
death and hell I understand the body and spirit. 15th
verse: ".Ilnd WMBOe/Jer tDaIJ not found written" in the
Lamb'8 book of life, tDaIJ ca8t into tlie lake 'If fire." " But
the fearful and unbelieving, and the abominable, and
murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idol-
aters, and all liars, shall have their part in the lake
which bumeth with fire and brimstone, which is the
secORd death." Rev. xxi. 8.
"Blessed are they that
do his commandments, that they may have right to the
tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the
city. For without are dogs, and sorcerers, and whore.
mongers, and murderers, and idolaters, and whosoever
loveth and maketh a lie," Rev. xxii. 14, 15. Then our
text says, "Blessed and holy iI he t1wJ 1wJh part in the
jir81 7'fJ81Jr7'ection." This we have proved is the resur-
rection of the righteous dead, who died in faith in
Jesus Christ, and 'who should live with him at his
coming; on them the second death should have no
power, "but they shall be' priutB qf God and of CIrrist,
a.nd shall reign with him a t1wusanil years."
To be priests unto God and unto Christ, is to be holy;
to be a kingdom of priests of a peculiar people, that
should show forth his praises by declaring to the uni-
verse that out of nature's darkness they had been re.
deemed by his blood, called by his grace unto his
glorious, happy, and holy kingdom, and that they
Should dwell on the earth. See Rev. v. 9, 10, "And
they sung a new song, saYinr, Thou art worthy to take
Digitized by Google

LBCTUU IL
the book and to open the seals thereof; for thou __
.Blain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood, out
of every kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation;
and haSt made us unto our God kings and priests, and
:we shall reign on the earth." See, also, Rev. i. 6, "And
hath made us kings and priests unto God, and his
Father." Again, 1 Pet. ii. 5, 9, "Ye also, as lively
stones, are built up a spiritual house, a holy priest-
hood." "But ye are a chosen generation, a royal
priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people."
The
passages to which I have cited your minds, prove, be-
yond a reasonable doubt, that the thousand years slY'"
ken of in the text is between the two resurrections' ,
state of happiness, of glory, of holiness, and that it
shall be on the earth. It is a state of immortality, DB
abundant scriptures evidently prove. Where, then, you
may inquire, is the spiritUal millennium which our theo-
rists, in the present age, are ooaching us to expect? 1
answer, There is not a thousand years spoken of in
Scripture, except in 2 Pet., 3d chapter, and in which the
judgment day 18 the subject of discussion, and in the
chapter of whicb our text is a part; and in neither of
these places is any thing said about spiritual reign;
neither can we find any thing in the word of God by
which we could fairly draw the conclusion of sUlili a
reign; and as it is not proper for me to show the neg-
ative, I calion all of you to show where we may find
the evidence, that is, all of you who believe in a
spiritual reign. If there is such a reign, it must be
before the second coming of Christ; for when he comes,
he will receive us to hilDSelf, that where he is there we
lDay be also; no more away from his people, for he
says he will be with them, and make bis abode with
them, and he will be their li~ht, and will dwell with
them, and make his abode With them, and they shall
dwell on the earth. Where, when, or bow the idea of
a spiritual reign of a thousand years should or could
obtain a place in our faith, having the word of God
!IS our mdence, I cannot tell
Some say that the
PJOphets speak often of times or ~
which have not
been fulfilled in our day, or under the present dispensa-
Digitized by Google

•
CJf1I.IsT's nicoND COMING.
tion, and which would be too gross to be admitted into
a state of immortality.
There may be such -
yet I
find no difficulty in understanding all those passages
which have been presented, or come under my con-
sideration, to refer to the gospel day. But how long do
the prophets say that time shall be? Do they designate
any time? No,; neither one, ten, one hundred, or one
thousand years are mentioned in B.hy of those passages.
Why then call it a millennium? Because Peter and
John have mentioned a thousand years.' This cannot
be admitted to mean any state this side of the state of
immortality; for Peter says'plainly, "Yet, nevertheless,
we look for a new heaven and a new earth, wherein
dwelleth righteousness.» This would be a new state,
surely -nothing gross, or vile in this kingdom, whoever
may be king; and John expressly says," They lived and
reigned with Christ a thousand years," Md says, "This
is the first resurrection." Now, admit there is sllch a
time, how or by what rule shall we call it a thousand'
years?
' '
Again, where, in all the prophecies, can anyone show
me that the church will be bles~ed and holy, or happy
and righteous, as it may be ,rendered, until he comes,
that is, at Christ's second appearance? And where in
the word are we to learn that the kingdoms of this world
are to be destroyed before the coming of the Ancient of
dayl' ? Do we believe that the anti-Christian beast, or
mystical Babylon, will be on the earth during this mil-
lennia! reign? No, it cannot be; yet all must acknowl-
edge that she is only destroyed by the brightnes!1 of
his comin;r. Who can read the 19th chapter of Rev-
elation, Without being convinced that the marriage sup-
per of the Lamb, the treadin~ of the wine-press of the
fierceness and wrath of Almighty God, and the supper
of the great God, are events which must take place
before the miJlennium? And if so, who can believe that
after the marriage of the Lamb to the bride; after she
is arrayed in linen clean and white, which is the
righteousness of the saints; after they have received a
crown of righteousness, which the righteous Judge shall
give to all them who love his appearing in that day,-
Digitized by Google

•
LECTtJU II.
Christ will not be with her in person? None. But
our text tells us he will live and reigp with them, and
they shall be priests to God.
Again: while in this state of mortality and trial, we
are called the servants and ministers of Christ; but
then, in the millennial blessedness, we shall be called
priests of God and of ·Christ. You may ask, " Why this
distinction in the language?" I answer, There is a
great difference between the kingdom of Christ, as it
was established when Christ was here on earth, and the
kingdom given up to God, even the Father. The subjects
of Christ's kingdom, in this state of things, may be, and
in fact are, imperfect. Hypocrites and false professors
may and do obtain an entrance iDto it; for an enemy
hath sown tares. But the kingdom of God, no man,
says Christ, can see, or enter, without being bom of
God.
Here they may deceive the sentinels which
guard the kingdom of Christ; but in the kingdom of
God" there shall in no wise enter into it any thing that
detileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination or
maketh a lie; but they which are written in the Lamb's
book of life." Here the children of the kinJldom are
persecuted, tormented, perplexed, cast down; liut in the
kingdom of God their enemies are all slain; they are
comforted, glorified, justified, exalted; and not a dog to
move his tongue. Here they weep, but there will re-
joice: here they Bin and repent; they there will be holy
without fault before his throne. "Blessed and 'holy is
he that hath part in the first resurrection." .8mm.
•
- ,
Digitized by Google

LEOTURE lII.
DANIEL 'fill. 13, 1(.
"Then I beard one saint speaking, and another salDt said unto that
certain saint wbich spUe, How long sball be the vision concern-
ing the daily sacrifice, and tbe transgression of desolation, to
give both the I8OCtoar! and the bost to be trodden under foot f
.t.nd be said uato me, Unto two thousand three bundred days :
then shall the saoctoary be cleansed;" or justified, as it might
have been translated.
THE hearer will, at the first view of our text, perceive
that there is IOmething very important communicated in
the question and answer given j or why are saints com-
miB810ned (as we may reaaonably suppose) from the
courts of heaven, to uk and answer the question con-
tained in the text, in presence of the prophet? And
that it concerned Daniel, and us for whom the prophet
wrote his pro\>hecy, to understand, is evident from the an.
Bwer being gIven to Daniel-" and he said unto me"-
instead of being given to the" Baint," who made the in-
quiry. 'l'hen we are not treading on forbidden Fund,
my dear hearer, to search to understand the meanmg and
truth of our subjecL
I shall then treat our subject in the following manner:
t Explain Borne of the figures and expressions used
in the ten
It Show what the" daily sacrifice vision" is, and,
In The time or length of the vision" unto two thou-
Band three ilundred dayB: then shall the sanctuary be
c1eanaed."
•
t I am to explain some of the figures used in the
tut;and,
Digitized by Google •

LEeTun ilL
1st, the "doily ,acrijice." This may be understood.
by some, to mean the fewish rites and ceremonies; and
by others, the Pagan rites and sacrifices. As boili\Jews
and Pagans had their rites and sacrifices both morning
and evening, and their altars were kept smoking with
their victims of beasts, and their holy fire wu preserved
in their national altars and temples devoted to their sev-
eral deities or gods, we might be at a loss to know which
of these to apply this figurative expression to, did not our
text and context explain the meaning. It is very evi-
dent, when we carefully examine our text, that it is to
be understood u referring to Pagan and Papal rites, for
it stands coupled with "the abomination of desolation,"
and performs the same acts, such as are ucribed to the
Papal abomination, "to give both the sanctuary and
host to be trodden under foot." See, also, Rev. xi. 2,
"But the court which is without the temple leave out,
and meuure it not; for it is given unto the Gentiles;
and the holy city shall they tread under foot forty and
two months." This lut text only has reference to the
Papal beut, 'which wu the image of the Pagan; but the
text in consideration hu reference to both Pagan and
Papal. That is, How long ahall the Pagan transgression
and the Papal trans~ession tread under foot the sanc-
tuary and host? This must be the true and literal mean-
ing of our text; it could not mean the anti-Christian
abomination alone, for they never desolated the Jewish
church; neither could it mean Antiochus, the Syrian
king; for he and his kingdom were made desolate 1LDd
destroyed before Christ; and it is evident that Christ
had an allusion to this' very power, when he told his
disciples, Matt. xxiv. 15, "When ye therefore shall see
the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the
prophet, stand in the holy place." I believe all com-
mentatora agree that Christ meant the Roman power-
ifso, then Daniel has the same meaning; for this is the
very passage to which Christ alluded. Then the " daily
sacrifice" means Pagan rites and sacrifices, and the
transgression of desolation, the Papal; and both together
shall tread under ·foot the "sanctuary and host," which
brings me to show what may be understood by " II8JlC.o
Digitized by Google

CRRISTS SECOND COllDl!fG.
tuaty and hOBt." By 'ancluary, we must understand the
temple at Jerusalem, and thOBe who worship therein,
which was trodden under foot by the Pagan kingdoms
of the world, since the days of Daniel, the writer of
our text; then by the Chaldeans; afterwards by the
Medes and Persians; next by the Grecians; and lastly
by the Romans, who destroyed the city and sanctuary, lev-
elled the temple with the ground, and caused the plough
to pass over the place. The people of the Jews, too,
were led into captivity and persecuted by all these king-
dOIDB successively, and finally br the Romans were ta-
ken away and destroyed as a nation. And as the prophr
et Isaiah, lxiii. 18, says, "The people of thy holiness
have possessed it but a little while: our adversaries have
trodden down thy sanctuary."
Jeremi~ also, in Lam.
i. 10, "The adversary hath spread out his hand upon all
her pleasant things; for she hath seen that the heathen
entered into her sanctuary, whom thou didstcommand that
they should not enter into thy congregation." The word
1&OIt is applied to the people who worship in the outer
court, and fitly represents the Christian church, who are
said to be strangers and pi1~rims on the earth, having no
continuing places, but lookmg for a city whose builder
and maker is God. J eremish, speaking of the gospel
church, says, iii. 19, "But I said, How shall I put thee
among the children, and give thee a pleasant land, a
~dly heritage of the Iwlt of nations?" evidently mean-
Ing the church from the Gentiles. "Then shall the •
sanctuary be cleansed or j1l8tified." means the true sanc-
tuary which God has built of lively stones to his own ac-
ceptance, through Christ, of which the temple at Jeru-
salem was but a type, the shadows having long since
fied away, and that temple and people now destroyed,
and all included in unbelie£ So whosoever looks for
the worldly sanctuary to be built again, will find them-
selves as much mistaken as the unbelieving Jews were,
when they looked for a temporal prince in the Messiah.
For there is not a word in the prophets or apostles, after
Zerubbabel built the second temple, that a third one
would· ever be built; except the one which cometh down
from, heaven, which is a spiritual one. and which is the
Digitized by Google

•
LECTUIl& 111.
mother of us all, (Jew and Gentile,) and which il!J free
and when that New Jerusalem il!J perfected, then shall
we be cleansed and justified j for Paul says to the
Phillippians, iii. 20, 21, "For our conversation is in
heaven; from whence also we look for the Savior, the
Lord Jesus Christ, who shall change our vile body, that
it may be fashioned like unto his ~lorious body, accord-
ing to the workinlt whereby he IS able to subdue all
thin~ to himself;
thl\t is, "they that are hil!J at his
commg." We see by these texts-and mlUly more
might be quoted-that the spiritual sanctuary will not
be cleansed until Christ's second coming; and then.
al! Israel shall be raised, judged, and justified in his
sight.
It We shsll now try to understand what is meant by
the "vi8ion," in the text.
Th£ 'I1iaion, spoken of in the text, a.lludes to three
separate times in which God revea.led unto Daniel a.ll
that may be considered a prophecy in the book of Dan-
iel, which vision was explained to D,!lniel by a heavenly
messenger, called Gabriel, at three separate times, the
last of which closes the book of Daniel; which last
instruction will be the subject of a future lecture.
Daniel's first vision was the dream which Nebuchad-
nezzar had, and which troubled him; but when he
awoke, the dream was gone from him. He then ca.lled
for the IIl/lgicians, astrologers, sorcerers, and Wise men
of Chaldea, to show him his dream, and the interpreta-
tion thereof; but they could not.
The king, being
angry, commanded that all the wise men of Babylon
should be destroyed. Then Arioch, the captain of the
king's guard, went forth to execute the king's decree;
and among the rest he sought for Daniel and his three
friends, young captive Jews, to execute the purpose of
king Nebuchidnezzar upon them also. Daniel then, for
the first time, being made acquainted with the decree,
went in un.to the king, and desired time, and l'romised
that he would make known the dream, and the mterpre-
tation thereof. Time being granted, he and his three
Hebrew friends held a prayer-meeting, (not a cold and
formal one, as we may reasonably- suppose,) for their
• Digitized by Google

CBJUST'S U:COl{D COlll1'l6
bves and the lives of their fellow-creatures were ill
danger. They cried for mercies from the God of heaven.
God heard and answered their prayers, and revealed to
Daniel the dream and interpretation. After rendering
suitable thanksgivinjf, Daniel went in unto the king and
told the dream and vl8ions of the king. " As lor thee, 0
king, thy thoughts came into thy mind upon thy bed,
what should come to pass hereafter; and he that reveal-
cth secrets maketh known to thee what should come to
pass; but as for me, this secret is not revealed to me for
any wisdom that I have more than any living, but for .
the intent that the interpretation may be made known
to the king, and that thou mightest know the thoughts
of thy heart. Thou, 0 king, sawest, and behold, a great
image.
This great image, whose brightness was ex-
cellent, stood before thee, and the form thereof was
terrible. This image's head was of fine gold, his breast
and his arms of silver, his belly and his thighs of brass,
his legs of iron, his feet part of iron and part of clay.
Thou sawest till that a stone was cut out without hands,
which smote the image upon his feet that were of iron
and clay, and brake them to pieces. Then was the iron,
the clay, the brass, the silver, and the gold, broken to
pieces together, and became like the chaff of the sum-
mer.tbieshing-fioors, and the wind carried them away,
that no place was found for them; and the stone that
smote the image became a great m~..
. and filled the
whole earth," Daniel ii 29-35.
- :,;.'
- _
This was the dream, and the interpretation was clear
as given by Daniel; and the history of the world proves
it to be true, a large share havmg already been fulfilled.
All that remains to be accomplished is for the stone to
.mite the image upon his feet, and to become a gJ:llat
mountain, and fill the whole earth. " The head of gold"
represented the Chaldean kingdom; "the breast and
arms of silver" ~presented !be Medes and Persians;
"the belly and th1Khs of brass, which were to bear rule
over all the earth, the Grecian. Alexander, a Grecian
king, conquered the world; the legs of iron, and the feet
~
of iron and part of clay;' fitly represent the Roma~
kingdom, which still exists, although in a broken state.
Digitized by Google

LECTURE III.
like iron and clay. This kingdom hu been divided lJe.
tween Pagan Rome, the head wounded to death, and
Papal Rome, the deadly wound healed, both" mixing
themselves with the seed of II)en," that is, uniting churoh
and state, ecclesiastical and civil, in the government.
The stone denotes Christ, the God of heaven; and the
mountain the kingdom of God. His breaking the image
to pieces, shows that all the kingdoms of this world are
to be utterly destroyed and carried away, so that no
phu:e can be found for them. And the kinadom of God
filling the whole earth teaches us that the beloved city,
the New Jerusalem, will fill the world, and God will
dwell with his people on the earth. Read Dan. ii.:rT-
45. This dream was in the second year of Nebuchad-
nezzar's reign, 603 B. C. Forty-eight years afterwards,
in the first year of Belshazzar's reign and 555 B. C.,
Daniel had another dream, yet the same in substance.
"Daniel spake and said, I saw in my vision by night, and
behold, the four winds of heaven strove upon the great
sea, and four great beasts came up from the sea, diverse
one from another. The first was like a liort, and had ea-
gles' wings; 1 beheld till the wings thereof were plucked,
and it was lifted up from the earth, and made to stand
upon the feet as a man, and a man's heart was given to
it. And behold, another beast, a second, like unto a
bear, and it raised up itself on one side, and it had three
ribs in the mouth of it between the teeth of it; and they
said thus unto it, Arise, devour much flesh. After this 1
beheld, and 10, another like a leopard, which had upon
the back of it four win~ of a fowl; the beast had also
four heads, and domimon was given to it. After this I
saw in the night visions, and behold, a fourth beast,
dreadful, and terrible, and strong exceedingly, and it had
great iron teeth; it devoured and brake in pieces, and
stamped the residue with the feet of it; and it was di-
verse from all the beasts that were before it, and it had
ten horns. I considered the homs, and behold, there
came up among them another little horn, before whom
there were three of the first horns plucked up by the
roots; and behold, in thid horn were eyes like the eyes
of man, and a mouth speaking great things. I beheld
•
Digitized by Google

CBlUSTS BECOND COllUNG.
till the thrones were cut down, and the Ancient of day.
did sit, whose garment was white as snow, and the hait
of his head like the pure wool i his throne was like the
fiery flame, and his wheels as burning fire. A fiery
stream issued and came forth from before him; thousand
thousands ministered unto him, and ten thousand times
ten thousand stood before him: the judgment was set,
and the books were opened
I beheld, then, because of
the voice of the great words which the hom spake. I
beheld, even till the beast was slain, and his body de-
stroyed and given to the burning flame. As concerning
the rest of the beasts, they had their dominion taken
away, ;yet their lives were pt:dlonged for a season and
time. I saw in the night VlSious, and behold, one like
the Son of Man came with the clouds of heaven, and
came to the Ancient of days, and they brought him near
before him. And there was given him dominion and glo-
ry, and a kingdom, that all people, natious, and languages
should serve him i his dominion is an everlasting do-
minion, which shall not pass awaz, and his .kingdom
that which shall not be destroyed,
Daniel vii. 1-14.
This ends Daniel's night vision, except the iustruction
he received from some one standing by. "So he told
mt!, and made me know' the truth of 'lill this,' or the
interpretation of the things. These great beasts, which
are four, are four kings which shall arise out of the
earth. Bllt the saints of the most high shall take the
kingdom, and possess the k~dom forever, even forever
and ever." We see in this lustruction that this vision
and Nebuchadnezzar's dream agree in the most prom-
inent parts i, the four beasts representing the four king-
doms, and the saints possessing the kingdom, the same
as the stone becoming a great mountain and filling the
whole earth i "forever ana ever" shows \18 that it is an
iinmortalstate in everlasting life i "the saints" evidently
-includes all saints," for they shall live and reign with
him on the earth," Revelation v. 10, 20, iv. 6. " Then,"
Daniel says, vii. 19, 20, "I would know the truth or the
fourth beast, which was diverse from all the others,
exeeeding dreadful, whose teeth were of iron, and hill
nails of blUll, which devoured, brake in pieces, and
Dig,tizedbyGoogle ,

LJ: CTUJLE ilL
ltamped the residue with his feet; and of the ten honJll
that were in his head, and of the other which came up,
and before whom three fell, even of that hom that had
eyes, and a mouth that spake very great things, w~ose
look was more stout than his fellows."
In, these verses we learn that the fourth beast would
be diverse from the others. This was true with Rome;
that kingdom first rose from a small colony of adven·
turers settled in Italy. Rome, also, had seven di1ferent
forms of government, while the others had but one.
We leam that this kingdom would devour, break in
pieces, harass and perplex the people of God, whether
Jew or Gentile; that it would be divided into ten king.
doms, and afterwards there would arise another power
which would swallow up three of the ten kingdom&
This was all true with the Roman government. In A. D.
476, the Western Empire fell, and- was divided into ten
kingdoms by the Goths, Huns, and Vandals,-"France,
Britain, Spain, Portugal, Naples, Tuscany, Austria,
Lombardy, Rome, and Ravenna. The three last were
absorbed in the territory of Rome," (E. Irwin,) and be-
came the States of the Church, governed by the Papal
chair, the little hom that had eyes and a mouth that
spake very great things, whose look was more stout than
his fallows. This description cannot apply to any other
power but the church of Rome. "Had eyes," showing
that they made ,pretence at least to be the household
of faith; "eyes meaning faith, and "mouth that spake
very ~at things," showing that the church would claim
infallIbility; "whose look would be more stout than 'his
fellows," showing that he would claim authority over all
other churches, or even the kings, the other horns. See
Itev. xvii. 18: "And the woman which thou sawest is
that r;,reat city which reigneth over the kings of the
earth.
That the little hom is a part of the fourth
kingdom is evident, for it was to come up among the ten
horns which were llpon the head of the beast; and there
cannot be a shadow of a doubt, even in Scripture itself.
but that Rome is meant by this fourth beast; for wha
power but the Roman will answer the description here
and elsewhere given in Daniel? "r beheld, and the
Digitized by Google

CRaIST's SECOND COMING.
Bame hom made war with the saints, and prevailed
against them, ~ntil the Ancient of days came, and judg-
ment was given to the saints of the Most High; and the
time came that the saints possessed the kingdom."
Daniel vii. 21, 22. In these verses we are taught clearly
that anti-Christ will prevail over the church of Christ
until the first resurrection and the first judgment, when
the saints are raised and judged, which utterly destroys
the modem idea of a temporal millennium, a thousand
years before the dead are raised and judged. . This also
agrees with"the whole tenor of Scripture; as, " judgment
must first begin at the house of God," and" whom he
shall destroy with the brightness of his coming;" when
the Ancient of da.ys shall come in the clouds of heaven
with power and great glory,"to give reward to his ser-
vants, the prophets, and them that fear his name, small
and great, and destroy them who destroy the earth,"
descnoed next verse, 23. "Thus he said, The fourth
beast shall be the fourth kingdom upon earth, which
shall be diverse from all'kingdoms, and shall devour the
whole earth, and shall trea.d. it down and break it in
pie.es. And the ten horns out of this kingdom are ten
kings that shall arise; and another shall arise after them,
and he shall be diverse from the first, and he shall sub-
due three kings.
And he shall speak great words
against the Most High, and shall wear out the saints of
the Most High, and think to change times and laws; and
they shall be (pven into his hand until a time and times,
and the dividmg of time. But the Judgment shall sit,
and they shall take away his domiruon to consume and
to destroy it unto the end," 24-26. In these verses
,ve have the history of the fourth beast, or Roman power,
during 1260 years of the close of this kingdom, which 1
shall, in some future lecture, show is the meaning of
time, times, and a half. We have also another clear de-
scription of the Papal power: "He shall speak great
words," &c. -
the blasphemies against God, in the pre-
tensions of the Roman clergy to divine power, work-
ing of miracles, canonizing departed votaries, changing
ordinances and laws of God's house, worshippilll{ saints
and images, and performing rites and ceremorues too
Digitized by Google

LECT171lJ: m.
foolish and ridiculous to be for a moment Indulged in,
and which any unprejudiced mind cannot for a moment
believe to be warranted by divine rule, or example of
Christ or his apostles. And we are again brought down
to the time when the judgment shall sit: "And the
kingdom, and the dominion, and the greatness of the
kingdom under the whole heaven, shall be given to the
people of the Most High, whose kingdom is an everlast-
mg kingdom, (not temporal, as some say, or a thousand
years, but an Immortal and eternal,) and all dominions
shall serve and obey him." It is very evident that this
verse brin!1S us down to the time when the kingdom of
Christ wilf be complete" in the greatness of the king-
dom." Every word in Scriptnre has a meaning, and its
own proper meaning, unless used figuratively, and then
explained by Scripture itself. "Hitherto is the end of
the matter. As for me Daniel, my cogitations muck
troubled me, -and my countenance changed in me; but_
kept the matter in my heart."
This ends Daniel's night vi~ion. Two years after-
wards, in the year 553 before Christ, Daniel vii., he had
another vision in the day-time, at the palace of Shushan,
like the one which we have just described, and Nebu-
chadnezzar's Ilream.
"Then I lifted up mine eyes and saw, and behold,
there stood before the river a ram which had two horns,
and the two horns were high; but one was higher than
the other, and the higher came up last. I saw the ram
pushing westward, and northward, and southward, so that
no beast might stand before him, neither was there any
that could deliver out of his hand; but he did according
to his will, and became g)'6at." In the 20th verse, the
angel Gabriel explains to Daniel what kingdom was rep-
resented by the "ram with two horns," and says, "Thill
ram which thou sawest,havingtwo horns, are the kings \)
Media and Persia."
We see.by this that the Chaldean
kingdom is left out, for the reason that that kingdom was
then crumbling to ruin, and the glory of the Babylonish
ki~~dom h:1.d faded j therefore he now begins his vision
wilD the Mede and Persian kingdom, and that, too, when
at the height of their power and conquests. The higher
Digitized by Google

caars!". 8BCO!Q)COJOl'f&.
hom d~noted the Peman line of kinge, under and folloy·
ing the reign of Cyrus, the Persian, son·in·law to De.riua
the Mede. "And as I was cODSidering, behold, a he·
goat came flom the west, on the face of the whole earth,
and touched not the ground; and the goat had a nota.
ble hom between his eyes." In the 21st verse the an·
gel says, "And the rou~h ·goat is the king of Grecia:
and the great hom that 18 between his eyes is the first
king." This king was Alexander, that conquered the
Persians. He was not the first king of Macedonia, but
the first that had all Grecia under his control, and that
conquered the world. " And he came to the ram that
had two horns, which I had seen standing before the
river, Mld ran untO him in the fury of his power. And
I saw him come close unto the ram, and he was DlGved
with choler against him, and smote the ram, and brake
his two horns; and there was no power in the ram to
stand before him, but he cast him down to the groundl
and stamped upon him, and there was none that cOUld
deliver the ram oilt of his hand. Therefore the he·goat
waxed very great; and when he was strong, the great
horn was broken, and for it came up four notable ones,
towards the four winds of heaven." We have in these
verses a plain description of Alexander's life, conquests,
death, and division of his kingdom into four parts, to.
wards the four points of heaven-Persia in the east, Syria
in the north, Macedon and Europe in the west, Egypt
and Africa in the south. And the angel, when he gives
Daniel instruction, says, 22d verse, "Now that being
broken, whereas four stood up for it, four kingdoms shall
stand up out of the nation, but not in his power." Then
the vision seems to slide down to the little horn. " And
out of one of them (that is,out of Europe) came forth a lit.
tle horn, which waxed exceeiling great, toward the south,
and towll1'd the east, and tnward the pleasant land. And
it waxed great even to the host of heaven; and it cast
down BOlDe of the host and of the stars to the ground,
and stamped upon them. Yea, he magnified hiD18elf •
even to the prince of the host, and by him the daily sac·
rifice was taken away, and the place of his sanctuary
was .cast down, and a host WIIB given him against the

•
LECTUU m.
daily IIIlCriflee by reuon of trans~88ion, and it cut
down the truth to the ground, and It practieed and pr0s-
pered."
Two or three things in the above deacription
clearly show that, by the little hom, in this pa888ge, we
are to understsnd the Roman power, viz., Its conCJ.uering
to the south, and east, and pleasant lands, stampmg oq
the host, magnifying himself against Christ, and destroy-
in~ Jerusalem, the place of his sanctuary, and his prac-
tismg and prospering. All this description agrees with
the history of Rome, and cannot apply to Antiochus, 81
some writers have supposed. But let liS see what Ga-
briel says, 23: "And in the latter time of their kingdom,
(that is, the four kingdoms,) when the transgreaaors are
come to the ful~ a king of fierce countenance, and under-
standing dark sentences, shall stand up, and his power
shall be mighty, but not by his own power; and he shall
destroy wonderfully, and shall prosper and practiee,
and shall destroy the mighty and the holy people. And
through his policy, a18O, he shall cause craft to prosper in
his hand; and he shall magnify himself in his heart, and
by peace shall destroy many; he shall also stand up
against the Prince of princes; but he shall be broken
without hand. And the vision of the evening (in the first
year of Belshazzar, Daniel vii.) and the mormng (in the
third year of Belshazzar, Daniel viii.) which w~ told, is
true; wherefore shut thou up the Vision, for it shall be
for many days." How many days? Our tellt answers,
"Unto two thousand three hundred days; then shall the
sanctuary be cleansed. And it came to pass, when r,
even I, Danie~ had seen the visiOIi, and BOught for the
meaning, then, behold, there stood before me 81 the ap-
pearance of a man. Ancii heard a man's voice between
the banks of mai, which called and said, Gabriel,- make
this man to understand the vision. So he came near
where 1 stood, and when he came, I was afraid, and fell
upon my face; but he said unto me, Understand, 0 son
of man, for at the time of the end shall be the vision.
Now, os he was speaking with me, I was in a deep sleep
on my face toward the ground; but he touched me, and
set me upright. And he said, behold, I will make thee
know what shall be in the last end of the indignation;
for at the time appointed the end shall be."
Digitized by Google

CBRIST'S BaCON» COIONG.
5]
Then comes the inatruction of Gabriel, which we have
before given.
IlL 7'M time or length oJIM vision-the 2,300 days.
What must we understand by daJiB' In the prophecy
of Daniel it is invariably to be reckoned years; for God
hath so ordered the prophets to reckon days. Numb.
xiv. 34, "After the number of days in which ye searched
the land, even forty days, each day for a year, shall you
bear your iniquities, even forty years." Ezek. iv. 5, 6," For
I have laid upon thee the years of their iniquity, accord-
ing to the number of the days, three hundred and ninety
days; so sl1alt thou bear the iniquity of the house of Is-
raeL And when thou hast accompliahed them, lie again
on thy right side, and thou shalt bear the iniquity of the
house of Judah forty days; I have appointed thee each
day for a year." In these passages we prove. the com-
mand of God. We will also show that It was so called
in the days of Jacob, when he served for Rachel, Gen •.
xxix. Z1: "Fulfil her week (seven days) and we will give
thee thia also, for the service which thou shalt serve with
me yet other BOven yeare.."
Nothing now remains to make it certain that our vis-
ion ia to be so understood, but to prove that Daniel has
followed this rule. This we will do, if your patience
will hold out, and God permit.
NoW' turn your attention to the ninth chapter of Dan-
iel, and yClb will there learn that fifteen years after Dan-
iel had his last vision, and lIixty-five years after Daniel
explained Nebuchadnezzar'1I dream, and 538 years B. C.,
Daniel BOt his face unto the Lord God by lIupplication and
prayer; and by coRfellllion of his own sins, and the sins
of .the people of Israel, he sought God for mercy, for him-
self and all Israel. And while he was llpeaking and
praying, as he tells us, Daniel ix. 2], " Yea, while I was
speaking in prayer, even the man Gabriel, whom I had
BOen in 1M Mon at the beginning, Daniel viii. ]6, 17,
being caused to fly IIwiftly, touched me'llbout the time
of the evening oblation. And he informed me and tolked
with me, alld said, 0 Daniel, 1 am now come forth to give
thee skill and understanding. At the beginning of thy
tupplicatlon the commandment came forth, and I am
Digitized by Google

"",
LEeTV .. III.
come to .t.., thee ; for thou art greatly beloved; there-
fore undentand the matter, ana consider u.e tMion.
BeYenty weeks are determined upon thy people, and
upon thy holy cit)', to finish the uansgretl8ion, and to
make an end of SlJ18, and to make reconciliation for ini-
• quity, and to bring in everlasting righteousneas, and to
seal up U.e Nion and prophecy, and to anoint. the Moat
Holy. Know, therefore, and understand, that from the
going forth 'of the commandment to restore and build
Jerusalem unto the Messiah, the Prince, shall be seven
weeks, and threescore and two weeks; the street shall
be built again, and the wall, even in troublous times.
And after threescore and two weeks shall Messiah be
cut off, but not for himself; and the people of the Prince
that shall com. shall destroy the city and the sanctuary;
and the end thereof ahall be with a flood, and unto the
end of the war desolations are determined. And he shall
confirm the covenllllt with many for one week; and in
the midst of the week, (or last half, as it might have
been rendered,) he shall cause the sacrifice and the ob-
1ation to cease, and for the overspreading of abomination,
he ahall make it desolate, even until the consummation,
and that determined shall be poured upon the desolate."
. What do we learn from the above paBII8g8? We
learn our duty in prayer, and God's goodness in an-
swering. We Jearn that the angel Gabriel was sent to
instruct Daniel, and make bini understand •
tMimI.
You mar inquire what vision? I answer, The one Dan-
iel had m ths beginning, for he has had no other. We
also learn that seventy weeks, which is 490 days, (or
:years, as we shall show,)from the going forthofa certain
decree to build the streets and walls of Jerusalem in
troublous times, to the crucifixion of the Messiah should
be accom).llished.
We also learn that. this seventy
weeks is dIvided into three parts; seven weeks being
employed in building the streets and walls in troublous
times, which is forty-nine years, sixty-two .weeks, or
four hundred and thirty-four years to the preaching of
John in the wilderness, which two'lut together, make
sixty-nine weeks, or four hundre and eighty-three
years, and one week the gospel was preached; Jolla
Digitized by Google

CBRlST'S SECOl'Q) COMllfG.
three and a half years, and Christ three and a half
years, which makes the seventy weeks, or four hundred
and ninAtr years; which, when accomplished, would seal
up the vlSion, atd make the prophecy true. We also
learn that, after the crucifixion of Christ, the Romans
would come and destroy the city and sanctuary, and
that wars will not cease until the consummation -or end
of the world. "All that may be true," says the objector;
"but where have you proved that the seventy weeks
were four hundred and ninety years?" I agree I have
not yet proved it, but will now do it.
We shall a!{llin turn your attention to the Bible.
Look at Ezra Vll. 11-13': "Now 'this is the copy of the
letter that the king, Artaxerxes, gave ullto Ezrtt.. the
priest, the scribe, a scribe of the law of God: perfect
peace, and at such a time. I make a decree that all they
of the people of Israel, and of his priests and Levites
in my realm, which are minded of their own free will
to go up to 1 erusalem, go with thee." This is the
decree given when the walls of 1enlSalem were built in
troublous times. See, also, Neb. iv.17-23. Ezra and
Nehemiah being contemporary, see Neb. viii. 1. The
decree to Ezra was given in the seventh year or Ar-
taxerxes' reign, Ezra vii. 7, and that to Nehemiah in the
twentieth year, Neb. ii. 1, Let anyone examine the
chronology, as given by Rollin or 10sephus, from the
seventh year of Artaxerxes to the twenty-second year
of Tiberius ClIlsar, which was the year our J;.ord
was crucified, and he will find it was four, -hun-
dred and ninety years. The Bible chronology'''says-,-
that Ezra started to go up to Jerusalem on the-12tl't'
day of the first month, (see Ezra viii. 31,) 457 years
before the birth of Christ; he being 33 when he died,
added to 457, will make 490 years.
Three of the
evangelists tell us he was betrayed two days before the
feast of the passover, and of course was the same day
crucified. The passover was always kept on the 14th
day of the firSt month forever, and Christ being crucified
two days before, would make it on the 12th day, 490
years from the time Ezra left the river Aha.va to go
unto 1 erusalem. '5-
Digitized by Google

LECTURE III.
If this calculation is correct, -
and I think no ona
can doubt i~ -
then the seventy weeks was fulfilled to a
day when our Savior suffered on the cross. Is not the
seventy weeks fairly proved to have Jvlen fulfilled by
'years? , And does not this prove that our vision and the
2300 days ought to be so reckoned? Yes, if these seventy
weeks are a part of the vision. Does not the angel say
plainly, I have come to show thee j. therefore understand
the matter, and consider the vision? Yes. Well, what
can a man ask for more than plain positive testimony,
and a cloud of circumstances agreeing with it?
But one thing still remains to be proved. When did
the 2300 ye'ars begin? Did it begin with Nebuchad-
nezzar's~? No. For if it had, it must have been
fulfilled in the year A. D. 1697. Well, then, did it be-
¢n when the angel Gabriel came to instruct Daniel
mto the 70 weeks? No, for if then, it would have
been finished in the year A. D. 1762. Let us begin it
where the angel told us, from the going forth of the
decree to build the walls of Jerusalem in troublous
times, 457 years before Christ j take 457 from 2300, and
it will leave A. D. 1843; or take 70 weeks of years,
being 490 years, from 2300 years, and it will leave 1810
after Christ's death. Add his life, (because we begtn
to reckon our time at his birth,) which is 33 years, and
we come to the same A. D. 1843-
Now let us examine our subject, and see' what we
have learned by it thus~. And,
L We learn that there are two abominations spoken
of by Daniel. The first is the Pagan mode of worship,
which was performed by the sacrificing of beasts upon
alta,rs, similar to the Jewish rites, and by which means
the nations around Jerusalem drew away many of the
Jews into idolatry, and brought down the heavy judg-
ments of God upon idolatrous Israel j and God permit-
ted his people to be led into captivity, and persecuted by
the very nations that they, the Jews, had been so tond of
copying after in their mode of worship. Therefore were
the sanctuary and place of worship at Jerusalem trod-
den down by Pagan worshippers; and the altars, erected
by tile command of God, and according to the pattem
Digitized by Google

(lBRIST'S SECOND COJlONG.
and form which God had prescribed, were broken down
and more fashionable altars of the heathen erected in
their room.
Thus were the commands of God diso-
beyed, his laws perverted, his people enslaved, the
sanctuary trodden down, and the temple polluted, until
at last God took away the Jewish rites and ceremonies,
instituted new forms, new laws, and set up the gosp~l
kingdom in the world.
' :
This, for a season, was kept pure from the worldly
sanctuaries and policy of Satan. But Satan, an arch
enemy, found his Pagan abominations could have but
little or no effect to draw the followem of Christ into
idolatry, for they believed the bloody rites and sac-
rifices had their fulfilment in Christ.
Therefore, in
order to carry the war into the Christian camp, he suffem
the daily sacrifiee abomination to be taken out of the
way, and sets up Papacy, which is more congenial to
the Christian mode of worBhip in its outside forms and
ceremonies, but retaining all the hateful qualities of
the former. He pemuades them to erect images to
some or all of the dear apostles; and even to Christ,
and Mary, the" Mother of God." He then llattem them
that the church is infallible. (Here was a strong cord
by which he could punish all disputem.) He likewise
frlves them the keys of heaven, (or Peter, as they call
It.) This will secure all authority. He then clothes
them with power to make laws, and to dispense with
those which God had made. This capped the climax.
In this he would fasten many thousands who might
protest against some of his more vile abominations; yet
habit and custom might secure them to a willing obe-
dience to his laws, and to a total neglect of the laws of
God. This was Satan's masterpiece; and, as Daniel says,
" he would think to change times and laws, and they should
be given into his hand for a time, times, and a half; but
they shall take away his dglllinion to consutne and de-
stroy it unto the end." Therefore, when this last abom-
ination of desolation shall be taken away, then shall the
sanctuary be cleansed.
II. We learn that the vision" which Daniel saw was
revealed at three separate times -1st. In N ebuchad-
Digitized by Google

[lEe Tun III.
nezzar's dream, which carried 1111 down through fom
great kingdoms, until they should all be sw~pt away
like the chair of the summer threshing-lloor before the
wind, and no place found for them, and the glorious and
everlasting kingdom of Christ fill the whole earth. The
n~xt vision Daniel saw was similar to this; he saw four
great beasts, representin~ four great kingdoms, as before
and he saw the fourth Deast to be diverse from all the
others, dreadful and terrible, and exceedingly strong;
he had great iron teeth, and nails of brass, which de-
voured,. brake in pieces, and stamped the people of God
and the whole earth under foot. This beast contained
the two abominations which we have before spoken of;
the last, under the figure of a little horn, he saw until all
these thrones were cast down, till the little hom was
destroyed, and his body given to the burning llame.
Daniel saw until the Ancient of days did sit. The Son
of Man came in the clouds of heaven, and came to the
Ancient of days. He saw thousand thousands minis-
tering unto him, and ten thousand times ten thousand
stood before him; the judgment was set, and the books
were opened. He saw the dominion, and glory, and king-
dom given to the Son of Man, and to the people of the ,
saints of the Most High, whose kingdom 18 an everlast-
ing kingdom.
In the third vision, which Daniel has
coupled with the former, by saying that it was after (or
like) the one which appeared unto him at the first, he
saw the three last kingdoms; gave a particular description
of the two first, even naming them - the Medea and
Persians, and the Grecian. He then gives a short
account of the little horn, (having given a more general
view of the fourth kingdom in the other vision,) how he
would cast down the host of aeaven, and the stars, and
stamp upon them; also that lie would magnify himself
against the Prince of the host, 1 esus Christ, and cast
down the place of his sanctuary, and practise and
prosper, but shall be broken without hands, showing
that the stone cut out without hand should break him to
pieces.
Daniel, then, in the 26th verse, couples the
two visions, the one in the evening, 7th chapter, and
the one in the morning, 8th cha~r!.. and says, "Tile
Digitized by Google

,,'~
CHRIST'S BECOND CQIIIIN&.
mon of the evening and morning, which 1flI8 told, is
true."
III. We learn that this vision is two thousand three
hundred days long j that days are to be reckoned years
-1st, By the command of God j 2d, By the example of
Jacob; and 3d, By the fulfilment of the seventy weeks
of this vision, at the crucifixion of the Messiah. We
Jearn by the instruction of Gabriel that the seventy
weeks were a part of 1M 1Iiaion, and that Daniel was
commanded to begin the seventy weeks at the going
forth of the decree, to build the streets and walls of
lerusalem in troublous times j that this decree, given' to
Ezra, was exactly 490 years, to a day, before the cruci-
fiXion of Christ j and that there is no account, by Bible
or an1. historian, that there was ever any other decree
to build the streets or walls of Jerusalem~ We think
the proof is strong, that tile tMion of Daniel begins 457
years before Christ; take which from'23OO, leaves 1843,
after Christ, when 1M tMion must be finished. But the
objector may say, "Perhaps your vision does not begin
with the seventy weeks."
Let me IlI!k two or three
lIneations. Does not the angel say to Daniel, ix. 23,
"Therefore understand the matter, and consider 1M vis-
. ion"? "Yes." Does not the angel then go on and give
his instruction concerning the seventy weeks? "Yes."
Do you believe the Bible is true? "We do." Then if
the Bible is true, Daniel's 70 weeks are a part of 1M
tMion, and 490 years were accomplished when the
Mesiah WI\S cut off, and not for himsel£ Then 1810
years afterwards 1M tMion is completed j and we now
live about 1803 years after; of course it must have
begun within seven years of that date. But it is very
reasonable to suppose it began with the seventy weeks j
for the angel said it would establish 1M vision, that is,
make it sure; for if the 70 weeks were exactly fulfilled
at the death of Christ, then would the remainder be in
1810 years after, which would be fulfilled A. D. 1843,
as we have before shown.
And now, my dear hearer, are you prepared for this
~t and important event? Are you ready for the
Judgment to set, and the books to be opened? Let this
Digitized by Googie

L&CT11T&. UL
mbject link deep into your hearts; let it follow yoo to
your bed-charnbel'8, to your fields, or your shops. Not
one jot or tittle of the word of God shall fail If he
has spoken, it will come, however inconsistent it may
look to U& Be admonished, then, and see to it that you
are prepared. Compare 1M viIitm with the history of
the kingdom. and where can fOU find a failure? Not
one. 'Pben, surely, here is eVidence strong that the re-
mainder will be accomplished in its time, and that time
but seven Ye&l'll. Think, sinner, how good God is to
give you notice, and prove it a thousand fold. Remem-
ber the old world; they thought Noah was a maniac;
but the ll00d came, and they were reserved in chains
of darknees unto the judgment of the great day. Re-
member the cities of the plain; Lot was unto them
like one that mocked; but the same day God rained fire
B;Dd brimstone upon them, and they are auffering the
vengeance of eternal fire. Be warned, then i lIy to the
ark, Christ Jesus, before the door is abut; escape to the
mountain of the house of the Lord before the Lord
ahaIl rise up to the prey, and you be driven away in
your wickedneaa. .8men.
Digitized by Google

LECTURE IV.
DANIEL Ix. 1M.
Seventy weeks are detennined upon thy people, and upon thy
boly city, to finisb the transgression, and to make an end of
sins, and to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in
everlasting righteousness, and to seal up ilie visiou. and prophe-
cy, and to anoint the Alost Holy.
OUR text is one of the many found in the word of
God, which prove the authenticity of the Scriptures,
gives us a powerful weapon against Judaizing teachers,
and meets the infidel on his own ground -the history of
the world.
It sets a seal to prophecy that it is true, and shows
that the prophets were inspired.
It gives incontestable evidence against the Jew, and
proves that Jesus of Nazareth was the true Messiah.
It unlocks the wonderful vision of Daniel's four king-
doms; also the vision of the ram,. the he-goat, and the
little horn.
It brings to view the great blessings of the sacrifice
of Jesus Christ, re\teals the exact time of its accom-
plishment, . and shows the source of the p'pel, pro-
claiming good news to lost man, eveD in anticipation of
that imJ;X?rtant era when the Gentiles should be fellow-
heirs With the Jews in faith.
It establishes the wavering, and gives hope and con-
fidence to the tried and tempted child of God, that he
will fulfil all his promises, according to the letter and
spirit of his word.
- This text furnished Simeon, Anna, Nathaniel, and
.-.
Digitized by Google

LECTAE IV.
others, with a strong faith that they should see the con
solation of IsraeL
By this text the high priest convinced the council
of the necessity of putting to death JesUS. " Then
gathered the chief priests and Pharisees a council,
and said, What do we jI for this man doth manf mira-
cles. If we let him thus alone, all men will beheve on
him; and the Romans will come, and take away both
our place and nation."
" And one of them, named Caiaphas, being high priest
that same year, said unto them, Ye know nothing at all,
nor consider that it is expedient for us that one man
should die for the people, and that the whole nation per-
ish not. And this spake he not of himself, (not his own
prophecy;) but, being high priest that year, he prophe-
sied (from Daniel's seventy weeks; for there is not
another prophecy in the Old Testament which shows
what year Christ should suffer) that Jesus should die
for that nation; and not for that nation only, but that,
also, he should gather together in one the children of
God, that were scattered abroad," John xi. 47-53.
The high priest argues that Jesus must die for the
people.
The seventy weeks shows that the Messiah must be
cut off at the close of the last week, and not for himself.
Also Peter had occasion to say in his epistle," Of which
salvation the prophets have inquired and searched dili-
gently, who prophesied of the grace that should come
unto you, searching what, or what manner of time, the
spirit of Christ, which was in them, did signify, lfhen it
testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ and the
.glory that should follow," 1 Peter i. 10, 11.
Where was the exact time of Christ's sufferings
prophesied of but in Daniel's seventy weeks? Again,
to this Christ alludes when he says," My time is not yet
fully come;" and," Then they sought to take him, but
no man laid hands on him, because his hour was not yet
come:" that is, the seventy weeks were not yet ful-
filled, John vii. 8, 30. Mark tells us, xiv. 41, "The
110ur is come; behold, the Son of Man is betrayed
mto the hands of linners."
Dig,tizedbyGoogle -

CHRIS,!,'S BECOn COMING.
The seventy' weeks were now being fulftned. And
then, at last, when Jesus had completed his work, when
the fulness of time had come, he finished transgreSlIlOD,
and made an end of sin: he then cried," It is finished,
and gave up the ghost." The seventy weeks ended, our
text was fulfilled; Christ had now become the end of
the law for righteousness, to every one that believeth;
he that knew no sin had become sin for us, and Death
bad strllC~ his IllBt blow that he would ever be able to
give the Son of God.
Daniel's vision is now made
sure -
the Messiah cut off, the time proved true, as wven
by the prophet Daniel.
Now, ye infidels, can this be priestcraft? And, ye
Judaizing teachers, is not this the Christ? Why look
ye for another?
I shall now take up the text in the following manner:
I. I Rhall show what is to be done in seventy weekFl.
TI. When the seventy weeks began, and when they
ended.
.
I. The text tells us," Sevmly !uew are determined
upon thy people (m.d 'Upon thy ho1y. city;" that is, upon
the Jews; who then were the pe9ple of Daniel, and also
in Jerusalem, which then was called the "holy city."
The first question which would naturally arJse on the
mind, would be, What for to do? The text and ita con-
text must tell us.
1st. "To ,fini8A tile trcm8greBBion." When was trans-
gression fimshed? I 8JlSwer, At the death of Christ.
See Heb. ix. 15, "And for this cause he is the Mediator
of the new testament, that br means of deat1r., for the
redemption of the transgressions that were under the
first testament, they which are called might receive the
promise of eternal inheritance." Isaiah liii. 8, "}'or he
was cut off out of the land of the living; . for the trans-
gression of my people was he stricken."
2d. ".!lnd to make an end qf Bins."
This was also
perfonned at his death. See Heb. ix. 26, "But now
once in the end of the world hath he appeared, to put
away sin by the sacrifice of himsel£" And l' John iii.
5," Ye know that he (Christ) was manifested to take
away our sins."
Digitized by Google

LI:CTUU .".
3d. ""w 10 -a reeonciliatiol& for iniquily." Was
this also performed at his death 1 Yes. See CoL i.
20, "And having made peace through the blood of his
eross, by him to reconcile all things to himael£" Heb.
ii. 17, " Wherefore in all things it behooved him to be
made like unto his brethren; that he might be a mer-
ciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God,
to make reconciliation for the sins of the people."
4th. ".I1nd to bring in eIIUlaIting righltoutmU,."
"This must be by Christ's obedience," says the objector,
"and cannot be at his death." Not 80 fast, dear sir; let us
bear the testimony. Romans v. 21, "That 8S sin hath
reigned unto death, even 80 might grace reign through
righteousness unto eternal life, by Jesus Christ our
Lord." And," By the obedience of one IIbalI many be
made righteous." Again, see Phil. ii 8, "And being
found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and be-
came obedient unto death, even the death of the cross."
Paul says, ".I do not frustrate the grace of God; for if
righteousness came by the law, then Christ is dead in
vain;" evidently showing, that by Christ's obedience
unto death, he brought in everlasting righteousness.
5th. "To /leal up the t1iaion and prophecy."
What
.toes "to seal up " mean? I answer, It means to make
lUre, certaln, unalterable.
Consult Esther iii. 12, viii.
8. Solomon says, "Set me as a ,eal upon thine heart,
as a leal upon thine arm;" that is, make me 81U'e in
thy love, and certain by thy power. John says," He
that hath received his testimony hath set to his leal that
God is true." John iii. 33. Paul to Rome, xv. 28,
" When I have performed this, and ,ealed to them this
fruit;" that is, made lUre the contributions. Again,
to Timothy, 2 Epistle, ii:"19, "Nevertheless, the founda-
tion of God standeth aure, baving this /leal, The f..ord
kno)Veth them that are his." Therefore the death of
Christ would make Daniel's vision sure; for if a part of
the vision should be exactly fulfilled, as to time and
manner, then the remainder of the vision would be. ac-
coinplished in manner and time, as literally as the
seventy weeks had been.
6th. ".ibid anoint the Moat Holy." The Most Holy,
Digitized by Google

CBJUST'S SECOlm COIlUl'l'6.
in this passage, must mean Christ i for no human being
can, or ought to claim this appellation, save him whom
God hath anointed to be a Savior in Israel, and a King
in Zion. See Acts x. 38, "How God anointed Jesus
of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power."
Also, Acts iv. 27, "For of a truth against thy holy child
Jesus, whom thou hast anointed, both Herod and' Pon-
tius Pilate, with the Gentiles, and the people of Israel,
were gathered together, for to do whatsoever tbt
hand and thy counsel determined before to be done.
Heb. i. 9, "Therefore God, even thy God, hath M&Ointed
thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows."
It will next be requisite to inquire, When was Christ
anointed?
I answer, When the Holy Ghost descended upon him,
and when he was endued with power from on high to
work miracles. See Isa. lxi 1, "The Spirit of the Lord
God is upon me i because the Lord hath anointed me to
preach good tidings unto the meek: he hath sent me to
bind up the broken-hearted, to proclaim liberty to the
captivea, and the opening of the prison to them that are
bOUDd."
After Christ was baptized by John, and after bein.l.
tempted of the devil forty days in the wilderness, •
went in the spirit into Galilee, and on the Sabbath day
he went into the synagogue, as his custom was, and he
stood up to read. They gave him the book of Isaiah.
When he opened the book he found the passago which
I have just quoted. After reading it he shut up the
book and sat down. He then began to say unto them,
" This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears," Luke
iv. 1-21. This passage plainly proves that Christ was
anointed on or before this day.
Other things were to be done in the seventy weeks,
such as, The cutting otl' of the Messiah, but not for.
himself. This can mean nothing less than the cruci-
fixion of Christ. See Luke xxiv. 26, 46, "Ought not
Christ to have sutl'ered these things, and to enter into
his ~It>ry?" "Thus it is written, and thus it behooved
Christ to sutrer, and to rise from the dead the third day."
Rom. v. 6, "For when we were without strength, in due
Digitized by Google

,
LECTUU IV.
time (or accordiDg to the time of I18venty weeka) Chnst
died tor u&"
.
"And he (Messiah) shall confirm the covenant with
many for one week." What covenant is this to be con-
firmed? I answer, It cannot be the Jewish covenant,
for that was confirmed by Moses many hu.ndred years
before Daniel lived. There being but two covenants,
it must of necessity be the new covenant of which
Christ is the Mediator; Moses having been dle media-
tor of the old, and Christ afterwards of the DeW. If
these things are so, and the gospel -covenant is meant
by Daniel, then the time the gospel was ~ached by
John and Christ is here called a week; for Christ him-
self preached more than seven days. Christ kept three
passovers with the Jews after he began his ministry,
and Defore he nailed the ceremonial law to his croea.
This is strong evidence that a week is seven years, and
that Daniel's 70 weeks are to be understood as meaning
400.years.
.
Again, "In the midst of the week he should cause
the sacrifice and oblation to cease," or, as all Hebrew
scholars agree," In the last half of the week," &C., is
the more proper translation; and it is evident that this
~lation would harmonize with the other parts of the
passage, " the sacrifice and oblation to cease."
What sacrifice and offering is this, which the Messiah
was to cause to cease? I answer, It must of course be
that one offering and sacrifice for sin of which all other
offerings and sacrifices were but types. It could not
be the Jewish sacrifices and offerings, for two good
reasons.
1st. This is but one sacrifice, and the Jews had many.
It does not say sacrifices; therefore it cannot mean
Jewish sacrifioes, nor offerings.
2d reason. The Jewish sacrifices and offerings did not
cease il},' nor even·very nigh, the last half of the week
in which the Messiah confirmed the covenant with many;
and, even to the present day. they make oblations, if not
sacrifices.
It must mean that sacrifice and oblation
which the Messiah was to make to God for sin, once for
all It must mean that sacrifice which is the antetype
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S BECOND COIllllNG.
of all the le2Bl sacrifices from the days of Abel to the
days of.the Mes~iah. Let us hear what Paulliays,Heb.
vii. Z'l, " Who needeth not daily, as those high priests,
to offer up sacrifice, first for his own sins, and then for
the people's j for this he did once when he offered up
himself."
-
See also Heb. x. 11, 12. "And every priest standeth
daily ministering, and offering oftentimes the same sacri-
fices, which can never take away sins; but this man,
after he had offered one sacrifice for sins, forever sat
down on the right hand of God." Many more passages
might be- brought to show that all sacrifices and obla-
tions which coUld take away sin, or in which God the
Father could be well plessed, ceased in Christ's one
sacrifice and oblation. But I have given enough to sat-
isfy etery candid, unprejudiced mind; therefore I shall,
II. ,'Try to prove when the seventy weeks began, and
when'theyended.
The angel Gabriel tells Daniel, ix. 25, "Know, there-
fore, and understand, that, from the ~g forth of the
cOlDIJl!LndIDent to restore and to bUild Jerusalem, unto
the Messiah, the Prince, shall be seven weeks, and three-
score and two w~ks; the stre~t shall be built again,
and the wall, even 10 troublous times.'"
•
In this passage we have a plain declaration when the
seventy weeks began: "from the going forth of the
commandment."
But what commandment? we may
inquire. I answer, A command that will finally restore
the Jews from their captivity under which they then
were held in bondage; also to prepare tke way for them
to rebuild their city, repeople the same, and raise up
the decayed walls, settle the streets, and cleanse the
city of Jel'Wlalem; and these things would be done in
troublous times. So much is expressed or implied in
the declaration of Gabriel, which I have just quoted.
Who would give the command? is the next question.
J answer, It must be a king who had power over the
Jews to release and resto~ them. It must of necessity
be a king over the Medes and Pemians, or it would not
be in agreement with the vision in the 8th chapter of
Daniel; for he is expressly told by Gabriel that the raIl!
6-
.'
Digitized by Google

LEC'l'UU IV.
he saw, and which W88 the first thinIr be did see in the
VISIOn, were the kings of Media and "Persia. A,nd now
this same angel Gabriel has come the, second time, and
tells Daniel, plainly and distinctly, that he has come to
make him " understand the vision." What vision? The
one Daniel had in the beginning, in the 8th chapter.
See Daniel ix. 21-23.
Then Gabriel begins his instructions by giving him
seventy weeks of the vision, and then shows him, verse
24, when his seventy weeks begin; or, which is the
same thing, " the viaion." To read and understand the
matter thus far; infidelity itself must blush to deny thE:
premises.
-
Then, if we have settled this question, the next ques
tion would be, Which king of Persia, and what com·
mandment? I answer, It must be the fifth king of Persia
noted in the Scripture of truth; for the angel Gabriel,
the third time he visited Daniel to give him skill and
understanding into" fh 'I1iaion," sars, "But I will show
thee that which is noted in the scnpture of truth," Dan.
x. 21. -This sho}VII that he was instructing Daniel into
a vision which he before had seen, and written in the
Scriptures; See Dan. vii 1, "Then he wrote the
ham, and told the sum of ilie matters.'? Dan. x. 14,
" Now I am come to make thee unde~d what shall
befall thy people in the latter days; for yet the viaion is
for many days." What vision? The one noted in the
Scripture of truth, sa~s Gabriel. Then, in Dan. xi. 2,
he "egins his instruction to him of the viaion, which he
was commatlded by the voice between the banks of Ulai
to make him understand, by saying, "And now will I
show thee the truth. Behold, there shall stand up yet
three kings in Persia; and the fourth shall be far richer
than they all."
This fourth king was the ram pnshing,
and was the fifth king of Persia, being the fourth from
Cyrus, who was then standing up. See Dan. x. 1.
, The kings, as Ezra has named them in his 4th chap-
ter and 7th chapter, were, 1st, Cyrus; 2d, Ahasuerus;
3d, Ai'taXerxes, (the first;) 4th, Darins; 5th, Artaxerxes
(Longimanus;) -this last being the king who gave a com-
mandment to Ezra to restore all the captive Jews who
were willing to go to Jerusalem.
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECOND COlON&.
What commandment? is our next question to answer.
The decree given by Cyrus (see Ezra i. ]-11) cannot
be the decree meant by the angel, for \he four following
reasODS:-
1st. Cyrus was the first king of Persia, and of cOurse
cannot be the fifth king, as we have already shown.
2d reason. The decree of Cyrus was two years be·
fore the angel gave his last instruction to Daniel, and
he would not have spoken of it as being future, if it had
already passed: "There shall yet stand up three kings,"
&c.
•
3d reason. Cyrus's decree was not given to build
Jerusalem, but" the house of God which was at Jerusa-
lem ;" neither WElle the walls built in troublous times,
under the ~ecree by Cyrus.
4th reason. This decree by Cyrus was given 536
years before the birth of Christ, or 569 years Defore his
death. Therefore no rules of interpretation given in
the Scriptures could possibly show how those thin~
were accomplished in seventy weeks, which Gabnel
has shown, in our text and context, were determined to
be done. This, then, cannot be the commandment, and
harmonize with either Bible or facts.
Again: the decre:nI!'en by Darius, Ezra vi. 1-14,
cannot be the comm
ent to which the angel alluded,
for the same reasons we have shown that Cyrus's decree
could not be the one; for this was only a renewal of the
former, and this decree was issued 552 years before
Christ's death.
The next decree or command of any king of Persia
we find in the seventh year of Artaxerxes (Longima-
nus.) See Ezra vii. 6-28. In this decree we find the
last command of any king of Persia to restore the cap-
tive Jews. We learn that, in this decree, the killg fur-
nished them with money and means to beautify and
adorn the temple which h8.d been built by Darius's order
a number of years before. We find that the interdict,
Ezra IV. 21, in which the Jlvs were commanded not to
build Jerusalem, is now removed by its own limitation
• "until another commandment be given from me." This
decree, therefore, took oft'this command. We learn by
Digitized by Google

LECT11U IV.
Ezra's prayer, ~ 9, that Ezra understood that the decree
to which we all ude d\d give them the privilege of build-
ing, in Judah and Jerusalem, the wall which had been
broken down.
After Ezra had been high· priest and
governor in Jerusalem tlurteen years, Nehemiah was
permitted to go up to assist Ezra in build~ Jerusalem
and repairing the wallr, which was done m troublous
times, under Nehemiah's administration, which lasted in
all 39 yeam. See Nehemiah, 4th to the 7th chapter
Ezra and Nehemiah, both of them having served as gov-
ernors 411 years.
Here, then, we find the fulfilment of what the anll8l
told Daniel would be done under the command that
would begin the seventy weeks, and which is the same
thing -
" 1M Nion." This decree was given 457 years
before Christ: the seventr l'I;eeks began, and if they
ended at the death of Chril¢, which we have proved did
end them, then the seventy weeks ended after Christ 33
years, making, in all, 490 years, which is 70 weeks of
years.
But it is evident that Gabriel has dividell the seventy
weeks into three parts, and I think clearly explains the
use of this division.
.
"Shall be seven weeks, and threescore and two
weeks." Then, as if you should inquire, W~at is seven
weeks for? he explains, "The street shall be built
again, and the wall, even in troublous times." Ezra and
Nehemiah were 49 years, or seven weeks of years, per-
forming these very things, which ended before Christ
408. See large edition of Polyldot Bible. What is
sixty-two weeks for? The anger has already told us,
" U oto the Messiah, the Prince;" that is,. to the time
Christ was anointed to preach, the meaning of Meuiah.
Sixty-two weeks are 434 days; or weeks of years would
be 434 years, which, beginning where the seven Weeks
ended, 408, would end 26 years after Christ, the year
John began to preach as forerunner of Christ. Then
" he shall confirm the coventat with many for one week,·
making in all the seventy weeks. Thus the seven
weeks ended with the administration of Nehemiah, B.
C. 408. Then the sixty-two weeks ended when Jolm
Digitized by Google

CBJUST'S SBCOlm COMING.
6U
began to preach the gospel, A. D. 26; and the one
week was fulfilled in A. D. 33, when Christ offered him-
self upon the cross, as an offering and sacrifice for sin;
"by which offering we are sanctified once for all."
For
he need not offer himself often, as the higb priest did,
under the law. "But now, once in the end of the world,
hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of him-
self." Heb. ix. 26, Therefore, " he shall cause the sac-
rifice and oblation to cease." That is the only and last
sacrifice and oblation that will be ever offered in OUI
world, which can take away sin j "for there remaineth,"
says the apostle, " no more sacrifice for sin." Then let
me inquire, What is the SUID of the instruction of the an-
fel to Daniel? I will sum it up in as few words u
can.
°
. After Daniel had a certain vision, commonly called I
"the vision of the ram, the he-goat, and the little hom,"
Daniel heard one saint inquire of another, how long that
vision should be. The answer was given Daniel, that
it should be unto 2300 da~s, when tile sanctuary should be
cleansed or justified. Daniel then heard a man's voice
between the banks of Ulai, which called and said, Ga-
briel, make this man to understand the vision. Accord-
ingly, Gabriel came to Daniel, and informed him that at
the end of the world, or time appointed of God, the vis-
ion should be fulfilled. He then tells him that the ram
represented the Mede and Persian kingdom j and that
the rough goat represented the Grecian kingdom j ~ivea
a short hiStory of that kingdom, and its four divisiOns j
then shows, at the close of these kingdoms, that another
king would arise, (meaning the kingdom of the little
b,orn, or Roman,) describing him exactly as Moses . .had
described the Romans many centuries before. See Deu-
teronomy xxviii. 49, 50. "The Lord shall bring a na-
tion against thee from far, from the end of the earth, as
swift. as the eagle flieth j a nation whose tongue thou
shalt not understand j a. nation of fierce countenance."
This, no person will disputameans the Romans. TheD
why Dot a similar description in Daniel, viii. 23? "When
the transgressors (meaning the Jews) are come to the
fall, ao king of fierce countenance, and understanding
Digitized by Google

LECTUU IV.
dark sentences, shall stand up, and his power shall be
mighty, but not by his own powcr; and he shall de:aJ
'Wpndertully, and shall prosper and practise, and
destroy the mighty and the holy people."
I think the reader, divested of prejudice, cannot ap-
ply the description given in the above quotation to any
other nation but the Romans. _ .. And through his policy,
he shall cause craft to prosper in his hand." Thil! de-
scription agrees with Paul's man of sin, the mystery of
iniquity which worked in his day, and which would be
destroyed by the brightness of Christ's coming. See 2
Thess. ii. 3-6. "So that he; as God, sitteth ill the
temple of God, showing himself that he is God." Ga-
briel says, "And he shall magnify himself in his heart,
and by peace shall destroy many; he shllll also stand up
against the Prince of princes;" that is, against God;
the very same character which Paul has described. .. But
he shall be broken without hand," that is, .. by the bright-
ness of his (Christ's) coming," as says Paul But as Dan-
iel has said, " By the stone cut out of the mountain with-
out hand;" or, as he says, Daniel vii. 21, ~, .. 1 beheld,
and the same hom made war with the saints, and pre-
vailed over them, until the Ancient of days came, and
judgment was given to the saints of the Most High; and
the time came that the saints possessed the kingdom."
After Gabriel had instructed Daniel thus far, he left
him. Sixteen years Ilfterwards, Gabriel came again to
Daniel, and informed him that he had come to instruct
him, and give him skill and understanding into the vis-
ion, of which we have been speaking. He then gives
him the seventy weeks, shows what would be accom-
plished in that tIme, the cutting off of the Messiah, and
the ceasing of the sacrifice and oblation. He men-
tions the destruction of Jerusalem, and the war of the
little horn; the desolation of the people of God, and
overspreading of abominations. He carries us to the
consummation, destruction of the little horll, called here
the desolator. See margin. reading.
Gabriel, after
giving the history of the scventy weeks, dwells not in
detail on the remainder of the vision, but reserves a more
detailed account for the next visit-whieh is given UDtc
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECOND COllllNG.
n
DB in the 10th to the 12th chapter of Daniel inelu-
sive.
Bl
eks, of which we
ulul
angel Gabriel has
it be
forth of the corn
·store
ern, &c. We hav
mand
all its bearings, b
to E
iven in the 457th
birth of Christ; and 3.3 years afterwards Chnst was cru-
cified; which two numbers, if added, make 490 years,
exactly seventy weeks of years. We learn that Gabriel,
in order to make the vision doubly sure, dividcs the
seventy weeks into three parts, seven, sixty-two, and
one, making in all seventy. He then tells us plainly
what would be accomplished in each part separately.
1st. Seven weeks. "The street shall be built aO'ain,
and
troublous times.
dispu
was accomp'lishe
mini
and Nehemiah.
evid
0 were governors
49 y
s the seven wee
cam
e stream of tim
2d. Sixty-two weeks.
"Unto the MeSSiah, the
Prince j" that is, unto the time that Jesus was
anointed with the Holy Spirit and power to preach
the gospel, either in himself or forerunner John. See
Mark i. 1. Sixty-two weeks of years would be 4:14
years. This would carry us down to twenty-six years
after Christ's birth, and brings us to the very year of
."the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the son
of G
3d
e shall confirm t
man
One week woul
seve
dded· to twenty-
thirt
fter Christ. Here,
exac
mplishment of the
tion.
J es'll Christ. pr
three and a alf years, and by Christ three and a half
years, making sevcn years, called one week, and then
Messiah cut off, and not for himself, Christ crucified,

LECTUQ IV •
. ends the seventy weeks, proves Daniel's prophecy true,
establishes the vision, confounds the Jew, confutes the
infidel, and ought to establish the mind of every be.
liever in the remainder of the vision.
Here, then, is a combination of facts and circum-
stances, together with dates and times, which throws
upon the mind such strong array of testimony, that it.
would seem no rational being could withstand the proof.
And methinks I hear some say, Why all this argument?
No one but a Jew ever di!!puted, but that the seventy
weeks were fulfilled at the death of Christ, and that a
dar in this prophecy was a figure of a year.
should not have been thus particular, and have tres-
passed so much on your time to prove a given point in
Christendom, had I not recently met with more than one
Christia.n professor, and even teachers in Zion, who deny
that the seventy weeks ended with the death of Christ,
or that a day in this prophecy means a year. Some have
gone so far in infidelity as to deny that" Most Holy," in
our text, and " Messiah," in our context, means Christ.
This surely would make a Jew blush. I agree that 1
never anticipated that any objection could be raised on
those points, without a wilful perversion of language,
and a total disregard of the word of God.
.
But man, in his fallen state, is an unaccountable,
strange being; if his favorite notions are crossed, he
will, to avoid conclusions, deny even his own senses.
Therefore it becomes necessary for me to prove, what
has been considered by many, even of the objectors
themselves in ptevious time, given points in theology.
[t is not more than four years since many of the
clergy and D.D.'s in the city of New York met a dele-
gation of the Jewish patriarchs from the East, and in
their conference the clergy and doctors brought forward
the seventy weeks in Daniel, as proof positive of Jesus
of Nazareth being the true Messiah. They explained'
the seventy weeks in the same manner I have to you,
and asked the Jews how ~ey could avoid the conclu-
Ilion? and J understood they could get no answer.
Now, suppose these same clergy and D.D.'s should
meet me on the question now pending; I should not be
Digitized by Google

-
CHRIST'S· ROOI'm :COMINS.
greatly disappointed if they should deny my premises.
"Why would they do thus?" say you. 1 answer, For the
~ same reason that the lawyer hpsitated, when he learned
that it was his bull that !Tored the farmer's ox.
"But might we not understand the seventy weel(s to be
so many literal weeks, that is, 490 common days?" .say
YOll.
I answer, If so, then the command to build J eIa-
salem must have been given only a year and a third
before Christ's death; and it would have been very
improper for Gabrioel to have said, "Unto the Messiah,
the Prince; shall be seven weeks, and three~core and
two weeks," when he had already come, and had been
preaching 1l10re than two years before the weeks began.
No, my friends; every reasonable controversialist must
acknowledge there is no possible way to get rid of
our conclusion but to deny that Most Holy, and
MeSSIah, means Christ, in our text and context. And
I pity, and leave the man in the hands of him who
knows all hearts, that is forced on to ground so un-
tenable as this.
If I have got a right understanding of the seventy
weeks, that a day stands for a year, -
and I have never
been able to find a Christian expositor who disagrees
with me on this point, either modern or ancient, -
then
the conclusion is, as far as I can see, unavoidable, that
the vision of Daniel is 2300 years long, and that the
490 years before Christ's. death is not only the key to
unlock the commencing of the vision, but shows con-
clusively how and when, and manner and time, the kil?g-
doms of this world will be broken to pieces and earned
away, and no place found for them, by tht) stone which
will become a great mountain and fill the whole eurth.
For the seventy weeks must seal up the vision and
make the prophecy of Daniel true.
Then, if 2300 ?~ys
is the length of the vision, and 490 days of that VISlOn
were fUlfilled in 400 years ending with Christ's death,
so must 1810 days end the vision, which, upon precisely
the same rule, will be fulfilled in 1810 years after
Christ's death, or in 184.3 after his hirth, which is the
same thiug . .
But, say some, "Daniel did not understand the vision
Jigiti,ed byCoogle

r..cTVU .1',
DOl' end." Then the angel Gabriel wu not obedient to
the heavenly command; for he wna commanded to make
Daniel "understand the vision," and the vision and end
are connected by the angel himaelt: He says, "At the
time of the end shall be the vision."
Again: if Daniel did not understand, the angel must
have been disappointed; for the an~el says, "Behold, I
will make thee know what shall be In the last end of the
indignation; for at the timt appointed, (2300 daya,) the
end shall be."
-
•
Again: if Daniel did not understand the vision and
time, then his own words cannot be taken as evidence.
" A thing was revealed unto Daniel, and the thing was
true, but the time appointed (2300 dars) was long."
This shows that Daniel understood the time; for he says
it was long. For no man would have called 2300 com-
mon days (not quite seven years) a long time for so
many great and Important events, as are noticed in the
vision, to transpire 10. "And he understood the thi~
(that is, the time,) and had understanding of the vision.
Daniel x. 1.
Now, let the objector quarrel with Gabriel and Daniel
if be pleases. I have their testimony, and shall give
them the ,preference. Some say, "God has not revealed
the time.
I ask, then, Who revealed this vision to
Daniel? By whose command was the answer given,
2300 days?
Who revealed the seventy weeks, the
" time, times, and a half" ?
How came Daniel by his
1290 and 1335 days? Who said to Daniel, "But go
!h0u thy way till the end be, for thou shalt rest and stand
10 thy lot at the end of the days"? Read Daniel ii 20,
23, an~ 28th verses, and let the objector lay his hands
upon hlB mouth and be silent. Has man become 80 bold
in sin that he will contradict angels, defame the proph-
ets, deny the word of God, that we may cry peace
!lnd safe~y, when sudden destruction cometh?
"But
If ye Wlll not hear Moses and the pro,phets, neither
would you though one rose from the dead.
Peter says,
"There shall be scoffers in the last day, saying, Where
is the promise of his coming?" God has not revealed
the timt of the end, say you j therefore' it will be no

CRUIT'I IECOlm COIlIl'f1L
brm for you to "say in your hearts, My Lord delayeili
Gis coming."
Who shall tell the friend of the bridegroom when
to give the midnight cry, "Behold, the bridegroom
cometh" ? For this must be before he comee -
no time
then to cry; for it will be as sudden as the lightning,
says the dear Sa.vior.
Let the objectors look to it, that they do not reject th~
council of God against themselves.
"But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, (ignorant of
the revelation of God,) that that day IIhaIl overtake you
.. a thie£" Amen.

LEO T tJ REV.
REV. siii. J8.
Here is wisdom. Let him that bath understanding eouul the a_
her of the heast; for it is the Dumber of a man; and his lIumbel
is six hWldred threescore and six.
Tins text has caused as much speculation as any-
text in the whole Bible; rivers of ink, have been shed
to explain its meaning, brains have been addled in
trying to find some great mystery which the wisdom of
this world, as was supposed, could only discover; and in
trying to be wille above what was written, men have
lost their balance, and fell into absurdities too ridiculous
to mention. Some have searched through all the vo-
cabulary of Greek names, to find one whose numerical
letters would make the number 666, and they have been
wonderfully blest, for they found a number; but here
again there remained D. difficulty to surmount., which
required as much ingenuity as the former; but to
remedy the evil, every Greek scholar chose the one bis
fancy dictated, wrote his book on the number 666, and
then died, and his wonderful name died with him; for
every wise Greek had his own favorite name. Also, the
Latin book-worms, not wishing to be outdone by their
Greek brethren, rumm~ed all the old goatskin parch-
ments and musty books 10 the cloisters of all the monks
in Christendom; and behold, a much greater harvest wlUt
the fruit of their labo,; for now every Latinus had three
or more names to his share; and in all this wisdom, all
ottter nations were left without. any wisdOln, except
.....
Digitized by Google

CRU.T', .• &C.". COlli" ••
what they borrowed from their neighbors, the learned
Greeks and Latins. But I hope, my dear hearers, that
you have learned that if there is any mystery of God not
explained by the Bible, it is not for us to understand.
Therefore, in treating upon this subject, I shall en-
deavor to present the Scripture on the point, and then
leave you to judge whether we have light or not.
.
I. Show what wisdom this is spoken of in the text.
II. Speak of the beast numbered, and show what
beast.
III. The number, and what we may understand by it.
I. The wisdom spoken of in the text.
1st. Is it the wisdom of men, or of this world? I
answer, No. For Paul says, 1 Cor. ii. 4,13, U And my
speech and my preaching was not with enticing words
of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the spirit and
of power; that your faith should not stand in the wisdom
of man, but in the power of God. Howbeit we speak
wisdom among them that are perfect; ,et not the will-
dom of this world, nor of the princes 0 this world, that
come to nought. But we speak the wisdom of God in a
mystery, even the hidden wisdom which God ordained
before the world unto our glory." NolV, if Paul would
not preach the wiadom of men or the world, surely the
angel would not instruct John to use the wisdom of
man or of this world, "for-the wisdom of this world is
foolishness with God," 1 Cor. iii. 19. And if Paul said
our faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, neither
would John have given any thing that depended on the
wisdom of men for a foundation of our faith. But Paul
has taught us what true wisdom is, by saying, " Christ,
the power of God, and the wisdom of God; " "But God
hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit, for the Spirit
searcheth all things, yea, the deep thin~ of God." And
Paul tells us how we may exercise thie wisdom, 1 Cor.
ii. 13, "Which things also we speak, not in the words
which man's wisdom teacbeth, but whicn the Holr Ghost
teacheth; comparing spiritual things with 'plrituaL"
Here, then, my dear hearer, is the great secret of wis-
dom, to compare .piritual things with spiritual; and then
we have the mind and will of the Spirit, and .hall not be
7-
•

iQry Hable- to air. Let WI, then, fb&w this rule wbile
'We try to explain.
-
11. The beast nlllUberlld ill ~e texL And,
lat. Let us mquire what beast i,t ill. I answer, It is
-the first beasL See our Gontext, 12th verse, "And he
exerciseth all the power of the jirBI beaBt before him; !'
-that is, the beast which John saw come up out of the
sea, (the Roman government,) having seven heads. and
:ten.homa, and upon his horns ten crowns, and upo!lIhis
head the name of blasphemy; and the beast wbich I sa.y
.'Was like unto a leopard, awl his feet· were !is' the feet
of a bear, and his mouth as th~ mouth of a lion; '.nd the
!dragon gave him his' power, ud hia seat, ao,d great
authodty." By this b$St, I ullderstand the same a,s
Daniel's fourth kingdom, the Roman gQvcmment; by
" names of blasphemy," I uDderstRnd I!- mode of woroihip
which would be idolatrous or bluphetDolIS; by the
dragon, we' must 'unde1'8tand the civil power of the Ballijl
govllmment giving its po\ver to the ecclesiastical beut,
whether Pspn or Papal. .3d verse," ADd I saw one
of his heads, (of blasphemy, Pagan) as it were, wounded
to death; and his deadly. wQund was healed,. (by the
· substitution of ili& Papal blasphelBOU8 head ;) and all tqe
world wondered after the beast."
r
John then goes on to describeth~ civil power of t\lls
Rqman gov.emment under this last head, and shows tqe.
length of lime they would exercise this la,st power -" fOf-
tT-two months" ~
which is the Bame as Daniel's time,
· times, and a balt~ or John's l260 days, mentioned Rev.
· %i; 3, xii. 6. His power to make war and overcome too
saints is foretold. IiI.the tenth \Wrse.he shows us halF
this civil power should ~ d~troyed, by captivity e.qd
the sword; and this was fullillQd in 1798, when the POHll
: was carried a ca})tive mto France, and thE! atate!l of Italy
were conquered by the sword of the French army. in
the 11th verse he gives WI a discov.ery of the same bea,t
in his ecc1esiasticalpower; Pagan Rome in the fifllt
· beast, and.Papacy in the image beast;.and it will be evj-
dent to lI.By one who will examine tile chapter carefully,
that John was not command lid to nu/ribtlr the- image
· beut"- for the civil power pf ~t beast, was l;IefQJe
Digitized by Googl!

CHRIST'. UCOKD (;OMIJ.'(G.
numbeted in the 5th verse, -
but the beast which existed
before him, which the Papal ecclesiastical beast is an
image of, or Daniel's daily sacrific'e abomination, (Dan.
xii. II,) the one which Paul said, "he who now letteth
will let, until he be taken out of the way."
In this pas1>age it is evident tJle apostle alludes to the
same power, although he calls it the" working of Satan."
John also gives a similar description in Rev. xii. 9,
I< And the dragort was cast out, that old serpent, called
the Devil, and Satan, which deceivcth the whole world:
he was cast out into the earili, and his angels were cast
out with him." But I have anomer evidence that the.
beast numbered was Pagan Rome, and I think it must
be conclusive testimony, in Rev. xvii. 3. In this chapter
one of the seven angels that had the seven vials came to
instruct John, and to show him" the judgment of the
great whore with whom the kio!!,s of the earth hud com-
mitted fornication, !lnd the inhaoitacts of the earth have
been made drunk with the wine of her foruication."
"So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilder-
ness, and I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet-colored beast,
full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten
horns."
lIere the same idolatrous beast, having seven heads
and ten horns, is described; the woman sittinl;r upon
this beast is tbe same as Daniel's little horn whicn came
up among the ten horns, and shows plainly that it was
that part of Roman power which WIlS prior to the woman,
and was of course called the j/J'st beast.
Wilen Jolin
saw this woman on the scarlet-colored beast, he wondered
with great admiration, and says, Rev. xvii. 7, "And the
angel said unto me, Wherefore didst thou marvel? J
will tell thee the mystery of the womllll and of the beast.
that carrielh her, which hath the seven heads and teu
horns.
Th~ beast iliat thou Bawest was, and is not; and
shall ascend ont of the bottomless pit, and go into perdi-
tion, and they that dwell on the earth shall wondor,
whose names weTe not written in the book of life from
the foundation of the world, when they behoM the beast
that was, and is not, and yet. is." "That was," Pagan
Rome before John saw hill vision," and is not," ret in

ita "etqe of Papal Rome," and yet ia," m the ...
• pirit, for Papal Rome is but an image of Paganism, u
_ya the Apostle, 2 Theas, ii. 6, 7, "ADd now -,e know
what withholdeth, that he may be revealed in his time,
for the mJltery of iniquity doth already work." And, 1
John ii. 18, .. Little children, it is the lut time, aDd u
'1e have heard that anti-Christ Bhall come, even now are
there many anti-Christ&, whereby we know it is the 1."
time." And ar!n, Rev. xvii. 9, "And here is the mind
which hath wladom;" evi~ntly referring John right
back to our text, .. Here is wisd~ I let him that hath
.underBtandin«," the aame as mind in the above quotatioD.
"The leven heads are leven mountains on whicb the
woman sitteth, and there are eeven kings; five are falleu,
one is, and the other ia not yet come; and when he
cometh, be muat continue a lIhort space, and the IleaC
that was, and is not, even he is the eighth, and is of the
.. ven, and goeth into perditiou." Tbeee tezta explain
the whole matter; for it is evident that the"" here
alluded to was the aeven-headed moneter who was tben
in existence when John wrote, for five of ita executive
forma of government (of which kings and mountain. are
fia'urea) had fallen. Republican Rome had five .difFerent
offices under that particular form of ~O\'ernment -
ber
amaIorial, tribulllJte, t:07II1&l/U', deeemW, and triumeiral&
These were fallen. One is, (that wu when Jolin wrot.e
hill prop/lec,,) Imperial, and the other had not let come,
Ili.AtE11i, whICh is the eame as the ten homs. For wMa
the -Westem Empire fell, Rome was divided into tea
kingdoms, .. And the ten horus whicb thou sawest are
ten kinga, which hsve received no kingdom as yet; but
receive power as kinp one boor with die beast." Th ...
.have one mind, (tbat ii, were all converted to the Catho-
lic faith,) and shall give their power and strength unto
the beast, Papal Rome. .. Theae shall make war with
the Lamb, and the Lamb aball overcome them; for he iI
Lord of 10rdJ and King of kings ; and they that are with
him are called, and chosen, and faithful." And although
this be .... whatever form it may aaaume, whether
Pagan or Papal, may for a Beason tyrannize over and
trample Oil the followers of Christ, throurh the apne1
Digitized by Google

CBAII~I 5&COJrD"ClOllllfa.
or tb~ eVil Power of emptre., kmgcimn., BtII.tM, Ill' re;abo'
lies, yet He who rules over all, 'IriI1, in the end, deetlOJ;
all these powers, and hilD8elf reign King of kings Ind'
Lord over all. " And the ten homlwhich thou sawesl
upon the beast, these shall haUl the whore, and shall
mRke ber'desolate and naked, and cut her ftesh,and bUrn
her with fire."
,
;
This text has been literally accomplished within a few
:years; and thc)IIe kingdoms which were of the ten, king-
doms which first gave power to the beut, have of late,
persecuted and aestroyed her,-wbo 'is the abomination
of the whole earth. Witnen the tnlDiactioDS ·of Great
Britain, France, Spain, Portugal;Auetria, Napl8ll, and'
TUilcany, the Seven Kingdoms which' were not ~acked
up by·the little hom; eaea oftheee nations hava In their
torn resisted the power and pretensions of the Pope of
Rome, until hie ci'lil authority is reduced to a -ciphel' in
aD 'theBe kingdome.' "For God hath pot in their hearts
to fulfil hie will, and to agree and give thear killllClom
unto Ute beast; until the worde of God Ihall be fuUiTled."
Then must the Pa(l8:l beast, the, image of Paganilm, be
numbered and fiDlshed, and like a weighty mJll..atone
stank in the deep, he mOlt with· the Pagan beut sink
forever and evett.'
,
Thus we seethe two beasts, althoughlupported by the
same, power, "the great red dragon or Roman kinsrdom,"
exerCfsing the : Bame authority over the bodies anil sonIa
o.f nten; pattalting' of the same ·spirlt of. Satan, ,made like
~aeb o1fi~, one tieing bnt an image of the other, having
tile same III1mEi8 of blasphemy on ·theU' heads, and both
having, at the close of their times, the lame ten hCll'Ds,
and . both have, and'· are to ha\le, their civil. power
destroyed by the same ten homs. Yet we see them kept
8,ep~te an,d distinct. Pagan ·Rome m1l8t reign his
tidi&, artd thenth'e ten horns,or kingS, would take away
the "daily ila.critice abomination," and plaee in hie stead
the Ie abomination that maketh desolate." The 11181:
abomination WBB nnmberediin the same chapter ,where
OUr text is found, "forty and two months." And why!
oot give us the number of the first beast? He has:
• Let him that ha.th understanding count the nnmber of·
Digitized by Google

LJ:CTUU V.
fJle beast; for it is the number of a man; and his D1IJDo
ber is six hundred threescore 8Jld lilt." This briDga UI
to our uen proposition.
IlL To mow what we may understand by the DUm
bering of the beut. And,
.
1st. What may we understand by numbering an)
thing ofthil kind in Scripture? For the Scripture mlllt
be our guide, u we have before. said.
.
I &DIwer, It is to count, to finish, or to destroy, when
ueed in a figurative seBle, or in prophetic Scripture, u in
Iaa. xxii. 10, "And ye have numbered the hoU1811 of Je-
rusalem, and the housetl have ye broken down to fortify
the walL" They were accused by the prophet of de-
stroying. houaes, by numbering them or counting them
for destruction. Also see IA.lxv.l2, II Therefore will
I nutnber you to the aword, 8Jld ye lhall all bow down to
the alaughter." Here again it ill used in the Ame senae:
I will reckon or count you to the 1W0rd.
Again, Dan.
v. 25, 26, "And this is the hand-writin, that wu written:
MEitz, VEIU:, TEDL, 'UPB.A.RIIIN. ThIS is the interpreta-
tion of the thing: .EIf&, God hath numbered thy king.
dom and hath fiDisbed it."
A8, therefore, the idolatrous and blasphemoul king-
dom of Babylon wu numbered and finiahed by Goa,
wholle decree W&I conveyed by the hand-writing on the
wall to the knowledge of Daniel and other-, 10 wu
John commanded; by the impiration of the Holy Spirit,
to write in thillut book of prophecy, the ¥En, TEK&L,
of this 1ut idolatroua Pagan beut. " Here is wisdom."
Let a wise Daniel, or bim that bath the wisdom of
God like a Daniel, or " let him that hath underatandin, 'to
in the word of God, or him that will compare Icnp-
tore with ICripture," count the number of the beaat,"
or the number of his name.
Let UI inquire what is the name of this beut.
His
name is ~,
beeaule be causel all, both hUrh and
low, rich ana poor, bond and free, to wOl'lhip stocb and
mnes, idols of gold, and Iilvel, and wood, that can nei-
ther see, hoar, nor talk. Bee the lit velie of our eon- .
text, " and upon his hesd the name of 6~,"
wbich
teacm. _ what the name of thil beut is, and moWi UI
0'0'"'' "Coogle

CllaJlT'1 nOOlfD CO.IKe.
that we are to count, or reckon, how long before the
blaspbemies of this Pagan power will be finished j " for
it is the number of a man." And what, YOIl may inquire,
is the number of a man? I ans'Wer again, We must apply
to God's word" the number of a man."
Moses SIlYS, Exodus xxiii. 26," The number of thl
days I will fulfil."
Job, speaking of man, sa.ys, xiv. a,
"Seeing his days are determined, the number of his
months is with thee, thou hast appointed his bounds tha.t
he cannot pass." David says, Ps. xc. 12, "So teach us
to number our days, that we may apply our hearts unto
wisdom." Therefore, we may reasonably conclude that
the" number of a man" is the number of his days; and
the Scriptures often speak of man in connection with his
time of sojourn ou the earth, calling it days; as, " few and
evil have been the da.lJs of my pilgrimage; " " died, being
old and full of days;" "length of d'lYs is in her right
hand j " "all the days of thy life; " "I will wait all tbe
da1l8 of my appointed time until my change come." If
thIS is the under.standing of this part of our text, which I
cannot see any reason to doubt, then our text lins this
plain meaning. Here is need of spiritual wisdom. Let
him that hath understanding count the number of his
days; for his days are numbered as a man's; they are
six hundred three.3core and six. 'I'his power (Rome
Pagan) would be taken away when his six hundred and
sixty~ix prophetic days should end; and this brings us
to show when those days began, and of course when ·
they ended.
They must have begun when the Jewish rites and
ceremonies were in being j for this was the sole object
of Paganism, to counteract the Jewish ritnals and draw
the Jewish worshippers into idolatry, and to blend the
heathen rites with theirs. They must have begun be-
fore Christ was born, for the great red dragon having
seven heads and ten horns wa~ to stmd before the woman,
(the Je~ish Church,) ready to dev£>ur the man child ns
soon as It was born.
They could not have begun before
they became connected with the Jews, for the reason
that no nation is prophesied of, or noticed in the proph-
ecie~, except they Are somehow connected with the
Diaitizea l)yGoogle

people of God; and for the very reason that this beast
was to tread down the Jews, and finally, by cunning, de-
ceit, and intrigue, destroy the city and nation of the Jews,
then 1 think the filire/lt conclusion is, that when they be-
came connected with the Jews by lea~ue, and when they
had conquered Daniel's third kingaom, the Grecian.
Then, aDd not until then, had the Romans any part in
this prophecy. This 80'rees with the angel's statement,
Dan. xi. 23, "Afrer th~ league made with him, (that is,
Romans,) he shall work deceitfully, and become strong
with a small (republican) people." This league was
made between the Romans and the Jews, ratified and
carried into effect when the Greeks under Bachides left
besieginl; Jerusalem, upon tJle command of the Romans,
and, as Josephus and Maccabees tell us, never returned
to trouble them (the Jews) any mnre.
This league,
then, took effect when the third kingdom in Daniel's
vision cease.d harassing the Jews, and the fourth king-
dom began Its rule over the Jews and the world.
This
was in the year B. C. 158. Let those who wish to be
satisfied of the correctness of the foregoing statements
read the 8th and 9th chapters of the 1st Maccabees,
and Josephus, B. XlL chapt.er x; sec. 6, of his Antiquities.
Then, if this be correct, that Pagan Rome began his
power in the year B. C. 158, and was to continue G66
years, when would Paganism.fall in the Roman kingdom,
and the" daily sacrifice abomination" be taken out of
the way to make room for the abomination of desolation?
I answer, Take 158 from 666 and you will have 508.
Then ill the year A. D. 508 Paganism ceased.
What is the history of that time? I answer, that
ahout the year A. D. 476 the Western Empire of Rome
crumbled to pieces, and the Pagan nations of the north,
crossing the Rhine aDd the Danube, established ten
kingdoms in what WIlS considered the Western Empire.
France was the principal kinl!dom of the ten. These
kingdoms were all ~overned by Pngan kings; nnd his-
tory informs us that in the city of Rome and other places
in the empire these Pagan conquprors sacrificE-d \l'Ien,
IVOlllen, nnd children to their snpposf'd deities; and
that in the year 496 Clovis )dng of France WIlS converted

CRUST'S SECOND cOllum.
and baptized into the Christian faith j and that the re-
mainder of these kings embraced the religion of Christ
shortly after, the last of which was Christianized in the
rear 508, and of cOlirse Paganism ceased, having lost
Its head by the power of the sword, or kings who wiel~
the sword. Here, then, was the flccomplishment of two
important prophecies -
the daily sacrifice abomination
taken out of the way, and the Pagan beast receiving
it~ deadly wound by a sword j since which time we have
no account of any Pagan rites or sacrifices being offered
within the bounds of ancient Rome. How exactly has
the word of God been accomplished! How just and
true are all the ways of the God of heaven!
And how
olind nre mortals th'lt they cannot see their own destiny
in the rise and fall of others! I am n~tonished sometimes
when I reflect on the simple trutlls of the word of God,
the exact fulfilment of the prophecies, that more do not
beliove, repent, and turn to God.

,
...
LECTURE VI.
DANIEL s. 14.
Now I IUn come to make thee understand what shall befall t1a,
people in the latler days; for yet the vision is for many days.
THIS is the third, time the angel Gabriel came to in.
struct Daniel. The first time was when Daniel bad the
vision of the he-goat, Daniel viii. 16. This 'was 553
years before Christ. The second time he came WaR
when Daniel WBS praying for the deliverance of his peo-
ple from their Babylonish captivity, fifteen years after
the first visit, w hen he instruct.ed him into the seventy
weeks, and crucifixion of the Messiah. Now he Jlas
come in the third year of Cyrus the Persian, in the 534
D. C., 21 years after Daniel had his vision of the four
beasts, nineteen after the he-goilt, and four years after
the seventy weeks' instruction.
After informing Daniel his purpose, as in our text,
anu making some preliminary observations concerning
the t1iaion in the remainder of the tenth chapter, he be-
gins his teachings to Daniel, and through him to uS;
with the first of the 11th chapter. 1st verse, he tells
who' he, the' heavenly messenger, is -
the same who
confirmed Daniel in the seventy weeks.
See Daniel
ix. 1, 21. And in the second verse he begins with the
fifth king of Persia, the very same king who issued the
decree to Ezra to go up and build the walls of Jerusa-
lem, which began our seventy weeks, Daniel ix. 25;
Ezra VIi. 1-14. For the first Persian king was then on
the throne, Daniel x. 1, which wall the third year of the
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S IECOlO) COIllIf&.
reign of Cyrus, king of Persia. This was the same
CYnIS who was general and son-in-law to Darius tho
:Mede, that conquered Babylon. Besides whom" there
should be yet three kings," which three kings were
Artaxerxes, Darius, and Ahasuerus, as they are named
in Scripture. See Ezra, iv. v. and vi. chapters. I am
aware that history has named four where Scripture has
only named three.
History names, 1, Cambyses; 2,
Smerdis, same as Artu.xerxes above named in Scripture;
3, Darius, son of H!staspes, same as above; 4, Xerxes,
same p.s Scripture calls Ahasuerlls. Why the Scripture
did not name Cambyses, if there was such a king, 1 am
not able to tell, unless his reign was so short (which all
historians agree in) that he had no hand in building or
hindering the building of the temple at Jerusalem, as
the other three kings had, which Ezra has named. But
as Gabriel did not come to tell Daniel any thing which
was not "noted in the Scripture of truth," (see Daniel
x. 21, " But I will show thee that which is noted in the
Scripture of tmth,") therefore the languaae of our
text now under examination will be this -" There shall
stand up yet three kings in Persia, (noted in the Scripture
of truth,) and the fourth shall be far richer than they
all," &c. This fourth king was Artaxerxes Longimanus,
and is the same king noted in Ezra vii., and the first and
only king of Persia "noted in the Scriptures," who ever
gave a decree to rebuild the walls" and streets of J eru-
salem, especially in troublous times. 'Ve may therefore
reasonably and conclusively determine that the mt's-
senger. Gabriel begins his instruction with this king's
reign, the 5th king noted in Scripture. And if so, we
have a.nother strong and forcible evidence that Daniel's
vision of the ram and he-goat began with the seventy
weeks, 457 years before the birth of Christ, and 490
years, or 70 prophetic weeks, before his death, Dan. xi.
3, 4. We have the plain history of Alexander, the COIl-
queror of the world, his death, and division of the king-
dom into four great empires. Hear what Gabriel says
of him more than 200 years beli,re the event happened,
and learn, ye skeptics, the evidence that this prophecy
is of divine origin. "And a mighty king shall stand up
[igilizeJ.JY
oogle

J:IICTUU VI.
'
that shall rule with great dominion, and do accordin~ to
his will.
And when he shall stand up, his kingaom
shall be broken, and shall be divided toward the foUl
winds of heaven, and not to his posterity, nor according
to his dominion which he ruled; lor his kingdom shall
be plucked up, even for others besides those," (that is,
his posterity.)
Need I, then, tell my hearers that history tells us that
Alexander conquered the then known world in about six
years, and that he died 323 years B. C. at Babylon; that
his kingdom was divided among his greatest generals,
from which division arose four great kingdoms, Egypt in
the south, Persia in. the east, Syria in the north, and
Macedonia in the west, which kingdoms lasted until
conquered by the Romans? Between the years 100 and
30 B. C. nearly all these kingdoms became Roman prov-
inces. }i'rom Daniel Xi. 5, 13, inclusive, we have &
prophecy of the two principal kingdoms out of these four
-
Egypt and Syria; and anyone who may have the cu-
riosity to Bee the exact agreement between the prophecy
and history, can read Rollin's Ancient History, where he
has not only given us the history, but applied this proph-
ecy. And aslsee no reason to disagree from him in his
application of these texts, I shall, therefore, for brevity's
sake, pass over these texts, and examine the text, Dan. xi.
14," And in those times there shall many stand up against
the king of the soutP!; also, the robbers of thy people
shall exult themselves to establish the vision; but they
shall fE U."
'I'he king of the south, in this verse, without
any dOllbt, means king of Egypt; but what the robbers
of thy people means remains yet a doubt perhaps to some.
That It cannot mean Antiochus, or any king of Syria, it is
plain; for the angel had been talking about that nation for
a number of verses previous, and now says, "also the
robbers of thy people," &c., evidently implying some
other nation. I will admit that Antiochus did perhaps
rob the Jews; but how could this" establish the vision,"
as Antiochu9 is not spoken of ony where in the vision as
performing any act of that kind; for he belonged to what
is called the Grecian kingdom in the vision. Again," to
utahlish the vision," must mean to make sure, complete,
or fulfil the same. And if it cannot be shown that the

CBAI8T'S IBCOND COMING.
Grecian kingdom was to rob the people of God, 1 think
it must mean some other nation which would do these
acts, to which every word will apply.
And to this we
need not be at a loss; for at this very time of IV hicb the
angel is speaking, Rome, tbe least kingdom in Daniel's
vision, did exalt itself, and this kingdom did have tbe very
marks in the vision, and in the events following.
This
kingdom was to have great lron teeth; it was to break in
pieces, and stamp the re.idue witb the feet of it.
The
vision also says, "He shall destroy wonderfully, and
shall pr03per and practise, and shall destroy the mighty
and holy people, and that he shoulcl magnify himself,"
&c., the salPe as exalt himself, Daniel vii. 7, 23; viii.
1'0-12, 24, 25 verses.
And it cannot be dl'nied but that
the Jews have been robbed of their city and sanctuary
by the Romans, and the Christian church has been per-
secuted and robbed by this dreadful beast, the Roman
kingdom. It is evident too that when this kingdom falls,
the vision will be completed, fulfilled, established: "but
they shall fall," says the angel in the verse under our
present examination; "they sball fall;" that is, the ten
horns in this fourth kingdom, when the vision is fulfilled
or established, and wheu the stone cut out of the moun-
tain without hands shall grind them to powder.
We
will tal,e the 15t.h, "So the king of the north" (Rome
is now the king of the north, because they had conquered
the Macedonian kingdom, and had become masters of the
countries north and east before they attacked Egypt)
"shall come and cast up a mount, and take the most
fenced cities; and the arms of the south shall not with-
Btand, neither his chosen people, neither shall there be
any strength to withstand." This was about fifty years
before Christ, when Pompey, a Roman general, con-
quered Egypt, and made that kingdom tributary to the
Romans, and afterwards entered Jerusalem, and made
them subjects of the Roman government. See verdes
16 and 17, " But he that cometh against him" (Pompey
co.ming against Egypt) "shall do according to his own
will, and none shall stand before him, and he shall stand
in the glorious land which by his hand shall be con-
awned. He shall also set his face to enter with the
8"

LECTUJU: VI.
strength of his whole kingdom, and upright ones with
him," (or men of equal conditions, as it might have been
rendered.) The Roman army, of which Pompey had the
command, when he went into Egypt and Palestine, were
composed of the SOlIS of all the principal citizens of
Rome, who were, according to the laws of the republic,
to serve ten years in the service of their country before
they were admitted to receive the high offices which
they might afterwards be candidates for.
This accounts
for the language just read in the text -" upright ones
with him." And" thus shall he do: he shall give him
the daughter of woman, corrupting her; but she shall
not stand on his side nor be for him."
\Vhen Pompey
went into Egypt, he found that country divided between
Ptolemy and Cleopatra.
Pompey, after he had made
them tributary to the Romans, compelled them to settle
their differences by marriage. Afterwards, when Julius
Cresar came against Pompey with his western veterans,
with whom he had conquered the west purt of Europe,
and in the battle fought between these two contending
rivals; Pompey and Julius Cresar, Cleopatra had the
command of the Egyptian fleet on the side of PomP"lY j
but in the midst of the action she deserted over to CreBar
with her whole fleet, which tllrned the fortune of the
day in favor of Julius Cresar. Pompey then fled into
the Grecian isles, where he compelled many of them to
declare in his favor.
But Cresar soon followed him, and
at the battle of Pharsalia completely defcated Pompey,
who was slain by a band of pirates or robbers. This
part we ha.ve in the 18th verse, "Arler tllis shall he
(Pompey) turn his face unto the isles, and shall take
many j but a prinee (Cresar) for his own behalf shall
cause the reproach offered by him (Pompey) to cease;
without his own (Cresar) r('proach he shall cause it to
turn upon him, (Pompey:) 19th verse, "Then he (Cresar)
shall turn his face towards the fort of his own land;
bllt he shaH stumble nnd fall, and not be found." The
history of Cresar's death is familiar to every school-boy.
After he had conquered Pompey, he returned to Rome,
entered the city in triumph, and a few days after, ~vh('n
he was about to be crowned Emperor, he wa.s slain in

CHIUST'S SBCOND COMING.
the senate-house" before Pompey's pillar, by his own
friends; "he stumbled and fell, and was not found."
20th verse, "Then shall stand up in his estate a raiser
of taxes, in the glory of the kingdom; but within a few
days he shall be destroyed, neither in anger nor in
battle." This verse describes Octavius Cresar, who first
taxed the Roman provinces, Judea being taxed (see
Luke ii. 1, 5) when our Savior was born; but Octavius
Cresar, afterwards called Augustus Cresar, was not
slain like his uncle Julius, nor like his successors; but
died peaceably in his bed. 21st and 22d verses, " And
in his estate shall stand up a vile person, to whom they
shall not give the honor of th'e kingdom; but he shall
come in-peaceably, and obtain the kingdom by flatteries.
And with the arms of a flood shall they be overthrown
from before him, and shall be broken; yea, also, the
prince of the covenant." In these two verses we have
the history of Tiberius Cresar, who was the successor of
Octavius Cresar in the Roman empire; and was one of
the most vile, profligate, bloody tyrants that ever sat
upon the Roman throne. History gives us tile same
account, that he obtained by Batteries the kingdom, and
afterwards ruled it by tyranny. He also assumed the
name of Augustus. In his reiITn Christ was crucified,
"the Prince of the covenant w~s broken." Here ends
the history of the seventy weeks. This prophetic his-
tory being divided into four divisions, the first part is
the history of the seventy weeks, to which we have been
attending, which began in the seventh year of Arta-
xerxes' reign, and ended in the 2'2d year of Tiberius
Cresar's, being four hundred and ninety years; the second
pnrt will be the history of Pagan Rome, which begins
with the first league made between the Romans and the
Jews, and will carry us down six hundred and sixty-six
years. You will likewise observe that the angel goes
back .and begins this history witIl the league. 22d verse,
"And after the league made with him he shall work
deceitfully: he shall come up, and shall become strong
with a small people."
Let us in the first place inquire, Between whom is this
league made? The Romans must be one of the contract-

LECTURE VI.
ing partIes, from the fact that the angel is talking ahout
that government before and al1;erwards, and that tbe
fourth or Roman kingdom was to work deceitfully, "and
through his policy also he shall cause craft to prosper in
his hand." See Daniel viii. 2.3.
And also from. the cir-
cumstance of their being a small or republican people at
first, Rome, too, was small in territory at this time, al-
though many nations and kingdoms were tributary unto
them; but who was the other contracting part.y in this
league? r answer, It must have been some people whom
thu anJel had in view; and be, Daniel, had tile same in
view, or he wonld ha.ye g,iven some mark by which Dan-
iel or the reader could have come to a just conclusion.
Yes, this was the case; for he had told Daniel in the
very outset, "Now I am come to make thee. understand
what shall befall thy people in the latter days."
See our
text. This, then, is the key that unlocks the whole sub-
ject, and explain. two important points in the vi.ion.
First, it teaches who are the subjects of this vision; and,
secondly, when and how the Roman kingdom became
connected with the vision. If! am tbus far correct, then
the angel has reference to the league made with the Ro-
mans 158 years B. C., when the Grecian g~ neral Bachi-
des withdrew his army from before Jeru.alem, and ll~ver
returned to vex the Jews any more, as says 1 Maccabees
ix. 72. For the history of this league, you can read 1
Maccabees viii. and Jooephlls B. XII. chap. x. sec. 6
This league was the first ever made between the Romans
and the Jews, according to Josephus. It took effect
158 years B. C., when the Grecian kingdom, at the
command of the Romall3, ceased to trouble the J ewa, and
the Romans began to work deceitfully. Then began the
Pagan beast to exercise his influence over the people
of God.
And nolV let us pursue his history as given by
the angel Gabriel, 24th verse, " He shall enter peace-
ably, even upon the fattest places of the province; and
he shall do that which his fathers have not done, nor his
fathers' fathers; he shall scatter among them the prey,
and spoil, and riches; yea, he shall forecast his devices
again.~t the strong holds even for a time." Tbis verse

,CHillers II&COIQ) COiliNG.
is a true history of the rise of the 'Roman power; they
did scatter the prey and spoil among the provinces, and
conquered more nalions by their munificence and be- ,
nevolence in the outset, than by their arms or battles.
Rome bought more nations by riches and intrigue than
she conquered in war; and she compelled the Jews to
submit for about two centuries to that which no nation
before had been able ever to do, viz" to be ruled by kings,
governors, and high priests, appointed by the Romans,
and not chosen by themselves. 25th verse," And he
shall stir up his power and his courage against the king
of the soutn with a great army; and the king of the
80Uth shall be stirred up to battle with a very great and
mighty army; but he shall not stand 1 for they shall
forecast deVices against him." This is a description of
the war in Egypt, und~ the government of Mark Antony
and Octavius Cresar. " ¥ ea, they that feed of the por-
tion of his meat shall -destroy him, and his army shall
overliow, and many shall fall down slain." When An-
tony went into Egypt with a great army, Cleopatra, then
queen of }~gypt, deserted her husband's Rtandard, as she
had before Pompey's, and went over to Mark Antony
with aU the forces she could command, by which means
Egypt became an easy prey to the Romans; so that a
part of the Egyptian army, that fed of the portion of the
king'.s meat, were the means of destroying the kingdom.
" And both of these kings' hearts shall be to do mischief,
and they ,shall speak lies at one table; but it shall not
prosper; for yet the end shall be at the time appointed."
These two kings are Antony and Octavius, their char-
acters agreeing with the description given in this pas-
s~e; history agreeing that they ruled over the Romans
for a sea ",on jointly, and that they were both of them
great deceivers and liars. History also informs us that
after Antony had conquered Egypt, he and Octavius
quarrelled; Octavius Cresar declared war against A n-
tony, mlUched an army towards Egypt, and at the bat-
tle of Actium defeated Antony and Cleopatra's forces,
afterwards took Alexandria in Egypt, and Antony and
Cleopatra put themselves to death, and Egypt becomes
a Roman province. This W'13 thirty years before the
Diaitizea l)yGoogle

L£CTUa& VI •
• birth ofCbriat. 28,-"Tben!ball he return bito his land
with great riches; and his heart shall be against the
holy covenant; and he shall do exploits and return to
his own land."
Then Octavius returned to Rome.
And the next exploit that this fourth kingdom would do
would be against the holy covenant. They, by their
authority, crucified our Savior, lM'rsecuted the saints,
and destroyed Jeruaalem; and this 1i11a up the acts of
this Pagan history until towards the clOlle of the reign
of the Pagan beast. 29," At the time appointed, he
.ball return, and come toward the south; but it aJla11 not
be as the former, or as the latter."
The time appointed
must mesn the length of the reign of this beast, wboee
history the angel is now giving, which 1 have shown, ill
a former lecture, is 666 ~ears. "He shall return, and
come towards the south, not as the former or latter.
Not as the Romans going into Egypt, the latter; Dor
the. Syrians going into Egypt, as the former; but Italy
must now take her tum to be overrun by the northem
barbarians. Therefore the angel @afa,inthenextver&ef
see 30, ( " For the ships of Chittim shall come agairut
him;") the meaning of which is, that the Huns, which
lived on the north of the Adriatic Sea, the place where
it was anciently called Chlttim, under their leader AttiIa,
(surnamed the Scourge of God,) should ravage the R0-
man empire. This·was fulfilled 447 years after Christ.
..... Therefore he sball be grieved,md return, and have in-
dignation against. the hory covenant; so shall he do; he
shall return, and have intelligence with them that for-
sake the holy covenant."
About the time thatAttilara~d the Roman empire,
Chriatians conceived it to be a Judgment of God uWn
the Romans for their idolatry and wickedness, refused
to bear arms in favor of the Roman emperors, which led
to a bloody persecution of Chriatians, and a renewal of
Pagan rites and sacrifices, which had been partially SUB-
pended during the reign of Constantine and succeeding
emperors, except in the case .of Julian the Apostate.
" And arms shall stand on hiI!. part," that is, the force of
the empire would be on the Side of Papniam
" And
they shall pollute the BBDoCtuiLry of strength."
7'1t1Jy, iD
Digitized by Google

this passage, mean the governmtDts or kings, established
on tbe fall of the Roman empire in the west, by the
Huns, Goths and Vandals of the north. "By sanctuary of
strength," is meant Rome.
And it is said that at the
time that Rome was taken, men, women, and children
were sacrificed to their Pagan deities. "And shall
take away the daily sacrifice." The angel is giving us
a history of what these kings would do, when Rome
should be divided into its ten toes, or when the ten horns
should arise, which the angel has heretofore explained
to mean ten kings, Daniel vii. 24.
This is evident by
his using the plural pronoun instead of the singular, as
before, or as he will following, when the little horn ob-
tains the power.
Tq" take away the daily sacrifice,"
means to destroy Paganism out of the kingdom. This
was done by those ten kings who now ruled the Roman
empire, and would for a little season, until they should
give their power to the image beast. "And they shall
place the abomination that maketh desolate."
Tlle:y,
me:!.ning the ten kings, shall place, shall put in the room
or place of the dail.lf sacrifice or Pagan beast which would
now receive its death wound by the sword, that is, by the
civil power of this fourth kingdom, under the reigning
power of these ten kings j for John tells us, Rev. XVil.
]2,13, "And the ten horns which thou sawest are ten
kings, which have received no kingdom as yet; but
shall receive power as k.ing~ one hOllr with the beast j
these have one mind, (being all Pagans,) and sh:!.l1 give
their pow\!r and strength unto the bea.~t :" that is, to sup-
port Paganism. Now, this was evidently fulfilled; for
after the fall of the Western Empire, A. D. 476, and be-
fore A. D. 4DO, ten kin&"s Imel risen upon the ruins, and
formed ten separate klllgdoms, the names of which I
have before given j they all being PlLganS, of course
they supported tint form of worship, nntil they were con-
verted to the Christian faith, which hnppened within the
space of twenty years, Clovis, the king of France, having
been converted and baptized in the ye:!.r A. D. 496.
By
the year A. D. 508, the remainder of the kings were
brought over and embraced the Christian religion, which
closE:'s the history of the Pag:!.n beast, whosil number

t.ZO'I'1JU yr.
YIUI 666; which, begiufting 158 year8 B. C., would eniI.
the beast's reign A. D. 508, having reigned but a short
time, (OM hour, says John,) with the ten kin,.,.... We
have now gone through with the angel Gabriel's second
part of the history, as we promised.
J shall now go on with the illustration of the third
part of his prophetic history, which is the history of the
uuage beast, the deadly wound healed, or what Daniel
ealls .. the abomination that ·maketh desolate." This
beast would rule over the kinl!8 of the earth, and tread
the church of God under foot forty-two months, or time,
times, and a half, which is twelve hundred and -sixtY'
years, in common time, or, as the angel tells us in Daniel
xii. 11, from the taking away the daily abomination to
set up the abomination that maketh desolate, should be
a thousand two hundred and ninety- days, showing a
difference of thirty years from the statement of the
actual reign of the image beast and the other, which in-
cludes all the time from taking away down through the
setting up or reign of the image beast. Therefore, to
reconcile these two statements, we must concll1de there
were 30 years from A. D. 508, when Paganism c~ased, _
before the image bea;;t, or Papal Rome, would begm her
reign. If this is correct, then the 1290 began 508, and
would end us in 1798. But the reigJ) of Papacy would
not be set up until A. D. 538, and would end us in the
lIarne year, A. D. 1798, being ]260. Thia, then, is the
history the angel win give us next. 32," And such as
do wickedly against the covenant shall be corrupted by
flatterers j Dut the people that do know their God shall
be strong, and do exploits."
The ecclesiastical histori~
ans tell us that in the beginning of the sixth century,
about A. D. 538, a number of writers in that day under-
took to prove that the Papal chair, together with coun-
cils of his approval, were infallible, and their laws were
binding on the whole church. These writers were
highly honored and flattered with promotion by the reign-
ing powers i whil~ on the other hand there were many
who opposed this power of the Pope and clergy, who
were denounced aa schismatics and Ariana, and driven
Dot of the kingdoms under the control of the Romisb
Digitized b" Google
-

CHRIST'S •• CDI.'m COMtKG.
ehurch. 33, "And they tbo.t 'undentaud among· ~
people shall instruct many; Tet they shall faU by the
sword, and by 8ame, by CaptiVity, and by spoil many
days." Those who instructed the cOIDIDOa people, and
oppolled the worahippiDg of ima~, the infallibilitr of
the Pope and cOUDcils, the canonIZing of dep8rted samts,
were persecuted by the civil power, (the BW'0rd,) were
burned by order of the ecclesiastical conrts fJ8tabliahed
by the laws of Justinian, emperor of Constantinople,
whose code of laws, published about A. D. 534, gave
unto the bidhop of Rome power to establish courts for this
purpose, and many in the sixth century and subsequent
down to a late period, "many days," suft"ered death, im·
prisonment, and confiscation .of goods, in cOlISequellce
of a difference of opinion in mattel'l1 of religion, by the
tyranny of this abomination, "the bloody city whilb has
reigned over the kings of the earth." 34," Now, when
they shall fall, they shall be helped with a little help;
but many shall cleave to them with ftatteries." This
text agrees with one in Revelatioo xii. 16, .. And the
earth helped the ' woman." "But many shall cleave to_
them;" that is, many men of the world ,,.ould cleave to
them, and professedly would flatter the true people of
God that they were friendly at least to them, and by •
these meaDS Satan carried on his wars against the chilo
dren of God. 35," And some of them of understaRdinll
shall fall, to try them, and to PUllf': and to make them
white, even to the time of the end, because it is yet for
a time appointed." This verse shows us that even Chris-
tians would be led into serne of the eriors of Papacy,
and would be tried and purged, even to the end of this
image beast's reign, which time is appointed, 811< I have
already shown, to be "time, times, and a half," 1260 years,
ending A. D. 1798. 36," And the king shall do accord-
ing to his will; and he shall exal .. hiJDlelf and magnify
himBhlf above every god, and shall 8JI8&k marvellous
things apinlt the God of gods, and shall prosper till the
indipatiOl1 ,be aecomplished, for that that is determined
thall be tloDe."
Tile kitW' here spoken of is the sarno
as DaIli.el'. little horn,. Which came up among the ten
horna. It it the same that blasphemed the God of
Digitized by Google

LEC'rtru VI.
heaven. It is mystical Babylon.
Isa. xiv. 12-15;
Rev. xiii. 5, 6. The same Paul has described in his
Epistle, 2 Thess. ii.1--9; the same image beast which
we have been examining the history of; and one thing
is evident, that this beast will continue until the day
that God pours out his indilfllation upon a guilty world
in some form or other. 37," Neither· shall he regard
the God of his fathers, nor the desire of women, nor re-
gard any god; for he shall magnify himself above al\."
In this passage we have a plain description of Papacy;
they do not worship the same gods the Pagan" did-
"their father&."
And their clergy are . forbidden to
marry; the Pope calls himself the vicegerent of God, or
God on earth, having the keys of heaven, &c. 38," Bot
in his cstate shall he honor the god of forces; and a god
wlionfl his fathers knew not shall he honor with gold,
and silver, and precious stones, and pleasant things."
It is true that the Pope, for agee past, has had large
armies at his command, and always a body-guard to at-
tend him in his capital;· also, that they adorn their
_ pictures with gold, and silver, and preci0U9 atones, and
pleasant things, and that the gods they worship, such as
the images of Christ, apostles, and Virgin Mary, and
• canonized saints, were not known to Pagan worship-
pers. 39," Thus shall he do in the most strong hold.
with a strange god whom he shall acknowledge and in-
crease with glory; and he shall cause them to rule over
many, and shall divide the land fur /fain."
These patron saints, which the Pope divided among
the se.eral nations of the earth, and in almost every
family, each one having their patron saint to rule over
them, by the appointment of the PDPe, werl! strange gods
indeed; and rational beings might truly wonder when
they beheld th~ power of this last abomination over the
minds and judgments of mankind. And then, again, to
see the number of kingdoms, provinces, states, and" ter-
ritories, which the Pope has Rold to enrich his coffers,
without any more right or title to them than we have to
tho land in the moon, must convince everyone that the
description ,iven must apply to the church of Rome or
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SBCOlQ) COMma.,
the Pope, who claims to exercise this great authority by
his crazy title to St. Peter's chair.
'
We have now arrived to the end of the third division
of the angel's history; for the next verse tells us," t.md
at the time oftk nuJ.," meaninl1 the end of his power, to
tread on the church by his ciVil authority, or reign over
the kings of the earth, and to dispose of lands for gain
I have brought YOIl down, my kind hearer, through a
long lrophetic histo.., of more thaD 2200 years, and
lande you to tbe year A. D. 1798, when the Pope of
Rome lost his civil power. In the beginning of the
year 1798, on the 15th of February, a French general,
Berthier, entered Rome with a French army without-
resistance, deposed the Pope, abolished the Papal gov-
ernment, and erected the republic of Italy. The Pope,
being taken prisauer, was carried a prisoner by them '
first to Sienna in Tuscany, from thence to Florence,
afferwards to Grenoble, and then to Valence, in France,
wht're he died on the 19th of August, 1799, since which
time the Pope of Rome has exercised no more of his
former power over any of the kings in Europe, or the
Protestant church. We shall now close our lecture OD
this histol1 for the present, reserving the remainder of
Gabriel's mteresting history for another lecture.
-
Digitized by Google

LEOTURE VII.
----.
DANIEL ztl. 8.
And I beard, but I W1derslood not: tben said I., 0 my Lord,
wblll shall be the end of these tbiDgil
PaEvlottll to Daniel's uking the qaemon contained
in our text, he had been taught, u we have I188n in our
former lecture, not only the history of future events BB
they would succeed each other down to the end of the
world, but he bad the regular order of time speci-
fied in the duration of the little horn, "time, ti_, _II
Iuzlr, as in Daniel vii. 25, and xii. t. But be bad been
infonned of many evenfB wbich should transpire after
hls "time, times, tmd a IwJf" should be finished, II.nd not
having the length of the Pagan beast, or daily abomina-
tion, given to him at all, he could not tell or understand
whereabouts in his grand number of 2300 days, the
end of the civil power of the little horn, or Papal Rome,
.carried him: there was no rule given Daniel yet· by
which he could tell when or how long after the cruci-
fixion of the Ml!8siah before the daily sacrifice abomi-
nation would be tsken out of the way, and the power of
the little hom be established, and the abomination of
desolation set up. Be sure, Daniel had heard the whole
history dawn to the rI!IIurrection, &Ild had the whole vision
specified' in his 2300 days. But as he saw there were
evidently three divisions of the time after the crucifixion
or cutting off of the Messiah at the fulfilment of his
490 years, or 70 weeks, down to the end of his 1810
years, which would be the remainder of his total number
of 2300 years, after his 70 weeks should be fulfilled;
Digitized by Google

illS
ECO
OMI
and having only 1260 of those years accounted for by
the
gn 0
litt!
orn,
ing
hun
and
fifty
rs to
ppli
n the
gan
_ t, an
the
events which we are to attend to after the Papal beaat
10,it hi 'civil
er,- h refor the pro . y ofD niel's
say
n ou
t,"
I h
but
er8
not."
He understood not how this time was divided, and espe-
cially, how much time would be taken up in the last
divi'
or t
ngel'
'story
ginn'
with
40th
vers
the
I cha
, wh
our 1
ectu
ded,
and fimshing WIth the context of the 12th chapter, the
verse previous to our text. That this is the plain and
sig' ant
ing,
vide
om
t fo
our
tex
, the
el's
er to
niel's
stion
What
sh:1l1 be the end of these things ?';
And he said, Go
thy way, Daniel; for the words are closed up and sealed
till
time
the e
' tha
my
ion
osed,
the
ds ar
'she
d re"
red i
e roll
od's
word, they are BCakd, that is, made sure, unalterable,
will stand until every word h
. ts fulfil ent, h' II in
the
sha
acc
Hshe
not,
ome
pose,
tha
niel' pr phecy 18 Bealed, closed up, out of sight,
and cannot be nnderstood. This is not the way of God's
dear O's with
; fo 'fthis h
een
aoge'
ean-
ing
~ou
ave
to
el as
id t
hn in
simlla.r cfircumstances, Rev. x. 4, "Seal up those things,
and write them not." But it is the reverse; for he says
in
ext
, 10,
anr
be
ed,
made
wh
and t
; btl
WIC
shall
wick
, and
none of the wicked shall understand." None of the
wicked shall understand what? Why, the things before
spo
of-
niel's
on a
nstru
V
well
the
e wi
do
t fo
ceo
tainl,
your
exposition of the fOrmer text is correct, that it is hid, and
caDDot be known, they are obeying the command of the
aug
lose
and
the
s; an
rely
will
not
cond
ed fo
edie
.. Bu the WiSe shall
understand," ~ays the angel.
What shall the wise
nnderstand ? They h 11 und
tand
isio
r the
wo
efor
ken
he nn
at Ie
Bu
you
.. DlUlJel was commanded to seal up and close the words,
!J"

J.Ee'l'Uall "II.
so that they may never know them till the end, and the
wise understand them. How can these things be?" I
answer, These texts explain each other. Thereis a close
connection in the word of God which must always be
kept in view, and if our exposition of one contradicts
another of the same connection or of like import, we may
know there is a wrong in us.
Now, one thing is certain,
-
"all Scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is
profitable for doctrine, for reproof; for correction, for in·
struction in righteousness, that the man of God may be
perfect, thoroug-hly furnished unto all good works."
And" secret thmgs belong to God; but things revealed,
to us and our children." And when J see pretended
servants of God, men of great pretence to piety and
knowledge, disputing long and sharp on some metaphys-
ical point in theology which they nor their hearers can
never understand, and when tlley are asked to expla.in the
plain declarations of God, put it off, by saying, it is sealed
up, and we ought not to try to understand it, it makes me
think of LEsop's fable of the dog in the manger; of
Christ's reproof to the scribes and Pharisees, ""Voe unto
you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ylJ shut up
the kingdom of heaven against men; for ye neither go
iu yourselves, ~either suff~r ye t~elD that are !lntering to
go in;" and thIS passage m Dan~el, "The WIcked shall
do wicltedly; and none of the WIcked shall understand;
but the wise shall understand." You may depend upon
one thing, when you hear such declarations as the above
from the pUlpit, 1hat the speaker does not love his Bible
as well as he loves his own popularity, and studies to
support his faith, the popular writers and standard au-
thors of the day, more than the divine revelation of God.
But God is now trying his people; he is now giving them
a great rule to know their love for his word. If the
word of God is to tllCm foolishness, and they take more
delight in ilie popular writers of ilie day, iliey may de-
pend upon it they arc stumbling at that stlunbling-stone.
But ilie angel tells us iliat many shall be purified and
made white. 'l'his was good news to Daniel, and ought
to be so to us; for it is the declaration of God through
the medium of Gabriel, his messenger.
" And from the

Ie.
bIDe that the daily sacrifice shall be taken away, and the
abomination that maketh desolate set up, there shall be
a thousand two hundred and ninety days. Blessed is he
that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand three hundred
and five and thirty days: but go thou thy way till the
end be, for thou shalt rest, and stand in thy lot at the
end of the days."
Now Daniel had all he could ask for j
now he could under.tand the time, and the length, and
part of every division which tlle angel had I$"iven him in
his insb:uctlOn, so far as to fill up his viSIOn of 2300
years, (as we shall call them, having proved in a former
lecture that they ought to be so reckoned, and have been
so fulfilled.) He hll8 now learned that, to begin and
reckon back from the resurrection, which he well knew
would be 1810 years after Christ's crucifixion, lJe might
find out when the daily sacrifice abomination would be
taken away.
Therefore take 1335 years from 1810
years, would leave 475 years j and he could reckon from
the end of the 70 weeks, or 490 years, to the end of Pagan
Rome, would be 475, from tlJence to the time he should
stand in his lot, would be 13.'35 years. Then by adding
would m e the sum total of his whole vision 2300 years.
And now, le us suppose he wished to know when. the
abomination of desolation would end, and when it would
begin. He has only to take his number, one thousand
two hundred and ninety, as given him by his angel, from
his 1335, thus,-
Ilnd he finds that 45 years before the resurrection the
little horn would lose his civil power.
Now, lct him
takA his time, times, and a half, and add, sllY 1260 years
to 45 years, and he will find that the little horn began
his reign 1305 years before the resurrection, and 30
years after the daily sacrifice abomination was taken
away.
And now he is prepared tEl give his vision and

1M
LEGT1J&& VIL
the Instruction of the angel all their proper beariDp,
and prove it thus: -
1st. The seventy weeks or 490 yeam to the CruCI-
fixion of Christ,. • • • • • • • • • 490
From crucifucion to taking away daily abomination, 475
From taking away Pagan rites to the setting up
abomination of desolation, • • • • • •
From setting 'up Papal power (time, times, and a
half) to the end of his civil rei[D,
• • .]260
From the takin~ away the Papal ~civil rule to the
resurrectIOn,. • • • .'. • • • • •
Now add these to~er, and you will have the whole ~
years of Daniel s vision. Do you not, kind hearer,
see by this mode, and by these last numbers given him,
Daniel could learn every part and division of the whole
history down to the time when he should stand in his
lot? But now, for hill instruction, we will suppose Dan.
iel undenltOOd our mode of reckoning time; be might
have given it to us in this way: -" Too 70 weeks, or
490 years, will be accomplished A. D.33. The pagan
abomination will be taken 'away 475 years afterwards,
which will be A. D. 508. The papal abo~ination will be
set up 30 years after, A. D. 538, and will continue 1260
years, A. D. 1798. After this 45 years, I sh. stand in
my lot, and all that come forth to this res'urM'ction will
be blessed, A. D. 1843." "Blessed is h~at waiteth
and cometh to the thousand three hundred and five
and thirty days." Rev. xx. 6. " Blessed and holy is he
that hath part in the first resurrection."
Weare now prepared to give you the remainder of
the angel's instruction to Daniel, beginning where we
left off in our last lecture j and you will likewise now
take notice that it is the last division, and what we now
sh'1l1 read to you must aU take place in 45 years, be-
tween the ,ears 1798 and 184=3.
So that you may, al-
most all 0
you, judge for yourselves, DJIOn your on
observations, whether these things are 80 or not.
We therefore begin at the 40th verse of the 11th
chapter of Daniel, "and at the time of the end" of the
papal civil power. Now, another person hal obtained
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECOl'Q) COlllING.
10$
this civil power: this was Bonaparte, the ruler of the
French nation. This year of which we are now treat-
ing was the very year that the French destroyed thll
power of the pope, and Bonaparte began his extraordina-
ry career in conquest and authority j and it was evident,
by his success and fortune, that he was raised up by
God himself for some great and special purpose; and
through him, as an instrument, and by means of' the
French revolution, the shackles that had bound more
than half of Europe in bigotry, superstition, and tyranny,
were burst aBunder, and the inquisition and Papacy lost
their power and terror over the bodies and minds of
men. At this time, then, our prophecy begins, and Bo-
naparte is the person designated by the. pronouns he and
him in the prophecy: "And, at the time of the end, shall
the king qf the south push at him; and the king of the
north shall come against him like a whirlwind, with
chariots, and with horsemen, and with many ships."
This is a description of an alliance entered into by the
king of Sardinia, Italy, and Spain, in the south, and
Great Britain, in the north, for six years. England en-
gaged, in this treaty, to pay the king of Sardinia 200,000l.
per annum to furnish an army of horse and a large fleet.
The command of the fleet WaB given to Lord Nelson.
Various lVaB the success of the allies in the south.
Spain had to recede, and finally joined the French. The
king of Sardtnia had to leave his territories on the con-
tinent, and shut himself up in the island of Sardinia.
The king of Naples fled to the island of Sicily, after
making a vigorous push at the French, in November,
1798, and getting possession of Rome, while T,ord Nelson
took t.nd destroyed the French fleet, near Ue mouth of
the Nile, the same year. But the French soon retook
Italy; and this broke up this league, and the French
remained masters of almost all that belonlfed to the
Western Empire orRome, except Great BritaIn. "And
he shall enter into the countries, and shall overflbw, and
pass over," WaB literally accomplished. " He shall enter
also into the glorious land," (or land of delight, as it .
might have been translated.) This, J have no doubt,
means Italy. Bonaparte fought some of his most bri!o
0'0'"'' "Coogle

JOG
LECTUU TIL
liant battles in thie delbrhtsome country. The baula
of Mllft'ngo was fought, it' I mistake not, in June, 1800,
after crossing the Arps, an imJlll8'lLble' barrier between
France' and Italy, 88 it was snpJlCl6tld by his enemies.
" And many countries shall be overthrown." It is said
that Bonaparte conquered three kingdoms at the battlo
of Marengo. " But these shall esc~ out of his hands,
el'en Edom and MOIlb, and the chief of the children of
Ammon.·' Bonaparte, when he went into Egypt, calcu.
lated to march into the East Indies: be advanced into
Syria, where, after gaining some advantages, he re-
ceived a decisive check before 8t. John d'Acre, when
he was obliged to raise the siege, and retreat back to
Egypt with the Bbattered remains of his army. So the
country once inhabited by the Edomites, Moabite&, and
Ammonites, "escaped out of his banda." 42," He shall
stretch forth his hands also upon the countries; and the
land of Egypt shall Dot escape." " H.w" signi6es
JIOwer; and what country on the globe did not more or
less feel the effects of Boaaparte's power?
Egypt,
BUrely, did not escape; for all LG,wer Egypt was con·'
quered by his arms. 43, "But he shall have power
over the treasnres of gold, and of silver, and over all the
precious thinl!'8 of Egypt." Bonaparte, in Ilis conquest
of Egypt, leVIed contributions upon tbe inhabjtants 0('
the country sufficient to support and pay his troops, and
brought away much with him. "And the t.ybians and
Ethiop\ans shall be at bis steps." When be first went
into E2'Ypt, he landed hia army OIl the coast of what was
ancientIr called Lybia, and his last battle was fought in-
Upper Egypt -
what the ancients called Ethiopia. So
both of those places were at his steps, although neither
of them W88 fairly conquered, as was Egypt. 44," But
tidings 01lt of the east, and out of the north, shall trouble
him." This W88 what W88 at that time called the Holy
.!lUianee. This W88 composed. of most of the. kings on'
the north and east of France, which finally proved the
overthrow of the power of Bonaparte, and .the restora
tion of the Bourbons on the throne of France.
'rhe news of this alliance caused him much trouble,
and also his immediate return to France.. u TJ,\erefcn
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECO!fD COllll!fG.
ne shall go forth with great fury to destroy :LIld utterly
to make away many." Tllis is a plain description of
Bonaparte's campaign into Russia. He wellt forth with
an army of 400,000 men, with fury, in order to break up
the Holy Alliance. He did utterly destroy Moscow,
and laid de$olate the country through which he passed.
He made away with more than 200,000 of his own army,
besides the destruction of his enemies, say many thou-
sands more. Such a destruction of life and property in
one campaign was never known since the days of the
Persians and the Greeks. 45," And he shall plant the
tabernacle o~' his palace between the seas in the glorious
holy mountain," (or mountain of delight.) This was lit-
erally fulfilled, ill May 26, 1805, when Bonaparte was
crowned king of Italy at Milan, -
Italy lying between
two seas. To" plant the tabernacle of his palace"
would be to establish him as king. "Yet he shall come
to his end, and none shall help him." This closes the
history of one of the most powerful monarchs -
the most
ambitious and fortunate of warriors, and a man of un-
bounded sway -
that modern times had ever produced.
He had destroyed, perhaps, more than 3,000,000 livps j
he had dethroned more than on& half of the kings of
Europe j he had disJl()sed of kingdoms Rt his will j all
nations had been under the control of his decrees j he
had commanded more than two millions of veteran sol-
diers j the treasures of the four quarters of the globe lay
at his feet. "Yet he shall come to his end, and none
shall help him." How soon the tale of his end is told!
A breath, and his end is come j a vapor, and he is gone.
o God! the breath of kings is in thy hand j thy word
goeth forth, and it is done; thy decree passeth, and it
stands fast. "He shall come to his end, and none shall
help him." 'Vhere are those kings that courted his al-
liance? Where the twenty millions of French who
idolized him as a god? Where are those two millions
of veteran soldiers whose bodies had been used as ram-
parts to mount him to glory? 'Vhcre are his five breth-
ren .who sat in the seat.of kings by his power? Where
Ii; IllS mother, made a nch dowager by his mUDIficence?
Where, 0 where is the empress Maria Louisa, and the

lC111
LEeTOD Tn.
,oong IriDg or Italy? "And none' ahall help him."
YeBj Bonaparte W88 "by the British, after he had resigned
himself into their hands, carried a prisoner to the island
_ of St. Helena, in the Atlantic Ocean, where he died
in exile.
I' He shall come to his end, and none shall
help him."
By this history the kinga of the earth may learn, that
God can, with perfect eue, when the set time shall CODle,
break them and their kinl!'dom8 to pieoes, po that the wind
may carry them away lili:e cha&; that no place shall be
found for them.
I shall now examine the remainder of Gabriel's mes-
sage, contained in Daniel xii. 1, "And at that time shall
Michael stand up, the great Prince which standeth for
the children of thy people." Michael, in this pa81l1age,
must mean ChrISt; he is the great Prince, and Prince
of princes.
The time here spoken of is when Bonaparte shan
come to his end, and none to help him. This W88 in
the latter part of the year A. D~ 1815. There are-two
things for which Christ 8ttJfUlI up for his people to ac-
complish; one is their faith, ana the other their judg-
ment.Ier. iii.]3. Now, it is evident he did not then
stand up in judgment; therefore I shall choose the
former, that he stood up to plead the cause of his
people, to restrain backsliderS, and to add to the church
of God many who should be saved. And blessed be
hie holy name, he accomplished his purpose; for in the
years 1816, 17, 18, more people were converted to the
faith of Ieslls than had been for thirty years before.
Almost, and I know not but every town in these states
W88 visited with a shower of mercy, and hundreds and
thollsands, yea, tens of thousands, were bom into the
il!visible kingdom of the dear Redeemer, and their
names recorded' among the members of the church of
the first born. This h88 lasted in a great measure for
20 years, and baa spread over a large share of the
Christian world; even the islands of the sea have lifted
up their voices to God, and the wilderness h3s bloomed
like the rose, and the heathen have seen of his salva-
tion. The grace of God has dilltilled upon us like the
Digitized by Google

tnorning dew, and like showers upon a thirsty soil.
Surely this must be by the power of Michael, the
great Prince of the covenant. "And there shall be a
time of trouble, such as there never was since there
was a nation, even to that same time." This time of
trouble is yet in futurity; but is hanging, as it were,
over our heads, ready to break upon us in tenfold
vengeance, when the angel of the gospel, who is now'
flying throu~h the midst of henven, shall seal the last
cbild of GOd in their foreheads. And when the four
angels, who arc now holding the four winds, that it
blow not on the sea nor on the land, sball cease their
holdin~; when the angel, standing on the sea and land,
shall lift his hand to heaven and swear by him that
liveth forever and ever, that time shall be no longer, or,
as it might, nnd, perhaps, ought to have, been translated,
"that there should be no longer delay;" that is, God
would wait no longer for repentance, rio longer to be
gracious; but his spirit would take its flight from the
world, and the grace of' God would cease to restrain
men. He that is filthy will be filthy still. Mankind
will, for a short season, give loose to all the corrupt
passions of the human heart.
No laws, human or
divine, will be regarded; all authority will be trampled
under foot; anarchy will be the order of governments,
and confusion fill the world with horror and despair.
Murder, treason, and crime, will be common law, and
division and disunion the only bond of fellow~h i p.
Christians will be persecuted unto death, and dens and
caves of the earth will be their retreat.
All things
which are not eternal will be shaken to pieces, that
that which cannot be shaken may remain. And this, if
I am right in my calculations, will begin on or before
A. D. 1839.
"And at that time thy people shall be
delivered, every one that ~hall be found written in the
book."
Now is come salvation indeed.
The people
of God are now to be delivered from outward foes and
inbred lusts, from the corMlptions of the grave and the
vileness of the flesh.
Everyone, the poor and despised
child of God, will th.en be delivered w ben he makes up
his jewels. " And !Dany of them that sleep in the dust

LECTuaa VII.
of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and
some to shame and everlasting contempt." This verse
brinO's us down to the re8urrection of the dead, when
the dust will give up the bodies of the saints, and they
shall awake to everlasting life, when death shall be
finally conquered, and the grave re~ign up her captive
saints to victory and glory. The llDO'el also mentiol19
the resurrection of the wicked, and speaks of their
sh1.me and everlasting contempt. He d wells not in
detail on this second resurrection, as thnugh it was too
painful for thought, yet tells enough to let the wiclwd
unbeliever knmv his awful doom~and is silent. "And
they that be wise shal1 shine as the brightness of the
firmament; and they that turn many to righteousness
as the stars forever and ever." This verse needs no
comment; it is a beautiful figure of the righteous in
glory, and the durability of that happiness in the in-
visible and immortal kingdom of God. "But thou, 0
Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, even to
the time of the end." Some have taken occasion, from
these words, to say, that this prophecy was to be sbut
up and sealed, that none uUll"ht understand It until the
end. If it was so, why give It to Daniel at all ?
Why
note it in the Scripture of tmth? Why give to U3 the
samfJ instruction which made Daniel understand wh'lt
should befall the people of God in the latter d:lY?
But
the plain and obvious meaning of the first part of this
verse is, But thou, 0 Daniel, close up your prophecy,
and set your seal to the truth of it, for at "the time of
the end m:lny shall run to and fro;" that is, at the tinIe
of the end the means of travel would be greatly ex-
tended, so that many would travel into all parts of the
earth, and would increase in knowledge of places, men,
and things. "And knowledge shall be increased." Can
any prophecy be more literally fulfilled tha n this? The
~ncrease of ~vel, and the means of conveyance, and the
Improveme'!t In the arts and sciences at the present day,
have astoDlshed the projectors themselves.
But if it
should mean holy things, then look at the great number
of missionaries sent into all parts of our world. There
are but few natiQns, civilized or barbarous, Christian or
"'. \

CURIST'S 8BCOff» COIlUl'fG.
11)
hod then, but what are visited by tile professed ministers
of Christ, and knowledge of the word of God has in-
creased. And within thirty years, the Bible has been
translated into one hundred and fifty languages, more
than three times the numbet of all languages that had
received a translation during 1800 years before. Mil·
lions of copies of the Bible have been circulated withiu
the thirty years past, where thousands only bad been
circulated before. "Then I, Dalliel, looked, lind be-
hold, there stood otiler two, the one on this side of the
bank of the river, and tile other on tilat side of tile bank
of the river, and said to the man clothed in linen, which
Was upon the waters of the river, How long shall it be
to the end of these wonders?" Here Daniel saw the
two holy ones inquiring of the man clothed in linen,
which stood upon the waters of the river. This man is
the same as Michael standing up for the children ef tily
people. The reason I assign is, he is clothed in linen,
which shows he is the high priest for the people of
God. It is the same afigel that John de.scribes, Rev.
x. l~. This angel is represented as being the mes-
senger of the· coven:mt, by having a rainbow on his head.
He was clotiled with a cloud pure and white like linen.
He, too, had a little book open, showing what he should
do, agreeing with ollr explanation, spreading the gospel
for the last time through the world, standing one
foot on the sea, and the other on the earth, to keep
down tile power of anti-Christ, who sits on many waters
Rev. xvii. 1,15, and the power of the kings of the earth,
until the whole elect should be sealed. See Rev. vii.
1-3. And that this Angel is the Mediator is evident.
And now he closes up tile mediatorial kingdom, when
he says, Rev. x. 6, "That there. should be time no
longer," or, as some translate it, that there slwuld be no
longer delay, which must of course have one of two
meanings-either God will no longer delay his judg-
ment, or he will no lon~er wait to be gracious. See
next verse, and 2 Peter iii. 9. Take either one or both
positions, !lnd it proves my object, that a part of the
45 years, the history of which we are now considering,
is taken up in spreading the gospel, and bringing tho

•
Jut TeftlDAnt intn (,hri"'~s rot.:!. ":Por obi g' tp'1 -',r s
Kingdom snail be preached in all the world as a witol""!
nt- a" n ti .J8, a j .lien bda\. tile end come;" Matt.
-xi. J". B
"Ie lu;ti n, H w ',0 J) _le e j
f
these wonde ... ? IDPsns tn the nd of ~ r . g:-
0'" t' e
uP""'t, which the world wondered alter.
Rev: xiii. !l,
-th Vl 1M, .. _\ 1 _ L a.l _Ie m n clou\eu in lIDen,
-h' h -va- u-o tlr "" tf 8 f ''lIe ,j, r, rll n 'Ie lie 1
up nis right hand and his leil btand uot'} Ma n" ""'1
• 0.6U ;fe shows. us pUliniy, that It is tile same a~gel
~h h 01
I W n te.
I. _-
• A...d..he Sll .. J6 tirue
is
indicst~ in Pev 'n 'on II[" i
."a 'el
·18
..)sDJel it IS ID the last 45 rears and itt ~ .... elatiM
,DI"ed t.y l"ri. euID!; tlle bme "'nen toe 'lI1)"It8I'Y ott
'10" sl--l11 '>0 'io' h I, 11 'la h d ,8
LJO~..re_ t./fl
servants, the nro'lhet8, tb
'1"'10' -ro-'1e-ie-'" 11"'1 I )
ccoml'lisdeu. "And sware by him that IivAth ,fo!"'Vl"r,
",a it h 'I I 'r ti .. le, iJ .. .es, and a halt.
l'lulI'"
tlJe "8rne 1 n"'1h"" 'rr
f~v
i
ran'el ii 2: , 'Ii I
IS tnere glVen 88 the reign of tt... }it1Jo oo--n. It' is alf"'l
_Ie
8.1 •• e m w ... ic .. is gIven in Rev. xi.... Fonr-two
-'0 ilr (I're y ar 8J I
hl.'f,) ;coiv tL. LlI~ OlvJ..J
be t70dden umier f<",t.
} 18 ,.'Ie 'JII.-e ""Dr -, i f ve, J
Aiev. XI. a, for the two witn_as to nronhety ~
iq
w:,clt.;h, lWO daJs.
j~fl6, }..ev. Xli. U, ..... JbI- the
hll:Jr in tlr ,-'ld m l!I!. a J,
g in. in Ii 'v. xi . _,
where the anti-r.brilltip1\ ~aot, bad t,is -lei g-1er' l-1I'\-~
.J con 101Ie fotty-two months.
J\ll willie tJmfls ended in
' ...... -7!r,
e Jla •. , ........ ft. r ~.l; w .. en the ..u
VCIl~ heg-n t') p~c 'Il}"'isL tt tr On ! 1 ii ') -: Iu e' c
atten.bnll'to In tbis lecture. "And-witen ~e shall "a
cc mrlu ... el.. to 8Cattbr tile power ot the holy {leople,
11 "'1e-, (' in s ba
o
, t
f ~s .eC.
.
This bringS U" dow tel'
U tr1., nr' gi'''e! !IS III th r
.. nJNrt..Dt ana conClUSive si~n bv which .... e ma" I>no'"
'e 'iv 0
tI-, e e f •. nWn • .g .hE; prupbtICles, ana OD
~e +hT"llt- Id of;h ill n
a ° II 1 «9Lal .nUl. L_t
De wise, then. and Sf'lCure an ;1Itere .... i
tLe' nIr ri" .n
IlK, g !.he jU8t, .hat Wnen we fruI on earth, we rna. be
, !C . vII' tel v l! tiL.; _aL;a or... I--• .sp..."- t-..r .-
who love r./l';tt

CHRll1'r's DECOYD COMING.
Bllt the last sign," the scattering of the holy people;"
a part of the perilous times. How are they to be scat-
ered? I answer, By the errors of the anti-Christian
abomination, and the 10 heres and 10 theres, by dividing
the people of God into parties, divisions and subdivisions.
And methinks I hear you say, "Surely these things
are already accomplished."
Yes, you are right, in part,
but not to its extent; the sects are all divided now, bllt
not crumbltJd to pieces j some are subdivided, but not
scattered. The time is soon coming when father will
be against the son, and son against the father.
YeR, the
sects are all divided now. Presbyterians are divided
into Old and New Sl!hool, and then again into Perfec-
tionists.
CO~$'regationalists are divided between Or-
thodox and unitarian, old and new measures, Union-
ists, &c. Methodist:! arc divided between Episcopal
and Protestant. Baptists are divided between old and
new measures, Antimasons, Campbellites, open and
close communion, &c. &c. Quakers are divided be-
tween Orthodox and Hicksites j and thus might we go
on and name the divisions and subdivisions of all sects
who have tallen Christ for their captain.
And now let me sum up in short what we have proved
to you in this discour~e. And firEt, I showed the length
of time our history would take up, viz., 4:3 years. Dy
the numbers given in Dani!,l xii. 11-13, his 1200 days,
beginning when the ten kmgB, represented by .the ten
toes in Nebuchadnezzar's dream, and ten horns ill Dan-
iel's vision, should be converted to the Christian faith,
and the daily sacrifice abomination taken out of the
way, viz, A. D. 508, which would end us in 1798, when
the Pupe lost bis power to reign over the kin!!,s and
trample on the holy people, and the !l.bominatlOn of
desolation ceased his civil reign, by being deprived 01
hiB civil power by Bonaparte. I then showed you that
the number 1335 days, beginning at the same time as
the 1290 days, viz. A. D. 508, would end in 1843, at the
resurrection, for Daniel would stand in his lot at the end
of these days. And you have undoubtedly noticed that
this brought us to the same year that Darnel's whole
number, 2300, brought us, which is fOlty-five years, the
10 •

LECTUaE Vo.
difference between the two numbers, 1290 and 1335. J
then began at Daniel xi. 40, and gave you the history of
Bonaparte, his wonderful career of conquest and power,
and his final end. I then gave you the history of Michael
standing up, and the reformation that followed in the
years 1815, 16,17, even down to the present time.
Then the unfulfilled prophecy which must come Boon
upon us, the troublous times. Next we came to the
time of the deliverance of the people of God, every
one that sleep in the dust of the earth, and the resurrec-
tion. Then the angel gave us a few signs which would
happen in the course of this time, such as the running
to and fro, the increase of knowledge, the nations being
restrained from preventing the gospel being preached,
and scattering the power of the holy people, all which
you have many of you witnessed, lind can judge for
yourselves whether these things are so.
I shall now leave you for the present; and may you
reflect candidly and seriously on the subject; for many
of you who are now on the earth may live to witness
this fulfilment j and if unprepared then, with what regret
will you look back on lour present opportunity, and
wish you had improve
these precious moments for
the salvation of your souls, and for the glory of God!
Be wise, 0 ye inhabitants of the earth, for the Lord
Will come and will not tarry, and the day of vengeance
will overtake you as a thief in the night; "but the wise
Ilhall understand."

LECTURE VIII.
nv. YlIt.1s.
And ) beheld and beard an u(81 flying through the midst 01
heaven, lal'ing, with a loud VOice, Woe, woe, woe, to tile in·
habitants of the "~l_ by reason of the other voices of the tnua·
pet of the three IUIrm which are yet 10 sound.
IN prophetical scripture, the BOUnding of tmmpetJJ ill
always used to denote the downfall of sorne empire, na-
tion, or place, or some dreadful battle, which may decide
the fate of empirel, nations, or places. At the fall of
J erieho, the trumpet WBII. the instrument, in the hands
of the priest of the mighty God of Jacoh, which cast
down _her walls, destroyed the city, and a C1lI'8e pro-
nounced agkinst the man that should ever bni1«1 IIp her
1Valls again. Again, the trumpet was the instrument by
which Gideon put to flight the armies of the aliens.
And the prophet Amos says," Shall a trumpet be blown
in the city, and the people not be afraid?" Therefore
we may :reasonably conclude that a trumpet is the
harbinger of destructive wars, and the diasOlution Of
empires, tltateB; or the· earth, as the case may be. The
seven trumpets mentioned in Revelation, the three •
Jut of which are mentioned in our text, indicate tile
final overthrow of the powers spoken flf in the prophecy.
The four first had their accomplishment in the destruc-
tion of the Jews and their dispersion, in the fall of im-
perial Rome, in the overthrow of the 'Asiatic kingdom,
and ,in the taking away of Pagan rites and cere-
momes.
The last three trumpets Will claim our attention in
•
Digitized by Google

Uo
LECTURE VIII.
this discourse; the first four having their accomplish-
ment under Rome Pagan; to the last three under Romt
Papal.
These t.hree trumpets and three woes are a
description of' the judgments that God has Bent and will
send on this Papal beast, the abomination of the whole
earth.
Therefore we see the propriety of the language
of our text, " Woe, woe, woe, to the inhabitants of the
earth," meaning the worshippers of this Papal beast, tho
followers of this abomination. The fifth trumpet alludes
to the rise of the Turkish empire under Ottoman, at the
downfall of the Saracens. Ottoman uniting under his
government the four contending nations of l\1ahometans,
which had long contended for the power during the
reign of the Saracen empire, viz., the Saracens, Tartars,
Arabs, and Turks. These; all being by profession Ma-
home tans, were ready to follow any daring leader to
conquer and drive out from Asia (and even make excur-
sion into Europe) all who professed the Christian fl\ith.
They, having embraced the errors of that fallen star,
Mahomet, whose principles were promulgated by con-
quest and the sword, became one and perhaps the only
barrier to tht! spread of the Papal doctrine and power in
the eJstern world. Here the Roman Church had long
held a powerful sway over the minds and consciences of
the Christian or Greek church in the east, by the aid of the
eastern emperor at Constantinople. But the Turks or
Ottomans, whom the Lord suffered to rise up in llithynia,
on or near the head waters of the Euphrates, as a scourge
against this Papal abomination, now became 11 check to
the Roman power; and from this time we may reason-
ably date the declension of Papal authority. Therefore
on the sounding of the fifth trumpet, Rome Papal began
to show a wealmess which in every sllcceeding age has
been more and more manifested, until her civil power
h:1I5 crumbled to ruin, and her ecclesillstical assumptions
must oink, at the sounding of the seventh trump, to rise
no more forever.
La the description of these trumpet:; we shall be able
to apply the prophecy, as the writer believes, to those
events designed by the vision wh;ch John saw.
Rev. ix. 1. "And the fifth angel sounded, and I &IlW
•
)igitize( byGoogle

CHRIST'S 5ECOND COMING.
n star fall from heaven unto the earth; and to him was
given the key of the bottomless pit." After the down-
fall of Pagan Rome, and the rise of the anti-Christian
abomination, Mahomet promulgated a religion which
evidently came from the bottomless pit; for it fostered
all the wicked passions of the human heart, such as war,
murder, slavery, and lust.
2d verse, "And he opened the bottomless pit, and
there arose a smoke out of the pit as the smoke of a
great furnace; and the sun and the air was darkened by
reason of the smoke of the pit." The figures used in
this text are, the bottomless pit, which denote the theo-
ries of men or devils, that have no foundation in the
word of God. Sm.olu denotes the errors from such doc-
trine, which serve to blind the eyes of men, that they
cannot see the truth. .I1s the 81/l.olu of a great jUTnUCll
show s the great extent or effect of tliis error over the
world.
7'he Sttll denotes the gospel, which is the great
luminary of the moral world
The air denotes the
moral influence on the mind, whICh is commonly called
piety.
As air supports or gives to the lungs animation
III the physical world, so does the piety of the heart to
the moral.
This, then, is the true sentiment of this passage. And
by reason of the Mahometan errors which would be be-
lieved or followed by a great multitude, the ~ospel and
the pious influence of the same would be III a great
meal:!lIre hid or lost to the world.
3d verse, " And there came out of the smoke locusts
upon the earth; and unto theijl was given power, as the
scorpions of the earth have power." By these locusts I
understand armies. See Joel, 1st and 2d chapters.
Therefore I should read this text thus: And there came
out from these Mahometan followers large armies, which
should have great power to execute the judgments of
God on this anti-Christian beast, which had filled the
earth with her abominations.
4th verse, "And it was commanded them that they
sh/mld not hurt the grass of the earth, neither any green
thing, neither any tree, but only those men which have
not the seal of G~ in their foreheads." By grass, grlltfl

t.I!CTUU VIII.
things, and trus, Ps. lxxii. 16, Hosea xiv. 8, I under-
stand the true church, or people of God.
By those men
hnving not the seni qf God, &c., I understand the anti-
Christian church, or Papal Rome. Then this would be
the sense: And it was commanded them that they
s110uld not hurt the trU!! church, or people of God, but
only the anti-Christian beast, or powers subject to her.
5th ver.e, " And to them it was &"iven that they should
not kill them, but that they ShOUld be tormented fi,e
months; and their' torment was as the torme{1t of a
scorpion, wijen he striketh a man." To kill is to de-
stroy. Five months is in prophecy 150 yen.rs.
To lor-
ment as a sc01pion, &c., is to make sudden incursions
and irruptions into the country, &c. Then this is the
sentiment to me conveyed in the text: And the Turkish
armies would not have power to destroy the Papal pow-
ers for 150 years, but· would make sudden and quick
incursions into their territories, and harass and perplex
the nations under the Papal control.
6th verse, " And in those days shaD men seek death,
and shall not find it; and shall desire to die, and death
shall Ilee from them." About this time the Greek
church, in Constantinople, was so harassed by the Pa-
pal authority, that it gave rise to n saying among them,
that they "had rather see the Turkish turban on the
throne of the Eastern Empire, thall the Pope's tiara."
And anyone who has read the history of the 14th cen-
turyl. will see that this text wp.s literally accomplished.
7tl1 verse, "And the shapes of the locusts were like
unto horses prepared unt<> battle; and on their heads
were, as it were, crowns like gold, and their faces were
as the faces of n1en."
In this verse we hav,!! a descrip-
tion of the Turkish armies. In the first place they are
represented as being all horsemen. 'l'his was true with
the Turks, and no other kingdom since Christ's time,
that we have any tmowledge of, whose armies were a11
horsemen. They wore on thpir heads yellow turbans,
which can only apply to the Turks, looking like crowns
of gold.
8th verse, " And they had hair as the hair of "'omen,
and their teeth were as the teeth of lions." They wora ,
- O;g; "ec Or Coogle

CHRIST'S SECOND COMING.
long hair attached to their turbans, and they fought with
javelins like the teeth of lions.
Vth verse, "And they had breastplates, as it were
breastplates of iron; and the sound of their wings was
as the sound of chariots of many horses running to bat-
tle." By their breastplates I understand shields, which
the Turks carried in their battles; and history tells us
that when they charged an enemy, they made a noise
upon them like the noise of chariot wheels.
1 Oth verse, "And they had tails like unto scorpions,
8 nd tbere were stings in their tails; and their power was
to hurt men five months." The Turkish horsemen had
each a cimeter which hung in a scabbarJ at their waist,
that they used in close combat after they had discharged
their javelins, with which they were very expert, sever-
ing a man's or even a horse'~ head at a blow. And
from the time that the Ottoman power or Turkish em-
pu'e wus firstestn.blished in Bithynia, until the downfall
of the Greek or Eastern Empire, when the Turks took
Constantinople, was five prophetic ;nonths, or one hun-
dred and fifty years,
11th verse, " And they h:ld a king over them, which is
the angel of the bottomless pit, whose name in the lIe-
brew ton~ue is Abaddon, but in the Greek tongue hath
his name Apollyon." The 'furkish government had a
kinO' when they began, as before mentioned, and he was
a follower of the Mahometan faith, and truly a servant
or me$senger of this doctrine of the bottomless pit. The
name of thnir first king, who is styled in history the foun-
der of the Turkish empire, was Othoman or Oltoman,
from whom the empire look its name, and has been call-
ed to this day the Ottoman empire. And great has been
the destruction which this governm<'nt has executed upLn
the world; and well may thi!! empire be styled Destroyer,
in prophecy the signification of Abaddon or Apollyon.
12th verse, " One woe is past; and behold, there come
two woes more hereafter." This closes the fiflh trumpet
and the first woe, commencing at the foundation of the
Turkish empire in Bithynia, in the yestr A. D. 12<J8, and
lasting five prophetic months, or 150 years, which carries
us down to the year A. D. 1448. When we take into

110.
LII:CWVU VOL
v.i.w tbe oIIjectand deeip orGocl in HDding thiajudg-
ment or scourge upon the men who have not t.he seal or
God on their tOreheads; the anti-Christian beast, who
profess to be Christians, but are not; when we compare
the history of those times with the prophecy-we have
beeD examining, and the evenlll which have transpired
conceruing the Ottoman empire, with the deSCriptive
character given of them ill this prophecY,-wecannot, 1
think, hesitate Cor a moment to apply the fulfilment uf
this trumpet and woe, to these eveatI, time, and pI4ce; and
must be led to admire the agreement between the proph-
ecy and fulfilment, and to &elieve tIlis book of Revela-
tion to be indited by the unerring wisdom of the Divine
Spirit; for no human forethought could have 50 exactly
described these events, dress, manners, custoDIII, and
mode of warfare 1200 years beforehand, except the wi:r
dom of God had assisted him. And if these tbiilgs are
revealed by God himself unto us, surely no one will dare
to say that it is non-essential whether we believe this
part of the revealed will of God or not. Shall God
spnak and man disregard it? Forbid it, 0 Fatber; and
let ua have "ears to hear what the Spirit &aith to the
churches."
We shall now follow the revelation of God into the
sixth trumpet and second woe; and may we have the
Spirit of God to assist U8 and lead our miuds into tlie
truth of these things.
13th vene, " And tbe sixth angel lOunded, and I heard
a voice from the four horns of the gohien altar which is
befure God," 14t.h verse, "Saying to the sixth angel
which had the trumpet, Loose the four angels which are
bound in the great river Euphrates." By the sounding
of the trumpet, I understand the commencing of those
judgmentIJ which were to be poured out lipan the earth
nuder this trumpet; and by the "voice from the four
horns oft.he golden altar," the agreement of all the pow-
ers of heaven alld earth to execute the design of God in
this thing. By loosing the four angels which are bound
in the jrreat river Euphrates, I understand that God was
now about to suffer tho four principal I18.tions of whieh
~e Ottoman empire wu compelled, which had in vam
Digitized by Google

caaIST'. SJ:COJirD COIdIfG.
attempted to subdue the Eastern Empire at Constantino-
\ plet and made- but little progress in conquering Europe,
now to take Constantinople, and to overrun and subdue
one third part of EUrope, which was the fact about the
middle of the fifteenth century.
15th verse, "And the four Ilngels were loosed, which
were prepared for an hour, and a duy, and a month, and
a year, to slay the third part of men." The four angels,
we may reasonably conclude, are a representation of the
four nations that had embraced the Mahometan religion,
and were now under the control of the Ottoman, viz.,
Turks, Tartars, Arabs, and Saracens. The time ex-
pressed in the last-mentioned verse is 391 years und J5
days. " To slay the third part of men," is to destroy and
conquer one third part of the governments or kingdoms
of which the Papal beast had the control, which was true
in the enlt.
16th verse, "And the number of the army of the horse-
men was two bundred thousand tbousand; and I heard
the number of them." In this verse the precise number
of the army of horsemen is given, for John te118 us "he
heard the number of them." And if we should under-
stand the prophet to mean, as some suppose he does,
200,000, multiplied by a ]000, then the sum total would
be 200,000,000, which would be more men Umn were
ever on our earth at one time capable of bearing arms;
therefore I bel ieve this is not the menning of the prophet,
heither do I think that it was a succession of armies dur-
ing the whole period of' 391 years, making the sum total
of'200,OOO,OOO, for this, too, would be incredible; for lil-
lowing a standing army of 15,385,OCO to be recruited
every 30 years, it would only make the two hundrl'd
millions j and this sum would be more than five timee the
number of all the alandinl!' armies in the known world.
And from these consideratIOns I have for myself given
this construction, that the prophet John heard the num-
ber of 200,000 repented, or twice told, which would
make an army of' 400,000 horsemen; and this would not
be incredible. And what is to me strong ~roor of the
fact is, that the history informs us that Mahomet IT. came
against Constantinople about the year A. D. 1450, with

LECTURE n:r.
nn army of 400,000· horsemen, and afLer a long siege I
took tl.e city in the year 1453, and destroyed the East-
ern Empire, which had stood more than ten centuries
from its found"tion by Constantine.
17th verse: "And thus I saw th'e horses in the vision,
and them that sut on them, having breastplates of fire,
and of jacinth and brimstone; and the heads of the
horses were as the heads of lions, and out of their
mouths issued fire, amI smoke, and brimstone." 18th
verse, "By these three was the third part of men killed,
by the fire, and by the smoke, and by the brimstone,
which issued out of their mouths." 19th verse, "For
their power is in their month, and in their tails; for their
tails were like unto serpents, and had heads, and with
tbem they do hurt." In these verses which we have
now read, we are plainly informed that it was an army
of horses, and men on them, which John saw in the vis-
ion.
And the inlplements and manner of fighting, such
as the trupping of their horses, and Uwcnstruments of-
fensive and defenSIVe, gunpowder and guns, are as ex-
actly described as any p'.lrson could describe it without
knowing the name by which we describe it at the pres-
ent day. Fire, smoke, and brimstone, would be the
most visible component parts of gunpowder. Fire and
smoke we should see, and brimstone we should ~melL
And who ever saw an army of h0rsemen engaged in an
action but would think of John's description," out of
th ~ ir mouths issued fire, and smoke, and brim.tone," and
in the breech of the guns were bullets, "like heads,
and with these they do hurt"? Every part of this de-
scription i. exactly applicable to an army of hors ~men
with fire-arms; and what is equally strong in the evi-
tlence is, that guns and fire-arms were invented but a
short time previou3 to this trump-sounding, alld the
Turks claimed the honor (if honor it can be caUed) of
inventing gunpowder and guns; and it is equally evi-
dent by the history that guns were first used by the
Turks at tpe takin.,. of Constanti'nople, they h ving one
single cannon that took 70 yoke of oxen to draw it at
the siege, as says Dr. Gill on this passage .
• Some authors say Y O,OOO.
)i~itiZO!( byGoogle

CHaIST's 8&C0!tD COION8.
20th verse, "And the rest of the men which were
not killed by these plagues yet rcpented not of the
works of their hands, that they should not worship dev-
ils, and idols of gold, and silver, and brass, and stone,
and of wood, which neither can s?e, nor hear, nor walk."
21st verse, "Neither repented they of their murders,
nor of thcir sorceries, nor of their fornication, nor of
thcir thefts." In these verses, we have the character
of the pcrsons or government on whose account these
plagues were sent. In the first place, they are repre-
sented as idolaters, as worshipping devils, idols of gold,
&c., full of mqrder, sorceries, fornication, and theft.
This exactly agrees with the description John has given
of the "woman sitting on the scarlet-colored beast, full
of names of blasphemy, having seven heads ana tcn
horns. And the woman was arrayed in purple and 8car-
let color, and decked with goltl, and precious stones, and
pcarls, having a golden cup in her hand full of abomina-
tions and filthiness of her fornication.
And upon her
forchead was a name written, Mysterlj, Babylon the
Great, the Mother oj Harlots, mul the aboillinatioM oj tht(
earth." So we see that the fifth and sixtll trumpets, and
the two first woes, were sent as the judgments of God
upon this anti-Christian beast, and clearly shows the
decline of tlle power wbich she had exercised over the
kinO"s of the earth and the people of God for more than
eight centuries, to the commehcing of the sixth trumpet,
wilen the Turks were let loose upon those kingdoms un-
der the control of Papacy, conquered all Asia and about
one third part of Europe, and were in the end the means
of opening the eyes of many of the inhabitants of the
world to see that the Pope's pretension of being the vice-
gerent of God was not well founded; for, if he could
not foresee and resist the inroads of the Turks, -
tlmt
infidel nation, -
surely he could not perform those great
miracles which he pretended to perform in order to sup-
port his ecclesiastical and civil power: and individuals,
and afterwards nations, began to disregard his authority,
excommunications, and bulls, until his power is now but
a little more than a bishop of Rome.
Here we see the wonder-working ways of our God,

1M
r&CTIJ'U VIII.
who, in 1ri8dom and providence, lUft'eJ'8 the corrupt and
infidel nationl of the earth to pull down each other, and
to bring about hil purposes and designs, and will event-
ually deltroT 1111 the kingdoll1l of the earth, by luch
means, and In !!uch ways, aI the prophets have foretold;
and whoever lives until the year 1839' will _
the final
dilllolution of the Turkish empire, for then the sixth
.rumpet will have finished its sounding, which, if 1 am
correct, will be the final overthrow of the Ottoman
power. And then will the seventh trump and lut woe
begin, under which the kingdoll1l of the earth and the
anti-Christian beast will be destroyed, the POWeJ'8 of'
darknell chained,- the world clellDlled, and the church
purified.
.
.
See the 10th chapter of Revelation, 5th, 6th, and 7~
ve-, .. And the angel which I IIIlW stand upon the sea
and upon the earth lifted up his hand to heaven."
Thil
is the angel of the covenant, the great Mediator. See
the finIt veJ'8e, .. And I laW loother misrhty ancel come
down from heaven, c1othod with a clouJ."
So 11 Christ
to come in the clouds with power and great glory •
.. And a rainbow WaI upon liis head."
This show.'
plainly that it is Christ; for the' rainbow is a token of
the covenant. .. And his face Wal aI it were the Bun."
The same as when he was transfigured, Matt. xvii. 2,
.. And his feet as pillara of fire."
See Rev. i. 15, .. Hill
feet like unto fine bl'llllll, as if they burned in a furnace."
Surely this mOlt be Christ. .. And he had in mil hand
a little book open." None could open the book but the
lion of the tribe of Judah -llnother Itrong proof that
the angel in Rev. x. 5 il Christ. And who but Christ
could stand upon the sea and, upon the earth, and lift
"up his hand to heaven, and swear by Him that liveth
forever and ever, who created heaven and the things
that therein are, and the sea and the things which are
therein, that there should be time no longer"? that is,
gospel or mediatorial time should cease. No more time
for mercy; DO more Spirit to strive with you, sinner; DO
, more means of grace j no more repentance unto life; no
more hopes ofheavenj for Jesus hal sworn by himse~
lMIcause he could swear by DO greater, that your day ot'
Digitized by Google

CBJUST'. a':COD COJIING.
probation" should be DO l~." FOI'" be tJ.t iI filthJ
shall be filthy still." The Bridegroom haa come, andahut
to the door. I know, sinner, you wi!1 then cry, Lord, Lord,
open unto us ; but he will aay unto you, Depart from
me, ye workers of iniquity, for 1 know you not: when I
called to you to open the door of your heart.!, that 1 might
come in and sup with you, ye refused; when I Itretched
out my arm all the long day of the gospel, ye regardod
it not; I wilJ now laugh at your calamity, and mock
when your fear cometh. Then wiIJ the angel, flying
through the mid,t of heaven, cry, with a IQlld voice,
Woe, woe, woe to the inhabitants of the earth; for,
when'the last woe is pronounced, and "in the days of
the voice of the seventh angel, when he shall begin to
BOund, the mystery of God should be finished, as he hath
declared to his servants the prophets." "The second woe
i8 past, and behold the third woe cometh quickly. And
the !leventh angel sounded; and there wore great voices
in heaven, sayiug, l'he kingdoms of this world are be-
come the kingdomi of our Lord and of his Christ, and
he ehall reign forever and ever," Rev. xi. 14, 15. By
these passages we learn that, when' the eixth trumpet
hu done BOunding, when the second woe is past, then
the third woe come3 quickly. The seventh trump be-
giD3 to eound ;. the mystery of God is finished -
all that
rlas been spoken by the prophets, that is, all that con-
cerns the kingdom of Christ; 'for then will be brought
to paM the saying, Death is swallowed up in victory;
for, when the last trumpet shall sound, the dead in
Christ ehall be raised: "For as in Adam all died, even
so in Christ shall all be ml.de olive." " But every mJ.D
in his own order. Christ the first fmits, afterwards they
that are Christ's at his coming." "The first man is of
tbe earth, earthy; the second Man is the Lord from
heaven." " As IS the earthy, such are they also that are
eo.khy; and as is the heavenly, such are they also that
are heavenly." "And as we hwe borne the image of
the earth" we shall also bear the image oftbe heavenly.
Now,th181 say, brethren, that tie3h and blood cannot
inherit the kiDjrdom of God; neither doth corntption in-
berit incorruption." "Behold, I show you a mystery:
11"
•
A
A

•
LEC'l'uat YIJI.
we shall not all sleep, but we sball all be changed, in a
moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at tAe lut 'mmp,
for the trumpet ahallliOund, and the dead shall be raised
incorruptible, and we shall be changed; for this cor·
ruptible must put on iQcorruption, and this mortal must
put on immortality." • Then will be brought to paBI the
lIlying that is written, Death is swallowed up in Yictory,"
1 Cor. xv. 22-54.
•
'~
Digitized by Google

LEOTURE IX •
•
Rn.I.~.
'l'he mystery of the seven stan which thou sawest in my right haDd,
alld the seven golden candlesticks. The se\'en stan are the aa·
gels of the seven clJurches; and the seven candlesticks which
thou.lawest are the sevea churches.
IT has generally been believed that the seven churches
to whom the angel instructed John to write, were seven
different and distinct churches in Asia, and by almost
all of our commentators at the present day are under-
stood to mean seven literal churches. But your speaker
is forced, from the reasons which will hereafter be pro-
duced, to believe that these seven churches of Asia are
to be understood in a figurative sense, alludin~ to seven
periods of the church militant, during the Chnstian dis-
pensation, down to the first resurrection, and the com-
mencing of the glorious reign of Christ on the earth, com-
monly called The Mille7lnium. If this view of the subject
should prove to be the correct exposition of the text, how
iiDportant and interesting is the subject to us who live in
the last stage of the church! Then we who live at this
day, are particularly, and solemnly and ~vlly, admon-
ished in what is said by Christ to the chUTe'" qfthe Laod-
icemu, that churoh corresponding with our stage of
the church immediately previous to the commencing of
the millennial glory; and how necessary that we should
know that these admonitions do most deeply concern us !
Thrs view of the subject will then claim our first at-
tention. Were the Beven churches used aB a figure of
the whole Chriatian dispensation, or were they not?· I
Digitized by Google
•
"

r
LJ:CTUU IL
answer, In my humble opinion, they were.
BecaUle.
first, the book of Revelation does evidently contain a
prophecy of things which did not concern those seven
literal churches in Asia; for those churches have lon,
since passed away and become e:'ttinct; yet the book 0
Revelation contains prophecies which are daily fulfil-
ling, and have been for eighteen centuries. It is also
said t..) be a revelation of things which must shortly come
to pass. .. The revelatiou of Jesus Christ which God
gave unto him, to sh'lW unto his servants things which
must shortly come to pass." Not things that hav,been.
Yet if Christ is only giving admonitory advice to those
seven literal churches, then)1e is o.;)y relathlg their char-
acters as they then were, and so far as these churches
. were concenled it would cease to be a pI:Ophecy, and tho
very first verse in Revelation would be violated. Again,
3d verse, .. Blessed is he that readeth and they that hear
the words of this prophecy, and kf!ep those thinp which
are written therein; for the time is at hand." We lee
that it is called a prophecy in this verse, and must al-
Jude to the whole book; but who will pretend that the
three chapters in the beginning of Revelation are a
prophecy, if we understand them as relating the char-
acter of seven literal churches in Asia only? None,
none.
Again: the worll leven is often used in the word of
God as a mystical number, meaning,the whole, as seven
Ipirits, seven stars, seven angeLi, seven candlesticks,
seven leals, seven trumpetS, seven vials, seven thun-
der:!, seven plagues, seveu mountains, seven heads, seven
eyes, saven homs, seven crown:!, seven kin"" and ,ewn
chv.rchu. All these are used in Revelation and apply to
or concerning the whole Gospel period. If, then, the
number seven is used RO often in.this book in a figurative
leuse, may we not reasonably suppose that it is 10 used
in the dedication of Otis book to tile seven churches in
Asia, and the history of those seven churches be pro-
phetic? for no scripture is given for any priVale inter-
pretation, and surely the instruction in the introduction
or the book carries us down to the coming of Christ in
the. clouds -" Dehold, he cometh with elona.; ... d evert
~,
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SJ:CO~D COMI1f6.
12!)
eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him; and
all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him; even
so, amen. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and
the ending, which is, and which was, and which is to
come, the Almighty." And why all this descriptive gran-
deur in the address to these seven churches, if they only
were meant? Surely there were other churches of equal
importance at that day.
Where were the churches at
Corinth, Cappadocia, Galatia, Thessalonica, Phi'ippi, Col-
losse, Rome, Jerusalem, Bithynia, &c.? Our text shows
that the seven churches were to be understood in a fig-
urative or mystical sense. "The mystery of the seven
stars which thou sawest in my right hand, and the seveu
golden candlesticks. The seven stars are the angels of
the seven churches; and the seven candlesticks which
thou sawest are the seven churches." These seven
churches are represented by" seven lamps." See Zach.
iv. 2, " And said unto me, What seest thou? And 1 said,
I havE; looked, and behold a candlestick all of gold, with
a bowl UpOil the top of it, and his seven lamps thereon,
and seven pipes to the seven lamps which were upon the
top thereof." Thes& seven lamps are called" the eyes
of the Lord which run to and fro through the whole
earth." See Zach. iv. 10. lfthis is true, th!"n it readily
follows that the seven churches of Asia are only used as
a fi.;rure representing the church "through the whole
eartn." Again: the seven lamps, which are the seven
churches, are called the seven spirits of God.
Rev. iv.
5, ,( And there were seven lamps of fire burning before
tbe throne, which are the seven spirits of God." I have
clearly proved, and I think it will be admitted by all, that
the "seven eyes of the Lord," and" the seven spirits of
God," are the seven churches to whom John WIlS di-
rected to write or dedicate his book, the Revelation of
Jesus Christ.
And I will now show that these comprehended the
whole church through the whole earth. See Rev. v. 6,
•• And 1 beheld, and lo! in the midst of the throne and
of the four beasts, and in the midst of the elders, stood a
lamb as it had been slain, havin~ seve II horns, and seven
eyes, which are the "seven Spirlts of God sent forth into

Ll:CTUU Ilt.
all the earth." Again: when we compare the severa.
cha.racteristic marks or eventa, upon opening the sevell
teals, with those marks IIJId illlltructions to the seven
churches, we shall be led to admire the beauty, hannonf,
and consistency of the Revelation of Jesus Christ to hIS
people. And I think the mind will rest satisfied that this
view of the subject is the truth, because it 80 exactly
agrees witlI Christ's manner of teaching. by parables
when he was with U8 in the flesh.
Some may inquire, "Why were those BeVen churches
in Asia used as figures to represent tlIe church militant
in her several conditions to tlIe end of her militant state ?"
I answer, ) if we may be allowed to answer tlIe w/a!J8 or
~oru,) Because the signification of tlIe Il8.IIla of
those seven churches desc:n"be the spirit and qualities of
the several periods of the Christian church, which they
are brou,ht forward to repreaeut, which we ahall attempt
to show In il8 proper place.
.
J shall now endeavor to take up tlIe churches in tlIe
order in which they are laid down to us in Revelation.
(Read Rev. ii.1-7, inclusive.) 1st. The word EPHESUS1
iJuirable cA¥ This is tnIe concerning the first age or
the church, In the apoetJes' days, when tlIe Holy Ghost
was given flle power to work miracles, and tlIe power to
di.tinguisb between good and evil spirits, and when all
'Were of ODe heart ana one mind, and tlIe canon of the
Holy Scriptures were filling up, and the lnspired apostles
were setting things in order, and establishing churches
through tlIe world. Yes, my brethren, tlIeae were desirable
times surely. But to proceed: This church is addressed
by the ch~ter· "that holdeth the seven stars," the
ministers and servants of him who holdeth them" in his
right hand," under his immediate care and control, "who.
waIketlI in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks,"
and has said, where two or three are ~thered together
in his name, there will he be in the mIdst of them, and
has promised that w~ver they should ask in his name
it should be granted unto them. He says, "I know thy
works." In that day they brought forth fruits meet for
repentance, and tlIey went every where preachin¥ tha.t
Jnen Ibould repent; and Paul said, when preachini at,
Di9'ltized by Google

cHals'i"s SKCON)) COIQ!fG •
. Athens, " But now commandeth all men every where to
repent." Yes, all, saint or sinner, high or low, rich or
poor; all, all must repent. And O! my brethren, how
much we need these works at the present day! " Re-
member, therefore, from whence thou art fallen, and re-
pent ann do thy first works." Again he says, "I know
thy labot." Did not the apostles labor night and day?
2 Thess. iii. 8, " Neither did we Elat any man's bread for
nought, but wrought with labor and travail night and day,
thlt we might not be chargeable to any of you." See 1
Thess. ii. 8, 9, " So being affectionately desirous of you,
we were willing to have imparted unto you, not the gos-
pel of God only, but also our own souls, because ye were
de1r unto us.
For ye remember, brethren, our labor an(l
travail; for laboring night and day, because we would
not be chargeable to any of you, we preached nnto you
the gospel of God."
AO'ain he says, " And thy patience."
This, too, will apply to the apo~tles' days. · For Panl says,
2 Cor. vi. 4, "But in all things approving ourselves as
the ministers of God, in muc!l patience, in affl ictions, in
necessit.ies, in distresses."
Also, xii. 12, "Truly the
signs of an npostle were wrought amon'" you in all pa-
tience, in signs, and wonder3, and mighty deeds.
And
again the apostle says to Timot!IY, "But thou hast fully
known my doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith, long-
Buffering, charity, palience."
And who can read the his-
tory of the first age of tho church, but will admit that
works, labor and patience, were prominent features of
tint age, and virtues which adorned the Christian church
in it.;! infancy, more than any age since? "And how
thou canst not bear them which are evil." Who can
read Paul'a instructions to his Corinthian brethren, in 1
Cor. v. 11, without seeing this text fulfilled? "nut now
[ have written unto you not to keep company, if any man
thlt is called a brother [as though such a one could not
be a real brother, but only called so] be 0. fornicator, or
covetous, or an idolater, or a railer, or a drunkard, or an
extortioner; with such a one no not to eat."
And had
the servants of Christ at the present day the power of
the apostles to discern the spirits by which we are gov-
erned, ~QW many in this congregation would blush \Vhl'n
)igitize( byGoogle

•
. 132
LBCTI11LB Ilt.
"J~" is mentioned!
How many "covefouI"
would hide their faces! How many "idolateTlI" would
how their heads, or fA railert" would begin to munnur at
the plainness of the speaker! How many "dru'1lluJrd&"
would not have staggered into this house! And how
many "·exf.ortiomr." would have staid at home! 0 God,
thou knowest. Or }Vho can read the 2d chapter of the
2d epistle of Peter, and John's first epistle, Jude, and
others, and not be convin~ed that the apostles could not
bear with them that were evil? Again: "Thou bBst
tried them which say they are apostles, and are not, and
hast found them liars." This sentence was fulfilled in
the apostles' days. Simon Magus, after he was profess-
edly a disciple of Christ, was found out by Peter to be
in the fA gall of bitterness and bonds of iniquity." Hy-
meneus and Alexander, whom Paul delivered to Satan,
that they may learn not to blaspheme. 1 Tim. i. 20.
Also Philetus,.Demas, and Alexander the coppersmith,
were all found to be liars, and many others who went out
from them, as the apostle says, because they were not of
them. And how many are there now, my brethren, among •
us, who, when tribulation cometh, will be effended, and
go Qut from I1S! Lord, is it I? "And hast borne, and
hast patience, and for my name's sake hast labored, and
hast not fainted."
Yes, my brethren, it was for the name
of Jesus, tllat the primitive Christians bore the persecu-
tions of theIr day.
Acts xv. 25, 26, "It seemed good
unto us to send chosen men unto· you, with our beloved
. Barnabas and Paul, men that have hazarded their lives .
for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ." Acts ix. ]6,
" For I will show him what· great things be must suffer
for my name's sake." Verse 41, " And they departed from
the presence of the council;- rejoicing that they were
. counted worthy to suffer shame for his name." And,
m~y. I not inqUIre, how many of us are willing ~d would
rejOice to suffer shame for the name of Christ? Perhaps
nOlle. We had rather be called Rabbi, Rev., Dr., &c.
\Ve are contending for our namu at the present day; for
Ba.ptists, Congregationalists, Presbyterians, Methodists,
}'ree-wills, Campbellites, &0. If we do not contend earn-
estly for our sect, they will decrease, and we shall come
Digitized by Google

to nought. And I say, May God speed it; so that you
all may fall on the word of God, and rally again under
the name of Jesus. But we will proceed with our s\lb-
ject. 4th verse, "Neverthelel!8 I have somewhatag:l.inst
thee, because thou hast left thy first love." Can this be
true ? Did the apostolic church, in its purity, so IIOOn
depart from the first principles of the gospel? Yes, in
Acts xv. 24, "Forasmuch as we have heanl that certain
which went out from us have troubled you with wordB,
subverting your souls, saying, ye mUllt be circumcised,
and keep the whole law, to whom we gave no Bucb com-
mandment." Gal. i. 6, "I marvel that· ye are so IIOOn
removed from him that called YOQ into the grace of
Christ vnto another 'gospel." 1 Tilrtothy, i. 19, "Hold-
ing faith and 0; good. conscience, whieh some ha,.ving put
away, concermng fruth, have,made shl}l\vreek." 2Tim.
i.15, "This thou knowest, that all they which are in
Asia are turned away from me." And Panl further snys,
iv. 16, "At my first answer no man stood with me, but
all men forsook me. I pray God lay not this sin to their
charge."
Many more eVIdences might be brought, to prov~ that
many, in that early state of the church, did fall away from
the doctrine of grace, which Paul and the apostles taught.
And now, my brethren, how is it with us? Ar.e we
built on the truth? Have we a "Thus saith the Lord," '
for all we believe and do? Are we built on "the proJ!h-
ets and apostles, JesUil Christ himself being the chief
comer-stone" ?
Look well to your foundation -
the
day is coming that will try every man's works.
Verse 5, "Remember, therefore, from whence thou
art fallen, and repent and do the first works, or else 1
will come unto thee quickly, and will remove the candle-
stick out of his place, except thou repent." In this verse
the great Head of the church admonishes the Christians
of their former sins in neglecting the doctrine of grace,
and falling into the popular errors of the day, which I
have before noticed, and warns them of their duty to
repent, which is the first and great command under the
gospel. He also gives them notice, that, except they
repent, he will remove the "desirable" state of the
Digitized by Google
'. •

•
LlICTUU I~
ehulch into the ~
which would be a state of trial,
peraecution, and poverty.
6th verae, "But this thou hast, that thou hatest the
deeds of the Nicolaitans, which 1 also hate." What the
deeds of the Nicolaitans were, we are 'not able; from the
'Word of God, to determine; but from some things hinted
at by some ancient authors, :we have good reason to be-
lieve that Nicolas, one of the seven deacons, departed
from the doctrine which the apostles taugbt, and preached
a doctrine which was repugnant to the gospel of. Christ,
. viz., a community or plurality of wives, which led Paul
in his instructions to .sav, "Let the deacons be the hus- .
band of one wife," 11'im. iii. 12.
"He that hath an
e3.l', let him hear what the Spirit saitl:i to the churches."
Here we have another evidence, that the brancb of the
church at Ephesus was not the only church addressed
in this epistle and prophecy; for, if so, what propriety
in using the word chu.rches, in the plural, when only one
church in Asia was spoken of?
No, it could not be
proper, neither would it have been, as it is so used in
every epistle through the whole seven, had not Christ
de3!gned it for all the churches in a certain age. There
is also an admonition contained in these fast-quoted
words, to read, hear, Bnd observe the prophecy now
given by the Spirit toJohn, the inspired servant of Christ;
and for all the churches of the age spoken of; to be care-
ful to apply to themselves the admonitions, designed by
the Holy Spirit for their immediate· benefit.. "To him
that overeometh will I give to eat of the tree of life,
which is in the midst of th~ paradise of God." How
precious is this promise to the faithful and tried soul,
. who place3 nil his hope, and strength, and dependence,
. on one who is mighty to save, and on one who Iuos prom-
ised to bring him oft' conqueror over all the f;lIemies
of grace, and the powera of hell! Yes, and, r .ore th311
all, he has overcome and entered within the veil, as a
forerunner fur liS who believe. May we all, by faith,
have a right to this tree of life, this paradise-of God.
I will now examine the prophecy to the second church,
which [ nnderatand to commence about the close of the
first century, and lasted about two hundred years, until
the daya of Constantine, A. D. 3]2.
•
Digitized by Google

•
CBRIST'i 81:-::0ND COMING.
8th verse, "And unto the angel of the church in
Smyrna, write." 'fhe signification of the word Smyrna,
IS myrrh j denoting that the church in thlS age would be
a sweet-smelling savor to God, while she was passing
l1lrough the fiery ordeal of persecution und affliction,
which always has served to weed ont those obnoxious
plants of pride, popularity, self-dependence -
the banI!
and poison of true fiLith, piety, and devotion. And 0,
my brethren, could we learn wisdom, by what the church
has already suffered in the days of our forefathers, we
should be more humble, the more worldly peace and
prosperity we enjoyed. For it is only in the midst of
persecution and trial, that the church manifest great pu-
rity of doctrine or lile. How well, then, might this age
of the church be conlpnred to myrrh, when she must
have been separated from worldly honors, hvarice, pride,
popularity, and hypocrisy, when the hypocrite and world-
ling had no motives to unite with and destroy the union
of the brotherhood, and when the hireling shepherd could
expect no fleece, that would suit his cupidity, to filch
from the lambs of Christ! "These thin~s saith the first
and the last, which was dead and is ruive." ]n these
words we learn the character speaking to the church.
It is no less than the mighty God, the everlasting Fa-
ther, the Prince of Pence. "I know thy works, and trib-
ulation, and poverty." Now, their works were about to
be tried j although God knew them that were his, yet he
designed to manifest to a wodd who would be faithful
even unto death, and to show that pure and undefiled re-
ligion would burn with a brighter flame in tribulation
and poverty, and the richness of that faith, which would
brin~ off the true Christian conqueror over the powers
of the world, the temptations of Satan, and corruptions
of the flesh.
"But thou art rich."
Yes, brethren, the
true and genuine Christian is rich.
For charity can stif-
fer long in tribulation, and the spirit of Christ will make
us forsake all for his sake, and endure poverty for the
lIame of Jesus. "And I know," suys Christ, "the blas-
phemy of them which say they are Jews, (that is, people
of God,) and are not, but are the synagogue of Satan."
Although Christ knew the hypocrites and false profes-

LECTURE IX.
BOrs that had rushed into his visible kingdom during a
time of prosperity that the church had experienced in its
Ephesian state, or apostolic age, yet now the time had
come, when that candlestick must be removed, and the
next age of the church or candlestick be set IIp; and the
same means used by God to purify the silver would
purge out the dross, so that the kingdom would again be
cleansed of its worldly, hypocritical, and false professors.
10, " Fear none of those things which thou shalt suf~
fer." The true child of' God need not fear to suffer for
Christ's sal.e, for the sufferings of this present evil world
will work out for us a far more exceeding and eternal
weight of g-lory.
" Behold, the devil shall cast some of
you into prtson, that ye may be tried, and ye shall have
tribulation ten days." The devil in this verse means Pa-
gan Rome.
S'ee Rev. xii. 9, ] 7, " And the great dragon
was cast out, that old serpent, called the devil." "And
the dragon was wroth with the woman, and went to make
, war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the com-
mandments of Gou, and have the tp.stimonyof Jesus
Christ." How exactly was this prophecy fulfilled in the
days of Nero, Domitian, and other Roman emperors, and
how faithful has history been to record the ten persecu-
tions between the days of John's prophecy and the em-
peror Constantine! In these ten persecutions of'the Ro-
man ~vernment, in the text callen ten days, we learn by
the history of those days the church suffered a great di-
minution in numbers by apostasy and fear; yet those
that remained steadfast made up in graces what they lost
in numbers; and it was truly a time of trial, for many
were cast into prison, and many suffered torture and
death, r&ther than to offer sacrifices to their Pagan gods.
"Be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a
crown of life."
Yes, my brethren, if we can believe the
history of those days, many of the dear disciples of Christ
were faithful unto death, and have long enjoyed the
crown of life promised in this prophecy.
11, " He thu.t hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit
eaith to the churches. He that overcometh S/lIl]] not be
hurt of tile second death." Here, then, we find some of
those characters who will have part in the first reSllrrec
[igiJize, "Coogle

CBBlST!! IiECOl'l'D. COlllll'lG.
tion, the bl888ed martyrs who were Blain for the wibl_
of Josue. See Rev. xx. 4. And in this PIUlllBw.' we are
, again commanded to hear what the Spirit s81th to the
c:hurched-all, all who have ears; not the branch in
Smyrna only, but all who have ears. We have long been
in the habit of giving aWBY Script'lre to otbers when it
belongs to us and our children; let us therefore apply it
home.
,
12, "And to the augel of the church in Perga,mo.
write."
Very earthy elevated is the signification of the
word Pergamo.; and this church represents the age of
Con;tantine, which lasted more than two hundred yean,
uutil the rise of anti-Christ, from A. D. 312 until A. D.
53B. During this age the church became very earthy,
having her worldly policy, and, like the church in the
I present day, attending more to the outward concerna,
and the worldly part of religion, than to inward piety
and jrrac8ll of the spirit, looking more for JOm&lf Bnd cere-
montu, th.ln 'for the life, ptJUJeJ', and 8pirit of the religion
of Jesua, spending much of their time in building elegant
chapels, gorgeous temples, high places to educate their
ministry, and adorning them with pictures and pleasant
things, and filling the hearts of their worshippers with
higb, popular, and haughty notions. Yas, my brethren,
the age of trial was gone; the holy and secret aspirations
of piety tied away, and, now she had obtained an earthly
emperor, her divine Master was forgotten.
An:! here
was the falling away mentioned by Paul, 2 Thess. ii 3,
"Let no man deceive you by any means; for ·that day
shJ.1l not come except there come a falling away first,
and that man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition."
This, then, was the age that prepared the church to re-
ceive that monster, the man of sin, the son of perdition,
into her bosom, which stung the church with the poison of
asps, and filled the temple of God with imaEe worship,
and the church "with idolatry, selfishnes3, avarice, and
1>ride.
.
"These things saith he which hath the sharp s,vord
""ith two edges." By the sharp sword with two edge~
we must understand the word of God, which denounces
heavy ju:1gments on the wicked, nnd cuts off the coqup-
12-
Digitized by Google

•
LECTtJaE II.
tioD!! and erroJ"!l from the church. The Psalmist says,
cx
, "Let
ts be jo
lory; Ie
tbp
aloud upo
eds. Le
h pJ"!Iise
of
in their
and a tw
sword i
thf..
to exeeu
ance upo
then, an
punishments upon the people."
Paul says, Heb. iv. 12,
~ For the' word of God is quick and powerful, sharper
than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing
asunder of soul and s irit, and or th .. ts and mar
ro
a discern
e though
ntents 0
th
And Job
ev. i. 16,
he had i
his
nd seven
nd out 0
outh wen
a sharp two-edged sword.
Then this IS the meaning
of the p8.S88.ge under consideration, " These things saith
he," which hath the word of God, and showing ns the
importance of attending to the subject following, by the
im
of the s
'He that
st." An
no
we read
let us ke
mory ilia
it
a perso
&king, th
of who
th
ts did wr
0 holdetl
tars in hi
right hand, and created and preserves all things by the
word of his power. Hear him.
"I know thy works, lind where thou dwellest, even
where Satlln'~ seat i·'
He
again, w h
evidenc
th
urcb is I
"dwellin
tan's seat,
th
kingdo
great red
, imperi
R
ereon th
mystical
f Babylo
sitteth.
Tb~ cburch, In thIS age, beoame lffiffiediately
connected with this P9wer called Satan, wbich is the
devil, Pagan Rome. "And thou noldest fast my name,
aDd h88t not rlenied my faith."
In this time of popular
re
nd wben
from po
dworldl
m
ited thei
to the pe
God, eti
th
"orne wh
0 the doc
Christ, an
di
y the fai
" Even in those days, wherein Antipas was my faithful
martyr, who was slain among you where Satan dwell-
eth." It is supposed that Antipns was not an individ-
ual but a class of men wh
opposed the
wer 9f the
bi
Popes in
y, being
ination 0
tw
, JIltti, [)
nd Papcu
or Pope
;oogle

CHRIST'S SECOND COKING.
lind many of them suffered martyrdom, at that time, in
Constantinople and Rome, where the bishops and Popes
began to exercise the power which soon after brought
into subjection the kings of the earth, and trampled on
the rights of the church of Christ. And, for myself, I
see no reason to reject this expl.mation of the word
.J1ntipaa in this text, as the history of those times are
perfectly silent respecting such an inrlivirlual .as is
here named. Yet many, who opposed the worship of
saints and pictures, and the infallibility of the bishop of
Rome, were excomrnuniclLted, persecuted, and finally
driven out from among men, and in the next age of the
church had to flee into the wilderness.
All this hap-
pened in the kingdom of Rome, "where Satan dwell-
eth."
" But I have a few things against thee, because thou
hast there them that hold the doctrine of Balaam,
who taught Balak to cast a stumbling-block before the
children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed unto idols,
and to commit fornication." The world have always
been endeavoring to draw the church of Christ into
fellowship with them, and to a mixed commnnion of
idolatry as Balaam taught Balak to draw the children
of Tsra~1 from their God and his commands, by mixing
with the Jews in their worship, and, at the same time,
by ilegrees, introduce their priests, their altars and
idol worship into their camp.
In Constantine's day this
mode of warfare was introduced with great success by
Pa~an worshippers, so that in little more than two cen-
turIeS the greater part of the professed Christian church
became the image of the beast of which we are nOI"
speaking, viz., Pagan Rome. Here, then, we Ilee the
nse of Papacy on the downfall of Pagan Rome. ·Who-
soever will take the pains of comparing the Pagan
manner of worship, forms, and ceremonies with Papacy,
cannot help being forcibly struck with the similarity of
the two.
One deified their departed heroes and poets,
the other her departed saints and votaries. 'fhe one
consulted her oracles and priests for laws and instruc-
tions, the other her Popes and cardinals. The one
had her altars, images, and statues, the other her chap-
0'0'"'' "Coogle

LBCTVILB IX.
e1s, pictures, and Cl'Oll88L Both had them erected iD
every public plll.Ce, for the multitude to fall before lind
worship. Both h:J.d their holy fire, holy water, and both
claimed to perform miracles; the one by the.respollStl of
her wooden oracles, an4 the other by her carnal priest-
hood. Here, then, we see how the church, in the fourth
and fifth century, was led over the stumbling-block of
Paganism, to eat things sacrificed to idols, and to com-
mit fornication.
,"So, also, hast thon them that'hold the doctrine of the
Nicolaitans, which thing I ha.te." Thill doctrine was
. promulgated in the fourth century. See the church his-
tory, and our former observations.
"Repent, or els~ I will come unto thee quickly, and
will light against them with the sword of my mouth."
Again the Lord calls for repentance, and threatens the
judgments of his word upon them that obey not. 0 !
may we take warning, my brethren, and tempt not the
heavy judgments of God upon us, for our idolatry and
fellowship of that which is not the religion of lesus.
" He that hath an ear, let him. hear what the Spirit
saith unto the churches. To him that overcomethl will
I give to eat of the hidden manna., and will ~ivo him a
white stone, and in the stone a new n!l.Ille wntten, which
no man knoweth saving he that receiveth it." Again,
all that have ears are commanded to hear, and those
who remain faithful, that do not fall away, receive a
promise of spiritual food, and a name and ri~hteousness
which noDe can know but they who receive It.
18, "And unto the an~el of the church in Thyatira
write."
The .significatWn of Thyatira is, a "sweet
I&vor' of labor or sacrifice and contrition," and is a de-
acription of the chnrch, after she is driven into the wit-
dernesa by the anti-Christian beast. This church lasted
until about the tenth century; and little of her history
is known to the world; but some authors have pretended
to trace her into the north-west part of Asia, and in tJ.e
,north-east part of Europe, where they lived until about
the tenth century, unknown unto the rest of the world.
or t.akina' but little concern with the nations arouni
thea. 'Yet it is 'said they re~ined religion in its puri
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECOND COMINO.
'Y, and held to the doctrines of the word of God. A,
IILny rate this church is represented 88 being in IlL state
of heavy trial, Md subject to· seduction by some power
represented by tluzt tlIOlII4n Juebel, of which I shall
speak in ita place. "These things saith the Son of·
God, who hath his eyes like unto a flame of lire, amI
his feet. are like fiile bl'll88;" representing, liB in all
the other declamtiolll! to the churches, that the character
IILddressing them is no less than the mighty God, the
omniscient, omnipotent, and omnipresent Jehovah, who
Ba~, .. I know thy works, a.nd charity, and service, &nd
faith, &na patience, and thy works; and the last. to be
more tha.n the first." When this church existed, which
was when anti·Christ began her reign, there was great
need of the exercille of those graces of the spirit which
in this passage are enumerated. 1st. In works they had
to, &nd without doubt did, combat the anti·Christisn
doctrincs which began in the sixth eenturr to over·
whelm the Cbristi&n world, such as worshipping ~l
..
departed saints, subjection to councils and bishop.,
infallibility of the Pope, &e.
They. in charity, too,
had many of their hrethren to B1ista.in while combatting
these errors agaiDst the power of this beast. They did
much semee h\ holding up the hands of their pious
teachers ad pastors wno were not led away by this
wicked one. . How much faith, too, must they have
been in pas_ion of to have withatdbd the power
of their councils, the excommunications of the Pope,
and a DUJ.jority - of their brethren who had fell into
Pa~l errors!
how much "patitw:e" to have reo
malDed uDwavering amidst persecution when drivcn
from their homes, their country &nd mends, into the
wilderness, where God prepared a place for her! Ind
how much more necessary were their last works to sup-
port each other in .exile, poverty, &nd distress, the natural
consequence of being driven from among. men! But
these things were so, according to the best account we
can obtain of those times.
20, " Notwitbstanding, I have a few things against thee,
because.thou suft"eJ:'8st that wom&n Jezebel, which call-
eth herself a prophetess, to teach and to seduce my
Digitized by Google

loW
LECTURE IX.
IlervantB to commit fornication, Bnd to eat things
sacrificed to idols."
In this verse we have &trong
testimony that the ex~ition we have given of the
seven churches is correct; for no character given the
woman Jezebel will apply so exactly, as the woman
sitting on the scarlet-colOred beast, lull of names o(
blasphem,Y, .. having a golden cup in her hand ftIll of
abominations and filthiness of her fornication."
Jeu6el ilJ a figurative name, alluding to Ahab's wife,
who slew the prophets of the Lord, led ner husband into
idolatry, and fed the prophets of Baal at her own table.
A more striking fiaure could ndt have been used to de-
scribe the Papal .;'homination. See 1 Kings xviii. xix.
xxi. chapters. It is very evident fj'onf history, as well DB
from this venre in Revelation, that the church of Christ·
did suffer some of the Pnpal monks to prench and teach
among them. See the history of the Waldensea. .
21, "And 1 gave her space to repent of her fornica-
tion, and she. repented not." 22," Behold I will cast her
into a bed, lUll! them that commit adultery with her into
great tribulatiollj except they repent of their deeds.'" 23,
"And I will kill her children with death; and all the
churches shall know that I am he which searcheth the
reins snd hearts, and I will give unto everyone of you
according ,to your works." 'Ve cannot be miBtaken ·in
the charscter given to this mystical Jezebel, when we'
compare the dlFscriptions -here used, and the judgments
threatened, with other passages of like import In Reyela-
tion, where mystical Babylon is described and threat·
cned. See Rev. ix. 20,21, .. And the rest.of the men
which were not killed by these plagues, yet repented not
of the works of their hands, that they should not worship
devils and idols of gold, and silver, and brass, and stone,
and of wood, which neither can see, nor hear, Dor walk:
neither repented lbey of their murdel'll, nor of their 1I0r-
ceries, nor oftheU' fornication, nor of their thefts."
If these last texts mean Qti-Christ, of which I believe
nono have any doubt, that if .. , no commentator that I have
been ahle to consult, then it is equally evident that thill
woman, called Jezebel, in this prophecy of the chureh iD
Thyaara. means the same; and the conclusion is strong
Digitized by Google

CUBIST'S SBCOND COMING.
;,hat the Thyatira church repreICnta, the churches in
Bome age of anti-Christ, and the prophecy contained in
the \'eraes we have already quoted are the judgments God
hat! and will pour out on that great city th.8.t rules over
the kinge of the earth, and has for ages past trodden the
church under foot, and contaminated tho people of God
bv her seductions, sorceries, and fornications.
• 24, "But unto you I say, and unto the rest in 'fhya-
tim, As many as have not this doctrine, and which have
not known the depths of Satan as they speak, 1 will put
upon you none other burden." 25," But that which ye
have already, hold fast till I come." In these verses the
church which have not feUowsbipped th~ anti-Christian
doctrine, and have not followed the practices of the 8&-
tanic blasphemies of their abominations, are .here prom-
ised to experience no other persecution exc~p( what the.y
may eXP'lrience from thi~ beast or woman Jezebel, which
is another proof of this being anti-Christ; for the church
ill ThYll.tira has long been extinct, if there ever was .such
a church, and was when the man of sin was reve.lled;
and yet they are promised to havo none other burden un-
til he come, as it is more than implied; and this power is
to stand until he comes. For Paul says, " Whom he shall
consume with the spirit~f his mouth and destroy with the "
brightness of his coming." This is Daniel's fourth king-
dom, which waS to be broken without hand, and to be
carried away like the chaff of the summer threshing-Hoor
before the wind, that no place be found for it.
.
26, "And he that overcometh and keepetb my works
unto the end, to him will I give power over the nation~,"
27, (., And he shall rule them with a rod of iron; as the
vessels of a potter shall they be broken to shivera,) eVlln
as I received of my Father. And I will give him the
morning star." 29," He that hllth an ear, let him hear
what the Spirit saith to the churches."
In closing the prophecies to the churches, our divine
T nstructor carries them down to that day when he shall
come to be admired in all them that believe, or to glorify
his saints, to crown them his in his kingdom of glory, to
break in pieces all the kingdoms of the earth as a pow:r'. •
vessel is broken to shiv~rs, as the last text saya, wbic4
Digitized by Google

LECTlJU IX.
provell that when Christ comes, he will bnng ail the aa.inta
with him, and this too when the kingdoms of this world
and anti-Christ will be destroyed. And this proves an-
other important point in which many good and pious peo-
ple are greatly mistaken, viz., that there will not be &
tholllllUld years' happy reiJD previous to Christ's coming
the 8000nd time withoutsm unto salvation. What happy
reign can there be while the kingdoms of the earth stand
as they now do; wbile the anti-Christian beast bas power
to seduce and draw the servants of God into idolatry, and
lull to her serpentine folds thousands and tens of thou-
lands buman beings yearly, and deceive the nations by
her siren Bong of moUIIr c1&urc1&; wbile by means of her
poison, subtle, secret, and deep, Bhe is undermining and
I8.JIping the foundation of every religious sect but her
own i of every civil government but such as will resign
their power unto her control? And now, w~ile I am
apeaking. she is exerting an influence in this once favored
land, by means of her Jesuits, tbat will 'let father against
son, and son ~nst father, and drench our country in
blood. Can this monster of murder, iniquity, and blood,
retain her life, her standing in society, and we bave a
happy reign? No. She IOl1st and will sink like a mill-
stone in the mighty deep, and God will avenge the blood
of bis servants. Her flesh must be eatep by dogs i yeJ,
the kings of tlte earth sball eat her flesh, and God shall
CODSume ber with fire before the happy reign come ..
" am.e, LmvJ Juu, _
quit:ldg."
Digitized by Google

LEOTURE .X.
RBV. L 110.
'I'bc mystery of Ihe seven stan which thou sawesl in my rigid
baud, aucf the seven golden ~audlesticks. The seveo stan BAlI
the Bngels or Ihe seven cburehes; Bnd the seven candlestieb
which \boa .. weill an Ihe seven cburcha.
IN my former lectures I have given my views of four
Of the churches spoken of in the text.
Th~ more re-
main, which will complete the prophetic history of the
church through all the ages of the New Testament time.
until the state of trial shall be fulfilled, and the church
slla11 enter her glorified kingdom in triumph. You have
undoubtedly been led, by the comparison of the churchM
with the history thus tar, to admire the agreement of the
prophecy of the four churches with the history of the
times; and truly this is one of the weatest evidences we
have of the truth of the divine inspIration of revelation,
and this evidence fixes the authenticity of the Scriptures
beyond a reasonable doubt. I shall now claim a few
moments' indulgence while I attempt to show where and
when the other three churches have been or will be ful-
filled.
See Rev. iii.
I, .. And unto the angel of the church in Sardis write."
Bong of Joy, or that wfiich remains, is the signification
of SarrJ.V. The last signification is the one which the
heavenly Instructor has affixed himself to this church in'
the second verse, .. Be watchful, and strenl[then the,
things which relftain." The church preceuing thii
had puaed a long; dark, and benighted age Of the world,-
)3
Digitized by Google

LECTl1U X.
and IJvery writer of these times calls them the dark
ages; and truly it 'WlIB an age of superstition, bigotry,
and ignorance; therefore we must reasonably suppose
that but few were the true worshippers of God, and
those few enjoying but a faint knowledge of divine
tbings. But we will pursue our course. ,,'rhese·things
saith he that hath the seven spirits of God, and the
seven stars, I know thy works, that thou hast Ii na.me,
that thou livest, and art dead." The same character
that has addressed the other churches, still gives him-'
. self a quality by which we may know that it is he who
is called God man, having the spirit of God, and, as man
governing his church as the star of Bethlehem. This
church began about the tenth century, and lasted until
the Reformation under Luther, Calvin, and others.
They had a name, were called W aldenses, Valdenses,
&c., "and art dead j" that is,' she was .or would
be of little use to the rest of the world, hiding her inllu-
ence within her own sphere, and of course did not mani-
fedt her light to the world, was inactive, idle, not per-
forming the' work which God had commanded them to
perform, to set their light on the candlestand, that it
might give light to all This was the case with the
church in the valleys of Piedmont during the time of the
crusades to the Holy J,.and j and while the Pope had tire
command of all the armies of Euro'pe, the church lived.
in these valleys of the Pyrenees, nearly in the centre of
EUrope, unknowing and unknown.
2d .,verse, "Be watchful, and strengthen the things
which remain, that are ready to die j for I have not found
thy works perfect before God." Although the church
10 this age retai!led some of th~ leading priIlciples of the
gospel, the ordmances were 10 part retained among
them, yet towards the close of this Sardi!< age, the Papal
monks and priests were sent in among them, and lOany
of the Waldenscs became corrupted by the Papal beast
and her do.:trine •. Therefore the admonition," Be wlltch-
ful, and strengthen the things which remailL"
3d verse," Remember how thou hast received and
heard, and hold fast and repent. If, therefore, thou
Ihalt Dot watch, I will come on thee as a thief, and thou.
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECOND COMING.
shalt not know what hour I will come upon thee." The
judgment threatened in this verse, "I will come upon
thee," is undoubtedly a prophecy of tlle persecution of
the Waldenses and Lollards, by the Papal authority, and
through the inquisition, as an instrument, about the close
of the fourteenth century, when, for their departure from
the true doctrine of the gospel, and the commands of
God, they were persecuted and scattered Rmong all
nations, so that by the judgments of God, for their trans-
gressions, they were made instruments in the hands of
God of spreading the knowledge of the gospel among
the nations, which they ought to have done in obedience
to his word, and for the love of souls. And these judg-
ments served the double purpose of punishment for sin,
and opening a door for a more general display of sal-
vation.
.
4th verse," Thou hast a few names even in Sardis
which have not defiled their garments, and they shall
walk with me in white, for tlleyare worthy." There
were a few even in this age of moral darkness who fol-
lowed Christ in his laws and ordinances, and tlley
recl-ive the promise of justification before God," walk
with me in white."
5th verse, "He that overcometh, the same shall be
clothed in white raiment, and I will not blot out his
name out of the book of life; but I will confess his name
before my Father and before his angels." Wherl/wer
the phrase, "he that overcometh," is used, it always im-
plies, I think, in the Scriptures, that the persons addressed
are, or will pass through a time of persecution; and in
this text the church in this age is shown that those only
who can endure tribulation and persecution will ho
acknowledged at the bar of God as the children of faith.
And then this church is again warned to hear and be-
lieve what the Spirit saith to the churche3.
6th verse," He that hath an ear, let him hear what
the Spirit saith to the churches."
I shall now attempt to show to what age we may cal-
culate the Philadelphia church should answer, and when
tllis prophecy was fulfilled.
7th verse," And to the angel of the church in Phila-
Diaitizea l)yGoogle

...
LECTVU 1.
dmphia write, These thiDIlS saith be that is holy, b.~t
is true, he that hath the "key of David, he that openetb
and no man shutteth, and shutteth and no man openeth."
This verse is a description of the charscter alidreBlling
the church and gives an account of his holiJ:aess, his vera-
eity, authority, and power, and leaves us without a doubt
that it is Jesus the son of David, the Holy One of
larael, the faithful and true witness, he that hath all
power in heaven and in earth. And he thus addresses
them, 8th verse, "I know thy works: behold, I have ~t
before thee an open door, and no man can .mut it, for
thou hast a little streng$, and hast kept my word, and
hast not denied my name." The s~!lation of the
DIIDIe of this church, Philadelphia, ~ Or.otl!erly lotIe, and
t,bis age beglUl about thll time of the Refo~tio~; for
then God opened an effectual door for tho gospel to be
Ipread which no man or set of men has been able to
lIhut. And the early reforniers ~played a :&eel an~
fearlessness in their cause w~ch astonished their tiieoclJ
~nd confounded their enemies. At this ~e, too, CJuis,.
tian love and fellowship was evidently one of the
strongest marks of the day ~d ~ested U,iat the work
Willi of God.
9th verse, " Behold, 1 will mue them of thtl syna-
gogue of Batan which say they are Jews an~ are qot,
but do Jie." The characters here. spoken of are tho
same 8S those who sit in Satan's seat, who p1'Q~1I8 to bO
Christians, but are anti-Christians; th~ are Worsl;dPpelif
of the Papal bellllt, professing to be tJlII ~
c1&Urel&.
but are 'only that part wbicli are fallen aw.y,' ~ Paul
has told us, "there should come 8 falli~_Y first, and
then the man of sin should be reveale . wh,o 'oPPO. ~~
(or is anti,) and enltethhimself(calling
.•. 1~'Je~
a figu~tive expreesion, or name for ~~)
abqve
all that IS called God." " Behold, I will IJIake \h8lll to
come and worshi,p befote thy feet, and to know that I
have loved thee.
This .sentence shows that anti-Chris\
would be humbled in this age of the church and btbUihi.
to tala: tile back ground, or in some measure ~e. ~3
civil power over the Protestant church and be hombl
at hel, feet. Hu not this prophQC1. b~ aec9J;llP~

CHRIS'lJS SECOND COMING.
strictly accordin~ to the letter?· Witness Gre:lt Britain,
Germany, and other nations.
And to this day she haa
not been able to bring into subjection any of the Protes-
tant states, and is only permitted to dwell among them by
toleration.
And although within a few years past she
seems to be making an effort to regain her lost power
and authority, yet it is bllt a last struggle, n dying ga~p;
for soon she must and will fall, to rise in cidl power nu
more forever.
,
10th verse, " Because thou hast kept the word of my .
patience, I also will keep thee from the hOllr of tempta-
tion which shall come upon all the world to try them that
dwell upon the earth." This part of the prophecy was
fulfilled on or before the French revolution, when Athe-
ism and Deism made such rapid progress through '
Em·ope or the Roman government, which in prophecy is
called the earth. See Rev. xii. 9.
And it is a fact, that
through tills age of profligacy and corruption, the church
retained her principles as pure and with as little defec-
tion as any age in modern times; olthou/;h men of the
world were led away by the plausible wntings of Vol-
taire, Hume, Tom Plline, and others, yet it had no effect
on the Christian church: and the promise, "I will keep
thee from the hour of temptation," was fully and faith-
fully accomplished; and tile very means that Satan used
to destroy the religion of Jesus Christ, or "the twelve
fishermen," was the means of bringing the church out
of the wilderness. And those governments of the world
which had for more than twelve centuries persecuted
the children of God, now gran~d free toleration for all
men to worship God nccordinO' to the dictstes of their
own conscience. And from this period we may sec the
"angel flying through the midst of heaven having the
everlasti~!i gospel to preach to them that dwell on the
earth."
l~OW the church began to awake to the subject
of missions; and while the world was tempted and tried,
the kingdoms of the earth shaken to tlleir centre, (yet
not destroyed ;) while the civil power of the mother of
harlots, the inquisition of Spain, and the horrible means
of torture, p6!'Secution, slavery, anll cruelty, were all
.wept away in one revolution, -
the church, by the power
13 "

lSP
LJ:CTtaE L
of Him who had promised to "keep them," passed
through the fiery ordeal without the smell of fire on her
garmenta,
11th verse, "Behold, I come quickly j hold that fast
which thou hast, that no man take thy crown." In this
verse we have notice of his second coming, and that it
would be quickly; by which I understand that the age
of the seventh church, which was yet to come, would be
short, and the second coming of him, who will overcome
and subdue all things, would be quickly. He likewise
admonishes us to hold fast that which we have, givin~
us, as I understand, warning that the next age of the
church would be an age of' invention j of 10 heres, of
departure from the true faith, of denying the crown of
the church, the twelve stars, the apostles' doctrine. And
amidst tlle confusion of the doctrines and revelatiorts of
the present day, if anyone should inquire of me what
sentiment it would be best for them to embrace, I would
first point them to the Bible, and second, back to the
fathers and teachers of the last century, and say, Hold
fast that they held j let no man take thy crown. Let us
then, my brethren, be watchful, and remember" him that
overcometh will I make 111 pillar. in the temple of my
God, and he shall go no more out j and I will write
upon him the name of my God, lind the name of the city
of my God, which is Ne\v Jerusalem, which cometh
down out of heaven from my God j lind I will write upon
him my new name." The blessings promised in this
text are to be realized when the New Jerusalem comes
down from God out of heaven; then shall the spiritual
born child of heaven be a pillar in the temple of God, in
that building made without hands j then, too, will he
receive that rich inheritance that is laid up in heaven for
those that love God, and there obtain that eternal crown,
that immortal life which is now hid with Christ in God,
and then lind there realize that" blessed hope at the
glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior
Jesus Christ." "And he shall go no more out" of that
glorious temple j no tempting devil there, for..he will be
chained j no persecuting kin~dom, for they will "1111 be
destroyed and carried away like the chaff of the summer

CHIlIST's 8£CQlfD COllII'D.
threshing-floor." Thel). will he receive the new name,
"The Lord our righteousness," for the Lord is there.
Then, too, a citizen of the giorified kingdom, the New
Jerusalem, married to the Lamb, and shall live and reign
with him forever and forever. "He that hath an ear, •
let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches."
This closes the prophecy to the sixth church; and now
let us see to it that we do not lose the blessings promised
by refusing to hear what the Spirit saith to the churches.
Hear, and your souls shall live; disobey, turn a . deaf
ear, refuse the offered grace, and you will die ; for the
Boul that sinneth shall die.
It now remains for me to show the age of the seventh
or Laodicean church, and the characteristic marks of
that church or 81;e.
And if I am right in considering
these churches In a mystical sense, as our text more
than implies, and our argument'> and references strongly
prove, in my humble opinion, then, this part of our sub-
ject becomes doubly interesting to us, who live in the
very age of the fulfilment of this prophecy. Yes, my
brethren, we live at the very time when the great head
of the church says,
14th verse, "And unto the angel of the church in
Laodicea write, These things saith the Amen, th\l faithful
and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God."
Laodicea signifies the judging of the people, and may
have reference to the church in its last stage, when God
would pour ou~ his justice and judgment upon a guilty
world, and upon a haughty, proud, and self-exalted
church, and spue them out of his mouth.
This idea may
be warranted from the subject in connection. The ad-
dress to this ch,urch begins by showing that it is the
closing up of this dispensation, by saying, "These things
saith the Amen." It also teaches us that it commences
the judgment, or prepares for a judgment, by bringing
forward" the faithful and true witness." It also shows
the universality of this judgment by the knowledge of
the witness being "the beginning of the creation of
God."
15th verse, "I know thy works, that tllOlI art neither
cold nor hot: I would thou wert cold or hot." To be
•

lSi
LECTURE X._
neither cold nor hot in religious things implies a pro-
fession of religion without a spiritual life, or the middle
way between the world and Christ; taking much pains
after worldly things, to the nel\'lect of spiritual thmgs i
• endeavoring to move between tile doctrine of Christ and
the doctrine of men; taking the middle ground, as I have
often heatd It expressed.
16th verse, " So then, because thou art lukewann, aud
neither cold nor hot, I will spue thee out of my moutll."
For this cause, that is, because they are engaged more
for show, honors, or profits of this world than for God, he
would spue them out of his mouth. The word lIpue is
used in three places in Scripture, besides the one under
consideration; in Levit. xviii. 28, xx.22, Jer. xxv. 27;
and in all these places stands conne~ted with the judg-
ments of God upon Israel, or the nations spoken of, and _
implies a shaking out or driving from their present'
st:J.nding, either among n3.tionsor in the kingdom of
Christ, as the case may be. And this passage, I suppose,
alludes to the time when God hath promised, s:l.ying,
" Yet once more I shake not the earth only, but also
• heaven," Heb. xii. 26.
So we may expect a shaking
of the church of Christ, if this is the age spoken of, that
those thingJ which cannot be sha.ken may remain. Thi:l,
too, is the age when the wise and foolish virgins are
.. leeping and slumbering togetller.
17th verse, " Because thou sayest, I am rich, and in-
creased with goods, and have need of nothing, and know-
cst not that thou art wretched, and miserable, and poor,
and blind, and nl-ked."
Our he.lvenly Instructor h<l:l
giv.:n us in this verse the I·eason why they are lukewarm;
" b~ca.use thou sayest, I am rich." The church in this
Lllodicaan state, like the rich man, will be laying up
gools, or making gre:l.t calculations for the outward or
worldly cOllcern~ of the church for many ye3.rB to cO:lIC,
building places for worship, establishing colleges, hi;;h
schoJls, a~ademies, theologic:l1 institution3, tu raise up
a popular mittistry, that the world may be pleasJd, th<l
ministry well supported, and th2Y become the lilf'st pupu-
till" sect of llttl d:1Y, " increas0d with goo:1.;;."
T!liJ, tJ "
v! the· church.
What shall be called the goods of the
~i9ltized by Google

t:hurch? It is those contribu\ions which are depositeo
for charitable and pious uses, such as Paul informed his
~rethren to 'lllY by them in store on the first day of the
!Veek. These will be increased to a great and astonish-
IDIf degree in this age of the church. Theological
writings and publications, too, are the goods of the
church: there will be a great increase of these. " Com!)1
Bee what great thmgs we are doing," will be the general
language of the church, and the names of donors and
the sums they contribute will be published through the
world. "And knowest not that thou art wretched."
The corruptions of th~ church will be kept out of sigh.~j
and pride, popularity, self-righteousness, depravity, will
be the besetting sins of the members and great body of
public prpfessors, and few, very few of the lDinisters of
the churches will be v~liant or bold enough to tell them
the truth. "And miserable." Real piety will be very
little enjoyed; the hopes of a, large body of professors
will be but the hope of a hypocrite. "And poor." With-
out a tried faith, suffering but little or no persecution,
the church will lack those riches which are more precious
than fine {rolcl, the trial of their faith. "And blind,"
withont faith, living by things seen more than on the
promises of God. "And naked," having on their own
righteousness. "I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried
in the fire." That is, the Amen, the faithful and trus
witness, counsels the Laodicean church to buy the golq
tried in the fire, which mar mean either that faith which
will stand the fiery trial 0 temptation and persecution,
or that truth wbich is like" apples of gold in pictures
of silver;" "that thou mayest be rich; " rich in faitll or
in the knowledge of -the truth; "and white raiment that
thou 71J.a!Jest be clothed," that raiment which John (jaw
the saints in heaven clothed with, which is the righte-
ousness of the saints, the imputed ris-hteousness of
Christ, "the Lord our righteoUll1le$8."
If It is not so, why
counsel the church to buy of him? Yes, my brethren,
we are counselled to buy a raiment without spot or
wriukle, "and that the shame of thy nakedness do not
appear." Truly, when Christ comes, and we find we have
been trusting in self, although we have called ourselves

1M
LECTtJlLB X.
by his name, we have worn our own clothing, and eat
our own bread, and instead of being Clothed upon, we
shall find ourselves naked. Shall we not be ashamed
before him at his coming, if we are in this situatioD
when he comes? 0, what an awful thought! There-
fore .let us now receive the further admonition, ':And
anoint thine eyes with eye-salve, that thou mayest see."
To 8l\oint the eyes, in a fi~tive. sense, is to examine
the truth and evidences ot Scripture, that we may see
clearly our state and stanQing as it respects our charac-
ter towards God and our hope in hfs future aid, promises,-
and blessings. It is to see our Sillll, and feel the need
'If help, to know our weakness, and trust in his strength
-
in one word, it is to repent and believe in the gospel
of Jesus Christ. For he says, "As many as I love I re-
buke and chasten: be zealous therefore and repent."
Here, then, is one comfortable promise to this lukewarm
church. If there is any tried, ch·astened, penitent soul
in this chl1reh, this Laodicean state or age of the church,
they have the promise of his love, his cverlnstin&, love,
his unchangeable love; his loving kindness he Will not
take ITom him, although he should "visit their trans-
gressions with a rod, and their iniquity with stripes."
Be zealous, therefore, brethren, lind repent.
20th verse, "Behold, I stand at the door and knock."
lie that is the ".8mm" is now at the door. In thill 1.a-
odicean age of the church he comes; . he knocks by his
judgments, by the fulfilment of the signs, by hill word,
by all the. means of grace that God has ever used to
alarm the sleepy, slumbering virgins of his approach.
He gives the cautionary word, "Behold, I stand at the
dour and knock; if any man hear my voice and open the
dool., I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and
lie with me." In this passage of prophecy we are brought
down to the marriage supper of the Lamb -
another
and a strong testimony that the churches are to be con-
sidered in a mystical sense, and the language or subject
prophetical. For this is certainly the safing of Jesus,
the faithful and true witness; " for the testimony of Jesus
is the spirit of prophecy." Rev. xix. 7-9, "Let us re-
joice and be glad, and give honor to him; for the JIIU.
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'a SECOND COMING.
riage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made
herself ready. And to her was granted that she should
be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white j for the fine
linen is the righteollsness of saints.
And he saith untlt
me, Write, Blessed are they which are called to the
marriaO"e supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me,
These ~re the true sayings of God." We see, my friends,
by the similarity of the sentiments given in the marriage
supper, and those admonitions and prophecies to the
Laodicean church, that they mnst mean one and the
same event. To hear the voice of the bridegroom, and
to open the door, and go Ollt to meet him, is the way
which the bride makes herself ready j and his supping
With them and they with him, shows that it is when
Christ shall come, and live, and reign with them.
" '1'0 him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me
in my throne, even as 1 also overcame, and {lin set down
with my Father in his throne." Here is anoUler expres-
sion which proves we arc brought down to the end of
time, " to him t1utt overcometh."
What cnn the faithful
and true witness mean by this expression? He explains
himself, " even as I also overcame." lIow did Christ over-
come when he sat down with his Father? I answer, Dy
bursting the bands of death, by conquering the grave, he
arose a gloriolls conqueror, and was seated at the right
hand of God. Then Illis is the true meaning of the text,
to him, that hath part in the first resurrection, will I Il"fOnt
to sit with me in my throne.
~lessed and holy IS he
that hath part in the tirst resurrection; on such the sec-
ond death hath no power; but they shall be kings and
priests of God, and of Christ, and shall reign with him."
What light m~y we not receive from the word of God,
when talien together, when explained by its own lan-
guage, when kept unbroken! "He that hath an car,
let him hear what the Spirit saith IInto the churclles."
This closes what 1 cali, and what Christ, I think, calls,
a prophecy. " Blessed is he that readeth, and they Ulat
hellr the words of this prophecy, and keep those things
which are written therein j for the time is at hand."
This Laodicean church began about A. D. 1798, and
will last the forty-five years. When this di~pensation

· I.ECTt1JtK X.
WiD elOlle, the udgment will. set, and the boob .m be
opened; the byj,oerit.es will be spued aut of the clmJch,
and the sanctuary cleansed.
Will the situation of the church. the character of.
ChriatilUlB, the doctrines taught, and the ligna of the
times warrant us to believe that we live in the Laodicean
age of the church? Let us for a moment examine the
evidence and see.
1st. The situation of the church, enjoyillJ JIl'&Ce in
lind among the kingdoms of the earth, enjoyt~ all the
privileges oT citizens without persecution, making great
and many improvements in her worldly concerns, rich in
tbia world's gOods, having at her command many millions
of funds, and almost swaying the destinies of the world.
great, learned and rich men enlisting under her banners,
controlling the fashions, C1lstoms, and laws of the day,
swaying a mighty inftuence over the education of our
youth, and giving a general tone to the literature of the
world, increasing her dema!lds for power, establishing
bishoprice, presbyteries, Dli.tionaJ and state conventions,
conferenoes, councils, associations, cODllOciations, socie-
ties innumerable; and all these controlled almost exelu-
sively by her clergy. May we not saytrult," She is rich
and mcreased in goods?" But is this all. No. Look
at her col1e~ theological schools, academies, deposito-
ries, public edifices, presses, theological writings and
publications, in almost every nation, liingdom, state, and
territory, and in this co .. try in almost every cottnty and
town; and all this by contributions. Well may it be
said, she has need of nothin.... These things, too, among
all sects and denomination:, one cannot outdo another
apparently, yet each is strivi~ for the mt3tery.
2d. The chara.cten oj C1arUfttmI ~y. In speak-
mg of the character of our brethren, it becomes the speak-
er to be very careful and unassuming. for God has not
lIIade him a judge over his brethren. Therefore, to judge
this one ia right, and that one wrong, we shall leave for
the judgment seat of Christ. But on a general scale
surely we may be allowed to examine and compare our-
aelvea with the prophecies. In all agt!!! back, Christisns,
when living godly, have been a poor, despised, persecu-
Digitized by Google

CIlJUIT'1 IJl:COlm C:0"1I'CL
.1If
ted people, pilgrims and strangers in the world, plainly
showing that this is not their continuing city, but that
they are seeking one to come. But is it 80 now? Have
not professors generall)" for more than thirty yellJ'8,
been seeking for the nches of this life, for the honors
of the world, and fc.Jlowing the fashions of the times as
greedily as men of the world? Yes. And can we dis-
tinguish a professor of religion in our public assemblies
from a man of the world, except we are infonned? No.
Where, then, do Christians plainly show they seek a
better country? Nowhere. May we not live in the.
same neighborhood with professors for yellJ'8, and not
hear them recommend the religion they profess? Yes.
But do we not hear the same persons talk freely, flippantly,
and zealously about the world, the politics and the fashions
of tile day? Yes. Is it not a general complaint with
all of our churches, of coldnCf's, of a want of spiritUal
life, and a great failure in active spiritual duties? Yes.
Has not a spirit of sloth and supineness seized upon
professors generally? Do not many think, if they have
a hired servant to talk religion, and visit the widow
and fatherless, and keep themselves unspotted from the
world, for them it is enough? Yes. And does not all
this, and much more which might with truth be said on
this point, declare loudly that the professors of Chris-
tianity, generally, are in a lukewarm state? Yes. We
must respond, Yes.
7'11£ doclrine taught.
Here again your speaker feels
a diffidence in speaking on this subject, knowing that
many great, learned, and good men differ on this point j
but we must all stand or fall to our own l\faster, and I
must answer how I speak or shun to declare the whole
counsel of God. Your speaker beHeves that the de-
pravity of the human heart, our dependence on God, and
ind~btedness to grace, .. nrc ahundantly taught in the
Scnptnres. See Eph. 11. 4-13. But how stands this
doctrine with our public proclaimers at the present day?
Some few may preach it, but there is 1lI0re than ten to
one who do not preach it, or, if they do, tlley so s::over it
up by their plausible and speciolls reasoning, that the
force of the doctrine and the object of the inspired

118 .
LECTUlUI ox.
..men are wholly lolt. We are now taught that man
can make himself a Christian as easily as he can turn
about in the highway; that obedience or baptism is re-
generation i that works are the medium of acceptance
with God, and that the righteowm_ of Christ is not
imputed. How can such doctrine be more .clearly
pointed out than it is by the " faithful and true witness"
to the Laodicean church? " And knowest not that thou
art wretched, and miserable, and poor, and blind, and
naked." That is, they know not their depravity. "I
j:ollll88l thee to buy of me (see here their dependence on
God) gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich;
and white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed, that the
shame of thy nakedness do not appear; and anoint thine
eyes with ey_alve, that thou mayest 888." Grace,
grace, from the foundation to the top stone. Surely, my
-dear friends, no candid observer of the doctrine taught
at the present day, but what must in his heart acknowl-
edge that the doctrine taught by many, among the dif-
ferent sects, is the same described by our divine Master
in the prophecy to the Laodicean church.
TM ftgM of u.. timu. In the close of Christ's in-
structions to the church under cOl)8ideration, he says,
" Behold, I stand at the door and knock; if any man hear
my voice," &c. Daniel says," At that time shall Mi-
chael stand up, the great Prince that standeth up for the
children of thy people." And Christ say!.', "For many
shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ, and shall
deceive many." These were particular signs given by
Christ and the prophets. And how have the~e come to
pus? Witness the great and many reformations which
for thirty years have progressed in our land, in Europel
and the islands of the seas. See also the word of God
published, in whole or in part, among all nations. See
the missionaries of the gospel running to and t'ro thronJh
the whole earth. Do not these indicate that Chnst
stands at the door, and that his voice ha:s gone out even
unto the ends of the world, and that Michael has stood
up for the children of thy people? Yas. Again: how
many new lects have arisen, how mand false ChriBts have
come in this blaze of gospel light, an are drawing away
Digitized by Google

CBIUS'I"s Sitcom> COMING.
their hundreds and thousands after them! It is almost
incredible, when we take into view the light and knowl-
edge under which we live; but all go to prove that
Christ is nigh, even at the door.
In reviewing ollr subject, we learn by the events of
the Sardis church, and by the admonitions given, our
duty to guard against the introduction of errors into the
church, nnd to strengthen ourselves in the truth; and
likewise of being active in all the duties of religion, that
we may not only have a name to live, but have the life
and power of the gospel, that we may resist all the
temptations nnd fiery darts of the enemies of the
church.
By the church of Philadelphia, we learn that if we
keep the word of God and the testimony of Jesus Christ,
he will keep us from those triols and judgments which
he sends on an ungodly and rebellious people, and thnt
God has opened a door for the spread of the gospel,
which no power on earth will be able to shut, until the
angel standing on the sea and on the lund, shall swear
that time shaH be no longer. We also learn thc impor-
tance of having brotherly love and perseverance in holy
things, that no man take from us the crown which is laid
up for those that love God, and which will be given to
them who remain steadfast in ChristJesus at his coming,
which is promised quickly to this church.
By the Laodicean church, wc learn the important les-
son that we cannot serve two mnsters; we cl1nnot love
the present evil world, and at thc same time be the ser-
vants of God; that to be lukewarm in religion is to bo
cast out of his presence, and call down the vengeance of
God's final judgment nponour heads, and, while we ma}~
Hatter ourselvcs that we are righteous, find to our ever
lasting shame, that we are wretched, miserable, poor
Wind, nnd naked.
Think, 0 think, my dear friends, you that are trusting
in your o'vn goodness, when that day of justice shall
come, and the faithful and true witness shal! stand
against you, when yonr goodness shaH pass away like the
morning cloud, and the righteous Judge shall pronounce
Diaitizea l)yGoogle

LaCTVU S.
the d.-dfbl I81dieBCe, 'lJqHDi -
wW m1ll& be 10llf
feelinp ! The world, whiCh yoa here wolllbipped, Is
bumiUC up i the Menda witil whom you here lIMOCiated
are goDe to meet tile Lord in the air, or are linking with
you into eadleee and hopeleee misery. The Savior,
whoae name you are now aabamed to owu, or whoa!
righteeU811818 you think you need DOt, ill DOW your Judae,
seated on a great white throne, flOlll whose f/ICe the
heaveJ18 aud the euth un dee away. ThiU, 0 limier!
where wilt tIwu be bIIId I
Dig,tizedbyGoogle
.

LEOTURE XI.
REV. 'r. 9, 10.
ADd tlMy sWIg a Dew SODg', sayinK, Thou art worthy to Iak. 1M
book, aud to open the seals thereor; ror thou wast s1aiD, and
hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out or every kindred,
and tongue, and .,eople, and Dation; and bast made UI unto OBI
God kings and priests; and we shail reigu OD the earth.
THERE is such hannony, beauty, and knowledge m
every part of the word of God, that the Bible student,
whose heart is interested in the same, has often, while
reading, been led to stop and admire the order, wisdom,
and li/{ht which burst upon his enraptured vision, at the
unfoldmg of the figures and truths which until that mo-
ment, perhaps, lay in darkness, doubt, and obscurity, and
leemed to be wrapped up in a mysterious veil.tl\at al·
most makes the reader qua.il, and come to \tei:?mclu-
sion that he is treading on forbidden ground l'tbut, perhap.. ...
in an unexpected moment, the inspired penman, seem-
ingly having anticip"lted our ignorance or darkness,
throws out a spark of that live coa.l which had touched
his lips, and our darkness is dispelled, i~orance vanishcs
before the fulness of knowledge of me wqrd of God,
and we stand rcproved and admonish ... d for oiIr 'IItupidity
and ignorance in the fignres arid truths before explained.
Our text is a brilliant sp!I.Tk of that fire which 18 upon
the altar between the cherubimJ, and gives us a clear
ray of light to discover the allusion of the fi!nlrcs con-
tained in the fourth and fifth chapters·ofthisfook. It is
. conveyed unto us by way of a chorus, like the angel'.
14 II
Digitized by Google

ltD
LBCTUU XI.
IIIOIIg at the birth of our Savior in Bethlehem of Judea.
It explains to us in a divine song what tho four beast.
are, and gives a key to unlock the mystery of the twenty-
four elden, and cleuly shows who opens the seals of
the book. I shall, in illustrating this subject, inquire
L Who they were that sung this new song ;
n. Show the song, and tile occasion of it; and,
III. Speak of the reign and the place where.
~. Weare to inquire who are the singers in this
grand chorus. The prophet calls them " the four
beasts," or, as it might have been more properly transla-
ted, four _mate beinp; and the "four and twenty
elders," he also calls them" saints," See the 8th verse,
" And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and
fbur and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, hav-
ing every one of them harps and golden vials full of
odOrs, which are the prnyers of the eaint&" Then comes
in our text," And they BUng a new song," &c. The
four beasts is a fiaourative representation of the whole
NewTetStament cnurch, nllt only in character, but iii
chronology,re}li'eseDting the four clliferent stages of trial
through which ~e church shouid pass in her pilgrimage
in the 'wildernesl of this world, before she would enter
the viiib1e kingdom of her glorious Redeemer, the New
J erusa1em, and reign on the euth. And every individ-
ual Christian, who lllI.y live any length of time after"'his
coDVepi!ion, passes through some or iL1J. of these states of
trial. ,'l'h.four and tweuty elders ue the twelve patri-
archs, w~c .are sometimes called pr&pha" and the
twelve' a
es of the Lamb. For it is said, we are
built on
e prophets and apostles, Jesus Christ being
the chief comer-stone; and figuratively it lllI.y represent
the faithful and true ministers of Je8US Christ, the same
as the twenty-four courses of the priesthood under the
Jewish economy. See 1 Chron. xxiv. 7-19. And the
four beasts are typified by the four grand divisions of
the Jewish camp under Moses. The first, on the east,
was 1.0 follow the standard of Judah j that on the south
side, and second in the march, was the standud of Reu-
ben; on the west side, Ephrailn, and his, was the third
ltandud in tbe much; on the north side waa Dan' •.
Digitized by Google

CB&lsT'e IKcon COIlUS.
163'
standard and Dan broug:ht up the rear in the march of
the Jews t1trough the Wilderness. What their several
standards were, I cannot tell, except that of Judah,
which marched in front, immediately after the ark, which
in all probability was a lion. And our "first beast"
under consideration was "like a lidn, and the second
beast I ike a calf, and the third beast had a face 118 a man,
and the fourth beast was like a flying eagle." These
represent the four grand divisions of the gospel church.
The first represents the church in the apostolic age,
when the church went forth, bold as a lion, preaching
and proclaiming the gospel among all nations. The
second state or division of the church was the times of
persecution and slaughter by the Roman emperors,
represented by the calf. The third state of the church
was in Constantine's day, when the church enjoyed
privileges 118 a man, and became independent, and like
a natural man, proud, avaricious, and worldly. The
fourth and last state of trial was when the anti-Christian
beast arose j and, under the scourge of this abomination,
the church having two wings given her, like the wings
of an eagle, she flew into the Wilderness, where, a place
being prepared for her, she is nourished from the face of
the serpent a thousand two hundred and threescore
days, Rev. xii. 6, 14.
This of course would include the whole Christian
church until Christ's second coming, when anti-Christ
will be destroyed, and the church delivered from all
her foes, and brought into her New Jerusalem state,
where John now sees in hiS' vision the whole family of
the redeemed, singing the grand chorus as in the verses
following our text. "And I beheld, and I heard the
voice of many angels round about the throne, and the
beasts, and the elders j and the nnmber of them was ten
thousand times ten thousands and thousands of thou-
sands." In this vision John has the same view which
Daniel had in his vision. See Daniel vii. 10. Daniel
saw the same throne, and the same nnmbers stood before
it j which proves, almost beyond a doubt that Daniel's
vision carries us into the eternal, immortal, and glorified
,.

LaCTOU XL
state; for John, in the nat V8lIIeI, carries us mt.o the
eternal state of the righteous.
12th verse, " Sa.ying with a loud voice, Worthy is the
Lamb that was slain to receive power, and riches, and
wisdom, and strength, and honor, and glory, and blessing.
And every creature which is in heaven, a{ld on the
earth, and under the earth, and such as are in the sea,
and all that are in them, heard I saying, Blessing, and
honor, and glory, and power, be UDto him that sitteth
upon the throne, and unto the Lamb forever and ever.
And the four beasts said, Amen. And, the folll' and
twenty elders fell down and worshipped him that liveth
forever and ever." N.othing can be more evident than
that John here saw the whole family of the redeemed,
as they will be after the first resurrection; for h~ gives
the several situations of every part of the whole family
as ther actually were, that is, m body, or the situation
of thClr bodies at that very time when he' was writing,
"every creature," that is, in person, in their bodies, as
they will be after the resurrection; not all mankind, as'
some vainly suppose, but, those who are redeemed, or
who may hereafter be redeemed, " out of every kindred,
and tongue, and people, and nation." See our text. If
it had been" all nations," &c., he would not have said;
"out of," &c. Therefore we must take the whole in
connection. But John saw every creature whose boliies
then were some of them in heaven, as Enoch and Elijah ;
every creature who was then alive on the earth, like him-
self and brethren; every body of the saints that had
slept and been buried under ground, or in the sea, and
all the saints who were yet in the loins of their father15. '
In one word, he saw the whole general assembly, and
church of the firlit born, whose names were written in
the Lamb's book of life. These four beasts are the same
living creatures which Isaiah saw when he had a view
of the glory of God. lIa. vi. 1-3, "In the year that
king Uzziah died, I saw also the Lord sitting upon'
throne, high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple.
AbQve it stood the seraphims; each one had six wings:
with twain he covered his face, and with twain he
Digitized by Google

CBBIST', Isee" COMIlI'G.
covered his feet, and with twain he did fly. And one
cried unto another, and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord
of hosts; the whole earth is full of his glory." Ezekiel
also s
the same living creatures that Isaiah calls" se-
raphims," and John "four beasts." Ezekiel calls them
"cherubims." See Ezek. i. and x. chapters. John says,
Rev. iv. 8, "And the four beasts had each of them six
wings about him," the same as Isaiah's "seraphims."
These wings are the graces of the Spirit, as is strongly
implied by Ezekiel i. 12, "And they went everyone
straight forward; whither the spirit was to go, they
went; and they turned not when they went." " With
two they covered their face "-humility and repentance;
"with two they covered their feet "-that is, they walked
by two of the graces, faith and patience, faith in God
and patient in tribulation; "and with two they did fly "-
hope and love. They" mount up with wings as eagles ;
they shall run and not be weary, walk and not faint,"
says the prophet Isaiah, xl. 31. And again John says,
they were "full of eyes before and behind, and they
were full of eyes within;" showing that they woult!
have just views of sin, of God, and his word, and of
themselves: they could look back and see their sins,
and the pit from which they had been delivered, and
with gratItudo remember their Redeemer. They could
with eyes of faith look forward and believe in the
promises of God, and have a view of the glory that
shall be revealed at his second coming. With eyes
within, they could look into their own hearts, and see the
remaining corruption and hidden depravity that lie
lurking in every corner of the soul, and by this means
put oifthe old man with his deeds. 'l.'hey are represent-
ed by John as being praying souls, "and golden vials
full of odors, which are the prayers of saints." Every
one had these vials, says John. How then, I ask, can
the prayerles9 man or woman think to join this celestial
throng? "Having everyone of them harps; " showing
that all of them would have new hearts, be born of God;
so they would be enabled to sing in the New Jerusalem
state the new song.
These are the characters and persons which John saw

J&C'1'1IU XL
represented by tAt fovr oml It.DmIy eldm· and t1te frnil
NiutI. I shall now,
.II. Show what we may understand by the new song,
and the occasion of it.
•
The prophet John had been led by the anlfeithroup
leven different stages of the church, by the v18ion of die
mystery of the seven starB and seven golden candlesticka,
under the name of the sevl'.n churches of Asia, which
ought to be understood symbolically down to the time
when the judge stands at the door ready to enter in to
the supper of the ~t
God, when all wicked flesh will be
destroyed, and till the marriage supper of the Lamb
arrives, whon all the ril[hteoll8 Will be raised, enter into
the glorified state, andlive and reign with him on earth.
Then it is perfectJy natul'd that after we had read the
history of the church through all her trials, persecutions,
and imjJerrections, we shoUld be led· to see her deliver-
ance on the other side of the banks of Jordan, or beyond
the power of death, and to hear a part, at least, of that
new song which no man can sing un!ess he is redeemed
from the earth.
'
In· the second and third chapters of Revelation, we
have the history of the church, as I have endeavored to
mow in my lect.urell on the churches. In the fourth and
fifth chapters we have a view of the glorified state, and
the characters given of those who will enjoy the privilege
of that state, the song which will employ the golden harps,
and the .. place where. The characters I have already
given. The song is represented as a fielD 1OfIg •• Itis fleU/
6ecause it is BUDg only in that state where all things are
made new. Bee 2 Pet. iii. 13," N evertheleaa we, accord-
ing to his promise, look for new heavens and a new earth,
wlierein dwelleth righteoumess." Rev. xxi. 5, " And he
that At upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things
Dew." Now John aaw, in Rev. iv. 2, the urne throne,
'and him that At upon it, and in the verse above quoted
he speaks as though he had mentioned before "bim that
aat u~n the throne." And as he has notmentioned him
in this ~e
in any other place, we mlly have strong
reason to lielieve that the time and subject matter is the
..... in the 4th chapter of Revelation as in the 21st.
Digitized by Google

CDJUSTS SECOlm COMll'lG.
167,
chapter. Again: W8 are eXpreB8ly told that no' man
could learn the _~,
but thOle who are redeemed
from the earth, Rev. XIV. 3. And redemption from the
earth is no where lpoken of until the resurrection of the
body. Christ laya, in Luke xxi. CZ1, 28, "And then shall
they lee the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power
and great glory. And when these things begin to come
to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads, for your
redemption draweth nigh." And Paul says, Rom. viii.
23, "Even we ourselve3 groan within ourelves, waitinG'
for tire adoption, to wit, the redemption of our bodies. i
In this state they CJlll sing," For thou wast slain, and
hast redeemed us to God by thy blood, out of every
kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation." It is also
a holy sona ; for they cry, "and reat not day ami night,
saying, H.;\y, holy, holy Lord God Almi~hty, which was,
and is, and is to come." The church lD this state are
not all boly; they have but a faint view of the holiness
of God's character, his law or government; neither could
they endnre the sight; for when God has seen fit to re-
voal a small part of his holiness, men have fainted under
it. Isaiah cried out," Woe is me." Ezekiel fell upon
his face, Ezek. i. 28. Daniel's· comelinSS3 was tur!led
into Qorruption, BO that ho retained no strength, Dan.
x. 8. Therefore it is, evident that this holy song can
only be sung in a state of immortality, when we shall
be holy, even as G1>d is holy. This new and holy sonlf
. will not cease, for they rest not day and night, whicn
proves it to be in the eternal sbte. And the dress and
crowns of the elders," clothed in white raiment," nnd
they had on their hends "crowns of gold," and they
"cast theIr crowns before the throne, Baying, Thou art
worthy,O Lord, t'l receive glory, and bonor, and power"-
nil proves that the new song is sung after the second
coming of ollr Lord Jesus Christ; for Paul tells us, that
a crown is laid up for him which the righteous Judge
shall give him at' that day; and 1I0t only him, but to all
them also that love his appearing. So neither the eMers
nor the beuts can sing this new song until the New
Jer:!lSalem is furmed, their bodies redeemed from the
earth, and they brought into the eternal state of the
Digitized by Google

LBCTVU XI.
rightsoua. It will not be 8l1li1 until the Jut child ill
bOrn into the kinlldom -
the last enemy conquerecl-
the elect gathered from the four winds of heaven, and
the cap stone brought forth, when the heavens will
ring WIth this general chorus. " Holy, holy, holy is the
,t.ord God Almighty: blessing, and honor, and ,lory, and
power, be unto him that sitteth upon the throne, and
unto the Lamb forever and ever; and the four beast. will
lay, AmeD."
IlL I shall now show the reign spoken of in our text,
and the place where.
There is much speculation at the present day on the
reign of Christ on the earth, which is promised in his
word, and in the text. Some have supposed that it
would be purely spiritual, by the Holy Spirit's influence,
when all, or a large share of mankind who then should
lie on the earth, would be regenerated and become the
subjects of his spiritual kingdom; that there would be
no tempting devil to deceive, nor any kin~oms on the
earth, but what would be subject to ChrISt's spiritual
reign, and the church would enjoy a long Sabbath of
rest; and the long-desired period of some who profess
to be the servants of Christ would come; when church
and state would be united, and war would cease to the
end of the world, and the world would increase in riches,
arts, and science to an amazing degree, beyond any thing
we have yet conceived j thousands would inhabit the
earth where there are but tens now, and man would live
to a good old age, and nations be born in a day. This
theory is the most rational one I have been able to di&-
cover, aside from the glorious reign of Christ with his
people in a state of immortality.
To the above theory I have many scriptural objections.
AltholJgh the advocates of this theory call it lIJ'irituaI,
yet a large share, if-not all, are temporal bleslllDgs of
tbis kingdom, and are eA'1lctly the same that the Jews
believed they should po88ess at Christ's first coming.
Again: they must suppose, if this be true, that the
rulers of the world must all be Christians, or professedly
80. Then what mUst we say to Christ's words," My
kln~dom iii not of t1lis world"? and again, "In the
Digitized by Google

CHRIST's SECOlQ) COKING.
worldle shall have tribulation" ? The world hate )'0Ut
and i ye live godly, ye shall iuft"er persecution, antl
these (meaning the whole family of the redeemed) have
come out of much tribulation. How could those Dl11lion8
who are born or live in this happy period, come out of
great tribulation? Bot where do the -advocates of the
above system prove their doctrine? Some pretend to
bring the same passages in the Old Testament that the
Jews did, to prove their temporal kinllrlom over the
Gentiles, and do not see that much of die Old Testa-
m&nt prophecy WaR, and has been fulfilled in its typical
sense. And it is very easy to show that the passages
they pretend to bring in the Old Testament were aU
fulfilled 1800 years ago.
'
But, if they had believed in this theory, would not
some of the New Testament writers have mentioned this
important period? I remember, when I was but a child,
of hearing an old minISter of the gospel make a remark
like this: -" All the Old Testament prophecies," said
he, "which were not. fillfilled when Christ came in the
flesh, are carried into the New Testament, and further
explained." I then thought there was reason and pro-
priety in the remark; I think so still, for the two wit-
nesses must and will Ilgree. And where do the believ~
era in this system bring us one word from Christ? Not
one. But we can mo,., much to the contrary.
The
parable of the tares and the wheat carries us to the end
of the world; and he expressly says, "Let them grow
together unpl the harvest." His prophecy and parables
in Matt. xxiv. and xxv. give us a prophecy until. his
second coming, and not a word about a happy period
previously, but much about 10 heres, and 10 theres, and -
wicked servllnts beating and bruising their fellow-ser-
vanta, and eating and drinking with the drunken, saying
ill their hearts, My Lord delayeth his coming. Can this
be a millennium? No. _ Too much devil in such COIl-
duct as this. Where does Paul, a very prominent writer,
give uS a hint of these important things? He must have
understood the Old Testament as well as some, if not
all, of our modern divines. But he, too, has given the
reverse. In his epistle to the Theslalonians, he tells UI
Digitized by Google

LECTVU XI.
plainly, "Then sball that wicked be revealed, whom the
Lord Shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and de-
lItroy by the brightness of his coming," 2 ThetIS. ii. In
biB 2 Thellll. i., he tells them of the necessity of patience
and faith in all their persecutions and tribulations; which,
he says, is a manifltilt token of the righteous judgment
of God; and then goes on to show Christ's coming, and
destruction of an ungodly world; nothing that looIra like
a millennium in tillS, or any part of Paul's writings, be-
fore Christ's aecond coming. Where, then, shall we
find it in the New Testament? Perhaps they may say
in Rev. xx.; but this chapter can never be given to them
until ther do away the first resurrection; for all in that
chapter IS after tile first resurrection, and, of course, is
after the personal and second coming of the Savior; and
oll the arguments to do away or destroy the word 7WIU'-
rediD" are 80 futile and weak that it needs no argument
to refute them; for what could do it in that place might
in every other case, and we should be Sadducees at
once. James, Peter, and Jude mention the last days in
their epistles, and describe them as being very wicked,
yet make no mention of a day of the spread of the gos-
pel in this wonderful manner. James speaks of their
heaping up treasures for the last days. .. Behold, the
hire of the laborers who have reaped down your fields,
which is of you kept back by fraud, crieth; and tile cries
of them which have reaped are entered into the ears of
the Lord of SabaotIL Ye have lived in pleasure on the
earth, and been wanton: ye have nourished your hearts
as in a day of slaughter. Ye have condemned and killed
the just; and he doth not resist you. Bel.atient, there-
fore, brethren, unto the comjn~ of the Lor ,for the com-
ing of the Lord dra weth nigh.' Can this be the millen-
nium? No! unlellll proud, earth1r plelUlllre, wantonness,
and murder, are the spirit of theIr millennium. Yet, if
it is temporal, this would be the most likely fruili; if we
judge oCthe future by the past; for the greater the tem-
poral blellllings, the greater is man's rebellion. Read
the second and third chapters of 2 Peter, where he ex-
pressly speaks of the last days. "Knowing thill first,
that there shall come, in the last days, acolfers, walking
\ ..

after their own lusts, and sayiDg, Where is the fl'ODUH.
of his coming?" &C., agreein(t with what Christ said the'
wicked ministers would be domg when he comes. They
would say in their heartll, My LOrd delayeth his coming.
Can there be this happy ·time described in the above
theory? All must answer, No. Then let this suffice as
answer to the above theory, until our opponents prove
their own sentiments by the word.
There are many
more branches of the above system, but none that I have
seen but are liable to the same objections.
I shall now undertake to prove that this reign is in the
immortal state, after the resurrection; that Christ will
be present with his people, and, of course, persoDBlly,
and that it will be on the earth.
I. Then I am to prove that it will be immortal after
the resurrection.
.
The present reign is called, in Scripture, a reign of
grace; "So might grace rei~ through righteousnen
unto etemallife, by Jesus Chnst our Lord." This reign
has been ever since Christ was in the wodd, for 1800
years past. We shall now show that this reign must
continue until after the resurrection of the dead. See
I Cor. xv. ~26; "But every man in his own order;
Christ the first troits, (resurrection;) afterwards they that
are Christ's at his coming. Then cometh the end, when
lie shall have given up the kingdom to God, even the
Father; when he shall put do"n all rule, and all author-
ity and power. For he must reign till he hath put all
enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be
destroyed.is death." Here we have plain Scripture that
the I11me reign of grace must continue unto etemallife;
anfilm the other text, until the resurrection of them that
an!' Christ's, and death, the last enemy to the church, is
destroyed. Where, then, ahan we get in a spiritual or
temporal reign? We see evidently there is no change
of the reign of Christ in the gospel or grace, from the
apoetlea' days until the time comes when'tire saints shall
p~
the kingdom in the immortal state. Paul says,
Rom. v. 17, " For if by one man's oWence death reigned
by one, much more they which receive abundance of
Digitized by Google

I'D
LBCft1U lU. "
grace IIld of the ~
of ri2bteouaneu, sball reign in life
"&y one, Jesus Christ." I1ere the saints are promised to
reign after the gift of righteousness, (which the righteoUl
Jud~ shall give all those who love his appearing at that
day,) in life, that is, etemallife. See 21st verse. 1 Pe~
ter v. 4, "And whlln the chief Shepherd shall appear;
ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not.away."
This must, of course, be in the immortal state, for il
&deth not away.
II. That Christ will be present with his people in ..
state of immortality, can hardly be doubted when we
read such texts as theae:-John xii. 24, "If any man
serve me, let him follow me ; and where I am, there also
shall my servant be." Again, John xiv. 3; "And if I
go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and
,receive you to myself; that where I am there ye m-r be·
also." So much for Christ's promise to his disciples •
. And now let us read bis prayer to his Father on this
point, John xvii, 24, "Father, I will that they, also,
whom thou hast given me; bo with me where I am, that
they mily behold my glory." Paul says, 1 Then. iv. 17,
"And 80 shall we ever be with the Lord." " For it doth
not yet appear what we shall be; but we know that
when he ahall apgear, we shall be like him; for we shall
aee him as he is.
Our text says, "And hast made us
unto our God kings and priests."
Rev. xx. 4, 6, "And
they lived and reigned WIth Christ-" " And shall reign
with him."
xxi. 3, " And I heard a great voice out of
heaven, saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with
men, and he ~ill dwell with them, and they shall be his
people, and God himself shall be with them, and be
their God."
IlL "And we shall reign on the earth," says our teli.~
Not under ita preaent dispenSation, but after it is cleansed
by fire; after the wicked are destroyed by fire, &8 the
antediluvians were by water, after the tesurrection of the
saints, and when Christ's prayer, taught to his disciples.
shall be answered, " T"1 fDill be done Ofl eort/&, ftIeft IJI in
~.. When the bnde has made berself ready. and
married to the bridegroom, he will then mov'e, h8l' into
Digitized by Google

CBaJlIT'S BJ:COlQ) COiliNG.
til" New Jerusalem state, prepated as a bride adorned
for her husband. where we shall reign with him forever
and ever on the new earth and ill the new heavens;
"and God shall wipe away all tearB from their eyes,
and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow nor
crying, neither shall there be anI more pain; for the
former things are passed away.
Then the whole
earth " shall be full of his glory;" and then, as says the
prophet Isaiah, Iiv. 5, "For thy Maker is thine husband;
the Lord of Hoats is his name; and thy Redeemer, the
Holy One of Israel; the God of the whole earth shall
he tie called."
And then, my dear hearer, if you have had your heart .
broken off' from sin; if you have by ti.ith been united in
spirit to the Lamb of God j if you have patiently endured
tribulation and persecution for his name,-then you will
live and reign with him on the earth, and this earth will
be regenerated by fire and the power of God. the cursed
destroyed, sin, pain, crying, Barrow, and death banished
from the world, and mortality clothed upon by immor-.
tality, death swallowed up in victory •. You will rise up
in that general aaembly, and clappmg your hands with
joy, cry, "Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almia-hty,
which was, and is, and is _
eome." Then you will be
in a situation to join the grand chorus, and sing the new
song, saying, "Thou art worthy, for thou wast slain, and
hast tedeemed UB to God by thy blood. out of every
kindred. and tongue, and people, and nation, and hast
made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall
reign on the earth, saying, with a loud voice, Worthy is
the Lamb that was slain to receive power, and riches,
and wisdom, and Btrength, and honor, and glory, and
blessing." And all who meet in that grand IUUI8IIlbly
will be then heard to about,,, Blessing, and honor, and
glory, and power be unto him thatsittetb upon the throne,
and unto the Lamb forever and ever." And methinks I
can now see every one who loves our Lord and Savior
Jesus Christ in this 'assembly, rising upon their feet, and
in one united praler of faith, crying, .. Come, Lord Jesu ..
o come quickly.
.
~.
.
Digitized by Google

LEC'l'IJU XI.
Bat you, 0 impenitent man or woman, where will
JOu be then? When heaven shall resound with the
lnighty song, and distant realms shall echo back the
sound, where, tell me, where will you be then? In hell!
o think! . In 1&eU! a. dreadful word! I Once more think I
In hell! lifting up your eyes, beiag in torment. Stop,
Binner; think! In hell! where shall be weeping, wail-
ing, and gnashing of teeth: Stop, sinner, stop; cousider
on your latter end. III hell! "where the beast and
false prophet are, and shall be tonnented day and night
forever and ever." 1 entreat of lOU to think - ill hell!
1 know you hate to hear the wor. It sounds too harsh.
There is no music in it. You say it grates upon the
ear. But think, when' it grates upon the soul, the con-
science, and the ea.r, and not by sound only, but a dread
reality, when there can be no respite, no cessation, no
deliverance, no hope! You will then think, yes, of this
warning, ora thousand others, perhaps of this hour, with
many more that are lost i yes, w0t88 than 10llt, that
have been squandered in earthly, vain, and transitory
mirth, have been abused i for there have been many hours
the Spirit &trove with yon, and you prayed to be excused.
There was an hour when -conscience spake j but you
Itopped yonr ears and would not hear. There was a
time when judgment and reason whispered j but you soon
drowned their cry by calling in. some aid against your
own soul. To judgment and reason you have opposed
flIill and wit, and said, "ill hell," was only ill the grave. In
this vain citadel, on this frail house of sand, you will
Imild, until the last seal is broken, the last trump will
sound, the last woe be pronounCed, and the last. Vial be .
poured upon the earth. Then, impenitent man 01" woman,
you will awake.in everlasting woe!
.
.
Be wlll1led; repent; fly, tiy for succor to the ark of
God, to Jesus CIu1st, the Lamb that once was slain, that
you might live, for he is worthy to receive all honor,
• ~wer, and glory. Believe, and you shall live. Obey
his word, his spirit, his calls, his invitations; there is no
time for delay; put it not oft; I beg of you; no, not for D
moment. Do you want to join that heavenly choir and
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECOND COIIDNG.
sing the RetD ~, Then come in God's appointed
way; repent. Do you want a house not made with
hands, eternal in the heavens? Then join in heart and
lOul this happy people, whose God is the Lord. Do you
want an interest m the New Jerusalem, the beloved
city? Then aet·your filee 88 a flint Zion-ward; become
a pilgrim in the gtJOd old way. " Seek first the kmgdom
of heave.," says Christ, "and then all theee things ahall
be added unto you."
Digitized by Google
...

'-
LECTURE XIl.
REV. v. 5.
ADd 0l1li of the elders oalth unto me, Weep hot: bebold, the Lion of
the tribe of Judah,lhe rool of Duid, hath praftiled to opeD the IIook .
and to 1..- the seveD seal. thereof.
TaE book of Revelation bas been called by tnousandI
a l8aled book; and many a dear aaint, while in this im-
perfect state of vision and knowledge, bas wept much,
because they cO!tld not read and understand the book.
For it is very evident that the book of Revelation is not
only interesting in its symbolical and mystical descri~
tiona, natural scenery, and figurative language, but it IS
rich in truth, and the communication of events then hid
under the veil of futurity, and would only be unfolded
to the natural visions of men, many ages to come. John
bas written this book after the laws of nature; that is,
he bas l8emed to copy after some of the richest and
most ~icturesque scenes in nature's laws. lIe haa, in
revealmg truths to our minds, followed the same steady
course that fountsins of water do in their course to the
sea. He begins as' it were back uJlOn the mountains,
where the head may be but a fountain, and there gives
ns a description of the source. He then glides gently
along through the vale below, winding between hiDe and
mountains, visiting in his course the hamlets of the
peasant, the villages of men, the populous toW'DB and
cities of commerce, until he lands us or leaves us in the
ocean of eternity. 'At first, he appears to be describing
IIOIIl8 bubbling fountain or gentle spring, and swellini
\ .
~,
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECOND COlllIl'IG.
in importance HS he proceeds, brings in and adds every
important stream of event, deeperul and widens in his
course, until he makes his prophetic history like a deep-
flowing river, bearing upon its bosom the gallant ships
and galley with oars. At fiplt, he describes a pebbly
brook murmuring along the hills, now and then bursting
into view with some gentle fall, then gliding sonly
away, until it meets some rugged head-land, shifts its
course, and almost seems to retrace its path j then, sud-
denly bursting from the hilla in cataracts of foam, bound-
ing from rock to rOck, leaping into the vale below, he
again seems to follow the alluvial flats and receives his
tributary streams, winds on his way, until it falls at its
mouth by a tremendous leap into a gulf of waters, and
is swallowed up in the waves of the sea.
Fourtimes the Revelation seems to bring us down in
this manner, as though he had begun on one mountain.
and traced four different streams of history down to the
great ocean of eternity j like the river of Eden, which
watered the garden, becoming four heads of four great
rivers, which watered lind encompassed the whole land,
taking different points of the compass, but falling at last
into the ocean, Gen. ii. 10-14; and all these having
Beven tributary steams in their course.
The seven
churches of Asia is a history of tho church of Christ in
her seven forms, in all her windings and turnings, in all
her prosperity and adversity, from the days of the apos
tles down to the end of the world. The seven seals are
a history of the transactions of the power>!' and kings of
tho earth over the church, and God's protection of his
people during the same time. ' The seven trumpets aro
0. hIStory of seven peculiar and heavy judgmonts sont
upon the earth, or Roman kingdom. And the seven
vials are the seven last plagues sent upon Papal Rome.
Mixod with these are many other events, woven in like
tributary streams, and filling up the grand riVEll" of proph-
ecy, until the whole ends us in the oceo.n of eternity.
'I'his, to me, is the plan of John's prophecy in the book
of Revelation. And the man who wishes to understand-
this book, must have a thorough knowledge of other parts
of the word of God. The figures and metaphors used

J78
LECTUJLE DL
in this prophecy, are not all explained in the 181De, but
mlJ8t be found in other prophets, and explained in other
passages of Scripture. Therefore it is evident that God
has designed the study of the whole, even to obtain II
clear know ledge of any part. I shall then pursue the
following method:-
I. Explain the book. which was in the right hand of
him who sat on the throne.
II. Give the history of the seven seals, and their
opening.
I. I am to explain what is meant by the book.
The book is often spoken of in the word of GOd.
Sometimes we hear it spoken of as a little book, open,
in the hands of the angel j and sometimes it is command-
ed to be sealed up; and sometimes to be unloosed, as in
our text. The question arises, What can this book mean?
It cannot mean the book of Revelation, for John was'
commanded not to seal the lByings of· this book, Rev.
xxii. 10. Neither could it be the propheciet!, for they
were commanded to be read every Sabbath day by the
Jews, and were BO read. Yet Jolin tells us, in our con-
text, "That no man, neither in heaven, nor in earth, nor
under . the earth, was able to open the book, neither to
look thereon; and I wept much, b.use no man was
found worthy to open and to read the book, neither to
look thereon." We see, plainly, that it could not apply
to the law, nor the prophets, to the Old 01 New Testa-
ments, for these were committed to the J ewe, and also
unto us Gentiles, and were to be read by all men; but
this book they could not open, read, nor look thereon.
There is one more book which BllBwere to John's de-
scription, which no man, neither in heav8n,noron ~rth,
DOr undtlr the earth, has yet been able to look- thereon,
or open and read, as we have any account of j and which,
according to the whole tenor of the Scripture, will never
be opened, read, or looked upon, until the last seal is
broken, and the judgment sits.. "And I saw the dead,
small and great, stand before God j and the' books were
opened j' a.rul anolkr book t/H.I8 ~
which u the book
ttl life; and the dead were ju~d
weut of those tIIiqa
whiCh were written in the boob.
In this book, whiCh
Digitized by Google

CBlUST's SECOND cOllui&.
is called the book oJ life, the names of all the redeemed
in heaven, in earth, or under the earth, are written,
which are not known to any man, neither will be known,
until the last seal is broken open; for the judgment will
declare who is on the Lord's side. For the apostle tells
us, plainly, "Our lives are hid with Christ in God; that,
when he appears, then we shall appear with him in glo-
ry." And John tells us, Rev. xxi. 26, fll, "And they
shall bring the /flory IUld bonor of the nations into it,
and there shall 1D no wise enter into it any thing that
defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or
maketh a lie; 11ut tbeg which are written in the Lamb'.
book Qf ·'ife!' "And whoaoever was not found written
in the "book of life, was caSt into the lake of fire." Again:
" And they whose names were not written in the book
of life, from the foundation of the world, shall wonder,"
&c. This book, ahhough we are abundantlr informed
there is one, in the right hand of him that sltteth upon
the throne, no man, as 11'0 are any where informed, has
been able to look upon it, or open it, or to read its con-
U>nts. This, then, IS the book, on Recount of which
John wept to know its contents. And so it has been
with all Christians. They are anxious to know whether
their names are written in the Lamb's book of life. But
you must finn learn, my dear brother in Christ, to live by
faith; and faith, too, founded on the book in which you can
look -
of which you may fl'ad the promises, the proph-
ecies, and commands. But into the book of life you can
never look, until the Lamb of God shall op.en the seventh
seal, and the righteous dead be raised, to meet with the
dear Savior in that wprld of glory, when the book will
be opened in the presence of the universe, and he will
own you as his, and crown you wiili joy unspeakable IUld
full of glory.
.
.
n. I shall ROW "!{ive ilie history of tile seven seala,
with the time of their opening. After the prophecy of
tile seven churches, in the 2d and ad chapters of Reve-
lation,lohn bua view of ilie heavenly host, singing the
grand. song, and gives us a description of ilie heavenly
choir, and a part of the song. He likewise introduces
the book, "ale4 with seven seals, and aho_ who CIUI
Digitized by Google
•

ISO
LECTl1U xu.
open tho book, in thefonrth and fifth chapters. These
we have attended to, in a former lecture.
We ehall now begin with the sixth chapter, 1st verse,
" And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals;
and I heard, as it were the noise of thunder, one of the
fOllr beasts, saying, Come and see. And I saw, and be-
hold, a. white horse, and he that sat on him had a bow;
and a crown was given unto him; and he went forth
conquering and to conquer." The" beast," in this pas-
sage, is the first, which was like a lion, representing the
church in its first state, in the days of the apostles, when
the church went every where, preaching the word, bold as
a lion. The white horse, and him that sat upon Wm, rep-
resent Jesus Christ going forth in the power of the gos-
pel. This is proved by the p!lBSage, Rev. xix. 1I-13,
" And I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse;
and he that sat upon him was called Faithful and True,
and in righteousness he -doth judge and make war. His
eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many
crowns; and he had a name written ,that no man knew
but he himself; and he was clothed in a vesture dipped
in blood; and his name is called The Word of God."
This is the same personage as the other, and both places
represent the same thing, only the first description is rep-
resenting the spread of the ,gospel in the beginning or
the gospel day, the other at the end of the gospel period,
under which we are now living. 'Therefore tbe first seal
opens with the promulgation of the gospel, as the last
will be closed by the same. 3d and 4th verses, "And
when he had opened the second seal, J heard the, second
beast say, Come and see. And there went out ano'ther
horse, that was red; and power was given to him that
sat thereon to take peace, from the earth, and that they
should kill one another; and there was given unto him a
great sword." The red horse denotes-blood and carnage,
and has reference to the timell of JlBrsecution in the days
of Nero and other Roman emperors, and answers to the
lame time as the Smyrna church. " Given unto him a
great sword," shows that the power would have great all-
thority. The second beast spoken of in this passage is
Ule repreiJ6ntation of the churob, which was like ~ calG
Digitized by Google

CBRISl"S SECOND COKING.
til
wing
the
reh
d be
n to
aug
like a calf fatted for the market, during the period of the
ning f this seal, which
riod lasted until about A.
318,
n Co
tin
t II.
d to
pers
twns of the ChristJ.u.ns.
5th and 6th verses, " And when he had opened the
. d se
hear
e thi
beast
, Co
and
dlb
d,a
o,a
kho
and
that
apon him had a palr of balances ill his hand. And I
heard a vOice in the midst of the four beasts say, A
asure
whe
ray, an
ree
ure
ey f
penn
d se
ou'h
ot th
and
wine." The third beast, which represents the church,
under this seal, had a face as a man, and shows that the
rch
d bell.
ral
pro
haug
pen
se
,amh
S, c
us,
worl
This seal was opened in the days of Constantine, when
r gion b I1me
ular, and was a stepping-stone to
er;
this
agre
ith
erg
chu
as to time .and place. T e black
rse
tes e
and darkness; and when the church became connected
.
wo
pow
nd
. om, sh lost h
urity f
trine
pra.c
, and
pted,
er c
max
and prinCiples congenialwrth the natural heart, and
forlUS and ceremonies R>r show and parade, rather thBll
hum
and
l!8-be· g lif
the
wers
us;
bal
de
d th
ligio
d c
power would be united in the person who would ad-
minister the executive power ill' the government, and
he w
dai
e ju
I au
y bo
chu
state
his
true
ng
Rom
mper
from the days of Constantine until the reign of Justin-
I
when he gave the same judicial power to the bishop
orne
he
ures
whe
nd b
y fo
penny deno
tha
e m m ere 0
e ch
wo
be eagerly engaged after worldly goods, and the love of
ey w
be
prev .. ng sp· . of th
·mes, f
wou
iapo
f an
ing
mone
The
and wine denote the graces of the Spmt, faith and love,
and there was great danger of hurting these, under the
ence
BO m
wor
piri
And i'· well
]6

18'J
LECTtlU XII.
tested, by all historians, that the prosperity of the church
in this age produced the corruptions which finally ter·
minated in the falling away, and setting up the anti·
Christian abominations.
7th and 8th verses, "And when he had opened the
fourth seal, I heard the fourth beast say, Come and see.
And 1 looked, and behold, a pale horse, and his }l8.IIIe that
sat on him was Death, and hell followed with him; and
power was given unto them over the fourth part of the
earth, to kill with sword, and with hunger, and with
death, and with beasts of the earth." The fourth seal
opened in the year A. D. 538, when anti-Christ first
arose, for the fourth beast was like a flying eagle. "And
to the woman was given two wings of an eagle, that she
might fly into the wilderness, into her place, where she
is nourished for a time, times, and a half, from the face
of the serpent." The pale horse is named, in this pas.
I!age, death. And hell followed, showing us plainly that
it is the anti-Christian power which would have the
ascendency over one fourth part of the earth, during the
opening of this seal. " Power was given unto them,"
shows conclusively that it is the same'power mentioned
in Rev. xiii. 2--5, " And ~
dragon jave him his power,
and his seat, and great authority.
"And there was
given him a mouth speaking gr'lat things and blasphc.
mies; and power was given unto him to continue forty
and two months." Again, 7th verse," And it was given
unto him to make war with the saints, II.1ld to overcome
them; and power was given him over all kindreds, and
tongues, and nations." In our text he says, "Power was
given them to kill with the sword," that IS, to make 'irJlr,
which was fulfilled in Europe, when the papal power
sent out large annies to exterminate the heretics; as
they were called, who would not worship the beast or
his image. "And with hunger;" this was fulfilled by
the same power imprisoning and starving to death many
thousands of persons who were suspected of opposition
to her ungodly pretensions. "And with death;" in·
venting the most cruel and bloody means of torture that
were ever imposed upon our world; to inflict death, in
every possible shape that men or devils could invent
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECOND COIlING.
thousands and tens of thousands suffered death under
the most excruciating torments that the Inquisition could
devise. "And with the beasts of the earth;" after
they had glutted their thirst for blood in every poesible
shape that man could inflict, thousands were thrown to
ferocious beasts, to be destroyed by them. The time
and place of the opening of tilis seal we cannot be mis-
taken in. It must have been during the bloody and
persecuting reign of the papal church."
9th-11th verses, "And when he had opened the fifth
seal, J saw under the altar the souls of them that were
slain for the word of God, and for the testimony which
they held; and they cried with aloud voice, saying, How
long, 0 Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judo:e and
avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth ~ And
white robes were given unto everyone of tilem; and it
was said unto them that they should rest yet for a little
lIeason, until their fellow-servants also, and their breth-
ren, that should be killed as they. were, should be fulfil-
led." On the opening of the fifth seal, there is no beast
to say, "Come and see," for this very good reason- the
church has not changed her position, and is yet in the
wilderness, like the lIy~ eagle. Therefore, under the
fourth beast, the church 18.likewise under the control of
the same anti-Christian power as under the fourth seal,
but the difference appears to be only in one tiling - the
church appears to enjoy a little respite from her persecu-
ting enemy; and it would seem by the language of the
souls of the martyrs that they are now looking for a day
of vengeance, which God hath promised upon them who
worshipped the beast or his image; and the inquiry is,
How long before this day of vengeance will come? The
~wer is given to these praying souls to rest a little sea-
son, and they are informed there must be one more day or
little season of persecution, when their brethren must be
killed in like manner with themselves; and when thq,t is
accomplished, they would then experience the last prom-
ise of God, the resurrection. This seal was opened
about the beginning of the 18th century, A. D. 1700
when the bloody persecutions against Protestants ceased,
and the natiOJ18 of the world began to enjoy religiolll
freedom.
..
Digitized by Google
•

LECT17U Xli.
1~h-17th verses," And I beheld when he had opeD
ed the sixth seal, and 10, there was a great earthquake.'
On the opening of this seal there is a great earthquake
This earthquake is spoken of in other places in this book
and alludes to the French revolution; and of course thd
seal opened about A. D. 1790. "And the sun becalll'
black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon became IIJ
blood." Sun sometimes denotes rulers or kings, as in
the case of Joseph's dream, when the BUn, moon and
stars made obeisance to him, meaning his father, head
over all Israel. his mother, and his brethren; for where
the king is called the sun, the queen is called 1M moon.
and inferior rulers are called liars, as Christ is called
BUn of rigldeou8fIU8, because he is king of Zion. The
church is called the 'noon. because she is the bride of
Christ. Ministers are called stars because they are in-
ferior rulers in Christ's kingdom. Therefore I under-
stand this to mean in that revolution when the king lost
his authority, and tried to disguise himself, and Bed from
his own subjects, afterwards was beheaded. The queen,
too, became blood, and all the nobility of France fell to
the earth. One decree levelled all titles and distinctions
with the commonalty, like a fig-tree casting her untime-
ly figs.
"And the stars of heaven fell unto the earth,
even as a fig-tree casteth her untimely figs when she is
shaken of a mighty wind. And the heaven departed as
a scroll when it is rolled together." The heavens must
mean that circle in which the planets move j and if that
is to be understood figuratively, so must this.
Heavem
must then mean the laws and government of France.
These were all swept away, or rolled up and laid away
like an old parchment out of date or use. " And every
mountain and island were moved out of their places."
Mountains and islands are figures of large and small
governments, and in the French revolution every gov-
ernment was removed from their legitimate sovereigns,
except England, in the old Roman empire, and given to
kings of Bonaparte's creation. And certainly all the
kingdoms in Europe were changed from what they were
belore j so that when legitimacy was restored, the an-
cient kings could not and have not found their kingdoml
~igitizeJ JI Google

RIB
BE
ND
HI
in the same situation they were in before the
vol f on.
" A
the
ng
f th
arth and
e g
t m , a
the
rich men, and the chief captains, and the mighty men,
and ver
ond
n,
d e ry f
rna
hid
em
'es
n
e dens, and m the rocks of the mountains, and said
to the rocks and mountains Fall on us, and hide us f om
the
e 0
him
at
te
n
thr
, n
fro
tho
wrath of the Lamb."
I . a
I-k
wn
t to Il w
ar
onv rsan
ith
he
tory of
e French revolution, that almost every
king in Europe had to flee from his kin dom durin
the
pa
of
ut
e a
tw
y y
s :
ki
of
or-
tugal to Brazil; the kinO' of Spain to France ; the king of
Fra
fl
0 E 'Ian "'th
ope
ed
xiI
th
ng
f
dima left
IS kingdom and fled to the island of Sar-
dinia; the king of N a les to the island of the same name;
he
go
ust
Ie
BC
tal
dth kin
fP
sia
took shelter under Russia; the emperor of all the Russias
eft
sc
to i
ate and
na rte . sel
ed
he
sla
of
a, an died a pnsoner on bt. Helena. The
great men and chief captains and all orders and de ees
fm ,h
oft
fro
he
do
ei
the
and
ek
an asylum among strangers. So true was this passage of
Scri ure
fill
tha'
an
rite and . vin
act lly
uppo ed
t i
as l.ue las grea
ntt e and supper of
the great God. "For the great day of his wrath is
om
and ho
all b
ble
st
?" Th
ixth eal
IS not yet wholly opened; for it is evident that we are
arr'
d
n t the
t
,th gre
da
of'
th
whi
wi!
Illffiv iate y fol ow t e se mg time which
he @'ives us ill the next chapter.
H
Vll ," da rth eth JIll
w
ra els
standing on the four corners of the earth, holding the
our ind
f th eart' tha . sh
Id
b
the
arth, nor
th
ea, nor on any tree."
Daniel tells us,
vii. 2, "I saw in my vision by night, and behold the four
win
of
he en
ve
on
e
at
."
he
fow winrh, then, means the opposing elements, war and
on
tio
T
e p' cip
Te
ts
wa and
n-
ent
w
re rain or a lttle season, so they
should not fan up the spirit of war and strife, neither in
tAe
ma gov
me
fc
d e
h,)
on
e l. lilt
16-
91tize

LliCTlJU XlL
nations, (called great sea,) nor on indlVlduala or imalI
societies of men, (called trees;) and this has been r&o
markably fulfilled for twenty years past. Not a particle
of opposition hlljJ been experienced against the transla-
tion and spread of the Bible, or the miasionary cause.
Kings have been nursing fathers, and queens nursing
mothers, to help forward the cause of God. The wind
of Papacy has been kept down' by the angel, so that all
the opposition they could raise has been weak and in-
efficient. The Mahometan wind has not blown a blast
for twenty years; the idolatrous and pagan nations of
the East have, by some invisible power, been kept in
check; the infidel and deistical pnnciplea of the West
have been held in complete subjeCtion by the Ame
invisible hand, until the servants of God should be
sealed. Therefore, since the French revolution, none
of these four winds of opposition to Christ have been
permitted to use any physical force, as formerly, to sup-
press the ·.pread of the gospel through the earth. "And
I saw another angel ascending from the east, having the
seal of the living God; and lie cried with a loud voice
to the four angels to whom it was given to hurt the earth
and the sea." The angel here spoken of as ascending
from the east, is the angel standing on the land and on the
sea, with a little book open, and the same that is represent-
ed in another place as flying through the midst of heaven
having the everlasting goSpel to preaeh to them who dwell
on the earth. Coming from the east,the place of light, and
huing the seal of the living God, shows plainly, that it is
the angel of the gospel The four angels are the four mes-
sengers of God, who suppress those four opposition princi-
ples, until the sealing time shall be over, "saying, Hurt not
the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, tin we have
sealed the servants of God in their foreheads." The
four angels are here commanded not to let these four
winds of opposition hurt the earth, sea, or trees, until
the sealing time is past, which is the same time spoken
of, Daniel xii. 1, "Then shall Michael stand u~ the
great Prince which standeth for the children of tb¥
people." "And I heard the number of them which were
1Iealed; and there were sealed a hundred forty and
four tbOUl&lld or all the 'tribe. of the children or ISraeL·
Digitized by Google

CBBIST's IIECOlm COIlING.
John first ~ves oa an account of the num1rer that were
lIealed in hIS day, out of all the tribes of Israel. They
tDere &ealed, as he tells us when he wrote, it being fin·
ished in the clbse of the Jewish dispensation. It being
a complete number, 144,000, and therefore could be num-
bered; and as these were sealed at the close of ~at
dis~nsatiOD, BO John now saw in vision a greatnllmber,
which no man could number, sealed at the close of the
Gentile dispensation, of which he has been prophesy-
ing j for after he has gone through with numberintr
twelve thousand in every tribe, he then says, Rev. viI.
9, "After this I beheld," that is, after this sealing, by
which 144,000 had been sealed among the Jews, he
beheld, "and 10, a weat multitude, which no man could
number, of all nations, and kindreds, and people, and
tongues, stood before the throne and before the Lamb,
clothed with white robes, and palms. in their hands."
This evidently refers to the last sealing time among all
nations j for he again hears them singing the grand
chorus BOng, as at the close of the history of the seven
churches, " And cried with a loud voice, saying, Salva-
tion to our Hod, which sitteth upon the throne, and unto
the Lamb. And all the angels stood round about the
throne, and about the elders and the four beasts, and
fell before the throDe on their faces, and worshipped
God, saying, Amen: blessing, and glory, and wisdom,
and thanksgiving, and honor, and power, and might be
unto our God forever and ever, amen."
This shows us that we are again brought down the
I stream· of time, to hear a part, at least, of the song
which no man can sing, but those whose bodies are
redeemed from the earth.
"And one of the elders
answered, Baying unto me, What are these which are
arrayed in white robes? And whence came they? And
I saJd unto him, Sir; thou knoweat. And he Rid unto
me, These are they which come out of great tribulation,
and have washed their robes, and made them white in
the blood of the Lamb."
This passage shows who
those were that John saw, and how they obtained the
honor and glory, which John saw them possessing,
I
through great tribulation, and the blood of the Lamb
• TheretOre are they before the throne of God, and
Digitized by Google

LECTl1U ur.
- lerve him day and night in his temple: and he that
litteth on the throne shall dwell among them;" the
lame as m Rev. xx. 6, "And they lived and reigned
with him," in the New Jerusalem state; tilr he goe.'1 on
to dedcribe this state of happiness, which John does in
Rev. xxi. 1--5, compared with the two following I
and there can be no doubt on the mind that John is de-
scribing the same in one place as in the other. " They
shall hun"o-er no more, neither thirst any more; neithel
shall the sun light on them, nor any heat. For the
Lamb, which is in the midst of the throne, IIhall feed
them, and shall lead them unto living fountains of
waters; and God shall wipe away all tears from their
eyes." There can be no doubt left on the mind of any
man, that John has, in these passages, given us a view
of the New Jerusalem in the immortal state. We have
been permitted to hear a part of the new song, and have
received, in the passage just read, the blessed promises
contained in that beloved city. And now, we only wait
for the 1&'1t seal to open. "And when he had opened
the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven about the
space of half an hour." Zech!lriah says, ii. 13, "Be
silent, 0 all flesh, before the Lord; for he is raised up
out of his holy habitation! " Habakkuk says, ii. 20, ,. But
the Lord is in his holy temple; let all the earth keep
silence before him!" From these passages I should
infer, that when God arises up to the prey, when his
great white throne is set in the heavens, and when the
Son of Man shall come in the clouds of heaven, with
power and great glory, then will all flesh be silent
before him. And it is reasonable to suppose that the
whole universe of rational beings who may be permitted
to witness thll.t grand scene, will be 80 filled with won-
der and awe at the sight of the glory of God, that they
will be silent. Then, too, will the redeemed souls,
while the great Judge is separating them from the
wicked, while they are rising to meet their Lord in the
air, be Bikm. They will, like the children of Israel,
stand still, (be silent,) and see the salvation of God.
And the wicked world, who have scoffed at the idea
of Christ's second coming, who have said, "Where ia
the promise of his coming?" and' laughed and ridi·
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECOlm COMING.
euled the Bel'VlLDts of Christ, who bave criQd to them, in
their midnight revels, " Behold, the bridegroom cometh,"
will be Bilmt. Then will those sel'VlLDts wlio have" said in
their hearts, Mv Lord delayeth his coming," and "be.
gin to beat and"bruise their fellow-servants," who have
proclaimed his coming, "and to eat and drink with the
drunken," be Iilent.
Then, too, will all the false
prophets, who have cried Peace, peace, when there ,was
DO peace, be silent, when they see the frowns of an
angry judge whom they have disrep,rded.
Then
shall those who have promised the wicked life, though
he should not turn from his wickedness, be Bilmt. Then,
every one found in that great a8Sembly, when the Son
of Man shall come in the clouds, and all the holy angels
with him, and all the saints who have slept, and all na.-
tions then shall be gathered before him, and every eye
shall see him; then, 1 say. will every one found in
this vast multitude, not having on the wedding gar-
ment, be Bilmt; for the Scripture says," He tDIZ8 &peed.-
leaa."
And now, my dear friends, what say you? Have you
wept much to know whether your names are written m
the Lamb's book of life? "W eep not," for" behold, the
Lion of the tribe of Judah hath prev.ai1Eld to open the
book." And he says, "He that overcometh, the same
shall be clothed in white raiment; and I will not blot
his name out of the book of life, but I will confe'.iS his
Dame before my Father, and before his angels.
'l'here.
fore, " rejoice, because fOur names are written in
heaven," says the dear SaVIor.
.
But you, my impenitent friends, who have never wept,
nor confessed your sins to God, who have been more
anxious to have your names written in the book of fame,
of worldly honor, of the riches of this world, than in
the book of life, remember, you too will weep when all
heaven is silent--"when the last seal is broken-then
you will Bee the book, and your name blotted out.
Then you will weep and SIIY, "Once, my name was
there; I had a day of probation; life was proffered; but
I hated instruction, I despised reproof, and my part is
taken from the book of life. Farewell, happineB8
farewell, hope! Amen.
Digitized by Google

LECTURE XIII.
RBV. d.3.
ADd I will give ~wer unto my two witnesses, and they shall proph-
esy a thousand two bundred and threescore days, clo,t.Iied ill
sackcloth.
THE two witnesses in our text have caused as much
&peCula\ion among the writers on the New Testament, as
any other passage in the word of God. Some have sup-
posed that it was a succession of orthodox divines, whom
God had raised up to witness to the truth, during the
time specified, which all agree is twelve hundred and
sixty years. And those writers who have taken this side
of the question, have endeavored to find sOlDe favorite
divines, among their sect, answering to the description
given of the two witnesses. Upon this construction every
seet might claim the honor of giving to the world the two
witnesses. And were this explanation true, instead of
two witneBBes, we should have more than eight hundred;
for every sect must have a set, and I dare not give pref-
erence to any. This would destroy the idea oftwo tDit-
_at once.
Other writers have fixed on the church as the two,
clergy and laity; but here are many difficulties to en-
counter, the same as above. Every sect must have their
own church and clergy, or admit at once that they are
not the true church. But let us now come to the word
of God. And if the word of God does not explain the
"two witnesses," I shall despair of ever coming to the
truth on this subject, for I am commanded by Christ him·
aelf to call DO man master. I shall, then,
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECOND COMING.
I. Attempt to show what the Bible calls the two wit-
nesses.
II. What we may understand by their being clothed
in sackcloth.
III. Their hIstory, prophecy, and time specified.
t. \Vhat is the Bible account ef the two witnesses?
And, first, What is a witness? I answer, A witness is a
person, or legal instrument, testifying to the truth, the
w hole truth, and nothiRg but the truth, on matters of fact,
which are supposed to be known no way but through tes-
timony, either oral or written. Oral testimony is given'
by a person who is sworn to tell the w~ole truth, as above,
and relate what he actllally knows, by the-medium of his
own senses, and no more nor less. The apostles were
such witnesses; for they testified to the things which
Christ did in public. And when Judas fell by transgres-
sion, Peter informed his brethren that one must be cho-
sen, "of these men which have companied' with us all the
time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, be-
ginning at the baptism of John, unto the same day that
he was taken up from us, must one be ordained to be a
toitmu with us of his resurrection." But these could not
be the "two witnesses;" for here were twelve. But we
learn by this history what a witness must be. He must
go in and Ollt; he must know by' actual observation, or
he could not testify any thing concerning Christ. That
was the manner of oral testimony in that day, and so it is
at the present. This, then, precludes the idea at once
of any men, or set of men, being Christ's witnesses at the
present day, orllince the days of the apostles. But, says
the objector, does not, the word of God call all Christians
witnesses for Christ? I do not know of any scripture
where Christians aloe called witnuaes, except theproph-
eta and apostles, or inspired writers, that is, concerning
Christ. They may witness a good profession, or they
may witness for themselves, that they believe in Christ
or his word; but further they cannot go. They are not
witness either to the person of Christ, to his works, death,
miracles, or resurrection and ascension; and if there was
110 other testimony but oral, we should be no better oft"
than the darkest Hindoo or most ignorant Hottentot.
Digitized by Google

LECTl1U XJD.
:Bot, thuu be to God, he bas not left us without a wit·
Ilea. There is a better testimony than all Christendom,
which is written; and it is this which I hold in my hand;
it is the word of God. It tells the truth; "for not one jot
or tittle of this word shall fiill." It teUs the whole truth,
If that the man of Gad may be perfectly furnished to
every good work." It tells nothing but the truth; for it
is the truth indited by him who cannot lie.
You are well aware, my friends,. that written testimony
is considered in all courts, under all laws, to be stronger
than any oral testimony whatever. For instance, take the
last will and testament of any man; if it was written or
indited by himself, signed by his own hand, sealed with
his own seal, in presence of witnesses chosen by himself,
and ratified by his death, no oral testimony can be brought
against it; unless the instrument itself shows BOme con-
tradiction or discrepancy, it cannot be destroyed. So it
ill with these two testaments, revealed, indited, confirmed,
witneued, and ratified, by the death of the testator, the
Lord Jesus Christ. And although wicked men and dev-
ils have endeavored to show some contradiction or dis-
crepancy in its testimony, it has stood the shock of
ages, the wreck of kingdoms, and will stand when Ulese
heavens and this earth shall pass away with a great noise
and the elements melt with fervent heat; for by this
word we must all be judged; by these witnesses we shan
be justified or condemned. Christ says, "Search the
Scnptures; for in tham'l..e think ye have eternal life; and
they are they which testify of me." The angel tells John,
in the next verse following our text, that the two wit-
DeBBes "are the two olive trees, and the two candlesticks
ltanding before the God of the earth." The angel, in his
allusion to the two olive trees, quotes the prophet Zech-
ariah, iv. 3, " And two olive trees by it, one upon the right
side of the bowl, and the other upon the left side thereo£~
Here the olive trees are used in a figurative sense, ana
properly denote the "sons of oil," or the two cherubims
which stood over the ark, and spread their wings over the
mercy seat. The wings of the cherubims stretched from
either side of the house to the centre over the mercy seat,
J,Ild their faces turned inwards doWD upon the Blercy seat,
Digitized by Google

CBlUST'1 IBCOtm COllOl\'&.
and the glory of the God of IlI1'IIel W8II above the chern-
bims. These cherubims are a lively type of the Old and
.N ew Testament.
The significlLtiorr of cheru6 is "ful-
ness oj knowledge;" 10 is the word of God, "that the
man of God may be thoroughly fumished, perfect in every
good work." They have the whole truth, all we can
lmow about Jesus Christ in this state. They stand OB
either hand of Christ, one before he came in the Besh,
pointing to a Messiah to come, by all its types and shad-
ows; and like the cherub whOlle wings touched the outer
wall of the room and reac~ed to the centre over the mercy
leat, so did the Old Testament reach from the creation
efthe world down to John's preaching in the wildemesa,
and like the cherub looking down on the mercy seat, it
testified of the Messiah. The other cherubim's winge
reached from the centre over the mercy seat, and touched
the other wall of the room, while his face was turned
back upon the mercy seat. So does the New Testament
begin at the preaching of John, and reveals all that i.
necessary for us to know, down to the end of the world.
And all the ordinances of the New 'festarnent house look
back to the sufferings, death, and resurrection of Jesue
Christ, and are to continue until his second coming and
end of the world. These cherubims were made of olive
trees, and overlaid with pure gold, 1 Kings vi. ~28.
Again: the angel tells Zechariah what the two olive
trees are, Zech. iv. 4-6, "So I answered anlt spake to
the angel that talked with me, saying, What are these,
my lord?" (the two olive trees.) "Then the angel that
talked witb me answered and said unto me, Knowest
thou not what these be? And I said; No, my lord.
Then he anBwered and spake unto me, saying, This is
the word of the Lord unto Zerubabel," &c. Here we
are plainly told that the two olive trees are the word of
the Lord, and the angel tells John,. Rev.·xi. 4, that "the
two witnesses are the two olive trees and the two candle-
sticks." As candlesticks are the means of light, so is
the word of God.
Ctmdluticb 'are used in Scripture in
the same sense as lo.mpl. And Da.vid says," Thy word is
a laror, to my feet and a light to my path." Therefore 1
homb y believe that I have fairly and conclusively proved
Digitized by Google

\
19(
LECTUllJl: xm.
that the two witnesses are the Old and New TestameDt.
An
I
nes
e may understan
in sackcloth.
a state of dsrkne
~2,
e black -as sackc
IS,
ark, invisible, an
lig
ng the dark ages
e
word of God was darkened by monkish SUperstItiOn, bIg-
otry, and ignorance in its sacred principles.
It did not
give its true light, because the laws, doctrines, and ordi-
nances were changed by the laws of the Latin chureh;
its doctrine was perverted by the introduction of the doc-
trine of devils and the anti-Christian abominations: its
ordinances were so altered as to suit the convenience of
carnal men' and it was obscured, because the common
pe
n to read it, or e
the
Papal authority.
the
measure; for th
e
ch
ade its translation
e
ex
d Latin, which la
be
man government i
e
six
kcloth denotes gr
d
troubles, as m the days of Heiekiah, 2 Kmgs, XIX. 1, 2,
"When king Hezekiah' heard (the threatenings of the
king of Assyria,) he rent his clothes, and covered him-
self with sackcloth j" also, the N inevites put on sackcloth.
at the preaching of Jonah, when their city was threat-
ened with a final overthrow. So with the two witnesses j
while they were clothed in sackcloth, it was a time of
great calamity and trouble to the people of God' erse-
CII
t any mitigation i
of
nment, and the ch
h
wa
ed by the "two
he
wilderness, was
a
fin
the Papal armies,
d
ev
hat could be devis
n
or
has preserved his
the rrsecutions of the Roman power. I shall now,
II. Show their history, prophtlcy, and time specified
in the text.

CHRIST'. II:COzm COJONe.
1st. Their history, con\ILined in Rev. xi. 5-13, inclu-
Bive. Let me read and explain. 5th verse, "If any man
will hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their mouth, and
devoureth their enemies, and if any man will·hurt them,
he must in this manner be killed." If any man shall add
or take away from the book or revelation of God, "God
shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out
of the holy city;" and "God shall add unto him the
plagues that are written in this book." This verse has
been verified in our day in the history of deistical France.
The rulers of France, in the revolution, proclaimed a
war of extermination against the fishermen's Bible, as
they were pleased to term it; and within six years they
exterminated themselves, the republic, and almost their
principles. The kingdom was delu~d in blood; anarch!
was the Jaw of the land; and the Judgments de.ounced
by this word were literally accomplis ned, so that deists
thelIl881ves stood appallcd at 'the horror and confusion
their own principles had brought upon their heaven-
daring crimes.
6th verse, "These have power to shut heaven, that it
rain not in the days of their prophecy." Allusion is here
had to" the three years-and a half," in the days of Eltiah.
when the heavens were shut up, Luke iv. 25, which is
the same time the witnesses prophesy clothed in sack-
cloth, 1260 days, forty-two months, thirty days to a
month; that being common time, and this prophetic.
The Scriptures are the means which God has made use
of to convert sinners from error to truth, from sin to
righteousness, and to convey the knowledge of grace,
(which in this verse is compared to rain,) to a lost and
perishing world. During the reign of anti-Christ, 1260
years, the church in the wilderness, and the two wit-
nesses clothed in sackcloth the same 1260 years, the
doctrine of grace in Jesns Christ was but partially
taught. Mucn of the professedly Christian world have
been taught tbat doing penance, purchasing indul-
gences, obeying the holy Catholic church, or performing
BOrne outward act for pardon, would answer them heaven
and happiness. But when the Scriptures began tn be
read and underlltood, and where the doctrine of grace ill
Digitized by Google

LIiCT11JUl XlD.
Jesus Chriet has been published by the translation and
circulation of the .word of God, how diiferent the scene I
Now, we can hardly find a Roman Catholic who will pre
tend that heaven is purchased by infliction of bodily tor-
ture, by doing penance, or by a monastic seclusion from
the world; neither do we see them selling indulgences,
and promising the holders pardon for the most abomina-
ble crimes. And but rarely do we hear the infallibility
of the mother, or holy Catholic church, advanced from
pulpit or prelll!.Why this mighty ch~
in public sen-
timent? Because the reign of grace IS not withheld;
the two witn_ are no longer clothed in sackcloth;
"Michael' has stood up, that lltandeth for the children of
th1. people."
And the "angel is flying through th.
mulst of heaven, having the everlasting goe)KlI to preach
to them that dwell on the earth." "ADd have powet
over the waters to tum them to blood."
By VIfJUr', we
underatand people; and by w-L, wars.
Thia text hi"
been amply fulfilled in the WarB of Europe, fighting fol'
religious tenets and ecclesiastical power, claiming their
prerogatives from the two witnesses, and wresting and
perverting the word of God to their own destruction.
"And frOm thence come wars,· tumults, fi~tinga," be-
caUle they understand not. "And to SDIlte the earth
with all pI~es, as often as they will" In Old Testa-·
ment times, It Was the word of God, through Moses and
Aaron, that smote Egypt wi\h the ten plagues, and
through Joshua the Canaanites. So, in New Testament
times, the seveil last plagues, and the three woes, are
denounced against the anti-Christian beast, who dwells
on and has great power over the earth. " As often as
they will," meaning as/0ften u they have prophesied of
them, so often will the plagues be sent. Not one jot or
tittle of tho word of God will fail
7th vel'llt', "And when they shall have finished their
testimony," that is, when the 1260 years are about ful-
filled, the "beast that' ascendeth out of the bottomless
pit; " this beast is the same as the little horn, Papal
Rome, and is said to ascend out of the bottomless pit,
because it is thunded on error. The principles taught
lIy this beast were fust Paganism, and eDded ~ Deismt
Digitized by Google

CJUUSTB BECOl'Q) COlima.
which are not built on the word of God; li.nd, therefore,
have no foundation, anrl may truly be said to be "bottom·
le88."
" Shall make war against them." The govern-
ments, under the authority of Papal Rome, shall en
deavor to exterminate the" two witnesses," the word of
God. " And shall overcome them, and kill them;" have
power over them, pass laws or edicts against them, and,
by this means, destroy their usefulness, life, and activity.
For where the Scriptures are not read, and believed in,
they become a dead letter; but when read, and believed,
" they are spirit, they are life," John vi. 63-
8th verse, "And their dead bodies shall lie in the
streets of the great city, which spiritually is called
Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord was crncified."
This verse teaches UB, that the word of God would be
made a dead letter, by the authority of one of the prin-
cipal kingdoms out of one of the ten into which the Ro-
man government was diVided, and that they would be
guilty of the same sins that Sodom and Elrypt were
gnilty of; and, also, of crucifying our Lord, that is, in a
spiritual sense. This will apply to France in particular.
France, previous to, and in the French revolution, was
guilty of Sodomitish sins j she also had held in bondal\"e,
like Egypt, the people of God j and, in France, Chnst
had been crucified afresh in his people, o~ St. Bartholo-
mew's eve, A. D. 1572, when 50,000 Huguenots were
murdered in one night. The people of God are called
Christ's spiritual body, 1 Peter ii. 5, Col. i 24.
9th verse, "And they of'the people, and kindreds, and
tongues, shall see their dead bodies three days and a
half, and shall not suffer their dead bodies to be put
in graves." ,This decree, or edict, should be generally
known among all nations j and although they could not
prevent the witnesses from lying "in the streets of the
great city three years and a half, yet the nations about
tbem would prevent the Scriptures from being buried,
or put out of sigh,-
10th verse, " And they that dwell upon the earth shall
rejoice over them, and make merry, and shall send gifts
one to another, because these two prophets tormented
them that dwelt upon the earth." We learn by this text
17-
,
Digitized by Google

LECTU&I: XlII.
that the nation, who would SUppreel the reading of the
word of God, would make great rejoicings upon this 0c-
casion, and congratulate each other upon the destruction
of the Bible, as they would suppose, for thil! reason, be-
cause the doctrine and precepts of the Bible would be
hateful and disagreeable to them.
. 11th verse, "And after three days and a half, [years,]
the spirit of life from God entered into them, and they
stood upon their feet j and great fear fell' upon Jhem
which saw them." After the Bible would be dormant
three years and a half, God would so order in his provi'-
dence, that they would again be permitted to be read
and enjoyed as usual, and the Bible would again stand
upon its own foundation, or merits, and would again
have their bearing on the hopes and fears of mankind,
and the governments of the world, and their enemies
would see it and tremble.
12th verse, "And they heard a great voice from
heaven, saying unto them, Come up hither; and they as-
cended up to heaven in a cloud, and their enemieS be-
held them." This verse shows us that many voices
would unite in calling for a general spread of the Bible
through the world, and that the Bible would be exalted
among the nations, and great multitudes of them cireu-
lated, and the enemies of the word of Gild could not
prevent it. Here we have a plain and distinct prophecy
of the Bible societies.
13th verse, "And the same hour was there a great
earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell, and in the
earthquake were slain of men [names or titles] seven
thousand, and the remnant were aftiighted, and gave glo-
ry to the God of'heaven." At the same hour the wit-
nesses would be. slain, there would be a great revoltl-
tion, and one of the ten kinlrdoms, which had given their
power and support to the l>apal beast, would fall j and
seven thousand names, or titles of nobility, in .chnreh
and state, would be destroyed j and this revolution
would produce great fear amonll' the nations, and some
would acknowledge that the wo;a: was fulfilling, and God
was produC'ing these wonderful events. Here we again
loe. eXactly depicted the FreJlch revolution, and its at:;

CHRl8T'S 8BCOllD COMING.
_
.
fi!cts; and we cannot but see that the whole of au.
prophecy hu been literally ftdfilJed.
In the beginning of the sixth century, about A. D. 538,
Justinian, emperor of Coll8tantinople, in his controversy
with the Ariana, and other schismatics in the Greek
church, constituted the bishop of Rome head over all
othem, both in the western and eutem churches, who,
by his authority, suppressed the reading of the Bible by
laymen, pretending that they could not read and under-
stand without the l1811istance of the clergy.
About th18
time, too, the Latin language ceased to be spoken ill
Italy, and the Greek and Latin both became dead lan-
guages. The Bible at that time not being written or
translated into any other languages in Europe, it became
an eU1 task for the biahop to obscure the doctrine and
disciplIne of the word of God, 80 far u mited his con-
venience, and to obtain universal power over the minds
and conaciences of men, ad clothe the Scriptures in
sackcloth. If, then, the Scriptures were first clothed in
sackcloth in A. D. 538, and were to prophesy 1260 years
in this situation, their prophecy would end in 1798.
About the close of the eighteenth century, in conse-
quence of the abominable corruptions of the church of
Rome being eXpOIIed to public view, the men of the
world began to treat revelation as a fiction, and reli{ioD
88 priestcraft; and instead of I!earching for the pillar
and ground of the truth, "their imaginatiOl18 became
vain, and their foolish minds were dpkened."
They
declared war against the Bible, the "two witneBl!es,·
which war became general allover Europe and AmericL
Some of the most eminent and principal writerB in this
controveray were in France, the principal kingdom
among the ten, into which Rome had been divided at
the close of the fifth century; and 80 succeaful were
these writei'll, that almost the whole nation of the French
became Deists, or Atheists, in a short time. This na·
tion had long been IlUilty of the abominatioDII of the
anti-Christian beast, the siDII of Sedom and Egypt, and
the persecution of those who protested against her na-
tional corruptions: the slaying of the witneBBes; their
IJio&' in a dead state three yeus and a half in the street
Digitized by Google

LECTURE XIII.
of the great city; the revolution spoken of in this proph-
ecy -
all happened in the French revolution, between
the years 17U3 and 1798. A decree was passed by the
'Council and directory of France, prohibitinjl" the Bible
to be read in public, in any of the chapels 1D France.
and Bibles were gathered in heaps, and bonfires were
made of them, and great rejoicings were had allover
the kingdom at the downfall of priestcraft, as they called
it; and particularly at Lyons, where the Scriptures were
publicly dragged through the streets, with circumstances
of the greatest contempt, "and other things transacted in
the exultation of their triumph, which are too shocking
to narrate. Let it suffice, then, to say, that after three
years and a half th6 Bible was again permitted to be
read, and rlfligion had free tolerntion in France; and
what is equally as remarkable, is, that the same year a
few individuals in London established what has since
been styled the Bible society, which has been instru-
mental in sending Bibles "among all nations, and of trans-
lating them into more than 150 languages since that pe-
riod; and almost all the writers, who acknowledge the
Bible to be the two witnesses, do agree that the events,
prophesied of in this passage, were literally accom-
plished in the French revolution.
Now, the Bible is
more than restored to its former state in society; it is
exalted, and every person can have, and read, and ex-
amine for themselves into its sacred truths. It is also a
fact, that the progress of the Bible society has exceeded
the most sanguine expectations of its advocates; and the
Atheists and Deists of our day appear to be perfectly
confounded at these events. Instead now of declaring
open war against the Bible, t11ey make pretelJo!e at least
of drawing their rules of morality from this bleBBed
book; and the man who should now undertake to write
down the word of God, would be considered either a
madman. or a fool.
One thing more: In the French
Revolution, the names or titles of men were abolished;
and it is said by some writers, that, in the 10Jlg list of
titled nobility, and the great catalogue of priestly orders,
there were seven thousand destroyed at once. Well
might the remnant be aJfHghted, and give gIN)' to the
God of heaven!
Digitized by Google

CRUSTa SJ:COl'm COllrlll.'fG.
Let us now for a moment see what roUon the llistorJ
of the two witnesses.
,
14th verse, "The second woe is past, and behold, the
third woe cometh quickly." The second woe began by
the civil wars in France and Germany, and ended in the
French revolution i and the third woe will come quickly.
It is the last great woe denounced againat the woman
sitting upon the scarlet-colored beast, aDd against the
earth, which she hath filled with her lOlCeries, and the
kingdoms of this world, which must all be destroyed un·
der this woe.
15th verse, "And the aeveoth angel sounded, and
thete wele great voices in heaven aaylngt The kingdoJJII
of this world are become tile ~ingdoms of 0111' Lord and
bis Chrilt, and he lIhaU mgn torever and ever."
The
third woe and leVooth trumpet are both the IIIUD8 thing;
(eee Rev. viii. 13 il and the leventh trUmpet ia the lut
trump, when the dead 1Ihal1 be raised. See 1 Cor. xv.
62. It is evideot, also, that we are carried into the
eternal state forever and ever.
16th verse, .. And the four ud twenty elders, which
at before God on their seata, fen on their faces and
worshipped God."
Br the four and twenty elders, I
understand the true mlDisters of Chn., alluding to the
twenty.four COtmles of the priesthood appointed by
David, 1 ChroD. nil'.
17th verse, .. Saying, We give thee thanks, 0 Lord
God Almighty, which art, Bod waBt, and art to come, be-
cauae thou h88t taken to thee thy great power, and hast
reigned." This is the 'Ianguage of every humble and
devoted minister of JOBUs Christ, who makes the word of
God his study, and believes in the overrulhlg hand of
God as accomplishing the great designs therein revealed.
18th verse, .. And the nations were angry, and thy
wrath is come, and the time of the dead, that they should
be judged, and that thou ah6uldest give reward unto thy
servants the prophets, and to the aainlB, and them that
fear thy tame, small and great, and shouldeat destroy
them which destroy the earth."
•
This verse shows us what takes place at the aoundinC
tI the seventh trumpet and third WOI, which tile angei
Digitized by Google

LECTURE XlU.
laYS will come quickly after the French revolution, in
am right in my explanation of the two witnell8es. It ill
morally certain that the word of God is not now in an
obscure state; it is not hid from the world, neither is
clothed in sackcloth. It is true that many voices have
united in the Bible societies to spread the knowledge of
the word of God; and that it is translated into about all
the known languages in the world. It is almost abso-
lutely certain that the French ~eople are the nation that
is comparE'd to Sodom and .r.<gypt, in the paASIlge we
have been examining; and likewise the earthquake spo-
ken of is the French revolution. Then if the two wit-
nesses are the Old and New Testament, we are certain
the third woe is coming quickly, and the seventh trump
must shortly begin to sound, as I have already proved in
my lecture on the trumpets, in the year 1~9. You
have undoubtedly seen, my friends, that we are likeWise
brought down to the judgment, when God will reward the
righteous, and destroy the wicked, who have persecuted
the saints and trampled them under foot.
And once more let me inquire how it stands with yon,
my dear hearer. Are you prepared for that great and
solemn day? Are 1.0u ready to meet the judgtTlent·jI
The two witnesses will appear for or against you. Their
testimony will not fail. Do you believe them? He that
believeth shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall
be damned. "The word that I have spoken," says
Christ, "the same shall judge you in the lallt day." Why
will you not be warned? If half the evidence that I
have brought of our being on the end of this dispensa.-
tion, was brought to prove there was a great treasure hid
in your field, how soon would you search and how dili-
gently would 10U seek until you found it!
In thill book, of which we have now been speaking,
are durable riches, gold tried in the fire, seven times
purified. "Search for it as for hidden treasuret!; seek
and you shall find." Can you tell me where the word
of God, the Bible, has failed of bein~!lccomplillhed lit-
erally, and in the tiDle specified? .Many events have
been foretold, the times given, and not one failed. How
can you disbelieve? How: can you shut your ey.
Digitized by Google

,
CIlJUST'S SECOlm COiliNG.
,
against so much light? Where will you have an ex-
cuse in the day of judgment? I have repeatedly brought
rou down to this time, and shown, by Scripture proof, the
Judgment must commence immediately. You are in
your hearts convicted that what has been declared con-
cerning the two witnesses, in this discourse, is' true.
And ifso, your reason must teach you that what follows
under the third woe must be equally as true. "And the
nations were angry, and thy wrath is come, and the
time of the dead, that they should be judged, and that
thou shouldest give reward unto thy servants the proph-
ets, and to the saints, and them that fear thy name, small
and great; and shouldest destroy them which deltroy
the earth."
Digitized by Google

•
LECTURE XIV.
REV. 1ii. 6.
Aod the woman fled ioto the wilderness, where she hath a place
prepared of God. that they should fee<! her there a thousaud two
hundred &lid threescore days.
THE history of the church, in all ages of this present
world, is but a history of persecution and blood, when we
follow her through all dispensations from Adam to Moses,
and from Moses to Christ; so likewise from Cluiilt's first
coming down to his second appearance, the church have
experienced, and according to \he whole tenor of Scrip-
ture, must expect to realize from tlie kingdoms and men
of this world, this one promise at least, "In the world
ye shall have tribulation." These facts are so plain and
obvious, that it has given rise to a common saying
among almost all writers, that "the blood of martrrs is
the seed of the church." Yet there is a bright Side to.
her history; for she has come out of all her persecutions
more purified, more faithful, and with more energy, to
prosecute the work her divine Master has left her to
perform. And one other thing is certain - God has pre-
served her, whether in the wilderness or among the
nations of the-earth, in an extraordinary and miraculous
manner; even her enemies themselves being her judges.
Where has a kinl{dom stood when all the nations about
them have conspired their overthrow? Where is the
Assyrian and populous Nineveh? Where is Chaldea,
the queen of nations? Where is the Grecian empire,
once the colossus of the world? Where is imperial
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S BECOn COlllIl.'f6. -
Rome? Gone, gone, by the power. of earthly foes.
But behold the church of Christ and of God, delivered
first from Egyptian bondalfe by the mighty ann of
, the God of Jacob, led by mIracles through the wilder-
ness forty rears, brought into the promised land, although
all the natlODs of the earth were her enemies, prese"ed
as a nation through the rise and fall of mighty empires,
and experiencing a reverse of fortune only when she
courted the aid of worldly kingdoms, or suffering dimi-
nution only when she adopted the more popular worship
of heathen idolatry. Yet in her lowest estate, God told
his servant the prqphet, that "he had reserved seven
thousand that had not bowed the knee to Baal."
And
if men would reason on the subject of religion as they
do on other subjects, there could not be an infidel in the
world. For nothing is or can be more manifest than
the miraculous interposition of Providence in the preser-
vation of his people through the most severe trials, heav-
iest atHictions, and deadliest hatred of all men, that men
or societies ever endured.
Our-prescnt discourse will show us the history of the
church by prophecy, through the darkest age the church
has ever been pennitted to experience since the days of
Abraham.
I. I shall show what we may understand by "the
woman" in our text.
II. I shall show what we are to understand by the
grt!at red dragon and beast.
. .
III. I shall give the history of the woman given in th;'
chapters of our text.
IV. The time specified in the text, 1260 days, their
befinning and end.
-
• What may we understand by woman in our text?
I aoswer, We must understand the people of God, irl
aU ages of the church, whether among the Jew or Gen-
tile: she is called a woman because she is the spouse of
Christ; she is likewise called a woman because of her
dependence on Christ for all things. As a man is the
head of the woman, so'is Christ the head over all things
to the church, says the apostle. As the woman depencla
on ber husband for a name, for food, and for raiment, 80
•
Digitized by Google

LECTURE LY
likewise the church on Christ, for a name -" And thou
shalt be called by a new name, which the mouth of the
Lord shall name," Isa. lxii. 2-5. "And they were
called Christians first at, Antioch." For food, our text
says, "that they should feed her there," &c. The
prophet Isaiah says, xl. 11, .. He shall feed his flock as a
shepherd." John vi. 53," F..xllept ye eat the flesh of
the Son of Man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in
you." lor raimmt, the psalmist, speaking of the church,
says, " She shall be brought to the king in raiment of
needlework; her clothing is wrought gold." The ang!!l
to the seven churches says," He that overcometh, the
same shall be clothed in white raiment." And again,
"I, John, saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming
down from God, out of heaven, prepared as a bride
adorned for her husband." This shows conclusively
that the people of God are compared to a woman. And
now let me show,
II. What we may understand by the great red dragon
and beast that persecuted the church, or wpman that fled
into the wilderness.
'fhe red dragon is the same pOlVer as Daniel's fourth
kingdom, the Roman, for the description is the same,
having ten horns; his character, too, IS the same. Dan-
iel says he should break in pieces the whole earth, and
stamp the residue with his feet j that he should work
deceitfully, &0. John says thilt the dragon drew a
third part of the stars of heaven, and did cast them
to the earth, and that he deceiveth the whole world.
The Romnn government, then, must be the apocalyptical
red dragon beast, having seven heacj.s and ten horns.
The Roman power is called red, either because of their
persecuting and bloody spirit, or on account of their
emperors wearing purple robes, when dressed in state;
either might be sufficient to entitle them to the appella-
tion "red." " Dragon" is undoubtedly given the Ro-
mnn government from the fact that the Romans changed
their forms of government so often, having seven dif-
ferent forms in about five hundred years, and from their
deceitful, cunning, intriguing manner by which they ob-
lained power over the nations around thelp, that they
' .. '
Digitized by Google

CHRlST'1 IBCOllD COIDlI&.
were properly a nondescript; and could not be described
by Daniel or John by any thing leen on earth; and
therefore they took one of the inhabitants of the bot-
tomlellS pit," the d~n," to describe to us by figure
thill dreadful, persecuung, and bloody power. -The red
dl'llgon is, therefore, used as a figure to denote Pagan
Rome, and the woman sitting on the Icarlet-colored beallt
to denote the church of Rome, or Papal Rome; and both
together, civil and Papal, make the anti-Chrilltian abolD-
ination, which would drive the church of ChriBt into the
wilderness, where she would be fed 1260 days, or time,
times, and half a time. I shall,
III. Give the hilltory of the woman, as in the twelfth
chapter of Revelation.
'
Verse 1, "And there appeared a great wonder in
heaven," -John aaw this wonderful sight as transpiring
under the gospel day, or government of God, with hhI
people in the gospel, the circle in which the church
moves, here called 1aeaDm, - "a woman clothed with
the sun," the church adorned with gospel liIlht; as
the natural sun gives light to the world, 110 does the
gospel the church, -" and the moon under het feet."
This showl us that John had a view of the churcti while
it was in its Jewish state. For the moon represents the
ceremonial law, which was typical of the gosJ>E:I, like
the moon shining in a borrowed light, and liable to
cha~ when the Shiloh should come. " Under her
feet,' shows tbat slie walked or IItood on the ordinances
~f God's hou8e, which, like the moon, pointed to the
Bun both before and after Christ. "And upon her head
a crown of twelve stars," -
first the twelve patriarchs,
afterwards the twelve apostles, Epb. ii. 20. Like stars
they are smaller li~hts in the government of God, and
teachers under the Jaw and gospel.
Verse 2, "And she, being with child," -
having the
promise that' the Beed of the woman should bruise the
serpent's bead, -" cried travailing in birth," -
denoting
prayer in faith,-" and pained to be delivered,"-that ill,
an anxious and deep longing for the advent of the prom-
ised MellSiali, when she expected deliverance from bon-
dage, liD, and all her foea, Matt. xiii. 17.
Digitized by Google

LBC2'UU UY.
Vel'l8 3,." And there appeared another wonder ill
heaven," -
another sigbt or view of God's government 01
the world in connection with the gospel, -" and behold, a
great red dragon" -
a figurative represents.tion of the
Roman kingdom.
'
Verse 4, "And his tail drew a third part of the stara
of heaven, and did cast them to tbe earth." Judea be-
came a Roman province before the Messiah's advent,
which is figured by the tail, and the Jews had for a num-
ber of years been governed by tetrarcbs or kings of the
Romans' appointment. The Jews were governed by
three different offices, figuratively called liar, -
kings,
high priest, and 8anhedrlm, or the seventy elders. When,
therefore, the Jews were deprived of their right to ap-
point their own kings, one third part of their rulers fell
to the Roman power, in this passage called "earth."-
" And the dralron stood before the woman which was
ready to be delivered,"-llerod was then king of the
Jews, at the birth of Christ, a lJ!presentative of the
Romans, because he was supported by their authority,-
"for to devour her child as soon as it was born."
Herod soull'ht the young child's life, to destroy him.
Bee Matt. 11. 13-
Verse 5, " And she brought forth a man child," -
J esus
Christ, bom of a virgin. "For unto us a child is born,
unto us a son is given," &c. Is&. ix. 6, 7, "Who was
to rule all nations with a rod of iron," denoting the
power of Christ to break in pieces and subdue all the
kingdolD8 of the earth. Psalms ii. 9. Rev. xix. 15,-
"and her child was caught up to God and his throne."
Christ has ascended up on high, and is seated at the
rigbt hand of the Father until he makes his enemies his
footstool." See John vi. 62. Eph. iv. 8-10.
Verse 6, "And the woman fled into the wildemeBB,
where she hath a place prepared of God." The church
had grown weary of the protection of the Roman power,
for she found, by woful experience, that whenever she
placed herself under the protection of this red dragon,
he destroyed some of her blessed privileges, and brought
in a flood of errors, which caused divisions and subdivis-
ions in the church. The Jews had tried their friendship
Digitized by Google

CHBIST'S SECOlW COJONG.
and protection for more than two hundred years before
and after Christ, and the event proved the destruction of
their nation and place. The Christians, too, 'had tried
the friendship of the same power, under Constantine and
succeeding emperors, for little more than two ·hundred
years, beginning A. D. 313, and ending in A. D. 538, as
we shall show; which so corrupted the Romish church
that she became the anti-Christian abomination, and the
true children of God were driven into the wilderness out
from her connection with the anti-Christian church, "the
city of the nations," as she is called. But God took care
"that they should feed her there a thousand two hundred
and threescore days," which is 1260 years, frOID A. D.
538 until 1798, during which time a free toleration of re-
ligious rights were not permitted in any of the kingdoms
which formerly composed the Roman empire; but God
raised up teachers among them, who retained in a good
degree the doctrine and purity of the word of God, and
practised the ordinances as they were delivered to the
saints in the apostles' days: let but little is known of
them for six or seven hundre years.
Verse 7," And there was war in heaven." After the
prophet John had given DB a history of the church, as in
the preceding verses, he now goes back to bring up the
history of the dragon, the Roman kingdom, and begins
his history in the days of Christ and his apostles. " Mi-
chael and his angels fought" -
Christ and his apostles.
See Matt. x. 34, "Think not I am come to send peace
on earth: I came not to send peace, but a sword" -
" agai,.,t the dragon," against principalities and powers,
and wickedness in high places. -" And the dragon
fousrht, and his angels," imperial Rome and worldly men.
Verse 8, "And prevailed not, neither was their place
found· any more in heaven." Rome could not prevail
against the kingdom of Christ or the gospel; for it differed
materially from the Jewish mode of worship; and al-
though Rome in her Pagan state could find easy acce.
into the Jewish sanctuary, because of the similarity of
their worship, yet when Christ set up his gos~l k!ngdotn
they were excluded, for none could' enter till. kingdom
without regeneration, faith, and repentance.
IS·
Digitized by Google

:uo
\ UCTUBI1: XIV.
Verse 9, " And the great dragon was east out,"--" Rome
Pagan was deprived from havi~ any authority in the
go,pel kingdom, as Christ says In John xii. 31," Now
shall the prince of this world be cast out" -
"that old
serpent," -
Rome Pagan is compared to the old ~
because he works deceitfully and deceives the church,
(IDOman,) as the serpent did Eve, the woman in the gar-
den, -
"called the devil," because they devour and per-
secute with a devilish spirit, -" and SataD," because
satan-like he claims power over all kingdoms of the
world -" which decelveth the whole world." -
This
may be said of Rome, for she conquered more nations
by deceit and flattery than by fair warfare. -
"He was
cast out into the earth, and his angels were cut out
with bim." This was literally fulfilled when Christ cut
oft' the Jews and all unbelievers; 'when he said," My
kingdom is not of this world;" when he excluded the
kingdoms of this earth from participating in the spiritual
kingdom which they claimed on account of their author-
ity among meo.
Verse 10, " And I heard a loud voice saying in heav-
en," -
many voices in the church under the gospel dil!-
peusation, -" Now is come saivatioD, and strength, and
the kingdom of our God, and the power of his Christ.."-
This represents the grand chorus of all the saints, wheD
they discover the true principle on which the kingdom
of God is built.. This was literally true at the day of
Pentecost.. -
"For the accuser of our brethren is cast
down, which accused them before our God night and
day." The Romans had, by drawing the Jews into
idolatry, caused them to sin against God in all their
evening and morning sacrifices. Ami by t1iese means,
they were accused before God, that is, God was angry
with them, and destroyed our brethreD, the Jews.
Verse 11, "And they overcame hinl by the blood oC
the Lamb," -
by the blood of atonement, all believers in
Christ dQ finally overcome the powers of darkness and
princes of this world, -" and by the word of their testi-
mony,"-preaching and testimony of the apostles. .....
"And they loved not their lives unto the death"-
Digitized by Google

cBaI~T's SECOJfD COiliNG.
llUft'ered martyrdom. This WllII fWfilled in the death of
the apostles and others.
Verse 12, " Therefore rejoice ye heavens, and ye that
dwell in them." It was a matter of great joy among the
primitive Christian.s, to be counted worthy.to 8u!fer per-
secution for Christ's sake. "Woe to the mhabltants of
the earth," -
those who live under the Roman govern-
ment,- " and of the sea," -
meaning the principal king-
dom among the ten kingdoms. France is generally
meant by lUI in this prophecy. "For the devil is come
down unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth
that he hath but a snort time.,! The dwil means
destroyer, and the three woes, and seven last plagues,
were all to be sent upon the earth and sea, which denote
wars, revolutions, and changing of governments. These
things would prevail in the close of this Roman king-
dom, and war would be the olosin~ up of the earthly
scene of this fourth kingdom which Daniel saw and
John hlis been describing under the figure of the "great
red dragon."
Verse 13," And when the dragon saw that he was
cast unto the earth," -
when the Roman government '
saw they could have DO control in the things of Christ's
kingdom, they hated the church and the doctrine that
taught that Christ's kingdom was not of this world, aDd
they" persecuted the woman that brought forth the man
child," which is the church that had a Savior born unto
her, Christ Jesus, the Lord of life and glory.
Verse 14," And to the woman was Kiven two winlf!'
of a great eagle," -
by which wings I understand the
means God used between the Arian and Papal contro-
versy, at the time of the division of the Greek or eastern
church from the west or Roman church, which happened
in the reign of Justinian, emperor of the east, about A.
D. 538, when the controversr arose concerning the
worshipping of departed saints, lma,as, and the infallibil-
ity of the Church at Rome. In this controversy, many
privately withdrew themselftll, and settled in the' north-
west part of Asia and in the north-east part of Europe,
~
after a number of years colonies were sent by them
Digitized by Google

LECTI1B.E XIV.
into Piedmont and valleys of the Alps, where it ..
supposed the true worship of God was retained during
the dark ages of Papal ignorance, bigotry, and super-
stition. (See Milner's Church History, and Ben~dict'l
History of the Baptists.) -" that she might fly into the
wilderness, into her place," -
a separation from the
world, as says the voice from heaven, " Come out of her,
my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that
ye receive not of her plagues," Rev. xviii 4. -" where
she is nourished for a time, times, and half a time," -
fed
and nourished by the spirit and word of God 1260 years.
.. from the face of the serpent" -
from the knowledge
of Papal Rome.
Verse 15, " And the serpent cast out of his mouth wa-
ters as a flood after the woman," - UItJter', in prophecy,
means people, Rev. xvii. 15. Therefore I understand
this prophecy to have been fulfilled when the Pope, the
head of Papal Rome, sent forth his armies and inquisition
to subdue the heretics, as he called them, who dwelt in
the valleys of the Alps, which was about the beginning
of the thirteenth century, -" that he might cause her to
be carried away of the flood" -
exterminated and de-
stroyed by his armies and inquisition.
Verse 16, " And the earth helped the woman, and the
earth opened her mouth and swallowed up the flood
which the dral{on cast out of his mouth." This verse
was fulfilled ill the wars which followed the above-
mentioned time of persecution, in which the German
princes helped their subjects against the &raies of the
POjle, and destroyed and swallowed up many of the Pa-
pal armies, from the thirteenth to the fifteenth century.
Or, as some authors have supposed, the tDater, which
the draa'on cast out of his mouth was the flood of
errors wruch arose about the time of the French revolu
tion, under the name of Deism, whi.:h was calculated to
destroy the doctrine of the gospel, as they vainly
supposed, backed up by the republican armies of France,
and afterwards by the power of Bonaparte, who was
finally subdued by the combinations of the kinp of the
earth. But, as this transaction seems to me to be too
Digitized by Google

· CHBlST'S SECOR COilING.
late to affect the woman in her exiled state, I have in-
clined, in my humble opinion, to my first exposition of
these texts.
Verse 17, "And the dragon was wroth with the wo-
man," -
Papal Rome was angry with the true church,-
"and went to make war with the remnant of her seed."
This war has not yet come; for it is evident by the ex-
pression" remnant of her seed," that it means the last of
the church" who keep the commandments of God, and
have the testimony of Jesus Christ." This is the last
struggle of this anti-Christian beast, and is described in
many places as the last great battle, or the s'!fper of the
great God. Such expressions as "and went, as though
this power would go to BOme place out of their own
temtory, and "the kings of the east might be prepared,"
show that they will go west. I am, therefore, con-
strained to believe that this battle of the dragon's last
power will be in America; and if so, it must be mainly
m these United States. It will be a battle on politi~al
principles, IIB"we may learn by the passalre in Rev. xvi.
13-16, "And I saw three unclean SPirits like frogs
come out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the
mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false
prophet; " -
the "unclean spirits" shows that it is politi-
cal principles; and, like the frogs in Egypt, it will per-
vade all the departments of life -
the social, civil, and
religious. By " dragon," we must understand the kings
of the earth; by the " beast," Papal principles, or the
churcb of Rome; by the "mlse propbet," Mahometan
power; -
" for they are the spirit of devils, working mira-
cles," - that is, spirit of deceit, separating friends, divi-
ding kingdoms, states, societies, churches, and families,
and crumblinir every man-malle institution, and'levelling
to the dust all law, order, and bond of union, which the
wisdom of man may have invented, -" which go forth
unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world."
This shows the universal spread of this fanatical spirit
of disorganization, and it will finally lead to" gather
them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty."
"Behold, I am come as a thief. Blessed is he that
watc.heth and keepeth his garments, lest he walk naked
,
Digitized by Google

LBCTI7U XI".
snd mer see his shame." We are here notified that
bis cOmln~ will be like a thief to those whoare engaged
in this pohtical warfare, and in those popular and men-
made societies of the day; and we are told that those
will be blessed who watch, that is, for his coming, and
the signs of the times, and that keepeth his garments
unspotted from these worldly institutions, which engen-
der strife and animositf among brethren. Be warned,
dear Christian," enter lDto thy chamber, and hide thy-
self for a little moment, until the indignation be over
and past, that ye need not be ashamed before him at his
coming." It will also be a battle of religiollB 'principles,
as is evident by the following scnT· ture, Rev. lWt. 11-16,
" And I saw heaven opened, an behold, a white horse;
and he that sat upon him- was called Faithful and True,
and in righteollBness he doth judge and make war. His
eyes were as a Ilame of fire, and on his head were many
crowns; and he had a name written that no man knew
but he himself, and he was clothed with a vesture
dipped in blood; and his name is called The Word of
Goel.
And the armies which were in heaven followed
him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and
clean. And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, tlIat
with it he should smite the nations; and he shall rule
them with a rod of iron i and he treadeth the wine-press
of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God." This·
passage proves that there will be at tho close of this dis-
pensation, immediately preceding the marriage of the
Lamb to his bride, a great and last struggle between
error and truth, between infidelity and' the word of God.
And you may inquire, perhaps, and with propriety too,
How shall we know on which side we are en~ged in
this r,eat war of principle? I answer, "In ngliteons-
ness, he doth make war. But, say you, we are so prone
to follow tradition or preposs~ed notions, and think we
are right, that, like Paul, we may be found at last fighting
against God. You mllBt see to it, that you are "fiiithful
and true," have faith in his name, "and his name is The
Word of God." This is your only rule -
The Word of
God. Be careful; lay yourselves on this word. TlJ
yourselves by this standard. If your life, faith, expen
Digitized by Google

CHRIsT's SECOJD) COlllllfa.
eDce, and hope, are built on this foundation, you can
never fail; for he that is The Word of God, is " KIN G
01<' KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS-" Again: it
is to be a literal battle with the sword, for Chridt says,
"He that taketh the sword shall die by the sword."
And kings, Papal Rome, and the Mahometans, have
ruled the world by the sword, and their swords, during
all the days of their power, have been red with the blood
of their subjects, and the innocent victims of their hate.
And in Rev. xix. 17-20, it is evident, by the "fowls'"
l!lpoken of in the 17th verse, is meant, warriors in favor
ofliberty who are to "eat (destroy) the flesh (strength or
power) of kings, and the flesh of captains, and the Besh
of mighty men, and the Bash of horses, and them that sit
on them, (armies are undoubtedly meant in this passage,)
and the Besh of all men," who are engaged in favor of
kings, papal Rome, or false prophet, "both free and bond,
both smafl and great." "And I saw the beast and the
kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together
to make war against him that sat on the horse, and
against his army." "And he gathered them together
into a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon,"
(awake to the spoil,) Rev. xvi. 16-21.
These will be the means the dragon will use in hill
last great struggle to gain ascendency over the minds,
cOllsciences, and bodies of men. He will fan up their
political animosities; he will stir up strife and division
among religious communities; and, last of all, and not
least, he will encourage an intolerable thirst for blood.
In which battle Christ will come, chain the dralfon, give
his body to the burning Bame, confine the spints of all
who worship the dragon, beast or false prophet, in I.he
pit of woe; raise the saints, purify, cleanse, and glorify
them with his own glory.
IV. We are to speak of the time the saints, orchurcb,
were to be in ·the wilderness, "one thousand two hun.
dred and tin'eescore days." I believe all comment&-
tors agree that the~e day8 are to be understood yUl1'8;
and, as I have proved this point in a former lecture, r
leed not stop to argue this given principle at this time.
DOt will proceed to give lOme proof when this time be..
Digitized by Google

LEC'l'UB& :lI:IV.
gan and when it ended. The tune given in our text IS
the Bame length of time as given by Daniel for the reign
of the little horn. See Daniel vii. 25. It is, also, the
lame time John has given for the image beast to have
power" to continue forty and two months." Thirty days
to a month is 1260 days, Rev. xiii. 5. It is, also, the
same length of time that was given the Gentiles to tread
the holy city under foot. See Rev. xi. 2. Also for the
witnesses to prophesy, clothed in sackcloth. Rev. xi. 3.
And there can hardly be a shadow of a doubt but that
all taese times had their beginning and ending at one
and the same time. If so, then the arguments used here-
tofore may have their proper bearing in thIS place.
But let us consider a few things in addition to our
former reasons. 1st. What may we understand by the
woman" fleeing into the wilderness," and" from the face
, of the serpent." We must consider it in a state of ob-
scurity; this was true in the time we have stated, A. D.
5:38.
Historians tell us but little about any rel!'Ular
church but the Roman church, &I).d this has never been
in an obscure state; of conrse the Roman is not the
church in the wilderness. But they do tell us that, in
the days of Justinian, emperor of Constantinople, there
were many schismatics, as they were called, who opposed
the power of the bishop or pope of Rome, and doings of
councils in the east and west, and a large share of the lat-
ter part of Justinian's life was spent in religious broils
and expelling from his kingdom these schismatics; and
the code of laws which he published about A. D. 533,
forbade any Christians any rights or privileges as citizens
in his empire who would not acknowledge the bishop of
Rome as head. And in these Jaws he gave the bishop
power to hold courts and try all matters of faith within
his kingdom. These, and other things of like import,
drove all true followers of the word of God to seek a
rest out of the jurisdiction of the city of nations; and,
!)f course, became outlaws to the Roman government.
Then, if we fix the beginning of the exile of the church
at the same time of setting up anti-Christ, A. D. 538,
then the church was in its exiled .tate until A. D. 1798,
which would be the 1260 years. It is here worthy of
Digitized by Google

CHRIS.,!;'S S~9JID COMING.
reQlar~ til t the fode of la f's passed by J ustinilln wer~
in f\.ill force in the kingdoms belonging to, or under the
con~l of, the. pope of .Ro~e, re~pecting the rigbts a~d
privIleges of those who might differ from the Catholic
faitq, until th.e Freqch took Rome, in 1798, and declared
Itl!1y a rep\lblic j wben free toleration was given for anr
religiQ\ls opipion or privilege )vhatsoever. Here, then,
the cburch, in whatever form she might appear, was per-
mitted to enjoy the rights and privileges of citizens, and
to worship God as their conscience might dictate. This
is the first time, during the 1260 years, that free tolera-
tion of. reli~ion was granted in any kingdom where ~e
Catholic cDurch had power j and, although Cathohc
princes and popes have since bad rule in Italy and
France, yet they have never dared, as yet, to pursue
their former intolerant course of conduct towards Prot-
estants. And it is very evident, my dear friends, that
the church is now out of the wilderness; that is, if she
ever was j for there never has been a time since the
days of the apostles, no, nor even then, that the church,
in all its several branches, has enjoyed greater privileges
than for nearly forty years past. She has spread her
wings over every land, and carried the new~ of salvation
into every language on the lmown world. Her reapers
have followed the sowers of seed, and there is handsfull
of corn in the tops of all the mountains j but the harvest
is short. The church has had rest as IOl)g as she has
ever had since Christ left her and ascended to his Fa-
tber. The dragon begins to show his anger; the trum-
pet begins to sound to the onset; tile armies of the
beast beO'in to muster for the battle, they are furbish.ing
their sw7>rds for the slaughter; the kings of the earth
nre combining against the freedom of their subjects;
the great men and nobles are riveting closer the chains
of their vassals; tyrants are braiding in firmer knots
their scorpion whips for their slaves j upedimcy has
taken the room of mOlal law, and anarchy has crowded
order from his seat; mobs have taken the place of judges,
and lllw is populllr will; the liberty of the press is but
the nod of demagogues, and the freedom of speech is
.

L 'J!CTcalI xl'r.
called fanaticism. Division Beems to be the order of
the day, and our valuable institutions are tottering to
their base. Be warned, then, 0 my friends, to seek
safety under the banner of the gospel before the armies
are filled up. "And the dragon was wroth with the
woman, and went to make war with the remnant of her
seed which keep the cOlTUDandments of God, and bave
the testimony of Jesus Christ." "The spirit of proph-
ecy"
, ,
O;git"ed byGoogle

LECTURE XV.
'\
REV. xvi. 17.
And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air; and there
came a great voice out of the temple of heave .. , from Ihe throne,
saying, It is done.
THIS text is the account we have in the word of God
of the last plague that will ever visit our world, or the
inhabitants who hereafter will be permitted to dwell
thereon. That is evident, because it is the seventh of
the last seven. For John says, Rev. xv. 1," And I saw
another sign in heaven, great and marvellous, seven an-
gels having the seven la8t plCL(flU!8; for in them is filled
up the wrath of God." And thel'vrath of God is filled
up, that is, the cup of God's wrath of which he will make
all nations drink; and he will give unto Babylon" the
cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath."
'rhen it cannot be uninteresting to those who wish or
who may desire to learn where and when the last plagues
have been poured out, and how many yet remain for us
to experience. These seven last plagues have had their
shadows in the plagues which God sent on slave-holding
Egypt, when he delivered his people, the Jews, from their
Egyptian bondage, the least of which plagues destroyed
Pharaoh and his host, just in the moment w..llen IsraeL
were shoutinlf deliverance on the banks of thl!"Red Sea.
So likewise, 1D the seven last plagues, they are poured
out upon spiritual Egypt, slave-holding Babylon, who
has enslaved the people of God for centuries, and ha&
trafficked in the bodies and souls of men.
She, like

!.EcrU" Xl'.
Egypt, has appointed task-masters over the church, and
has endeavored to stra~le her children in the birth.
She has commanded the kings and rulers of the earth to
destroy the children of the church, 8S did the Egyptians
the Hebrew midwives; but the church has found favor
in the eyes of SOOle of the kings and princes of the earth,
and the earth has helped the woman, and her children
are not all dead.
And their cry has gone up to the Lord
of Sabaoth, and he has come down in these seven last
plagues to deliver his people from the hand of the spoiler,
and from the power of the benst, the anti-Christiau
abomination; and when this last vial is poured into the
air, all the doctrines, of men and devils, and all the the-
ories of men and the wisdom of this world will be con-
founded and brou 17ht to nought. Tile Lord will over-
whelm with the re3 and fiery wrath of his last judgment
the kings of the earth, the beast or Catholic church of
abomination, the false prophet and all his fbllowers, the
great men of the earth, mighty men and captains, ty-
rants, slave-holders, rich and poor, bond and free: all
who have worshipped the beast or his image, will, like
-the host of Pharaoh, be destroyed in the general confla-
gration of the world, and the saints will shout deliver-
ance in the New Jerusalem state. I shal~ therefore,
I. Give the history of the seven last plagues, or the
seven vials of wrath.
II. Show what may be understood by "n i.9 (ume."
I. Then we are to give the history of the seven vials
or last plagues; and for this purpose we must give a com-
ment on the sixteenth chapter of Revelation. Verse 1,
" And I heard a great voice out of the temple, saying to
the seven angels, Go your ways, and pour out the vials
of the wrath of God upon the earth.» This verse shows
us that these plagues are poured upon the earth at the
command of him who sits in the temple of God. Verse
2, " And *i.e first went, and poured out Ilia vial upon the
earth; and there fell a noisome and grievous sore upon
the men which had the mark of the beast, and upon them
which wotshipped his image." This first vial was poured
upon the earth, meaning the kingdom of the beast or the
Roman government. .\ noisome, a grievous sore, indi-

CHRIST'I RCOIID COMmS.
cates the dissolution of the body a1Hicted, and that the
constitution is laboring under some inwllrd disease, or
affected by contagion from without. It is therefore a fit
emblem to represent the exposure of the corruptions of
the church of Rome, Ilnd breaking out of those loath-
some diseases of internal abominations which had been
hid for ages from the world by the cun':ling. craftiness
of this Papal beast. The men spoken of m thlS passage
are those who worship the beast, and who are the pro-
fessed followers of this corrupt society, and all who live
under the influence and control of the idolatrous city of
nations, and who traffic in her indulgences and abomi-
nable practices. This vial then began to be poured out
when the Protestants first published to the world the
corruptions and abominable practices of the church of
Rome, when the world began to see the noisome and
grievous sores that covered the men who pretended to
preach or proclaim the doctrine, laws, or commands of
tillS beast. And of course this plague was sent on the
Romieh church about the year A. D. 1529, under the
preaching of Luther, Calvin, and others who opposed and
exposed the corruptions of the church of Rome.
Verse 3, "And the second angel poured out his vial
upon the sea, and it became as the blood of a dead man j
and every living soul died in the sea."
The sea, In
prophetic language, is the centre of some great nation,
or society of men, as in a restless and turbljlent state j
and the things living in the sea, are the persons living
under the power or control of this nation, or society.
Living soul denotes those persons who have been b!Jm
of the Spirit, and are in possession of that living faith
in God, and love for all men. " As the blood of a dead
man." There is something very striking in this figure-
not an ordinary figure of blood, which clenotes war and
mortal controversy, but cold, congealed blood; the blood
of a dead m'm denotino- a massacre in cool blood, with-
out any resistance on tbe part of those murdered. This
vial was, then, poured out in France, the principal king-
dom in the Roman ten hOTns, in tllC yeur A. D. 15i2, at
the massacre of the HlIO"u e not~ on St. Bn.rtbolomew's
eve, when 50,000 were slain in nne night, and the streetlf
19"
•

ran blood, as Sully tells liB, in some places ankle deep,
in the city of Paris. This massacre was in cold blood;
for the same historian tells UB, that the king stood in hid
balcony, and shot down his naked and defenceless sub-
jects as they were fleeing through the streets. 'l'his
happened in France, the stoutest of the Papal horns-
the chief instrument in establishing, building up, and
supportin!r that cruel, murderous power of Papacy.
Verse 4, " And the third angel poured out his vial up-
on the rivers and fountains of waters, and they hecame
blood." By" rivers and fountains of water," I under-
stand the nations and states who live around the centre,
or sea, as it was called in the preceding vial. By" blood,"
I understand destructive war. "And I heard the an!l"el
of the waters say, Thou art righteous, 0 Lord, whICh
art, and wast, and shalt be, because thou hast judged
thus.
For they have shed the blood of saints and
prophets, and thou hast f· ven them blood to drink, fqr
they are worthy.
And heard another out of the altar
say, Even so, Lord God Almighty, true and ri~hteous
are thy judgments." In these verses we have tne rea-
sons given, why they were visited with this scourge of
war, becanse, in the preceding vial, they had shed the
blood of saints; which proves that the exposition of that
vial, which I have already given, is correct. This vial,
then, was poured out upon the nations that had ~iven
their strength and their power to the beast; ana the
governments were filled with war and blood. This vial
was poured out about A. D. 1630, and lasted nearly fifty
years. Spain and Portugal carried on a bloody and de-
structive war for more thail thirty years of this time.
France was torn by civil and intestine wars during a
long period. The civil wars in En/i"land began under
king Charles I., 1642, which lasted wlth but little cessa-
tion, until king George I. ascended the throne, in 1714.
Germany was filled with blood, between tlle contentions
of the Evangelical league and Catholic league, " which
gave rise to a ruinous war, which lasted thirty years."
See Guthrie, vol. i., page 443. This war was headed! on
the part of the Protestants, by Gustavus Adolphus, kmg
of Sweden, who was killed at the battle of Lutzen, A.
O;g; "ec Or Coogle

CHRIST'S SECOND COMING.
D. 1632, which war lasted until the peace of Munster
1648. The other kingdoms of the ancient empire of
Rome were more or less drenched in blood, and civil
wars, on account of their reli~ious tenets, and ponten.
tion of their rulers and sovereign princes. These were
the heavy judgments 1fhich God saw fit to inflict upon
the kingdoms and states of the church of Rome, for the
innocent blood which she had shed of the Protestants
who had protested against her cnlel and blasphemous
practices. " For they have shed the blood of saints and
prophets, and thou hast given them blood to drink, for
they are worthy." "And the fourth an~el poured out his
vial upon the sun, and power was given unto him to
scorch men with fire,
And men were scorched with
great heat, and blasphemed the name of God, which hath
power over these plagues j and they repented not to give
him glory." The sun is the great source of light and
heat, and, in prophetic langlfage, is an emhlem of the
gospel, as explained in the 19th Psalm, 4-J O.
" Their
line has gone out through all the earth, and their words
to the end of the world. In them hath he set a taberna·
cle for the sun," &c. To" scorch men" with fire, signifies
to make men angry; "great heat," unl"ommonly angry,
vengeful, malicious. This vial was poured out in the
last century, when the gospel was proclaimed in these
kin adorns of the beast. Now, during the greater part
of the last century, and in all the kingdoms where the
gospel was preached, there were manifested insidious
attempts and a systematic opposition against the gospel
of Jesus Christ, or the Holy Scriptures. This opposi-
tion was headed by Frederick, king of Prussia, and aided
by all the wits, men of genimf and learnin<>", as they
boasted, of all Europe and America; and in their secret
aseemblies, or clubs, they went so far os to calculate
about what length of time it would take for them to de-
stroy and exterminate the religion of the "Galilean and
his twelve fishermen j" and no writers that ever wrote
took such unwearied pains, showed so much virulence
and nnger, blasphemed the name of God to such a de-
gree, as these writers; and none, either before or since,
have ever dare
to exhibit the like.
" And they re-

, .LBC'!;1HlE xv.
peut,ed not to give him the glory." I believe it i. 'not
known, that any of these principal deistical writers were
converted to the religion ofJ esus Christ,before their death,
to giv~ God the glory. Yet I think we have some ac-
count of many of them dying in,horror, at the frightfUl
view of the future, in consequence of their blasphemou.
lives against the majesty of the King of kings. There-
fore, in the history of the Deists in the eigi).teenth cen-
tury, we have the history of the plague of the fourth
vial. " And the fifth an~l poured out his vial upon the
seat of the beast; and hIB kingdom was full of darkness,
and they gnawed their tongues for pain, and blasphemed
the God of heaven, because of their pains and their
sores, and repented not of their deeds." "The seat of
the beast" must mean those ten kingdoms on which the
woman sitteth, which is ancient Rome. " Full of dar~­
ness" must mean full of wickedness, confusion, and
every evil work.
.. Gnawed their tongues for pain Of
shows shame, disgrace, and disappointment. This vial
was poured out in the French revolution, about 1798.
When Bonaparte began his extraordinary career, exalted
to the pinnacle of pow!'r, he dethrones the pope~ (whoSe
power and authority had made kings and emperors quail
at his feet, who had ruled over the nations with despotic
sway for more than 1200 years,) and makes Rome the
second city of France,; conquers the ancient monarc~\es j
deluges every country with blood; masters e!~ry.klDg;
gathers spoils from every land, and, humbles CIties lD the
. dust j changes the laws of kingdoms, and destroys'tlle
most sacred constitutions of the Roman sJ;ates. In, this
revolution among the Roman kingdoms, and under this
vial, the bastile was demolished, the inquisition de~yed,
torture suppressed, and the power of the Papal clergy
restrained. Their kingdoms were full of darkness; fhey
were troubled, chafed, and grieved; a thOlIBand ,plots
werll laid; many times they confederated against him,
the master spirit of ,the Jimes j but they prevailed' n~,
nnlil this vial had its apcomplishment on the seat of the
beast.
Ye4 after all this wondQrfui displny of God's
judgments upon the be:u;t ::md Iring-doms of ancient
Romo, they repented not, but, Pharaoh-like, they bIas·
Digitized by Google

cualsT'i BJ!CcmD 00.11'9.
phemed God, becanse of their pains and their sores.
" And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great
river Euphrates j and the water thereof was dried up,
that the way of the kings of the east might be pre-
pared."
The scene has now changed from Europe to
Turkey. The" river Euphrates,j""means, in prophecy, the
people of that country bordering on the nver, and, of
course, refers to the Turkish power, as I have formerly
shown in my lecture on the fifth and sixth trumpet
"Water thereof was dried up," is an emblem of the
power and strength of that kingdom being diminished,
or taken away. This vial was po\lred out on Turkey,
by the loss of a great share of the empire j first, Russia on
the north in her last war with the Turks, took away a
numbet of provinces j then, by the revolt of Ali Pacha;
then, by the rising of the Greeks j since, by the Albani-
ans and Georgians, and other distant parts of the e'm-
pire, becoming disaffected j which, all together, have so
wasted the power of the Turks, that, now, it is very
doubtful whether she can maintain her power against
her own intestine enemies j and, to compare her now
with her former lVeatness, would be like comparing a
fordable stream with the great river Euphrates j so that
thq way now appears to be preparecl for the kings to
come up to the battle of the great day, in which the
false prophet is now to take his part, as we shall see in
our next verse.
" And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out
of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the
beast, and out of the mouth of the fhlse prophet j for
they are the spirits of devils working miracles, which go
forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole worrd,
to gather them to the battle of the great day of God
Almighty." Now, if we can decipher this passage, we
can tell what are now and what will be the signs of the
times. "Three unclean spirits." By this we must un-
derstand three wicked principles. "Frogs" I understand
to show us that it is political. As frogs came over the
land in the judgment on Egypt, and perl'aded every
house, even the palace of the king, 80 do politics.
" Mouth" denotes orders or commands. The dragon is

LEC'tU.B.E XV.
It figure of the kings of the earth. The beast is used to
represent Papacy. The false prophet evidently repre
sents Mahometanism. These have all the spirit of
devils.
The devil pretends to claim power over all the
kingdoms of the world, (see Rev. xii 9,) there called the
devil. Papacy is said, in Rev. xiii. 2, to receive its
power from the dragon, and to come out of the bottom-
less pit, and shall go into perdition; of course, must be-
long to Satan's kingdom. The false prophet, too, is to
be "cast alive into a lake of lire burning with brim-
atone." All these powers have pretended to work mira,.
cles, to establish their authority over the bodies and
souls of men.
But what are the principles which each
of these teach their political followers? 'rhe dragon
and his political party, in whatever nation they may
appcar, (as all three of these political principles must
peFvade the whole earth,) will support tyranny, slavery,
and aggrandizement of the few at the expense of many.
The beast and his political party will be known onll by
their hypocrisy, bigotry, and superstition. Their prmcl-
pal object will be to operate on the hopes and fears of
men, and so gain an ascendency over the minds of the
individuals who may be so unfortunate as to be found in
their ranks. The faIse prophet will fill his party with
notions of infidelity, lust, and conquest.
And the spirit
of all these parties, working at one and the same time,
in all nations, and among all people, will produce an ef-
fect which only can be known to mortals in experiencing
the conflict. " Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he
that watcheth, and keepeth his garments, lest he walk
naked, and they sec his shame." This verse gives ns
notice of the near approach of him who hath all power
in heaven and earth. " For when they say, Peace and
safety, then sudden destruction cometh upon them, and
tlley shall not escape. But ye, brethren, are not in
darkness, that that day shall overtal;e you as a thief."
'Vatch, therefore, for if ye have put on the Lord Jesus
Christ, keep your garment, and let none tnke your
crown, iliat you may be found of him without spot nnd
blameless. "And he gathered them together into 1\
place called, in ilie Hebrew tongue, Armageddon;" that

CHRl . r's SECOND COMING.
is, "Where the Lord will declare his precious fruit."
This gathering is tha same spoken of in Matt. xxv. 32,
"And before him shall be gathered all nations j and he
shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd di-
videth his sheep from the goats." In the place Arma-
geddon, the Lord will manifest who are his j he will
separate the chaff from the wheat, the wicked from the
just. The wheat he will gather into his garner j they
will be caught up to meet the Lord in the air, while the
chaff will be burnt with unquenchable fire.
His own
right hand shall save us while his last plague shall be
poured out upon the head of his enemies. "And the
• seventh angel poured his vial into the air; and there
came a great voice out of the temple of heaven from the
throne, saying, It is done." The seventh and la!!t vial
of God's wrath will be poured into the air about the
yellr 1840, if my former calculations are correct, when
this judgment will have a quick and rapid circulation
over the whole globe. Like the air, it wIll pervade
every kingdom, circulate into every nation, sow the seeds
of anarchy in every society, and diilorganize every
bond of union among men, except the gospel. "And
there were voices, and thunders, and lightnin!T~, and a
great earthquake, such as was not since ;;en were
upon the earth, so mighty o.n earthquake, and so great."
Voice", political strife.
Thunders is an emblem of di-
visions. Lightning is a representation of o.nger and
war.
Great earthquake denotes a great revolution.
And thflre will be, when this vial is poured out, political
strife among all nations, divisions among all sects, socie-
ties, and associations of men upon earth. Anger, war, and
bloodshed will fill the countries with horror and dismay;
and a great revolution, such o.s was not since men were
upou earth, so mighty a revolution and sO great. "And
the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities
of the nations fell; and great Babylon came in remem-
brance before God, to ~ive unto her the cup of the wille
of the fierceness of his wrath." The great city is the
woman which reigneth over the kings of the earth, says
the al}gel, Rev. xvii. 18.
And the woman is Papacy.
Papacy must also be divided into three parties, to show

J.JCCTUAB Xl',
her dissolution.
And the cities of the nations fell.
As
city denoted the papal power and religion, so does CIties
represent the power and religion of all other nations.
Therefore all the {lOwer, and all national religion, will
fall in and under tillS vial, and the anti-Christian power
will be judged; aU their sins, cruel persecutions, and
bl«ody deeds, will be brought into judgment into re-
Jne\Ilbrance before God, and he will fill to her.the cup
which she has made others drink, and she in her turn
must drink the dregs. "And every island fled away,
nnd the mountains were not found."
Islands ·and f1Wun-
tains are figures of great and small kingdoms and gov-
ernments. This text alludes to the same time and .
circumstances which N ebuchadnezzar's dream does,
Daniel ii. 35, 45 -
when the stone cut out without
hands shall smite the image upon his feet, and all the
kingdoms of the earth be carried away, that no place
shall be found for them. In this verse it is, the" moun-
tains were not found." "And there fell upon men a
great !Jail out of heaven, f'very stone about the weight
of a talent, and men blasphemed God because of' the
plague of the hail; for the plague thereof was exeeed-
!DO' great." Thi" closes the history of the seven last
pl~gues, and this storm of hail is the last part of the
seventh vial; it is the closing up of the judgments of God
on an ungodly world.
Whether we are to under"tand
this hail figuratively or literally, I am oat able to say;
but my prevailing opinion is, that we are to understand
it literally, for this reason- I have never been able in the
word of God to find any fjO'urative explanation, although
it is used in a number of places with particular reference
to the last day. Isn. xxviii. 17, "Judgment also will I
lay to .the line, and rightcousness to the plummet, and
the hllll shall sweep awa.y the refuge of lies, and the
waters shall overflow the hiding-places." xxx. 30,
., And the Lord shall cause his glorious voice to be
heard, nnd shall show the lightillg down of his arm,
with the indignation of his anger, and with the flame of
a devouri~ fire, with scattering, and tempcst, and hail-
stones."
~zek. xiii. 11, 13, "Say unto them which
da.ub it with un,tempered mortar, that it shall tall i there
Diaitizea l)yGoogle

CIlBlST,'. aacon COJ(Il'fG.
shall be an overflo,,,ing shower j and ye, 0 great hail-
Btones, shall fall j and a stormy wind shall rend it.
Therefore, thus saith the Lord God, I will even rend it
with a stormy wind in my fury j and there shall be an
overflowing shower in mine anger, and great hail-stones
in my fury, to consume it." Ezek. xxxviii. 22, "And
I will plead against him with pestilence and with blood j
and I will rain upon him, and upon his bands, and upon
the many people that are witll him, an overtlowing rain,
alld great hail-stones, fire and brimstone." Also, Rev.
xi. 19.. "And there were lightnings, and voices, and
thunderings, and an earthquake, and great hai!."
By reading the connection of tllese texts, you cannot
but be struck with the agreement of the prophets in their
descriptions of this last and dreadful judgment of God
upon the world.
All of them evidently fix it on the last
day j all call it apparently a rain of great hail-stones,
like tllOse which fell upon Egypt in the days of Moses.
Exodus ix. 23-25, "And Moses stretched forlll his rod
toward heaven; and the Lord sent thunder and hail, and
tile fire ran along upon tile ground j and the Lord rained
hail upon tile land of Egy pt.
So tIlere was hail, and
fire mingled witll the hail, very grievous, such as there
was none like it in all tile land of Egypt since it be-
came a nation. And the hail smote tllloughout all the
land of Egy)Jt~ all that waS in the field, both man and
beast j and tile hail. smote every herb of tl,e field, and
brake every tree of tile field."
This, it is evident, is tile
type of the last prut of the seventh plague.
And now, my friends, will you believe? Six of these
plagues have been accomplished., in as literal a manner
as we could expect, after a fair nnd scriptural explana-
tion of tile figures and metaphors used. And again I
ask, Do you believe? You think, perhaps, you will wait
until you sec the hail come, and then you will believe.
But will you not recollect that Ollr text says, " And they
blasrhemed God because of tile plague of the hail"?
Wil you tlms tempt God through six slIccessive judg-
ments, and wait for tile last before you will believe?
W~t hope or prospect have you tIlat the seventh will
do what the silt preceding could not do -
tllat i " make

,MI belklft ? I. there one rational cOuricbon that you
will be then convinced? No, not one. Then will yoQ
Dot see and learn wisdom by what is gone before P
Pharaoh had no sp:u:e for repentance under,or even just
before the last plague. And 10 it will be with you; the
door will have been shut before any part of the seventh
vial will be poured out, for thea will be heard a great
"foice reverberating through the upper vault of heaven,
and, sounding even to the dark cells of the pit of woe,
shaking the middle air with its deep-toned thunder, and,
like the l~tning, darting its vivid 1Iash of me froll east
to west, will pierce the deafest ear, and make the Juudest
heart to break, although a thousand fiJld more hard than
the adamantine rock, saying, "It iB done." This brings
me to show,
It. What we may understand by " It is done."
.
The first question which naturally ames on the mind
is, What is done? When Christ was about expiating
for the sins of the world; when he was closing up the
work which his Father gave him to do on earth in the
fleah; when the spirit was about leaving the tenement
of clay which it had inhabited through a life of thirty ...
three years of pain, suff'erings, deprivationll,lOl!ro1F8,
~
&ad tears, made more acute·by temptations .,..
tng as tho ~h·demon of hell could inveDt~suft"eriag
reproach from the ha.ughty Pharisee, and,th(! more ...
mnats Sadducee, and contempt and ridicule tiom- the
bas:! rabble of his own people; perilecuted even until
death by the envy, malice; and hl.tred of tll698 who had
received boons and bleasingil of life at his hands,-htt had
saved them from disease, death, and the rage of demoM;
yet, in this moment of great need, he was forsaken of..
all; they stood afar off'; and when he was about giving
up the ghost, be cried, "It is finished!" and bowed his
• head, and died. The fratricide ma.n could do no ll1C)II8.j
he had followed him to death; beyond that tne envy of
his brother could not reach him. The rabble, who '.
few days before had cried, Hosannas to the Son of Da-
vid! this day were cryinl{, Crucify him! crucify him:
now could cry no more, nul with downcast lookl¥ re-
turned into the city. The Pharisees and rulers could
......t~ no more; they had plotted his death. and obtained
Digitized by Google

CHRIST', S~COND COMING.
~l
their object; but into the dark recess of the tomb
they dare not, they would not, follow. '.rhe great red
dragon (the Roman power) had sought his life when a
child, but the hour had not come. Herod sought his life
when a man, but he could not succeed until the last day
of the seventy weeks should be accomplished. Then
the powers of earth, wicked men, and devils, could com-
bine to take the life of the Lord of glory. Then, while
these powers had control, the heavens hid their face;
nature stood back aghast, and the material world shud-
dered with a groan. Then, at that awfUl, fitful period,
he who 'had been the object of all this malice, cried
with Ii loud voice, " It is finished!» The work on earth
in the flesh is finished; the temptations of Satan are
finished; the persecution of his brethren are finished';
envy, malice, and hatred towards the person of Christ are
finished; the power of earth, hell, and wicked men to do
any thing with him, is finished; death has no more ter-
rors over him. ' It is jiniaMd.
Although Christ had finished his work, and had endured
all the sufferings which he was to finish; yet in his
spiritual body, the church, the measure of his sufferingi'
was to be filled up. His people must pass through th~
Bame scenes in the world as their divine Master had ex-
perienced from satanic temptations and the hatred of the
world. "The world will hat!' you and persecute you
for my name's sake, even as they hated me bef@re they
hated you," says our blessed Redeemer. Therefore the
same manifestations of cruelty, contempt, persecution,
and death, were to be acted over again in the church
until the 2300 years should be accomplished, when
Christ would come again, receive home his weary, per-
secuted people, conquer death, and him that had the
power of death, which is the devil. ' "And there came a
great voice out of the temple of heaven from the throne,
saying, It is done!' The power of I!arth, hell, and wick-
ed men over the dear people of God, is done.
Their
temptation in the flesh is done; their trials, persecu60ns,
sufferings, darkness, fears, and death itself, are done.
As the sufferings of the head was finished in Christ, so
will all the pains of the body be com~leted when the
I8venth and last vif!.l shall be poured mto the air, and

LBCTuaE Xv.
deanse the 1ltm06pMre from all 1l0xlOUS vapors, I*-
tileooe, and deaih.
"Then ebBlI the Il8JIctuary'be
.:lea.aaed," and then will the great voice &om ,the Uaroue -
-I, It is dODe. These old heavens and this old earth
will have passed away, and the New Jerusalem come
"down from God out of heaven, prepared as a Ifride
adorned for her hu.band," Rev. xxi. 3-6.
" And I beard a great voice out of heaven, aaying, Be.
hold, the tabemruale of God is with men, 8.Ild he will dwell
with them, and they shall be his people, and God.bimlelf
Ithall be with ithem and be their God., and God'shall wipe
away a.ll tears from their eYeil j and there shall be DO
Plore death, neither 8OlTOw Jlor crying, neit.llershall theN
. be any more pain, for the feraer thinp ue]lMl8d -aWlIf'.
And he that sat upoB the throneilBid, Behola, I ma.1ae all
things Jle.. And be said .uato me, Write; ror tiIeee
words are true and faitbtW. . And he said umome, It ..
~ne." Here we have the IIUJle expreBllioa .. in ..
text, having the same identical meaning, the same "psat
Joice," in one as in -Ute other; the same throue, ud !he
auie voice speaking, all_i., to the same periofl of tiDte
whea·the old things ve done a1ray and· the tMnr heaveDI
are finished, to the aame poiJ¢ in prophec,., "the ead."
Therefore, as we have passed ,the llixth 'nal, the eeventla
and last bangs trembliDg in the air. Tbedrope of ~
viallll'e aheady contaminating the miAdI of men j aIJ:eatI1
YO see the unclean spirit going forth j ,the great c~ 18
being divided, and the signs of the hetWens denote •
moral conflict, and on the earth a speedy revolution.
,
Then, my mends, let us be wise j let uS mae peace
with Him who has power to 18.',e OJ' to deatroy. For we
learn by our subject that the world and worldly scenes
are passing away j every vestige of mortal gi'andeur,
fINery form of carnal pride, every fashion ofhuman glOl'f
will soon be eclipsed by the llJ'8.Ddeur of that great whiW
throne from whose &ce the neanne and earth will flee
away, and the great voice from the throne will sound
the last requiem, " It iB done."
.
.
" Y at when the &Quad sheD teR( the skies,
And lightning burn the ~obe .below,
Saints, )'011 may lift yoot' joyful eyes ;
TbeN's • _
JteaVaa _
earth far .1*1£"
Digitized by Google

L OT'RE X.
I
MATT.nv.l.
1'ben shall Ihe kingdom of heaven' be likened unlo len virgQJI
•
ich
ok eir m
aud en
rl
m I I
bn gr m.
AR' 'L
ar' al
y8 gil'
ill tn
me
trine:or subject which the speaker wishes to communi-
ca , a 1 is Jl asy r
:nf &J'
IIJl r
m in
hi
hea1'enl or readers understand the subject, and receive
a
ti ire on. NthiJh s..,1'()
ar ffe
the mind as to teach by parq,bles moral precepts or
sp tw
tr1
lB. In
is ay e re
u t
v bl
things, or fumiIiar objects, to realize, in some measure
th :ru s
d
bj ts
ee ted
T IS
Ill!
e
an-
ner Christ taught his disciples and followers, that thei
m.JO s
gh th
11K.
ily re
n, and
e often
refreshed, when the beheld any ce
rke the
'lre
se
ti
IlK, pa
Ie, an in
is 'Way, they mIght
always kee in 'e, the'mp-ta
trI-
t' Ii ne
to
e yan.ule. A pan.ble, rIghtly' applied and clear-
ly 1Ul
to--i,
'ves "Of i
ru 'on, an's
I
in-
ilhll5tratlOn of -the truth. But if we apply the parable
w
g, 'f
p
on
f se on ruc on, t
rv
to lead us into an error, and blind U8, instead of produ-
ci . Ii
t,
as h t
d
t
P ari es,
e
ak
to them In parables, that, "seeing, they might see Ilnd
no pe
ivan he rin
th
m ht ea
IIJl no un
derstand."
Jden often explain parables by fancy to
su th
~
tio,
:he.. a y
id ce ot
ei
own ingenuity; and by this means thruoe will be as m'ln
2 ..
Dial
j bv
,-

LECTURE XVI.
ditrerent explanations as there are ingenious men. But
I dare not trifle thus with the word of God: if we can·
not, by the word of God, explain, we had better leave
the same as we find it, and not attempt what must only
result in guess-work at last; but follow Scripture rule,
and we canno\ get far troln the ~
Christ has given
us rules by which to explain parablell, by explaining
some himself. . The explanations given by Christ of the
parable of the tares and the wheat, is a nlle that will
bear in about all cases. That he has given rules, is
very evident in his answer to his disciples, when they
asked him concerning his parables. Mark iv. 13, "And
he said unto them, Know ye not this parable? HOlt',
then, will ye know all parables?" That is, if ye ~der­
stand how I explain tillS parable, you will know how to
explain all others; but if you do not understand how I
explain this, you cannot explain all others." This is the
nlle. Christ made all the prominent parts of a parable
figures; such as the lOwer, Son of man; good .ced,
children of the kingdom; 'aru, children of the wicked.
one; 1tanJut, end of the world; reape7!. the angels; "aa,
therefore the tares are gathered and burned, l!O shaJl
it be in ilie end of the world," &e. Here is a sample;
good seed, tares, harvest, and reapers, are' figures rep-
resenting other things, as we have sbown.. "Butho!\,,"
ay you, "shall we always know what these figureilrep-
resent?" I answ~r, Bl the explanation given in other·
parts of the Bible. F or the word of God is its own
eXpo&itor, or it can be of nO manner of use to us ; fur
if we have to· apply to any other rule, to explain the
Bible, then, the o~r rule would be tantamount, and
have a precedence, and the Bible must fall of celllSe.
But it is not so.
Then,. to explain our subject, I
shall,
L Show what is meant by the figures used in the
parable.
II. The time to which this parable is applicableo
and,
. III. Make an application of our subJ6ct.
L I will explain the figures in the parable; ana, 1st,
.. kingdom of heaven" means the gospel day, at circle
Digitized by Google

· of God's government under the gospel dispenlll1boa
This I .man prove by the word gf God. Matt. iii. I, 2-
." In those days came John the Baptist, preaching in the
wilderness of Judea, and saying, Repent ya, for the
kiugdom of heaveD is at hand." That is, the gospel
day is come. Again:" Jesus came into Galilee preach-
ing the gospel of the kingdom of God, saying, The
time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at nand."
Luke xvi. 16," The law and the prolJhetB were until
John; since that time the kingdom of God is preached."
That is, the gospel day cOmmeDCed with John, sil)Ce
which time the ~pel is preached.
"Ten virginS meum maok~d in general, in a pro-
bationary state. liable to be wooed and betrothed to the
Lord, under ~e.gospel, and during the gospel day. See
Isaiah !xii. 1-5, "For aa a young man .marrieth a vir-
gin, 80 shall thy SODS IIlIIl'J')1 thee; and as the bridegroom
rejoiceth over the bride, 8f1 .hall thy God rejoice over
thee." It is evident, by the second vel'lle, that Gentiles
and Jews are both inc)wled in this prophecy.
"Five wise virgiDS" is a figure of believers in God,
or the children of the kingdom. Psalms xlv. la, ]4,
"The king'. daughter is all glori01l8 within; her cloth-
ing is of wrought gold. She shall be brought unto the
ki~ .in raiment of needle-work; the virgin~t her com-
""moDS that follow her, shall be brought unto thee."
" That I might comfort thee, 0 virgin daughter of Zion."
Lam. ii.]3.
.
" Five foolish" represents the unbelieving clus of man-
kind, while in thie probation!l"r State, under the meaDS
of rpace. This will be suffiCIently proved by the fol-
lowmg passages -
Isa. xlvii. 1, "Come down, and sit in
the dust, 0 mgin daughter of Babylon; sit on the
grollnd j there is no throne, 0 daughter of the ehal-
deans."
Jer. xlvi. 11, "0 virgin, the daughter of
Egypt: in vain shalt thou use many medicines; for
thou shalt not be cored." These texta prove, beyond
a doubt, that the wicked claaB of men are called virgiIU
by the Scriptures.
.
" Lamps" is a figure of the word of God; for thllt
9nIy can tell us about the New JeruBlllem; that only
Digitized by Google

caD inform us when Christ will come agam to the mar-
riage supper of the 'Lamb. The word of God is the
meana of moral light, to light our steps through moral
darkness, up to the coming of the bridegroom to receive
the bride unto himsel£ This I sball prove by the cxix.
Paalm, ](IS, "Thy word is a lamp to my feet, and a light
to my path." Also, Provo vi. 23, "For the command-
ment is a lamp, and the law is light; and reproofS ef
instruction are the way of life."
" Oil " is a representation or emblem of faith; as oil
produces light by buming, so does faith, in exercise by
the fire of love, produce more light, and gives comfort
in 'adversity, hope in darkness, love for the coming
bridegroom; and the light of faith I.IIIIiBta us to wat.cli
for his comiIJg, and to know the time of night, and to
go out to meet him: such are called the .children of
light, because' they are believers, children of faith,
"sons of oil." " Because or the savor of thy good oint-
menti, thy name is 8S ointment poured forth; therefbre
do the virgiss love thee;" Sol. SOIrg, i. 2.
" Faith
works by love." See 1 John ii. <,0, "But the anoiflting
which ye have received of him, abideth in you; and ye
need not that any man teach you; but as the same
anointing teachath you of all things, and is truth, and is
no lie, and even as.it hath taught you, ye shall abide in
him."
It is evident, that the anointin~ here, and
elsewhere spoken of, meana fhlth,' faith -tn his name,
&c.
.
" VesseIa" represent the pel'SODll or mind that be-
heves or disbelieves in the word of God, as in 1 Thess.
iv. 4, "That ev~ one of you should know how to Pos-
scss his vessel In sanctification and honor." Also, ~
Tim. ii. 21, "If any man, therefore, purge himself from
these, he shall be a vessel unto honor."
" Bridegroom" is the' figurative name for Christ; as
the prophet Isaiah says, "And as a bridegroom rejoiceth
over.the bride, so shall thy God rejoice over thee." And
Christ says, "How can the children of the bride-cham-
ber mourn, while the bridegroom is with them?" alluding
to ·bimsel£ 'l'hisproves that Christ meaus billlll8lf, in
,
. ; petBOn, by ~e bridegroom in the parable.
.
I
Di;tized by Google

CBRIS%'a qC:O~DCOMING.
"The door was shut," implies the closing up of the
mediatorial kingdom, and finishing the gospel period.
J shall prove this by Luke xiij. 25-28, "When once
the master of the house is risen up, and bath shut to the
door, and ye begin to stand without, and to knock at the
door, saying, Lord, Lord, open unto us; and he shall
answer and sa,y unto you, I know ye not whenee ye are
'.rhen shall ye begin to say, We have eaten and drunken
in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets
But he shall say, I tell you I know you not whence ye
are; depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity; there
shall be weeping and ~nashing of teeth."
"Marriage" is the time' when Christ shall come the
second time ;without sin unto salvation; gather hill elect
nom the four winds of heaven, where they have been
scattered during the dark and cloudy day; when ho
comes -to be glorified in his saints, and to be admired in
~l them that believe j when the bride hath made herself
ready, and the marriage of the Lamb is come, then he
will p)"esent her to his Father without spot or wrinkle,
and there marry the bride before his Father and the holy
Ilogels ; removes her into the New Jerusalem state, Beats
hor upon the throne of hi8 glory, where she will ever be
with the Lord. When this takes place, the whole body
will be p,resent j the whole church must be there, not a
member missing, not a finger out of joint She will be
perfect in beauty, a.ll over glorious. See Rev. xix. 7--9,
" Let us rejoice and be glad, and give bonor to bim, for
the marriage of the Lamb is ~ome, and his wife hath
made herself ready. And to her was granted tl\at she
should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white, for the
fine linen is the righteousness of ssints. And he said
unto me, Write, Blessed are they which are called to the
marriage supper of the Lamb." Daniel says," Blessed
is he that waiteth and cometh to the 1335 days." John
says, " Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first
resurrection." All these are at one and the same time;
and how can we expect to be free from sorrow, mouJlling,
and tears, until the bridegroom comes and moves us into
the beloved city? Rev. xxi. 2-4, "And I John saw the
holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down from God out

LECTVU XVI.
«heaftll, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
And I heard· a great voice out of heaven, saying, Behold,
the tabenii.cle of God is with men, and he will dwell
with them," &c. . .' -,'
'
"Midnight cry" is the watchmen, fir some of theDJ,
who by the word of God discover the time as revealed,
and immediately give the warning voice, .. Behold, the
bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet hlm." This has
heen .. fulfilled in a most remarkable manner. One or two
on e'Ier1 quarter of the globe have proclaimed the neft,
and agree in the time -
Wolf, of Asia; Irwin, late of
England; Mason, of Scotland ; Davis, of South Carolina;
and ·quite a-namber in this region are, or have been, giv-
ing the cry. And will not you all, my brethren, examine
and see if these things' are so, and trim YOill" lampe, and
be found ready?
.
. ":~
the lamps." You will recollect, in,!
tiiendlt, tlIat the word of God m the lamp. To trim Ii
lamp is to make it give light, more light, and clearer
light. In the first place, to translate the Bible would
make it give light, in all languages into which it should
be transl&ted. Then, to lend to or give every family iii
the known world a Bible would make the Bible give
more light. And thirdly, to send out true servants of God
who have made the Bible theil study, and true teachers;
who would teach the holy precepts and doctrines con-
tained therein, and to employ many Sabbath ilehool
teachers, would in the hands of God be the meaIIII of its'
giving clearer light.
T~ would be trimming the lamp';
and so far as the foolish virgins assisted in ~atiDl'
the Scriptures, in sending them among all natiOili, anll
employing missionaries and teachers to teach tnankiiJel'
its principles, so far would they trim their lamp; bunf'
they had no faith in it, their light would be darkness,
and the lamp to them would /fo ont. If the friend or
the bridegroom should proclaun the approach' of him
whom they all expected, and should prove it ever so
plaiDoby the lamp, out having no faith, the lamp would
go out; they would not be ready to enter in to ~~ mar-.
riage supper. and the door would be shut. This 18 un-.
donbtedlj the m~,which Christ intends to conVeJ
in this parable. I
therefore, show,
.
Digitized by Google

CHRISTS 8KOOKD COIIlI'fG.
II. The time this parable is applicable to.
In the chapter previolls our Savior had answered three
questions which his disciples had put to him on the
mount ofOlive~, when they came to him privately, "say-
ing, Tell us, when shall these things be?" That is,
when Jerusalem should be levelled with the ground.
" And what shall be the sign of thy coming?" That is,
his second coming in the clouds of heaven with power
and great glory, as he had before informed them, which
is yet future. "And of the end of the world," or, as some
translate it, "end of the age," to which I am perfectly
willing to agree; but what age? is the question. )
answer, The gospel age, or the kingdom of heaven. See
14th verse, "This gos?el of the kingdom shall be
preached in all the world for a witlle~s unto all nations ;
and then shall the end come." "The law and the
prophet:! were until John, since which time the king-dom
of heaven is preaclwd." The Jewish economy IS no
where c"tlled the hngdnm of heaven; but this expres-
sion belongs exclusively to the.gospel ; and of course any
age in which the gospel or kingdom of heaven is preached
can never be applied :0 the Jewish age.
Any nov-
ice in Scripture interpretation mllst readily admit this.
These were the questions proposed by the disciples to
their divine Master, and were answered in the following
manner: From the 4th to the 14th verses inclusive of
the 24th chapter of Matthew, Christ informs lIis disciples
of the troubles, trials, persecutions, and distress which
they and his followers should suffer, down to the end of
the gospel age. He also informs them by what means
they must suffer -
by false brethren, by deceit, by wars,
rumors of wars, clashing of nations, earthquake$, afHic-
tions, !leath, hatred, offences, betrayals, fil,lse prophets,
coldness, iniquity, famines, anrl pestilence, and these to
the end of the gospel age. From the 15th to the 22d
inclusive he allude~ to the destruction of Jerusalem, and
particularly gives his followers wamina of what they
shall sutler, and informs them what to do at that time;
he tells them what to pray for, and how to escape from
the siege, al\d how to avoid certain consequences which
must follow this great tribulation.
•

LEOTUU XVI.
From the ~
. to the 28th inclusive, he wartII Ills dis-
oiples against tJle error that false teachers would promul-
gatel that Christ did or would come at the destruction of
Jerusalem. He told them plainly to .. believe it not," fot
his second coming would be 88 visible 88 the lightning;
and then every man would be gathered to his own com-
pany ; 80 there would be no room for deoeit.
In the 29th verse he -prophesies of the rise of anti-
Chnst, the darkness and fall of many into superstition
anJ error, and the persecution of the true church. 30th
and 31st verse, He give;; a sign of his coming, the
mourning of the tribes of the earth, and then speaks of
his cOllling and what he will do. 32, Is the parable of
the fig-tree. aa, He enforcea it by saying, " So likewise
ye, when ye shall see all these things, know. that it is
near, even at the door." 34th and 35th verses, He gives
his disciples a comfortable· promise, which wo.s to this
amount, that his children should aot be all destroyed
from the earth.
Bu~" thid ~enel'ation shall not pass till
all these thingd be fulfilled.
To prove the word gener-
«tion is 110 used, I will refer you to Psalm xxii. 30, II.'\.
seed shall serve him; it shall be accounted to the Lord
for a. gtnuation."
1 Peter ii. V, .. A chosen generation,
a roy81 priesthood, a holy nation." The word ~
tion, in the Scriptures, when used in the singular, I ba-
Iieve almost invariably means the children of one parent;
88 the ~emration of Adam, children of Adam, chosen
generation, children of God, generation - of vipers,
children of the devil. So Christ, mlking to his children,
and instructing them only, oays, "This genoatioft shall
not pass till all these things be fulfilled. Heaven and
earth shall pass away, but my worde shail not pass
away." .His kingdom shall not be destroyed nor given
to another people.
36th verse, He informs bis disciples that the day and
hour of his coming is known only to God, has never been
teve~led, meaning day and hour only, whether at mid-
night, at cock crowing, or in the morning.
Verseil 37-44, incinsive, He informs them that his
coming will be like the deluge; unexpected to the
wicked, as then. He tells them the manner; that he. will
•

separate the righteous from the wicked; one shull be
taken and another left. He then gives them a charge to
watch, and repeats," they knO\v not the hour." Christ
illustrates his warning by the figure of the good man of
the house, and then charges them to be also ready, as
the good man would, if he knew in what watch the thief
would come, showing us plainly that all true believers
will know ncar the time, as Paul eays, " But ye, brethren,
are not in darkness, that that day shall overtake you as
II. thief."
From 45-47, he tell us of the faithful and wise ser-
~ant who watches and gives warning of his coming, and
speaks of the blessing'S that servant shall inherit when
he comes and fillds hIm so doing.
48~5l, Christ gives us the marks of an evil servant: 1st
mark, he will "say in his heart, My Lord delayeth his
coming." He may not preach or speak against Christ's
coming; no, he will only say it to himselt: But he will
not say he will never come; no, he will only think in his
heart, "My Lord delayeth his coming." When he
hears the voice of the faithful servant saying, " Behold,
the bridegroom cometh," he will say nothing in public
against it; no, not so bad as that. N either will he say
any thing in favor of the cry; but mutter in his heart,
"My Lord delayeth his coming." The second mark,
" And shall begin to smite bis fe110w-servants." It docs
not say he will beat and bruise his fellow-servants, or
the faIthful servant who watches and cries; but he shall
begin to smite, &c., meaning he will begin the Pel'secu-
tion, set others on, lind himself he will keep back, in bis
heart deceitful. 3d mark, "And to cat lind drink with
tbe .uunken." To eat and drink with the drunken -
it
does not say he gets drunk; no, it only says he eat; and
drinks with them that are so.
By this I understand he
fellowships with them, and is engall'ed in, and employs
his time, his talents, his mind, to buIld up some popular
and worldly object, which men of the world would be
pleased in promoting, He courts popular applause j he
seeks to please men more than God,
" The Lurd of that
servant will come in a day when he looketh not for him,
alld in an hour he ,ill not aware of.
And shall cut him
0" .. : , . "Coogle

Io.CTVa. :n'1. .
1I81IIlder, and appoint mm his portion with the ~ritea i
there shall be weeping and gnashing ofteetb.'
.
i' .,
" Then shaII the kingdom of heaven be likened unto
teD virgins, which took their lamps and went forth to
meet the bridegroom." I think we cannot be mistakeQ
in the application of this parable. " Thea," that is, at
ilia time wben the wise servants are lookiDg for and.
proclaiming' his coming', andwnen the evil servant say!l
in hie heart, My Lord delayeth his comiDg. Then, too.
when he will come, and they that are ready go in to the·
marriage, and the door is shut. This must mean the
time when Christ comes to judgment, for he cuts off tIut
evil servant, and appoints him his portio~ and shuts the:
door against the foolish virgins; and when they knock, Il.
opens not, but tells them, 1 know you not.
'
. Where, then, is the millennium ~ say 8Ome.
After the
judgment sits, !lnd not before; after the· bridegroom
comes, and, the beloved city is completed; when Christ
shall move his saints home, and live and.reign with them
on the new heavens and new earth, "",herein. dwelletD
righteousness. If there could have been a millennium
before Christ should come 'and jlather his saints into one-
body, it must be a very imperfect one. A part of the
body in heaven, a part in the earth, and the .remainder.
under the earth; separated,· divided, wounded, .and tora
by enemies and dea.t.lt, abeent. from our hew. No, it
cannot be; if in this life only we hllve hope, we are of
all men most misera.ole. . If we arsto have- a., temporal
millennium; why did not our &vior mention it on the
mbuut Elf Olives, as preceding his colJling? lIe did
':ot, neither has any of the apostles r but all 6lpea\t ,01>
troublous times, departure from the faith, iniquity
a.bounding, andtbe· love of· moy waxing cold in til,
latter days. Our parable, to which. we are now attend-
ing, aaYB,at midnight· there wu a cry mwe, Behold, ~
bridegro3m cometh; go ye' out te meet him. . "At. mid ..
night;" this teaches us that' at the time of his coming
there will be much· apathy. and darkness on this subject;
that is the coming of the bridegroom. The pa.rable im-
plies the same. " For while the bridegroom tarried, they,
all slwnbered and.slept." Can we· nQ~.bea.r wi~B8 th.,t

caall"r', '~COllI~G.
this has been the true state of the church for a number
of years past? The writers on the word of God have
adopted in their creeds, that there would be a temporal
millennium before Christ would come. I call it temporal,
becautie they have all of them taught that it would be in
this state of things, not in an immortal state, neither in
a glorified state j and that Christians would ha.ve all
kingdoms under their control j that is, in a temporal
sense j and that they would be married and given in
marriage, until the coming of Christ after this 1000
years, or, as some say, 360,000 years. This has been,
and is yet, the prevailing opinion among our standard
writers and great men. No wonder, Curist says, they
will say in their hearts, My Lof(! delayeth his coming,
and that the wise and foolish are all sleeping: and slum-
bering on this important subject. For while we look
for a temporal kingdom, behold, he cometh and destroys
all that is perishable, all that is temporal, and erects
upon these a new hea.ven and a new earth, which is irn~
mortal, and that fadeth not away, eternal in the heavens.
I shall nolV,
III. Make an application of our su bject.
And,
1st. The time of the fulfilment of this parable it' .
evidently come, in part at least. The world for a num-
ber of years have been trimming their lamps, and the
wise and foolish have been engaged in transia.ting the
word of God into almost every language known unto us
upon the earth. Mr. Judson tells us that it has been
translated into one hundred and fifty languages wlthin
thirty years j that is, three times the number of all the
tranillations known to us before. Then fourfold light
has been shed among the nations, within the short period
of the time above specified j and we are informed that a
part if not all of the word of God is now given to all
nations in their own language. This, surely, is setting
the word of life in a conspicuous situation, that it may
give light to all in the world. ThiS' has not been done
by the exertions of Christians or professors only, but by
the aid of all classes and societies of men.
Rings have
opened their coffers, and favored those engaged in the
work j nobles have used their inJiuence. and have cast

into the trcaaury of the Lord of their abundance; rich
men have bestowed of their riches; and in many cases
the miser hus forgot his parsimony, the poor have re-
plenished the funds of the Lord's house, und the widow
haR cast in her mite. How easy to work the work of
the Lord when the hearts of men are made willing by his
power!
But shall we forget those who have forsaken
the land of their fathers, the home of their nativity, and
have spent londsome years of toil among strangers, yes.
worse than stran~ers. among heathen idolaters, and the
savage of the wilderness, in the cold re.gions of the
north, and under the scorching rays of a vertical sun,
among the suffocating sands of the desert, or in the
pestilential atmosphere of' India; who have risked their
lives to learn a langua.ge, and prepare themselves to
trim a lamp for those who sit in darkness and the shadow
of death? No, we will not forget them; the prayers
of thousands have ascended before the golden altar,
4bJorning and evemng, on their behalf, and Israel's God
has been their protector.
Surely we may hope that
these have oil in their lamps, who have sacrificed so
much to bestow a Ia.mp upon others.
But remember,
my brethren, the Lord he is God, and let him have all
the glory.
This is the time, !lnd the same time that
Gabriel informed Daniel, "many should TlUl to and fro,
and knowledge should increase." This, too, is the same
time when the a.ngel flying through the midst of heaven
had the everlasting gospel to preach to them who dwelt
upon the earth. Here are Christ's words fulfilled, where
he says, "And this gospel of the kingdom shall be
preached in all the world for a witness unto an nations j
and then shall the end come."
2dly. It is plain to any diligent observer of the signs
of the times, that all the societies for moral reform in
our world at the present day are par~ of the fulfilment
of the parable, giving more light. What of our Bible
societies? Are not these trimming the lamp for mil-
lions of human beings? Thirty years past, more than
three fourths of tbe families in what we call Christian
lands were without the lamp of life, and nolV nearly all
supplied. Many of those who sat in heathenish dark·

ne3S then, are now rejoicing in the light of God's book.
And much of this has been performed through the in-
strumentality of Bible societies, and not only through
th') agency of the church, but political men, men of the
world, the great men, merchants of the earth and those
who trade in ships, all who live under the influence of
the gospel, the "kingdom of heaven," have engaged in
the work.
Will not the most skeptical acknowJildge,
that this society has succeeded beyond the most san~uine
expectation of its most ardent advocates? And IS not
this strong circumstantial evidence that the Bridegroom
is near, even at the door?
3d. The missionary societies of all sects and denom-
inations, which have been established within forty years,
have as far exceeded all former exertions of this kind as
the overflowing Nile does the waters of the brook Kid- .
ron. See the missionary spirit extending from east to
west, (lnd from north to south, warming the breast of the
philanthropist, giving life and vigor to the cold-hearted
moralist, and animating and enlivening the social cir-
cle of the pious devotee. Every nation, from India to
Oregon, from Kamtschatka to New Zealand, have been
visited by these wise servants (as we hope) of the cross,
proclaiming" tbe acceptable year of the Lord, and the
tiay of vengeance of our God," carrying the lamp, the
word of God in their hands, and oil, faith in God, in
their hearts. All classes of men are engaged in this
cause, from the gray hairs of old age down to the
sprightly youth of ten years. Who, then, can doubt but
that the virgins in this scnse have and are trimmin~
their lamps, and the bride is making herself ready.
" Go ye out to meet him."
4th. The Sabbath schools and Bible clnsses are but a
part of the fulfilment of the parable, yet clearly an evi-
dence that the virgins are now trimming their lamps.
'fhis system of teaching the yo!mg and ignorant took its
risc between forty and fitly years since, at the very time
that the Christian world were pra.ying, and ardently
praying, for the coming of Christ, before that part of the
Savior's prayer was forgotten, "Thy kingdom corne."
l<~rom a little fount'lin this strea.m of water has be·
2] ..

~ome a great river, and encompassed the whole land
Every quarter of the globe arf! drinking at this fountain
or stream of knowledge, and the youth arc taught to
trim their lamps. And when the bridegroom shall come,
may we not reasonably hope that the thousands of the
young men and voung women who have as,qisted in
giving light to others, may be found havin~ oil in their
vessels, and their lamps trimmed and burDlng, and they
lookin~ and waiting for the coming of their Master, that
when ne comes they may rise to meet him in the air,
with ten thousand of their pupils, who will sing the new
song in the New Jerusalem forever and ever? Search
diligently, my young friends, and Bee to it that ya be-
lieve in this word," which is able to make you wise
unto salvation."
5. Tract societies are of much use, and are an efficient
means to help trim the lamps; like snuffers that take
away the preventives to the light, so nre tracts. They
take away from the mind the prejudice that thollsands
have against reading the word of God.
They remove
those rooted and groundless opinions which many have
that they cannot understnnd the Bible; they serve to
excite the mind to this kind of reading; they enlighten
the understanding into some scriptural truths; they are
pionecr~, in many instances, to conversion; they can be
seut where the word of God cannot at first be received;
in one word, they are the harbingers of light, the fore-
runners of the Bible. And in this, too, all men in this
probationary state sepm to be more or less engaged,
from the king on the throne down to the poor peasant
in the cottage, writing, printing, folding, transporting,
paying, or readin/!, these silent little messengers of the
virgins' lamp. "Then aH those virgins arose and
trimmed their lamps." Has not God's hand been seen
in all this? Yes, glory be to him who hath disposed
the hearts of men to work the work that God bids them,
and to fulfil the blessed word which he hath given
them.
This institution took its rise about the same
time with the Bible societv.
6. Temperance societies. Theae serve one purpose
in trimming the lamps and preparing the way for tho

CBIlIB'I'SSUOh -001111'(6.
vlrgms to go out and meet the Bridegroom. Our world,
twenty years ago, might be called a world of fashionable
drunkards; almost all men drank of the intoxicating
bowl, and thought it no harm.
But when the lamp began
to dart its rays around ollr tabernacles, it was found by
woful experlcnce that those who drank of the poisonous
cup were totally and wholly unprepared to receive the
warning voice, or hear the midnight cry, " Behold, the
bridegroom cometh." No," they that were drunken,
were drunken in the night," says the apostle. "There-
fore let us watch and be sober." A nd Peter tells us,
" But the end of all things is at hand j be yc therefore
BOber, and watch unto praYElr." How foolish would it
have been lor a drunken man to be set on a watch, or 0.
praying man to be found drunk! Therefore, in order
that men might be in a suitable frame of mind to receive
instruction at the close of this dispensation, and be in a
situation to listen to the midnight cry, God ordered the
virgins, and they arose and trimmed their lamps j and in
all human probability thousands who would have met a
drunkard's grave if this society had not arose, are now
watching, with their lamps trimmed and burning, ready
to meet the Bridegroom at his coming. Perhaps this
temperance SOCIC'ty is the virgins' last resort. The
Judge stands at the door j go ye out to meet him. 'fhis
society, like the others before mentioned, is a general
thing, and all sects, denominations, and clllSses of men
are engaged in it, and it has an important influence
upon all men who are in this probationary stat\l, and
who may be termed, 8S in our text, " virgins." This
society is of later origin than the others, and seems to
be a rear guard to walw up a few stragglers which tile
other societies could not reach.
And now, drunkards,
is your time; Wisdom stands at the do~r and knocks j
let go the intoxicating bowl, be sober, lind hear the
midnight cry, "Behold, the bridegroom cometh." For
your souls' sake drink not another draught, lest he come
and find you drunken," and that day corne upon you
unawares, nnd find you sleeping." 0, be wise, ye in-
temperate men, for they only weLlt in to the marriage
who were found ready, "and the door was shut."

LEOTUU XVL
" Then came also the other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord,
open to us.
But he answered and said, Verily, I say
unto you, I know you not. Watch, therefore, for ye
know neither the day nor the holU' wherein the Son of
Man cometh." "But the wise shall understand," says
D:miel, xii. 10.
And DOW, my Christian friends, let me iflquire, Are
your lamps trimmed and burning? And have you oil
in your vessels? Are you prepared for the coming
Bridegroom? And are you awake to this important sub-
ject? What say you? If this parable, to which I
have directed your minds, has reference to the last day
and the coming of Christ j if the "virgins" has reference
to all men in this probationary state, and dividing them
into two classes, wise and foolish j if the "lamp" is the
word of God, and " oil" means faith in his word, or grace
in the heart, as some say, -
then my conclusions are
just, and the evidence is strong that we live at the end
of the ITospel kingdom, and upon the threshold of the
glorified state of the righteous. Then examine your
Bibles, and if you can as fairly prove any other exposi-
tion of this parable, as I have this, then believe yours,
and time must settle the issue j but if you can find noth-
ing in the Scriptures to controvert plainly my explana-
tion, then believe, and prepare to go out to meet the
Bridegroom j for beh'old he cometh. A wake, ye fathers
and mothers in Zion j you have lon~y looked and prayeu
for this day. Behold the signs! rte is near, even at
the door.
And, ye children of God, lift up your heads
and rejoice, for your redemption dra\veth nigh. For
these things have begun to come to pass.
And ye,
little lambs of the fiock, remember Jesus has promised
to carry you in his arms, and that he will come and
take you to himself, that where be is there ye may be
also. But remember, all of you, the wise had oil III
their lamps, and they were trimmed and burninIT. Search
deep j examine yourselves closely, be not dec;ived j and
may the Spirit whicb searcheth all things, and knoweth
what is in the mind of man, assist you.
But, my impenitent friends, what shalll say to IOU?
Shall I sa.y, as the ma~ter in the parable, " Behol ,the
O;g; "ec Or Coogle

CHaI8T'8 allCOIlD COIOl'fIJ.
bridegroom cometh: go ye out to meet him " ? Prepare
to meet your Judge. Now he has given you a time for
repentance; you have had a probationary season, and
possibly now the sceptre of mercy is held out to you.
Repent, or it will soon be said to you as Jeremiah said
to the virgin, the daughter of Egypt, "In vain shalt
thou use many medicines; for thou shalt not be cured; "
or as in the parable," I know you not." Have you no
oil in your lamps? Delay not a moment; believe the
gospel, and you will live j believe in the word of God;
receive the love of the Bridegroom, and make no delay;
for while they went to buy, the bridegroom came; and
they that were ready went in with him to the marriage,
and the doo,l' waR shut. 0, think what must be the
exercise of your minds when these thinll"s shall be real;
when you will stand without and knOCk, saying, Lord,
Lord, open unto us.
Again I ask, Will you repent, be-
lieve, and be saved? Are you determined to resist the
truth until it is too late? Say, sinner, what think ye?
"We will risk the consequence. We do not beheve
in your day you ten \IS of.
The world is the same it
always was j no change, nor ever will be; but if it
should come, it will not this ten thousand years; not in
our day, certainly. You do not believe yourself. If you
did, we should call you a fool."
Are these your arguments, sinner? Yes. 'Yell, if I
had brought no more, no stronger arguments than these,
I wUltld not blame you for not believing, for not one of
yours can you or have you supported with a particle of
proof. They are mere assertions; your believing or not
believing will not alter the designs of God. The antedi-
luvians believed not. The citizens of the plain laughed
at the folly of Lot. And where are they now? Suffer-
ing the vengeance of eternal fire.
[igilizeJ .JyG og e

LECTURE XVII.
LBVr,ncU8zanm,1L
Aad if ye w,lI not' be reformed by me by these things, bat 'Wit
walk contrary unto DIe, !beD >till I also W8Ik _uary anto yrya,
and will pwusb you yet leyea lime_ .fOr rr- sins.
'
.1
WI! are in the habit of reading the judpent8 anil
threatenings in the word of God, 8S denunciations against
lOme other people but ourselves. Weare· very fond at
throwing back upon the Jews what, upon the principle
of equity and justice, would equally belong to us Gen-
tiles. By this mode of reasoning, wicked, unbelieving
idolaters, murderers, whoremongers adulterers, and all
lillrs, may and do resist the force ofGod's word, and flat-
ter themselves, in their lustful career, that the judgment
is past, and that they may frO ou in sin with impunity.
But it is not only this abommable class of mankind who
pervert the word of God to their own condemnatioll,
bot many of those who profess to be pious, and even
teachers lind expounders of the word, do take the sarne
unholy ground, to limit the Holy One in his justice and
Jud~ent. And by this means they not only wrest the
ScrIptures to their own condemnation, but others, who
follow their pernicious ways, are led into the same er-
rors, and the way of truth is evil spoken of.
This manner of expounding Scripture has been used
as the last resort against my appeals to the heart and
consciences of sinners, to prepare to meet God in judg.
ment. Let me use what passage I please in the Scrip-
tures, whether in tho Old or New Testament, these
Digitized by Google

CDJUST'S 8:KC0ftD COJIII.'f ••
wicked, loltfill.fiatterers of mankind, are ready, with a
host of learned commentaries, to show that it WIUI applied
to the Jews, and to them only; and then taunt me with
this witty saying-" What! you, an unlearned man,
think to teach us, contrary to' our l1"'at awl learned
commentators! " This, mJ friends, 18 the only argu-
ment that has ever been .produced against my warnings,
and proofs of God's near approach to judge the world in
righteouslI8IIII. And here, too, I pledgemyselC to show
that many, and perhaps that, in many cues, a major part,
of these commentators are on my side of the question.
I know that, in the subject now about to be presented,
this argument will be used -" O! that had reference to
the Jews only;" and you will, like the wicked Jews,
put fiu oft" the evil day, until you are caught in the snare,
and perish in the pit. The Jews in the days of the
prophets said, Ezek. xii. '.11, "The vision that he seeth
is for many days to come, and he prophesieth of the
times that am tar olE" You see, in this sample given
118 of the Jews, that the same ungodly, wicked pervert-
ing, putting oft' on to others what belongs to us in the
viiions and threatening'S of God against sin, WIUI mani-
festly the character of the Jews in that day, lUI it is
in ours.
The difference
is only circumstantiaL
They put it oft" a great while to come; we, a great while
back. They cast it forward on to the backs of the Gen-
tiles; we throw it back into the faces of the Jews.
'I'his is the wicked disposition of man 10 his natural
lltate-self-righteous and self-justificatory.. Therefore,
use this weapon if you please; it will only discover to
angels and men your true character, and God's justice
In your condemnation.
"He that covereth his sius
Bhall not prosper; but whoso confesseth and fontaketh
them sh .. li:have mercy," Provo uvtii.l3. Yet we shall
find some th~, at least, true,-that the law of God
.and pUnishment for sin are the same in all ages, and
will be the SRme in all eternity. If the sins of the old
-world brou«ht the flood IUld destruction upon the un-
,trodly, so Will the sins of the present world, if committed
In the same ungodly spirit, bring down similar jlldgmen ....
Digitized by Google

LEenaA XVlL
and destruction upon us. If Sodom and Gomorrah, and
the cities of the plain, were destroyed for their abuse of
the blessings which God had given them, so shall we be
destroyed for our abuse of similar ones. And if the
1 ews, for their pride, lllTogance, self-sufficiency, idolatry,
and departure from the known commands of God's house,
were punished with the sword,_ pestilence, captivity and
persecution; so, most assuredly, will the people of God,
in every age, whether under Jews or Gentiles, suffer the
like or similar judgments. This can be proved abun-
dantly in all parts of the word of God, and in the history
of the church in every age. And did we not pervert
the word of God to support our sectarian principles, and
to gratify our lustful appetites, we might foreBre the
consequence of apostasy from God, his laws and com-
mands; as we can foresee the effects of any or 0.11 the
La wa of nature, with which we are so well acquainted.
When le.avea put forth we know that summer is nigh.
When the wind blows long from the south we know it
will bring rain. Just so true are 0.11 the moral laws of
God.
Sin will bring death, and pride must bring a fall.
The laws of God's house are equolly as permanent as
the law8 of nature; and grace or mercy, call it which
you please, are founded upon the law of caus!) and ef-
fect as strong as the laws of adhesion and repulsion.
Go where you will, -
climb up to heaven, or dig into
the depths of heli, -
you will iind an immovable, fixed,
and an eternall:J.w of cause and effect. Let a man love
his Maker, obey his laws, and he is happy. Let him
love self only, and disobey the laws and commands of
God, and misery is the lot of his inheritance, although
the world was at his command. Here, t.hcn, is the great
secret, that mankind must be reformed, or they can
never be happy; in one word, they must be born of the
Spirit, or they cannot enter the kingdom of God.
The text is a prophecy of God himself, given to Mo-
ses, and by him revealed to the people; and is a part of
those lively orncles which has been continued as bind-
ing upon us, who live under the gospel light, as upon
them who lived in flie days of the typical priesthood.
)igitize( byGoogle

CBRIS'.l"S SECOND COMING.
tt is a prophecy of what would happen to the people of
God as a punishment for conduct therein specified. I
shall, therefore, in explanation of our subject, shoW',
I. For what the people of God are punished i
II. Show how they are punished; and,
III. The time they will be punished.
'
I. First, then, we are to examine the cause of their
punishment. The text tells us that it is because they
" will not be reformed bj me by these things, but will
walk contrary. unto me; that is, unto God.
1st. A perverse will. We should suppose that a man
who has had his will subdued by the love and Spirit of
God, could not be in possession of a will so diametri-
cally opposed to the will of God. Yet history and facts
show us plainly that it is so., David, a man after God's
own heart, did perform, by his own will, that which was
strictly forbidden in the law and comman,ds of God.
Peter, too, after his Lord told him he was every whit
clean, and after he boldly asserted (hat, if all men should
forsake Christ; he would not, immediately nnd willingly,
as it is implied, cursed and swore, nnd said he knew not
the man. I am aWllre that the theory of the present day
is contrary to the idea that the Christian has two wills,
carnal and spiritual; but, upon this theory, I cannot ac-
count for the idea of Christians being punished at all
either on the principle of justice or equity. Therefore l
am constrained to believe that, in the heart of a Chris-
tian, there ore two wills. Sometimes he is in subjection
to the will of God, and enjoys the sweets of reconcilia-
tIon; and again hill own will governs and controls his
acts, and he lIlust feel the chastising rod of his heavenly
Father for his wilful disobedience or neglect of his relI-
gious duty. It cannot be the will of God that his peo-
ple "will not be reformed hy him." Here is another
idea conveyed in our text, which shows that the heart of
a Chri9tian is 'not wholly pure, -" will not be reforlned
by God j" showing the same independent spirit that our
primitive father ,and mother did in the fall, "to be as
gods." We cannot bear the idea of llein~ dependent
on God for our reformation. Let us have me power of
doing it ourselves, and we will not reject it; but to sa,
~
Digitized by Google

LECTV.u: XVIL
e are
11y
rulen
God
har
trin
e
will not subscribe to such humiliating tenns. How can
we tell sinners to refonn if they cannot do it ? " Where
my
t?
ca
refo
ysel
urely
d
ould
unju
con
m
r no
ing
cannot do."
And thus you argue, throwing all the
ame
n G
hen
11 that God has re uired in the
xl, is
t yo
ould
v illi
at h
uld
e
work of refonnatlon for you. An surely
od m s
e
the best workman of the 'two. God says he punishes us,
r "y
'11 no
refo
by
"T' my
's-
n fh
is 0
rime
whi
he cl
h has
n
and will be punished seven times. " And If ye will not
be reformed by me by these things." What does God
ean
thes
ngs"
I ans
,It i
d do
e
ork,
he m
his
pIe s
give
the
;
and when tiley have passpd. through the furnace of at:'
flietion and when seven times has 'passed over them, as
did
N e
adne
,the
111, th
lUre
e
at pr
mon
, lea
at (..
ules
eave
d
earth. But could we be willing to learn this lesson
ithout th's puni 'hmen
"by these thin ITS " that is by
e.wo
f Go
the
ache
'pel,
he m
es
of God, y blessmgs of eaven from above, y' blessmgs
of the earth beneath, by the love of God, by the deith
Chr'
y th
inistr
ang
by
trivi
of
e H
pirit
one
, by
he m
s of
;
If all these things could tl:lleh us that God was the Au-
thor and Finisher of our ftlith, and make us willin'" to
ref
d by , ,-
iud
he
d no " e
mish
us.
t, al
with
eha
men
e
should be "bastards, and not sons."
Therefore the
cause why the Christian must be punished,-to subdue
ir
d, re
ous
s, to
mble
r ha
ty
d 5
I he
Th
must
ffer a
at w
d
mell or devits c~n heap u~on t~em" they must ,fill up the
measure of ChrIst's suffermgs m hIS hody which is the
urch
orde
mak
em
r he
or
•
neBS.
ley n
like go d, b
ven
3 pu
d.
As I have before said, all ilie mercies of God, and bless-
ings 0
aven
d ell.
could
t sa
the eh h

•
CHRIST'S BECOND COMING.
without the curse and punishment denounced in the
word of God. And these, too, must be managed by that
all-powerful Arm, the great Jehovah, who, by his wisdom
and power, by his grace and rod, will make all things
work for the good of his church, and will finally redound
to his glory. And at last it will be said, "These have
come through gr~at tribulation, havirig washed Uleir
lobes and madf> them white in the blood of the Lamb.
IL I am t~show how they are punished.
. 1st. 'Oley-are punished by their own deeds. David
went with broken bones to his grave; and Peter, when
his Lord looked upon him, went out and ·wept bitterly.
Paul had a thorn 1D his flesh lest he should be exalted
above measure.
The Jews courted an alliance with
Babylon, and by that means were Jed into bondage and
captivity many years. They, contrary to God's express
command, afterwards made a league with the Romans,
and by Ulem was their city and sanctuary destroyed,
and their nation scattered to the four winds of heaven.
The church, after the Christian era, courted the popular
favor of the kings of the earth, and immediately suffered
the ten persecutions. She afterwards sought for secular
power for her bishops, and by the same power was
driven into the wilderness, and passed through a thou-
Illnd two hundred Md sixty years of torture, darkness,
and deaUl. The church, recently, has been courting
popularity from the world, raisin~ up a learned ministry,
worshipping at the shrine of ancient and modem philos-
ophy; and already her ranks are broken, her piety on
the wane, her efforts paralyzed, amI infidelity gaining
. ground.
2d. By wicked and designing men. Let us remem-
ber how Balaam taught Balak to cast stumbling-blocks
before the children of Israel. Witness the f8lse proph-
ets in the days of the kings of Israel; also- the wicked
and designing men in the dars of Jeremiah and tho
prophets; and, finally, the diVision and subdivision by
wicked men at the final destruction of Jerusalem. See
lome, also, in the apostles' days ,-" false apostles, de-
ceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apos-
tla of Christ, 2 Cor. xi. 13; some, also, "who snbvert-
Digitized by Google

-
J.ECTOU XnL
ed whole house., teachiD~ things they ought not for
filthy lucre's sake," Titus 1. 11; othel'll, who crept into
houses, leading captive silly women laden with diverB
lusts; some, teacbing the doctrines and comlll8.Ddments
of men, bringing in damnable heresies, and denying the
Lord that bought them. And from that day unto this,
in every age, and in every chun:h, division, wounds, and
. putrefying sores, have been experienced through false,
wicked, and designing professors.
3d. The church bas been punished by the kings aDd
rulers of this world. There was a season, in the d&YII
of David and Solomon, and after her delivel'llnce from
Egyptian bondage under Moses and Joshua, and so aD
. 40wn to the days of Manasseq, when the church, the
people of God, were governed by their own rulers and
laws in a great measure. But since the days of Ma-
nasseh not a momen~ baa she enjoyed of respite, but has
been ~scattered among the kingdoms of the world, ....
Jeremiah the prophet has propJlcsied she would. Jer
ltV. 4, "And I will cause them to be removed into all
kingdoms of the earth, because of Manasseh, the son of
Hezekiah, king of Judah, for that which he did in Jeru-
salem!' Here began the "scattering of the power of
the holy people," and when seven times shall be accom-
plished, then all "thue things" shaH be finished; that
JS, the church will then have passed the ordeal of trial
and chastisement. " Manasseh made Judah and the in-
~bitants of Jerusalem to err, and to do worse than the
heathen." "Wherefore the Lord brought upon them the
captains of the host of the king of Assyria, which took
lfanasseh among the thorns, and bound him with fetterB,
and carried him to Babylon. And when be was in af- .
lIiction, he besought the Lord his God, and humbled,
himself g~atly before the God of his fatherB," 2 C~n~
~ili. g.:....12. We learn in this passage the canse and
effect. The cause of their captivity was their errors
and wicked conduct. The effect was their captivity to
the kings of Babylon, and their humility in their afilic-
tiOD. And although Manasseh was restored to his king.
dom again after his humiliation, yet the children of Ju.
clah and Jerusalem were never free from the Bahylonisa
Digitized by Google

CHRIST S SECOND COlllING.
yoke again whi~e the kingdom of Babylon stood, but had
to pay tbem tribute until the Medes and Persians con
quered Babylon, which was about one hundred and forty
years after tile firb1: captivity in Babylon of Judah and
Jerusalem.
Then the Medes and Persians reigned
over the Jews, and made them pay tribute, and put
a yoke of bondage upon them, until Alexander the
Grecian conquered them, about two Ilundred and two
years afterwards; when. the Grecians became the mas-
ters of Judea, and continued the yoke of bondage, car-
rying away into captivity many of the principal citizens ~
of Jerusalem, and obliging them to pay tribute, and their
young men to serve as soldip.rs in their armies; destroy-
-jng their riches, defiling their sanctuary, and compelling
them to worship their goa"" and sacrifice to their idols.
This government lasted one hundred and s<Jventy-seven_
ye:ns, wilen the Romans made the Grecian general
-Bacchides withdraw his army from Jerusalem, and never
trouble the Je\vs any more, as Maccabees tells us in
his first book, viii. 31, 32-; also, ix. 1,72,73. This was
onP. hundred and fifty-eight years before Christ; the
B:lbyloman., Medes and Persians, and Grecians, having
each in their turn ruled over and led into captivity,
robbed and spoiled the children of Judah and Jerusalem,
and scattered them among all the ~ations of tile earth,
as Moses and all the prophets had foretold; in all, from
the captivity of Manasseh, five hundred and nineteen
years.
No man can read this prophecy, from which our text
is taken, and the other prophets who have spoken of
these things, and understand them literally, and then
read the history of the world, and compare them together
carefully, and let reason decide, and be an infidel. It
_would be impossible. The devil knows this; and, there-
fore, he uses all the art he is master of to prevent those
whom he wishes to destroy from reading the prophecies.
He tells them they are dark and intricate. And if this
arrrument succeeds it is well; he is sure of his prey.
B~t if they reason on the subject, and say, "If God has
revealed himself by the prophets, it mus~ b!'l for o~
good; and if God is wise, as all agree he IS, If there IS
-
Digitized by Google

LECTURE XVII.
a God, then it must be in the best poesible manner fat
man to understand. I will examine and see." He theu
tells them it is presumption to look into futurity. "If
you succeed in' discovering the things to come, it win
only make you miserable." Should this temptation pr&-
vent you from reading and trying to understand, still b~
is sure of his prey. You" will not be reformed by these
thin!lS." But suppose you let reason work, and think,
" If God is speaking by his prophets to us, surely it
would be sin not to hear j for lie has a legal right to our
• ears and attention j and only if our equal speaks to us, on
any good or interesting subject, it is a piece of ill manners
not to listdn. I will read and hear what God says by
the mouth of his servants." Then the devil will teU
you that it is a sealed book, -
not to be understood ~­
til it is fulfilled. But reason will tell YOll, What .God
. has given for our faith and hope cannot be sealed in
this sense j for it would all be lost labor in the prophets
of God, and perfect folly in the Giverjfor the history
itself would reveal it as soon .Ilnd as well as the proph-
ecy could. And, in that case, says reason, fRith and
hope would have no food j for, without prophecy, neit/ler
the one Dor .the other could be exercised j for in what wf
. know, how can it be said we have faith? or, in what is
past, how can it be said we hope fur it? Then, if thel5e
temptations do not prevent you from reading and trying
to understand the prophecies, Satan has one more \veap.-
on, and it is his last resort. " But," says the arch ene-
my, "if you are but prepared for happiness or heaven,
it is no matter whether you understand prophecy or not."
This secures and chaine down the hypocrite and Ph!lri-
see forever j this is turning things upside down at once.
:Por there never were hypocrites or Pharisees but wh.,
vainly imagined that they were, of all men, best pre-
pared for heaven j and so they will neither try their
fai~h, nor examine their hOpe, if they follow this temp-
tauon, until they awake in eternity, forever too ll\-te.
While, on the other hand, there never were real chil-
drpn of God, but what cOBSidered themselves unfit for
heaven, the vilest of the vile j and if they should taka
up ~ith this device of Satan, they must finally end ill
Digitized by Google
.F
,
.... tr
"e"

CHRIST'S BECOlOl COIlllBe.
despair; for they could gain no additional evidence of
their faith or hope, only by a diligent study of God'.
prophetic word.
So that I can bordly say, that rell80n
Its?lf would teac~ us that we ought ~ apply ourselves
diligently and faithfully to try ~ur f&lth by ~very we~~
of God, and examine our hope m every poSSIble way ID
~e1U'\lhing deep into the revealed truths, whetiler prom-
Ill"" 01 prophecies, that the day of vengeance may not
overtaJte _ unawares.
But not only the church under the Jewish dispensa-
tion must pass through her scenes of tribulation, but so,
also, must the church under the gospel; for John saw
Dot only the elect Jews in his visit>n of the glorified
state, but also a great Dumber, which no man could
Dumber, from among &\1 nations and languages under
heaven, "who had come through great tribulation, and
who had washed their robes and made them white in
the blood of the Lamb." And, again, it is Illso evident
that, like the Jews, they must Buifer persecution from
the kings and rulers of the earth, and from spiritual
wickedness in high places. For John "saw the beast,
Ilnd the kings of the ~h, and their armies, gathered
together t;Q make war against him that I18.t on the horse,
and against his army," Rev. xix. 19. And Daniel saw
the same beast" make war with the saints, and prevailed
over them until the. Ancient of days came, and judg-
ment was given to the saints of the Most High; and the
time came that the saints' possessed tile kin~dom. Thus
he said, "The fourth beast is th:! fourth kmgdom upon
earth," Dan. vii. 21-23, meaning tile Roman kingdom.
We must also notice that, like the Jews, they must be
scattered among all the nations of the eartII; for here
ther are to have ao continuing city, for they seek olle
"hlCh is to come, whose Builder and Maker is God,"
lIebrews xi. 10 ; that is, the New Jerusalem, which cometh
down from God out of heaven. The proof I bring you
th:,t the church among the Gentiles were like the Jews,
you will find in the pro:r.hecy of tllC high priest, when
• our Savior was crucifie ,John xi. 52, "And not for tilat
nation only, (that is, the Jews,) but that also he should
gather Lgcl.hcr :11 Oil: th~ ~hildrc'll of G"J that were
Digitized by Google

J.ECTI1Jl.E X V JJ.
-lCattered abroad." Also it is said, Mark xiv. Zl, "smite
the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered." And
when Christ comes to jud~e the saints, at the resurrec-
tion of the just, he sends hiS angels into the uttermost
plll'ts of thl! e:uth, and under the uttermost part of
he:lven, and gathers together his elect, who have been
scattered by the kings and beasts of the earth duri,pg ~
dark and cloudy day of persecution, from his crucilii[lOb
to his second coming.
• •
And if, in view of aU that Christ, the prophets, and
aposUes, have said in relation to this Blfbject, there is
one doubt remaiuing on your mind as to the truth of
these remarks, I beg of you to read but the past history
of the church, and you cannot but acknowledge, tbat,
thus far, it has been literally fulfilled. How soon after
the Romans had crucified the Lord -of glory, did they
attack his cburch; and fur nearly three hundred years
the apostles 8.I'Id eminent servants of Christ suffered aU
the horrors of persecutlon by the anthority of the Roman
emperors and kin"O'S of the earth. They suffered, in all
manner of ways which the prophets had foretold they
would -
by the sword, by wild beasts, by flame, by cap-
tivity, and by spoil. This was almost constanUy until
the days of Constantine, who for a little season put a stop
to these bloody scenes; but it was bat short; for in the
dayd of Julian the Apostate, it was renewed, and con-
tinued until the barbarians of the north overran Italy,
and conquered the Roman empire. Then the church suf-
fered the same trials under her new masters, the ten
kings, until they were converted to the Christian faith,
when she enjoyed another respite of about thirty years
after the downfall of Paganism, and before the rise of
Papacy, between the yeard A. D. 50811.nd 538. But now
aNse the little horn, (Papacy,) which was to make war
again.t the !;laint'!, and prevail over them until the
Ancient of d,lys shourd como, and the judgment should
sit. 'rhi:! little horl' was to rule over the kings of tho
e~rth, a time, times, and a half, or 1260 vear~; all which
has been accomplished to the letter.'
,
III. I shall now sbow what is meant by "seven times,-
m-the-text.
'
Digitized by Google

CHRISo;r',1 S.f;t;()tlP C()lIINU.
1st. "Seven times," in Nebuchadnezzar's dream, was
fulfilled in seven years. Nebuchadnezzar, for his pride
and arrogancy against God, was driven among the beasts
of the field, and was made to eat grass as oxen, Ulltil
seven times passed over him, and until he learned that
the Most High ruled in the kingdoms of men, and gave
it to whomsoever he would. This being a matter of
history, and as an allegory or sample to the people of
God for their pride and arrogancy, in refusing to be re-
formed by God, and claiming the power and will to do
these things themselves,-they, too, like Nebuchad-
nezzar, must be driven among the beasts of the field,
(meaning the kingdoms of the world,) until they learn the
sovereignty of God, and that he ilispenses his favors
to whomsoever he will.
That, being a matter of history,
and a sample only, was fulfilled in seven years j but this,
being a prophecy, will only be fulfilled inseven prophet-
ic times, which will be 7 times 360 years, which will
make 2520 years j for one half of 7 times, that is, 3 times
and a half, is called, in Rev. xii. G, 1ZGO days, (fulfilled in
so llIany years.) See also Rev. xii. 14. xiii. 5. Forty-two
months is the one half of 2520, for twice 1260 is 2520.
Therefore the sum and substancE' of the whole is, that
the people of God would be among the beasts, or kin(Ts
of the earth, seven times, which i8 2520 years, one hair
of which time they would be under literal Babylon,
which means the ruling kings of the earth, viz. 1260
years; and the other half under mystical Babylon, the
mother of harlots, the abomination of the whole earth,
1260 years j making in all 2.'520 years. Therefore
seven times would the people of God be punished for
their sins, to fill up the measure of the sufferings of
Christ, before they would be delivered frOUl all their
enemies, and come into possession of the glorified king- -
dom which was prepared for them from the foundation
of the earth. And Ezekiel alludes to the same "seven
times," Ezek. xxxix. 9, 10, "And they that dwell in the
cities of Israel shall go forth, Jerern. xv. 1--3, and shall
set on fire and burn the weapons, Jer. v. 14, both the
shields and the bucklers, the bows and the arrows, and
the handstaves and the spears, and they shall burn them
•

LECTt'aJ: XVII.
with fire seven years; so that they shall take no wood
out of the field, nor cut down any out of the forests; for
they shall burn the weapons with fire; and they shall
apoil those that spoiled them, and rob those that robbed
them, saith the Lord God." Ezekiel here givf'8 us to
understand that, by means of the people of God being
driven out of their cities, and by the word ef God, they
'Would be enabled to destroy or be destroying their ene-
mies, and to spoil those who had been spoiling them,
and rob those whohad robbed them; and this, too, would
take seven years, or 2520 days; and, Ezekiel being
commanded to reckon each day for a year, iv. 4--6, then
it would be 2520 years.
\
The proper question would now be, " When did those
years begin?" I answer, They must have begun with
the first captivity of. the tribe of Judah, the inhabitants
of Jerusalem, in Babylon; for all the prop'hets agree
in this thing, that Bab.flon would be the kingdom which
would carry the Jews IOto cllptivity. See Jeremiah-xv.
4. " And I will cause them to be removed into all the
kingdoms of the earth, because of Manasseh, the son of
Hezekiah king of JQdall, for that which he did in Je-
rusalem." Also let thnse who witth to read more on
this Rubject, read Jeremiah, chapter 21st to the 29th, in-
clusive; and the prophecy of Ezekiel, from the beginning
of the 1st chapter to the end of the 39th chapter; also
the chapter in which is our text;- and we cannot tOr
a moment doubt but that Babylon is the nation which
'Was to make desolate Judah and Jerusalem.
Then, if Babylon was tbe nation which was to scatter
the people of God, and this, too, in tbe !lays of Manasseh,
I ask, When was this captivity? I answer, In the year
677 before Christ·; see 2 Chron. xxxiii. !>--13; see also
• the Bible chronology of that event; this bein~e first
captivity of Judllh in Babylon. Then take 611 years,
"'hicb were before Christ, from 2520 year .. , which in-
cludes the whole, "seven times," or "seven years,"
prolJhetic, and the remainder will be 1843 after Christ i
ahowing that the people of God will be gathered from
among all nations, and the kingdom and greatness of
the kingdom will' be given to the saints of the Most
-" .
'-
\
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECORD COiliNG.
High; myslic:u Babylon will be destroyed by the
brightness of his comin ... ; and sin, and sutreri.lg for
sin, will be finished to those who look for his comin~.
" Aud this spake he not of himself: but being high priest
that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for that
nation; and not for that nation only, but that also he
should gather together in one the children of God that
were scattered abroad," John xi. 51, 52-
Yes, de'lr hearer, to them that look for his appearin"'.
Chloist will come the second time without sin unto s;J.
vation. " And can it be poasible," says the dear child
of Gpd, "that that day is so near as 18t3? It is too
good news for me to believe. Yet the evidence is very
strong; it seems clear. I really believe I shall watch for
it with a good deal of anxiety. And if it should not
come, I shall, I feel now, be- somewhat disappointed."
~ es, I am satisfied, this is the languag~ of every Chris·
tlan heart.
"But," says another,." it is all visionary. I do not
believe it. And if I had any idea that it would be so,
I could not take another moment's c'omfort of my life.
What, th:! judgment day within seven years?· I cannot
bear the thought? I will drive such thougbts from my
mind. To you, whoever you are, whether professor or
non-professor, who in your heart think such thoughts as
these, I have one word to say. Your standing is des-
perate indeed. I· am bold to tell you, you love not
Jesus. Every moment, then, you delay. coming to God
through Je.ms Christ, may be big with eternal conse-
quences, even as the d"ly of judgmellt, for aught yon or
I can tell. For instance, this may be the last moment
the Holy Spirit will ever strive; it may be the last
moment of reason; it may be the last mOinent of life;
it may be the lailt momeilt of time; and you unprepared!
o God, reform these blinded. 80uls, "who will not be
reformed by thee, nor by these things," or everisiltinil
pUDIBhment will be their doom.
• Tbese Leclures were 6rsl published in 18360
Digitized by Google

LECTURE XVIII.
SOLOMON'S SONG "Ill. 5.
Who is th s that cometh up from the wilderness, leaning upon her
beloved f
THE text is a pDBsl)ge of (livine inspiration, which
strikes the mind of the hearer or reader with more than
ordinary power and force; and is propounded by way
of question, as though in the answer we mil\'ht receive
much instruction and useful knowledge. It IS truly so;
and may the Spirit of God assist us to gather honey from
this beautiful 1I0wer from the wilderness. We find it in
the Soogs of Solomon, which are highly figurative and'
allegorical, and were when composed presented in poems
or songs; but fly reason of the translation they have
come to us in prose.
Some have supposed, that when Solomon composed
this Song, or Songs, they were composed fi,r drama tical
performances, either as preludes, interludes, or epi-
logues. But I am of opinion that it was composed for II.
prophetic song of Christ and his church. But be that as
it may, they certainly do represent, in rich and beautiful
figures, the character and love of Christ fur hi.'! church;
likewise, her character and love towards her divine Mas-
Ler, her connection to him, and her dependence upon
him in this state of trial. That the church has been, and
will be, in a state of tnal as long as she remains imper-
fect, cannot be doubted by any man of common rellee-
tion, perception, or knowledge.
She has enjoyed her /leasons of prosperity; and has
ileen Itrongly tried in scenCll of adversity. In tracing
Digitized by Google

CBlUsn BzcnD COIlll'fIL
lIS
her JUstory ftoom the patriarch Abraham· to the preaeD&
day, we find her variable as the wind, and changeable u
the weather.
.
To-day, she is coming np out of the wildemesa lean-
ing on the arm of her beloved; to-morrow, "like a Y0un«
roe leaping upon the mountains, and skipping upon the
hills."
Now she is seen among the trees pf the woods; next
m a palace of silver inclosed in boaTda of cedar.
There we saw her in the clefts of the rock; here we
behold her in the broad way, in the lJI;reets of the great
eity.
.
'.
Again we find her among the foxes of the desert ;
and anOD we perceive her ieeking him whom her soul:
lovetb.
. She is asleep on her bed by night; and the same
night the watch finds her in the city.
Bebold her Lord, knocking at the door for admittance,
while she is too indolent to arise and let him in. The
next moment she is oPening to her beloved; but he' had
withdrawn himself. At one time the voice of her be-
loved BOunding over the hills, and echoing among the
mountains like the roar of distant thunder, has no impres-
SiOD; next the soft whisper.of love gains all he, atten-
tion.
'
Here bloWll the rough north wind and strong BOuth
wind upon her spices; yet they put forth no fragrancy.
And there the lightest breeze makes her roses bloBBom,
and all the air is perfume.·
See her conntenance to-day black as the tents of ~e-­
dar; and to-morrow comely as the daughters of Jerusa-
lem, and fair· as the purple curtains of Solomon. To-
day she is" a garden barred, a spring shut up. a foun-
tain sealed;" to-morrow "a garden open, a weU of liv-
ing waters, and streams from Lebanon." Now sbe is
wenk as a babe; a single watchman can" smite. ~ound,
and take away her vail;" and then she is eourageou.
and valiant, "terrible as all army with banners."
To-
day she is made to keep another's vineyard; to-morrow
she is realizing a thousand pieces of silver from her own.
She is truly a changeable- beinlr. clll'ried abput by the
~
Digitized by Google

LECTURE XVJU.
tiignte8t circumstances. This is the description of the
church, as given to us in this Song of S6llomon's. I shall
therefore show in explanation of our subject,
I. What has been the general .character of the church
in the wilderness j
,
II. Her character when out of the wilderness; and,
then,
'
HI. Make an application of our subject, by showing'
in what state the church may be considered at the pres-
ent time.
I. The church in the Iyilderness.
It appears by the word of God; that for some wise pur-
pose, God has called his people into the wilderness state,
time and again. 1st. Abraham was called to go out from
the land of his fathers" into a strange land, not knowing
whither he went; and he obeyed' God, sojourning in the
land of promise as in a strange country, dwelling in tab-
ernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs Ivith him of the
Same promise; for he looked for a city which hath foun-
. datidns, whose Builder and Maker ~ God." By this
means, Abraham obtained the name of the Father of all
thelll that believe. We learn by the history of Abra.-
ham, that the first seed of the church was called into the
wilderness 118 a place of promise; where God took 'spe
cial care of them, saying to the kings'and princes of this
world, "Touch not mine anoiDted, and do my prophets no
harm." We see them supported and kept through all
the trials of life j and, in the midst of idolatrous nations,
among whOln they sojourned, not one of them lost their
faith, or became impure in their worship j but God was
with them, preserving them in war, famine, and the heavy
judgments of God upon the nations with whom they so-
Journed.
'l'he next account we have of the church being called
into the wilderness was in the days of Moses, when the
children of Israel were delivered· from Egyptian slavery,
and brought out by the mighty and powerful hand of God
into the wildemess, where she was fed, clothed, and shod
by miracle, and preserved by manna from heaven, and
ftesh from the desert j where the cloud of his presence
Dvershado\Yed them by day, and the pillar of fire by night.
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECOND COIUJ.'{8.
. 2ffi
The angel of the covenant accompanied them through
all the wilderness, "gave them drink as out of thp. great
depths. He brought streams also out of the rock, and
caused waters to run down like rivers." ... He made his
own people to go forth like sheep, and guided them in the
wilderness like a flock. He led them on safely, sp"they
feared not; but the sea overwhelmed their enemies. He
brought them to the border of his sanctuary, even to the
mountain his right hand had purchased. • He cut out the
heathen also before them, divided them an inheritance
by line, and made the children of Israel to dwell in tents ....
Thus sang the sweet psalmist of Israel And what could
God have done more than he did for his people in the
wilderness ?
The next and last proOf we have that God calls his
people into the wilderness, you will find in Rev. xii: 6,
14, .. And the woman fled into the wilderness, where'
ahe hath a place prepared of God, that they should feed
her there a thousand two hundred and threescore days."
.. And to the woman were given two wings of an ea-
gle, that she might fly into the wilderness into he:;Slace,
(take notice, the wilde,rness is here called .. her
e,"l
where she is nourished for a time, and times, an half a'
time, t'iom the rue of the eerpcnt;" that is,awa, t'iom
the power of the Roman beast, or power which 18 hei'&
called the serpent. The prophet Hosea, in his vision of
the wilderness state of the church under the gospel disr
pensation, says, .. Therefore, behold, I will allure her and'
bring her into the wilderness, and speak comforta.bly un~o
her; and I will give her her vineyards from thence, and
the valley of Acl¥Jr for a door of hope, and she shall sing
there as in the dayli of her [outh, as in the day when
she came up out of the Ian of Emt," Hosea. ii. ] 4,
&c. We might quote you more of this prophecy, and
show you how exactly every word has been hterally ful-'
filled in time and manner, as John has told \IS in Reve-
lation; but I have sufficiently proved that God has caUed
his church into the wilderness, for purposes of good to
the churches. I will riow, 2dly, show what object God
had in view, so far as he has revealed his object in tlis"
word, in calling his church into the wilderness. Moses
Digitized by Google

...
-lS, Deut. viii. 16, 17, "Who fed thee in the wilden.-
W'lth 1DIUlDa, which thy fathers knew not, that he migbt
humble thee, aod that he might prove thee, to do thett
good at thy latter end, leat you should say in your heart8,
My power, and the might of mine hand, hath cotten me
this wealtb."
Sorely, my brethren, if we would !Vad this punge
and apply it home, we must aee, unIeu we IlJ8 wil(ully
blind, that if we are in the wilderoeaa at this time, the
object of God 1a loat upon UB. We are DOt .bumble
enough to believe that God is the Author and FiniaIl,r
of our faith, or that salvation is of God. Are we DOt "T"
ing, DOt only in our hearts, bu,t also in doctriDe, wordl,
ana action, that we can do great things; our migbt, OIJI
wisdom, our hands, have gotten us thiS great wealth? ,.
Do we uot see our benevolence trumpeted forth ia
every publication of the preIIeDt day. and our cootriba-
tionS aPread far and. wide? For what? To feed the hua-
gry aaa clothe the oaked? N'?t not literally, but~.
Yes, and do we not see that lDIItead of feeding tile pall-
lic mind with wholesome food, with the sincere mili ~
the word, we have almost surfeited them with our tarts
and apices, until thE' public mind baa become 80 heated,
nothing satisfiea unleaa it haa been highly .picecl witb
lOme agitated question to more in1Iame the public pulse.
More than three quarters of all our contribUtious.aJe IIIQd
to bloat each other up in self-righteouBDes and pride;.or
to pull each other down, with our excited quelltioQII of
right and wrong. The moral code which God g.vp .~
man for his happineaa here and hereafter is demolished.;
and Judge Lynch is the order of the day, u well ill m~
all! 18 in our civil affairs. Where in the word of Gotl
are we commanded to have our gifts for charitable plU'-
poses published, either before or behind us, by a public
gazette or a brazen-mouthed trumpet? Yet at the pres-
ent day, we glory in our pride, and excuse ouNelvElli '"
the manner of .Qoing it; for the end, say w~ justifies tile
means. Why, then, did not our Savior julltify the Phar-
iaees in the same means for the very same object.:....tc
make proselytes?
.
The wilderneaa then, under existing circomatane8llt ill
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECO!'ID COMING.
calculated as the best place to keep the chUTch humble,
teach her her dependence on God, and to give her a
grateful heart. For there she mixes not with the world,
there she is not wholly engaged after the riches, honors,
wisdom, and fushions of thts world.
In the wilderness
she depends more on the manna of God's word for her
daily food j but in the great city, she seeks for the pop-
ular learning" of the world, the vain philosophy of the
ancients, or the wisdom of men. There God feeds her
with sl~iri'tual bread, living water, and sincere milk of
the word j but here she feeds on the old com of the
land j she mixes her wine with strong drink, until it
sparkles in the cup j she pours out her milk as a drink-
offering to her idols, and mingles the doctrine of God's
word with the doctrines of devils. There she learns, by
n rich experience, her dependence on her divine Master j
here she forgets all his mercies, and ascribes all ner
blessings to her idol gods, or worship of her own hands.
There the daily presence of God prevents her wor-
shipping the iJols of the world, or following after the
gnds which are no gods j but here the presence of
worldly objects draws her attention from the one living
and tme God j and she has lords many and gods many.
In the wilderness, the teachers in the church are more
pure j there is nothin~ to tempt their cupidity, or foster
their pride j they feed the flock of God instead of them-
sE'lves j the church is not rich in worldly things to tempt
the wolf or the fox to enter her folds.
But among the
citizens, she must expect, while man is wicked, that the
false and designing teachers will rush into her ministry,
to sub~erve their own interest, and draw off followers
after them. In the wilderness, the church has but few
temptations for the honors and emoluments of the politi-
cal world, for she is nourished away from the face of
this wily serpent, which has coiled his folds around the
heart of many a professor of Jesus Christ, and destroyed
all that piety of heart and life, which, separate from po-
litical strife, they once enjoyed.
Moses, sreaking of the chnrch in the wilderness, sayB,
Deut. xxxii. 9-1'!, "For the L~Td's portion is his peo-
ple j Jacob i~ the lot of hi,; iu!ieritance. lIe found him
23'

........
LECTURE XVIlL
m a desert land, and in the waste, howling wilderness
lIe led him about, he instructed him, he kept him as the
apple of his eye.
As an eagle stirreth up her nest, tlut-
tereth over her youn~, spreadeth abroad. her wings,
taketh them, beareth mem on her wings, so tllC Lord
alone did lead him, and there was no strange god with
him." J f the above is a true description of God's care
Ilnd protection of his people in the wildeme2s, sureTy
this must be a desirable state for the church.
Isaiah, in his vision of the church in the wilderness,
says, (xxxv. 1, 2,) "The wilderness and L'le solitary place
shall be glad for them, and ilie desert shall rejoice and
blossom as the rose. It shall blossom abundantly, and
rejoice even wiili joy and singing; ilie glory of Leba-
non shall be given unto it, the excellency of Carmel and
Sharon; iliey shall see ilie glory of ilie Lord, and ilie
excellency of our God." Ifilie church had been in the
city, instead of beholding ilie glory of God, her eyes
might have been dazzled with the glory of the world,
and excellency of her great men, or wiili ilie gods of the
men of ilie world j so iliat, while· in this state of trial
and temptation, while imperfection is found in the
church, ilie wilderness is a place of greater security
from inbred lust and outward foes.
Perhaps we have been in the habit of fixing in our
minds quite Ii different idea of the wilderness state of
tile church, from what ideas I have given, or from what
might be proved hy the writings of the prophets and
apostles. Examine for yourselves, and sce.
II. We are to learn the charactllr ofthe chQrch wlu:m
it may be said she is out of ilie wilderness.
1st. 'Vhat does the church enjoy when she is out of
the wilderness?
I answer, She enjoys possessions,
privileges, and l[ws among ilie kingdoms and political
nations of tile earth j kings are her nursing failiers, and
queens her nursing mothers. "They shall bow down to
thee, with ilieir face to ilie earth, and lick up the dust of
tllY feet," says Isaiah, xlix. 23.
That is, the church,
when in this situation, receives the courtly smiles of
ilie great, and the sycophantic cringing of ilie political
demagogue.
But let ilie .church remember, although
O;g; "ec Or Coogle

CaallTI IECOlm OOlUlfG.
kings, queeDl, awl ~
men of the world may bow
down, court, and idolize her, and may descend to lick the
dust from her feet, yet it is only to 1iatter and to betray;
for their "Iacu" are not Zion-ward, but to the "e4rlA."
Their motives are earthly, devilish. It is a I18rpent still;
they feed on the food of serpents, the dust of your feet.
"They eat the sins of my people as they eat bread."
Some suppose it will be a goedly time, when kiDgII and
queeDi will be Cathers and mothers in Zion. But no,
my brethren; the true church have 1mt one father, which
is God; and but one mother, which is not of this world, ,
but' she is the New Jerusalem, the mother of us aD,
which cometh down from above. Christ himleJf laya,
"The prince of this world cometh, and hath no~ in
me ;" as much as if hf;l had said, By and by the kingw
and princes of this world will come and court you; they
will pretend to great friendship for,you; they will oWer
to nurse, feed, and clothe you; but remember they have
nothing in me.
YOll must, if you wish to win the crown
of glory, " contend against principalitiea, agaiDlt powell,
against the rulel'!' of the darkneu of this worl«4 agaiDlt
spiritnal wickedneu in high places; for he hathuothing
in me." Again, Daniel says, Ii. 43, "They (the people
of God) shall mingle themselves Wlth the seed of men,
(kings and queens, for fathers and mothera,) but they shall
not cleave one to another, even as iron is not mixed with
clay." Let this suffice to show that it is the duty of the
church of Christ to lteep themselves unspotted r~ the
world; to be separate, and touch not the unclean thing.
What is the unclean thing? I answer, It is the policy
of worldly governments; in one word, it is a political
spirit; that spirit which is not peaceable, J.lure, easy to
be entreated. Who, I ask, ever saw a politlcal partisan
have these fruits while prompted by that sgirit? "First
pure, then peaceable, easy to be entreated.
A'political
man, if he had any conscience, would blush with shame
to claim these appellations. And where, in all the his-
tory of the church, from the day8 of the apostles until
now, have kings, queen3, or rulers of this world under-
taken to nurse the church, and lord it over God'. heri-
tage. bnt that they have proved, in the end, a curse in-
Digitized by Google

,
LECTURE XVIII.
stead of a blessing? I am bold to say, Nowhere! And
one thing more I am bold to say -
That kind of morality
which requires the aid of the political world to enforce
it, is a harlot in dia;,(uise, and her path is the way to
death j in hel' secret ch:llnbera you will find war, rapine,
and murder, and in her train MIl be seen revenge, ha-
tred, envy, and division. These are the temptations of
the church when in the city of tile nations.
2dly. What has been her character when in the
city? Answer: When the J eIVs left the wilderness, and
entereJ into Canaan, their manntl, with which they had
been fed while travelling in the wilderness, ceased, and
they fed on the olQ corn of the land. This manna was
a type of the spiritual food given by God to his children,
while under his immediate control and care. See Rev.
ii. 17.
Old corn is a fit resemblance of the worldly
rights, privileges, and pos.essions among the nations of
the earth.
The Jews, almost immediately after they
took possession of the land of Canaan, began to mix
themselves with the inhabitants around them, and be-
came men please~,. and a nation of idolaters j and the
very things which Moses charged them against, became
the common occurrences of the day j and on account
of which God suffered their enemies to bring them into
bondage, and, from a powerful people, that had made
kings tremble even upon the repOlt of them while in the
wilderness, now became a weak and degraded people, a
tributary nation, a band of slaves to their enemies j and
the prophecy of Moses, Deuterollomy xxxii. 15-20, was
literdllyaccomplished in about twenty years after they
took possession of their goodly land. "But J eshuruu
waxed fat and kicked: thou art W8..'{en fat, thou art
growu thick, thou art covered with fatness j then he
forsook God which made him, and lightly esteemed the
Rock of his salvation. They provoked him to jealousy
with strange gods j with abomiuations provoked they him
to !luger. They sacrificed unto devils, not to God; to
gods whom they knew not, to new gods that came newly
up, whom your fathers (while in the wilderness) feared
not. Of the Rock that begat thee thou art unmindful,
lI.nd hast forgotten God that funned thee." The word

CRlUsT'8 81:COIIID COIWIO.
m
tells us, J~
\i. 11, 1~ "The chilflren of Israel dMJ
evil in the 81ght of the Lord, and served HaaUm; and
forsook the Lord God of their fathers, which brought
them OIlt of the land pf Egypt, and followed other gods,
of the gods of the people that were round about them.
and bowed themselves unto them, and· provoked the
Lord to anger." ,They dwelt .a.mong the ,Ca.nap.nites.
and, as it is SlUd, Judges ill. 6, "they took thei.r daugh-
ters to be their wives, and ~vetheii daughten to their
sons, awl served their gods.
_
This waatbe cAa.ractllr aAcl J)r&Otice Gf tae ,lews, Qod'.
ancient covenant ~ople. They ate, they drank, and
1'OIIe lIP to pl~. The,1 were pl'Ollcl, *ellious, en4 un-
godly., TIley Qb~Yl!d DOt .~e eommanda. of Qed, ,and
• fuleded not the lVIlrDl~voJ.C8 of the~..,
• Thoy
ed not the WIl.·
. of the ~ P.-' '"*
=ed in the ~
Qf
,papu4i.rPlOPl\e\S rI Uaal.
Tlmy p8Dilecuted and drove into tile wildern8l1/l the
VuCl servan. ts. of Jehovah, while theb!.i!:. elQtbed, _
schooled, hundlecls of the servants of
'. They be.-
came a stiff-necked and partl-he/utlld people to their own
G~ and bowed their necks, a~d were subservient, W
the nations and their gods around them. They forsook
or demoli&bed the altars erected for the worsbip of the
b'lle God, and eroeted under every green vee altazs to
BaaJ.im awl AsbtarotJL Tiley ~ed rich in corn, wine,
and oil, yet were poor and scanty in ~
first fruits to
God. They multiplied in ,cattle, silver, and gold, and for-
got that it was God who ga.v/I them power to get wealth.
This, we ,J1WII1; acknowledge, is the chamcter of the.
Jews, as given unto us by the S&Cred historians. These
were the peopI. e ~hom God had chosen out of all the na-
tions of the earth, to be his peculiar Jl89Ple -
a people
who had leen and eJtperienced the salvation~ God in a
most lDiraculol,lll manuer; from Egyptian' bondage, tiom
drought and famine in the wilderness, IUld from tbepow-
er of the nations who sought to impecle their ~gress, or
hinder, their possessing the prollullOd land. They h4d
enjoyed the visible presence of the angel of tIle covenant
forlY yC8lll in the wilderness. The,. had heard dle _lii-
ble voice of J.ehovah4Ul the ~OuntaiD; they saw his pow.
Digitized by Google

LBCTlJU XVIII •
... and aiory on Sinai. Yet the next generation eftel
Joshua, liad become 80 deeply corrupted, by unbelief, in
gratitude, and rebellion, that they gave all the glory to
works of their own hands, and worshipped idols of stocks
and stones.
ThiB, yon 8ay, is a dark picture of man, and could not
have applied to any other people but the Jews. I will
agree that no other nation were, at that time, placed in
like circumstances with them. But dark as the picture,
and ludeous as the detail, it is but a shadow of our day,
a type of the Christian church in the times in which we
live.
" Who is this coming np tiorn the wilderness, leaning
upon her beloved?" The text does not tell us she is out
oftha wilderness, but coming out; as though in the wil-
•
derness, and while she is corning out, she lea1l8 upon her
lord. Her affeetiODl were not yet contaminated by a
love for the world, nor her faith weakened by her vanity
and selt:.esteem. Thus was it with the Jews; and so bas
it been with the church in ages past. Then let me,
.
IlL Make an application of our snbject, by showing
what may be considered the present state of the gospel
church.
J believe all writers and commentators on the Apoca-
lypse agree that the church of Christ has been in the
wilderness more tban twelve· centuries past. Some have
fixed the time of the church entering into her wilderness
state as early as A. D. 534, when the great controversy
between the orthodox and Arians, which, in the days of
Justinian, shook the religious world into two great divis-
ions, like the two " wings of an eagle," from the convul-·
8ions of which many of the true servants of God, or all'
of them, disgusted with the spirit shown by both of the
contending .parties, who both claimed and used the civil
authority- to exterminate or conquer their heterodox
brethren, fled into the north-east part of Europe, away
.. from the race of the serpent," -
the emperors of the east,
and the more powerful bishops of Rome- where for
numbers of centuries they lived unknowing and unknown.
Other writers say that it was as late as A. D. 606, when
the Pope, by the conceBlions of Phocas, obtained civil
Digitized by Google

cnRIST's SECOND COMIl'fG.
and ecclesiastical power, and that he came out publicly
wearing two swords. Between these two points 1 be-
lieve all writers fix the time at the church entering into
ber wildeme3S state, " a place prepared of God, that they
should feed her there 1260 days;" or, "to the woman
were given two wings of a great eagle, that she might.
1Iy into the wilderness, into her place, where she is noor.
ished for II. time, and times, Ilnd half a time, from the
face of the serpent," Rev. xii. 6th and 14th verses,
1260 day_s being the same IlS time, times and a ~f
~
three years and a balf, or 1260 prophetic days -
which,
according to my former proof, must mean 1260 years.
The question now remains to be sElttled, Where and
wh::m tIllS wilderness state began, in artier for us to
understand the present state of the church.
.
And first, let u; inqnire, What are the Scripture marks
of the beginning of this period? I anSlver, in the Apuca.-
Iypse, xi. 2, "Bllt the court which is without the temple
leave oQt, and measure it not, for it i.~ given unto the
Gentiles; and the holy city shall they tread under fuot
fill1.y-two months." This is the same time, three years
and a half, or 12fiO days, as before. Again, Rev. xiii. 4,
5, "And they worshipped the dragon, which gave power
unto the beast; ond they worshipped the beast, Sllying,
Who is li!(e unto the beast? Who is able to malie war
with him? And there wai j!'iven him n mouth spetLking
great things and blasphemies; and power was given
him to continue forty and two months"-the very same
time mentioned again. And we learn, by this passage,
that this beMI, wnich would persecute and drive into
the wilderness the church, would receive his power from
the dragon, -
the same as in Rev. xii. 4, "stood before
tile Ivoman, which was ready to be delivered, for to
devour her child as Boon as it was born," -
and must, of
necessity, be the Roman power. See Rev. xvii. 12, 13-
'And the ten horns which thaI] Rawest are ten. kings,
which bave received no kingdOm as yet; but receive
power, as kings, one hour with the beast. These have
one mind, and shall give their polVer and strength unto
tbe beast." This text plainly proves that the kings.of
the· Roman pOlVer gave th::ir power and authority to
Digitized by Google

LEe,.".'! xvln.
litis bf!ut, which was to drive into the wilderness {be
elmrch, "and tread· her under foot forty and two
months."
We must· look, then, for IIOme law, passed by ,some
Roman emperor, and sanctioned by the ten kings, (for
they, too, had the same mind to give" their power and
strength unto the bellSt," meaning, as I understand it,
Rome Papal,) in order to find the commencement of the
church in tlte wilderness.
We find that· Justinian, emperor of Constantinople~
formed a code of Il1ws about A. D. 534, which were
published and sanctioned, in the Westt'l'n Empire at
Rome, about four years afterwards; on which code of
laws; the Pope has claimpd his authority to TIlle over
kings, and punish heretics with confiscation of their
goods, imprisonment or torture of body, and even death ;
which laws continued in force until 1260 years afterwards,
in ~e year 1798, when the French people, underGeneral
Bonaparte, abolished the lawB, and constituted Italy Ii
republic.
-,
Then, in the year 1798, the church bl'gan io come up
out of the wilderness. " What," says the objector, " haa
Bonaparte or the .wars of France to do with the ch\\rch
eoming Ollt of the wilderness?" I answer, Much; for
the same power that gave the anti-Christian beast his
authority, must take it away. The political river Jor~
dan mUlt be parted asunder; the la'v of outlawry
against the church must be abolished, before she could
enjoy rights aud privileges in the great city of nations.
In this war, under the inodern dragon, the emperor of
the French, the harriers were broken down. And noW',
the church is permitted to exist in almost aU kingdoms
in the known world.
This is" coming up out of the wilderness," . for she is
now pE'rmitted to publish the gospel of her beloved
among all nations. She can now ttanslate his word into
every language, and send his servants into every quarter
of the globe. By this werp the armies of Christ to con-
'1ii'er his enemies by the "sharp sword which pfOceedeth
01lt of his mouth." And as the JewB overran and con-
IIuered a large share of the promised land, after they
Digitized by Google

CKJIIBT'S noon COMIIfG.
re&me eut of the wilderness, even. so, in these. dars. the
:church is extending her banners. over.8 l8rtJCst.are of
the ellrth, the promised laoo of the Christian. See
'Psalm xxxvii. 22, 28, 29,.and 34. Provo ii. 21, 22. x. 30.
·Matt. v. 5. For theapostle·Paul tells us, 1 Cor. x. 11,
" Now aU these things happened unto them for examples,
(or types,) and they are written for our admonition,upon
whom the end of the world is come." It is very evident
that the apostle, in this passage, is speakinK of the travel
of the children of Israel through the Wilderness, and
.their entrance into the promised land, or their coming
out of the wilderness, as a type IiIr reRemblance of the
Christian church in these last days.
Thererore, we are allowed by the inspired apostles to
use their journey and acts, to illustrate and show the
present st:l.te of the caurch, if we can gain any instruc-
tion thereby.
T4e Jews had a promise that they should inherit the
land of Cannan; the Christian, th/Lt he shall inherit the
earth -" For the meek shan inherit the earth;" and
"The kingdom, and greatness of the kingdom .under the
whole heaven, shaU be .~iven to the people of the saints
of the Most High." Tne Jews used carnal weapons in
their wars' with the inhabitants; the church are com-
manded to use spiritual ones, to the pul1ing~own of the
strong-holds, &c. 'l'hey were led by thell temporal
Joshua; the church, by her spiritual leader. .The Jews
conquered by sending out their chosen and expert -men
with the sword; the church has sent forth her cho~en
missionaries, expert men with the sword of the Spirit,
which is the "word of God."
The Jews had great success in conquering their
eneniies when they first came out of the wilderness;
even so the church has had her nnexpected success in
her missionary efforts. The Jews, within twenty yenrs,
became a proud, h.~nghty, and an idolatrous people, ascrib-
in!; all their success to their own power; and mingling
themselves with the nations around th~ thet bl'gan to
bow down to their gnds, nnd worship Baalim, and Ash-
taroth; jUlt so, and in about the same time, since the
cause of missions began to succeed. hu the church
Digitized by Google

•
LECTUU XVIII.
become proud and haughty, publishing her donatiOlJll
upon the house-top, mixing her moral questions with
the .political partizans of the day, and courting the
applause of men more. than obeying the voice of
God: she is preparing for a sudden overthrow, a signal
defeat.
The church is evidently worshipping her god Baalim;
her teachers are seeking to be called by great names,
such as A. B., A. M., B. D., D. D., or Rev., &c; to
lord it over each other, and to be caned master. See the
meaning of the word Baalim, ido18, fItIJ8IUI1, ju.lft godB.
It is equally as evident, that she is bowing herself to the
god Ashtaroth, jWck8, the I1Mep, riahu.
Where, in the history of the church, can we find a
time that the people called Christians were, appa-
rently, engaged after the riches of this world as now?
Then, the agreement, in almost every thing, between the
Jews, when they came out of the wilderness, and the
church at the present. day, holds good, and proves clear-
ly to me that the church is now out of the wilderness.
If it is not 80, When, J ask, since the apostles' days, has
the church been nut of the wjlderriess ~ Instead, then,
of being in the wHdemess only 1260 years, she evidently
has been 1800 years in the wilderness; and ·this
prophecy h8.8 failed, or has no meaning.
What IlJ'Illlter privileges did the church ever enJoy
than now? Were their privileges among the nations of
the eart.h greater, even in the days of the Roman em-
perors, under the nursing care of Constantine and his
sons? I answer, No. Then, surely, the church is now
cut of the wilderness, and has been nearly or quite forty
years. If so, then the 1260 years of the reign of anti-
Christ to give the court of the Gentiles to be trodden
under fi)ot have ended.
Th8n, the two witnesses, prop,besying, clothed in
p.8.Ckcloth, ]260 years have ended. Then, also, has the
civil power of ths! anti-Christian beast, to rule over the .
Idnga of the earth forty-two months, been taken frOln
the beast.
Then, also, has the "time, times and a half," men-
tioned in Daniel vii. 25, and xii. 7, had its fulfilment,
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECOND COiliNG.
"to the end of these wenders." And now, the anti-
Christian beast will no longer be able to deceive the
nations with her false miracles, or make the kings of· •
the earth acknowledge her power as supreme. l'hey
have eaten her flub; they have made her drink her
own blood; her great men have departed from her; they
are casting dust on their heads, crying, "Alas! alas! that
~at city Babylon, that mighty city! for in one )lour is thy
Judgment come." "And when she shall have accom-
plished to scatter the power of 'the holy people, all these
things shall be finished," Dan. xii. 7. This beast has but
one more IvOrk to ~rform -" to scatter the power of the
holy people; to divlde, that she may conquer. It is the last
gasp of the expiring monster; it is the dying struggle of
the man of sin. And, for a little moment, they will succeed.
For the church must be humbled; she has departed
from her Lord, she has grown proud of her worldly
connections, she bas become haughty, and lonlinlr it
over the heritage of the Lord. She must be diviiIed.
She is already. She must be scattered, shaken like
grain in the winnowing-fan, that that which cannot be
shaken may remain. She will be delivered when her
Lord returns to the wedding, and sends forth his angell
to gather his elect from the four winds of heaven, where
they ha~e been scattered in the d!,-rk and clo~dy day~
Then will he destroy the man of lui by the bnghtness
of his coming. Then, too, will the little hom cease
making war with the saints, and no longer prevail
against them.
The Ancient of days will come, and
judgment will be given to the saints of the Most High;
and the time will have come when the saints, in nnion
with their spiritual J 08hus, will enter into that etemal
Sabbath of rest which remains for the people of God.
Nothing can be more clear, or self-evident, than that
the church is combating the great natqral and moral
nils, which men in this state of sin are prone to commit.
What shall we make of all these socletics which the
church have instituted since she came out of the wilder-
'lCSS, but so many attacks upon the enemies of the land P
PM Biblt may, instituted since 1798
Thts has
proved a powerful weapon to expel the mora! darkness
Digitized by Google

,
L&t:TVU XVUL
from the'mind of the ulieDligbtened, to open the prison .
of the votaries of superstition, and to knock off the'
.sbackles of bigotry. We have seen, in our day, Deism
humbled from a haughty tyrant to a cringing sycophant.
We have seen Romanism, from a monarch ruling over'
the BOuls and bodies of Dlen with an absolute sway, be-
come a slave, a follower in the wake of Protestants,
in publiahipg and circulating the Scriptures. The De-
ists, a few years since,.had the control of nine tenths of
all Europe; now, not eo petty kingdom under their con-'
trol: the Roman church,.for centuries past the mistress
of most of, the kin~ of Europe, now a poor dependant
on the breath of kings.'
Our rrri8aVmur!J IIOCit4ita have carried the banners of
tlie ClO88 where hope never' smiled before, nor faith
ever lighted the cheerless, sky of the heatlien's land.
~nd' we have seen natioDB_ hearing the word of~, and
ISlands' converted'to thee taith of the gospel of Christ.
T~
lIOCidiu. We have seen the attack upon
intemper&.nee, th~ Anakim of our world; and we have
heard the shout of triumph frOm every quarter of the
globe. Rapid, indeed, was the march to victory! Again,
our mora.l reform societiea, our Sabbath schools, Bible
clO8jles, &c. &c., are all 80 many attacks on moral evil,
which have produced, in many cases, wondertUl effects ;
so much so, that it has astonished even the projectors
themselve&
These aggravated sins are falling before the all-con-
quering-weapon of God's word, like the walls .. of Jericho
before the blasts'of the trum~br; and it will go on con-
quering and to conquer, until tyranny, oppreasion, and
slavery, in every fonn, shall be aestroyeru Perhaps na-
thing, at the present time, impedes the p~
of these
thing&' 80 much as·the popular spirit, the pnde,aJid arm-
~e
of thechJll'Ch he!llelf. She is, more or less; court-·
, lDg the aP{llause of the world. She is mingling. her holy
religion With the opinions andprinciplcs Of men. She
is proud and self-sufficient, doting upon her own works,
and forgetting her dependence on GOIL If thill. should,
be the true state of the church, God may suffer tyrant!!
to-remain Ua sooarge to the church, " .. , •. rod,fbi, the.
fool's back."
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S BECOND COMING.
28)
This was literally the case with the Jewish church.
after she came out of the wilderness; and every Rppear-
ance seems to betoken the like spirit in the church at
the present day.
0 that we could be wise, and learn,
by the example set us by the Jews, that pride and self-
sufficiency are always before a fall!
J know the objector will say, How can it be true, that
the church is spreadinlf her banners over a large portion
of the world, sending ner missionaries and the Bible in-
to every nook and comer of the habitable globe, filon-
quering and to conquer; and, at the same time, growing
lI.l0re and more impure herself, becomin~ haughty~ self-
n~hteous, and un~teful, corrupt and lUkewarm ill'her
fruth and practice, Idolatrous in her worship, and cold and
indifferent to her first love? This, say they, is para-
doxical.
I answer, Paradoxical as it may seem, it is no less
tnle. Have I not shown that the Jews were thus pars-
doxical, when they entered the promised land?
Do
not the description Solomon hath given us of the church
in his Son~, the Epistles of Paul to the Corinthians
and Galatians, and the history of the church in the
days of -Constmtine, all go to show, that when the
church has been most prospered in her worldly standing
with the nations, with whom she may come ill contact,
shl! has the more deeply corrupted herself?
This does not argue that she ought not to spread her
banners, send her missionaries, translate and circulate
Bibles, educate the rising generatIon, establish her moral
eocieties, and do all, and every work, which God in his
word has commanded; but it argues that the church iii
imperfect, and that, in times of prosperity, she ought to
consider,
1st. Her proneness to idolatry, her liability to self-
righteousness, her excessive love for the world, the
temptations on every hand.
2dly. She oUl!'ht to consider that adversity is Bet over
against prospenty, that her faith may be tried, her
motives siftr.d, the body purified, aud the ~ctllary
_cleansed.
3,1. f"',. ollght to cnl\~ider that the desiJ!B of God
24-
Digitized by Google

'.
-ISS
will be accomplished; that the 'Work must be executed,
that aU power centres in him; and, although the church
may be proud, self-righteous, and deeply corrupted by
unbelief and sin, yet God will eventually be glorified,
Ins kingdom established, h18 will done in earth 88 in
heaven; arid the time is at hand, when the saints will
JI08BeBII the kingdom forever, even forever and ever •
.a-..
Digitized by Google
• •

•
LEOTURE XIX
MATT. nI. 3.
But ..
ye _
diNera &lie ..... oL &lie ttm.,
Ova text is a guestion pIOpoaed by Christ to the Phar-
isees, and SaddQcees, at a time when they (".&me to him,
tempting him for a sign tiom heaven; and is a reproof
upon them for their unbelief in the sip already given
by the Old Testament writers, which they professed to
believe, and which were actually ful1illing before their
eyes, yet disregarded. The Pharisees and Sadducees
were two of the most learned and popular secta among
the Jews; many of them were scribes, lawyers, doctors,
and teachers of the law; yet so perfectly blinded, that
theT could not or would not apply the most simple rules
of mterpretation to the law or prophets. They would
apply the ~es of coDunon obsel'fttion and common
sense to tile weather, but neither the one nor the other
were used in understanding the Scriptures. They were
well vened in the skill to tell the weather fOr thO' mor-
row, but had no skill in the promises, propheeiee, and
word of God. " When it is evening, Te say it _will be
fair _t.ber, for the sky is red; and m the moming, 'it
will be foul weather to-c!ay, for the sky is red and low-
ering: 0 ye hypocrites! ye ean discern the filee of the
Ky, buI can ye not ~Y the same simple rule) ditJtJem the
lip of tke timu'
.
All the signs given in the word of God, concerning
the first comi~ and person of the Messiah, were fulfil~
ling befo~ tIleu eyes; yet they were demandiog more
Digitized by Google
•

LECTl1U lUlt.
aDd greater SIgns from heaven. Christ had, and wu
then performing miracles which no man on earth could
perform, and they aacribed it to th~wer of Beelzebub.
No evidence had. or could be p~ented, which they
were not rewy to evwe or deny; and yet they claimed
all the lcaming, all the ~isdom, and aU the piety of that
day. This was the character of those .whom Christ calls
hypocrites, and to whom he addresses the question, " But
can ye not discern the signs of the times?" And happy
would it have been for us, who live in this day of gospel
light, "hen the gospel shines with greater elfulgence
•
than at any other period of time since the world began,
if hypocrisy had died with the Pharisees and Swducees ;
but it was not so. Any man, of common capacity of
mind, who can divest himself of prejudice, or who will
try to see the character of man as developed at the pres-
ent day in matters of faith, will discover the same unbe-
lief, the same disregard, the same taunting, tempting
spirit, conoerning the second c~
of the Me88iah, as
the Pharisees and Sadducees manifested in their con-
duct and conversation with our blessed Redeemer. And
the question may with equal proprietr., and I fesr with
tenfold foree, be put to \l.i at this day, if Christ was here,
as then. And I have much reason to tear, that many
may be found among our great, learned, and teachers of
divine things, who would receive from our divine Master
the same reproof, were he as then a teacher among us.
"Let him that thiDketh he standeth take heed, lest he
fall" I shall, then, in treating on this subject, use my
text as a reproof to us.
"
I. I shall show a number of signs which the Jews had
in that day, as evidences of Jesus being the true Mes-
siah.
II. Show the signs that Jesus Christ, the prophets, and
apostles have given us of his second coming, now fulfil-
ling in this day in which we live.
Under my first head, the signs of JesuB being the true.
Messiah, were,
'
1. The universal peace at his birth. Of this Isaiab
ii. 3, 4, had prophesied 760 years before, "And many
people shall. go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S 8BCOND COMING.
the. mountain of the Lord, to the house of the God of
Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will
walk in his paths; for out of Zion shall go forth the
Jaw; and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. And hs-
shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many
people'; and they shall beat their swords into plough-
shares, and their spears into pruning-hooks. Nation.
shall not lift up sword awUnst nation, neither shall they
learn war any more." This prophecy W88 accomplished
at his birth. - For the temple of J anus was shut the very
year our Savior was born, which denoted ul,)jversal peace;
and this must have been known to thEt 1ewish rulers.
Also the doctrines of Jesus Christ taught that they;
should forgive and pray for their enemies, and learn war
no more •• Peace on earth and good will to men," WIUII.
sung by the heavenly band when they announced the
birth of the Savior in the ,city of David.
2. ~he star that'appeared and guided, the wise men to'
the place of his nativity, prophesied of by Balaam, Num.·
xxiv. 17. "There shall come-a·star oat ofJacoll," &c.,
3. A root oot of Jesse. Isa. "i. 10, " In that day. tlierel.
shall be·., root out: of Jesse, which, shall standJor'an en-
sign of the people; to it shall the Gentiles seek," &c.
That he was a descendant of David was- well known, to·-
the Jews, for they were very sorupulous in their geneal-
ogies, and from-the fact that he was born in the city of
David when his parents went up to be taxed where-thew-
names were emolled.
4. Born ofa virgin. lea. vii. 14, "Therefore the Lord:
himself shall give you a sign. Behold, a virgin shall COll-
ceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel."
This was evidently fulfilled.
5. At Bethlehem. Micah v. 2J "But thou, Bethlehem-
Ephratah, though- thou be little among the thousands of'
Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that
isto be ruler inlsRlel; wbose goings forth have been from,
of old, from everlasting." This was fulfilled, accordin&:
to their own showing, to the wise men from the east.
6. Herod slaying all the children in Bethlehem, from.
two years old and under, prophesied of by Jerumiah"
xui. l~ ".A: voiee was heard in Ramah, lamentation
Digitized by Google

LECTURE XlL
and bitter weeping, Raohael weeping for her children,-
&.e. This must have been known in all Judea.
7. Land forsaken of both of her kings. Isa. vii. 16,
• " For before the child shall knoW' to re~e the evil and
choose the good, the land that thou abhorrest shall be for-
saken of both her kings." Herod and his successor both
died before Jesus was of the common age to refuse the
evil and choose the ~ood.
8. Called out of Egypt. Hosea xi. I, "And called my
son·out of Egypt."
.
9. His fo~nner John. Isa. xl. 3, "The voice of him
that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the
Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God."
All Judea and Jerusalem went into the wilderness to
John, and of course must have seen this sign..
10. Coming suddenly to his temple. Mal. ill. 1, " And
the Lord whom ye 'Ieek shall suddenly come to histem-
pie." For the fulfilment of this prophecy, read John vii.
11-14, "Then the Jews sought him at the feast, and
said, Where is he? Now about tbe midst of the feast,
Jesus went up into the temple and tau~ht:"
n. The gospel preached. lea. bn. 1, "The spirit
of the Lord God is upon' me; because the Lord 'hath
anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek; he
hath sent me to bind up the broken-hearted, to proclaim
liberty to the captive, and the opening of the prison to
them that are bound."
]2. The covenant confirmed one week or seven years.
Daniel ix. '¥I, "And he shall confirm the.covenant with
maliy for one week." John preached three years and a
half, and Christ three and a hal£
.
13. The blind see.
I~a. xlii. 7, "To open the blind
eyes, to bring out the prisoners from the prison; and them
that sit in darkness out of the prison-house."
14. The lame walk. Isaiah. xxxv. 6, "Then shall the
lame man leap as a hart, and the tongue of the dumb
ling." .
15. The deaf hear. Isaiah xxxv. 5, "Then the eyes
of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf
Ihall be unstopped."
16. The dead are raised. Isaiah xxvi. 19, "AAd the
earth shall cast out the dead."
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECOND COMING.
17. His humility when on trial. Isaiah !iii 7, "He
WRB oppressed, and he WRB afilicted; yet he opened not
his mouth. He is brought RB a lamb to the slaughter,
and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so he opened
not his mouth."
.
18. The manner and circumstances of his death.
Psalm xxii. 13-18, "They gaped upon' me with their
mouths 8S a ravening and a roaring lion. I am poured.
out RB water and all my bones are out of joint: my heart
is like wax; it is melted in the midst of my bowels. My
Btrength is dried up like a po.herd, and my tongue cleav-
eth to my jaws, and thou hast brought me into the dust
of death. For dogs have compassed me; the assembly
of the wicked have enclosed me: they pierced my hands
and my feet; I may tell all my bones; they look and stare
upon me. They part my garments among them, and cast
lots upon my vesture." This Psalm WRB indited more
than 1000 years before Christ's crucifixion, and yet every
word had an exact and literal accomplishment in that
transaction, and tbe Jews saw it.
.
19. His resurrection. Psalm xvi. 10, "For thou wilt
not leave my BOul in hell; neither wilt thou suffer thine
Holy One to see corruption."
20. The )lOuring out of the Holy Spirit on the day of
pentecost. Joel ii. 28, " And it shall come to P8BS after-
ward thllt 1 will pollr out my spirit upon all flesh; and
your sons and your daughters shall prophesy; your old
men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see vis-
ions." The apostle told them that this scripture was
fulfilled at the day of pentecost, and this transaction was
well known to the Jews.
.
21. The fulfilment of the seventy weeks spoken of by
Daniel, ix. 24-27, which t have shown in a former lec.
ture, was accomplished to a day. And the Jews well
understood it; for Caiaphas, being high priest that year,
said to the Jews, "Ye know nothing at all, nor consider
that it is expedient for us that one man should die for the
people, and that the whole nation perish not.
And this
Boake he not of' himself, but being high priest that year
he prophesied (or taught the prophecy in Daniel) that
Jesus should die for that nation, and not for that n.tion
•
>
Digitized by Google

LEO'l'UIlB XlL
-ot11, but that also he should gather tqrether in one the'
. children of God that were IICIlttered abroad." John xi.
49-52.-
This evidence was well understood among the ralers
of the Jews; yet notwithstanding all this scripture was
ftllfilled before their facelJ, and all these signs were ac-
tuallyaccomplished in the short space ofthlrty-five years,
and a eloud of witnesscs testifying to all these factlJ, &lid
they themselves had to consent that notable miracles had
been done, they believed not. Well may you say, dear
hearer, that they deserved wrath, and God WIUI just in
destroying their IJation and place. Bllt how is it with
us? Do we believe in that word which we blame them
for rejecting? Are we clear of the sin ofUDbelief? The
Jews were looking' for a temporal, king and kingdom.
And are not we looking for a temP'>ral millennium -
one
in which the ChristiaDS will have the rule of the world?
Let us see to it that we do not stumble at the same stum-
bling-stone; possibly we may have carnal notions as
well as they. Therefore, let us iJll}uire,
II. What sigilli are now fulfilling, which are given UB
by Christ, the prophets, or apostles, of his second coming
and glorious reign? And,
1. Christtells us, Matt. xxiv. 14, "This gospel of the
kingdom shall be preached in all the world lUI a witness,
and then shall the end come." Is not this sign already
-accomplished? Bible translated into more tllllll 200 dif-
ferent languages; missionarjes sent among all the na-
tions known to us on the globe, and reformation succeed-
mg reformation in every' town, nook or comer in this
land. The gospel has now spread over the four quar-
,ters of the globe. It began in Asia. In the apostles'
days, that quarter was lull of light. From thence ,it
'Went into Africa; Rnd, for a number of centuries, Africa
, stretched out her hands unto God. Europe, too, has bed
,a long visitation of gospel blessings; and now America,
,the last quarter of the globe, is reaping a 1,arveBt of
BOuls for the last day. 'I'he gospel, like the sun, arose
in the eo.st, and will sct in the west.
,2. 'l'he pouring out of the Holy Spirit, and last ~ign
,.f;graee. Daniel tells us, &fief BoDa~e sbould pODJe
Digitized by Google

C
H1'
SEC
D
MIN
to his end
nd
one hon
hel
im
ii.
' A
at
at
e s
I M lae tsn
p,
grt-
pri e w Ich
standeth for the children of thy people." This 1 have
o
in
rm
lec
e, lee el
t s
d
upon the waters of the nver, clothed in lmen, Daniel xii.
6' als th
sa
an
I th
Jo
sa
Re x. 1 6,
nd g, h
rig
foo upo the
a, a
his
ft p n
the earth, and in his hand u little book open. This anITel
ld
n
h mus
' pr hes aga
be
e
y
people, and nations, and ton~es, and kings;" meaning
that the gos el
st
in
pubr he
s i
ad·
n
th
pos
ic
s.
nd
en
ul
is
ge
ft
his hand to heaven, and swear by him that liveth for-
er
d
r,'.t t
sh Id
no
ge
A
n,
James says, v. 7, 8, " Be patient, therefore, orethren, un-
to the coming of the Lord
Beh Id,
hu and
n
ait
for
e p
iou
rui
th
ar, and
th
g
patience for it, until he receive the early and latter rain.
e y
so
ien
est lish
ur
arts or
co
g
of the Lord draweth mgh." And now, can any man,
who has an knowledge of th pr
nt f
es d ny that
od
po ed
hi
3iri
n
em
abl mal
r,
for twenty years past? has not the gospel been spread
.
as api
nd
te
e a
o.n
, as
th
pos
ic
day? Has not oppositIon and persecutIOn of the kmgs
of the earth of the w
an th t s' tt th
rna
wa rs,
e 8
be
in
rea
ea
e k t in
ec
nd
w-'
erless, by some invisible power, some mighty arm, .until
e s
an
f
sh Id
se' d, tl
In t
rnl of
~tace descend, and God s purposes completed concern-
Ing this latter da ? Here then,
e h e a lear
d
sib
sig
hat
e c
ing
th Lor
raw
n
3. "Many running to and fro." This is another im-
rts
an
vid
si
of
en
D
el
4, '
lit
thou, 0 Daniel, shut up the words and seal the book,
even to the time of the nd. Man
hall
n t
nd f ."
he
r
pr het
ean
0 b un
to
".. y
shall nm to and fro" in a religious sense, or in a CIvIl or
m
I s
e,
wh
er
me
in
th,
per r
Iy illUJlatenal for my purpose. All must acknowledge,
. that this text is remarkably fiJlfilled in this da in either
91tize

LECTIJU lUL
point of view. If it means missionaries of the cross, no
man Ca.n dispute the ful1i1ment.
See the heralds of sJll-
vation cl'OlJlling a.nd re-crossing on every part of the hab~
itabJe globe. If it means common travellers, or the
rapid means of travel, still our text holds F" and the
fulfilment obvious.
No man, unless he 18 wilfully ig-
norant, ca.n deny th1t this sign is not actually a.nd liter-
ally fulfilled.
.
4. The great increase of knowledge given in the same
text as above. "Even to the time of the end many.shall
run to and fro, a.nd knowledge shall be increased." View
this in any point you please, whether theological or sci- .
entifical, it is literally true; in this day of invention and
improvement, knowledge increases. What of the fifty
different moral societies, which have become general in
the Christia.n world? Is there no increase of knowledge
in our Bible societies, Sabbath schools, tract societies,
temperance societietl, a.nd a catalogue of others for mor-
al reform? What can we say of all the inventions in
the arts? What of all the improvements in science?
In all this, is it not very evident that this sign is now ful-
filling to the vert letter?
5. The great mcrease of riches, and desire for laying
up worldly treasures, as described by JameJ v.l~, "Go
to, now, ye rich men, weep and howl for your miseries
that shall come upon YOII; your riches are coiTupted,
and your garments are moth-eaten; your gold and your
silver is cankered, a.nd the rust of them shall be a wit-
ness against you, and shall eat your flesh as it were
fire.
Ye have heaped treasure together for the last
days." When, since the writer of this epistle was on
OU1' earth, has there been such a.n increase of gold and
silver, and treasures of this life, as at this day? Our
rich men are laying up their aold, silver, and treasures
in abundance. But, as though this individual exertion
for riche.s would not completel.y fulfil our text, they have
e. ntered mto all manner of companies a.nd monopolies,
to "heap treasure together." When, in the history of
the world, can there be shown so many b~nking insti-
tbtions as now? - When so much insurance capitlll as is
~eaped together at this dar? Are not ou~ rich ll1en per-
Digitized by Google

r.BRUT'S SBCOSD COMING.
filctly infatuated with stocks of all kinds?
And mo-
nopoly is the order of the day; to grind down the poor,
and heap treasure together for the last days. Can any
man, who has any knOwledge of these things, deny that
this sign ·of the last days is not evidently accomplished ~
Go to, ye rich men, weep and howl, for your'miseries are
come upon you.
6. The unwillingness of men to hear BOUnd doctrine,
taught us by Paul, 2 Tim. iv. 1-4, "J cha11te thep, there-
fore, before God and the Lord Jesus Chnst, who shall
judge the quick and the dead at his appearing and his
kingdom. For the time will come, when they will not
endure sound doctrine; but after their own lusts shan
they heap to themselves teachers, having itching ears;
and they shall tum away their ears fl'9m the truth, and
shall be turned unto fables." My brethren, need I say
one word -on this passage? There is none of you 80
blind, but you see that this passage does actually de-
IICribe the most fashionable preaching at the present day.
How many thousand do mn after that kind of preaching
which is only relating fables, and that doctrine which
gives all power to man?
7. Scoffers, saying, "Where is the promise of his
eoming ?" as Peter informs us in his 2 Epistle, iii. 3,-4,
" Kno)Ving this first, that there shall come in the last days
scoffers, walking after their oWQ lusts, and saying, Where
is the promise of his coming? . For, since the fathers
fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the be-
ginning of the creation." A right understanding of this
text would show us, at once, that many of us, who fancy
we are in the highway to· heaven, are belongina to this
class of 1IC0ffers. First, they walk after their o:Zn lusts ,
that is, after their own carnal notions concerning the
coming of Christ. They say all things will continue as
they were tiom the creation; ther must have a temporal
millennium; man must be mamed and given in mar-
riage; the world will not be burnt, and, My Lord dolay-
oth his coming, some say a thousand years, and Bome say
365,000 years,. and all the moral change that takes place
on our earth, will be performed by the agency of maDo
Therefore, many 8coff and ridicule the idea, that Scrip-
Digitized by Google
• I

LECTvaJ: lUX.
tore tells us of the second coming of Christ, the manner
object, and time. And many are wiJIingly ignorant
will not hear or read on this subject.
S. " Perilous times," &8 described in 2 Tim. iii. 1-7
"This know, also, that, in the last dals, peril6us times
shall come; for men shall be lovel"8 0 their own selves,
covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, dil!obedient to
parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection,
truce-breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despis-
ers of those that are good, traitors, heady, high-minded,
lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, having the
fOrm of godliness, but denying the power thereof; from
such tum away. For of this sort are they which creep
into houses, and lead captive silly women ,laden with
sins, Jed away with divers lusts, ever I~,
and never
able to come to the knowledge of the truth.
What better description of domestic and public soci-
ety could we expect from the mQ8t close obBen'er of
private characters, domestic circles, and public sot:ietiea
of our times, than is here given? One would conclude,
had he found this in any other book but the Bible, that
it was a modem writer, well acquainted with the human
1Ieart, and the generations now on the earth.
9. "Departing from the faith, giving heed to seducing
spirits, and doctrines of devi11, speaking 1iea in hypocri-
sy; having their conscience seared with a hot iron;
fOrbidding to marry; and commanding to abstain from
meats."
Thus Palll tells Timothy, 1 Epistle, iv. 1-3,
"Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter
times some sBall depart from the faith," &c. This, "We
must acknowledge, has been, and is now fulfiUing. The
whole, almost, of the Cbristian world have departed, or
changed their faith wi~n fifteen years; seducing spirits
are evidently at work; hypocritee are multiplying among
us; Roman Catholics, Shakers, Pilgrims, Fanny W rilrht,
. Owen, and others forbid to marry. Roman Catholics,
and many others among us, are teachiDg to abstain from
meats and drinks, which God hath created to be recein~d
with thanksgiving of them which believe and know the
truth.
10. False teachers. making merchandise of the goa.
[igilizeJ .JyGoogle
l

CHRIST'S RCOND COMING.
pel. See 2 Peter ii. 1-3," But there were false
. prophets, al80, among the people; even as there shall be
false teachers among you, who privily shall bring in
damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that bought
them, and bring upon themselves swift destruction; and
many shllll follow their pernicious ways; by reason of
whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of; and through
covetousness shall they, with feigned words, make
merchandise of you, whose judgment of a long time
lingereth not, and their damnation slumbereth not."
The apostle then goes on to show, that. as it was in
the days of Noah and Lot, 80 it would be in the days
of these false teachers; one generation would not pass
off before the judgment would overtake them, who
make merchandise of the gospel, and like Balaam, who
loved the wages of unrighteousness.
'
n. Jnde gives us a sign, 4 to 19 verses, inclusive.
.. How they told you there should be mockers in the
last time, who should walk after their own ungodly
lusts; these be they who separate themselves, sensual,
having not the Spirit." Some pn;achers deny the agen-
cy of the Spirit in regeneration.
12. Christ gives a sign in Luke xxi. 25-28," And
there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in
the stars; and, upon the earth, distress of nations, with
, perylexity; the sea and the waves roaring; men's hearts
faihng them for fear, and for looking for those things
which are coming on the earth; for the powell of the
heavens shall be shaken; and then shall they see the
Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great
glory. And when these things begin to come to pass,
then look up, and lift up your neadS, for your redemption
draweth nigh.
,
13. Christ gives another sign in l\{att. xx.iv. 23, 24,
"Then, if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is
Christ" or there, believe it not; for there shall arise
falae Christs and false prophets, and shall show g:rent
"Iigns and wonders, insomuch that, if it were poSSible,
they shall deceive the very elect." 'rhere can be no
doubt of this sign being fulfilled.
25·
Digitized by Google

LECTllRE XIX.
14. The fillfilment of the parable of the ten virgins
-
the midnight cry has gone forth from eveIT quarter
of God's moral vineyard, "Behold, the bndegroom·
eometh." The world has been, and are now," trimming
their lamps;" witness the Bible translated into all
la.nJuages; the Bible sooieties sending Bibles to every
nation and family on the earth, the Sabbath schools and
Bible classes studying its sacred precepts.
15. The scattering of the holy people and division
of sects, as prophesied of by Daniel, xii. 7, "And when
he shall have accomplished to scatter the power of the
holy people, all these things shall be finished." This
prophecy is now fulfilling in a remarkable manner.
- Not one sect, who profess holiness, but are divided and
subdivides into contending schisms, and that, too, with.
in twenty years.
16. The division of the political world, as prophesied
of by John, Rev. xvi. 12-16, "And I saw three unclean
spirits, like frogs, come out of the mouth of the dragon,
and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth
of the false prophet, for they are the spirits of devils,
working miracles, which go forth unto the kings of the
earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the
battle of the great day of God AlmightY"-and 19th
"erae, "And the great city was divided into three parts,
and the cities of the nations fell." _ That these spirits
are political, is evident, from the fact that they come
out of the mouth of the dragon, (kings,) and beast,
(Catholic,) false prophet, (Mahometnn,) and unclean,
signifying they are not holy things.
This prophecy
is now accomplishing. What nation, within our knowl-
edge, is not already divided into three political parties 1
None, which is in any way known to your speaker.
17. The church has fulfilled her 1260 years in the
wilderness, spoken of in Rev. xii. 6, 14, "And the
woman fled into the wilderness, where she hath a place
prepared of God, that -they should feed her there a
thousand two hundred and threescore days."
These
days were evidently accomplished in 1798, since which
time the Protestant church has enjoyed privileges even
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECOl'Q) COMING.
m the city of nations, the Roman empire;.-and, accOJldmg
to Daniel, forty-live years will complete the whole pIau
of redemption.
18. The two witnesses prove that the 1260 years are
ended; for it is evident that the Old and New Testa-
ment are not now hid nor kept from the common people,
but have arisen from their dead state, and are now per-
forming the office God designed they should, conveying
light to the world. They 8J:e not clothed in sackcloth,
but, through the missionaries of the cross, and Bible
societies, are testifYing to the world of Christ and hia
seClond coming.
19. The civil power of anti-Christ is destro;yed, and
the 1260 years, in which she was to rule over kmge, and
tread the church under foot, was completed in 17981
when the J.t'r~ch army took the Pope a prisoner, and
erected Italy into a republic i since which tune the Pope
has exercised but little or no power over kings, or the
Protestant church, and she is evidently sinking by the
weight of her own corruptions.
20.
I~ is very evident that the sixth trumpet has
sounded, and the 391 years will be completed in 1839,
when the seventh trumpet will begin to sound, and the
mystery of God will be finished, all that he hath de-
clared to his servants the prophets. If the fall of the
Eastern Empire at Constantinople was included in the
sixth trumpet, which all the principal commentators,
whom J have consulted, agree in, and that trumpet WIlS
pre~d to sound an hour, a day, a month, and a year,
which makes, according to the reckoning of time in
John's prophecy, 391 years and 15 days, then the sixth
trumpet is almost linished.
The whole appearance
strengthens this exposition of the text; fOT the power
of the Turks hilS diminished more rapidly within fifteen
years, than any politician, however anxious he could
have been for the event, could have anticipated.
21. The opening of the sixth seal, revealed in the
6th and 7th chapters of Revelation, was opened in the
French revolution, and carries us through a sealing time
unto the opening of the seventh seal, which ushers us
before the judgment seat of God.
No one can deny
Digitized by Google

LECTORI! XIX.
but that, since the revolution in France, a sealing tim.
has p8S!ed; many have been born into the spiritual
kingdom of Christ, more than has ever been known, in
the sa.me period of time, since the apostles' da.ys. 1'his
seal, then, is evidently opened, and is a strong evidence
that the book of life will soon be opened, and the dead
will be judged out of the things written in the books.
~ The sixth vial was poured out about the year
1822, when the Ottoman power began to be dried up.
This is an important sign that ,ve are on the brink of
the judgment day. Rev. xvi. 12, "And the sixth angel
poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates i and
the waters thereof were dried up, that the way of the
kings of the east might be prepared." 'fhis preparation
is for the last great battle, which will take place at the
pouring out of the seventh vial, in the year 1839 or 40.
At the, pouring out of the seventh vial, a voice from the
throne will pronounce the word, n is done. The kin~­
doms of the earth and governments of the world will
be carried away, and their places not found; Every
writer, of any note, will and have applied this vial to.
the Turkish government, and of course must acknowl-
edge that this vial is poured out, for the power of the
Turkish government is but little more than a name, and
the stren'gth of the Ottoman power dried liP.
23. Another evidence is Daniel's resurrection at the
end of the 1335 days. This evidence is very plain and
evident, for Daniel sar!> xii. 11-13, "And from the
time that the daily sacnfice shall be taken away, and the
abomination that maketh ilesolate set up, there shall be
a thousand two hundred and ninety days." This cannot
be the Jewish sacrifice; for if so, then it must have been
fulfilled about five hundred years past; and as no event
took plac.e then which wo.uld war.ran~ us in so under-
standmg It, I can see no rational objection to understand
this daily sacrifice to mean Pagan rites and sacrifices,
which was the original beast of which the abomination
of desolation was only an image, and, as I have shown
in a former lecture, was to continue six hundred and
sixty-six years; and as Paul tells us, that when he was
taken out of the way. the man of sin would be revealed
. .
Digitized by Google

CBRIST'. U:COl'fJ) COMING.
agreeing in language with Daniel. I think the proof
is strong that from the taking away of Pagan wOl'llhip,
A. D. 508, to the end of the Papal civil power, would be
1290 years, which would end in the year 1798, and thus
agree with all of 10hn's numbers in Revelation. And
then Daniel &RYs, or the angel to Daniel, "Blessed is he
that waiteth and comdlh to the _thousand three hundred
and five and thirty days." Thus add 1335 to 508, will
bring us down to the year A. D. 1843. "But go thou
thy way till the end be, for thou shalt rest and stand in
thy lot at the end of the days." And" Blessed and holy
is he that hath part in the first resurrection."
Then
Daniel will stand in his l~ and lob 'tr1ll stand on the
earth in the latter day.
24. Daniel's vision of 2300 days 10Dg. 1 have in
lIOIIIe former lectures shown clearly that Daniel's vision
concerning the four great -monarchies which were or
were to come, incJudea the woole history of the world,
80 far as God saw fit to reveal it, down to the judgment
day, and the coming of the Son of Man in the clo_uds. I
then showed that the question was asked, how long
should be this vision. The answer was given -
days. I then proved that days were to be counted years,
by the command of God, by the example of Jacoh, and
. by the fulfilment of a part of the vision. I then showed
you when this vision began by the angel Gabriel's own
declaration, who was commanded to instruct Dranicl into
the vision. According to this instruction I showed you
that 490 yeal'll were accomplished of this vision, to a day,
at the crucifixion of Christ, both events happening on the
12th day of the first month, 490 years apart. And ihen
I inquired, that if 490 years of 2300 was fulfilled when'
our Savior was crucified, how much of the vision re-
mained after his death.
1 answered, 1810 yeal"!!. I
then inquired, what year after his birth that would be ;
and the answer was, in the year 1843. I then belrged
the privilege, 'and do now, for any person to show me
any failure of proof on this point, or where, poIIIIibly, ac-
cording to Scripture, there mal be a failure in the cal-
culation I have made on this VIsion. I have not yet, by
seventeen yea1'll study, been able to discover where 1
qhtfiUl.
'
Digitized by Google

LECTURE XIX.
r-tly. Another sign of the last day you will find
given by Paul, 1 Thess. v. 2, 3, .. For yourselves know
perfectly, that the day of the Lord so cometh as 'a thief
In the night.
For when they shall say, Peace and
I18fety, then sudden desmlction cometh upon them, as _
travail upon a woman with child; and they shall not
e:;cape." Compare 2 Pet. ii. 17~
The doctrine of peace and safety, and that there is
DO punishment in the future state, had hut few or no
advocates until very recently.
I am not certain but
the first preacher of this soul-destroying doctrine is now
living; and they 11019' boast of their multitudes of fol-
lowers and advocates. There have been, in past ages, a
few who preached the doctrine of the restoration of all
men, after a suitable punishment in hell; but to rtWdern
Univenali8t8 belongs the invention of preaching" peace
and safety when sudden dwtruction cometh." If this
sign is not fulfilled in the preachers of -this order lit thill
time, I ask, How can it be fulfilled r and what must the
doctrine of those be who preach .. peace and safety"?
Surely, no human being can invent a doctrine so full of
(promised) .. peace and safety" to the wicked as this;
and no other denomination on onr globe ever have op-
posed the doctrine of the coming of Christ, the judl{-
ment day, and filture punishments, but the modem UDl-
versalists; and if this is the doctrine that Panl had
reference to in our text, as, I am fully satisfied, every
candid lind religious mind must and will allow, then
we may res!lo,tably 8\lppose .. IItlddm destruction cometh
upon them, and they shall nol escape."
Therefore, my dear reader, I shall now, with a few
closing remarks, leave you to your own reflections.
The Jews had twenty-one signs·in the Scriptures given
them of the first coining and person of Jesus Christ. ; yet
many rejected him as an impostor. You say, if/ou had
lived in that day, you would have believed; an you in
your hearts condemn them as a hardened race of unbe-
lievers; and notwithstanding their great.pletence to piety,
you say they were justly denounced by onr Sayior as a
generation of vipera and a band of hypocrite!!. But, my
bearer., be careful your own hearts do not condemn you
Digitized by Google

CHRIST'S SECOND COMING.
for your unbelief in the signs which the prophets, Christ,
and the apostles have given you as tokens of his second
cl'ming and the judgment day. I have broughtfrom the
word of God twenty-five signs of his second coming, end
of the world, and jud:.;ment day, and all apparently fulfil-
led within the age of many present, or fulfilling now be-
fore your eyes. And do you believe? Many of you
profe38 to be pious; many of you say, Lord, Lord! But
do you believe his word? Are you willing to risk your
life, your character, Jour all, on his word? or are you
fearful and unbelievlnl7? Now is the time to try men's
souls. No'v, if you wi:ili to be sllre, examine closely, and
Bee whether your faith will stand in the day of trial which
is roming; yes, has already come, in a thousand ways, to
draw you from the gOi'pel of Christ to another new gos-
pel, which is not the I;l'ospel of God. "Can ye not dis-
cern the "igns of th~ tllnes ? .. Let me /five you one rule
by which you may know a false doctrme. Thl'y m1y
have many good thing;i in their creed9, they may be very
plausible m their arguments, and after all deceive you.
But examine them closely, and you will find they will
d 'ny, ridicule, 01' try to flo away some promiDtmt doctrine
of the Bible, such as the divinity of Christ, his second
coming, office of the Holy Spirit, eternal punishment,
doctrille of grace, election', conviction for sin, regene-
. ration, repentance, or faith. And when you hear or see
them make light or scoff at any thing of this kind in the
word of God, go not after them, nor bid them God speed.
" Can ye not discern the si "'ns of the times? ..
And to you, impenitent friend, God has at all times
given you warning of his approaching judgments. If
you repent, believe bis worll, and break off rour sins by
riO'hteousness, he is faithful and just to forgIve you your
si~s. Why not take warning hy the past? Is there no
example for you?
Look at the antediluvian world,
Sodom and Gomorrah, Nineveh, Babylon, J eru.galem, and
the once enlightened Asia, now worse than in heathen-
ish darkness. Will God punish nGtions, nnd not indi-
viduals? This cannot be, for nations are comp'lsed of
individuals; and God is just, for he hath appointed a
lIay in which he will judge the world in righteoUAness.
Digitized by Google
•

LECTURE DL
"Can ye not discern the sighs of the tunes? " Will
God's word fail of being 8.ccomplished ? Can you show
a single instance? Why not listen, then, to the warn-
ings and admonitioruo, to the calls and invitations, to the
examples and precepts contained therein? " Can ye not
discern the si!mS of the times?" Will God cut off the
unbelieving Pharisee for not discerning the siens of
the times, aod let you, with twofold more light, go free?
No: how can ye escape, if you neglect this great salva-
tion ? W ntch, then, "the signs of the times.» I say,
Watch.
NOTE.
The author wishes to state that Lecture VIII. in this
work was written twelve years since; and that the author-
ities he then consulted fixpd the rise of the Turkish empire
at 12D8. lIe is now satisfied, by the examination of other
authorities on the subject, that the foundation of that em-
pire was laid in 1299.
Hence the things mentioned in
Lecture VIi. (p. 10D,) relative to persecutions, &c., and to
the coming of the third woe,as mentioned in Lecture XIIl.
(p. 202,) which he supposed would take place in 1839, ac-
!loraing to the first computation, will not be realized until
the year 1840.