THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1997-02-04

dear b ahá’í f riends,

with the four year plan successfully launched and the believers in all

parts of the world engaged in the energetic pursuit of its objectives, the

universal house of justice has decided that it is timely to inform you of the

state of the international funds of the faith. we have been asked to convey

the following to you.

As you are well aware, the major focus of attention for the past several

years has been the Arc projects fund, with the friends summoned to provide

financial support for the largest project ever undertaken by the worldwide bahá’í community. The response of the followers of bahá’u’lláh in every

part of the planet has been magnificent, resulting in a sacrificial outpouring

of contributions of a magnitude far beyond that ever previously achieved.

The house of justice was pleased to be able to announce in its ri¤ván 1996

message the accomplishment of the Three year plan goal of 74 million u.S.

dollars for that f und.

it appears that the contribution of ten million dollars each year until the

end of the century for the Arc projects fund, now being made by the believers

in response to the call of the house of justice set out in its letter of 20 june

1995, will be sufficient to meet the needs for completion of this enterprise,

although there always remains the possibility of unforeseen disturbances in

the years ahead modifying this projection. The planning and execution of the vast undertaking on mount carmel is being carried out with careful atten-

tion to economy, without compromising the high standards of construction befitting the edifices and terraces on the mountain of god.

even though there has been a striking increase in the total amount re-

ceived at the world center during the past several years, the level of contri-

butions to the bahá’í international fund itself has diminished during that

period, in which attention was centered on a strenuous endeavor to meet the needs of the Arc projects fund. in reaction to this diminution of support

to the bahá’í international fund, the house of justice enforced stringent

economy at the bahá’í world center and also felt compelled to limit the

funds available to meet the needs of the f aith in other parts of the world.240.1

240.2

240.3

240.4

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

558The bahá’í international fund provides assistance to bahá’í communities

in those countries where the believers lack the means to exploit adequately

the opportunities for the expansion of the faith and for the diffusion of its

spirit. As the cause of god moves irresistibly forward in every sphere of its

manifold activities, propelled by the mysterious spiritual forces which are ad-

vancing humanity through a turbulent age of transition, the calls made on it

can only increase. The fund will be required to support the development of

human resources, an indispensable element of the rapidly advancing process

of entry by troops. with the emergence of new opportunities to increase the

influence of the faith on the affairs of humanity, the necessary means must be

provided to expand the work of the bahá’í international community at the

united Nations, the representation of the faith at international conferences

of non-governmental organizations, and the number of social and economic

development projects scattered over the surface of the planet.

The work at the world center, which is carried out with the support of

the bahá’í international fund, includes the preservation and classification of

the Sacred Texts, and the administrative functions performed here to meet the needs of a worldwide community expanding in both the magnitude and

scope of its activities. An important aspect of this work is that of restoring and maintaining the holy places, providing facilities for pilgrims and an in-

creasing number of visitors, and caring for the gardens which beautify the

environs of the holy Shrines. with the expansion of high-density urban

development in the holy land, it is essential that properties be acquired close

to the Shrines and other holy places, to protect them from disturbance; the

favorable conditions now developing for such property acquisitions may not

recur until the far distant future, and a substantial proportion of the resources of the fund will be required for this purpose in the years immediately ahead.

fully aware of the sacrificial response of the believers to every call ad-

dressed to them in the past, the house of justice will continue to guide

the friends in proceeding energetically along every avenue available for the advancement of the faith and its interests. it will do so in full confidence

that the dearly loved followers of bahá’u’lláh will remain ever conscious of

their privilege and duty to attend to the needs of the cause, and will not

suffer the onward march of the faith to be retarded through an inadequacy

of resources. it will offer its supplications in the holy Shrines that their

consecrated endeavors may attract the blessings of their b eloved.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

for Department  of tHe secretariat240.5

240.6

240.7

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

559241

Passing of Hushang Ahdieh,

Former Continental Counselor

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]