THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

11 December 2014

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

Further to the message of the Universal House of Justice dated 10 July 2014 to the Bahá’ís of the world announcing the implementation of the Badí‘ calendar at Naw-Rúz 172 B.E. and the letter of the same date addressed to you on its behalf, we are pleased to send to you the enclosed document, which contains two tables prepared by an ad hoc committee at the Bahá’í World Centre. Table A sets out the Bahá’í dates for Naw-Rúz, the Twin Holy Birthdays, and Ayyám-i-Há, together with their Gregorian calendar equivalents, for the next fifty years. Table B contains the dates for other Holy Days, Feast Days, and the month of fasting. Note that during this period the Gregorian equivalent dates for Naw-Rúz are either 20 or 21 March.

In its 10 July message the House of Justice indicated that the dates for Naw-Rúz and the Twin Holy Birthdays are to be determined by means of astronomical computations from reliable sources. The dates in the enclosed tables are derived from data provided by Her Majesty’s Nautical Almanac Office in the United Kingdom. The point of reference for Ṭihrán is taken from the World Geodetic System 1984, a recognized standard for global mapping and navigation.

You may draw from this letter and its enclosure to provide information to those who prepare calendars and to respond to questions from members of your community.

With loving Bahá’í greetings,

Department of the Secretariat

Bahá’í Dates 172 to 221 B.E.

Prepared by an ad hoc committee at the Bahá’í World Centre using data provided by Her Majesty’s Nautical Almanac Office in the United Kingdom. The point of reference for Ṭihrán is taken from the World Geodetic System 1984.

Dates of Naw-Rúz, the Twin Holy Birthdays, and Ayyám-i-Há

Other Significant Bahá’í Dates

***

Note: The Bahá’í day ends and a new one begins at sunset; consequently, the day on

which a Feast or Holy Day is observed begins at sunset of the day before the
Gregorian calendar dates given above.

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]