I

CONTENTS
List of illustrations Page
List of contributors
Introduction
Robert H. Stockman
Part 1
Leadershi and authoritative texts
1 Overview: The Central Figures, the institutions of the Baha'i Faith, and the Covenant
Shahin V a_f
ai
2 The life of the Bab
Omid Ghaemmaghami
3 The writings and teachings of the Bab
Nader Sa iedi
4 Baha'u'llah
Mopjan Momen
5 The writings of Baha'u'llah
Steven Phelps
6 'Abdu'l-Baha 'Abbas
Necati Alkan
7 The writings and utterances of 'Abdu'l-Baha
Mina Yazdani
8 Shoghi Effendi Rabbani
Richard Hollinger
9 The English-language writings of Shoghi Effendi
Sandra Lynn Hutchison
10 The Persian writings of Shoghi Effendi
Mina Yazdani
Copyrighted material

11 The Universal House of Justice
Todd Smith
12 The writings of the Universal House of Justice
Todd Smith
Part 2
Theology
13 Theology and philosophy
Mikhail Sergeev
14 God, revelation, and manifestation
Vargha Bolodo-Taefi
15 Progressive revelation
Sasha Dehghani
16 Interfaith relations
Anne M. Pearson and Robert H. Stockman
17 The harmony of science and religion
Steven Phelps
Part 3
Humanity
18 Oneness and unity
Robert H. Stockman
19 The physical and spiritual dimensions of human nature
Ian Kluge
20 Unity in diversity: African Americans and the Baha'i Faith
Guy Emerson Mount
21 The equality of the sexes
Anne M. Pearson
22 Mysticism
Vargha Bolodo-Taefi
23 Progress of the soul: Life after death
Mikhail Sergeev
Copyrighted material

24 Baha'i spirituality and spiritual practices
Christopher White
Part4
Society
25 Artistic expression
Anne Gordon Perry
26 Economics: The prosperity of the world and the development of nations
Augusto Lopez-Claros
27 Education in pedagogy and practice
Filip Boicu and Siyamak Zabihi-Moghaddam
28 Environment and sustainability
Arthur Lyon Dahl
29 Governance
Graham Hassall
30Law
Roshan Danesh
31 Marriage and family life
Wendi Momen
32 Peace
Hoda Mahmoudi
33 Work and business
Wendi Momen
Part 5
The contemporary Baha'i community
34 The Covenant and Covenant-breaking
Wendy M. Heller
35 The Baha'i Administrative Order
Todd Smith
36 Responding to injustice with constructive agency
Michael Karlberg and Derik Smith
Copyrighted material

51 Sub-Saharan Africa
Robert H. Stockman and Will C. van den Hoonaard
Glossary
General Index
Copyrighted material

Illustrations Page
Figures
2.1 The house of the Bab in Shiraz, Iran, destroyed in 1979.
2.2 The fortress of Ma-Ku.
2.3 The Shrine of the Bab.
3.1 Calligraphy by the Bab.
4.1 The mansion of Bahji outside 'Akka.
4.2 The Shrine of Baha'u'llah, outside 'Akka.
5.1 A calligraphic rendering of Baha'u'llah's writings.
6.1 Photograph of 'Abdu'l-Baha taken in 1868 (age 24).
6.2 Photograph of 'Abdu'l-Baha, 1912.
6.3 Design of the Shrine of 'Abdu'l-Baha.
8.1 Shoghi Effendi.
11.1 Seat of the Universal House of Justice.
20.1 Louis Gregory and Louisa Mathew Gregory.
25.1 A pageant in Austin, Texas, performed to celebrate the first Day of Ric;lvan.
25.2 'The New Day' by Mark Tobey, an abstract painting inspired by Baha'i teachings.
25.3 A puppet show being performed at a community gathering at the Baha'i Centre in
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.
35.1 An aerial view of the Arc, the principal institutions of the Baha'i World Centre, Haifa,
Israel.
43.1 The Baha'i House of Worship in Langenhain, Germany, outside Frankfurt.
43.2 Number of local Spiritual Assemblies in Europe based on official sources.
44.1 The first Baha'i House of Worship in the world was completed in Ashgabat,
Turkmenistan, in 1908.
45.1 The Baha'i House of Worship and 'Mother Temple of Latin America,' located in
Panama City, Panama.
45.2 The Baha'i House of Worship and 'Mother Temple for South America,' located in
Santiago, Chile. 566
45.3 The first local Baha'i House of Worship in South America, in Agua Azul, Colombia,
completed in 2018.
46.1 The Baha'i House of Worship for North America, located in Wilmette, Illinois, 25
kilometres north of Chicago.
48.1 The continental Baha'i House of Worship for Australia and the 'Mother Temple of the
Antipodes', in Ingleside, outside Sydney.
Copyrighted material

48.2 The Baha'i House of Worship and 'Mother Temple of the Pacific Islands', located in
Tiapapata, Samoa.
48.3 Design for the national Baha'i House of Worship of New Guinea, located in Port
Moresby.
48.4 Design for the local Baha'i House of Worship in Tanna, Vanuatu.
49.1 The Baha'i House of Worship and 'Mother Temple of the Indian subcontinent', located
in New Delhi, India.
49.2 Design for the first local Baha'i House of Worship in India, located in Bihar Sharif.
50.1 The local Baha'i House of Worship in Battambang, Cambodia.
51.1 The continental Baha'i House of Worship and 'Mother Temple of Africa', located in
Kampala, Uganda.
51.2 Design for the national Baha'i House of Worship for the Democratic Republic of
Congo, located in Kinshasa.
51.3 Design for the local Baha'i House of Worship in Matunda Soy, Kenya.
Tables
43.1 Countries where Baha'i communities existed in 1926 and subsequent years of
establishment
Copyrighted material

CONTRIBUTORS
Elham Afnan holds a PhD in English literature from McMaster University. She is the
author of articles on topics related to Baha'i studies, nineteenth-century British literature,
and literary utopias and does translation work from Persian into English. She is currently
serving in the research department at the Baha'i World Centre.
Nesreen Akhtarkhavari holds a law degree from the University of Jordan, a master's in
criminology, and a PhD in multilingual-multicultural education from Florida State
University. She is an associate professor of Arabic language and culture and the director of
Arabic studies at DePaul University. Her research focuses on minority rights in the Arab
world, Arabic literature, indigenous feminism, and translation. She also co-authored the
National Standards for Teaching Arabic in the United States, published a collection of
Arabic short stories, translated eight literary books from Arabic into English, and served as
editor of the Arabic Literature and Language Series for Michigan State University Press.
Necati Alkan holds an MA in Islamic studies and a PhD in history from the Ruhr
University of Bochum and is currently research associate at the University of Bamberg. He
is a historian of the late Ottoman Empire and writes and publishes about the religious,
intellectual, and sociopolitical aspects of Ottoman history. His most recent (forthcoming)
publication is the monograph Non-Sunni Muslims in the Late Ottoman Empire: State and
Missionary Perceptions of the Alawis (I.B. Tauris/Bloomsbury). He is known for his
expertise in the Ottoman/Turkish aspect of Baha'i studies.
Filip Boicu holds a PhD in education from the University of Nottingham and is a reviewer
for the International Journal of Educational Development. He writes in the field of higher
education and is due to present academic conference papers on how digitalization and
curriculum building can respond to issues of world order. He is also currently exploring
notions of a conceptual framework for Baha'i education. Occasionally, he writes thought
pieces connecting the two: www.lancaster.ac.uk/fass/events/hecu8/papers/Boicu.pdf.
Vargha Bolodo-Taefi holds a BA in advanced Baha'i studies and a PhD in politics and
international affairs from the University of Warwick. He has worked across public and
private sectors in trade and investment policy. His research interests include Baha'i
economics, Baha'i theology, comparative religion, asymmetric conflict, coercive diplomacy,
and terrorism. He is currently serving in the research department at the Baha'i World
Centre.
Copyrighted material

Arthur Lyon Dahl, Ph.D., is an environmental scientist, president of the International
Environment Forum, Wilmette Institute faculty member, and a retired senior official of the
UN Environment Programme, with over 50 years' experience in coral reef ecology,
sustainability, and systems science, from Pacific Island villages to global governance. His
books include Unless and Until: A Baha'i Focus on the Environment, The Eco Principle:
Ecology and Economics in Symbiosis, In Pursuit of Hope: A Guide for the Seeker, and (with
Augusto Lopez-Claros and Maja Groff) Global Governance and the Emergence of Global
Institutions for the 21st Century.
Roshan Danesh holds his SJD from Harvard Law School. He has published extensively on
Baha'i law, conflict resolution, and Indigenous rights. His most recent publication is
Dimensions of Baha'i Law (Wilmette, IL: Baha'i Publishing Trust, 2019).
Sasha Dehghani received his MA in Islamic studies, Protestant theology/religious studies,
and political science at the University of Jena; completed his PhD in Arabic studies at the
Free University of Berlin; and was a German Research Foundation (DFG) research associate
at the Centre for Literary and Cultural Studies in Berlin. Since 2012 he has been a researcher
and project manager in the research department at the Baha'i World Centre. In 2017 he was
a visiting scholar at Harvard's Center for the Study of World Religions, and in 2020-2021 he
was a Forum Humanum visiting professor at the Academy of World Religions, University
of Hamburg. Among his publications are Martyrium und Messianismus: Die Geburtsstunde
des Bahaitums (Harrassowitz, 2011) and Martyrdom in the Modern Middle East (Ergon,
2014).
Seena Fazel is Professor of Forensic Psychiatry at the University of Oxford. He co-edited
The Baha 'is of Iran: Socio-historical Studies (Routledge, 2008), Reason and Revelation: New
Directions in Baha'i Thought (Kalimat, 2002), and Search for Values: Ethics in Baha'i
Thought (Kalimat, 2004) and co-authored an introductory book on the Baha'i Faith, The
Baha'i Faith in Words and Images (Oneworld, 2012).
Omid Ghaemmaghami is Associate Professor of Arabic and Middle Eastern Studies and
Director of the Middle East and North Africa Studies Program (MENA) at the State
University of New York (SUNY) in Binghamton. His recent publications include the
monograph Encounters with the Hidden Imam in Early and Pre-Modern Twelver Shz'z Islam,
published in 2020 by Brill Academic Publishers.
Graham Hassall obtained his PhD in Pacific history at the Australian National University
in 1990. Until 2020 he taught in departments of history, law, and government at universities
in Papua New Guinea, Australia, Switzerland, Fiji, and New Zealand. He and his family now
reside in Qlieensland, Australia. Recent publications include Government and Public Policy
in the Pacific Islands (Emerald, 2021) and the co-edited books Achieving Sustainable E-
Government in Pacific Island States (Springer, 2017), New Zealand and the UN Security
Copyrighted material

Council 2015-16 (Massey University Press, 2020), and Social Policy and Processes in
Aotearoa New Zealand (Massey University Press, 2021). His research in Baha'i history and
biography has been published in the Australian Dictionary of Biography, the Journal of
Religious History, the Journal of Baha'i Studies, and elsewhere. A second edition of Shoghi
Effendi's communications to Australasia-Messages
to the Antipodes-was
published in
2021.
Wendy M. Heller has taught composition at Humboldt State University and has published
articles on Baha'i topics and a biography of Lidia Zamenhof (George Ronald, 1984). She has
co-authored
chapters
in volumes
including
Embracing
the Other: Philosophical,
Psychological, and Historical Perspectives on Altruism (New York University Press, 1992).
She was editor of the Journal of Baha'i Studies for six years and is a contributing editor of
Religious Holidays and Calendars: An Encyclopedic Handbook. Since 2012 she has served in
the publishing department at the Baha'i World Centre in Haifa, Israel.
Richard Hollinger is Head of Archives and Special Collections at Fogler Library, the
University of Maine. He holds an MA in Middle Eastern history from the University of
California Los Angeles and an MA in public history and historic preservation from
California State University at Dominguez Hills. He has published work on the history of the
Baha'i Faith in the Middle East and North America.
Sandra Lynn Hutchison holds a PhD in English literature from the University of Toronto
and has taught at universities around the world. Currently, she teaches scriptural exegesis
through the Wilmette Institute and writing through the Baha'i Institute for Higher
Education. Her interest in the writings of Shoghi Effendi dates back to the 1990s, when she
served in the English section of the research department at the Baha'i World Centre. She
has published a number of articles on Baha'i subjects and is currently completing a book
about reading the Baha'i Writings. She is the author of a memoir, Chinese Brushstrokes:
Stories of China (Turnstone Press, 1996), and a volume of poetry, The Art of Nesting
(George Ronald, 2008). She is the founder and editor of elixir-journal.erg, a journal of the
arts that features work inspired by the Baha'i vision and teachings.
Michael Karlberg is a professor of communication
studies at Western Washington
University. His scholarship examines prevailing conceptions of human nature, power, social
organization, and social change and their implications for the pursuit of peace and justice.
He is the author of two books, Beyond the Culture of Contest and Constructing Social
Reality, as well as numerous articles on related themes.
Ian Kluge is an independent philosophy scholar who has published numerous articles about
the philosophical aspects of the Baha'i Writings as well as comparative studies between the
Writings and other thinkers such as Aristotle, Plotinus, Kant, Nietzsche, Whitehead, Bloch,
Heidegger, and Marcel. Other articles consider contemporary
issues from a Baha'i
Copyrighted material

perspective, among them equality, freedom, justice, meta-ethics, the new atheism, and the
philosophy of history. He has taught courses for the BIHE and the Wilmette Institute and
been a frequent presenter at the Irfan Colloquia and Association for Baha'i Studies
conferences.
Augusto Lopez-Claros is Chair of the Global Governance Forum. He has held senior
positions at the International Monetary Fund, the World Economic Forum, and the World
Bank, where he was Director of the Global Indicators Group. He has a PhD in economics
from Duke University and a diploma in mathematical statistics from Cambridge University.
He has lectured and published widely. His book Global Governance and the Emergence of
Global Institutions for the 21st Century was published by Cambridge University Press in
2020.
Hoda Mahmoudi is Chair of the Baha'i Chair for World Peace at the University of
Maryland. Her prior appointments include coordinator of the research department at the
Baha'i World Centre in Haifa, Israel; dean of the College of Arts and Sciences at
Northeastern Illinois University; and faculty member in the department of sociology. She is
co-author of a new book, A World Without War: 'Abdu'l-Baha and the Discourse for Global
Peace, and is co-editor of Interdisciplinary Perspectives on Human Rights and Human
Dignity.
Moojan Momen is an independent researcher and co-chair of the department of religion,
history, and philosophy at the Wilmette Institute. He has authored articles and books on the
Baha'i Faith, Shi'i Islam, and the study of religion. His books include Introduction to Shi'i
Islam (1985), Understanding Religion (2008), The Baha'i Communities of Iran (2 vols, 2015-
22).
Wendi Momen holds a PhD in international relations from London School of Economics,
where she is a governor. The author of thirteen books, she is an editor at George Ronald
Publisher. She co-founded Ethical Business Building the Future ( ebbf) and was a magistrate
in criminal courts and lay judge in family courts for 38 years. She is a faculty member at
the Wilmette Institute, teaching courses on social change, marriage,
and personal
transformation and resilience.
Guy Emerson Mount is an assistant professor of African American history at Auburn
University. He also serves as an associate editor for Black Perspectives, the online magazine
of the African American Intellectual History Society. His research focuses on the
intersection of slavery, capitalism, and empire. He earned his PhD from the University of
Chicago, where he co-founded the scholarly team that uncovered the university's ties to
slavery and organized, alongside other activists on the South side of Chicago, for
reparations.
Copyrighted material

Anne M. Pearson holds a PhD in religious studies from McMaster University, specializing
in Hinduism. She taught at McMaster University and the University of Waterloo for 25
years and is the author of a book on ritual fasts in the lives of Hindu women, as well as
numerous articles on various topics including Hinduism in Canada .. She is a faculty member
of the Wilmette Institute, teaching courses on interfaith dialogue, gender equality, and
Asian religions.
Anne Gordon Perry holds a PhD in aesthetic studies from the University of Texas, Dallas.
She teaches writing, humanities, and art appreciation at the Art Institute of Dallas and
courses in art, film, and Baha'i history through the Wilmette Institute. She is the author of a
number of essays on the arts, the main author of Green Acre on the Piscataqua, and co-
producer of the documentary film Luminous Journey: 'Abdu'l-Baha in America, 1912.
Steven Phelps holds a PhD in physics from Princeton University, specializing in cosmology,
and studied philosophy at Stanford University. His scientific publications include studies on
the dynamics and masses of nearby galaxies. He coordinated the indexing and translation of
Baha'i scriptures in the Baha'i World Centre's research department for 12 years.
Nader Saiedi teaches Baha'i studies at UCLA. He received his PhD in sociology in 1983
from the University of Wisconsin, taught sociology for 30 years, and in 2013 joined the
UCLA department of Near Eastern languages and cultures as adjunct professor of Baha'i
religion and history in Iran. His published books include Gate of the Heart, Logos and
Civilization, and The Birth of Social Theory.
Mikhail Sergeev holds a PhD in philosophy of religion from Temple University in
Philadelphia. He teaches at the University of Arts in Philadelphia and serves as co-chair and
faculty of the department of religion, philosophy, and theology at Wilmette Institute. He is
the author of more than 200 scholarly, journalistic, and creative works, including the
monograph Theory of Religious Cycles: Tradition, Modernity, and the Baha'i Faith (Brill,
2015). Website: http://uarts.digication.com/msergeev/.
Derik Smith has a PhD in English literature from Northwestern University, teaches in the
department of literature at Claremont McKenna College, and chairs the intercollegiate
department of Africana studies at the Claremont Colleges. He is the author of Robert
Hayden in Verse: New Histories of African American Poetry and the Black Arts Era.
Peter Smith is an associate professor at Mahidol University, Thailand, where he helped
establish its International College (MUIC) and founded MUIC's social science division,
working there until his retirement. He gained a PhD in the sociology of religion from the
University of Lancaster and is the author of several books on the Baha'i Faith, including The
Babi and Baha'i Religions: From Messianic Shi'ism to a World Religion, An Introduction to
the Baha'i Faith (Cambridge), and A Concise Encyclopedia of the Baha'i Faith.
Copyrighted material

Todd Smith holds a PhD from the University of Toronto, where he focused on the
development of a consultative epistemology as it pertains to health and illness. He has since
published articles on epistemology, the harmony of science and religion, freedom, and
historical consciousness. He was recently the coordinator of the research department at the
Baha'i World Centre in Haifa, Israel, and now serves on the executive committee of the
Association for Baha'i Studies in North America.
Robert H. Stockman holds a ThD in history of religion in the United States from Harvard
University and teaches religious studies at Indiana University South Bend. He is director of
the Wilmette Institute, an online Baha'i educational agency affiliated with the Graduate
Theological Union of Berkeley, CA. He has published six books and numerous articles on
Baha'i history, theology, and teachings.
Shahin Yafai holds a JD from the University of South Carolina School of Law and has 25
years of legal experience. He has co-authored a legal treatise on appellate practice and has
authored several other books, including The Baha'i Faith: Teachings, History, and Practices.
He is the co-author of the forthcoming work Exploring the Kitab-i-Aqdas: The Laws and
Teachings of the Baha'i Faith (I.B. Tauris).
Will C. van den Hoonaard is Professor Emeritus at the University of New Brunswick in
Fredericton and author of books on Iceland, a history of Canadian Baha'is, the Dutch of
New Brunswick, gender issues, inductive research, a 700-year history of women
mapmakers, and research ethics. A founding member of the Canadian Interagency Panel on
Research Ethics and Woodrow Wilson Fellow, he obtained a PhD in sociology from the
University of Manchester.
Christopher White is a professor of religion at Vassar College. He earned his PhD in
religious studies from Harvard University, where he focused on religion, science,
technology, and spirituality in the modern US. He is the author of a number of articles and
two books, Unsettled Minds: Psychology and the Search for Spiritual Assurance (California)
and Other Worlds: Spirituality and the Search for Invisible Dimensions (Harvard).
Mina Yazdani is an associate professor of history at Eastern Kentucky University. She
earned her PhD in Middle Eastern and Islamic Studies from the department of Near and
Middle Eastern Civilizations at the University of Toronto in 2011. She has published a book
on the social conditions in Iran during the Qajar period as reflected in the Baha'i Writings,
as well as several articles in Persian and English in peer-reviewed academic journals.
Siyamak Zabihi-Moghaddam holds a PhD in Middle Eastern history from the University
of Haifa and has been visiting faculty at Western Washington University and Bennington
College. His articles have appeared in the Journal of Women's History, the Journal of
Religious History, Contemporary Review of the Middle East, and Iranian Studies. In
Copyrighted material

addition, he has edited a volume of Persian primary sources on the 1903 massacre of Baha'is
in Yazd, Iran (Baha'i-Verlag, 2016).
Copyrighted material

Introduction
Robert H. Stockman
DOI: 10.4324/9780429027772-1
The Baha'i Faith is a small but remarkably widespread and diverse religion with a growing
prominence in the world. A century and three quarters old, the Faith has spread from its
Shi'i homeland in Iran to the far corners of the globe, with communities exceeding 100,000
members in such diverse countries as Bolivia, Congo, India, Kenya, and the United States.
Its scriptures, which exceed 16 million words in length in the original Arabic and Persian,
have been collected and are gradually being authenticated, classified, and published (both in
the original languages and in English translation) by the staff of the Baha'i World Centre in
Haifa, Israel. Perhaps ten percent of the writings of Baha'u'llah, its prophet-founder (which
alone are nearly six million words in length) have been translated into English to date.
Because it has no clergy, the Faith has never needed seminaries or institutions to train
leadership, but since the mid-1990s, it has redoubled its worldwide effort to educate and
train everyone-whether
Baha'is or interested others-to
become active protagonists in
their own spiritual development and the social progress of their communities. Scholarship
on the Faith, which was quite limited fifty years ago, is now growing rapidly. Sociological
study of its communities is at a preliminary stage, although there is now a vigorous internal
effort to experiment, innovate, document, and widely diffuse new ideas.
As a result, the Baha'i Faith is a religion undergoing rapid development. Every few
decades it has undergone a significant innovation. Siyyid Mirza 'Ali-MulJ.ammad of Shiraz
(1819-50), who took the title of the Bab and was the Faith's first prophet-founder, built a
community based primarily on the fulfilment of Twelver Shi'i messianism and new
teachings about prayer and personal transformation. His community subsequently defended
itself gallantly but was almost wiped out in a bloodbath of repression inspired by the Shi'ah
clergy, who felt threatened by the new faith. Mirza I:Iusayn-'Ali of Nur (1817-92), titled
Baha'u'llah, who declared Himself a Manifestation of God in 1863, transformed that
'seemingly negligible offshoot of the Shaykhi school of the lthna-'Ashariyyih [Twelver] sect
of Shi'ah Islam' (Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By xii) into a nonviolent, cosmopolitan
community that came to include Middle Eastern Jews, Zoroastrians, Christians, and Sunni
Muslims and which sought to create a world that was unified, just, and at peace. 'Abdu'l-
Baha 'Abbas (1844-1921), Baha'u'llah's eldest son, who became the Head of the Faith upon
Copyrighted material

His Father's passing, decisively expanded the Faith to North America and Europe, oversaw
preliminary efforts to take it to East Asia, Australia, and Latin America, strengthened its
organization and community life, and developed an approach to its teachings that spoke to
western Christian and secular audiences.
Shoghi Effendi Rabbani (1897-1957), grandson of 'Abdu'l-Baha, who became Head of the
Faith in 1921, utilized directives and principles in the writings of Baha'u'llah and 'Abdu'l-
Baha to build the Baha'i Administrative Order and then used that organization to take the
Faith to nearly every country in the world, in fulfilment of other writings by 'Abdu'l-Baha.
He also translated many of Baha'u'llah's important works into English and provided
essential interpretations of key concepts. The Universal House of Justice, established in 1963
on the basis of instructions by Baha'u'llah and 'Abdu'l-Baha and the administrative
structure raised by Shoghi Effendi, first oversaw a massive expansion in membership-over
ten-fold, from four hundred thousand to five million in three decades-then
in the mid-
1990s launched a systematic plan to strengthen Baha'i education, personal spiritual life,
Baha'i community development, and an outward reach to society that has transformed the
nature of the Faith in the early twenty-first century.
Each of these transformations-guided
by the Head of the Faith-produced
innovations
where understanding of the basic Baha'i teachings was concerned, and the language used by
members to describe their religion, its purpose, and its central teachings underwent
significant development. Considering that these transformations have come roughly every
30 years and we are nearly 30 years after the last one, another major turning point is sure to
come in the upcoming decades.
The World of the Baha'i Faith examines all these developments. The volume begins with
chapters about the lives of the Bab, Baha'u'llah, 'Abdu'l-Baha, and Shoghi Effendi and the
ministry of the Universal House of Justice. Other chapters review their writings, the themes
they cover, and the teachings they emphasise.
The volume then turns to the Baha'i teachings. Part 2 reviews its theology ( concepts of
God, revelation, Manifestation, the nature of religion, and the purpose of physical reality).
Part 3 explores the oneness of humankind, human nature, diversity, the afterlife, mysticism,
and spirituality. Part 4 explores the Baha'i teachings as they relate to social change:
education, work, family life, world peace, economics, gender, sustainability, law, and
artistic expression.
Part 5 turns to the nature of the contemporary
Baha'i community: its covenant,
administrative
structure,
the role of consultation,
its culture of learning, and its
constructive approach to social change. Finally, Part 6 reviews the history of the Baha'i
community, both worldwide and by region.
Because of limitations of space or paucity of experts, there are subjects that were not
included. Much more could be said about the Baha'i Faith's approach to the various
religions, especially Islam. An article on psychology would illuminate the Baha'i concept of
the individual. Articles on ethics and human rights never materialized. The long and
remarkable-and
little researched-history
of the Baha'i Faith in the former Soviet Union is
Copyrighted material

absent from the volume. It is hoped that articles on these and other subjects can be
commissioned in the future and published elsewhere in order to fill some of the gaps.
In conceiving this volume, many practical decisions had to be made. The scholarly public
is unfamiliar with Baha'i terms, its spelling system, and its editorial conventions, but
replacing them would either distort aspects of the Faith or render the volume foreign to
internal readers. The name of the religion itself has been written variously; 'Bahaism' is an
old term that Baha'is have long regarded as inappropriate; 'Baha'i,' like 'Christian' and
'Muslim,' is an adjective or is a noun that refers to a member but is not itself the name of
the religion; 'Baha'i religion' is acceptable but is unfamiliar to members, who understand it
to aspire to be more than what is commonly understood by the term 'religion'; 'Baha'i
Faith' is by far the most common term, is standard among Baha'is, and is being used
increasingly by non-members, both academics and others. Because of its length, it is often
shortened simply to 'the Faith,' and this volume will employ that term frequently.
Another vexing issue is transliteration
of words from Arabic and Persian into the
Western languages. We have followed the standard transliteration system Baha'is have been
familiar with and have used since 1922 and which needs to be used in quotations from
existing Baha'i works anyway (as was the case earlier in the quotation from God Passes
By). It is similar to the system used by the International Journal of Middle East Studies
(IJMES) with a few modifications, including the following: accents are used instead of
macrons; digraphs are underlined for clarity; 'ayn and hamzih are represented by opening
and closing single quotation marks, respectively; two or more terms in the construct state
are affixed (e.g., baytu'l-'adl); the definite article al- is rendered in assimilated form for sun
letters; and the alif of the definite article al- is represented as a closing single quotation
mark in non-initial words of the construct state ( e.g., Kitabu'r-Rll).). To represent more
accurately the distinctive historical and linguistic nature of the texts of the Baha'i religion,
Persian and Arabic are represented by one unified set of characters. This greatly simplifies
the system, although it necessarily results in some anomalies, such as the use of v instead of
w in Arabic terms and the use of .th instead of ~ for Persian terms. It should be
remembered, however, that no transliteration system is intended to be primarily a guide to
pronunciation in English. Rather, the intention is to represent the spelling of the words in
the original language and only secondarily to provide, insofar as possible, an approximation
of the pronunciation in a Western language.
While Baha'i terms and names have been transliterated (with a few exceptions, such as
'Shoghi Effendi' and the names of other Persians that have a standard English spelling),
many Islamic terms have not, if they have a standard spelling in English (Islam,
Muhammad, Qyr'an, Imam, Shi'i, Sunni, Sufi, Shaykhi, hadith). Geographical terms also
have not been transliterated (Tehran, Baghdad, Khorasan) unless the place is small and not
normally found in a geographic dictionary.
We have followed the Baha'i standard of capitalizing the initial letters of pronouns (He,
Him, His, They, etc.) when referring to God, to a Manifestation of God (the Bab,
Baha'u'llah, Muhammad, Jesus Christ, Moses) and to 'Abdu'l-Baha. We have also capitalized
Copyrighted material

the Win the phrase 'the Baha'i Writings' to make it clear that the term is not referring to
writings by any Baha'i author, but authoritative texts (the compositions of the Bab,
Baha'u'llah, 'Abdu'l-Baha, and Shoghi Effendi). Certain technical terms start with capital
letters (Manifestation of God, Feast) on analogy with Christian terms (the Mass, the
Eucharist, etc.). We have, however, reduced the Baha'i tendency to capitalize to a
•
•
m1n1mum.
Terms like the Bible, the Q_yr' an, and the titles of specific biblical books and Q_yr' anic
chapters normally are not italicized, so similarly, the titles of works by the Bab, Baha'u'llah,
and 'Abdu'l-Baha are not (the Persian Bayan, the Kitab-i-iqan, etc.), although titles of
scriptural compilations are (Baha'i Prayers, Gleanings from the Writings of Baha'u'llah).
The Harvard system allows use of the titles of scriptural and classic works in parenthetical
citations in the text, and this volume does the same; thus, you will see (Baha'u'llah, Kitab-i-
Aqdas 10) rather than (Baha'u'llah 1992: 10). This has the advantage that the reader
immediately knows which Baha'i authoritative text is being cited; she can refer to the
references section to determine the edition and publisher or the electronic source (all
published
Baha'i
authoritative
texts
in
English
are
available
at
www.bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/).
Individual letters by Shoghi Effendi or the
Universal House of Justice that are published without titles are cited by date, however.
'Shoghi Effendi' is alphabetised under S rather than E because 'Effendi' is a title similar to
'sir' or 'esquire' and is not his last name, which is rarely used in publications.
This volume would not have been possible without the able assistance and wise advice of
many people. Omid Ghaemmaghami recommended several of the authors and assisted
with issues of transliteration.
Moojan Momen helped resolve some vexing scholarly
questions. William Collins, Wendy M. Heller, Wendi Momen, Barney Leith, Brendan
McNamara, and Peter Hulme gave editorial advice. Tim and Anne Perry spent hours on the
photographs included in the volume. The authors of the various chapters poured their
experience and creativity into the work and produced a volume that should prove of great
value to academics and laypersons alike. At Routledge, Rebecca Shillabeer Clintworth,
Amy Doffegnies, Kevin Selmes, Chris Mathews, and Denise File oversaw the project from
conception to completion and answered unnumbered questions. The Wilmette Institute
graciously gave me time away from my official duties as director so that I could focus on
this work. Finally, my family-my wife, Mana Derakhshani, and my children, Lua and Nabil
Derakhshani-Stockman-patiently
endured hours when I was not available for them. My
gratitude to all of them, who made possible the privilege of putting this volume together, is
boundless.
Reference
Shoghi Effendi. (1974) God Passes By, Wilmette, IL: Baha'i Publishing Trust.
Copyrighted material

PARTl
Leadership and authoritative texts
Copyrighted material

OVERVIEW
The Central Figures, the institutions of the Baha'i
Faith, and the Covenant
Shahin Vafai
DOI: 10.4324/9780429027772-3
This chapter offers an overview of the Central Figures and institutions of the Baha'i Faith
from its inception in 1844 until today. The Baha'i Faith is based on the teachings of three
Central Figures: the Bab (1819-1850), Baha'u'llah (1817-1892), and 'Abdu'l-Baha (1844-
1921). Their successors were the two principal institutions of the Baha'i Administrative
Order-the
Guardianship, which was occupied by Shoghi Effendi (1897-1957) from 1921
until 1957, and the Universal House of Justice, which, since its establishment in 1963, has
been the Head of the Baha'i Faith. In addition to exploring the claims, authority, and
functions of these Figures and institutions, the discussion that follows briefly summarizes
their history and achievements. Also examined in this chapter is the Baha'i concept of the
Covenant, the arrangements described in Baha'i texts for the succession of authority and
the means for the maintenance of the unity and integrity of the Baha'i Faith. Subsequent
chapters examine the lives and writings of the Central Figures and Shoghi Effendi as well as
the establishment of the Universal House of Justice and its communications.
The Bab
The first of the Baha'i Faith's Central Figures was Siyyid 'Ali-Mul:iammad, a native of
Shiraz, Iran, who came to be known as the Bab ('the Gate'). In the 1840s, the Bab, a
merchant in His twenties, advanced the twofold claim of being the Mouthpiece of God on
earth and the Herald of One greater than Himself. As to the former claim, He asserted that
He was a Prophet or 'Manifestation of God', like Moses, Jesus, Muhammad, and other
Copyrighted material

Founders of the world's great religions. The Bab, moreover, averred that He was the long-
awaited promised one, in particular, the Qa'im and the Mahdi awaited by Muslims.
The Bab's explanations of the station, functions, and relationship of the Manifestations of
God laid the doctrinal foundations of the Baha'i Faith, revealing the nature of His own
claim and how He related to His followers. The Bab taught that God is inaccessible to
humanity and that the only path to knowing God is recognizing His Manifestation.
Therefore, whoever recognizes the Manifestation of God 'hath known all that is true and
right, and hath attained all that is good and seemly' (The Bab, Selections, 11). He also
declared that the Manifestations did not present conflicting approaches to God; rather, They
have appeared in the world as part of one spiritual process, like the repeated appearance of
the same sun: 'The process of the rise and setting of the Sun of Truth will thus indefinitely
continue-a process that hath had no beginning and will have no end' (The Bab, Selections,
106).
In addition to declaring Himself a Manifestation of God, the Bab maintained that He was
the forerunner of, or 'the Gate' to, One greater than Himself. This figure, whom the Bab
referred to as 'Him Whom God shall make manifest', would have the mission of
inaugurating an era of righteousness and peace. The writings of the Bab are replete with
references to 'Him Whom God shall make manifest'. Many references in the Bab's writings
implied the fairly imminent appearance of Him Whom God shall make manifest, such as
nine or nineteen years after the time of the Bab.
The Bab's claims evoked an immediate response from His countrymen. Within a few
years of the declaration of His mission, thousands from all classes of Persian society,
including the Shah's emissary (Siyyid Ya}:iyay-i-Darabi), who had been delegated to
investigate the Bab's assertions, had been won over to the Bab's religion. Threatened by the
Bab's growing movement, the organized forces of church and state quickly arose in
opposition to Him and His followers. Supported by the Muslim religious hierarchy, Persian
authorities arrested and exiled the Bab and incarcerated Him for over three years. They also
took the life of nearly every one of the leading figures in the Babi community. When such
actions did not have the desired effect, Mirza Taqi Khan, the Grand Vizir of Na$iri' d-Din
Sh.ah, ordered that the Bab be put to death. The order was carried out in July 1850 in the
city of Tabriz, where a firing squad publicly executed the Bab before thousands of
onlookers. In the years immediately preceding and following the Bab's death, some 20,000
of His followers were killed for their religious beliefs.
Beyond the influence the Bab had on the lives of thousands of Persians during and
immediately after His ministry, who accepted His claims and were even willing to suffer for
His Cause, His long-term impact may be measured in other ways. The Bab left a permanent
legacy through His extensive writings, comprising approximately five million words, which
continue to be studied more than a century and half after His death. The continuing
influence of the Bab is most prominently seen in the millions of followers of the Baha'i
Faith worldwide who regard Him as one of the two Founders of their religion; study His
life and teachings; recite His prayers; annually commemorate His birth, declaration, and
martyrdom; and pay homage at His Shrine. The bicentenary of the birth of the Bab, which
Copyrighted material

Aqdas, para. 174). In the Kitab-i-'Ahd (the Book of the Covenant), Baha'u'llah quoted the
Kitab-i-Aqdas and made explicit what had been implicit in the Kitab-i-Aqdas: namely,
identifying His eldest son, 'Abbas Effendi (later known as 'Abdu'l-Baha or 'Servant of
Baha'), as the figure alluded to in the Kitab-i-Aqdas (Baha'u'llah, Tablets of Baha'u'llah,
221). In yet another work, in reference to 'Abdu'l-Baha, Baha'u'llah emphasized: 'Whoso
turneth towards Him hath turned towards God, and whoso turneth away from Him hath
turned away from My Beauty, hath repudiated My Proof, and transgressed against Me'
(Shoghi Effendi, World Order of Baha 'u'llah, 135).
As detailed further later in this chapter, Baha'u'llah also established in the Kitab-i-Aqdas
and in His other writings an 'Order'-a
system of governance-that
had the potential to
administer His Faith for centuries into the future. Through His appointment of 'Abdu'l-Baha
as His successor and authorized interpreter, Baha'u'llah established a Covenant with His
followers that was intended to preserve the unity and integrity of His Faith. This Covenant
was perpetuated by 'Abdu'l-Baha through the Administrative Order that Baha'u'llah had
created and whose features 'Abdu'l-Baha would elaborate. The essence of the Covenant is,
according to authoritative Baha'i texts, the continuation of divine guidance after the passing
of Baha'u'llah through the presence in the world of an institution to which His followers
could turn and which can state the will of God. Whereas the absence of a clear, explicit, and
written designation of the successor of the Manifestation of God has in the past led to
dissensions, controversies, and schisms, Baha'u'llah sought to prevent that situation from
occurring in His religion by instituting the Covenant. Thus, for followers of Baha'u'llah, the
authoritative
Baha'i texts determine the questions of succession, interpretation,
and
administration. Because of the clarity of those texts, if an individual attempts to claim
authority, create division, or deviate from the original teachings, it is recognizable by the
community of followers and can be remedied (see chapter 34 on the Covenant). The
efficacy of these arrangements is evidenced by the fact that nearly 175 years after its
founding and despite occasional attempts to create division within the Baha'i Faith, it has
maintained its unity-a historic achievement given the diversity of humanity represented
within its pale.
In 1892, after nearly forty years of exile and, at times, imprisonment, Baha'u'llah passed
away near 'Akka, where His remains were interred. His burial site became a shrine-a
location of pilgrimage for His followers and the point to which they turn when reciting
their daily prayers. In spite of the severe restrictions imposed on Him, He had attracted to
His religion many thousands from various races, ethnicities, and religions in more than a
dozen countries. Baha'u'llah had also left behind the equivalent of one hundred volumes of
His writings, which comprise nearly seven million words. Through these writings as well as
the Covenant and the Administrative
Order He instituted, Baha'u'llah had laid the
groundwork for a worldwide community of adherents, who within a century of His passing
would number in the millions and be found in nearly every country in the world.
Copyrighted material

'Abdu'l-Baha
The third of the Central Figures of the Baha'i Faith was 'Abdu'l-Baha, who, unlike the Bab
and Baha'u'llah, was not a Manifestation of God. However, He held a unique position as
Baha'u'llah' s designated successor, the authorized interpreter of Baha'u'llah' s words, and
the exemplar of Baha'u'llah teachings. As 'Abdu'l-Baha Himself explained,
To ward off ... dissensions ... and prevent any person from creating a division
or sect ... Baha'u'llah ... appointed a central authoritative Personage, declaring
Him to be the expounder of the Book.
('Abdu'l-Baha, Promulgation, 538)
According to Baha'i texts, the authoritative interpretations of 'Abdu'l-Baha are divinely
guided statements of what the Word of God means.
'Abdu'l-Baha led the worldwide Baha'i community from 1892 until His passing in 1921.
Like Baha'u'llah, 'Abdu'l-Baha had for much of His life remained under government-
mandated restrictions that limited His movement until 1908, when He and other religious
and political prisoners in the Ottoman Empire were released. Soon after, He embarked
upon a three-year tour through Egypt, Europe, and North America to promote
Baha'u'llah's teachings. In the course of His travels, He taught His Father's Faith in private
interviews and in hundreds of public talks before audiences that, at times, exceeded a
thousand people. In these presentations, 'Abdu'l-Baha explained Baha'u'llah's principles of
the unity of humankind, the independent investigation of the truth, the harmony of science
and religion, the oneness of religions, the equality of men and women, and the realization
of world peace, among others. These talks were delivered in churches, synagogues,
universities, civic gatherings, and other public fora. While in the United States, 'Abdu'l-
Baha spoke about race unity at the fourth annual conference of the National Association for
the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). Through these travels in the West,
correspondence with friends and sympathizers in that region of the world, and the visits of
Western pilgrims to the Holy Land, 'Abdu'l-Baha was able to establish the Baha'i Faith in
North America and Europe.
'Abdu'l-Baha's legacy includes other accomplishments. In the latter part of His life, He
oversaw the construction, on Mount Carmel in Haifa, of a shrine for the Bab, whose
remains His followers had preserved and concealed for more than half a century after His
execution in 1850. Moreover, through 'Abdu'l-Baha's encouragement, Baha'is spread their
religion to Europe, North America, the Far East, and Australasia. He guided the
development of Baha'i communities in these lands through thousands of personal letters He
wrote to Baha'is, often in response to their communications. He directed the local Baha'i
community of a few thousand believers in Ashkhabat, in Russian Turkmenistan, in building
the first House of Worship in the Baha'i world. Called the 'Ma,iliriqu'l-Arlhkar' (the
dawning place of the mention of God) and combining the elements of worship and service,
Copyrighted material

this structure would provide a model for Houses of Worship that Baha'is would build
around the world in succeeding decades.
The written works of 'Abdu'l-Baha comprise several million words. These writings,
which, along with the writings of the Bab and Baha'u'llah, constitute the sacred scriptures
of the Baha'i Faith, provide interpretation, explanation, and application of Baha'u'llah's
teachings. His most important work is likely His Will and Testament, which perpetuated
Baha'u'llah's Covenant by clarifying and expanding upon the institutions of the Baha'i
Administrative Order. Among His other important works are Some Answered Questions
and The Secret of Divine Civilization.
Whether in encouraging interracial gatherings (and even interracial marriage) while in
the United States, in urging interreligious harmony in the Holy Land, or in advocating for
the harmony of the East and the West on multiple continents, 'Abdu'l-Baha sought to give
practical expression to Baha'u'llah's teaching of the oneness of humanity. The effects of
'Abdu'l-Baha's life and teachings in promoting unity were seen in the diversity of the many
thousands of devotees who, during His life, had committed themselves to advocating for
those same principles in thirty-five countries around the world. When He passed away in
Haifa in late 1921, 'Abdu'l-Baha's funeral was attended by no fewer than ten thousand
people of every class, race, and religion in the land, including dignitaries of the Jewish,
Christian, Muslim, and Druze communities, who paid tribute to His accomplishments in
advancing concord, peace, and service to humanity (Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, 312-13;
Star of the West 1922: 259-67).
The Baha'i Administrative Order
Among 'Abdu'l-Baha's most significant achievements was guiding Baha'is in the erection of
the Administrative Order that Baha'u'llah had established. In the Kitab-i-Aqdas, Baha'u'llah
had written:
The world's equilibrium hath been upset through the vibrating influence of this
most great, this new World Order. Mankind's ordered life hath been
revolutionized through the agency of this unique, this wondrous System-the
like of which mortal eyes have never witnessed.
(Baha'u'llah, Kitab-i-Aqdas, para. 181)
In that same book and in His other writings, Baha'u'llah had identified the elements of this
Order. He had explicitly referred to the institution of the 'House of Justice': 'It is incumbent
upon the Trustees of the House of Justice to take counsel together regarding those things
which have not outwardly been revealed in the Book, and to enforce that which is agreeable
to them' (Baha'u'llah, Tablets, 68; Kitab-i-Aqdas, para. 42). Moreover,
Copyrighted material

establishing twenty-six national Spiritual Assemblies and over a thousand local Spiritual
Assemblies. Baha'is resided in over three thousand localities and had a worldwide
population that probably numbered a few hundred thousand.
During his ministry, Shoghi Effendi also developed the international centre of the Baha'i
Faith in 'Akka and Haifa, laying out formal gardens around the Shrine of Baha'u'llah,
building the superstructure of the Shrine of the Bab, and erecting the International Archives
Building, where original writings and artifacts related to the Central Figures of the Baha'i
Faith would be maintained. Finally, Shoghi Effendi educated Baha'is about the Baha'i
teachings through his interpretations and explanations of the writings of Baha'u'llah, the
Bab, and 'Abdu'l-Baha; his writing of God Passes By-a history of the first century of the
Baha'i Faith-and his translations into English of a number of major works of Baha'u'llah
from the original Arabic and Persian. Shoghi Effendi's writings do not form part of the
Baha'i sacred writings, but they are authoritative statements that continue to guide Baha'is.
'Abdu'l-Baha's Will and Testament had specified the conditions under which Shoghi
Effendi could appoint a successor Guardian. Shoghi Effendi's successor had to be from
among the 'Agh~an' (Baha'u'llah's male descendants) who possessed certain spiritual
qualities. His appointment was to be confirmed by a group of nine Hands of the Cause-
Baha'is appointed by the Guardian for the purpose of protecting and propagating the Baha'i
Faith. But by the time of Shoghi Effendi's passing, there were no male descendants of
Baha'u'llah who could be considered for appointment as Guardian; Shoghi Effendi had not
had any children, and there were no other eligible descendants. Therefore, adhering to the
provisions set forth in the Will and Testament of 'Abdu'l-Baha, Shoghi Effendi did not
appoint a successor, and the line of Guardians ended with him. Significantly, Baha'u'llah
had in the Kitab-i-Aqdas anticipated the institution of the Guardianship (with a reference to
the 'Agh~an') and envisaged the possibility of a break in the line of the Agh~an (Baha'u'llah,
Kitab-i-Aqdas, para. 42).
The ten-year international teaching plan that Shoghi Effendi had initiated was to run from
1953 to 1963. Following Shoghi Effendi's passing in November 1957, the Hands of the Cause,
who numbered
twenty-seven,
directed, with the support of the national Spiritual
Assemblies, the affairs of the worldwide Baha'i community in their capacity as 'Chief
Stewards of Baha'u'llah's embryonic World Commonwealth', a designation Shoghi Effendi
had conferred upon them. By 1963, the Baha'i community's execution of its ten-year plan
produced an increase in the number of national Spiritual Assemblies to fifty-six, the
number of local Spiritual Assemblies to over three thousand, and the number of localities
where Baha'is resided to over eleven thousand worldwide. One of the most important
decisions made by the Hands of the Cause was calling for the election of the Universal
House of Justice to take place in 1963. The Hands asked that they themselves not be voted
for.
The Universal House of Justice
Copyrighted material

of the Baha'i Writings and promoted Baha'i principles related to peace and religious unity.
This includes its issuance of major statements, such as 'The Promise of World Peace' as well
as its message on elimination of religious prejudice addressed to the world's religious
leaders.
Since 1996, the Universal House of Justice has led the Baha'i world community-now
made up of several million followers-in promoting the development of local communities
through activities open to the public that focus on the spiritual education of children, the
moral empowerment
of young people, the exploration and application of spiritual
principles by adults, and the collective worship in devotional gatherings for those of all
ages. However, perhaps the greater accomplishment of the Baha'i community under the
leadership of the Universal House of Justice has been to demonstrate that its community-
building activities can be established in every corner of the world and can appeal to peoples
of all racial, ethnic, national, and religious backgrounds. Through such activities, the Baha'i
world community is seeking to demonstrate that Baha'u'llah's vision of the unity of
humankind, as set forth in His writings and as safeguarded by His Covenant, can be a
practical reality.
References and further reading
2002 Britannica Book of the Year. (2002) Chicago: Encyclopedia Britannica.
'Abdu'l-Baha. (1990) The Secret of Divine Civilization, Wilmette, IL: Baha'i Publishing
Trust.
---.
(2007) Promulgation of Universal Peace, Wilmette, IL: Baha'i Publishing Trust.
---.
(2014) Some Answered Questions, Haifa: Baha'i World Centre.
---.
(2013) Will and Testament of 'Abdu'l-Baha, Wilmette, IL: Baha'i Publishing Trust.
'The Ascension of Abdul-Baha'. (1922) Star of the West, 12:17, January 19.
Bab, The. (1976) Selections from the Writings of the Bab, Haifa: Baha'i World Centre.
The Baha 'iFaith, 1844-1963: Information Statistical & Comparative (n.d.) Israel.
Baha'u'llah. (1950) The Kitab-i-iqan: The Book of Certitude, Wilmette, IL: Baha'i
Publishing Trust.
---.
(1976) Gleanings from the Writings of Baha'u'llah, Wilmette, IL: Baha'i Publishing
Trust.
---.
(1988) Tablets of Baha'u'llah, Wilmette, IL: Baha'i Publishing Trust.
---.
(1990) The Hidden Words of Baha'u'llah, Wilmette, IL: Baha'i Publishing Trust.
---.
(1992) The Kitab-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book, Haifa: Baha'i World Centre.
---.
(2002) The Summons of the Lord of Hosts, Haifa: Baha'i World Centre.
---.
(2018) The Call of the Divine Beloved, Haifa: Baha'i World Centre.
Balyuzi, H. M. (1973) The Bab, Oxford: George Ronald.
---.
(1980) Baha'u'llah, Oxford: George Ronald.
Copyrighted material

Day, M. V. (2017) Journey to a Mountain: The Story of the Shrine of the Bab, vol. 1,
Oxford: George Ronald.
'Delegates cast ballots to elect Universal House of Justice'. (2018) Baha'i World News
Service, 29 April, https://news.bahai.org/story/1256/.
Hogensen, K. J. (2013) Lighting the Western Sky: The Hearst Pilgrimage and the
Establishment of the Baha'i Faith in the West, Oxford: George Ronald.
Momen,
M. (2019) 'Bahai sacred
texts',
British Library Website, bl.uk/sacred-
texts/ articles/b ahai-sacred-texts.
Shoghi Effendi. (1968) Baha'i Administration, Wilmette, IL: Baha'i Publishing Trust.
Shoghi Effendi, ed. (1953) The Dawn-Breakers: Nabil's Narrative of the Early Days of the
Baha'i Revelation, New York: Baha'i Publishing Committee.
---.
(1991) The World Order of Baha'u'llah, Wilmette, IL: Baha'i Publishing Trust.
---.
(1995) God Passes By, Wilmette, IL: Baha'i Publishing Trust.
Smith, P. and Momen M. (1989) 'The Baha'i Faith 1957-1988: A Survey of Contemporary
Developments', Religion, 19: 63-91.
Stockman, R. (2012a) 'Abdu'l-Baha in America, Wilmette, IL: Baha'i Publishing Trust.
---.
(2012b) The Baha'i Faith: A Guide for the Perplexed, London: Bloomsbury
Academic.
Universal House of Justice. (1972) Constitution of the Universal House of Justice, Haifa:
Baha'i World Centre.
---.
(1985) The Promise of World Peace, Wilmette, IL: Baha'i Publishing Trust.
---.
(1996) Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986, Wilmette, IL:
Baha'i Publishing Trust.
---.
(2001) The Institution of the Counsellors, Baha'i World Centre.
---.
(2002) 'To The World's
Religious
Leaders',
Baha'i Reference Library,
www.bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/the-universal-house-of-
justice/messages/20020401_001/1#024035169.
Copyrighted material

THE LIFE OF THE BAB
Omid Ghaemmaghami 1
DOI: 10.4324/9780429027772-4
Siyyid Mirza 'Ali-Mul:iammad-i-fil!irazi, known to history as the Bab (meaning 'the Gate'),
is recognized by Baha'is as an independent Manifestation of God, the Founder of the Babi
religion, the Forerunner of Baha'u'llah, and-together
with Baha'u'llah-one
of the twin
Founders of the Baha'i Faith. This chapter provides a biographical sketch of the Bab's life. A
separate chapter is dedicated to His writings and teachings.
The family and early life of the Bab
At a time of social and political upheaval, the Bab was born in the province of Fars, in the
southern region of Persia (now Iran), on 1 Mul:iarram 1235 (20 October 1819), though it
merits noting that at times in His writings He calculates the beginning of His life from the
day He was conceived rather than the day of His birth (Saiedi 2011: 182-183). The Bab was
born to a family of merchants who traced their ancestry to the Prophet Muhammad (d. 632)
from the lineage of Imam Husayn (d. 680). The Bab's father, Siyyid Mu}:iammad-Ric;la, died
before the Bab could develop any memories of him (Afnan 2008: 9, n. 39). After the passing
of His father, the Bab was reared by His mother, Fatimih Bagum (d. 1881) (Rouhani Ma'ani
2008: 3-25), and one of her brothers, I:Iaji Mirza Siyyid 'Ali (d. 1850). An Ethiopian servant
in the household, named Mubarak, is also extolled by the Bab for having contributed to
training and nurturing Him in His childhood (Saiedi 2011: 182).
As attested in a number of anecdotes, the Bab was a gentle, precocious, and gifted child
who displayed qualities of spiritual and intellectual excellence (Lambden 1986: 2-9; Amanat
2005: 110-121; Afnan 2000: 30-37). Owing to His acumen and wisdom, the Bab was taken
out of the traditional primary school He attended (Mazind.arani 1938: 193). The Bab had
some consciousness of His unique station as a Manifestation of God from a young age. In
the Qayyumu'l-Asma', the first major work authored by the Bab after His declaration, He
states that He was aware of the truth of His station as a child (Afnan 2008: 9 n. 38). In the
Copyrighted material

(The Bab, Selections 12)
The declaration of the Bab and his pilgrimage to Mecca
The nineteenth century was a period of messianic expectation in many parts of the world.
In the Shi'ih Muslim heartlands of Persia and Iraq, the year 1844 marked a thousand lunar
years since the alleged disappearance of the Twelfth Imam, who is identified by Shi'ih
Muslims as the Qa'im (the promised messianic deliverer of Shi'ih Islam). As such,
expectations of the Imam's return in Persia and Iraq were heightened (Amanat 2005: 70-
105). A few hours before sunset on 22 May 1844, the Bab encountered a religious student
named Mul:iammad I:Iusayn-i-Bumru'i, who came to be known as Mulla I:Iusayn (d. 1849),
at the Darvazih Kazirun in the south of Shiraz (Afnan 2000: 61). Mulla I:Iusayn had been a
student of the recently deceased Siyyid Ka?im-i-Ramti in Karbala for some nine to eleven
years. The Bab had months earlier been apprised of the passing of Siyyid Kaz;im-i-Ramti: in
one of His earliest writings, He states that He learned the news of the death of Siyyid
Kaz;im-i-Ramti in a dream in which the land of Karbala disintegrated into pieces, hovered in
the air, and presented itself before the house of the Bab in Shiraz (quoted in Lawson 1987:
76; Amanat 2005: 168) (Figure 2.1).
Figure 2.1 The house of the Bab in Shiraz, Iran, destroyed in 1979.
Source: Baha'i World News Servjce.
Copyng led n1atGr I

a tablet addressed to the Shah, that others in the royal court, out of jealousy, ignorance,
greed, or spite, prevented Mulla I:Iusayn from delivering the Bab's epistle to him:
I despatched a messenger and a book unto thee, that thou mightest act towards
the Cause of Him Who is the Testimony of God as befitteth the station of thy
sovereignty. But inasmuch as dark, dreadful and dire calamity had been
irrevocably ordained by the Will of God, the book was not submitted to thy
presence, through the intervention of such as regard themselves the well-
wishers of the government.
(The Bab, Selections 13)
Upon receiving a report from Mulla I:Iusayn about his travels, in the fall of 1844, the Bab,
accompanied by Qyddus and Mubarak, His Ethiopian servant, 2 embarked on a journey to
Arabia to undertake the hajj. In Mecca, the Bab by one account publicly announced that He
was the promised one of Islam ( other accounts suggest He only told selected people) and
addressed a letter to the custodian of the Kaaba. Throughout the journey, the Bab dictated
numerous treatises and sermons. On the return trip to Persia, from the port of Mak.ha
(Mocha in present-day Yemen) He addressed a letter to His uncle and a tablet to His
followers, in which He exhorted them to proclaim His Cause (Afnan 2013: 182-183, 192-
193). He subsequently
sojourned
in Masqat
(Muscat in present-day
Oman) for
approximately six weeks as a guest of the Sultan. During this time, He addressed numerous
tablets to ecclesiastical leaders in Iraq, Persia, and Masqat.
To fulfill Shi'ih messianic prophecies about the appearance of the Qa'im, the Bab had
originally intended to travel from Mecca to Karbila in order to proclaim His Cause. During
His pilgrimage to Mecca, word reached the Bab that Mulla 'Aliy-i-Bastami (the second
person to profess belief in Him)-whom
the Bab had sent to Iraq with a copy of the
Qayyumu'l-Asma' to deliver a proclamatory message from the Bab, without divulging His
identity, to the foremost Shi'ih cleric of the time and to share His writings with the students
of the deceased Siyyid K~im-i-Rafil}ti-had been rebuked, arrested, tried, condemned, and
banished to Istanbul by a joint tribunal of Sunni and Shi'ih 'ulama. The tribunal's edict
denounced the Qayyumu'l-Asma' as a heretical text and charged that its author deserved to
be killed because He claimed to have the ability to reveal divine verses. The Bab's desire
that no further sadness, conflict, or dissension ensue, and His concern that His followers not
be harmed as a result of injustice and tyranny, motivated Him to change His plan and
return to Persia. From Masqat, He instructed His followers who had gathered in Karbala to
proceed to Isfahan (Afnan 2000: 183-186; Amanat 2005: 252; Momen 2018: 5). Returning to
Bushehr in early June 1845 on the last leg of His journey home, He instructed Qyddus to
travel to Shiraz ahead of Him and begin sharing His message in that city. The first person-
after the Letters of the Living-to embrace the Cause of the Bab in Shiraz was the Bab's
aforementioned uncle I:Iaji Mirza Siyyid 'Ali, who was later executed for his adherence to
the message of his nephew ([Zarandi] 1932: 75). Qyddus and another prominent early
believer named Mulla Sadiq-i-Khurasani were subsequently arrested, tortured, and expelled
Copyrighted material

from the city by order of the Governor of Fars, I:Iusayn Khan, who summoned the Bab
from Bushehr to answer for the commotion and excitement His message had aroused in
Shiraz.
The return of the Bab to Shiraz and his stay in Isfahan
Upon the Bab's arrival in Shiraz in the summer of 1845, He was detained and brought
before I:Iusayn Khan. The governor reproached the Bab and released Him to the custody of
His uncle I:Iaji Mirza Siyyid 'Ali, but not before commanding his attendant to strike the Bab
in the face. In His writings, the Bab laments the abuse He suffered at the hands of I:Iusayn
Khan and his numerous attempts to suppress His message: 'While I was in Shiraz the
indignities which befell Me at the hands of its wicked and depraved Governor waxed so
grievous that if thou wert acquainted with but a tithe thereof, thou wouldst deal him
retributive justice' (The Bab, Selections 13). The Bab was subsequently asked to visit one of
the central mosques of the city to clarify His position and calm the excitement of the
masses. Thus, during Friday prayers, the Bab publicly affirmed His faith in God, the Prophet
Muhammad, and the Imams and disavowed any claim to being the gate, representative, or
intermediary of the Hidden Imam ([Zarandi] 1932: 154). In doing so, the Bab was not only
implicitly rejecting superstitions associated with the Hidden Imam-an
imaginary figure
believed to have entered occultation in the ninth century-but
also hinting that His station
was far greater than that of an Imam or a representative to the Imam. This clarification of
His position had the opposite effect of what the governor intended. His tone, conduct,
behaviour, and calm demeanour before a partly hostile audience impressed many of those
in attendance and encouraged others in Shiraz to inquire further about His position and
become adherents (Fayc;li 1987: 160-169).
The proclamation efforts of the Bab's disciples throughout Persia excited further interest
in the Bab. It was at this time that two notable Muslim scholars embraced His message:
Siyyid Yal).yay-i-Darabi (d. 1850) and Mulla Mul_iammad-'Aliy-i-Zanjani (d. 1851). The
former, associated with the Qajar royal court, was sent by Mul_iammad Shah to investigate
the claims of the Bab. In the course of three interviews, the Bab answered the questions the
proud scholar posed to Him and, in response to a wish Dara.bi held in his heart but had not
voiced, the Bab wrote a voluminous commentary on the shortest Surih of the Qyr'an.
Astonished by the interpretations, the speed at which the Bab wrote, the force of His style,
and His mellifluous voice as He chanted the verses, Dara.bi resigned his post at the royal
court and embraced the Cause of the Bab. The Bab surnamed him Val).id (meaning 'unique')
(Mazindarani 2008: 231, 361-375; Mazindarani n.d.: 87-90; Rabbani 2006: 17-41; Ahdieh and
Chapman 2013: 53-57).
The second Muslim scholar, Mulla Mu}_iammad-'Aliy-i-Zanjani, was a highly erudite cleric
and skilled orator who served as one of the foremost religious authorities in the northwest
city of Zanjan. Upon hearing about the Bab, he sent a representative to Shiraz to investigate
Copyrighted material

the matter and receive a copy of the Qayyumu'l-Asma' or a letter from the Bab. Witnessing
the Bab's 'overwhelming
authority and knowledge'
(Walbridge 1996: 345), Zanjani
embraced His message and was surnamed I:Iujjat (meaning 'proof') (Mazindarani 2008:
142-148; Walbridge 1996: 345-350).
The unabated animosity of I:Iusayn Khan and a cholera outbreak in Shiraz caused the
eventual transfer of the Bab from Shiraz to Isfahan in September 1846. Upon arriving in
Isfahan, the Bab stayed for forty days at the home of one of the main prelates of the city.
During this time, the governor, Manu.£hihr Khan, the Mu'tamidu'd-Dawlih
(d. 1847),
investigated and embraced the Cause of the Bab and offered Him his protection. When a
number of clerics issued an edict condemning the Bab to death, Manurnihr Khan
surreptitiously concealed the Bab in his home, until his death in March 1847. In His
writings, the Bab noted that
the Mu'tamidu'd-Dawlih
... became aware of the truth of the Cause and
manifested exemplary servitude and devotion to His chosen ones. When some
of the ignorant people in his city arose to stir up sedition, he defended the
divine Truth by affording Me protection for a while in the privacy of the
Governor's residence.
(The Bab, Selections 14-15)
The Shah of Persia, now curious about the youth who had converted one of his most
trusted governors and one of the most respected clerics associated with his court, desired
to meet the Bab and ordered that He be brought to the capital.
The Bab in Azerbaijan
Fearful that a meeting with Mu}:iammad Shah might influence the monarch and thus
diminish the influence he exerted over the Shah as his spiritual guide, the grand vizier, I:Iaji
Mirza Aqasi (d. 1849), convinced the Shah not to bring the Bab to the capital but rather to
assign Him to a fortress reserved for criminals in Maku in the mountains of Azerbaijan near
Persia's border with the Ottoman Empire. The death of Manu.£hihr Khan in March 1847,
therefore, precipitated the transfer of the Bab, a month later, from Isfahan to the
northwestern reaches of Persia. After stops in Kashan and Kulayn, the Bab travelled via
Tabriz and arrived in Maku in the summer of 1847 (Figure 2.2).
Copyrighted material

Figure 2.2 The fortress of Ma-Ku.
Source: Baha'i World News Service.
- -
-~
'
,
Ji'
~
,J
•
..
~
.t:. I/:
.,
The conditions of the fortress were described by the Bab in a letter addressed to
Muhammad Shah:
.
-
I swear by the Most Great Lord! Wert thou to be told in what place I dwell, the
first person to have mercy on Me would be thyself. In the heart of a mountain
is a fortress [Maku] ... the inmates of which are confined to two guards and
four dogs. Picture, then, My plight ... I swear by the truth of God! Were he
who hath been willing to treat Me in such a manner to know Who it is Whom
he hath so treated, he, verily, would never in his life be happy. Nay-I, verily,
acquaint thee with the truth of the matter-it is as if he hath imprisoned all the
Prophets, and all the men of truth and all the chosen ones.
(The Bab, Selections 14)
The decision to incarcerate the Bab in Maku was, after His declaration, the most critical
turning point in His life. During the approximately nine months He was imprisoned in
Maku, the Bab declared His true station as the promised Qa'im and abrogated the social
laws of Islam. He affirmed that out of compassion, God had decreed that the Bab enjoin the
observance of the laws of the Qyr'an in His earlier writings-this, so that the people might
not be seized with perturbation by a new book and a new revelation and might regard His
Faith as similar to their own. He further stated that earlier in His ministry, He did not wish
His identity to be divulged and gave instructions that His name and true station be
deliberately concealed behind a veil of ambiguity on account of the inability of the masses
to understand the independent nature of His message and the potency of His Cause. Even
Copyng led n1atGr I

His use of the title 'Gate' was meant to lessen the impact of His otherwise unequivocal
claim to be a Manifestation of God. He wrote:
Consider the manifold favours vouchsafed by the Promised One, and the
effusions of His bounty which have pervaded the concourse of the followers of
Islam to enable them to attain unto salvation. Indeed observe how He Who
representeth the origin of creation, He Who is the Exponent of the verse, 'I, in
very truth, am God', identified Himself as the Gate [Bab] for the advent of the
promised Qa'im, a descendant of Mul:iammad, and in His first Book enjoined
the observance of the laws of the Qyr'an, so that the people might not be
seized with perturbation by reason of a new Book and a new Revelation and
might regard His Faith as similar to their own, perchance they would not turn
away from the Truth and ignore the thing for which they had been called into
being.
(The Bab, Selections 119)
In Maku, the Bab laid down the fundamental laws and precepts of His dispensation in His
most important works: the Persian Bayan and the shorter Arabic Bayan. Throughout His
writings in this final phase of His ministry, the Bab prophesied the imminent appearance of
a figure He had previously referred to in His writings using Islamic terminology, as, among
other things, 'the Remnant of God,' but He now began to call 'Him Whom God shall make
manifest.' Notably, the Bab did not appoint an interpreter to His writings or a successor;
rather, He conditioned His laws and teachings on their acceptance by Him Whom God shall
make manifest. The Persian Bayan, in fact, can be considered a eulogy of Him Whom God
shall make manifest, rather than a code of laws designed to be implemented by societies
and institutions in the future (Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By 25).
In March 1848, Mulla I:Iusayn visited the Bab for nine days. The Bab instructed Mulla
I:Iusayn to travel and visit the Babis throughout northwest Persia and then proceed to
Mazandaran to find 'the Hidden Treasure,' an allusion to Mirza I:Iusayn-i-'Aliy-i-Nuri, whom
Mulla I:Iusayn subsequently met. The next month, I:Iaji Mirza Aqasi, pressured by the
Russian Minister in Tehran (Momen 1981: 72) and alarmed by the growing popularity of the
Bab and the access He enjoyed to the outside world, ordered that the Bab be transferred
from the fortress of Maku to the bleak and lonely mountain fortress of Chihriq some two
hundred kilometres to the south. In Chihriq, to which the Bab refers in His writings as the
'Grievous Mountain,' the Bab was subjected for over two years to a confinement that was
even harsher than that which He experienced in Maku.
In June 1848, a few months after the Bab arrived in Chihriq, some of His followers, at the
direction of Mirza I:Iusayn-i-'Aliy-i-Nuri, convened a historic conference in the hamlet of
Bada.s..ht in northern Persia to implement the Bayan, announce the abrogation of Islamic law
and a formal break from the traditions of the past, and proclaim the inauguration of a new
religious dispensation, symbolized famously by the dramatic act of Tahirih's public
unveiling. The conference was of momentous importance because it marked the conscious
Copyrighted material

break that many Ba.bis made with past traditions. At approximately the same time, the Bab
was taken from Chihriq to Tabriz to face trial for apostasy before a group of high-ranking
clerics. En route to Tabriz, the Bab sojourned for ten days in Urmia, where the only known
portrait of Him was sketched by a local artist. 3 At the trial in Tabriz, when asked about His
station in the presence of the Crown Prince and before the prominent clerics of the city, the
Bab declared that He was the promised one of Islam, thus stating openly and publicly what
up until then He had stated implicitly-though
at times also explicitly-in writing to His
disciples and detractors: namely, that His station was that of a new, independent
Manifestation of God with the ability to write verses and establish laws, to abrogate the
laws of Islam, and to begin a new religious cycle. In support of His claims, the Bab calmly
began to utter verses yet was interrupted with demeaning and unrelated questions that
derived from traditional conceptions of knowledge. He refused to dignify the insolence of
the clerics (MacEoin 2009: 409-450; Kashshafi 2021). At the conclusion of the trial, the Bab
was condemned to suffer corporal punishment and sustained wounds on His feet and face.
Before being taken back to Chihriq, the Bab was treated by a physician of Irish origin
named William Cormick (d. 1877), the only Westerner to meet the Bab, who recorded his
impressions ([Zarandi] 1932: xxxii; Balyuzi 1973: 145; Momen 1981: 74; Amanat 2005: 391-
392). Cormick described the Bab as
a very mild and delicate-looking man, rather small in stature and very fair for
a Persian, with a melodious soft voice, which struck me much .... In fact his
whole look and deportment went far to dispose one in his favor.
(Amanat 2005: 109)
The last two years of the Bab's incarceration in Chihriq witnessed the large-scale
persecution of His followers and a series of confrontations between the Bab's supporters
and the state in 1848 and 1849. In an attempt to quell further upheavals and impede the
advancement of the new faith, the chief minister to the newly crowned Na~iri'd-Din Shah,
Mirza Taqi Khan, better known as Amir Kabir ( d. 1852), condemned the Bab to death. On
his orders, the Bab was transferred yet again from Chihriq to Tabriz. Anticipating this
move, the Bab had entrusted His last tablets and seals to one of His amanuenses to deliver
to Jinab-i-Baha in Tehran.
The Bab arrived in Tabriz in late June 1850. Divested of His green turban, cloak, and sash
-symbols of His noble lineage as a siyyid-he was taken barefoot to the barracks in Tabriz.
One of His ardent disciples, Mirza Mul,iammad-'Aliy-i-Zunuzi, surnamed Anis (meaning
'companion'), threw himself at the Bab's feet and begged the guards to allow him to
accompany the Bab. Members of Anis's family attempted to persuade him to return home,
even going so far as to bring his two-year-old child into the barracks in order to plead with
him to abandon his belief in the Bab, but he maintained his unwavering allegiance and
devotion to Him and refused to recant his faith or leave the Bab's side (Mehrabkhani 2011:
80-83).
Copyrighted material

The life of the Bab ended with His execution-together
with Anis-by a military firing
squad in Tabriz on 9 July 1850; He was thirty-one years of age. The public nature of the
execution appears to have been designed so as to demonstrate to the masses the full control
of the government
(Amanat 2005: 402) and perhaps reduce the possibility of later
speculation that He was still alive. A regiment of 750 soldiers under the authority of
Colonel Sam Khan of the Christian regiment of Urmia ranged itself in three files and was
ordered to discharge a volley of bullets. When the cloud of smoke cleared, the great throng
of onlookers was astonished; the Bab had vanished. The bullets had severed the ropes by
which the Bab was suspended but had not harmed Him. The Bab was eventually found in
His prison cell concluding a private conversation with His amanuensis that had earlier been
interrupted. A second regiment under the authority of its commander, Aqa Jan Khan-i-
Khamsih, was called in, and this time, the volley tore the bodies of the Bab and Anis to
pieces. The firing squads of both regiments consisted of 750 men, though several sources
indicate even higher numbers of riflemen (Nicolas 1905: 375; Kazemzadeh 1973: 14). I:Iaji
Mu'inu's-Saltanih, for example-who,
in researching his account of the martyrdom of the
Bab, personally interviewed over one hundred individuals in Tabriz who were present on
that day-writes
that Sam Khan ranged his regiment of one thousand soldiers into three
files and ordered them to open fire at the Bab one after the other (Mu'inu's-Saltanih n.d.:
fols. 308, 318-319).
The remains of the Bab and Anis, which were so intermingled as the result of the force of
the bullets that they could not be separated, were secretly removed from the edge of the
moat outside the city, in which they had been cast, and transferred in secrecy to Tehran.
After years of concealment, the Bab's remains were quietly moved under the direction of
Baha'u'llah and then 'Abdu'l-Baha to Ottoman Palestine, where they were interred in a
Shrine built by 'Abdu'l-Baha on the slopes of Mount Carmel in the port city of Haifa in
March 1909. Over forty years later, as the Baha'i community expanded under the leadership
of 'Abdu'l-Baha and His successor, Shoghi Effendi, its members were able to contribute
funds for the building of a superstructure to the Shrine, which was completed in 1953
(Figure 2.3).
Copyrighted material

•
•

•
•

•
•

Mazindarani, A. (n.d.) Kitab-i-?,uhuru'l-Ijaqq, vol. 2, manuscript in private hands.
---.
(1938) 'The Life of the Bab', Star of the West, 14. 7: 193-202.
---.
(2008) Kitab-i-?,uhuru'l-Ijaqq, vol. 3, Hofheim: Baha'i-Verlag.
Mehrabkhani, R. (2011) Zunuzi: A Love Story, trans. A. Mottahedeh, Spain: Fundaci6n
Nehal.
Momen, M. (1981) The Babi and Baha'i Religions, 1844-1944: Some Contemporary
Western Accounts, Oxford: George Ronald.
---.
(2010) 'Perfection and Refinement: Towards an Aesthetics of the Bab', in Lights of
1rfan: Studies in the Principal Baha'i Beliefs, Book Twelve, Darmstadt: 'Asr-i-Jadid
Publisher, 221-243.
---.
(2018) 'Millennialist Narrative and Apocalyptic Violence: The Case of the Babis of
Iran', Journal of the British Association for the Study of Religion, 20: 1-18.
Mu]:iammad-I:Iusayni, N. (1995) }jat;/,rat-i-Bab, Dundas, Ontario: Mu'assasay-i-Ma'arif-i-
Bah , ,,
a 1.
---.
(2012) }jat;/,rat-i-Tahirih, 2nd ed., Madrid: Intisharat-i-Ni]:ial.
Mu'inu's-Saltanih, M. (n.d.) Tarikh-i-Amr, manuscript in private hands.
Nicolas, A. L. M. (1905) Seyyed Ali Mohammed dit le Bab, Paris: Dujarric & Cie.
Rabbani, A. (2006) The Babis of Nayriz: History and Documents, manuscript in private
hands.
Rouhani Ma'ani, B. (2008) Leaves of the Twin Divine Trees: An In-depth Study of the Lives
of Women Closely Related to the Bab and Baha'u'llah, Oxford: George Ronald.
Saiedi, N. (2008) Gate of the Heart: Understanding the Writings of the Bab, Canada:
Wilfrid Laurier University Press.
---.
(2011) 'The Ethiopian King', trans. 0. Ghaemmaghami, Baha'i Studies Review, 17:
181-186.
Shoghi Effendi. (1944) God Passes By, Wilmette, IL: Baha'i Publishing Trust.
Vahman, F. (2020) 'The Bab: A Sun in a Night Not Followed by Dawn', in The Bab and
the Babi Community of Iran, ed. F. Vahman, Oxford: Oneworld.
Walbridge, J. (1996) 'The Babi Uprising in Zanjan: Causes and Issues', Iranian Studies,
29.3-4: 339-362.
[Zarandi, N.] (1932) The Dawn-Breakers: Nabil's Narrative of the Early Days of the
Baha'i Revelation, trans. Shoghi Effendi, Wilmette, IL: Baha'i Publishing Trust.
Copyrighted material

•
•

Although shorter than Balyuzi 1980, this book uses a number of sources not used in that
book.
Nabil [Zarandi]. (1970) The Dawn-Breakers: Nabil's Narrative of the Early Days of the
Baha'i Revelation, Wilmette, IL: Baha'i Publishing Trust.
Salmani, M. A. (1982) My Memories of Baha'u'llah, trans. Marzieh Gail, Los Angeles:
Kalimat Press.
Shoghi Effendi. (1974) God Passes By, rev. ed., Wilmette, IL: Baha'i Publishing Trust.
This book written by the head of the Baha'i Faith may be regarded as the official sacred
history of the Baha'i community.
Copyrighted material

THE WRITINGS OF BAHA'U'LLAH
Steven Phelps
DOI: 10.4324/9780429027772-7
The writings of Baha'u'llah comprise a vast and diverse body of documents written in
Arabic and Persian during a forty-year period both before and after the declaration of
Baha'u'llah's prophetic mission in 1863. Almost 20,000 distinct works, from brief items of
correspondence to lengthy treatises, and totalling almost seven million words, have so far
been catalogued at the Baha'i World Centre in Haifa, Israel, which preserves authenticated
copies of the majority. They are regarded by Baha'is as divinely inspired, and together with
the writings of His herald the Bab (q.v.), which are likewise regarded, they constitute the
Baha'i sacred writings. The understanding and application of these writings is guided, for
Baha'is, by the commentary and interpretation of 'Abdu'l-Baha (q.v.) and Shoghi Effendi
(q.v.) and by the elucidation of the Universal House of Justice (q.v.).
In this chapter:
1. Aspects of content and style
2. Periodization and principal works
A. The vernal years: 'Iraq (1853-1863)
i. Early Baghdad and Kurdistan (April 1853-March 1856)
ii. Middle and late Baghdad (March 1856-April 1863)
B. Summer: Rumelia (1863-1868)
i. Istanbul and early Edirne (April 1863-March 1866)
ii. Middle Edirne (March 1866-September 1867)
iii. Late Edirne (September 1867-August 1868)
C. The harvest season: 'Akka (1868-1892)
i. Early 'Akka (1868-1873)
Copyrighted material

ii. Middle and late 'Akka (1873-1892)
1. Aspects of content and style
Though Baha'u'llah's writings (often referred to as 'tablets') embrace a wide range of topics
and were addressed to many different individuals in diverse settings over a period of
decades, their underlying theme can be said to be the principle of unity in diversity: the
unity of God behind diverse conceptions of the deity; the unity of the prophets underneath
the variations in their message; the unity of religion despite its seemingly contradictory
expressions in the world; and the unity of the human race, whose perennial conflicts
between tribes, congregations, and nations are constants of its past and which it is the
particular mission of Baha'u'llah to reconcile. In one of His tablets, Baha'u'llah identifies the
unifying principle as 'the law of love which, like a fountain, always flows and is never
overtaken by change' (Baha'u'llah, in Esslemont 1923).
Approximately two-thirds of Baha'u'llah' s writings are in Arabic, and the remainder are
in Persian or contain passages in both languages. Baha'u'llah's Arabic differs from the
standard Arabic of His day in ways that reflect its use as the liturgical language of Islamic
Iran during the nineteenth century. His Persian, also reflecting the usage of the time, often
employs words of Arabic origin, but He would also occasionally compose works in pure
Persian without any Arabic influences. His writings contain, and comment upon, hundreds
of quoted passages from the Qyr' an and the Bible, as well as the Hadith literature of Islam,
the works of Sufi poets such as Rumi, and in a few cases, philosophers, historians, and
others in the literary tradition.
Most of Baha'u'llah' s works were dictated to His amanuensis Mirza Aqa Jan; writings in
His own hand are comparatively less common, with fewer than a thousand examples
extant. Eyewitnesses described the overwhelming experience of being present during the
revelation of verses, with words descending with such rapidity that the amanuensis would
at times be unable to keep up. A clean copy of the work would be produced, this in turn
serving as the basis for a copy in formal script intended for the recipient. Many writings
addressed to individuals in Iran were dispatched to a copyist in the form of lengthy
concatenated works, to be re-copied as separate tablets for their recipients. This
multiplicity of handwritten copies, as well as the care taken by early Baha'is to preserve the
texts they received, helps account for the fact that despite the poverty and instability of
much of Baha'u'llah's life, most of His writings have survived in the original or in reliable
transcriptions (see Figure 5.1).
Copyrighted material

Law}:i-i-Kullu't-Ta'am ('Tablet
of
All Food',
Arabic,
BH00267). A
commentary offering several symbolic interpretations of the Qyr'anic verse
'All food was allowed to the children of Israel' (Qyr'an 3:93).
Beginning in April of 1854, Baha'u'llah departed Baghdad and withdrew to the village of
Sulaymaniyah in the mountains of Kurdistan, where He lived anonymously for two years as
a dervish and composed mainly mystical and poetic works, including:
Qa~idiy-i-Varqa'iyyih ('Ode of the Dove', Arabic, BH00115). A lengthy poem
composed in the style of a poem by Ibn-i-Faric;l, glorifying the spirit that had
visited Him in the form of the Maid of Heaven, expatiating on His sufferings
and His loneliness and affirming His determination to face any future
calamities that might befall Him in the path of God.
Sa.qi az Ghayb-i-Baqa ('The Cup-bearer from the Eternal Unseen', Persian,
BH03843). A brief ode alluding to His messianic secret and calling for
purification of heart and commitment to love and sacrifice as conditions of the
spiritual journey.
Baz Av-u-Bidih Jamili ('At Dawn the Friend Came to My Bed', Persian,
BH05338). Another brief ode celebrating the divine love, beseeching immortal
life, and expressing His desire for evanescence in God and His wish to offer up
His life in the path of God.
ii. Middle and late Baghdad (March 1856-April 1863)
A large number of works date from Baha'u'llah's return to Baghdad in 1856 until His
second exile in 1863, in which His prophetic claim is likewise not yet explicitly stated. These
include, most prominently, three central works that helped lay the foundations for
Baha'u'llah's later teachings:
* Kalimat-i-Maknunih ('The Hidden Words', Arabic and Persian, BH00386 and
BH00113). His foremost ethical work, consisting of 153 aphorisms spoken in
the voice of the Divine and declaring themselves to be the 'inner essence' of
what was revealed to 'the Prophets of old', affirming the essential nobility and
divinity of the human soul, prescribing its intimate communion with its
Creator, proclaiming the oneness of the human race, and declaring our
consequent responsibility to fellowship, love, fair-mindedness, and mutual aid
for one another, especially the poor and downtrodden.
* Haft Va.di ('The Seven Valleys', Persian, BH00047). His most important
mystical composition, patterned in part after Farid'u'd-Din 'Attar's Mantiqu'l-
Tayr ('The Conference of the Birds'), describing seven stages in the path of the
spiritual wayfarers-'search',
'love',
'knowledge',
'unity',
'contentment',
Copyrighted material

Baha'is, quoting some of the most celebrated passages from His own writings,
and adducing proofs establishing the validity of His cause.
* Kitab-i-'Ahd ('Book of the Covenant', Persian, BH00003). Baha'u'llah's last
will and testament, appointing 'Abdu'l-Baha as His successor by summoning
'the Agh~an, the Afnan and My Kindred to turn, one and all, their faces
towards the Most Mighty Branch'; categorically forbidding contention and
conflict; and cautioning lest the means of order and unity that He brought into
the world should become the cause of confusion and discord.
References and further reading
The Baha'i Reference Library, www.bahai.org/library,
contains a selection of works of
Baha'u'llah and other Baha'i Writings in English translations as well as in the
original languages.
The Baha'i World, vol. VII, 1936-38 (1939), Wilmette, IL: Baha'i Publishing Trust,
https:/ /file.bahai.media/d/dd/BW _ Volume7.pdf.
Baha'u'llah.
(1941) Epistle
to the
Son of
the
Wolf, trans.
Shoghi
Effendi,
www.bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/bahaullah/epistle-son-wolf.
---.
(2002) The Summons of the Lord of Hosts, Haifa: Baha'i World Centre,
www.bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/bahaullah/summons-lord-hosts.
---.
(2006)
The
Tabernacle
of
Unity,
Haifa:
Baha'i
World
Centre,
www.bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/bahaullah/tabernacle-unity.
---.
(1923) quoted in J. Esslemont, Baha'u'llah and the New Era, London: G. Allen &
U nwin,
www.bahai.org/library / other-literature/publications-individual-
authors/bahaullah-new-era.
Phelps, S. (2020) A Partial Inventory of the Works of the Central Figures of the Baha'i
Faith, Includes an index to over 11,000 works of Baha'u'llah accessible in the public
domain, in the original languages and in translation, including all the titles
mentioned
in this chapter: www.afnanlibrary.org/docs/other-materials/partial-
inventory-of-the-works-of-the-central-figures-of-the-bahai-faith.
Saiedi, N. (2000) Logos and Civilization, Bethesda: University Press of Maryland.
Shoghi Effendi. (1944) God Passes By, Wilmette,
IL: Baha'i Publishing Trust,
www.bahai.org/library / authoritative-texts/ shoghi-effendi/ god-passes-by.
Copyrighted material

'ABDU'L-BAHA 'ABBAS 1
Necati Alkan
DOI: 10.4324/9780429027772-8
'Abdu'l-Baha (i.e., the 'Servant of Baha') was the eldest son of Baha'u'llah (1817-1892), the
founder of the Baha'i Faith, and His appointed successor and the Head of the Faith from
1892 to 1921. He was named 'Abbas after His grandfather, the minister Mirza Buzurg Nuri
(from Nur) and officially called 'Abbas Effendi. His mother was Asiyyih Khanum, 'Navvab',
who was also from a notable family. Baha'u'llah became a prominent member of the Babi
Faith. From early in His life, 'Abdu'l-Baha shared His father's hardships caused by the
persecution of the Babis in Iran and, later, during their exiles from Tehran to Baghdad,
Istanbul, Edirne, and 'Akka. He was Baha'u'llah's close companion, chief steward, and
trusted representative for external affairs in the Ottoman Empire. For the Baha'is, 'Abdu'l-
Baha is 'the Master', as called by His Father, and the perfect exemplar of the Baha'i
teachings.
Birth and childhood in Iran, 1844-1853
'Abdu'l-Baha's birth was on the same night on which the Bab declared His prophetic
mission. He was born around midnight on 5 Jumada al-Awwal 1260 (22-23 May 1844) in
Tehran: 'He it was Whose auspicious birth occurred on that never-to-be-forgotten
night
when the Bab laid bare the transcendental character of His Mission to His first disciple
Mulla I:Iusayn' (Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By 240; see also Esslemont 1923/1980: 51). The
family of His father was from the province of Mazandaran, and later, 'Abdu'l-Baha would
specify and extol His ancestral homeland in the following words:
Although 'Abdu'l-Baha was born in Tihran and for successive years wandered
homeless in Iraq, and although he was for a time an exile in Rumelia and for
forty years a prisoner in 'Akka, yet his homeland is Mazindaran-that
is to say,
the district of Miyanrud in the region of Nur ..... it is the ancestral home of the
Copyrighted material

family of the Blessed Beauty. My heart longeth for that land to become even as
Paradise itself·2
(Muntakflabati 4: no. 3; Light of the World, no. 11)
From His early childhood, 'Abdu'l-Baha sensed the greatness in Baha'u'llah's personality
and His attachment to the mission of Bab, owing to which He was persecuted like
thousands of other Ba.bis. This was due to the false accusation that Baha'u'llah ordered three
Ba.bis to assassinate Na~iru'd-Din Shah in August 1852. The attempt failed, but the shah was
outraged and ordered Baha'u'llah arrested, even though He was the son of a minister. He
was thrown into the terrible dungeon of the Siyah-Chal in Tehran (Balyuzi 1980: 79-83).
Consequently, the family's belongings were pillaged, their lands confiscated overnight, and
the family suffered poverty and hunger. This occurred when 'Abdu'l-Baha was an eight-
year-old boy. According to 'Abdu'l-Baha's own testimony:
The Blessed Beauty, may my life be a sacrifice for His loved ones, did not raise
us to live a life of comfort-to
repose in ease, or make merry, or indulge in
pleasures. He spent His days in prison; He raised us to be intoxicated with the
wine of disappointment, and trained us to endure every hardship, so that the
genuine intention to serve the Cause of God would be mixed into our
characters. Thereby would we make sacrifices without even willing it and
eschew even a moment's peace.
(Muntalsllabati S: no. 2)
'Abdu'l-Baha also confirms that as much as He grew up with hardships, His life was infused
with servitude to the Bab, and as a result, He was honoured with servitude in the embrace
of Baha'u'llah (ibid., no. 192).
The most remarkable event in His childhood, as told by Himself, was when a servant
took Him to the Siyah-Chal to visit His father. He was heartbroken to see Him in such a
terrible condition: 'Suddenly they brought the Blessed Perfection [Baha'u'llah] out of the
dungeon. He was chained to several others. What a chain! It was very heavy. The prisoners
could only move it along with great difficulty. Sad and heart-rending it was' (quoted in
Balyuzi 1971: 11).
After four dreadful months in the dungeon, Baha'u'llah was proven innocent and
released, but he had to leave Iran. He, His family, and some followers were banished in
early 1853 to Baghdad in the Ottoman Empire. Sixty years later, 'Abdu'l-Baha stated that
the fact that He had been victim of tuberculosis in childhood was a blessing in disguise
because He had to stay in Tehran for treatment. Otherwise, He would have been in
Mazandaran and could not have joined His father, to Whom He was very much attached, in
the exile (Balyuzi 1971: 12-13).
Copyrighted material

Exile in Ottoman Baghdad, 1853-1863
After a difficult journey in the midst of a harsh winter, which affected the young 'Abdu'l-
Baha to such an extent that He suffered from the pain caused by the resulting frostbite all
His life, Baha'u'llah and His entourage reached Baghdad on 8 April 1853. Despite His first
revelation in the Siyah-Chal, where He received the intimation that He was the promised
redeemer Whom the Bab and all the holy scriptures had foretold, Baha'u'llah did not
disclose His station until ten years later. But even as a child, 'Abdu'l-Baha was aware of His
father's station and was the first one to believe in His mission:
In Baghdad I was a child nine years old. There and then he [Baha'u'llah]
announced to me the Word, and I believed him. As soon as he proclaimed to
me the Word, I threw myself at his holy feet and implored and supplicated him
to accept this one drop of blood as a sacrifice in his pathway.
(Diary of Mirza Ahinad Sohrab January 13, 1914; Star of the West, 8.13: 169; Esslemont
1923/1980: 52)
Other accounts relate that it was in April 1863, before Baha'u'llah left Baghdad, when He
confided to 'Abdu'l-Baha that He was the Promised One (see later in this chapter).
Baha'u'llah's aim in Baghdad was to revitalise the devastated Babi community, which had
become disheartened after the Bab's execution in 1850 and the massacre of His followers
after the assassination attempt on the shah. Yet the plotting of enemies from within,
foremost the attacks by His half-brother Mirza Yal:iya-known as the 'nominee' of the Bab,
who did not fulfil his role as the leader of the Babis and was constantly in hiding-made
Baha'u'llah avoid assertions of leadership. Instead, Baha'u'llah left His home in 1854,
without notifying His family, and retreated to the mountains of the Kurdish region of
northern Iraq near Sulaymaniyah.
As saddened as He was over this separation, the ten-year-old 'Abdu'l-Baha displayed a
mature character, was serene, and bore responsibilities for the Babi community and His
family. In addition, 'Abdu'l-Baha was known for His intellectual capacities and wisdom at
that young age despite the fact that He did not attend a formal school; His mind had been
moulded under the care of Baha'u'llah. In His teens 'Abdu'l-Baha had contact with many
men of learning in Baghdad who came to ask for His advice or put forward philosophical
questions and listen to the replies of this young yet sagacious youth.
Baha'u'llah's absence had proved that the Babi community was in need of Him, and after
He came back to Baghdad in 1856, He invigorated the followers of the Bab and turned their
attention to the unique presence of 'Abdu'l-Baha:
Baha'u'llah gave the Babis vision and hope and character which they had lost.
But as yet only the chosen mind of 'Abdu'l-Baha had received the full impact of
the station of His Father. It was during this period that Baha'u'llah bestowed
Copyrighted material

upon His Son the designation 'Sirru'llah' -the
Mystery of God. Those who
sought the presence of Baha'u'llah found in His eldest Son traits and qualities
which evoked high praise and marvelling admiration.
(Balyuzi 1971: 15)
Although officially a prisoner of the Ottoman Empire, Baha'u'llah could walk freely in
Baghdad and mingled with the people. 'Abdu'l-Baha became His father's shield and
representative with regard to relations with Ottoman officials and society in general. He
also became His secretary, transcribing writings of Baha'u'llah, foremost the Kitab-i-f qan
('The Book of Certitude'), His principal work of apologetics and the first Baha'i book ever
printed (Browne and Momen 1987, Selections 250; Buck 1995/2012, Symbol & Secret 113).
During most of this ten-year period in Baghdad, Sultan Abdiilmecid ('Abdu'l-Majid,
reigned 1839-1861) was rather friendly towards the exiled Babis. The friendly attitude of
the Sublime Porte (the Ottoman government) towards Baha'u'llah changed after Abdulaziz
('Abdu'l-'Aziz), brother of Abdillmecid, became the Sultan (1861-1876). Iran, noting with
alarm the recovery of the Babi community under Baha'u'llah's guidance, pressed Istanbul
to have him removed from Baghdad. The Iranian ambassador I:Iusayn Khan 'Mushiru' d-
Dawlah' in Istanbul increasingly agitated for this end ('Abdu'l-Baha, Makatib 2: 177).
Eventually, the Ottomans gave in and ordered Baha'u'llah to Istanbul. Shortly before the
official edict was given to Baha'u'llah, the governor general of Baghdad, Namik (Namiq)
Pasha (1804-1892) gave the Babis Ottoman citizenship, much to the irritation of the Iranian
government. In this way the Babis, whom Baha'u'llah had kept under His leadership, were
protected when the Iranian authorities asked to extradite them back to Iran (Alkan 2008:
62).
Before Baha'u'llah and His entourage left Baghdad for Istanbul, He retreated for twelve
days, from 22 April to 3 May, to the garden that belonged to Necib (Najib) Pasha, which
was later known as the 'Garden of Ri<;lvan'. There Baha'u'llah proclaimed His divine mission
and claim to 'Abdu'l-Baha and a few Babis in His entourage (Phelps 1903: 30; Blomfield
1940: 82).
In a tablet that 'Abdu'l-Baha wrote at the Garden of Ridvan when He was about nineteen
•
years old, just before the exile to Istanbul, He related that Nam1k Pasha apologised for the
development of the whole affair and offered to help Baha'u'llah in any way he could
(Muntakhabati 4: no. 35). Baha'u'llah received so much attention and esteem from high and
low alike that His enemies, who had secured His banishment, now regretted their scheme.
Later in His life, 'Abdu'l-Baha related that, owing to the hostility of Na~iri' d-Din Shah
and Sultan Abdulaziz and his viziers, Mehmed Emin (Mul:iammad Amin), 'Ali' Pasha ( d.
1871) and Mehmed Fuad Pasha (d. 1869; both exchanged the posts of Prime and Foreign
Minister for decades), Baha'u'llah was exiled from Baghdad in order to end His influence.
But they did not realize that the exile actually added to the glory of His religion because
Baha'u'llah spent twelve days in the Garden of Ri<;lvan with great joy and left it with
magnificence (Risalih-i-Ayyam-i-Tis 'ih 328-329).
Copyrighted material

'Abdu'l-Baha had made arrangements to make the difficult journey to Istanbul across
Iraq and modern Turkey as easy as possible. It lasted three months. Later in Istanbul and
Edirne, His role as His father's chief shield and representative
became even more
prominent.
Banishment in Istanbul and Edirne, 1863-1868
Arriving in the Ottoman capital on 16 August 1863, Baha'u'llah was approached by Ottoman
officials, who paid their respect to Him but also advised Him that it was customary to pay
one's respects to the Prime Minister and, eventually, to Sultan Abdulaziz. Since Baha'u'llah
had been invited by the Ottoman government, He had no favour to solicit or gain. He
observed that 'nothing has been seen from its [Istanbul's] inhabitants but conventional,
officious formalities' (Mazandarani 1968: 1.108-109; Rosen 1908: 126 no. 37, transl. Cole
n.d.). Regarding the statesmen in Istanbul, He stated that they were not mature: 'its
governors and elders [were] as children gathered about and disporting themselves with
clay' (Summons 201). 'Abdu'l-Baha confirmed this observation. He is reported to have said
that the thoughts of the statesmen of the East were atrophied, their hearts devoid of desire
for the progress of the nation, their ideas petty, selfish, local, and not general. They thought
of their own interests rather than of those of their country (Sohrab 1929: 237-238).
At some point during the four-month stay in Istanbul, the Iranian ambassador, I:Iusayn
Khan, convinced the Ottomans to exile Baha'u'llah to Edirne in Rumelia (European Turkey),
at the western fringes of the Empire. At the end of 1863, Baha'u'llah and His entourage
were banished 'suddenly and without any justification whatsoever, in the depth of winter,
and in the most humiliating circumstances' to Edirne (Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By 158).
'Abdu'l-Baha later stated that 'the Government obliged us to settle in Adrianople [Edirne]'
(Memorials 58).
During the almost five years in Edirne, which Baha'u'llah called 'the Land of Mystery'
(Ar<;l,-i-Sirr),
'Abdu'l-Baha's station became even more important. Baha'u'llah had already
conferred upon His illustrious son the title 'the Mystery of God', and now in Edirne, He
called Him 'the Most Mighty Branch' ( Gh~n-i-A ':?am; gh~n being a designation for
Baha'u'llah's male descendants; the family was called Agh$an, 'branches'). In a most
significant tablet called the Surih-i-Gh~n, 'the Surah of the Branch', Baha'u'llah elevated
the rank of 'Abdu'l-Baha among His sons and alluded that He would be His successor. In
unequivocal language, Baha'u'llah described 'Abdu'l-Baha's exalted station as the one to
whom all the Baha'is must turn. Only under His shadow would they be safe; a safety of
which those who turned away from Him were deprived (Balyuzi 1971: 22-23)
It was in Edirne when 'Abdu'l-Baha, now in His twenties, composed His commentary on
the Islamic hadith, beginning with 'I was a hidden treasure' (Kuntu kanzan makhfiyyan), at
the request of Ali $evket ('Ali ,S_hawkat) Pasha, an Ottoman official and, apparently, a Sufi
Copyrighted material

(Esslemont 1923/1980: 52-53; Momen 1995: 4). Shoghi Effendi refers to it as a 'superb
commentary on a well-known Mu}:iammadan tradition' (God Passes By 241).3 'Abdu'l-Baha
had become widely known for His qualities and deep intellect. His contacts with Ottoman
officials high and low made them His admirers. Among them was Mehmed Hur§id
(Mu}:iammad Khurshid) Pasha, the governor general of Edirne (1866-1869), who became
His friend and consulted Him about the future of the Ottoman Empire (Sohrab 1929: 238-
239).4 (Figure 6.1).
Figure 6.1 Photograph of 'Abdu'l-Baha taken in 1868 (age 24).
Source: National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha'is of the United States.
All His life, 'Abdu'l-Baha entertained friendly relations with followers of different
religions and beliefs. In Edirne He was friends with Muslims and Christians (Shoghi Effendi,
Copyng led n1atGr I

God Passes By 180) and, most interestingly, with some Bektashis 5 (Sohrab 1929: 17-18, 218-
219, 220), Close up extra space between this line and the line above. 6
From the Edirne period until the exile to 'Akka in August 1868, many significant events
in the development of the Babi community took place. Baha'u'llah commenced the
proclamation of His claims on a global scale by writing to various secular and religious
rulers (see Summons). The conflict with His half-brother Mirza Yal).ya, which was already
brewing in Baghdad, reached its climax. Baha'u'llah Himself calls this ultimate crisis as the
'Days of Stress' and the 'most great separation'. After this, most of the Babis followed
Baha'u'llah and became known as 'Baha'is.' A tiny minority of the Babis sided with Mirza
Yal).ya (titled 'Subl)-i-Azal') and are known to history as 'Azalis.' After Baha'u'llah publicly
proclaimed His mission in 1867 and expelled Mirza Yal).ya from the community, He
withdrew from the public ('Abdu'l-Baha, Zarqani 1998: 127; Star of the West 19. 7: 218-219).
He also left the external affairs related to the family and community to 'Abdu'l-Baha.
The intrigues of Yal).ya and his accomplices resulted in the decision of Sultan Abdulaziz to
condemn Baha'u'llah and His followers to exile in the prison-city of 'Akka in Syria (modern
Israel). The Ottoman ruler did not spare the chief instigators, Yal).ya and his lieutenant,
Sayyid Mul)ammad I~fahani, who has been called the 'Antichrist of the Baha'i Revelation'.
They were sent to Famagusta in Cyprus and to 'Akka, respectively. Both were traditional
places of exile for Ottoman criminals and dissidents.
About three and a half years after the arrival in 'Akka (see later in this chapter), 'Abdu'l-
Baha sent a letter 7 to the Ottoman Prime Minister (then Mahmud Nedim/Ma}:imud Nadim
Pasha, Sept. 1871-July 1872; see Abu-Manneh 1990), describing the numerous banishments
within the Ottoman Empire and the reasons for them. Regarding the deportation from
Edirne, He wrote that despite the friendly attitude of the people in Edirne, one day, all of a
sudden, soldiers surrounded the house of Baha'u'llah, and after the family inquired about
the reason, they were told that it was decreed by the Sublime Porte that they be sent to
Gelibolu (Gallipoli). Consternation seized the Baha'i community after soldiers arrested
Baha'u'llah and His followers, and they were forced to leave Edirne. Without understanding
the reason, as 'Abdu'l-Baha continued in His letter mentioned earlier, all the family and
followers, counting seventy persons, were exiled to 'Akka, where they were incarcerated in
the military barracks (Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By 179-180 says 'all the exiles, numbering
about seventy'). Then, after one month, He was surprised to read in an Ottoman newspaper
that the Ottoman Marshal of the Police Force received the Lion and Sun medal of the first
class from the Iranian government (BOA, HR.TO. 455/55). 'Abdu'l-Baha further wrote in
His letter that the edict commanding the exile to 'Akka stated that He and Baha'u'llah were
interrogated in Istanbul, and upon being found guilty, they were exiled. This, of course, was
contrary to the truth because Baha'u'llah and 'Abdu'l-Baha were never present at the
Sublime Porte for an interrogation (ibid.).
Exile in 'Akka, 1868-1892
Copyrighted material

The first years after their arrival in 'Akka on 31 August 1868 proved especially difficult and
dangerous
for the
Baha'i
community.
'Abdu'l-Baha
continued
to bear
weighty
responsibilities. He witnessed the death of His younger brother Mirza Mihdi, titled 'the
Purest Branch' ( Ghu$n-i-Athar), in June 1870 at the age of twenty-two and the severe illness
and suffering of many Baha'is, owing to the unsanitary condition of the military barracks of
the citadel. Baha'u'llah referred to the citadel and the entire penal city of 'Akka as 'the Most
Great Prison', Sijn-i-A '?am. Later, Baha'u'llah would describe the role of 'Abdu'l-Baha with
the following words:
[I]n the Most Great Prison We do not meet the people who are not within the
fold of the Cause [the Baha'i Faith]. We have closed the doors of social
intercourse. It is the Master Who has taken every trouble upon Himself. For
Our sake, in order that We may have ease and comfort, He faces the world and
its peoples. For Us He has become a mighty stronghold, a mighty armour ....
He, the Master, is the target and bears all hardships.
(Balyuzi 1971: 26; cf Furutan 1986/n.d.: 76-77/39-40)
Baha'u'llah, His family, and His followers were released from the military barracks in
'Akka towards the end 1870 but had to stay within the walls of the prison city. The
condition in the citadel and later in the city of 'Akka was so bad that 'Abdu'l-Baha, in His
letter mentioned earlier, informed the Ottoman Prime Minister about the conditions. Even
in 1868, the Ottoman central government had taken notice of the wretched condition of the
'Ba.bis' in 'Akka, and the Prime Minister (Ali Pasha) ordered the governor of Syria to
investigate and improve their condition (BOA, HR. MKT. 636/61, 5 $aban 1285/21
November 1868). However, this did not seem to have any effect. 'Abdu'l-Baha stated in His
letter that for three and a half years they had been 'in extreme wretchedness and abasement
as prisoners in 'Akka' (bi-dhillat-i-kubra va haqarat-i-'u:?ma dar }:iabs-i-'Akka masjun va
giriftar), in spite of leaving Iran and arriving in the Ottoman Empire in 'utmost might'
(kamal-i- 'izzat) and having been guests of the state. He asked how a person who was in full
glory and arrived at the Ottoman capital by an imperial order could end up abandoned and
walled up within the ruinous prison of 'Akka with a daily allowance of four piasters (BOA,
HR.TO. 455/55).
Notwithstanding the overall bad situation, the Baha'i community in 'Akka cheered when
'Abdu'l-Baha married Munirih Khanum in 1872. She was the daughter of a distinguished
early Babi in Iran. Out of their nine children, only four daughters survived to adulthood.
Especially noteworthy are 'Abdu'l-Baha's contacts with famous Ottoman reformer-
statesmen, first with the group called the 'Young Ottomans' after the 1860s (Alkan 2008: 97-
114). Among them were the poet and writer Namik Kemal (Namiq Kamal, 1840-1888) and
Midhat (Midl).at) Pasha ( 1822-1884), who was twice Prime Minister. 'Abdu'l-Baha hosted
him in 'Akka in May 1880 when he was on an inspection tour as governor of Syria. In June
1880 'Abdu'l-Baha went to Beirut at the invitation of Midhat Pasha (Alkan 2005). This and
similar meetings 'served to enhance immensely the growing prestige of the community and
Copyrighted material

Gulistani, M. H. (1921/1922) 'Bahai Hareketi Hakk1nda' (About the Baha'i Movement), in
lkdam, 28 Te§rin-i Sarli/November 1921, 4; 8 Kanun-i Evvel/December 1921, 4; and
2 Kanun-i Sani/January 1922, 5.
Ishraq-Khavari, A. (1947 /1974) Risalih-i-Ayyam-i-Tis 'ih, Tehran: Baha'i Publishing Trust,
www.h-net.org/~bahai/areprint/vol5/ayyam/tisih.htm.
Masumian, A. (2021a) 'Remarks from Baha'u'llah on Abdu'l-Baha's Commentary on "I
Was
a
Hidden
Treasure
.. :",
(Provisional)
Translations,
January,
https:/ /adibmasumian.com/translations/bh04769/.
---.
(2021b) 'Baha'u'llah on the Circumstances of the Composition of "the Secret of
Divine
Civilization"',
(Provisional)
Translations,
January,
https://adibmasumian.com/translations/bh03705/.
---
and Necati Alkan. (2021) 'A Story from Abdu'l-Baha: The Pious Man and the
Bektashi
Dervish',
(Provisional)
Translations,
April,
https:// adibmasumian. com/translations/ ab03972/.
Mazandarani, F. (1968-1973) Asraru'l-Athar, 5 vols., Tehran: Baha'i Publishing Trust,
www.h-net.org/~bahai/areprint/authors/mazandarani/asrar.htm.
McGlinn, S. (2009/2020) 'RESALA-YE MADANIYA', Encyclopaedia Iranica Online, ©
Trustees
of
Columbia
University
in
the
City
of
New
York,
http:/ /dx.doi.org/10. l 163/2330-4804_EIRO _ COM_870.
Momen, M. (1983) 'The Baha'i Influence on the Reform Movements of the Islamic World
in
the
1860s
and
1870s',
Baha '[
Studies
Bulletin,
2.2:
47-65,
www.momen.org/relstud/RefMov.htm.
---.
(1995) 'Commentary on the Islamic Tradition "I Was a Hidden Treasure ... "', Baha'i
Studies
Bulletin,
3.4:
4-35,
https:/ /bahai-
library. com/ abdulbaha_kuntu_kanzan_makhfi
yyan.
Mufty-Zade, K. Zia Bey. (1922) Speaking of the Turks, New York: Duffield and Company.
Phelps, M. H. (1903) Life and Teachings of Abbas Effend~ New York: The Knickerbocker
Press.
Rafati, V. (2012) Badayi'-i ma 'ani va tafsir, Darmstadt: 'Asr-i-Jadid.
Rosen, V. (1908) al-Majmu'al-awwal min rasa'il ash-Shaykh al-Babi Baha'u'llah, Sankt
Petersburg: Dar al-'Ulum, https://reference.bahai.org/fa/t/b/RS/.
Scharbrodt, 0. (2008) Islam and the Baha'i Faith: A Comparative Study of Muhammad
'Abduh and 'Abdu'l-Baha 'Abbas, London; New York: Routledge.
---.
(2017) 'Abbas Afandi 'Abd al-Baha': Treatise on Civilisation (Iran, 1875)', in Bjorn
Bentlage, et al., eds., Religious Dynamics under the Impact of Imperialism and
Colonialism: A Sourcebook, Leiden: Brill, 443-460.
Shoghi Effendi. (1938/1991) The World Order of Baha'u'llah, US: Baha'i Publishing Trust,
www.bahai.org/library/authoritative-texts/shoghi-effendi/world-order-bahaullah/.
Sohrab, A. (1929) Abdul Baha in Egypt, New York: New History
Foundation,
https://bahai-library.com/sohrab
_abdulbaha_ egypt.
Copyrighted material

Star
of the
West
(vol.
1 previously
Bahai News),
digital
PDF archive
at
http:/ /starofthewest.info/.
Thompson, ]. (n.d./1924?) Abdul Baha 's First Days in America from the Diary of Juliet
Thompson, East Aurora, NY: The Roycrofters; reprinted:
H-Bahai: Lansing,
Michigan, 2004, www.h-net.org/~bahai/ diglib/books/P-T /T /Thompson/FDA.htm.
Zarqani, M. (1998) Ma/:zmud's Diary: The Diary of Mirza Ma/:zmud-i-Zarqani Chronicling
'Abdu 'l-Baha 's Journey to America, Oxford: George Ronald.
Copyrighted material

Index
Note: Page numbers in italic indicate a figure and page numbers in bold indicate a table on
the corresponding page.
abandonment of prejudice 372
'Abdu'l-Baha 'Abbas 11-12, 77, 82; arguments for the immortality of the soul 277-279;
banishment in Istanbul and Edirne 75-77; birth and childhood in Iran 72-73; The
Call for Universal Peace 99; commentaries
89-90; critique of the doctrine of
reincarnation
276-277; death of 106-108; design of the Shrine of 84; direct
encounters between Europeans and 533; exile in 'Akka 78-79; exile in Ottoman
Baghdad 73-75; expounding Baha'u'llah's principles in the West 96-98; head of the
Baha'i Faith 79-84;
and interfaith
relations
204-205;
Lawl).-i-Khurasan 92;
leadership of 505-506; Memorials of the Faithful 99-100; The Secret of Divine
Civilization 90-91; Some Answered Qyestions 93-94; tablets (makatib) 94-96,
100-101; A Traveler's Narrative 91-92; travels in Europe 534; Treatise on Politics
92-93; Will and Testament of 93; writings of 88-101
Abha (Most Glorious) Kingdom 637
abuse, spousal 376
administration, gender equality in 253-254
Administrative Order 12-13, 637; essential features of 436-440; institutions and their
responsibilities 428-433; overview 426-428; relationships and the nature of power
433-436
Advent of Divine Justice, The 120-121
aesthetics 172
Afnan, Elham xii, 534
Africa see sub-Saharan Africa
African Americans 240-245
afterlife: Baha'i burial practices 279-280; Baha'i notion of afterlife
philosophical proofs 276-279; historical background 269-270
agency, constructive 442-449
agriculture 345
Akhtarkhavari, Nesreen xii
'Akka 46-50, 64-71, 78-79
Alkan, Necati xii
Alval).-i-Va~aya 93
annulment of marriage 376-377
anthropology, philosophical 164-166
270-276· Baha'i
'
Copyrighted material

anti-trust, view of 'Abdu'l-Baha 397
Arab Spring 522-523
Arab world: current status of the Baha'i Faith in 527-528; historical presence in 514-
518; the identity card issue 522-523; Jordan 523-525; legal recognition 519-522;
lineage and identity 513-514; the ministry of Shoghi Effendi 518-519; Yemen 525-
Arc, the (Haifa, Israel) 431, 637
artistic expression
294-296; Baha'i writings
related to art 291-294;
and the
community 297-298; and community building 298-300; examples of Baha'is in the
arts 300-302; the future of 302-303; and the individual 296-297
artists 244- 245
Asia see Northeast Asia; South Asia; Southeast Asia; and specific countries
Australia 595-601
Auxiliary Board member 637
Ayyam-i-Ha 638
Azerbaijan 22-25, 79, 533, 548, 551
Bab, the 7-8, 17-26, 29-31; advent of the religion of 41-43; calligraphy of 30; ethics
37-38; expectation of the promised one 38-39; five modes of revelation 32; the
house of 19; human nobility 36-37; new hermeneutics
36; reinterpretation
of
theology 34-36; the Shrine of 26; three stages of revelation 32-34; typology of his
writings 31-34
Ba.bi movement 501-505, 509, 511, 552; early interest in Europe 532-533; spread in
Iran 551-552
Badi' calendar 638
Baghdad 54-57, 73-75
Baha'i Authoritative Texts 638
Baha'i Centre (Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia) 301
Baha'i communities 534-537, 535, 579, 588-589, 600
Baha'i House of Worship (Agua Azul, Colombia) 567
Baha'i House of Worship (Ashgabat, Turkmenistan) 554
Baha'i House of Worship (Battambang, Cambodia) 618
Baha'i House of Worship (Bihar Sharif, India) 611
Baha'i House of Worship (Ingleside, Sydney) 594
Baha'i House of Worship (Kampala, Uganda) 626
Baha'i House of Worship (Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of Congo) 634
Baha'i House of Worship (Langenhain, Germany) 537
Baha'i House of Worship (Matunda Soy, Kenya) 634
Baha'i House of Worship (New Delhi, India) 609
Baha'i House of Worship (Panama City, Panama) 562
Baha'i House of Worship (Port Moresby, New Guinea) 600
Copyrighted material

Baha'i House of Worship (Santiago, Chile) 566
Baha'i House of Worship (Tanna, Vanuatu) 601
Baha'i House of Worship (Tiapapata, Samoa) 599
Baha'i House of Worship (Wilmette, Illinois) 573
Baha'i International Community 638
Baha'i World Centre (Haifa, Israel) 431, 638
Baha'i World Centre properties 111
Baha'u'llah 8-10; advent of the religion of the Bab 41-43; in 'Akka 46-50; aspects of
content and style 51-53; covenant of 134-135; and the emergence of the Baha'i
Faith 503-505; family and early life 40-41; the harvest season of His writings 64-
71; illuminated specimen of the writings of 52; in Iraq 43-44; in Istanbul and Edirne
44-46; periodization and principal works 53-71; the Shrine of 49; summer period
of His writings 57-64; the vernal years of His writings 53-57; writing at the
instruction of 89-92; writings of 51-71
Bahji: the mansion of 48-50, 48
balanced living 381-382, 401
Bangladesh 612
being, degrees of 214-215
biodiversity 340- 341
Black people see African Americans
Boicu, Filip xii
Bolodo-Taefi, Vargha xii-xiii
burial practices 279-280
Burma see Myanmar
business 394-395, 404-405; applying Baha'i concepts 404; Baha'i attitude to wealth
397-398; Baha'i teachings relating to 395-397, 403-404; business ethics and work
values 399-400; guidance for 401-402; job and career choices 403; personal
economy 400-401; responsibilities of employers, government, and employees 402-
Call for Universal Peace, The 99
Cambodia 618
career choices 403
Caribbean, the 557, 560, 565
cartels 397
Central Figures 7-16, 638; see also individuals by name
Central Iran 549; see also Iran
children 377-378
China 582-583, 586
civilisation 372
climate change 340
Copyrighted material

coherent life 400-401
collaboration 439
commentaries 89-90
communication, prevalent modes of, in consultation 450-452
communion with God 479-480
community 297-298, 380, 434-435; devotional character of 483; epistemic 413-414
community building 298-300
community development 109-110, 147-149, 596
community life: devotions as part of 484; themes in European Baha'i community life
542-543
competition 396-397
consent for marriage 373-374
constructive action for social change 227
constructive agency 442-449
constructive programme 443-445
consultation 224, 297-298, 376, 438-439; centrality of 453-454; historical approaches
to 452-453; nature, significance, and forms of 454-456; prevalent modes of
expression, communication, and understanding 450-452; qualities of participants in
456-457; and truth 457-460
consumer culture 341-342
contagion and Covenant-breaking 418-419
contentiousness 443
Continental Counsellors 253, 439, 638
cooperation 297-298; global 347
core activities 566-567, 577-578, 588, 632-633, 638
Covenant 7, 10-11, 134-135, 388-389, 423-424,
638-639; the Baha'i Faith as an
epistemic community 413-414; challenges to 421-423; Greater Covenant 409-410;
and infallibility 226; interpretive and epistemic authority in the Baha'i Faith 412-
413; Lesser Covenant 410-412; reframing dissent 414-415; schism and speech acts
420-421
Covenant-breaking 415-417; and contagion 418-419; as disruptive discourse 417-418;
and unity 419-420
criticism 475-478
critique 297-298
culture of learning: drawing insights from science for religious practice 464-466;
evolving conceptual framework
469-471;
institutional arrangements
472-473;
knowledge, power, and criticism 475-478; origins of 466-469; science and religion
as systems of knowledge generation 463-464; universal participation 473-475
curricula, educational 327-330
custodianship of the Hands of the Cause 508
cyclical time 193-194
Copyrighted material

Dahl, Dr. Arthur Lyon xiii
Danesh, Roshan xiii, 353
day of resurrection 35
Day of Ric;lvan 56-57, 298-299, 299
death see afterlife
degrees of being 214-215
Dehghani, Sasha xiii
democracy 355-356
destruction: driving forces for environmental destruction 341-344; of resources 341
development: and consolidation 561-564; and growth 307-308; social and economic
598-601; socioeconomic 523-525
development of the community see community development
development of nations 305-306; challenges ahead 309; debate about economic
growth 306-307; growth and development 307-308; insights from the Baha'i
writings 309-315; new paradigm 315-317
devotional life 4 79-486
devotional meetings 483-484, 639
dialogue 201-203; authoritative teachings 203-204
discourses 262-264; disruptive 417-418
disintegration 389-390
disposition of institution members 439-440
dissent 414-415
disruptive discourse 417-418
distinction, station of 184-185
diversity 354; unity in 240-245
divine Manifestation 192-193
divorce 376-377
doctrines 262-264
ecological principles 338
economics 305-306; challenges ahead 309; debate about economic growth 306-307;
economic development 598-601; growth and development 307-308; insights from
the Baha'i writings 309-315; market economy 396-397; new paradigm 315-317;
personal economy 400-401
ecosystems 340-341
Edirne 44-46, 57-64, 75-77
education 221-222, 319-320; Baha'i-inspired curricula 327-333; the harmony of
science and religion 321-322; Iranian Baha'is' engagement with education 324-327;
the oneness of humanity 322-324; the Primal Will 320-321; the unity of knowledge
election 136-137; and partisanship 224-226
electoral process 437-438
Copyrighted material

elevation of rational thought 213-214
emanation 180-182, 214-215
emancipation of women 396
emotion, spiritual 130-131
employees, responsibilities of 402-403
employers, responsibilities of 402-403
engagement 374
environment
396; basic principles
336-339;
driving forces for environmental
destruction 341-344; environmental problems 339-341; positive directions for the
future 344-347
epistemic authority 412-413
epistemic community 413-414
epistemic humility 212-213
epistemology 161-163
equality of all people 220-221
equality of the sexes 247-256, 372
essential unity, station of 184-185
ethics 37-38, 170-172; business 399-400
Europe: 'Abdu'l-Baha's travels 534; development of Baha'i communities throughout
535-537; direct encounters between Europeans and Babi-Baha'i leaders 533; early
interest in the Babi-Baha'i religions 532-533; first communities in Paris, London,
and Stuttgart 533-534; individual countries 540-542; institutional developments
and growth since the Second World War 538-540; notable European Baha'is 542;
themes in European Baha'i community life 542-543
evolution 337-338
expectation of the Promised One 38-39
experiences, mystical 264-266
expression: freedom of 296-297; prevalent modes of 450-452
external relations 112
family life 252, 377-378; balanced living 381-382; home 378-380; sexuality, gender,
homosexuality, transgender 380-381
Fars 550
fasting 286-287
Fazel, Seena xiii
Feast, Nineteen Day 484-485, 639
freedom of expression 296-297
FUNDAEC (Fundaci6n para la Aplicaci6n y Enseiianza de las Ciencias) 331
gender 380-381
gender equality: exemplifying, implementing, and practising 254-256; and family life
252; historical barriers to 248-250; in public life and Baha'i administration 253-254;
Copyrighted material

requisites and approach to 251-252; see also equality of the sexes
gender identity 380
gender roles 380
Ghaemmaghami, Omid xiii
Gilan 548- 549
global cooperation 347
global governance 343-344, 356-358
'global' stage of the history of the Faith 507-508
God 34, 175-180, 185-186; emanation 180-182, 214-215; 'Greatest Name' of 284-285;
manifestation 182-185; revelation 180-182
God Passes By 119-121
governance 349-358; global 343-344, 356-358
government 387-388; responsibilities of 402-403
government, world 356-358
Greater Covenant 409-410; see also Covenant
'Greatest Name' of God 284-285
Gregory, Louis 241-244, 242
growth, economic: debate about 306-307; and development
307-308;
see also
•
economics
guidance for business 401-402
Guardianship 106-108, 108-112, 112-114; beginnings of 506-507
Gulf ports 550
Gurgan 548-549
Hague, The: tablets to 100
Hamadan 549-550
Hands of the Cause of God 430-432, 639; custodianship of 508
harmony 211-216
Hassall, Graham xiii
Heller, Wendy M. xiv
hermeneutics 36
historiography 511
history: 'global' stage 507-509; historical presence in the Arab world 514-518;
historiography 511; 'international' stage 505-507; in Iran 555-556; 'Islamic' phase
501-505; provincial histories 546-551; in South Asia 603-604; statistics 509-511; in
sub-Saharan Africa 623-626
Hollinger, Richard xiv
home 378-380
homemaking 379-380
homosexuality 380-381
Hong Kong 583, 586-587
human, perfect 182-183
Copyrighted material

human being, nature of 371
human freedom 36
humanity, oneness of 322-324, 385-386
human nature 230-238
human nobility 36-37
humility see epistemic humility
Huququ'llah ('the Right of God') 639
Hutchison, Sandra Lynn xiv
identity card issue 522-523
immanence 178-180
immortality of the soul 277-279
independent investigation 221-222
India 603-610
indigenous peoples 560-561
individual, the 296-297, 435-436; devotional life of 479; the role of 353-354
Indonesia 618-619
industrial justice 402-403
ineffability 212-213
infallibility 226
injustice 442-449
institute process 509, 639
institutional developments and growth 538-540
Institution of the Counsellors 430-432
institutions 7-16, 266-267, 355-356, 428-433; the culture of learning 472-473
integrative process in the world 146-147
intelligentsia, Black Baha'i 242-244
intelligibility of the universe 213-214
interfaith relations 201-209
'international' stage of the history of the Faith 505-507
International Teaching Centre 253, 430-432, 639
interpretive authority 412-413
Iran 72-73, 96, 324-327, 488-495, 546-556
Iranian Constitutional Revolution 96
Iraq 43-44, 53-57
Isfahan 21-22, 549
'Islamic' phase of the history of the Faith 501-505
Islamic Republic of Iran see Iran
Isla.mic Revolution 489-495
Istanbul 44-46, 57-59, 75-76
Japan 584
Copyrighted material

Jordan 523-525
Jordan and Streets 329-330, 333
Junior Youth Spiritual Empowerment Programme 639
justice, industrial 402-403
justice of God 36
Karlberg, Michael xiv, 459
Kashan 549
Kerman 550-551
Kermanshah 549-550
Khamseh 548
Khorasan 547-548
Kluge, Ian xiv
knowledge 475-478; limitations of 272-273; role of 388; science and religion as
systems of knowledge generation 463-464; unity of 322
Korea 584, 588
Kurdistan 54, 549-550
Laos 619
Latin America 557-568
law 149-151; categorization and interpretation
of 366-369; context 361-363; and
gender equality 252-253; marriage 373; operation of 369; purposes of 360-361;
sources and foundations of 363-366
Lawh-i-Khurasan 92
•
leadership 7-16, 355-356, 505-506; of the Universal House of Justice 508-509
learning, approach to 453-454; see also culture of learning
legislation 142-143; see also law
Lesser Covenant 410-412; see also Covenant
Lesser Peace 390- 392, 639
LGBT + 380- 381
life after death see afterlife
life balance 401
lifestyles 344- 345
literature, review of 297-298
London 533-534
Lopez-Claros, Augusto xiv, 356
Love, role in marriage 372-373
Macau 587
Mahmoudi, Hoda xiv-xv
makatfb see tablets
Maku 22-24, 23
Copyrighted material

Malaysia 619
manifestation 175, 177-178, 182-183; vs. emanation 180-182
Manifestations of God 179, 183-186, 639
market economy 396-397
marriage 371-377; see also family life
Mafil!fiqu'l-A,dhkar ('Dawning Place of the Mention of God') 485-486, 639
mashvarah 452-453
-
materialism 341-342, 401
material realms 270-272
material well-being 401
Mathew, Louisa 241, 242
Mazandaran 548-549
Mecca 18-20, 32, 514, 525, 622
meditation 481-482
meetings, devotional 483-484, 639
Memorials of the Faithful 99-100
messages regarding the life and development of society 151-154
metaphor 212-213
Momen, Moojan xv, 91
Momen, Wendi xv, 238
Mongolia 588
morals 375
Most Great Peace 392-393, 640
Mother Temple for South America (Santiago, Chile) 566
Mother Temple of Africa (Kampala, Uganda) 626
Mother Temple of Latin America (Panama City, Panama) 562
Mother Temple of the Antipodes (Ingleside, Sydney) 594
Mother Temple of the Indian subcontinent (New Delhi, India) 609
Mother Temple of the Pacific Islands (Tiapapata, Samoa) 599
Mount, Guy Emerson xv
Myanmar (Burma) 619
mysticism 258-267
names and attributes of God 176-177; manifestations of 184; see also God
nationalism 354
natural world 336-337
nature, appreciation of 336-337
Naw-Ruz 640
Nepal 612
'New Day, The' 299
New Zealand 595-601
Copyrighted material

Nineteen Day Feast 484-485, 639
North America 569-579; Baha'i impact on culture and society 579-580; impact on the
Baha'i world 579
Northeast Asia 581-589
obligatory prayer 283-284, 480-481; see also prayer and prayers
occultation of the Twelfth Imam 35-36
Oceania 591-594; Australia and New Zealand 595-601
oneness 219-228, 322-324; of humanity 385-386
ontology 163-164
oppression: Iranian Baha'is' response to 493-495; root causes of 442-443; see also
religious persecution
Ottoman Baghdad 73-75
Pacific Islands 596-598
Pahlavi period 552
Pakistan 611-612
parenting 377-378
Paris 533-534
participants in a consultation, qualities of 456-457
partisan politics, secular 226-227
partisanship 224-226, 387
peace 98-101, 384-393; advancement of 250-251; the Lesser Peace 390-392; Most
Great Peace 392-393
Pearson, Anne M. xv
pedagogy 319-320; Baha'i-inspired curricula 327-333; the harmony of science and
religion 321-322; Iranian Baha'is' engagement with education 324-327; the oneness
of humanity 322-324; the Primal Will 320-321; the unity of knowledge 322
perfect human 182-183
Perry, Anne Gordon xv
persecution, religious 488-495, 552-553
personal transformation 386-387
personal wealth 400
Phelps, Steven xv
Philippines, the 619
philosophical anthropology 164-166
philosophical proofs 276-279
philosophy 98-101, 159-161; aesthetics 172; epistemology 161-163; ethics and social
philosophy
170-172; ontology
163-164; philosophical anthropology
164-166;
philosophical perspectives on progressivity and religion 197-199; philosophy of
history 168-169; philosophy of religion 166-167; political philosophy 169-170
philosophy, political 169-170
Copyrighted material

philosophy, social 170-172
philosophy of history 168-169
philosophy of religion 166-167
physical dimensions of human nature 230-238
pilgrim's notes 640
political philosophy 169-170
politics 226-227, 387-388
pollution of resources 341
power 475-478; the nature of 433-436
poverty 342-343
prayer and prayers 100-101, 129-130, 282-283; obligatory 283-284, 480-481; and
spirit 481
prejudice, abandonment of 372
Primal Will, the 320-321
principle of the unity of science and religion 211-216, 321
progressive revelation 188-189, 640; aspects of revelation 189-191; linear and cyclical
time 193-194; within the ministry of a Divine Manifestation 192-193; opposition to
new religions 191-192; philosophical perspectives on 197-199; progressivity and
abrogation in other religions 194-197
progressivity 194-197; philosophical perspectives on 197-199
Promised Day Is Come, The 120-121
Prophets 34-35
propagation of the Faith 100
prosperity 305-306, 523-525; challenges ahead 309; debate about economic growth
306-307; growth and development 307-308; insights from the Baha'i writings 309-
315; new paradigm 315-317
protecting the Faith 92-96
public life, gender equality in 253-254
Qajar period 552
Qazvin 548
qualities of institution members 439-440
qualities of participants in a consultation 456-457
Qymm 549
racism 396
rational thought, elevation of 213-214
reincarnation 276-277
relationships 433-436
relativity of religious truth 215-216
religion: drawing insights from science for religious practice 464-466; harmony of
science and 211-216; as a system of knowledge 463-464
Copyrighted material

religious persecution 488-495, 552-553
religious truth, relativity of 215-216
resources, destruction and pollution of 341
responsibilities
of employers,
government,
and employees
402-403;
for the
environment 338-339; of institutions 428-433; of Universal House of Justice 139-
revelation 175, 177-178, 180-186, 294-296; see also progressive revelation
Revolution, Islamic 489-491
Ric;lvan 56-57, 298-299, 299, 640
Rumelia 57-64
Sabet, Behrooz 328-330, 332
sacred text, inviolability of 140-141
Saiedi, Nader xv, 91
Sakhalin 588
schism 420-421
science: drawing insights from science for religious practice 464-466; harmony of
religion and 211-216; as a system of knowledge generation 463-464
scope 118-119
Secret of Divine Civilization, The 90-91
secular partisan politics 226-227
Sergeev, Mikhail xv
service 375, 482-483
sex 375
sexes, equality of 247-256
sexuality 380- 381
Shiraz 21-22
Shoghi Effendi 13-14, 107; and the beginnings of the Baha'i Guardianship 506-507;
collective letters to the Baha'is of the East 126-131; death of 115, 508; early
Guardianship 108-112; early life and education 105-106; English-language writings
of 117-123; late Guardianship 112-114; legacy of 115; ministry of 518-519; Persian
writings of 125-132; style 118-119; transition to Guardianship 106-108
Sikkim 610
Singapore 619-620
Smith, Derik xvi
Smith, Peter xvi
Smith, Todd xvi
social change 227
social development 598-601
social evolution 145-146
social philosophy 170-172
society: life and development of 151-154
Copyrighted material

socio-economic development and prosperity 523-525
Some Answered Qyestions 93-94
soul, the: Baha'i burial practices 279-280; Baha'i notion of afterlife 270-276; Baha'i
philosophical proofs 276-279; historical background 269-270
South Asia 603-612
Southeast Asia 614-620
speech acts 420-421
Spiritual Assemblies 485, 640; Europe 539; local 428-429; National 429-430
spiritual dimensions of human nature 230-238
spirituality 282-288
spiritual practices 282-288
spiritual realms 270-272, 272-273, 273-274
spousal abuse 376
spread of the Baha'i Faith 110-111, 551-552
Sri Lanka 610-611
Stockman, Robert H. xvi
statistics 509-511, 620
study circles 640
Stuttgart 533-534
sub-Saharan Africa 622-633, 634, 635
sustainability
339; basic principles
336-339;
driving forces for environmental
destruction 341-344; environmental problems 339-341; positive directions for the
future 344-347; production and consumption 346; sustainable business practices
symbolic descriptions 273-274
Tablet of a Thousand Verses 95
Tablet of the East and the West, The see Tablet of the Two Calls to Success and
Prosperity
Tablet of the Two Calls to Success and Prosperity 96
tablets 94-96, 640; see also specific tablets
Tablets of the Divine Plan 100-101
Tablet to Dr Auguste Forel 100
Taiwan 583, 587-588
teachings: of the Bab 29-39; relating to work and business 403-404; safeguarding the
integrity of 140-141; on social conditions relating to work and business 395-397
Tehran 546-547
Thailand 620
theology 159-161; aesthetics 172; epistemology 161-163; ethics and social philosophy
170-172; ontology 163-164; philosophical anthropology
164-166; philosophy of
history 168-169; philosophy of religion 166-167; political philosophy 169-170
time, linear and cyclical 193-194
Copyrighted material

Tobey, Mark 299, 301, 582-583
transcendence 178-180
transformation, personal 386-387
transgender 380-381
transsexuals 381
Traveler's Narrative, A 91-92
Treatise on Politics 92-93
truth 221-222; and consultation 457-460
typology 31-34
understanding: prevalent modes of 450-452
unemployment 396
unfoldment of the Faith 141
unity 92-96, 134-135, 219-228, 371; and Covenant-breaking
419-420; in diversity
240-245; of knowledge 322; see also station of essential unity
Universal House of Justice 14-16, 138, 134-143, 145-154, 640; leadership of 508-509
universal participation 473-475
universe, intelligibility of 213-214
unknowability 177-178
Yafai, Shahin xvi
values 375; work values 399-400
van den Hoonaard, Will C. xvi
Vietnam 620
wealth 397-398
wedding 374-375
well-being, material 401
West, the: expounding Baha'u'llah's principles in 96-98
White, Christopher xvi
Will and Testament of 'Abdu'l-Baha 93
women: advancement of 250-251; emancipation of 396; see also equality of the sexes
work 394-395, 398-399, 404-405; applying Baha'i concepts 404; Baha'i attitude to
wealth 397-398; Baha'i teachings relating to 395-397, 403-404; business ethics and
work values 399-400; job and career choices 403; personal economy 400-401;
responsibilities of employers, government, and employees 402-403
world government 356-358
world order 350; 'lamentably defective' 350-353
World Order of Baha'u'llah,
The 121
worship, role in devotional life 482-483
writings: of 'Abdu'l-Baha 88-101; and art 291-294; of the Bab 29-39; of Baha'u'llah
51-71; and economics
309-315; of Shoghi Effendi 117-123,
125-132; of the
Copyrighted material