An expanded, annotated version of
IN THE LIGHT OF THE RISING SUN
Memoirs of a Bahá’í Pioneer to Japan
by  Barbara R. Sims

E-book In the Light of the Rising Sun: Memoirs of a Baháʼí Pioneer to
Japan reviewed and approved by the National Spiritual Assembly of
the Baháʼís of Japan
(Approved July 2020)
© 2019 Sheridan A. Sims
All rights reserved

Barbara R. Sims, Tokyo Baháʼí Center, 1961
cover of the original book

Contents
(page numbers are PDF)
Foreword  5
Preface  7
Mary Elizabeth Steuben Burland  8
Father’s side  14
Bahá’í life Stateside  16
Following the sun  23
Early years of the Bahá’í Faith in Japan  26
Arrival and impressions  29
Tokyo L.S.A.  45
Nikko Conference  55
North East Asia  58
The International Convention and the 1960s  64
1970s, ’80s and ’90s  70
“If you want to preserve something, publish it”  77
(Re)search  82
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s prayer for the Japanese 85
Ichi Kamichika 95
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s tablets to Japan 87
Takeo Hasegawa 95
Kenzo Torikai 88
The Rev. Nobuichiro Imaoka 96
Saichiro Fujita’s relatives 91        Daisetz and Beatrice Suzuki 97
Kanichi Yamamoto’s relatives 92        Hong Kong and Macau 98
Kikutaro Fukuta’s sons 93
The Archives 101
Vasily Eroshenko 94
Some extraordinary Bahá’ís who visited Japan  102
‘Amatu’l-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum 104
Collis Featherstone 135
Tarazullah Samandari 119
Other Hands of the Cause 136
Agnes Alexander 121
Univ. House of Justice members 137
Rahmatullah Muhajir 125
Yankee Leong 140
Enoch Olinga 132       The Katirais, Moghbels, and Momtazis 142
Abul-Qasim Faizi 133
Final chapter  142
Photographs  146
Appendix: 1968 International Convention photos  164
Notes  184

Foreword
This PDF document is an expanded and annotated version of In
the Light of the Rising Sun, a memoir by long-time Baháʼí pioneer to
Japan, Barbara R. Sims. The original book was issued in Tokyo by
the Baháʼí Publishing Trust of Japan in early 2002, just before Ms.
Sims passed away that April.
This PDF version of Barbara Simsʼ memoir was prepared by
her son, the undersigned. This document is a personal project of the
undersigned, and has not been created under the auspices of the
Japan Baháʼí Publishing Trust.
Ms. Sims worked on her memoir 2000-1 but did not ﬁnish
several sections of it; also, no doubt she would have liked to run
through the entire account for ﬁnal editing. Terminal illness, however,
prevented her from completing her work. One wishes, in particular,
that she had been able to give more anecdotes and stories of the
many extraordinary persons she was privileged to meet, ranging from
Saichiro Fujita to Agnes Alexander to Rahmatullah Muhajir to
ʻAmatuʼl-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum. Also interesting, at a practical level,
would have been any insight Ms. Sims could share on an issue she
touches on here and there in her memoir: the critical need to consoli‐
date teaching achievements through deepening.
In order to ﬁll out some sections of Ms. Simsʼ memoir, the editor
has incorporated to this PDF document much of the content of a
notebook and some papers that Ms. Sims kept over the years of
jottings and musings and reminiscences of Baháʼí visitors to Japan
and summaries of talks they gave: Ms. Sims herself made little use of
that material for her memoir, because, basically, she ran out of time.
The editor has rearranged some of the original memoir text, in
order to achieve a better chronology and ﬂow of subject matter.
Typos and other mistakes the editor detected in the original have
been corrected. Although there are many names, neither the original
memoir nor this document has an index, but PDF allows for easy
search. Editorial notes have been added at the end of this document;
neither this foreword nor the endnotes are part of the original memoir,
and have been differentiated by font from the main text. The editorial
notes are indicated in the main text by a numeral enclosed in brack‐
ets; numerals in italics following the note numbers are the PDF
document page numbers of the relevant endnotes. In Notes the page

number of the passage in the main text to which a note pertains has
also been given in italics. (Thus, in the main text [8;185] means see
note 8 on page 185; in Notes 8;19 means note 8, pertaining to text on
page 19.) A few of the editorʼs notes digress from the subject matter
of the main text, but (nearly) always stay on the Baháʼí Faith and/or
Japan; the notes have been placed at the back of this document so
that they can be readily ignored by the reader. The editor has doubt‐
less made mistakes and failed to catch them in the course of editing,
typing, and proofreading text, and these will, it is hoped, be discov‐
ered and corrected over time.
Photographs from In the Light of the Rising Sun have been
scanned and included herein. The photos are somewhat unclear,
because they were that way in the memoir and were scanned as
such for this document, but also because some clarity was lost
during scanning and upon conversion to PDF. The editor will eventu‐
ally make better scans from the original photos, once he has located
them all. The order of the photos herein (chronological) follows that of
the memoir but the formatting does not. As is apparent, the editor has
not gone to great trouble formatting the photos.
The editor has taken the liberty of adding an appendix contain‐
ing photographs from an album Barbara Sims made of the 1968
International Convention in Haifa and of travels after it. She made
several albums of International Conventions and personal
pilgrimages, and these photos have been included as representative.
With the above-mentioned added notebook content, editorial
endnotes, and appendix, this PDF document amounts to a consider‐
ably expanded version of the original published memoir.
Barbara Sims refers in her memoir to books she compiled or
edited. These are online at www.bahai-library.com/East-asia.
Sheridan A. Sims, editor
March 2018
Postscripts:   March 2019—The editor has made a number of minor
revisions to this PDF document since March 2018, including after 1
January 2019, when it was ﬁrst posted to Baháʼí Library Online. The
editor thanks his sister, Sandra Sims Fotos, for her comments on the
document.   May 2019—Further minor revisions made to foreword,
main text, and endnotes.   8/19, 2/20, 3/20, 4/20, 5/20—Ditto.

Preface
The Japanese name for their country is Nihon or Nippon. The
name is written with two kanji characters, the ﬁrst meaning “sun” and
the second “source”. The literary translation is “Land of the Rising
Sun”.
In December 1953 I followed the setting sun across the sea and to
a new world. I crossed the Paciﬁc Ocean from California, U.S.A. to
Japan, in response to the appeal to Bahá’ís from Shoghi Effendi in his
Ten-Year Crusade to establish the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh all over the
world. As my ship entered Tokyo Bay dawn was breaking. For me it
was truly the dawn of a new day.
This is an account of my life as a Bahá’í pioneer in Japan, along
with family background and American reminiscences. It is intended as
a sort of record for family and friends and whoever else may be inter-
ested. I do not go into lots of detail either about Bahá’í affairs or about
myself. The former subject is discussed in the books I have compiled,
and I am sure it will be more fully elaborated by future historians. As
for the latter subject, what is here in these pages should sufﬁce.
To Bahá’u’lláh for His blessings I offer my humblest thanks,
especially for allowing me to serve His Cause in Japan.
Barbara Helen Rutledge Sims
Tokyo, January 2002

Mary Elizabeth Steuben Burland
When the Master, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, toured the United States and
Canada in 1912 He gave numerous talks, and in several of those He
referred to the localities or regions He was visiting. He also speciﬁcally
addressed the various states and Canada in the Tablets of the Divine
Plan. I am particularly interested in what the Master said about Califor-
nia, as my Bahá’í line is one of the earliest in that state. He said Califor-
nia was a “blessed state”, compared it physically to the Holy Land
saying it was “like unto a delectable paradise”, and spoke of its “fertili-
ty and richness”. In a talk given in California and recorded in Promul-
gation of Universal Peace He remarked that the Californians were a
“noble people”, hoped they would “make extraordinary progress and
become renowned for their virtues”, and said further:
Then may altruistic aims and thoughts radiate from this
center toward all other regions of the earth, and may the
glory of this accomplishment forever halo the history of
this country. May the ﬁrst ﬂag of international peace be
upraised in this state.
(The United Nations, of course, came into being in San Francisco in
1945.) ‘Abdu’l-Bahá also stated in a tablet found in a Star of the West
volume:
The future of California, whether in regard to its material
affairs or spiritual affairs, is very important. It is my hope
that the people of California may become the sons and
daughters of the Kingdom and be the means of promoting
the religion of God.
California has accounted for a great number of Bahá’í pioneers, and
they include the granddaughter and great-granddaughter of an early
California Bahá’í, who left their home state in 1953 to serve the Cause
in Asia. Surely the Master’s mere mention of “promoting the religion of
God” has enabled all pioneers’ endeavors everywhere.
At the time ‘Abdu’l-Bahá toured California, Mary Elizabeth
Steuben was living in Visalia, where she had been born in 1868.
Visalia is about in the center of California, in the San Joaquin Valley.

Mary was my mother’s mother and she was a big part of my childhood,
sometimes living with us. We kids called her Nana; her old friends and
the Bahá’ís called her Mollie. I’ll call her Mary in this memoir. She is
my Bahá’í forebear and here is her story as my mother, Helen Burland
Rutledge, told it to me.
Mary Steuben’s grandparents came to California from Oneida
County, New York in 1857, settling in Visalia. They were among the
tens of thousands of “pioneers” who crossed the American continent in
the mid-1800s to seek a better life or who were just adventurous.
Mary’s grandfather was named William North Steuben, and her father,
Zane Steuben. (I remember hearing that Zane’s middle name was either
Alasnam or Erasmus, but that he refused to admit to either. It turned out
to be Alasnam.) Mary had two brothers, and a sister who died in child-
hood. Mary’s brothers, my great-uncles Will and John, were small, like
Mary, and one had asthma, the family curse, a condition I inherited.
In 1849 William North Steuben ﬁrst journeyed without his family
to California to prospect in the gold ﬁelds. He was not successful and
returned home, but he did not lose his dream. Eight years later he took
his family with him to California. He kept a diary of his ﬁrst journey,
and he comes across as a very decent man; I can see that he had highly
spiritual qualities. (The original diary was donated to the Bancroft
Library of the University of California at Berkeley.) In 1858 William
North Steuben became the ﬁrst agent in Visalia of the newly-estab-
lished Wells Fargo Express Company. He and his wife, Catherine
Hamilton Steuben, were charter members of the First Methodist
Church, established the same year in Visalia.
Mary’s husband, John Granville Burland, whom she called Jack,
was from Austin, Texas. He had contracted yellow fever in Texas,
which weakened him, and he passed away from tuberculosis in Visalia,
at age 34 in 1895. He dearly loved his wife, and as he lay dying he said
that he so regretted leaving Mary with two small children, Helen and
Elmer, and seven months pregnant with Frank. (They had lost one
child shortly after its birth.) Mary tried to keep the memory of “Papa
Jack” alive for her children by talking about him and showing his
photograph, but my mother Helen said she actually had no personal
memory of her father, as she was age 2 when he died.

One day in 1911 a salesman came to Zane Steuben’s ofﬁce at
Wells Fargo in Visalia, where Mary was working as a clerk, to trace a
shipment of Borden milk that had gone astray. After discussing the
matter with Mary, the salesman asked her what her religious beliefs
were. Mary was surprised to be asked about such a personal matter by
a stranger, but answered that she had investigated many things, the
most recent being Theosophy and Christian Science, but her searches
had all ended in a blank wall and, she added, all she could be sure of
was that God exists. The man said “Then you are ready to hear about
the Bahá’í Faith.” After a brief introduction of the history and princi-
ples of the Faith, he had to leave, as he was traveling on business, but
he gave Mary the addresses of Bahá’ís in San Francisco. The man was
John Henry Hyde Dunn, later to be appointed Hand of the Cause.
There were no Bahá’ís in Visalia, and Mary did not embrace the
Faith right away. In 1913, however, she moved to San Francisco, and
after contacting the Bahá’ís there she accepted the Faith. According to
Helen, one of the factors in Mary deciding to move to San Francisco
was that she could not forget what Mr. Dunn had told her about Bahá’í.
Mary just missed ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit, as He was in San Francisco in
the autumn of 1912, but she wrote to Him. Unfortunately we don’t
have a copy of her letter.[1;184]
‘Abdu’l-Bahá replied with a tablet which came directly to Mary’s
address at 929 Pine St. Mary sent the original to the U.S. Bahá’í
National Archives in the 1930s, and I wrote to the Archives for a copy.
The tablet was in Persian, of course, and the following is the translation
that accompanied it:
To the maid servant of God, Mary S. Burland, San Fran-
cisco, Calif.
Upon her be Baha-ollah El Abha
He is God!
O thou who art guided by the Light of Guidance!
Thy letter was received. As I have no time I will
answer it brieﬂy. Peter the apostle was a ﬁsherman. As
soon as he entered the Kingdom of God he became the
ﬁsher of men. Follow thou likewise in his footsteps and be
thou conﬁdent in the conﬁrmations of God.

Upon thee be Baha El Abha.
(Sig) Abdul Baha Abbas
Trans by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab Nov. 21st 1913 Ramleh,
Egypt
Mary plunged into the activities of the community and soaked up
the spirit. The San Francisco Bahá’ís usually rented a hall and had their
Feasts and other meetings there, with good attendance, generally 30 to
50 people. Often the San Francisco, Oakland and Berkeley Bahá’ís
held joint events, such as Unity Feasts. Meanwhile Mary’s daughter
Helen, my mother, married Harry Edward Rutledge, my father, in
1913. Helen moved to San Francisco, where Harry worked, and
withdrew from the teacher’s college in San Jose she was attending.
Mary managed an apartment house in San Francisco, and she
took in and looked after several Bahá’í women, among them Clara
Davis, Ella Robarts, Isabel Munson, Auntie Gross—familiar Bahá’í
presences then, now long since gone to the Kingdom. Helen said she
remembered when Mary took in Louis Gregory; he was to become the
ﬁrst Hand of the Cause of African descent.[2;184]
Clara Davis had come to San Francisco from Seattle, where she
heard about the Faith from a friend, the aforementioned John Henry
Hyde Dunn. Clara was living in one of Mary’s apartments. Clara had
some personal problems in those days. One night a voice said to Mary
“A wonderful soul has left your home and is wandering about.” Mary
got right up and went outside, where she found Clara ambling down
the street. It was a time of tests for the great woman, who nevertheless
overcame them and in the years ahead was to become known as
“Mother Dunn” to the Australian Bahá’í community. It was Clara who
spent many hours with Helen and conﬁrmed her in the Faith. Helen
became a Bahá’í in 1916, and Clara gave Helen a butterﬂy pendant to
commemorate the occasion. I treasure it now.
Clara Davis and John Henry Hyde Dunn were married in 1917.
Some time after they married they moved to Santa Cruz. Helen went to
stay with them for a couple of months, taking me and my sister Mar-
garet. I was a small sickly baby then. I was born in April 1918, and
was very ill the ﬁrst few weeks. Six weeks after birth I had an opera-
tion for pyloric stenosis, which is an abnormal constriction of the

passage from the stomach to the small intestine. Because that condition
was relatively unknown I was in bad shape before a diagnosis was
made and an operation performed. If I had not been born in San Fran-
cisco, where there was up-to-date medical care, I probably would not
have survived. In fact, it was generally assumed I wouldn’t—by that
time Clara and Helen were quite close, and Helen remembered clearly
Clara comforting her saying “Some souls are born into this world so
pure that they do not have to endure the trials of life.” Well, of course, I
survived, I am not sure how pure I am, and I certainly have endured the
trials of life, but Helen said that my early suffering may have somehow
been a blessing for me. I’ll take her word for it.
Helen said Clara knew her husband’s high station even in those
early days. John Henry Hyde Dunn was appointed Hand of the Cause
posthumously, but Clara was appointed Hand during her lifetime.
Helen said that John was a wonderful person and that Clara had a
warmth that especially drew people to her. Some years later the Dunns
pioneered to Australia and became the spiritual parents of that country’s
Bahá’í community, and some years after that I pioneered to Japan—
two countries that were to be inextricably linked by the Guardian’s
designation of them as the two poles of a Paciﬁc “spiritual axis”.
Through the years my grandmother Mary was always active in
the Faith. She was a member of the Local Spiritual Assembly of San
Francisco for I don’t know how long. There is a photo in The Bahá’í
World Vol. VI taken in 1935 of the L.S.A., with three races on it,
Asian, African, and European. The L.S.A. included Leroy Ioas, future
Hand of the Cause and secretary to Shoghi Effendi, and Mamie and
Anthony Seto—Tony Seto being the ﬁrst Chinese-American Bahá’í
and Mamie later to serve on the U.S. N.S.A. I was to see Tony and
Mamie years later in Japan, in what ended up being sad circumstances.
In the 1920s Mary Burland was living in Berkeley, across the
Bay from San Francisco, and as secretary of that L.S.A. received a
letter from the Guardian, which follows. The original of this letter was
in the family papers and I sent it to the Bahá’í World Center Archives.

August 28, 1926
Dear Spiritual Sister:
Shoghi Effendi wishes me to acknowledge the re-

ceipt of your letter sent on behalf of the Berkeley Assem-
bly. He desires me to assure you of his earnest prayers &
hope that this small assembly of yours may soon, through
your constant labour & God’s inﬁnite blessing, develop to
be an important center. A center whose light will shine to
other regions & cause the guidance & deliverance of many
souls.
Though it depends upon the life & service of the
individual friends whether the Cause will develop & attain
its goal, yet much rests upon the Assembly. Its duty is to
administer to the needs of the Cause in that locality &
encourage & stimulate the friends to true service & devo-
tion. As the group grows & their needs increase the task of
the Assembly will become greater & more of a responsible
nature. Difﬁculties may arise, disharmony may set in. But
such trivialities should not in the least discourage those
who are at the helm. It is in weathering storms that the
captains of a ship show their worth & their faith in their
work.
In closing may I reassure you & the other members of
the Assembly, Shoghi Effendi’s loving greetings.
Yours in His service,
Ruhi Afnan
[in Shoghi Effendi’s handwriting:]
My dear co-worker:
I wish to add a few words in order to assure you in
person of my prayers for the success of your efforts to
promote & consolidate our beloved Cause. May our
Beloved cheer you, strengthen you & guide you in your
labours for Him. Your true brother, Shoghi
There was another letter written by the Guardian to Mary Burland
when she was secretary of the L.S.A. of Santa Barbara, but it was not
in her effects. The information was given to me by the Department of
Library and Archival Services at the Bahá’í World Center. They knew
a letter had been written but did not have a copy. It was dated 1 May
1937, addressed to Mary in her capacity as secretary.

When I was in the Holy Land at one of the International Conven-
tions, Marion Holley Hofman, wife of then Universal House of Justice
member David Hofman, and I were talking. I had known Marion many
years earlier in California. She reminded me “Your grandmother took
my mother [Grace Holley] to her ﬁrst Bahá’í meeting in Visalia.” Mary
and Grace were friends, and one time Mary and Isabella Brittingham—
a well-known Bahá’í speaker, named a Disciple of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá by
the Guardian—took a trip to Visalia to teach. It was really Ms. Britting-
ham[3;184] who taught Grace Holley, but they were introduced by
Mary.
The last time I saw Mary was in 1953 on my way home from a
couple of weeks at the Geyserville Bahá’í Summer School. She was
living in a retirement home in San Francisco, in her mid-80s, and ill,
but she was glad to see me and my 10-year-old daughter Sandra. I told
Mary of my intention to go pioneering and she was delighted to hear it.
I had yet to consult with my husband, who was not a Bahá’í (concern-
ing pioneering and husband more below), and I conﬁded in Mary that I
was going to talk to him when I returned home and try to persuade him
to accompany me to a pioneer post. I recall her looking at me intently
and saying “You will get there.”
Mary passed away after I had been in Japan almost three years.
My mother wrote me the details, and I remember how sad she felt as
her mother lay in bed near death. Mary was not senile, but seemed to
be partly in the next life. Helen said one day near the end Mary said to
her “I have just had such a nice visit with Jack.” (Husband Jack had
been dead for about 60 years.) Either it was a dream or she was indeed
slipping into the next life—probably the latter. At that time my son
Sheridan was just a month old, and I recall reminding Helen in a letter
that as the old generation passes on the new is born. She said that
comforted her.
Father’s side
My father Harry Edward Rutledge never became a Bahá’í,
although I would like to think he believed. I remember my grandmother
Mary telling me—this must have been in the 1940s—“Harry knows.”
My father did a great deal of reading about the Bahá’í Faith; in fact, he

did a great deal of reading period. He was one of the most well-read
persons I knew. Harry had a very studious nature: for example, he
learned Middle English so he could read Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales
in the original. After he retired from a managerial position with the
Paciﬁc Telephone Company, he did many of the things he was interest-
ed in, including book-binding, as he was fond of books. In 1990 I
donated some of the Bahá’í books he bound for wife Helen, which I
inherited, to the Sakhalin, Russia Bahá’í community, and presumably
the books are now in their library. Harry also learned how to upholster
furniture as a hobby.
In his later years Harry turned to research and writing. He pre-
pared an edited version of the original overland diary of Helen’s
aforementioned great-grandfather, William North Steuben, kept while
he traveled the California Trail across the plains to the gold ﬁelds in
1849. That was called The Overland Journal of William North
Steuben. He also compiled Casualties on the California Trail, a rather
poignant account taken from many overland diaries of the numerous
grave-markers and their epitaphs the diarists recorded on the Trail.
Harry’s passion was genealogy, and he spent countless hours at such
places as the Bancroft Library at the University of California and the
library of the California Genealogical Society in San Francisco. He
constructed large, elaborate family genealogical charts that took up far
more space than the dining table and went back many, many genera-
tions. He became known for this expertise and had people unrelated to
him ask him to construct their genealogies.[4;184]
Harry’s mother’s parents immigrated from Germany in the 1890s
and lived in Kansas. His mother, Bertha Schweder, married John
Rutledge, of Scotch-Irish and English ancestry. Bertha passed away
when Harry and his sister were very young, and they were brought up
by an aunt, Mary McSorley, who was a second mother to the children.
The character of the family was Grandpa, Harry’s father, John
Edward Alexander Rutledge. When I knew him, Grandpa’s second
wife had passed away and the second set of kids had left and he was
living alone. He worked a gold mine in the hills of Tuolumne County
in California, sharing a cabin with his cat. He used to swing the cat
around by the tail and toss it up on the roof of his cabin—he said the

cat enjoyed it! I remember Grandpa pulling out his own teeth. He had a
piece of metal embedded in his hand, clearly visible, and one day he
pulled that out too. Grandpa was a pretty tough old guy. For that
matter, my mother’s side of the family was tough too. Tough, idiosyn-
cratic, intelligent, adventurous—a common breed in the American West
in those days.
Bahá’í life Stateside
My immediate family consisted of my father, Harry Edward
Rutledge, my mother, Helen Hart Burland Rutledge, a second-genera-
tion Bahá’í, and their ﬁve children. My parents were living in San
Francisco when my sister Margaret Marie (later Cavanaugh,
1914-1996), and I (1918)[5;184] were born. Because of my father’s job
we moved to Mill Valley, north of San Francisco, for a time and then to
Stockton, in the San Joaquin Valley, where my three brothers were
born: Edward Burland (1922)[6;184] and twins David Schweder and
Hal Granville (1924).
One of my earliest recollections is of my grandmother Mary
standing at the foot of my bed with her eyes closed praying for my
sister and me. I remember Margaret used to read me to sleep at night.
What a nice older sister she was! The twins adored her as she used to
take care of them. She took piano lessons and liked to play, and when-
ever she did I would start to cry. When I was asked why I said it was
so beautiful that it made me sad. Music still often makes me feel sad.
I never really had to accept the Faith; it was always there, a part
of life, as natural as each breath. We children were brought up with the
awareness that we were Bahá’ís, we learned prayers, and we believed.
Mary’s presence was crucial in those days. She lived with us for
periods, and she was very much committed to the Teachings and the
need to follow the Laws. Sometimes, frankly, we didn’t fully under-
stand what she was saying or doing, as we were just kids, but she had a
great inﬂuence on us.
There were no Bahá’ís in Stockton when we moved there in the
early 1920s, but my mother Helen as well as Mary would talk to us
kids about the Faith. Among my memories of the years in Stockton is
reading Bahá’í literature sent to us kids by Ella Cooper, the wealthy

Oakland Bahá’í; also, when Jenabe Fazel[7;185], the famed Iranian
Bahá’í speaker, visited Stockton Helen arranged for him to speak at the
College of the Paciﬁc. My brother Ed hasn’t been able to ﬁnd any
record of this visit, though our memory of it is clear. It was perhaps
Helen’s greatest service in that town.
In the early 1930s we moved to Berkeley after my father was
transferred to the San Francisco Bay Area. There was a strong Bahá’í
community in Berkeley and we were in the midst of activities. Through
the years Helen served as secretary of the L.S.A. of Berkeley, a respon-
sibility she fulﬁlled devotedly. In the 1920s Mary had been secretary of
the same Assembly.
Helen always said that attending Geyserville Bahá’í School
conﬁrmed us children in the Faith. Mary and Helen are in published
photos of the earliest meetings there and in later years as well. Original-
ly it was the property of John and Louise Bosch, amid orchards near
the small town of Geyserville. The Bosches donated the property to the
National Spiritual Assembly but continued living there as caretakers. It
was about 80 miles north of San Francisco and could be conveniently
reached by automobile or train. Louise Bosch and Helen were close,
and Louise did special things for my mother and her brood such as
reserving the “cook house” for us. It was a large building with an old-
fashioned kitchen and several guest-rooms.
We would go up to Geyserville every summer for several weeks.
As I recall it was a while before they offered classes speciﬁcally for
youth, but the atmosphere of the School was marvelous and we kids
could attend the adults’ sessions. The East Coast and Chicago were
days away by train, and although we knew the names of Bahá’ís there
we seldom saw them—they had their own schools. More or less full-
time travel-teachers would come through periodically, so there was
some spiritual cross-pollination with the friends elsewhere. At classes
knowledgeable people lectured for one or two hours; there was no
concept yet of “workshops” where everyone participated. Perhaps the
best part of it as far as most of the kids were concerned was the cama-
raderie with other kids and going swimming in the Russian River.
It’s one thing to read or hear about the spiritual dimension, but it’s
another to experience it. One time when I was in my teens I had a

“spiritual experience” at Geyserville. Not to say that it was overwhelm-
ing, just that I brieﬂy felt a non-material presence. It was under the
well-known “big tree” while we youth were helping to serve lunch. It
is hard to explain and I cannot say anything more that is meaningful
about it, but it was very real and I have never forgotten it. (I’m pretty
sure it wasn’t simply a matter of being hungry at lunchtime.)
In California in my youthful days there were several people who
were to be appointed Hands of the Cause who were prominent in the
programs at Geyserville. Freddie Schopﬂocher used to treat us kids to
sodas. Leroy Ioas was from Chicago but lived and worked in San
Francisco and came to Geyserville every season, always the featured
speaker. (There was a personal connection: my oldest brother Edward
married Lois, daughter of Leroy’s sister Viola Ioas Tuttle.) Bill Sears,
too, and his wife Marguerite were often at Geyserville. He was then a
sports reporter at a San Francisco radio station.
Living as a teenager in Berkeley I had the opportunity of meeting
many wonderful persons both there and across the bay in San Francis-
co. I remember two very dear women, Ella Bailey and Kathryn Frank-
land, in particular. Kathryn Frankland had a strong attractive, or attract-
ing, quality to her. Kathryn brought Saichiro Fujita into the Faith.
There are accounts written of that. When he was a teenage immigrant
from Japan he went to work for her, and it changed his life. A few
years later he met ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and was asked by Him to serve in the
Holy Household in Haifa. It is a fascinating story. I ﬁrst met Mr. Fujita
in Japan in 1954. He was quite small even for a Japanese of his time,
but he had plenty of conﬁdence and conducted himself as a man of the
world, which he certainly was. I also saw him during the International
Conventions in the Holy Land. When this mild unassuming individual
passed away in 1976 the Universal House of Justice cabled this mes-
sage (in part): “His dedication humility sincerity love will forever be
remembered and provide shining example to rising generations Japa-
nese Bahá’ís who will view with pride distinction conferred upon him.”
Kanichi Yamamoto, the ﬁrst Japanese Bahá’í, came into the Faith
in Hawaii in the early 1900s but was deepened by Kathryn Frankland
after he moved to Oakland and then to Berkeley with his family.
Kathryn’s warm welcome of this family, I am sure, meant much to

them. In those days it was not usual to be friendly with Japanese or any
minority. Minorities were just that, a minority in every way. The world
has changed considerably since those times, but Kathryn was far ahead.
I’m sure she never considered herself that way—she was just being
herself.
We had youth classes at Kathryn Frankland’s home in Berkeley,
to which Kanichi Yamamoto would bring his children. My sister
Margaret and I would go to Ms. Frankland’s house for our own class,
just after the kids’ class. I remember the Yamamoto kids sitting very
properly, listening to the talk. Their father, who was a gardener and
landscaper by profession, would weed the garden while waiting. Here
were my sister and I, Bahá’ís to be sure but plain teenagers, nothing
special, yet Kathryn had a way of making us feel truly special. I never
felt like a gawky teenager around her. Now that I think about it, proba-
bly everyone was special to Kathryn. Kathryn Frankland was a lovely
person, an absolutely dedicated teacher and pioneer. Her obituary is in
The Bahá’í World, Vol. XIV.
Regarding the Yamamotos, they were members of the Berkeley
community for many years. I have never understood why so little
attention was paid to Kanichi’s ﬁrst wife Ima (correctly pronounced
Eema; the Americans called her Emma). She was a very nice, pretty
woman, liked by all, according to my mother Helen. Ima was not listed
as a Bahá’í, however; she could barely speak English and it seems she
was not paid much consideration. If she had been counted as a Bahá’í
she would have had the distinction of being the ﬁrst Japanese woman
believer. She fell victim to the inﬂuenza epidemic of 1918 while on a
visit to Japan, after having given birth to her sixth child. A few years
later Ima’s sister, Tame (roughly Tah-may), went to California to marry
Kanichi, and she also had six children. Kanichi himself wasn’t given
the recognition that should have been his. He was, after all, the ﬁrst
Japanese Bahá’í. The Yamamoto story with photos is brieﬂy written up
in my book Traces that Remain. Kanichi’s second son, Shinji, an
eminent architect, provided me with some of the photos used in that
book.[8;185]
Speaking of Fujita-san and Yamamoto-san, the former was
always called simply “Fujita” in the West. Americans could not say his

given name, Saichiro, so he gave himself the name Harriston—I wish I
knew where that came from!—but for some reason people took to
addressing him as just “Fujita”. A minor peeve in this regard: Address-
ing someone by the last name alone is not very polite, nor do I care for
the nicknames some American Bahá’ís gave to the two Japanese—
Fudge and Moto. These sound like names given to stereotyped Asian
sidekicks in old Hollywood movies.[9;185]
Ella Bailey lived in Berkeley and pioneered, at age 88, with
Robert Gulick (another Northern Californian) and his wife Bahia to
Tripoli, Libya at the beginning of the World Crusade in 1953. Ella
passed away soon after they reached their post, and the Guardian
extolled her example and designated her a martyr. Ella was one of
those great elderly ladies who were such a prominent part of the
American Bahá’í community when I was growing up. Ella, who had
health and physical difﬁculties, knew sorrow and pain, but was utterly
committed to the Cause. Bill Sears’ account of Ella Bailey and her
passing and what the Guardian wrote on that occasion is one of the best
recorded talks I have ever heard.
The late 1920s and the ’30s were a magical time at Geyserville
School. There was a sort of esprit de corps—how could there not be,
with the likes of Kathryn Frankland, Ella Bailey, Louise and John
Bosch, Leroy Ioas, Bill Sears, Agnes Alexander, Milly Collins, Fred
Schopﬂocher? There were also Tony and Mamie Seto, Marion Holley,
Marzieh Gail, Ali Yazdi, and George Latimer, who gave talks. Many
of the Bahá’ís had met ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and had ﬁrst-hand stories to tell
of Him. Those early times were exceptional—they had to be, as the
Faith was so small and insigniﬁcant in the eyes of the world, and the
small group of Bahá’ís of those days had the responsibility of learning
and carrying forward the Faith in a way that does not exist now—
without the institutional and technological resources of today.
Living in Berkeley was certainly different from Stockton. We
went to many Bahá’í functions in San Francisco and Oakland, always
well-attended by a diverse and interesting group of Bahá’ís. On Sun-
days my mother, sister, and I would go to San Francisco for their
weekly public meeting. At one meeting I gave the talk, for which I
spent hours and hours preparing; the topic was why the world needs

the Bahá’í Faith—hard to go wrong there and, thank goodness, I
didn’t. I went to San Francisco daily for my ﬁrst year of college and
often at lunchtime would go to my grandmother Mary’s apartment
where she lived with her son Frank. At that time I commuted by ferry
under the San Francisco Bay Bridge, which was being constructed. As
I wrote earlier, Mary ran a boarding house, and a number of Bahá’ís,
mostly women, stayed there. In those days many of the believers were
“little old ladies”—I can remember a couple dozen—like Mary herself,
and me now, I suppose. Mary lived with us for a while in Berkeley, but
“the City”, San Francisco, was her town.
In December 1941 Japan attacked the U.S. ﬂeet at Pearl Harbor,
Hawaii and the nation was at war. Earlier that year I had met Charles
Alexander Sims (known to all as Sandy), who was not a Bahá’í. He
had been born in Kobe, Japan, lived there through high school (the
Canadian Academy, established by missionaries, the second oldest
such school in Japan), and was bilingual. His parents, James Grover
Sims of Alabama and Sarah Cox Sims of St. Louis, Missouri, had been
attached to the Methodist Mission in Kobe. His father established a
trading company in Kobe, where Sandy worked after attending univer-
sity in the States. After a year or two Sandy returned to the States,
where he was recruited by the U.S. Navy for his Japanese-language
ability. When I met him he was enrolled in the Navy’s intensive
Japanese-language course at the University of California at Berkeley,
brushing up his reading skills. We decided to marry, despite knowing
Sandy would be sent overseas to war and in harm’s way. In the fall of
1942 he was, and the next year our daughter Sandra was born.
Based in Hawaii, Sandy served in the Paciﬁc on aircraft carriers
as a radio intelligence ofﬁcer attached to several admirals’ staffs until
the war’s end in August 1945. I saw him a couple of times during the
war when he came back to California on leave. Although he was
exposed to great danger on missions, when the task force was attacked
by Japanese aircraft, he did not seem much worse for wear when back
on leave, but when he returned permanently at war’s end it was clear
he had been under great stress—the last few months of the war the task
force had been attacked non-stop, including by kamikaze suicide
planes, off Okinawa and the Japanese mainland. During one attack

members of the admiral’s staff were killed, including Sandy’s best
friend, and Sandy himself was slammed against a bulkhead and had to
squeeze out a porthole to escape being incinerated. Sandy actually left
the combat zone and returned to Hawaii several weeks before the war
ended, and he told me he sat at his desk doing nothing and then lay on
the beach doing nothing every day, de-stressing himself.[10;186]
I lived with my parents in Berkeley while World War 2 raged,
and sometimes stayed with Sandy’s mother in Beverly Hills in southern
California. One time, in 1944 or ’45, while I was in Berkeley, the
eminent Bahá’í speaker Dorothy Baker—later to be appointed Hand of
the Cause—visited California. The L.S.A. assigned me to pick her up
at the train station and be her driver. I recall she warmly greeted the
people who came to meet her and after she got in my car she turned her
whole attention to me and said “Barbara, tell me all about yourself.”
And she meant it. An incredibly charming person, charismatic, and
absolutely sincere.
After the war Sandy, Sandra and I settled in Hollywood, where I
was a member of the Los Angeles Bahá’í community and often attend-
ed events at the L.A. Bahá’í Center. After a couple of years we moved
to Altadena where there was a small community. I was on the Local
Assembly there and learned something about Bahá’í administration, to
my later beneﬁt. Sandy was not particularly interested in the Bahá’í
Faith, and, although brought up in a missionary household, not reli-
gious, but he did not object to my Bahá’í activity; in fact, he generally
liked the Bahá’ís he met and respected the Faith. He kept that attitude
throughout our marriage.
One time, about 1947, there was a call from the treasurer of the
N.S.A. for pledges. I can’t remember speciﬁcally why they needed
funds enough to ask the community to make pledges, but it very likely
was to complete the House of Worship in Wilmette—a project that
seemed to go on forever. I rashly made a pledge for $50, which was
quite a sum in those days—you could probably add a zero to get
today’s value—particularly for a young, relatively poor couple. I did
not tell Sandy about it. I was not working and as time passed I had no
money to pay my pledge and I was worried. One day I was out shop-
ping, driving very slowly looking for a parking place, when a car

suddenly backed out into my car, denting the fender. I remember
thinking that, although I was annoyed, I was going to behave as a
Bahá’í—loving and forgiving—and not make a fuss. An elderly
gentleman got out of his car and apologized for hitting my car. I smiled
and said it was all right, it was an old car and it didn’t matter, forget it.
He said no, he felt bad about it, and he pulled out two 10s and a 5 from
his pocket and insisted I take the money—I might have been loving and
forgiving but I certainly wasn’t about to refuse the offer! One more
dent in my car didn’t matter and I had half my pledge, which I sent off
immediately. I still had 25 dollars to go.
We were barely making ends meet as Sandy made a go at the
music business, and I decided I had to get a job. Daughter Sandra was
attending kindergarten and she would be picked up after school by
Sandy’s mother. I went to an employment agency and they found me a
job in a ceramics plant. With my ﬁrst paycheck I paid the agency
commission and the rest of my pledge. God is merciful to us weak
humans! I worked at that job for a couple of years.
In 1950 we moved to Rolling Hills into an attractive new house
high up in the hills. Sandy, a lieutenant commander in the Naval
Reserve, was called back into active service at the outbreak of the
Korean War, and he was based in nearby Long Beach. Rolling Hills at
that time was out of the jurisdiction of a township and our Bahá’í area
was large, the South Bay Judicial District. I participated in Bahá’í
activities there and in Long Beach, and occasionally in L.A. I also got a
job with the Navy in San Pedro, near our home.
Following the sun
Life in Rolling Hills, California in the early 1950s was comfort-
able and pleasant, but I felt a vague spiritual stirring inside me. In 1953
I attended the Geyserville Summer School, taking daughter Sandra.
The Bahá’ís were all talking about Shoghi Effendi’s recently an-
nounced Ten-Year Crusade—1953 to 1963—which would end in the
Great Jubilee, which was to be celebrated in Baghdád. (As the time for
the conference—to be known as the ﬁrst World Congress—
approached, it was deemed impossible to hold it in Baghdád and the
Hands of the Cause decided to move its location to London.)

The more I heard about the Ten-Year Crusade the stronger the
compulsion I felt to play a part in it and serve the Faith—this compul-
sion, an inner drive, to serve the Faith has continued all through the
years and is as strong now as it was 50 years ago. I felt in my heart that
this was my opportunity to do something for the Faith, and to do it
overseas in one of the goals areas of the Ten-Year Plan, although
money was scarce and international travel a luxury—and my husband
was not a Bahá’í. It seemed impracticable, but I longed to take part in
this Crusade. Bahá’ís were to take the Faith to strange, faraway places.
Some countries mentioned by the Guardian were barely known by
name and identiﬁable on a map to Americans. It is hard now to realize
how remote Asia, Africa, and other foreign locales seemed in those
days.
I considered where I might talk Sandy into going. At Geyserville
that year I saw Agnes Alexander. Her sister lived in Berkeley, and she
usually stayed with her when in the States, and visited Geyserville. I
remember Agnes sitting under the “big tree” telling us about her
pioneer post, Japan. She showed us a photo of a handsome young man
in his school uniform, one of the new Bahá’ís in Japan. (The young
man was Michitoshi Zenimoto, later to be appointed Counsellor, a
friend now of many years.) As Agnes was speaking, it occurred to me
that Japan was the one place I could persuade Sandy to move to. He
had been born and raised in Japan, after all. And Japan was listed as a
goal territory for the U.S. community in the Ten-Year Plan.
At Geyserville that summer of 1953 there were three Bahá’í
women I knew who also longed to go pioneering: Marzieh Gail, Emma
Lawrence, and Vivian Lisota. We four would get together every day
and say prayers for our desire to be fulﬁlled. And sure enough, we
scattered in every direction: Vivian to Africa, Emma to Central Ameri-
ca, Marzieh to Europe, and me to Asia.
When I returned home after Summer School I talked to my
husband. I always prayed ﬁrst before talking to Sandy about Bahá’í
matters. I told him that I wanted to pioneer in one of the places that the
Guardian had identiﬁed as goals and that I was thinking of Japan.
Sandy was quite surprised, and I was even more surprised when he
agreed to go to Japan. He told me later that he had never known me to

be so intensely serious about something. Also he had good memories of
Japan. The timing was just right too. Sandy had been stationed in Long
Beach near our home but he was now getting out of the Navy. He
applied to the federal government for a job but there was a freeze on
hiring. So he was, just during that time, at loose ends, unsure about his
future. It turned out the hiring freeze didn’t last much longer, but by the
time it ended we were gone.
It was to be a permanent move, so we either took our belongings
or sold them. We had two dogs and easily found a home for the cute
young one, but no one wanted the tiny grizzled terrier. My parents had
come to visit us to say a last good-bye and I recall my mother saying a
prayer for the faithful old dog. A couple who lived around the hill from
us came to look at a large cactus we had, and they took it and the dog
too. It seemed that when the wife saw the old terrier she decided she
had owned it in another incarnation, and so our dog joined the couple’s
menagerie as a favored member.
We sold our house to raise the money to go and we made book-
ings on a Swedish motorship, whose name I still remember: Borgholt.
We were to leave in early December 1953. I was anxious to be at my
post before the end of the year. We decided to go to Kobe, as that was
where Sandy was born and grew up; also, the wife of an old mission-
ary friend of his parents was living there, and she could help us get
settled. The Asia Teaching Committee of the U.S. National Spiritual
Assembly advised that if we could go somewhere other than Tokyo it
would be good. We were in contact with the missionary friend and she
said she would put us up while we found a house and work. About two
weeks before we were to leave, however, the woman died suddenly.
We found out later that she had gone to another city to give a lecture at
a university and had been asphyxiated by a gas stove while sleeping in
her hotel room. As we had no one to stay with, we decided to change
our destination to Tokyo. Actually, after we got to Japan, we realized
that, for various reasons, Tokyo was the only place we could have
made it.
I remember the day we departed from Long Beach Port. We
stood on the deck of the ship watching as Rolling Hills, where we had
lived, gradually slipped under the horizon. That night I had one of my

worst-ever asthma attacks. It was strange that in the three years we
lived in Rolling Hills I did not have a single asthma bout. I thought I
was through with that tiresome ailment, but now I realized that I
wasn’t, that it was likely a life-long afﬂiction. Sandy might not have
agreed to leave the States if he had known I was still asthmatic. Well, it
didn’t matter—we were under way, no turning back. Fortunately, I had
asthma medication with me: bronchodilator inhalers. I didn’t feel well
for much of the journey, but I didn’t get seasick as Sandy, a Navy
veteran, and daughter Sandra did.
The Borgholt carried only 12 passengers. Four of the others were
a fundamentalist Christian missionary couple and their two small
children. When they learned I was a Bahá’í they would not let their
kids come near me for fear the devil, who obviously possessed me,
would also possess them! The journey took about two weeks, during
which time I reread God Passes By.
I discovered later that my father placed a notice in one of the
newspapers he subscribed to that stated “Barbara Rutledge Sims Will
Arrive In Japan This Week” and explained I was going there “to
pioneer for the Baha’i group in her husband’s native land.” The fact the
notice was submitted, and actually printed, shows that in those days a
move to a foreign country was considered newsworthy by not only
family but also the press.
Early years of the Faith in Japan
Japan was one of the countries opened to the Faith during the
Ministry of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. In 1909-10 two American Bahá’ís, Howard
Struven and C.M. Remey, made a round-the-world journey for the
purpose of teaching the Faith. Stopping in Japan, they gave the ﬁrst
ever public talk on the Bahá’í Faith in the country, in Tokyo on De-
cember 27, 1909. According to accounts, about 75 persons attended the
talk. The two men went to a few other cities and then on to China. The
Faith received some notice, but no one became a believer.[11;186]
In June 1914, at ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s suggestion, Dr. George Augur, a
homeopathic physician from Honolulu, Hawaii, moved to Japan. He
returned to Hawaii a couple of times, once bringing his wife, Ruth,
back to Japan; they left Japan permanently in 1919. Dr. Augur passed

away in Honolulu in 1927.
Agnes Alexander, also from Honolulu, arrived in Japan Novem-
ber 1, 1914 in response to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s express wish for her to go
there. She left three years later, temporarily, to return to Hawaii. She
went back and forth a total of ﬁve times, over a period of 53 years in
all. Agnes was the ﬁrst Bahá’í in Hawaii. She heard about the Faith in
1900 in Rome, while on a trip to Europe, and she believed. She then
went on to Paris, where there was a strong Bahá’í community, and
embraced the Faith. She always considered May Maxwell, residing in
Paris at the time (as May Ellis Bolles), to be her spiritual mother. In
1957 Agnes was named a Hand of the Cause by the Guardian. Dr.
Augur and Agnes were what we now call “pioneers”, although I don’t
think that word was used in those days. Agnes’ devotion to the Cause
and response to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s call earned her—along with May
Maxwell and Alma Knobloch—an immortal mention by name in the
Tablets of the Divine Plan; Dr. Augur, too, was honored, being named
a Disciple of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá by the Guardian.
In 1915 the ﬁrst person in Japan expressed his desire to become a
Bahá’í. He was an 18-year-old schoolboy, Kikutaro Fukuta. Soon Ms.
Yuri Mochizuki and Mr. Tokujiro Torii became believers. However,
Fukuta et al. were not the ﬁrst Japanese Bahá’ís. There were three
countrymen, all immigrants in the United States, who had become
Bahá’ís earlier: Kanichi Yamamoto in 1902 in Hawaii, a U.S. Territory
at the time, later to live in California; Saichiro Fujita in 1905 in Berke-
ley, California; and Kenzo Torikai a little later in Seattle, Washington.
Because of Agnes Alexander’s efforts the ﬁrst Local Spiritual
Assembly in East Asia was elected in Tokyo in 1932. It was also
elected the following year but not again until after the Second World
War, in 1948. Agnes had to leave Japan in the 1937 because of the
prewar (i.e., World War 2) political situation and did not return until
1950. Over the prewar years, when Agnes Alexander was in Japan
there was a ﬂourishing community, but when she left, as she did a
couple of times, it tended to cease activity, until she returned.[12;186]
The ﬁrst Bahá’í to come to Japan postwar was an American
serviceman, Michael Jamir, in late 1945. He had gotten addresses of a
number of the early Bahá’ís and visited those he could, including

Saichiro Fujita, who had spent the war years in his hometown of
Yanai, in western Japan, and Mr. and Ms. Torii. There was also the
Bahá’í wife of another serviceman, Lorraine Wright, who was in Japan
in 1947.
The ﬁrst Bahá’í to go to Japan after World War 2 expressly for
the purpose of teaching the Faith was Robert Imagire, a second genera-
tion Japanese-American. He came in 1947 and lived in Tokyo, later
moving to the Kansai region to the west. He had written for guidance
to the Guardian, who encouraged him to go to Japan. Robert looked up
the old Bahá’ís, mostly Agnes Alexander’s spiritual children from the
prewar era, and found seekers—thus was the Faith reborn in war-
devastated Japan.
Through Robert Imagire’s efforts the ﬁrst postwar Local Spiritual
Assembly in Japan was formed in Tokyo, in 1948: all Japanese Bahá’ís
plus Robert. When the Guardian was informed of this election he wrote
to Robert that he was “thrilled by your message and I greatly value the
sentiments it expressed. I urge you to persevere and be conﬁdent, and
labour unitedly for the spread of the Faith and the formation of new
centres, however small, in the vicinity of your capital.” The Guardian
subsequently wrote to Robert Imagire directly and to the Spiritual
Assembly of Tokyo encouraging the extension of teaching out of
Tokyo, the translation of Bahá’í literature into Japanese, and the
development of the administration and deepening of the believers in its
workings. Most of Shoghi Effendi’s letters to Robert are printed in
Japan Will Turn Ablaze, kindly provided by him.

In the next few years after the formation of the Tokyo L.S.A. the
Bahá’ís tried to expand the Faith to other areas as the Guardian had
wished. In the Tokyo area, besides Agnes and Robert, there were
David and Joy Earl who arrived in 1952. Those four were pioneers.
There were also some other Americans, with the Armed Forces. In
1952 Agnes decided to move to Kyoto, and soon after, the Katirai,
Moghbel, and Momtazi families arrived in Japan from Iran. They
settled in the Kansai region, around Osaka and Kobe, and have stayed
in Japan since. There were now more pioneers in Japan, including
areas other than Tokyo, but still few Japanese Bahá’ís.
In 1953 the Guardian launched his Ten-Year Crusade. Based on

‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Tablets of the Divine Plan, it encompassed the entire
planet. Actually, it was to be conducted in a coordinated way by the
twelve existing National Spiritual Assemblies in the form of twelve
national plans but on a worldwide scale. Japan was listed as a goal
territory assigned to the N.S.A. of the United States, and we in Japan
were to be assisted and supervised in our efforts by that Assembly. The
Guardian gave goals that the various communities should accomplish
during this ten-year period. Initially he did not assign speciﬁc goals to
the Japan community, as there were hardly any Bahá’ís, but he gave
goals in his general letters concerning the Ten-Year Plan and in letters
to the U.S. N.S.A., such as forming Local Spiritual Assemblies,
acquiring a National Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds, forming a National Spiritual
Assembly, incorporating the Faith, and acquiring endowments, i.e.,
properties held as investments and distinct from land used for Bahá’í
Centers and Summer Schools.
Arrival and impressions

As our ship neared Japan we heard the local broadcasts on our
radio. Of course I couldn’t understand anything but I recall being
surprised that there were so many women announcers, quite in contrast
to American radio then.
December 19, 1953, the day of our arrival at the port of Yoko-
hama, was a cold, cloudy day. I had notiﬁed the Tokyo Spiritual
Assembly of the arrival date, and David Earl, an L.S.A. member, and
Kirby Kent, a U.S. serviceman based in Korea but temporarily in
Japan, were there to meet us. I appreciated their kindness, as I was very
anxious in a strange country. David, who was pioneering in Japan, was
on vacation from the university where he was teaching; David’s wife,
Joy, had returned to the U.S. temporarily.
A business friend of Sandy’s father, Sig Lindstrom, also met us,
and took us to a hotel in mid-Tokyo. We went by train, not car; we had
brought our car with us on the ship but it would take time to clear
Customs. On the train I was surprised to see women sitting on the seats
with their feet tucked under them, Japanese style (and also Persian
style, as the Iranian Bahá’ís sit that way during obligatory prayer). I
have tried to sit that way at times when it was required but it is terribly

uncomfortable. These days many Japanese people, especially the
young ones, can’t sit with feet tucked either.
We stayed at the hotel for a couple of weeks. It was an R-and-R
(rest and recreation) facility for U.S. servicemen stationed in Korea.
[13;187] In the baths, only one to a ﬂoor, there was a distinctive odor of
soap—musky, almost like incense. Even now if I happen to smell soap
with a similar aroma it immediately evokes memories of nearly 50 years
back. We were on the sixth ﬂoor and sometimes when we took a
shower in the bathroom down the hall the water would just stop. I
remember one night after we had been there three or four days the
building began to shake: an earthquake. Of course I had been in
earthquakes before, in California, but seldom and not so violent. I
remember saying to myself “Okay, Japan has earthquakes too; that’s
the way it’s going to be”—and I never did worry about it again. The
Army man running the hotel was very nice and didn’t charge us for
food during the time we were there. That really helped us. You never
forget such kindness.
We left the hotel and for two months moved in with Arthur
Hilburn and his wife as paying guests. The Hilburns were a kind
Methodist missionary couple who had been friends of Sandy’s parents
in Japan many years earlier. Near the missionary compound where the
Hilburns lived was a meat shop and I remember the carcass of a wild
boar hanging out in the open. It seemed so ghastly and strange.
During the days that followed David Earl, who said he wanted to
integrate me into the Bahá’í community as soon as possible, took me
several times to the small house in Tokyo’s Shinjuku Ward where
Bahá’í meetings were held. The house was owned by Mr. Y.A. Rafaat,
an Iranian Bahá’í who was trying to make a go in business in Japan.
[14;187] He had come earlier in the year without his family. He stayed
a few years, I think ﬁve in all, during two separate periods. The Local
Assembly acquired this house as the Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds for Tokyo in
1954. Robert Imagire told me that before Mr. Rafaat made his house
available the Bahá’ís sometimes held meetings in coffee-shops as there
was no other place to go.
At Mr. Rafaat’s house I met Philip Marangella, a pioneer original-
ly from New York, who had come to Japan a couple of months earlier

than I.[15;188] He was working as an accountant for the U.S. Army.
He would soon leave Tokyo to work in Kobe, but returned to Tokyo in
the 1960s. I remember feeling envious of Phil as everything was taken
care of for him by Uncle Sam: job, housing allowance, medical. It
seemed so difﬁcult for us by contrast.
We came to Japan on business visas sponsored by Sandy’s
father’s trading company, as his representatives, but that was just for
convenience, because the company no longer operated in Japan.
Meanwhile we had no jobs and our savings from the sale of our house
in California were dwindling day by day. I tried to get a job with the
U.S. Armed Forces, as I had been working for the Navy in California,
but they would not hire me because of the visa in my passport—people
attached to the U.S. Armed Forces in Japan had special “Status of
Forces” visas. At the time there was no such thing as leaving Japan
temporarily, quickly adjusting the visa at an embassy in a nearby
country, then reentering Japan immediately, so it was hopeless. We had
counted on my getting a job. The Japanese consulate in Los Angeles
had said there would be no problem. Sandy thought he could ﬁnd a job
with a trading company or in the music business, as he had experience
in those ﬁelds, but it was on the knowledge that I would be able to ﬁnd
a job with the Armed Forces that he ﬁnally agreed to go to Japan. The
Navy Personnel ofﬁce in San Pedro, where I had been working, wrote
a reference letter for me, but of course they assumed the Japanese
consulate would take care of the visa. So it was a blow when Navy
Personnel in Japan said they could not hire me. I remember asking
myself if I had really thought this venture through: leaving California—
its weather, its conveniences, its jobs—for . . . what? Some time later I
was telling this story to Agnes Alexander—that the Japanese consulate
in L.A. hadn’t known that I could not be hired by the U.S. Armed
Forces in Japan without a Status of Forces visa—and Agnes said the
assumption about the proper visa was what going to Japan was contin-
gent on, so the reality was kept hidden from Sandy and me.
About a month after arrival in Japan I saw a notice in the English-
language newspaper The Nippon Times that a “Baha’i ofﬁcial”,
Dorothy Baker, had been killed in a plane crash in the Mediterranean
Sea. I remember it was snowing that day. Another day Sandy saw an

ad in the Nippon Times (now The Japan Times) for a job in a trading
company. He applied and was hired. It seemed a blessing: Sandy was
told the company had never before advertised for employees in the
newspaper. The company imported things like German cameras, autos,
and motorcycles, which they sold to the U.S. Armed Forces and to
Japanese companies. It was a good business, as Japan hadn’t started
making products like that yet or was just starting to but of inferior
quality. Sandy worked there for two years. One of the two co-owners
of the company, R.W. “Dick” Child, was an American raised in Japan
in a missionary family. He became a good friend.[16;188]
Despite occasional misery, anxiety, and second-guessing, I
always had the deep-down feeling that Bahá’u’lláh would help us. If I
hadn’t had such a strong feeling I never could have left my comfortable
life for such an unknown, nor would I have survived in that unknown.
And in those days East Asia was truly unknown, unfamiliar in every
way. There were few or no apartments available, or English-language
schools where foreigners could work; those came later. Much of your
daily life was spent in transactions in ramshackle open-air markets for
inferior produce or products of dubious provenance. There were few
foreigners in Japan other than those attached to the U.S. Armed Forces.
There were embassy staff, some business people (mostly people who
were stationed in Japan with the Allied Occupation forces, were
discharged or resigned, and stayed on), and a number of Christian
missionaries, who were taken care of by their Missions, of course. The
American military presence was everywhere, as it was just a year and a
half after the Occupation had formally ended and a few months after
ﬁghting in the Korean War had stopped. People with the U.S. Armed
Forces lived completely separate lives from the locals, on bases that
were like American towns, shopping at their own stores, with their own
schools, hospitals, clubs, etc. Some of them never left their bases. They
lived in another world.
When we were looking for a place to live in early 1954, dear
Agnes Alexander tried to help. She contacted an American woman
who was married to a Japanese and who had been listed on the Bahá’í
roll at one time many years earlier. Agnes thought she might help us
ﬁnd a place, as she was well connected and familiar with everything.

When Agnes told her I was a Bahá’í the woman responded “Sorry, no
Bahá’ís.” So much for that! Eventually we found a house to rent in the
Meguro district of Tokyo and settled in. We rented the house from an
American couple who were civilians working for the U.S. Armed
Forces. They made a good investment in buying that house, as we paid
exorbitant rent. There were two standards for renting, one for the
Japanese and one for the foreigners. As there were no poor foreigners
at that time, supposedly, any house that a foreigner would rent was
expensive. Sandy happened to meet an elderly Ainu[17;189] woman,
Ms. Matsuno, who had been working as a cook for an American
missionary family; they left Japan and she was looking for a job. We
hired her and she worked for us for several years—she was a godsend.
The ﬁrst few months in Japan I was thoroughly miserable, in
freezing cold weather, with asthma and bronchitis, wheezing and
coughing continually. I remember standing in my bedroom one day in
February, shivering because of inadequate heat, looking out the win-
dow at the snow, in despair. It was surely one of the worst times in my
life. Back in the early 1950s Japan seemed so remote, even though I
was living there. To be frank, it was—most of the world was, for that
matter—materially backward compared to the U.S. It seemed so many
things were so difﬁcult, so strange. What were we, accustomed to
American materialism and comforts, going to do? I recall resolving that
I would not, even brieﬂy, ever think about leaving Japan. I said to
myself “I’m here now, I’ve already lived maybe half my life in relative
ease and comfort, and for the rest of my life I will put up with this
misery and do what I can, what I came here to do.”
I knew I would never go back to the States—I had made a
commitment as a pioneer to Bahá’u’lláh, to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and to
Shoghi Effendi, who was directing us in his Ten-Year Plan. In my
desperation I didn’t think things would get better, but simply that I must
endure the misery indeﬁnitely. In my parochialism I thought Japan
would simply stay the deprived way it was. It is funny how we cannot
see that things will change, but as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has stated, “Grieve
thou not over the troubles and hardships of this nether world, nor be
thou glad in times of ease and comfort, for both shall pass away.” And
if you read Shoghi Effendi, you realize that materialism is true misery.

Gradually things did get better, much better, and by the 1960s the
affairs of the Faith and my personal life were going well. Throughout
the years I, like everyone, have had many personal tests and difﬁculties,
but I can honestly say that the problems never interfered with my
Bahá’í activities. The personal problems could not directly touch that
other, spiritual side of my life.
But brieﬂy back to the winter of despair. There was no real heat,
just a couple of small gas heaters which we moved with us from room
to room. The bathroom was icy and if we put hot water in the tub it
quickly became cold, even icy. The water in the toilet froze sometimes.
Of course, no shower—in those days, like today, the Japanese pre-
ferred baths to showers. Being a Californian who had never lived in
such cold before, I wondered how I would survive that winter.
One day the woman who owned the house brought me an electric
blanket she had bought at the Base Exchange. There was no such thing
on the Japanese market. I insisted on paying for it, and it was worth
whatever I paid, as it saved my life. For several hours a night I could
get warm—no matter that the mattress I slept on was made of rice
husks and had ﬂeas. Did I ever thank her enough?
We ﬁxed up the house and made it fairly attractive. We had some
Bahá’í meetings and social events there. It was not far from Sandra’s
school, the American School in Japan (established by missionaries, the
oldest such school in Japan), which was the reason we had looked for a
house in that area. Sandy was interested in a new hobby—high ﬁdelity
sound—and was content collecting components for a sound system. In
addition to his job with the trading company, he was working for
NHK, the national public broadcasting company, doing arrangements
for their pops orchestra and singing on some of their programs. I recall
helping him write out the arrangements for the orchestra. He got tired
of that job after a couple of years, though, as it took a lot of time but
paid little.[18;189]
I went everywhere by myself: Sandy said, in effect, “You wanted
to come here, I can’t take you everywhere, you’ll have to get around by
yourself”—and I did. Being rather adventurous I enjoyed ﬁnding my
way around the big city. I had to ride three modes of transportation to
get to the Bahá’í Center: ﬁrst a bus, then a train, then a streetcar. I took

our car a couple of times, but after the antenna was clipped off Sandy
didn’t want me to park the car on the narrow streets where the Center
was located. I took part in all the Bahá’í activities, initiating some of
them. I often went to the Center, the little house owned by Y.A. Rafaat
and acquired by the L.S.A., for Holy Days, Feasts, L.S.A. meetings,
ﬁresides, deepenings. In the March 1954 issue of the U.S. Bahá’í News
my name appeared in the World Crusade Report as a pioneer to Japan,
which was a goal territory for the U.S. Bahá’í community—the men-
tion was a morale booster.
After living in our ﬁrst house for about six months, we moved
temporarily to Yokohama, to house-sit for one of my husband’s em-
ployers while he and his family were out of Japan. Suddenly we were
living in a mansion! It was a beautiful house with a large garden and
seemed a million miles away from our own house. But I still attended
all the meetings in Tokyo, going up on the train. (Traveling to Tokyo is
always agaru, or going up; other places are kudaru, or going down,
with respect to the capital.) It was often hard to ﬁnd my way around.
There were maps, but unlike American maps, which had north at the
top, some Japanese maps of those days had distortions and no points of
reference. The maps are more standard now, thank goodness.
During our time in Yokohama Sandra took the train to her school
in Tokyo. In those early days she was always ﬁnding abandoned stray
and sometimes dying cats and dogs and bringing them home for us to
help. There must have been a genetic predilection, as son Sheridan later
did the same thing. There was an animal shelter run by some foreign
women who felt sorry for the poor creatures and to whom we turned
over our temporary pets. Now the Japanese have the means to care for
their pets, and the local governments have animal pounds for strays.
The Bahá’í community was so small in those days, but pioneers
steadily arrived, notably a number of families from Iran, the ﬁrst being
the Katirai and Moghbel families in 1953 and the Momtazi family in
’54, and within the next several years the Assassis, Azizis,
Kazempours, Mahboubis, Mohtadis, Mottahedins, Naderis, Shariﬁs,
Vahdats, Victorys (from the English word), Muhammad Labib, and
G.V. Tehrani. Most settled in western Japan, and most of those in the
Kansai region, where the cities of Osaka, Kobe, and Kyoto are located,

a few hundred kilometers from Tokyo. In a number of cases the fami-
lies were advised by the Tokyo L.S.A. (there was no N.S.A. yet)
where to settle, with teaching goals in mind—this was the case with the
Assassis and Muhammad Labib, for instance, who had come from Iran
together and who met with the Tokyo L.S.A. upon arriving in Japan
and were asked to go to the city of Hiroshima. In those days we in
Tokyo seldom if ever saw the Iranian friends in western Japan, until the
North East Asia Spiritual Assembly was elected for the ﬁrst time in
1957 and we started holding the National Convention annually. Keep
in mind: little direct long-distance telephone service (people wrote
letters), only a few slow long-distance trains (no bullet trains yet),
potholed roads, no expressways yet—anywhere was far away.
Japan was so different in those days that modern residents would
ﬁnd it hard to imagine that this now prosperous country was in such
poverty in the early 1950s. And in the ’50s we—certainly I—had little
idea that at some time in the future Japan would become such a materi-
ally advanced, economic powerhouse. There were so many things that
were completely foreign to me. Power outages were common. Many
roads were dirt and rock, and the concrete streets had potholes. Rain
would turn the dirt into mud. At that time the alley outside the Bahá’í
Center was pure mud when it rained. I remember walking down the
alley and having my shoes actually sucked off my feet by the mud.
There were few sidewalks; people walked in the streets. Many people,
especially men, wore black rubber boots when it rained. Outside of
buildings there were big pails of water and brushes to wash off muddy
boots before entering. After entering, the boots and shoes were re-
moved in the entrance hall. Shoes are still removed upon entering
private residences, a civilized custom common to many parts of Asia,
but not in most public buildings today. There were a few large stores,
where foreigners could buy a few Stateside products, but most places
were small family-run shops, open every day from early morning until
late at night. There were almost no canned goods; I remember that there
was only canned tomato soup and canned corn. I could not recognize
some of the vegetables, but I remember the carrots—some were a foot
and a half long, but without much taste. I haven’t seen those now for
many years. The strawberries were another surprise. In California they

were small but very tasty, while the Japanese strawberries were enor-
mous but mostly bland pith; they’re still relatively large but tastier
today.
As for Japanese food, Sandy liked it as he had been raised in
Japan, so we ate it often. I liked it okay provided it was cooked, though
I avoided the smellier ﬁsh. I did not care for sushi and sashimi and still
think they are overrated. Some dishes, such as tonkatsu (pork cutlet),
sukiyaki, and ramen, were quite satisfying, I thought. The batter the
Japanese use for deep-fried food, such as tempura, is lighter and more
delicate than what you get in the States, and tastier, although I could
not bring myself to eat deep-fried sea slugs. I learned to like, or at least
got used to, miso soup, seaweed, and pickled vegetables commonly
used as a garnish. Some things I have never accepted, such as octopus
tentacles. Tofu was a challenge at ﬁrst, as I could not ﬁgure out what it
was. Fellow pioneer Ruhi Momtazi told me the ﬁrst time his family
went shopping after arriving in Japan, they bought tofu thinking it was
cheese, and did not know what to think after having a bite. As Japan
has gotten wealthier over the decades, the variety of food has greatly
increased, and French, Italian, Indian, and Chinese eateries (outside of
the old “Chinatowns”) have multiplied along with a variety of “ethnic”
restaurants, also places specializing in Japan’s regional food, and U.S.
diner-type and fast-food chains and Japanese imitators—I confess to
sometimes wolﬁng down a burger or some fried chicken. Bread shops
and pastry shops are everywhere and of high quality. Hotels and
restaurants have learned to serve all-u-can-eat buffets with Japanese
and Western sections . . . Dear reader, I could stay on this topic for the
rest of the memoir, but I better move on.
I mentioned our maid above. That was one of my blessings, an
elderly Ainu woman, Matsuno-san, from Hokkaido. When I look back
I see that I could not have survived without her to do the shopping and
cooking and helping in so many other ways. Household help steadily
disappeared in the 1960s as the economy began to grow. What woman
would work in someone’s home as a domestic when she could get a
job with Toyota or Sony or any of the many other companies that were
growing and hiring? Back then, some of the older generation continued
to work as domestic helpers but the new found work in companies.

We moved from Yokohama back to Tokyo in the fall of 1954.
We preferred to live near the American School, daughter Sandra’s
school, in Meguro Ward. We ﬁrst lived in a new “foreign style” house
which was built on four levels, one side of the house offset a half-story
from the other. There was not a single closet. When we complained to
the agent he explained that foreigners didn’t need closets as they didn’t
store away their futon (bedding). We moved from that house after a few
months into a very attractive more traditional house—rooms with tatami
matting and an engawa, a kind of veranda or passageway separating
the rooms from the garden—also in Meguro, where we lived for six
years. We had many of the Bahá’í activities in that house, as it could
accommodate many people and was conveniently near the train station.
In 1960 we moved into a two-story house in Seijo, a tony suburb to the
west of the city, the rent for which the U.S. Air Force provided a
housing allowance after Sandy was hired by them.
It was in 1956 that Sandy was offered a job by the Air Force. By
that time I had managed to ﬁnd a job teaching English at a company,
having done clerical duties before that at the trading company where
Sandy worked. I remember he came home one night and told me that
Lt. Larry Hamilton, a Bahá’í with the Air Force, said they needed
someone to manage the Air Force hobby shops, which featured arts
and crafts and high-ﬁdelity music equipment, among other things,
concerning which Sandy was knowledgeable.
I thought this was some sort of test. After all, I had come to serve
the Faith among the Japanese, not wind up on some military base in
what was technically U.S. territory. I advised Sandy not to take the job,
that I felt it was not right, that we should try to get along on the local
economy. He agreed and drove out to the Air Force base, about an
hour away, to meet with Larry and refuse the offer, but on the way he
changed his mind. When he came home that night he told me he had
accepted the job. Looking back, I can see that it was the best decision
he could have made. How could I have been so wrong about it?
Something similar happened on a couple of other occasions, when I
could not recognize what was the best decision to make for my future.
Fortunately, in those cases, like the above one, my ignorance was
overcome. Maybe Someone is taking care of me! As I said before, the

visa problem was a barrier to local hire of Americans for the U.S.
Armed Forces, but this was expedited by a high-ranking civilian friend
of Sandy working for the Air Force, Charlie Hester.
I think it would have been impossible for us to remain in Japan
without Sandy’s job. Having the Air Force hospital available may well
have saved the life of son Sheridan, as I am not sure Japanese medical
care of those days could have coped with the problem he had at birth,
pyloric stenosis, the same condition I had at birth. And the Air Force
dispensary inexpensively provided me with essential asthma
medication. I know from ﬁrst-hand experience that Japanese medical
care today is very good, but in the 1950s, frankly, I felt relieved to have
access to U.S. Armed Forces medical care. In those days the foreigners
living in Japan usually went to medical clinics run by foreigners in
independent practice. Also the Seventh Day Adventists, who came to
Japan as medical missionaries, operated a hospital in Tokyo. About the
mid-1950s the government enacted a law that no one could acquire a
license to practice medicine in Japan without passing an examination in
Japanese. Actually as a law it made sense, but while the U.S. Armed
Forces, of course, were not subject to this law, it was a real problem for
the foreigners with clinics: knowledge of medicine was not the issue—
most of the foreign doctors were ﬁrst-rate—but rather the knowledge of
the Japanese language, particularly medical terminology, which was
still being developed. This law effectively stopped most foreigners from
coming to Japan to establish a medical practice and also closed a
number of the existing clinics.
In addition to medical care and the housing allowance the Air
Force job provided free schooling for our son and access to various
facilities, such as movie theaters, swimming pools, gyms, Ofﬁcers’
Club dining rooms, base exchanges, commissaries, hobby shops, etc.,
on all the Armed Forces bases. This included the Army-run Sanno
Hotel in Tokyo with its dining room and gift shops. Many a Bahá’í
visitor was taken there over the years. Agnes Alexander lived in Kyoto
but came to Tokyo for N.S.A. meetings, and Sandy and I took her to
the Sanno or the bases and were always amazed at how Agnes heaped
food on her plate, ate it all, then went back to the buffet for seconds.
We held events at the Bahá’í Center, but also at our relatively

large house in Seijo (we decided not to live on base). Several Hands of
the Cause spoke at that house—Agnes, Mr. Faizi, Dr. Muhajir, Mr.
Featherstone—and also Bernard Leach, the potter, well known in
Japan. Mr. Leach spent much of his time in Japan and was partly
responsible for the regeneration of the mingei (folkcraft) pottery move-
ment. I ﬁrst met him at the Bahá’í Center in Tokyo. I didn’t know
anything about him or pottery, and when I met him I asked “What
brings you to Japan?” He answered “I make pots here.” Later one of
the Bahá’ís explained to me who he was, and I was embarrassed to say
the least. Mr. Leach was a very effective speaker at our public meetings
precisely because he was then well known in Japan—and many non-
Bahá’í Japanese know of him today. He had ﬁrst brieﬂy heard about
the Faith from Agnes many years before but became a Bahá’í through
his friendship with another prominent Bahá’í artist, Mark Tobey.
Few individual Japanese had cars in those days; the only
Japanese person I knew in the 1950s who personally owned a car was
a popular singer, Peggy Hayama, with whom Sandy worked as a duet
singer and orchestra arranger. Peggy could not drive—few Japanese
could, besides sales people and other professionals—and she used a
chauffeur. We were considered the rich Americans as we had a car and
a big house. It is certainly different now! Back then Japanese cars were
not very good, and I can’t remember many domestic appliances and
other products of daily life. People in the 1950s used their money to
buy things like pearls and silk, but few bought appliances. In those
early postwar days “Made in Japan” meant low quality. We brought
many items with us from the States: electric plugs, wiring, television,
vacuum cleaner, cooking stove, radios, adapters, typewriter, musical
instruments, and our car. In those days U.S. military folks made good
money selling their cars and other items for two or three times the U.S.
market value to Japanese institutions or wealthy individuals.
Japanese doorways came to about 6 feet or about 180 centi-
meters, so Sandy, who was tall, regularly hit his head (and, he used to
joke, steadily lost IQ points). There are many places that still have low
doorways—my present apartment, for example, built in the 1950s—
even though the Japanese have gotten taller; son Sheridan, who is also
tall, has whacked his head plenty (and it shows). I could never get used

to little or no heat in many places. Sometimes there was a hibachi, a
large bowl with some coals in it, and sometimes a tiny gas heater. I
continually had colds and wheezing bouts. There was no air condition-
ing in the summer either. Nowadays, by contrast, in trains, buses and
public buildings the heating or cooling is often uncomfortably effective.
In those early postwar days the Japanese never threw anything
out. The contrast between then and now is a comment on growing
prosperity. They now throw out good televisions and refrigerators,
chairs, etc., because they have no place for them when they buy new
ones, which is often. There are foreigners living in Japan who have
completely furnished their apartments with stuff thrown out by the
Japanese. Every now and then, early in the morning, the streets of
Shinjuku Ward, where I now live, will bring forth ﬁne items, some
almost new. I might pick up some of the smaller things, like kitchen-
ware or coat hangers.
In the 1950s there were still “honey buckets”. Wizened men with
a pole balanced across their shoulders would come around the neigh-
borhoods. At each end of the pole hung a large wooden bucket whose
contents had been scooped up from tanks into which toilets ﬂushed.
They charged 10 yen, or a couple of U.S. cents, per bucket. This was a
big business across Japan, the bucket content being sold to farmers who
used it as fertilizer. You squatted over Japanese commodes, by the
way, a position that, compared to sitting, is actually more hygienic and
more conducive to—how shall I put it?—movement. Men often re-
lieved themselves (no. 1, not 2!) in public. The gutter running by the
front of the Bahá’í Center, uncovered in those days, was used for that
purpose by workers in a construction company ofﬁce across the alley; I
would stare at them to embarrass them into desisting.[19;189]
In the evening a watchman would walk around the neighborhood
striking two pieces of wood together which gave a loud clacking
sound, and calling out a warning to be careful about ﬁre.[20;190] There
was good reason for this. Tokyo had had major ﬁres several times in
the old days before modernization: a large city with wood and paper
houses could be a ﬁre trap. There was also the yaki-imo man, the baked
sweet-potato man, with his plaintive-sounding call, who would sell his
product from a specially equipped cart. Also the chindonya, a small

marching band dressed as clowns and other characters, who would
play at openings of new shops and other occasions. Also the tofu-
seller’s distinctive horn. These sounds are very rarely heard today. As
they have faded away it seems that part of the culture has been lost.
I remember Haneda Airport (before Narita Airport was built)
when it was just a large wooden room on the north side of the grounds.
And Immigration (foreign readers living in Japan today will not believe
this), where we had to go for visa business, was an unheated, usually
empty cubbyhole in a small building.
I think it was the summer of 1954 or ’55 Sandy suggested that
Sandra and I spend a few weeks at Lake Nojiri, in the mountains a few
hours north of Tokyo. He was still working for the trading company
but would come up for the weekends. Lake Nojiri was a summer resort
established by the missionaries decades earlier, and some still owned
cottages there. Sandy’s family had a cottage there but his mother sold it
just after the war. Sandy arranged for us to rent a house but I was very
nervous about going without him. I had to take a slow train—all the
trains seemed slow then—to the nearest town and then catch a bus. I
could not speak much Japanese and no one spoke English.
Sandra and I got on the train at Ueno Station, not Tokyo Station,
as the former handled all trains heading north. It was July and hot, with
no air conditioning, of course. The train was packed, no reserved seats.
Sandra and I got seats because one of the employees at the company
where Sandy worked had gone to the station early and stood in line.
Once the train arrived people poured in the doors and jumped in
through the windows, which were all open for fresh air—very different
manners from today. As soon as the train left the station most of the
men in the car removed all their garments down to their ﬂimsy under-
wear. I stared in shock. They carefully hung their suits and shirts on
hooks and settled down comfortably in their seats. Some were traveling
with their wives, but none of the women got seats and they had to stand
for hours. None of the men offered seats to the women, even for a
break. Later when I was angrily relating this to Sandy he said the
women would not have it any other way, as all would lose face other-
wise. It was expected of them. I recall one woman in a kimono grasp-
ing the back of the seat looking like she was going to faint, her husband

sprawled on the seat in his underwear. I have heard that when the
Japanese ﬁrst started traveling internationally the older men sometimes
did the same thing, to the consternation of ﬂight attendants.[21;190]
I did not like Lake Nojiri much, as it rained continually. There
were no stoves and I had to cook over a hibachi. Shopping was difﬁ-
cult as the store was small. I was not a good swimmer and did not care
for boats. Some of the vacationing missionaries were nice but none
wanted to hear about Bahá’í. I left as soon as I could.
Most of the foreign women who lived in Japan took up some area
of Japanese culture and studied it. After a few years, once I had settled
into Japan, I took up the koto, a large stringed instrument, a kind of
zither, and got fairly good at it. I still like the sound—delicate yet sharp,
and somewhat melancholy to my ears. I also practiced aikido, the
martial art, for a few years; the dojo (gym) was near the Bahá’í Center.
My koto and aikido skills led to an appearance on the Japanese version
of the old U.S. television program “What’s My Line?” The panel was
unable to guess what my “line” was and I gave a demonstration. A
part-time source of income in those days was movies, in which I
appeared as an extra; after we moved in 1960 to the suburb of Seijo,
where Toho Studios is located, the movie lot was conveniently just a
few minutes’ drive away—I discovered that well over 90% of your
time on a movie set is spent waiting.[22;192] I had English-language
classes, mostly at companies, which I taught at night. For a few months
I attended a school once a week to learn conversational Japanese but I
never had time to learn it ﬂuently. Most of the students in this school
were missionaries who were given two years of paid full-time study by
their organizations to learn the language.
It was during the summer of 1954 that I ﬁrst met Saichiro Fujita.
He had come to Tokyo from his hometown of Yanai in Yamaguchi
Prefecture[23;192] to apply for a passport and visa for a one-way
journey to the Holy Land. I saw him at one of the meetings we held
regularly in the city of Yokohama, near Tokyo. The Guardian had sent
Fujita-san back to Japan in 1938 on the approach of the Second World
War.[24;192] Now, in 1954, he wished to return to the Holy Land and
had received permission from the Guardian to do so.
Mr. Fujita was a famous individual among Bahá’ís, not that he

thought so of himself—he was very modest, a general Japanese trait.
When ‘Abdu’l-Bahá toured the U.S. Mr. Fujita accompanied Him from
Chicago to California and back, and several years later at the Master’s
request went to Haifa to live and serve. He spoke ﬂuent English,
though accented, and some Persian. When I ﬁrst met him he was in his
60s and had the vigor of a middle-aged person, very much a world
citizen at ease in any environment. In his later years he had trouble with
his teeth, as did many Japanese who underwent wartime deprivations,
and he frequently took out his dentures as they bothered him. He was
also losing his hearing but could not or would not wear a hearing-aid.
Consequently in the later years visitors to the Holy Land met an elderly
gentleman who sometimes spoke unclearly and would not always
answer when spoken to.
After the ascension of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and before Shoghi Effendi
fully assumed his responsibilities as Guardian, it was the Greatest Holy
Leaf, Bahíyyih Khánum, sister of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, who held the Bahá’í
world together, and it was Mr. Fujita who wrote several messages for
her in English to the Bahá’í world. He also notiﬁed the Japanese
Bahá’ís of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s passing—his letters to Japan are a precious
part of our Archives. I was privileged to meet Fujita-san several more
times through the years in Japan and the Holy Land. He was a great
soul with a pure heart and completely unique.[25;192]
The ﬁrst large Bahá’í gathering I attended in Tokyo, in 1954, was
a Naw-Rúz party. There were 30 or 40 people, mostly Bahá’ís and
contacts of Agnes Alexander, some from prewar days. She came up
from Kyoto for the occasion. I recall several of her Japanese friends,
Bahá’ís and otherwise, speaking of her with admiration and affection.
That party was where I ﬁrst met Hiroyasu Takano. When he was a
seeker and about to be sent to the U.S. by his company for a year, the
aforementioned Joy Earl arranged for him to stay with a Bahá’í couple
in Detroit, Michigan. This he did, and he embraced the Faith while
there. He went on pilgrimage on his way back to Japan, and became
the only Japanese Bahá’í, aside from Saichiro Fujita, to meet the
Guardian. He returned to Tokyo in early March of ’54 and was a great
help in the community.[26;192]
Mr. Takano brought with him from the Holy Land a square of

tapestry that the Guardian told him should eventually hang in the
National Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds. This tapestry was sacred, having reposed
over the remains of Bahá’u’lláh, according to a letter written on behalf
of Shoghi Effendi. Mr. Takano said he thought the Guardian gave half
of the tapestry to someone else for another national community but we
have never been able to track it down. The hallowed piece of cloth has
been an inspiration to believers throughout the years. Agnes Alexander
said she liked to pray before the cloth as she thought that spot was the
holiest in the Far East.
In 1956 the Guardian sent another treasure, through Nureddin
Momtazi, a pioneer living near Osaka who had been on pilgrimage, to
the Spiritual Assembly of Tokyo: a tapestry that had come from the
resting-place of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in the Shrine of the Báb. The L.S.A.
allowed this tapestry to hang in the Amagasaki Bahá’í Center—located
between Osaka and Kobe, the ﬁrst Bahá’í Center in Japan and donated
by Mr. Momtazi—for a number of years, after which it was sent to
Tokyo. Both tapestries are presently displayed in the Prayer Room of
the National Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds.
Tokyo L.S.A.
In 1953 there was no National Spiritual Assembly in the North
East Asia area. In fact, there was no Local Spiritual Assembly in North
East Asia except for Tokyo. The closest Local Assemblies were in
Singapore and the Philippines. When we in Tokyo wanted guidance or
information, we either wrote to the Guardian directly or to the National
Spiritual Assembly of the United States. Japan was a consolidation goal
of that Assembly, and either Horace Holley or Charlotte Linfoot
answered us and were always patiently helpful. A letter from the
Guardian gave the Tokyo Assembly responsibility for all of Japan,
functioning as a de facto N.S.A.
When I ﬁrst arrived in Japan I plunged into the Bahá’í work,
attended everything, supported the ﬁresides, started my own deepening
classes, helped to conduct the Feasts and Holy Day gatherings, and
regularly communicated with as many people, believers and seekers, as
I could. The Tokyo L.S.A. at the time was nearly inactive and couldn’t
achieve a quorum. When I asked why, I was told that at the election the

inactive persons tended to turn in votes for other inactive persons. But
in 1954 Robert Imagire and I were both elected to the L.S.A., and as
we could always get at least a quorum, we were quite active. That year
we usually had meetings at the Bahá’í Center, and in succeeding years
we often had L.S.A. meetings at my house.
Robert Imagire had been pioneering in Tokyo since the late
1940s. When I ﬁrst came to Japan he was in the U.S. temporarily
visiting his family but he returned in the spring of 1954 before the
election and became the Assembly’s secretary. He left soon to move to
the Kansai region and I was elected as secretary, a responsibility I had
for many years. It was a privilege as well as responsibility. One of the
joys of being secretary of the L.S.A. was having the privilege of
corresponding with the Guardian. These letters were always ofﬁcial,
however; I never wrote a personal letter, as did many other Bahá’ís. I
felt the Guardian had enough work to do without having to answer
personal correspondence.[27;192]
People have asked me if I was ever privileged to meet the
Guardian. You have to know how it was in those days. It was such a
different age, that immediate postwar era. Nowadays there are low-cost
ﬂights with (comparatively) comfortable jet aircraft going everywhere,
and travel is easy and fun (generally speaking). Anyone can go just
about anywhere fairly reasonably and quickly (generally speaking). I
have been to Haifa nine times; I have crossed the Paciﬁc countless
times; it has become common and routine. But in former days a
transcontinental or transoceanic voyage was a rare, maybe a once-in-a-
lifetime, undertaking, if that, for most people, what with the time and
ﬁnancial investments required. Some pioneers were privileged to meet
Shoghi Effendi on pilgrimage, but it was not to be for me.[28;194]
Back to my responsibilities as secretary. I took them very serious-
ly, as though I had made a promise, a commitment, to do my best—
which indeed I had. I learned from my own and others’ experiences
that it was crucial to maintain that sense of absolute commitment, that if
that attitude was weakened even for a moment a person could lapse
into laziness or inaction. I insisted on regular L.S.A. meetings; we often
met once a week, usually at my house—dinner meetings were always
well attended. With periodic nudging and encouragement from the

N.S.A. of the U.S. we worked toward accomplishing the goals given
by the Guardian.
In the next few years, after the formation of the L.S.A. of Tokyo,
the Bahá’ís tried to expand the Faith to other areas as the Guardian
wished. We had meetings in Kofu, Yokohama, Sendai and a few other
places. And in the Kansai region the Iranian pioneers were making
similar efforts in and around Osaka and Kobe, as was Agnes Alexan-
der in Kyoto. It was not easy to travel around and quite costly, consid-
ering the frugal and underdeveloped times, but we were very serious
about the teaching goals and had speciﬁc plans.
In 1954 the Tokyo L.S.A. started working on incorporating the
Faith in Japan, one of our goals. The aforementioned Y.A. Rafaat
made the contacts with the appropriate government ofﬁces. The incor-
poration was granted on April 22, 1955. According to Japanese law it
was not necessary to incorporate each L.S.A.: they would be consid-
ered branches of the originally incorporated body.
Another goal was to acquire a National Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds. The
Guardian wrote that it could be a modest one. In 1954 the L.S.A.
looked around to buy a piece of property with some sort of building on
it. We could not ﬁnd one suitable that was affordable. Agnes Alexan-
der got the idea of asking Y.A. Rafaat if he would sell his house to the
Tokyo L.S.A. As I mentioned earlier, he had made the house available
as a much-needed meeting place, but now the Assembly proposed
buying the property, and Mr. Rafaat agreed, also effectively donating
part of the funds by reducing the price below market-value. The
Guardian himself sent about half the funds necessary, and the rest was
contributed by the Bahá’ís in Japan, principally by Nureddin Momtazi,
and by the U.S. N.S.A. and Milly Collins, who served the Guardian in
Haifa and who made many generous ﬁnancial contributions to the
Cause. The building would function as the Tokyo Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds
until the National Spiritual Assembly was elected. Initially the property
was held in Mr. Rafaat’s name for convenience but eventually title was
transferred to the Assembly. This land is worth a thousand times more
today, and if we had waited until Japan became prosperous to try to
purchase a property we never would have been able to afford it. In
1982 the small house, which was functioning as both the National and

Tokyo Centers, was torn down and a multi-story building raised in its
place—a larger structure for a larger community.
I never cease to be amazed by the wisdom of the Guardian in
giving certain goals—but then I realize he was divinely inspired. For
example, we might have thought, Why do we need an incorporation?
We have no assets, no property (the Bahá’í Center property being
temporarily held in Mr. Rafaat’s name), and there are few believers.
But as we had been told to incorporate, we pursued it. It was not
difﬁcult procedurally or ﬁnancially at that time, but as the years went
by religious incorporation became more difﬁcult, quite problematic, in
Japan. In fact, I think it was in the 1980s, an organization offered to
“buy” our incorporation as they could not obtain one any other way. It
was a good thing we incorporated when we did.

We might have been tempted to do things sequentially: ﬁrst we
build up the community and then accomplish the goals one by one. But
no, the Guardian wanted things done simultaneously. He was encour-
aging us to buy a Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds building, incorporate, teach, expand,
translate more literature, etc., all at once.
I was interested in providing more Bahá’í literature in Japanese,
because we had so little material for the Japanese to read, and to that
end I hired two translators. I had to meet fairly often with the translators
to delve into the meanings of words or sentences. One of them had
lived in Indonesia immediately after the war and knew something about
Islam, which few Japanese did. He translated Paris Talks, which work
we are still using. The other translator specialized in religious content.
He told me after translating several Bahá’í pamphlets that he knew the
Faith was true but he felt he could not make a commitment as he was
involved in one of the many Buddhist sects.
In April of 1954 a second Local Spiritual Assembly was formed.
It was elected in Hyogo Prefecture in the Kansai region in western
Japan and was composed of seven Iranians, one Indian, and one
American: the latter two were Mr. Gian Datwani and Philip
Marangella, and the seven were members of the Katirai, Moghbel, and
Momtazi families. The members were all pioneers, not Japanese, but it
was the beginning of the institutional expansion of the Faith.
The summer of 1954 the Tokyo L.S.A. decided to hold a two-

day conference in Atami, a resort town on the sea a couple of hours by
train from Tokyo. Some of the Iranian Bahá’ís from Kansai came. We
were all put up in a ryokan, or Japanese inn. It was my ﬁrst time to stay
in a ryokan. About 30 persons attended; half were Japanese Bahá’ís,
half pioneers. The women all slept in one large room on a tatami
(straw-matted) ﬂoor on futon, cotton quilted bedding which in those
days could be rather thin. I didn’t sleep well as my bones seemed to
press into the ﬂoor all night long. I noticed that Agnes Alexander slept
on two futon. She was more experienced, having stayed at many such
places over the decades, had wisely obtained two futon for herself, and
accordingly slept quite soundly. Since then I have slept with or without
futon on countless ﬂoors, with no problem. This ryokan stay was my
ﬁrst experience with a Japanese breakfast (husband Sandy, who very
much liked Japanese food in general, insisted on American-style
breakfasts): rice, fermented soybean paste and soybean curd soup—i.e.,
miso shiru with tofu—ﬁsh, bits of seaweed, and small pickled plums
that had an antibacterial function and pursed up your mouth too.
Frankly, I don’t remember what conclusions or decisions we
came to at the Atami meeting, but just being together in such a intimate
environment was good for us. It was the ﬁrst Bahá’í conference in
Japan and the ﬁrst time believers from different parts of the country met
in one place. Ms. Yuri Furukawa attended and also served on the 1954
Tokyo Assembly. A lovely lady, she has the distinction of being the
ﬁrst Japanese woman to accept Bahá’u’lláh as Manifestation of God.
Ms. Furukawa (née Mochizuki) had been introduced to the Faith by
Agnes Alexander in 1916.
Speaking of Agnes, in the postwar years she lived in Kyoto but I
saw her when she came to Tokyo, which was frequently. She stayed at
the old Marunouchi Hotel, and after International House was built in
the 1950s she would always stay there. Many Bahá’í visitors have
stayed at International House: Rúḥíyyih Khánum and Violette Nakhja-
vani, Collis Featherstone, Rahmatullah Muhajir, A.Q. Faizi, and
Bernard Leach, among others. Pioneer Phil Marangella lived there for
periods, and the Bahá’ís sometimes held meetings there.[29;194]
The Japan Bahá’í community was small. One of the ﬁrst letters I
wrote to the Guardian was in June 1954, in response to his request for

statistics. In 1954 we had two Local Spiritual Assemblies: Tokyo,
which was also the largest community, and Hyogo Prefecture in the
Kansai region, which consisted entirely of pioneers and had been
formed that year. There were about 30 Japanese Bahá’ís total, and
about the same number of pioneers. The Iranians lived in the Kansai
region with the exception of Y.A. Rafaat in Tokyo, but over the next
few years further Iranian pioneers would settle in other places such as
Nagoya, Hiroshima, and Sapporo. Most of the Iranian and American
pioneers who arrived in Japan in the 1950s left later in the ’50s or in the
’60s; today only the immigrant generation of the Katirai, Moghbel, and
Momtazi families and I remain in Japan from among the early pioneers.
As mentioned before, the ﬁrst pioneer to come to Japan after
World War 2 was Robert Imagire. He got things going—looked up old
Bahá’ís, attracted seekers. When he ﬁrst came there was no material to
study in Japanese. Agnes Alexander told him where to ﬁnd her Bahá’í
books, which she had left in the care of her friend, Dr. Rokuichiro
Masujima, when she left Japan in 1937. Dr. Masujima, who passed
away in 1948, was a prominent international lawyer, founder of Chuo
University in Tokyo, and quite sympathetic to the Cause. When Robert
went to the location, in the Shinagawa district, he discovered that the
area had been bombed during the war and everything had been ﬂat-
tened except one building—yes, Agnes’ books were in that building.
There were 200 copies of Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era in Japanese,
which the new group studied to learn about and deepen in the Faith.
Robert Imagire ﬁrst came to Japan in 1947, returned to the U.S.
for a year 1952-3, and left Japan permanently in 1955.[30;194] Agnes
came back to Japan in 1950 and left in 1967. Of course, she periodical-
ly traveled out of the country during those years. At various times
American Bahá’ís attached to the United States Armed Forces were
stationed in Japan, some in uniform and some in a civilian capacity;
they usually stayed a few years before being rotated elsewhere. They
were ﬁne people and helped the community immensely. Among the
believers either in or working for the Armed Forces who came to Japan
in the 1950s were Lt. Jacob and Barbara Davenport, Jean Eaton, Lt.
Lawrence and Virginia Hamilton, Miles Mahan, Philip Marangella, Lt.
Col. John and Elizabeth McHenry and their son, Johnny (later to

pioneer in Korea), J. Sandusky, Lt. Lane Skelton, Muriel Snay,
Frederick Suhm, and Lt. Donald and Mignon Witzel (later to pioneer in
Latin America). There were also Lecile Webster, attached to the U.S.
Embassy, and Eugene Schreiber, who worked for a U.S. company and
married Akiko Enokida in Nagasaki in 1959—it was the ﬁrst wedding
between Japanese and non-Japanese believers and the ﬁrst Bahá’í
wedding in Kyushu.[31;195] Dr. David Earl, an academic, and his
charismatic wife Joy were already in Japan when I arrived. Joy Earl
was a dynamic and dedicated teacher, perhaps one of the very best
anywhere at that time. She and David lived in the Bahá’í Center after
Mr. Rafaat left Japan.[32;195]
It was these friends and others, including Robert Imagire and
Agnes Alexander—and the aforementioned Iranian Bahá’ís who settled
in western Japan—who enrolled the ﬁrst postwar Japanese Bahá’ís and
deepened them. (Agnes, of course, had introduced seekers to the Faith
decades before the war.) A plurality at least, probably a majority, of the
early postwar Bahá’ís embraced the Faith in Tokyo. This is not surpris-
ing, given its relatively large population, given the concentration of
English-speaking Bahá’ís in the Tokyo area, and given the growing
demand for English-language instruction. With a few exceptions, the
Japanese Bahá’ís in the 1950s and ’60s were all introduced to the Faith
through the English language: either they were in English conversation
classes given by the pioneers or were taught the Faith in English at
ﬁresides. More than one of those Japanese believers conﬁded to me that
they initially came to Bahá’í meetings more in order to improve their
English understanding than their spiritual understanding—but over time
their improving English actually helped them to better learn about the
Faith. Many became active, deepened Bahá’ís: for example, the four
Japanese who were eventually appointed Counsellor all encountered
the Faith through an initial interest in the English language. The En-
glish language was a door to the Faith in many other countries too.
Like the other pioneers, I did deepenings in English because that
was all I could do. The Japanese either tried to understand my English
or one of them translated for the others. I used Bahá’í books in English
for deepenings. Can you imagine a young Japanese still learning
English going through The Dispensation of Bahá’u’lláh or the Will and

Testament of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá? That’s what I did in the U.S., so that’s
what I did in Japan. In those days we didn’t have literature speciﬁcally
designed for systematic study and deepening, though there were a few
pamphlets or booklets that discussed some of the principles. But the
Japanese friends seemed to enjoy it because they kept coming to class.
The Japanese are a very studious people, and this attitude sustained
many a class.
In the early days of the Faith in Japan and in many countries the
pioneers were usually in the forefront of both teaching and administra-
tion. But gradually, as the native believers increased in numbers,
knowledge, and experience around the world, they took on more
responsibility, and indeed these days they are at the forefront every-
where. It takes some time before the native believers make the Faith
their own and teach their people. In Japan it took many years. But this,
of course, is the goal of the pioneer: to do his or her work—build the
administration, deepen the friends in the laws and principles, teach the
friends to teach—so well that eventually there is no work left the native
believers cannot do.
In talking to the Japanese in my early years in their country I
formed an opinion that has not changed since: Buddhism and Shinto
for many or most people are largely cultural phenomena and traditions
and do not have much effect on their spiritual life. The Japanese had a
formalized code of ethics which was taught in schools before the
Second World War but was dropped postwar, and the people had little
in the way of spiritual or moral teachings to turn to. They seemed to me
to be basically very spiritual, however. Maybe that’s why so many
sects loosely based on Buddhism or whose teachings were synthesized
from various religions sprouted up in the 20th century and especially
after the war: there was a hunger to be satisﬁed. I have heard it said that
the Japanese are not religious but that is not my impression. Their
concepts may be different but the belief is there, with many individuals.
Visiting the graves of loved ones and ancestors and praying is common
among the Japanese—but who are they praying to, and what are they
praying for? I learned early on that one of the topics that made for a
lively ﬁreside—in which the listeners or seekers were engaged—was
the afterlife.[33;195]

There was and is one difﬁculty in teaching and deepening in
Japan, and that is a tendency for the Japanese not to express their true
feelings about something, out of a sense of reserve. In cliché talk it is
called “inscrutability”, but the Japanese themselves refer to it as honne
(roughly hone-nay) and tatemae (roughly tah-tay-my). The tatemae is
the outwardly expressed, even pretended, feelings, the polite front put
up, and the honne is the inner, true feelings, kept to oneself. If you
asked a Japanese seeker if he or she understood something and re-
ceived a “yes” reply, or asked if there were any questions or comments
and received a “no” reply, was that really the case? Here reading body
language and acquiring a social intuition over time spent in Japan was
crucial, and it did not come easily to me. The English classes I had
helped, though, as over the years I taught hundreds of students and
learned something of interpersonal communication.
Aside from English, the only medium of communication was
Japanese, of course, and the Japanese language is not easy to master.
For one thing, it has several levels of politeness and formality, which
can be difﬁcult for a Westerner to even grasp let alone use in speech.
Also, the writing system is complex, because of the kanji, a set of
logographic characters adopted from China centuries ago. You have to
learn not 26 letters which carry no meaning individually, but rather a
couple thousand characters, each carrying at least one meaning and
combined with other characters to make many, many more meanings—
from things like “sun” and “cat” to concepts like “limitlessness” and
“delicate profoundness”. Japanese children spend a large portion of
their time in school learning to read and write.
The only non-Japanese who were ﬂuent in the language were
those born in Japan, like my husband, or those who, as students,
studied it for years in their own countries and then came to Japan to
devote years more to study. When I came to Japan I was already a busy
housewife with a family, and most of the time I was working. My
Japanese never got very good, but I could get by; that is, do daily
things like shopping, banking, immigration, and simple tax matters. To
become ﬂuent required learning the writing system, a time and energy
investment which was impractical for me. And it is probably true that I
did not have a linguistic knack. Some of the pioneers have bemoaned

the fact that they never got ﬂuent in the language, while others studied
hard and got quite ﬂuent—but the fact is that over the years many
Japanese Bahá’ís were attracted to the Faith through English. Maybe it
is just as well that I did not concentrate on mastering the Japanese
language as such an attempt might have actually been a distraction. I
spent years gathering material for books, and much more of the primary
research material was in English than in the language of the Asian
country I was writing about, because virtually all the reports and other
information came from pioneers in the early days. Three of my books
have been translated by Japanese Bahá’ís; compared to when I came to
Japan, quite a few native believers nowadays have ﬂuency in English,
in some cases acquired abroad.
We never sought out non-Japanese to teach the Faith to, as the
priority was teaching the Japanese, of course. However, over the years
some foreigners, mostly Americans but also other nationalities, have
become Bahá’ís in Japan. Most left Japan and scattered around the
world, and I have met several overseas through the years.
The Japanese believers and seekers would sometimes bring their
friends to the ﬁresides and the pioneers would talk to them, often
enrolling them, and that is the way the Faith expanded in those days.
The word “ﬁreside” was a misnomer for us, by the way: in the early
days we sat around a hibachi with a few heated coals in it, or around a
small gas heater. We were not warm, physically.
The Local Spiritual Assembly of Tokyo had some teaching goals,
and the city of Yokohama was one of them. We used to have meetings
in Yokohama on Sundays in an old two-story building on a hill behind
Yokohama Train Station. We would meet in a tatami mat room with a
long low table. Typical of these meetings, one of us foreigners would
talk and a Japanese would translate. It was some years before the Faith
in Japan would have foreigners who could give talks in Japanese or
Japanese who could give talks on their own.
When I went to work as an English instructor at a college in
Yokohama in the late 1980s, I could see from the train that same
building behind Yokohama Station and I remembered those meetings
in the ’50s: dedicated teachers, hungry seekers, freezing temperatures,
warm fellowship, poring over the Writings, talking, studying the Faith

(and learning each others’ language), seekers and teachers alike. There
was an energy, a vitality that seems gone now—or is it a trick played
by nostalgia? In the early 1990s I noticed that all the old buildings were
being torn down. Now nothing is left and the hill has been carved into
a different shape. So goes progress.
Nikko Conference
The year 1955 was memorable for the Nikko Conference. Ofﬁ-
cially it was called the Asia Regional Teaching Conference, and held
September 23-25 at Nikko, a few hours north of Tokyo in the moun-
tains.[34;197] It was sponsored by the National Spiritual Assembly of
the United States but the Local Spiritual Assembly of Tokyo put on the
conference—there was no National Assembly in Japan—and as I was
secretary I was extremely busy. Hand of the Cause Zikrullah Khadem
was the Guardian’s representative to the conference, and Charlotte
Linfoot came as the representative of the U.S. N.S.A. Bahá’ís from
Guam, Hong Kong, Macau, Korea, Taiwan and the Caroline Islands
attended, and the conference was conducted in Japanese, English,
Persian, and Chinese. That conference, so long ago, was a turning
point for the Faith in East Asia. It was the ﬁrst Bahá’í conference in the
Asia-Paciﬁc region (India had had a conference in 1953). It led to the
establishment of the North East Asia Spiritual Assembly fewer than
two years later.
According to statistics kept, at that time there were 64 believers in
Japan, and 25 were pioneers; not all the Japanese Bahá’ís were active,
though. The Tokyo L.S.A. wanted all Japanese Bahá’ís to attend the
conference, if possible, so we decided to defray the expenses of any
Japanese Bahá’í who found it ﬁnancially difﬁcult. Of the 39 Japanese
Bahá’ís, 19 attended. Among non-Japanese, Harry Yim, the ﬁrst
Bahá’í in Macau, attended. He became a friend whom I wrote to and
occasionally saw through the years. Saichiro Fujita was also there; in a
few months he would leave Japan permanently for the Holy Land.
Right after the Nikko Conference a formal dedication of the Tokyo
Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds was held and attended by most of the conference
participants as well as other Bahá’ís living in the Tokyo area, and by
way of farewell Mr. Fujita anointed each one of us with attar of roses

that had been given him by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
Mr. Khadem and his wife Javidukht stayed in Japan for a couple
of weeks and tried to meet as many Bahá’ís as he could. He went to
Hiroshima with Agnes Alexander and Nureddin Momtazi and enrolled
the ﬁrst two Bahá’ís there. The Guardian’s secretary had written to the
Tokyo L.S.A. that the people of Hiroshima had “a special right to hear
of Bahá’u’lláh’s Message of peace and brotherhood.” Teaching had
been done there previously but no enrollments resulted. The Guardian
sent such a warm cable when he heard about the ﬁrst two Bahá’ís of
Hiroshima. Unfortunately, after a time we no longer saw those two. I
felt bad about it, as they were given a blessing which may not come
again throughout eternity—at a practical level I also realized the impor-
tance of consolidating teaching achievements. Mr. Khadem visited one
of the young Japanese Bahá’ís in Tokyo who was in the hospital
recovering from minor surgery, and I accompanied him on that occa-
sion. Mr. Khadem was so kind to the young man. Did that young man
understand his bounty? I hope he did. Did I understand my bounty?
Yes, and more so as time goes by. Sandy and I invited the Khadems to
our house for dinner. I recall that Mr. Khadem beautifully chanted a
prayer.
At the Nikko Conference we were told by Charlotte Linfoot that
we should plan to elect a National Assembly in 1957. It was to be
regional in jurisdiction, for North East Asia, with its seat in Tokyo. We
would need to elect at least eight Local Spiritual Assemblies in Japan
by 1956, and four in the other countries or territories within our juris-
diction—Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Macau—in order to hold
the election. Oh how hard we worked to teach and enroll people to get
ready to form Local Spiritual Assemblies the following April! Some
were formed by miracles, but we got our eight in Japan, two in Korea,
one in Taiwan, and one in Hong Kong, making twelve in all; Macau
could not elect an assembly that year. The Local Spiritual Assembly of
Hyogo Prefecture in western Japan ended its existence and three
Assemblies, whose jurisdictions were cities within the prefecture, were
elected in its place.[35;198]
All did not go smoothly. It was April 20, 1956 and we had to
form the L.S.A.s on that day beginning at sunset. We thought we were

all set to elect eight with no problems. Sandy and I were to go shopping
during the afternoon but he kept dawdling and could not get started.
Usually he had to wait for me, but this time I was getting impatient and
tried to hurry him along. Then someone knocked at the door. It was a
Bahá’í pioneer who lived in a nearby town. His expression was very
serious and he said he had to talk to me. I could see that it was impor-
tant and asked him in, deciding to forget the shopping trip. At that
moment Sandy came in the room, but seeing that something serious
was being discussed he left. My friend had misgivings about forming
an L.S.A. and, as there were only nine people including himself, his
participation was necessary. He said that the new Bahá’ís were not
experienced enough and that he thought it was premature to form an
Assembly. If no L.S.A. was formed in his community I felt it could
jeopardize the formation of the future National Assembly. We talked all
afternoon. We said prayers and I cannot remember all that was said but
when he left he agreed to be present to form the L.S.A.
Later I was relating this matter to another of the pioneers: how we
almost didn’t form an L.S.A. in that community despite having nine
believers. The pioneer spoke of an identical experience: one of the nine
Bahá’ís in a town in the same region as the pioneer’s community said
that he did not wish to be part of forming a weak Assembly. But the
pioneer talked him into participating, and, as a matter of fact, we
formed all our Local Spiritual Assemblies. Praise be! I remember
thinking, We are all individually weak, as so many supplications in
prayerbooks stress, and it is by forming Assemblies that we can be-
come strong. To be frank, though, some of the Spiritual Assemblies
formed in 1956 were not very active. Few members were experienced
in administration. There was no National Spiritual Assembly over us to
offer guidance in those days. I remember some years later discussing
the problem of inactive or barely active Assemblies with Universal
House of Justice member Hushmand Fatheazam, and he said the
alternative—not forming the Assembly—is unacceptable. Form the
Assembly and strive to deepen it, there is no other way.
The Tokyo Assembly encouraged observance of the laws: prayer
was not difﬁcult, as it came naturally to the Japanese; the Fast was a bit
difﬁcult for the new Bahá’ís at ﬁrst (although there is a tradition in

Japan of fasting); as for marriage, consent of the parents was not a
problem because in Japanese custom there were meetings between the
two families and consensus had to be achieved. One Bahá’í law that
has turned out to be challenging is burial. Japan is a country where
nearly everyone is cremated, and this has included, very regrettably, a
number of Bahá’ís. I recall a very nice middle-aged couple whom I met
at the Tokyo Bahá’í Center and who had seriously studied the Faith.
They had one great difﬁculty, and that was how they would be buried.
If it was as Bahá’ís, with no Buddhist priest to be called in for the rites,
no cremation, how could their relatives possibly deal with it? We never
saw the couple again. For the Japanese Bahá’ís this problem of burial
loomed large. A number of them simply ignored it: that is, they did not
stipulate how they were to be buried, and upon their passing their non-
Bahá’í relatives opted for a Buddhist ceremony and cremation. I
remember feeling overwhelmed by the amount of deepening that had to
be done, whether it was about administration or law. In that respect the
situation has improved.[36;198]
As I write this section I see that it does not have too much about
my personal life. My life had gradually assumed a comfortable pace. I
got accustomed to living in Japan. I was always busy, but people of my
then age have lots of energy. I had two children, took care of a large
house, was working teaching English, and staying up late at night
getting out L.S.A. letters, using the Ditto machine to copy. (Senior
citizens, remember those things, with stencil and gel, before xeroxes—
how did we ever manage?) In the time between the Nikko Conference
and the ﬁrst National Convention, about a year and a half, all of my
and our activities were directed toward expanding, developing the
L.S.A.s, and preparing for our ﬁrst Convention.
North East Asia
The Local Spiritual Assembly of Tokyo organized the ﬁrst North
East Asia Annual Convention, in 1957, under the supervision of the
National Spiritual Assembly of the United States. Charlotte Linfoot
attended as that N.S.A.’s representative. She was fond of Japan and
had been here once before, at the Nikko Conference in 1955. None of
us knew how to put a convention together, but with help from Char-

lotte and Horace Holley, secretary of the U.S. N.S.A., we did quite
well I thought. I was secretary of the L.S.A. so I was very busy, and I
assumed that after the Convention I could relax a bit, but I was over-
whelmed to learn that I was elected to the new N.S.A. Hand of the
Cause Jalal Khazeh was the Guardian’s representative at the Conven-
tion. He hand-carried a message from the Guardian and brought two or
three ﬂasks of attar of roses, which the Guardian had given him to
anoint the friends at the Convention. After it was over, he gave me one
of the ﬂasks which, to this day, I have carried in my bag. Mr. Khazeh
and Charlotte Linfoot were present at the ﬁrst meeting of our new
Assembly. I remember at the ﬁrst meeting a member chanted a prayer
that must have lasted over 20 minutes. Surely God will hear it, I
thought. I wish I had asked him which prayer or tablet he chanted. We
also always said the prayer for Assemblies before our meetings.
The aforementioned Tony and Mamie Seto came from Hong
Kong to attend the Convention. Tragically, Tony was stricken and
passed away suddenly at the airport on the return to Hong Kong and
was buried at Yokohama Foreigners’ Cemetery, one of many, many
pioneers whose resting-places are poignantly scattered around the
globe. Mamie later returned to Japan to visit Tony’s grave. Tony and
Mamie had accepted the Faith together in 1916, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
wrote in a tablet to them that in their marriage “the East and the West
have embraced each other”. They pioneered to Hong Kong in 1954, at
the outset of the Ten-Year Crusade.

On that ﬁrst North East Asia Assembly Y.A. Rafaat was elected
corresponding secretary and I recording secretary. In the years I served
on the Tokyo, N.E. Asia, and later Japan Assemblies I was always
secretary: corresponding, recording, or assistant. Most of the Tokyo
Assembly’s correspondence was with the Guardian in Haifa or with the
Asia Teaching Committee of the U.S. N.S.A. I was not experienced as
an institutional letter-writer and found it difﬁcult—particularly the
occasional letter to an individual believer offering guidance about laws
or tests, where great care had to be taken—but learned fast from
necessity. At the time of the aforementioned Nikko Conference there
was much correspondence from Bahá’ís in Asia wishing to attend, and
as L.S.A. secretary I had to write many letters; it was the same for the

ﬁrst North East Asia Annual Convention. On the N.E. Asia Assembly
I was initially recording secretary, in which capacity I learned to keep
records—which was harder than it might sound, for we had several
countries in our jurisdiction and the record-keeping had to be meticu-
lous. Mr. Rafaat left Japan and I became corresponding secretary in
early 1959, which position I occupied until 1971, when Dr. Toshio
Suzuki became secretary and I again became recording secretary and
his assistant. I remember clearly the meeting in ’59 when I became
corresponding secretary: I had an important letter to write, to the Holy
Land, and Agnes Alexander said to me “Dearie, before you write, turn
to Bahá’u’lláh for guidance”—precious advice, which I followed on
many occasions. The N.E. Asia Assembly’s correspondence was in
English, though I was communicating with persons of various national-
ities, not necessarily English-speaking pioneers, and it could be difﬁcult
to understand the letters I received. In the early days I did not have a
Japanese Bahá’í assistant and would regularly ask our housemaid to
help me with the reading and writing of letters in Japanese—I doubt
anyone in Japan was more familiar with the workings of Bahá’í admin-
istration than she was. When I look through the N.S.A. and L.S.A.
records in the Archives today I see hundreds of letters and reports I
wrote over the years—I never threw anything away—and it makes me
tired just to look at them! But the letters I wrote and received were a
kind of deepening: I learned so much about the Faith from them. And it
turned out that writing to Bahá’ís as Assembly secretary was good
experience for writing for Bahá’ís as author, compiler, and editor,
which I was to do later.
In July 1957 the Guardian wrote a long letter to the N.S.A. giving
us goals which had to be accomplished before the end of the Ten-Year
Crusade in 1963. Our new N.S.A. tried very hard to follow the instruc-
tions the Guardian had given us. We were very conscientious and
motivated about the goals.[37;198] The jurisdiction of the N.S.A. (also
called Regional Spiritual Assembly) of North East Asia was Japan,
Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Macau.[38;199] The Guardian
designated that its seat be Tokyo, so almost all of our meetings were
held there. We knew that the other countries besides Japan would
eventually have to be strong enough to elect their own National Assem-

blies and consequently much effort was spent on expanding the Faith in
those countries. First was Korea; the chairman of the North East Asia
Assembly was William Maxwell, a pioneer in Korea, and he was our
point-man. Korea was the only country in our jurisdiction that had
relatively large numbers of people become Bahá’ís: it had about 5,000
on the list at the time of the election of its ﬁrst N.S.A. in 1964. Howev-
er, it lost most of those people because of lack of deepening. Deepen-
ing was always a problem and still is. People are attracted to the Teach-
ings and to the Bahá’í teacher and become enthusiastic, but to keep
them that way is difﬁcult without deepening. The pioneers did what
they could, but in those early days there wasn’t the manpower or the
funds to travel to do extensive and consistent deepening, nor the sort of
literature speciﬁcally designed for study that is available today.
After Korea we turned our attention to Taiwan. I was privileged
to represent our N.S.A. in Taiwan at the time of its ﬁrst National
Convention in 1967, and then went travel-teaching around the island.
We had a problem with the election: the voting results were announced,
but because of a belatedly discovered irregularity, it was decided that
the ballots should be recounted. I was one of the persons assigned to
help recount the votes. It was very difﬁcult for me to hear the Chinese
names when they were read off, as I could not distinguish among the
vowel sounds, whose intonation was entirely different from that of
Japanese. Westerners may not realize, maybe because the languages
share the written characters, that spoken Chinese and Japanese are
nothing alike. It was stressful and frustrating—and the weather terribly
hot besides—but somehow we surmounted my hearing problems and
the Assembly was formed, thank goodness. In 1974 the North East
Asia Assembly ceased to exist and the Japan and the Hong Kong
National Assemblies came into existence; Macau was with Hong Kong
until 1989. Thus the ’74 Convention in Tokyo, instead of being the
18th Annual Convention of North East Asia, was the First Annual
Convention of Japan.
Meanwhile, back in 1957, we had to put the newly-elected N.E.
Asia Assembly’s incorporation in order. As I mentioned previously, the
original Assembly incorporation was done by the 1954-5 Tokyo
L.S.A. We updated the incorporation, and I recall sitting for hours with

a lawyer going through the Assembly by-laws as shown in one of the
Bahá’í World volumes, in order to make our incorporation comply with
the model, which, as recommended by the Guardian, was the Declara-
tion of Trust and By-Laws adopted by the N.S.A. of the United States.
There was so much other work to be done toward the Ten-Year Plan
goals too—plus we had ﬁresides, from where the new believers came,
deepenings, summer schools, etc. We members had to do anything and
everything—in those days there was no specialization, nor bureaucratic
staff or ofﬁce workers, whether professional or volunteers.
In addition to secretarial work, I put together some pamphlets and
single sheets, often sitting for hours with translators—anything to
increase our meager supply of literature in Japanese. As mentioned
earlier, I hired a couple of translators to do several pamphlets and two
books: the ﬁrst printings of Some Answered Questions and Paris Talks.
[39;199] These translators used to come to my house in the evenings to
go over their work. I remember one time in particular. In that period I
was “into” garlic. I was practicing the martial art of aikido at a dojo
(gym) near the Bahá’í Center two or three times a week, and it was
cold as there was deliberately no heat—we were supposed to toughen
ourselves. I had heard that if you ate plenty of garlic you would not feel
the cold—although you certainly would stink—so I would gorge on
garlic buds when I was not going to a Bahá’í meeting. One night I
happened to gorge myself just before one of the translators arrived at
the house. When he entered he gasped. After that I ate ground garlic in
little rice-paper packages which didn’t smell as much. The garlic
worked, as I became less sensitive to the cold, but eventually I stopped
taking it—to mufﬂed cheers from all concerned, I’m sure.
November 5, 1957 is a day I can never forget. I received a phone
call from Mr. Rafaat informing me that a cable had been received
overnight stating that the Guardian was very ill, followed by another
cable stating that the Guardian had passed away. I remember the
evening of that day so clearly: Sandy and I were invited out to dinner
by friends of his and I had to be smiling and engaging. It was terrible. I
lay awake that night saying to myself “How can we possibly go on
without Shoghi Effendi?” But we did. Nothing stopped. The personal
shock did not paralyze us administratively. We had our goals for the

Ten-Year Plan, given by the Guardian. The Hands of the Cause led us
to the time of the election of the Universal House of Justice. The House
was elected. It was foreordained.
An incredible thing happened, though, after Shoghi Effendi’s
passing: C.M. Remey—Hand of the Cause, one of the most prominent
of Bahá’ís, loved by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi, and Rúḥíyyih
Khánum, and one of the ﬁrst two Bahá’ís to set foot in Japan—had the
insanity to announce he was a second Guardian, and a “hereditary” one
at that. Just shows the terrible effect of egotism. In 1959 he wrote to all
the National Spiritual Assemblies with his claim. None of us on the
North East Asia Assembly knew about the situation or what to think.
Then the Hands of the Cause in the Holy Land asked all N.S.A.s to
send them cables afﬁrming our support. I was N.S.A. secretary, and
when I received the cable from the Hands I thought dealing with it was
administratively routine, albeit urgent, so I did not wait until the Assem-
bly could decide whether to have a consultation about the matter: doing
my job, I thought, I immediately sent a cable on behalf of the N.S.A. to
the Hands expressing support. Well, at the next Assembly meeting
some members were a bit upset with me for acting on my own without
consulting. In retrospect, perhaps they were right to be upset, consider-
ing the importance of the principle of consultation, although I do
believe that, given the situation, an immediate expression of support for
the Hands of the Cause was necessary. When you think about it, what
were we going to do, not send a message of support to the Hands? The
Remey people periodically sent us mail for a few years, but it got
thrown out unread.
In December 1959 my family took our ﬁrst trip back to the U.S.
We ﬂew on a Constellation, with propellers. The trip was paid for, part
of husband Sandy’s contract with the Air Force. The passengers were
mostly single military personnel, with a couple of families like us. I
don’t think people these days can imagine traveling intercontinentally
on a propeller plane. It took 30 hours to reach California. The return
ﬂight was worse, into the headwind, 36 hours. We stopped twice, at
Hawaii and Midway Island, to refuel. The plane ﬂew not far above the
clouds, bumping its way along, wings ﬂapping. Passengers got sick,
we ran out of drinking water, and the toilet tanks got full. Those were

my second and third journeys across the Paciﬁc—the ﬁrst being by
ship, as I’ve written. My subsequent transoceanic travel has been on jet
aircraft, thank heavens.
It was nice to see relatives and friends again. I remember my
mother Helen was annoyed because son Sheridan couldn’t speak a
sentence without mixing Japanese and English. Sandy hurt his back
and limped around. I felt out of touch in the U.S. I didn’t know the
things Americans were interested in and little about the latest TV shows
or fads—no satellite TV and Internet to link us back then.
Dr. David Earl capably accomplished the Assembly’s secretarial
work during the two weeks I was gone.
The International Convention and the 1960s
I desperately wanted to attend the ﬁrst International Convention
in Haifa in 1963 and the London Congress which was to take place
after it. One of our N.S.A. members had gotten a good deal for the
plane and hotel, but husband Sandy decided it was too expensive.
Remember this was the 1960s when international travel was far less
common and more expensive than today and there was no afﬁrmative
action for women! Sandy had bought an expensive high-ﬁdelity stereo
system for himself and had knocked out a wall to install immense
speakers. In my disappointment over his edict that it was too much
money for me to spend, going to Haifa and then to London, I bitterly
said “You have your expensive Hi-Fi stuff but I don’t have anything
except a few clothes and an old typewriter.” I was whiny but sincere.
Sandy stared at me for a long moment and then said “All right, go. It’s
settled.” And he said since I was going so far I might as well make the
most of it and stop in various countries on the way going and back. I
was happy, but decided I needed a larger independent income.
Sandra also went to the London Congress. She was attending the
University of California at Berkeley so she took a bus across the
country, then a Bahá’í-chartered airplane from New York to London. I
left from Tokyo and went in the other direction. Agnes Alexander and I
were on the same plane from Tokyo to Hong Kong. It was the ﬁrst
generation of jet-engine planes, nothing like today’s jumbo-sized
aircraft. During the nearly six-week trip I stopped in many countries,

usually on my own. I thought I would never get such a chance again.
Since that time I have done a great deal of traveling, but at that time I
never imagined how routine international travel would become.
On the way to the Holy Land, one of the countries I stopped in
was India. I contacted the Bahá’í Center in New Delhi and the secre-
tary of the National Spiritual Assembly very kindly showed me around.
He and his wife were pioneers from Iran. Among other places, he
showed me the House of Worship site, a barren plain at that time. The
next time I was to visit, in 1986, there was a fabulous House of Wor-
ship on the site. Another place I visited was the Taj Mahal. At that time
there were very few tourists anywhere I went. To get to the Taj Mahal,
two other hotel guests and I hired a car and driver. It took a few hours,
going and coming, but was worth it. There it stood in its pristine
beauty. I saw that building again in 1986 and the small streets near it
were lined with booths selling tourist junk and there were hordes of
people, with the marble chipped or dirty in places.
I also stopped in Iran and stayed in Ṭihrán a few days. I pur-
chased a Bahá’í ring at a Bahá’í-owned jewelry shop and have worn it
since. On the ﬂight from Iran to Israel my seat-mate was the same
Iranian gentleman, secretary of the India N.S.A., who had been my
host in New Delhi. Several days later he was elected to the Universal
House of Justice. You must know who he was.[40;199]
In Haifa I can never forget the feeling I had when the taxi round-
ed the hill and I saw the Shrine of the Báb for the ﬁrst time. A view of
heaven on earth! That night our N.S.A. members entered the Shrine. It
seemed so ornate to me, especially the elaborate chandeliers, after the
austere ambience of Japan. The Shrine had a charged atmosphere,
impossible to describe. I have been there many times now and it never
changes, just deepens. For the ﬁrst few days we had a mini-pilgrimage,
which was wonderful.
One of the ﬁrst things on the agenda of the Convention, after the
moving greeting by ‘Amatu’l-Bahá Ruḥíyyih Khánum, was the elec-
tion itself. It was held in the House of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the doors taken
out so everyone could ﬁt in. The sessions after that were held in a
rented hall. Members from the 56 existing National Spiritual Assem-
blies took part in that ﬁrst election. However, according to my notes at

the time, there were only 288 delegates at Haifa. (Some sources have
other ﬁgures, but not much off.) Obviously many delegates were not
able to participate in person. And, not surprisingly, very many of the
delegates were pioneers, like myself. This would change in future
International Conventions.
That election was a world of experiences and sensations. I have
since wondered what was the mysterious process by which we imper-
fect individuals could vote into existence a Supreme Body of such
spiritual signiﬁcance that infallibility was conferred upon it long before
its election? When the results were announced there was a sort of
spiritual hum or buzz that I cannot explain. It was truly a magical
moment when the nine newly-elected members stood before us and
suddenly the Universal House of Justice came into existence. Tears
were streaming down Hushmand Fatheazam’s face and Hand of the
Cause Dr. Muhajir had his arm around him. David Hofman looked like
he was in shock, unbelieving. I have been to six International Conven-
tions, and while they were all soul-stirring and a privilege to attend,
none was like this ﬁrst one.
During those days in Haifa I met Rúḥíyyih Khánum for the ﬁrst
time (more about this later). Agnes Alexander had known Rúḥíyyih
Khánum since she was a young girl, Mary Maxwell. I remember
Agnes telling me that she took care of “little Mary” on occasion. Agnes
considered May Maxwell, Rúḥíyyih Khánum’s mother, to be her
spiritual mother, and I had heard much from Agnes about May and
Mary. Although she had not yet visited Japan, Rúḥíyyih Khánum knew
of all the members of our N.S.A. I was to see Rúḥíyyih Khánum many
times through the years and have dinner with her in the Holy Land—
bounties that I treasure in my memory.[41;199]
Being at the Holy Land, going into the Shrines and the fascinat-
ing Archives building, where I saw the photograph of Bahá’u’lláh for
the ﬁrst time, was almost too much for me to take in. The photograph
was in a chest and the chest door had been left open so I stared at it for
15 or 20 minutes, with many thoughts running through my mind. Here
was the Person who wrote the passages in Gleanings, my favorite
book! Here was the Person for Whom I had left my home and sailed
across the Paciﬁc Ocean to a poor, war-devastated, and utterly foreign

country! Here was the Author of revelations such as the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
and the Kitáb-i-Íqán! I have gazed on that photograph eleven times
now and always the reaction is different, but I can never fully realize
Who He is. The most powerful impact, actually, was at the time of a
conference in India in 1967. The photograph was displayed outside,
with Hand of the Cause A.Q. Faizi acting as a sort of host or guide.
There were hundreds of people in line so we were allowed only a few
seconds as we walked past. When it came my turn, the power in His
eyes stopped me in my tracks. I heard others say similar things. One
long-time pioneer told me he would never be the same after viewing
the photograph. Another believer fainted.
After the ﬁrst International Convention, we all proceeded to
London for the ﬁrst Bahá’í Congress. Our N.S.A. stopped the night in
Paris, and Agnes Alexander was my roommate. In London I did not
see much of Agnes as she was with her fellow Hands of the Cause.
Daughter Sandra and I stayed at one of the many small hotels near
Albert Hall, where the Congress was held. The Congress was another
high point but there was almost too much going on in a short time.
Visiting the grave of the Guardian was an intense experience. We went
there in groups arranged by the Congress committee. I had seen pho-
tographs of the cemetery and the funeral of the Guardian but it was
very difﬁcult to imagine that the beloved Guardian was actually repos-
ing in that place. Since then I have been privileged to visit the
Guardian’s resting-place several times.
Everyone who goes to England has to see Stonehenge, and I was
no exception. Sandra and I played among the stones, hopping up on the
shorter ones. (When we went again in 1994 the area was blocked off
and you could not get close; there were stands selling T-shirts and other
kitsch—of course, I bought a T-shirt.) On the way back to Tokyo I
stopped in several places: France, Germany, Italy, Egypt (actually
climbed part way up the largest of the Giza pyramids), saw the Suez
Canal, dined in an Arab tent, ﬂew to Malaysia, and wandered around
Singapore. I was usually on my own but I didn’t mind.
The ’60s were a relatively happy time for me. As the secretary of
the N.S.A. I was always contentedly busy with the affairs of the Faith.
My personal life was good and stable, with one big exception: my

asthma gradually became so severe that my Air Force doctor was
suggesting I leave Japan. I recall one time I was talking to the doctor,
Sandy was sitting outside the door listening, and when the doctor
mentioned the possibility of me returning to the States Sandy spoke up
“She won’t go back.” How true. That was out of the question. But I
was getting so I could hardly function, and it was one of the few times
that I prayed to God speciﬁcally for health to serve. I was secretary of
the N.S.A. and seldom had help; I had letters to write, meetings to
organize, projects to do. During one very bad attack Sandy drove me to
the Air Force hospital and the doctor said “I’m going to try something
new on you: steroids.” The relief came almost immediately—it seemed
a miracle. Nowadays the use of steroids for various purposes is routine,
but in those days it was a new medication and rarely used. I have since
used steroid and bronchodilator inhalers, and they—together with
Vitamin C (for colds) and antibiotics—have saved my pioneer career in
Japan, and my life.[42;200]
Although I was teaching several English classes at companies, I
decided I needed to enhance my income and in 1967 I took a job at the
U.S. Armed Forces newspaper, Paciﬁc Stars and Stripes. I worked
there part-time for a few months and then I was asked to work full-
time. I really didn’t want to work full-time, as I thought it would take
up too much of my time. While driving out to Camp Zama, about an
hour away, where I would go through the hiring procedure at the
Personnel ofﬁce, I said a prayer that if it was meant to be, please allow
it, and if not, please stop it somehow. Nothing intervened, and Person-
nel hired me. When I look back I can see that it was the best outcome
for me—I believe Someone guided me to overcome my reluctance. The
job gave me ﬁnancial stability and privileges such as shopping and
health care on base that were independent of husband Sandy’s. Crucial-
ly, I learned skills and made contacts that I would put to use when I
compiled the books on the Bahá’í Faith.
At Stars and Stripes I worked in the production end mostly,
generally as a proof-reader, and the last two years as an assistant to the
chief editor. At the newspaper many employees in the production end,
at the time of linotype machines, could read the print not only upside
down but mirror image. I envied such an accomplishment and practiced

until I got so I could do it! Didn’t put that skill to use when compiling
the Bahá’í books, though, or for any other purpose. That talent disap-
peared when production was computerized. For the beneﬁts of working
at that job, and what I learned overall, I cannot thank Bahá’u’lláh
enough.
I now had a decent income and I used all my earnings for travel-
ing or for various projects I was interested in. As there was often little
money in the Bahá’í Fund we regularly paid expenses out of our
personal pockets. What money might be in the Fund coffers went for
absolutely necessary things, like printing literature and renting halls for
meetings. I must mention that if it had not been for the generosity of the
Iranian pioneers, we would not have been able to afford major acquisi-
tions such as a Bahá’í cemetery, the national House of Worship site (in
Hachioji, west of Tokyo), and Bahá’í Centers around the country.
[43;200]
In 1968 the second International Convention took place. Of
course I went, and on the way home stopped in various countries,
including Turkey, Greece and Iran. Another member of the N.S.A.,
Eugene Schreiber, and I went to Adrianople, or Edirne as it is called
now. We took an old bus from Istanbul and we could see some of the
ancient bridges that Bahá’u’lláh must have crossed. Edirne was very
interesting and it was wonderful to see the houses where Bahá’u’lláh
had stayed and from where He summoned the rulers of the world.
In Istanbul we were taken by Turkey N.S.A. member Mr. Sami
Doktoroglu to the hill on the Asia side where the House of Worship
will be built in the future—it must be one of the most beautiful such
sites in the world. Istanbul was full of cats, more than in any other city I
have visited, well-kept, large pretty ones, roaming the hotel and restau-
rants.
In 1994, 26 years later, I visited Turkey for the second time, after
pilgrimage. Much had changed. The bus running between Istanbul and
Edirne was like a plane, ﬂying down a highway with a steward serving
snacks. What had been countryside between the cities was built up or
converted into farms, but the parts of Edirne that we were interested in
had not changed much.
In the late 1960s husband Sandy was offered a job in Hawaii. It

would mean an advancement with higher salary, a good career move
for him, and living in Hawaii would be nice. I did not know what to
think—maybe it was an opportunity to move to a new ﬁeld of service;
maybe it was a test to see if I would abandon my pioneer post. Sandy
thought about it a few days and said he did not know what to do; there
were pros and cons to going and staying. He said he would leave it to
me to decide. I ﬁnally said I felt we should stay in Japan, but I dilly-
dallied before deciding, why I don’t know—I can only be thankful that
Someone guided me to see the obvious, yet again. And I have always
been grateful that Sandy didn’t insist on relocating to Hawaii.
1970s, ’80s, and ’90s
The 1970s were crucial years. Expo 70 took place—a large
international exposition in Osaka. Just as the 1964 Olympics had
launched Tokyo internationally, so Expo 70 launched the Kansai
region. Hand of the Cause Dr. Muhajir visited and designed a pamphlet
for us to distribute, which was done outside the grounds. The next year,
1971, we hosted the Sapporo Conference, held on the northern island
of Hokkaido; actually it was called the North Paciﬁc Oceanic Confer-
ence, one of several major conferences around the world called by the
Universal House of Justice. The conference was to be held in Septem-
ber, and as the election of the N.S.A. approached in April I felt it was
inappropriate that I, a non-Japanese, was still secretary. My feeling,
which I kept to myself of course, was that the ofﬁcers should be
Japanese. Well, as it happened, Dr. Toshio Suzuki was elected secre-
tary and I was his assistant, also recording secretary. Hiroshi Yamazaki
was elected chairman, replacing Abbas Katirai in that capacity, and he
would open the Sapporo Conference.
The Sapporo Conference was a great success and we felt the
Japan community represented itself well. Three Hands of the Cause
attended: Rahmatullah Muhajir, Collis Featherstone, and Ali-Akbar
Furutan, who was the representative of the Universal House of Justice.
It was a ton of work for our N.S.A., but fun too. Dr. Suzuki and I made
19 large display-boards about Japan and its Bahá’í history. They
showed historical photographs blown up to large size. We kept the
displays around for a few years but they were too big to preserve. The

emphasis of the conference was, of course, on teaching in the Paciﬁc
region. The Universal House of Justice, in a message to the conference,
paid special tribute to Agnes Alexander who had so many years ago
visited Hokkaido alone to teach the Faith. She had passed away in
January of 1971, the year of the conference. One thing that struck me
in the House message was a reference to the “teeming millions” in
nearby lands who had not yet heard the Message of Bahá’u’lláh. The
Faith is now established in those lands.
We started a teaching campaign to take advantage of the momen-
tum from the Sapporo Conference. A few months after the conference
Jack Davis, a pioneer in the Philippines, came to Japan to do proclama-
tion and set up an Information Center to handle inquiries, as had been
done in the Philippines.[44;200] We could use all the help we could
get! There was certainly a boost from the conference and the teaching,
as by April 1972 we achieved over 60 L.S.A.s established. However,
over the following years we lost many—yet another lesson in the
crucial importance of deepening, of consolidation. Formation of an
Assembly may achieve a goal, but is only the beginning; it is never the
end of any process.
The 1970s showed great changes in my life. In 1973 we had to
leave our house in suburban Seijo, where we had lived for 13 years.
The owner passed away and the heirs had to sell part of the land to pay
the inheritance taxes. We moved out to the U.S. Air Force base in
Tachikawa, in the far western suburbs of Tokyo. It was a long drive to
work for me every day, as the Stars and Stripes newspaper building
was located in mid-Tokyo. Then in early 1974 my husband decided
that he wanted to have a change in his life and leave Japan—without
me. Sandy left permanently for the States in mid-’74, and in ’75 daugh-
ter Sandra left for the States to pursue graduate studies and son Sheri-
dan went off to college in the States too.
My life went on—alone. I had never lived alone before. I had
been a member of a large family, then got married. During World War
2 I lived either with my family or with Sandy’s mother, and after the
war with husband and daughter and then son. Even after Sandy left, I
lived in a small house with my son for a year. Then he left for college,
and I was really alone. Maybe not when you are young, but in middle

or old age, when you ﬁnd yourself alone suddenly, it can hit you hard.
It took me several years to psychologically adjust. I did not talk about it
with the Bahá’í friends I saw every day, and I put up a stoic front. I did
my Bahá’í work—I was at the Bahá’í Center several evenings a week
for Feasts and deepenings, going through the mail, doing work on
various projects, etc. I continued to teach English and work at the
newspaper for an income and went right on with my life and my
responsibilities. I took a trip to California to see my relatives and to
refresh and reinvigorate myself, with some shopping on the side, which
always helps when dealing with stress. When I look back on those
years from the perspective of old age I see that that period, the mid to
late 1970s, was a transition to a new way of life. One thing that helped
me to cope was what I read in Marie Watson’s My Pilgrimage to the
Land of Desire, where ‘Abdu’l-Bahá is quoted saying
Tests are not sent as punishment, but to reveal the soul to
itself. Suffering unfolds both strength and weakness. Tests
are sometimes creative of grateful surprise also, for in the
midst of our trials we are amazed at the fullness of our
strength and our resources, and so the heavy discipline is
creative of assurance; the trial becomes the source of
greater conﬁdence, faith, and trust. It strengthens and
conﬁrms.
I had to try to see tests in a positive light. There really is no alternative,
when you think about it. Tests do not end, but they can each be over-
come or coped with, and each is for the sake of the soul.
In 1974 the North East Asia Assembly went out of existence and
the National Spiritual Assembly of Japan came into being. Through the
years the various countries under the N.E. Asia Assembly—Korea,
Taiwan, Hong Kong and ﬁnally Macau—formed their own N.S.A.s,
and we had no administrative connection with them after that. But
Japan was enough work! The Universal House of Justice assigned
Hand of the Cause William Sears to represent it at the ﬁrst National
Convention of Japan. He came with his charming wife Marguerite.
What a stir he caused! Veteran Bahá’ís know his style—his rapid way
of speaking and cracking jokes. We on the N.S.A. did not know how

the translators (Japanese and foreign members of the Bahá’í commu-
nity) were going to get the jokes and nuances across. But not to worry;
somehow everyone understood Bill, and loved him. For me personally
it was a reunion with a friend from the Geyserville School days.
I had been to the Holy Land in 1963, ’68 and ’73 for the interna-
tional elections, but in January 1975 I made my ﬁrst personal pilgrim-
age. There was no one else from Japan going on pilgrimage so I was
by myself. On the way I stopped in Hong Kong ﬁrst and a couple of
other places. When I got to the hotel in Hong Kong I called the Bahá’í
Center. No one was there, but I left a message. I went out and wan-
dered around, enjoying the sights. When I got back to the hotel there
was a Bahá’í waiting for me and activities to join in. Moral: Being a
Bahá’í means having friends everywhere.
On to the Holy Land. The pilgrimage was truly a blessing.
‘Amatu’l-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum once said that the purpose of pil-
grimage is to pray at the Shrines, and that is what I did. I was surprised
that not so many pilgrims were there and sometimes when I went into
the Shrine of the Báb it was empty. I got acquainted with Margaret
Chance, wife of Universal House of Justice member Hugh Chance,
who was guiding at the Shrine. I remember some of the conversations
we had about accepting what happens in our lives and coping with the
sadness of loss. But there were fun things to do too: House of Justice
member Dr. David Ruhe drew us a map of ‘Akká indicating the places
to visit (he wrote a book, Door of Hope, about the holy sites). We, that
is, the pilgrimage group, visited the sites there for a day. The group was
not so large, very nice and compatible. I also had dinners with persons I
knew working at the World Center.
In 1978 my newspaper job ended and I went from being spon-
sored by the U.S. Army to living entirely on the Japanese economy. I
was fortunate that the N.S.A. decided to sponsor my visa. I spent a year
travel-teaching, as 1979 was the ﬁnal year of the Five-Year Plan and
we were putting much effort into fulﬁlling the goals. Travel-teaching
was hard for me—I was twice the age of the other members of the
various teams. We would be busy all day—often walking around for
hours going up to people and chatting with them, inviting them to come
to meetings. I remember when I got back to Tokyo after being in

Yamaguchi Prefecture, at the western end of the country, in the hottest
season, I was so exhausted that I spent nearly a month doing almost
nothing, staying in bed much of the time. I think I had heat stroke. I
also went up north to Hokkaido that winter to join a teaching team,
taking my car. I went most of the way up north by a large ferry, but
once I was in Hokkaido I had to drive in snow and on ice and in bitter
cold, not a pleasant experience for a Californian living in Tokyo.
After that year was up, the Stars and Stripes newspaper called me
and asked if I wanted to work there again. But I found I could earn a
higher income, and spend less time doing so, teaching English-lan-
guage classes. This period was the beginning of the bubble economy in
Japan, and hourly rates for English classes started to shoot upward.
Also I had changed my visa, and had weaned myself of dependence on
U.S. military base privileges, and I did not want to return to the past.
In 1978 I had to leave the little house I was living in on the prop-
erty of Sandy’s old friend Dick Child, in Shinagawa Ward, and I
settled in an apartment across the alley from the Tokyo Bahá’í Center,
in Shinjuku Ward, where I have lived ever since. What a convenient
location! I was assistant secretary to Dr. Toshio Suzuki, and made
much use of that marvelous invention, the facsimile: it may pale in
comparison to the personal computer and cellphone, but as far as I am
concerned the fax-machine is up there with the electric blanket as one
of the greatest inventions of the 20th century. Also in 1978 ‘Amatu’l-
Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum visited Japan for nine weeks. This was the
high-point of my life in Japan. I discuss her visit later in this memoir.
In the late ’70s I got the idea to make history slide-shows for
teaching and deepening. All together I made about a dozen presenta-
tions, which I have given many times over the years. I had a camera
with a close-up lens and I took many photos of photos, and made slides
of those. I rarely took original photos—mostly copied from other
photos, books, etc., wherever I could ﬁnd them, and then made scripts
to go with the slides. I bought a small projector that I could carry
around. I gave those programs all over Japan and in Korea, Hong
Kong, and Macau as well. The Japan show was 90 slides long but I
also had an abridged version. I made shows for Hokkaido and Oki-
nawa and Holy Days and the countries that were in the jurisdiction of

the North East Asia Assembly and for certain individuals, such as
Agnes Alexander and the ﬁrst two Japanese Bahá’ís, Kanichi
Yamamoto and Saichiro Fujita. When I was asked to give a talk at a
commemoration for Hand of the Cause Agnes Alexander I gave a slide
show instead of a speech. I felt that even with my somewhat amateur
presentation (neither the Japanese language nor photography being a
strength) the slide-shows were more interesting than plain talks. Several
of the friends have borrowed my slide-shows from time to time.
In 1982 we tore down the old Tokyo Bahá’í Center and built a
new one on the same land, a multi-story building much more ﬁtting for
the growing Faith. It was sad to see the old building demolished—so
many memories—but the Faith had literally outgrown it. I must men-
tion, speaking of the growing Faith, that over the years, particularly
during the 1970s and ’80s, a wave of pioneer families swept over
Japan. Some of them stayed, others returned to their homelands or
moved on to other pioneer posts, but these families—Babb, Barnes,
Bond, Casterline, Craig, Goldstone, Higgins, Mandeville, Riggins,
Schwerin, Sobhani, Washington, Wyckoff, Yazdani, to name some—
and individual pioneers as well—too many to name, some of whom
found Japanese or pioneer spouses—and also many travel-teachers
who came from overseas, have sustained the Cause here, greatly
helping the community to expand and deepen.
In 1989 I again made a personal pilgrimage to the Holy Land.
There were several Japanese and Chinese Bahá’ís in the pilgrimage
group. I remember that it was difﬁcult to get a plane reservation—
ﬁnally got one on now-gone Pan American Airways from Japan via the
U.S. and France. That pilgrimage was, as they always are, a spiritual
recharging: I plugged myself into the Shrines.
In 1991 the N.S.A. decided to form an Association for Bahá’í
Studies chapter in Japan. The ﬁrst conference was held in December
1991 at the Bahá’í Center in Tokyo and was attended by Dr. Hossain
Danesh from Canada. I was one of the presenters and spoke on the
early history of the Faith in Japan. In 1993 we held the second A.B.S.
conference in Japan. I presented this time on my personal recollections
of the early Ainu believers. I attended several A.B.S. conferences in
North America with daughter Sandra Fotos, who has been very active

in the Association, and sometimes with Sandra’s kids, Helen and John,
too: in Boston in 1994, San Francisco in 1995, Edmonton in 1996, and
Washington, D.C. in 1997. I gave a presentation at San Francisco
about Agnes Alexander. There was much interest in this unique wom-
an and the room was full, as it was in Washington where I spoke on the
spiritual axis between Japan and Australia. My style was anecdotal
rather than academic, and maybe easy on the ears of listeners after
heavy scholarly presentations.[45;200]
In 1992 I attended the second World Congress, held in New
York City, and in 1993 the International Convention in Haifa. Both
events were much larger and more diverse than their ﬁrst editions in
1963; at the ﬁrst Int’l Convention there were fewer than 300 delegates
present and it seemed we were all pioneers who knew each other. In
1993 we held our Annual Convention in May, and that was the year I
was not elected to the N.S.A. Honestly, I wanted to be off, as it was
becoming increasingly difﬁcult to handle the stress and burden that
inevitably builds with years of service on a National Assembly—much
of your time is spent dealing with problems. I also felt that younger
Bahá’ís should have the privilege of serving. Although I was relieved
to no longer be on the N.S.A., I felt a loss—I had been a member for a
total of 36 consecutive years, ﬁrst on the Spiritual Assembly of North
East Asia and then that of Japan. When the vote tally was announced I
was shocked, to be frank. I left the meeting hall in the Bahá’í Center
and returned to my apartment across the street. Dr. Toshio Suzuki, my
friend, physician, and long-time colleague on the Assembly, came to
fetch me. When I reentered the hall, all the delegates applauded. I was
ﬂush with emotions—love, appreciation, sadness, relief.
Many years earlier I had started my Bahá’í administrative service
in Japan on the Tokyo L.S.A.; in the succeeding years I was on and
increasingly off that Assembly. I always felt that the L.S.A. was the
best place for the young Bahá’ís especially to learn about Bahá’í
administration and consultation. As of 1993 I was off both Assemblies,
and stayed off, and it was for the better. I continued to help when I was
asked to on clerical matters, and I devoted myself to the Archives,
which had become quite extensive. That was my favorite work. I
enjoyed going through the Archives collections, and still do.

Over the years I have been delighted to welcome my sister and
brothers to my pioneer post in Japan: Dave, who stopped by during an
overseas business trip; Margaret and her husband Al, who visited
during a cruise to Asia; and Ed, Hal, and Dave, who came together
very recently, seeing my kids Sandra and Sheridan here as well.
Meanwhile in July of 1994 Sandra, her kids Helen and John, and I
went on pilgrimage together. It was wonderful to be in the Holy Land
again, and with fourth- and ﬁfth-generation Bahá’ís of my family. We
stopped in England and visited the Guardian’s resting-place several
times. It is the Bahá’í Faith that brought me and later my siblings to an
apartment in Tokyo, and took my daughter and grandchildren and me
to a gravesite in London and to shrines in Haifa and ‘Akká. Could my
grandmother Mary Steuben Burland have foreseen the eventualities
when, one day in 1911, in the town of Visalia in central California, she
listened as a man named John Henry Hyde Dunn spoke to her for a
few minutes about a new Faith that had dawned in the faraway East?
“If you want to preserve something, publish it”
Hand of the Cause Collis Featherstone once said that to me, and I
have followed his advice for over 25 years. My ﬁrst biblio-project had
its genesis in the mid-1970s, when I got the idea of publishing the
letters of the Guardian to Japan. I had always been a collector of Bahá’í
literature and I found I had much of the material I needed. I wrote to
Charlotte Linfoot, assistant secretary of the U.S. N.S.A., saying I
wanted to ﬁnd certain letters written by the Guardian to the early
Japanese believers in the States; I was hoping originals or copies might
turn up, so I asked her if she could look in the U.S. National Bahá’í
Archives. I didn’t hear from her for a couple of months, and then a
large parcel stuffed with documents arrived. Charlotte had had staff
xerox every single tablet from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and letter from Shoghi
Effendi that addressed a Japanese person or even brieﬂy mentioned
Japan or the Japanese. Bless Charlotte, she was always so helpful.
At ﬁrst I intended to include only letters from Shoghi Effendi, and
then it occurred to me to include tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá concerning
Japan and information about some of the recipients, and so the book
expanded. I corresponded personally with one of the Universal House

of Justice members about the project, and his encouragement was a
validation. The name for the book, Japan Will Turn Ablaze!, popped
into my head one day. Now it seems obvious. It was a comment, a
prophecy, made by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to Shoghi Effendi when he was
serving as the Master’s secretary. Agnes Alexander sometimes quoted
that phrase to us. After the book was put together I presented it to the
N.S.A. for approval. We had a discussion as to how many copies to
print and we were, honestly, a little pessimistic as to sales, thinking that
few people would be very interested in correspondence, even if from
the Holy Land, dating back decades. We agreed to print a total of 500
copies. It was done at the job-shop of the Stars and Stripes newspaper
where I worked. Just before the printing the head of the shop said to me
“Why don’t you go for another 500 copies; it’ll cost you only the price
of the paper.” I had to say something quickly and couldn’t think of
anything but “Yes, go ahead.” The N.S.A., quite properly, scolded me
for taking this step without consultation, but fortunately the 1,000
copies sold out immediately, a large number of orders coming from the
U.S. and elsewhere overseas. We had to reprint the book two times to
ﬁll the orders that poured in. The ﬁnancial gain gave the newly estab-
lished Bahá’í Publishing Trust of Japan the capital to start operations.
Japan Will Turn Ablaze, issued in 1974, was the sixth book
printed in the world which compiled letters of the Guardian to a partic-
ular country. Thanks go to Motoko Caldwell for translating the book
into Japanese, as obviously its content was indispensable reading for
the Japanese Bahá’ís. It has been one of the staples in Japanese through
the years. It went out of print in English by the end of the ’70s, and in
1992 I decided to revise and expand it and also correct typographical
errors and other mistakes, which are inevitable in ﬁrst editions. The
book did not sell as well as the ﬁrst edition had, though.
In the 1980s I had the idea to preserve photographs of individual
Bahá’ís and events by publishing them in a book with captions. As was
perhaps predictable, the captions got longer and more detailed, and I
ended up including quite a bit of text in the book. It took some time to
ﬁnish, but then I did not work on it steadily, just periodically. It was
printed in 1989 and called Traces That Remain. The title was taken
from words ‘Abdu’l-Bahá had written in a tablet: a man had asked Him

if he should print his mother’s writings, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá advised
“Collect the traces of thy mother’s pen that they may remain after her.”
Traces That Remain turned out to be a sort of pictorial history of the
Faith in Japan, with a chapter on Korea. It too was rather successful.
[46;201] A Japanese translation was done by Nozomu Sonda. None of
the other books I produced after that sold as well, but I didn’t care; I
enjoyed doing them. And I should say, I have never received royalties
for any of the books I have done—of course, I didn’t write them with a
proﬁt in mind, and our Publishing Trust couldn’t afford royalties any-
way. I often paid the publishing costs, with help from daughter Sandra.
During the 1970s and 1980s as I compiled material for my books
and built up the Archives, I embarked on many searches, for old tablets
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, letters from the Guardian, old believers, old houses,
old books about the Faith; anything from the past that I could ﬁnd. I
went all over Japan looking for bits of the past. The reason I did not
search as much in the 1950s and ’60s is that I had very little informa-
tion about the Bahá’í past in Japan. After Agnes Alexander passed
away we inherited her archives, and when I went through them I was
startled what a wealth of information they contained. Oh how I wished
I had seen them when Agnes was alive! There were so many questions
I would have asked her. In the very early days Agnes was encouraged
to write by Martha Root, a proliﬁc writer herself. When Agnes made
her pilgrimage in 1937 Shoghi Effendi advised her to write histories of
the early days of the Faith in Hawaii and Japan. Agnes did not consider
herself a writer but she was good at it, as she was at speaking. But she
felt that she was guided, and so if she was good or successful at some-
thing she always attributed it to the Master.
After she passed away I found Agnes’ Japan Bahá’í history, the
manuscript she had been working on for over 20 years. I used to see
her at work on it when I visited her at International House, where she
stayed when she came to Tokyo from Kyoto. She did not let the
manuscript out of her hands, however, which was wise, as it would
have been a disaster if it was lost. I did not actually read it until after her
passing. We found much of it in her belongings, and part of it was
kindly sent to us by the Hawaii Bahá’ís, but there was still a section
missing. I recalled at the time that several years earlier Hand of the

Cause Jalal Khazeh had mentioned that Agnes had the manuscript with
her when she attended a meeting of the Hands in the Holy Land, and
he had made a copy of it. So I wrote to the Holy Land for the missing
section, which they found and sent me, and I asked if I should go ahead
with printing the book, which needed editing. I was encouraged to get
it into shape for publication, which I did.
Agnes’ work was entitled History of the Bahá’í Faith in Japan
1914-1938. It was issued in 1977 by the Japan Bahá’í Publishing Trust,
and was printed where I was working, at the Stars and Stripes newspa-
per. I did all the proofreading, of course, and selected the photos. It was
one of the last books done by the newspaper’s job-shop on the old
linotype machines, as they were transitioning to computers. (By the
way, the newspaper staff didn’t quite trust the new main computer—it
was huge, taking up a room, with six terminals, one of which I worked
on. The computer would go “down” sometimes so they kept two of the
old linotype machines as emergency backups.) Agnes’ book made for
interesting reading and I was hoping for good sales. We advertised it,
but sales have been a bit slow and we have plenty remaining. I predict
that some day that book, and the account of Hawaii’s Bahá’í history as
well, both so devotedly written by the Hand of the Cause at the
Guardian’s request, will be much-sought treasures.
After I did Japan Will Turn Ablaze and edited Agnes Alexander’s
Japan history and ﬁnished Traces That Remain, I got the idea to do the
early Bahá’í histories of various communities of Asia, those which had
been under the North East Asia Assembly and which I knew quite
well. None of them had had their early history written. So, I put togeth-
er separate books for Macau (1991), Taiwan (1994), Korea (1996), and
also Tokyo (1998). I visited each country to look through their records.
It took about a year for each book, though they were all rather brief, but
with many photos. I collected information concerning the history of the
Faith in Hong Kong, but that community’s history was later written by
Dr. Graham Hassall of Australia, who sent me a draft to which I made
comments and corrections.[47;201] The titles of the Korea and Tokyo
books came from the Center of the Covenant: Raising the Banner in
Korea was taken from the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to Agnes Alexander,
that He hoped “in Korea thou wilt raise the banner of the Greatest

Guidance”—which she did; Unfurling the Divine Flag in Tokyo was
taken from the words of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to Dr. George Augur, “Unfurl
thou the divine Flag in Tokyo”—which he did. The Macau and Tai-
wan books had more prosaic titles, because I thought them up: The
Macau Bahá’í Community in the Early Years and The Taiwan Bahá’í
Chronicle.
In the Archives at the Tokyo Bahá’í Center we had many photos
and documents, much correspondence, and all of Agnes’ records,
pertaining to the Faith in East Asia. These were invaluable sources.
After visiting the various countries to look through their archives I
found that we actually had much of the pertinent material in Tokyo. I
also received some material from the World Center and some from the
U.S. National Bahá’í Archives. I wrote to several of the old-time
pioneers for photos and documents as well. I should say that I do not
consider these books to be deﬁnitive accounts: it will be up to the
friends in the future, preferably natives of the respective communities,
to do more thorough researching and presenting of their Bahá’í history.
I compiled one other book, published in 1994: Selected Commu-
nications from the Universal House of Justice Concerning the North
East Asia Area Including Japan. A theme of several of these communi-
cations was the “spiritual axis”, described by Shoghi Effendi as “ex-
tending from the Antipodes to the northern islands of the Paciﬁc
Ocean. . . .” Probably one day a book will be written on this fascinating
concept, after the axis has more fully matured, whenever that may be.
[48;201] The Guardian and the Universal House of Justice have given
Japan and Australia prominent places on the axis and roles in its
development. In fact, the N.S.A.s of Japan and Australia along with
three Counsellors in the region met in Canberra in 1982 with the axis
being the main item on our agenda. The occasion was the Asia-Aus-
tralia Bahá’í International Conference, to which the Universal House of
Justice sent a message emphasizing the axis.
The books I did were the product not of talent but of circum-
stance: I had easy access to the Archives, I was secretary of the N.S.A.
for many years, and I had the time and means to do the work. I fell into
the role of writer and certainly did not plan to write histories when I
came to Japan. But then I recall that Agnes Alexander did not see

herself as a writer—not that I am suggesting any comparison. The fact
is, I never felt I had much talent for writing. My father was an excellent
writer of history, and my sister wrote ﬁne prose and poetry. But I never
thought I had the knack, nor was I a trained historian, or trained
archivist for that matter.
My idea with the books I researched was not to write deﬁnitive
historical studies, giving social and economic context, doing statistical
rundowns of teaching plans and results, digging out every reference to
the Bahá’í Faith in the news media over the decades, etc. What I tried
to do is write primers for communities whose archives I had access to
and where virtually no history had been written. I am sure the future
will produce historians who will write more scholarly and comprehen-
sive studies of the Bahá’í Faith in East Asia.[49;201]
In 1970 one of the pioneers in Japan, a good friend, phoned me
and said that a few days earlier he had had a dream about ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá and that I had appeared in it, so he wanted to share it with me. In
the dream the two of us were sitting at a table with ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. My
friend was ready to do the translating but, he said, I seemed to under-
stand what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was saying. At one point in the dream the
Master handed me an object and told me to take good care of it, and I
clutched it and replied that I would guard it better than my life. On the
phone I asked my friend what it was that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá gave me, and
he said it looked like a vintage Persian writing-box. We pondered what
it signiﬁed and could not ﬁgure it out. Many years later I was reading
through the old notebook in which I had written about the dream, and I
thought maybe the object was a writing-box after all. Have I fulﬁlled
the dream? To any extent I have, it has not been by innate ability but by
the bounties of Bahá’u’lláh and the mysterious guidance of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá.
(Re)search
When I did research for the books I compiled, I found that most
of my time was spent literally searching. I combed through our Nation-
al Archives, looking for whatever was relevant: scraps of paper, ﬁles,
old Bahá’í News issues, anything. I also went out, to libraries or to city
halls or to individuals, anywhere I had to for information or help.

I had name cards made which identiﬁed me as a Bahá’í historian/
archivist. This gave me credibility, as name cards or business cards are
indispensable in Japan. I had some of the cards printed on expensive,
beautiful paper, and these I reserved for ofﬁcials I met during my
research or teaching trips. I also carried pamphlets on the Faith. Some-
times I was with Japanese Bahá’ís or pioneers, and they on several
occasions assisted with translation and research, but generally I pre-
ferred to go on my searches by myself. I found that if I was accompa-
nied by someone who spoke ﬂuent Japanese I could lose control of the
line of conversation: in a couple of instances the conversation digressed
to the situation in Iran or some other current topic. My comparatively
limited Japanese had the effect of keeping the talk focused on the
research matter at hand. Still, I must say that over the years a number of
the Japanese and pioneer friends have greatly helped and encouraged
me in my work.[50;203]
One simple example of how a search worked is when I read in
Agnes Alexander’s Japan history that Mr. Sensui Saiki, who was not a
Bahá’í but was very interested in the Faith and who had helped her
with translations, received a tablet from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. She wrote that
he had both the original Persian and the English translation of the tablet
published in the Osaka Mainichi newspaper. This would have been late
1920 or 1921. Agnes had printed the tablet in her history but I thought
it would be good to ﬁnd the Persian copy of it. It would be a conﬁrma-
tion. So I went to the Diet (national parliament) Library, and after
presenting my card and doing much explaining I was allowed to go
through stacks of sixty-year-old newspapers. I spent two days scanning
hundreds of pages until my eyes were tired and my hands smeared with
ink, but I could not ﬁnd it. Moral: Sometimes you don’t succeed.
Another search happened when I was in the city of Hiroshima on
a travel-teaching team in 1979. I thought I would look for information
on Kenzo Torikai, the third Japanese Bahá’í, an emigrant to the United
States who embraced the Faith in Seattle, Washington. This was before
I knew he came from Tottori Prefecture, and as I knew he came from
western Japan I thought there might be something in Hiroshima (which
is part of Hiroshima Prefecture). A Bahá’í friend and I went to an ofﬁce
which had records of emigrants. After I presented my card and ex-

plained about the Bahá’í Faith and why I was searching, the whole
ofﬁce could not have been nicer. We made good connections but I
could not ﬁnd anything. (More on Torikai-san below.)
In general I tried to turn my searches into a kind of teaching. I
think I felt guilty that writing books was not teaching. I remember
when I ﬁnished Japan Will Turn Ablaze Hand of the Cause Dr. Muha-
jir happened to come to Japan, and when I showed him the book he
approved. I would remind myself when I had guilt pangs that if the
foremost exponent of teaching approved, the work on the books was
surely time well spent.
Going to a locality’s mayor’s ofﬁce and to police stations and
leaving Bahá’í pamphlets that I had with me was one way of proclama-
tion. I might not have been searching for anything right there at that
ofﬁce or station, but it certainly didn’t hurt to stop in and leave some
literature on my way to somewhere else. I must say that in all the
searches, proclamation, and teaching that I was involved in, I was
always received and treated politely and often quite cordially by
ofﬁcialdom. So I felt with the searches that even if they were not
successful there was a positive result and many ofﬁcials throughout
Japan learned something of the Faith.
Once I decided to try to ﬁnd the photographer of some of Agnes
Alexander’s group photos taken in her early days in Japan. I thought
there might be a possibility of ﬁnding him because I had gone to a
photography exhibition and noticed that the name of one of the photog-
raphers was the same as the one on Agnes’ photos. I got a professional
photographer interested enough in my search to make his own search.
He wrote me his results: same name but different person.
I went looking for the old photographer’s address, although the
address system in Japan had since changed and I was not too hopeful. I
wound up in a police station and the ofﬁcer in charge could not have
been more accommodating. He spent much time trying to ﬁnd the
proper address by telephoning the ward ofﬁce. Then when he got the
proper present-day address he inquired about the photographer. But it
was too long ago and there was no trace of him. Like I said, you won’t
always ﬁnd what you’re looking for.
When I was putting together Traces That Remain I needed a

picture of Emperor Hirohito, so I took my camera with the close-up
lens to the Tokyo City Library. One of the librarians found a book with
a good photo of the emperor in formal dress. He even led me to a
private room with good light near a window. You can see the photo I
took in the book. This followed my usual procedure of presenting my
card and explaining who I was and what help I needed.
The Japanese people have a keen sense of history. They have a
long history and they very much feel themselves a part of it. Some of
their historical epics have been very popular; best sellers in print, high
ratings on TV. Perhaps that’s why government ofﬁcials, the police,
library staff, and others I called on were, with rare exceptions, very
helpful during my quests for pieces of Bahá’í history.
I always asked for the assistance of Bahá’u’lláh when I set out.
Sometimes the search was successful and sometimes not, but in the
latter case I never had great difﬁculty dealing with the result—it was
not meant to be. I learned this from Dr. Muhajir. When you have set
your mind on something, take action. But if a door does not open, or if
a door closes (literally or ﬁguratively), do not try to force it open. Or if
a door doesn’t even appear, don’t plow ahead regardless. Say prayers,
and if the door stays closed, or doesn’t appear, accept it. But do not
stay still: ﬁnd another direction to move in.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s prayer for the Japanese
In the early 1970s I decided to ﬁnd the prayer written by ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá in Jinzo Naruse’s autograph-book in 1912. Naruse was an
educator and founder of Japan Women’s College (now University), the
ﬁrst college for women in the country. He traveled in the United States
and Europe, and while in England was granted an interview with
‘Abdu’l-Bahá.
I only learned of this prayer after Agnes Alexander passed away,
when I was going through the papers she willed to the National Spiritu-
al Assembly of Japan. I put her account of the prayer in the book Japan
Will Turn Ablaze but at that time did not have a copy of the prayer as
written by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. I think the aforementioned Y.A. Rafaat might
have known about this matter and pursued it earlier, but I did not have
any information about that and he had long since left Japan.

Finding the college was no problem, and I went there with Ms.
Tomo Fushimi, who was also an N.S.A. member and was very helpful
to me in various ways when I was doing my books. On arriving at the
campus I saw that there were some old buildings, so I reckoned the
college was not badly damaged during the war and the autograph-book
with the prayer might be preserved there. We went to the library
building, which seemed relatively new. After I explained my purpose
to library staff, they said the autograph-book would probably be among
Naruse’s effects which were willed to the college. These were assem-
bled in a room on the top ﬂoor. I remember they did not wish to take us
there and could not really understand what I wanted and why. But I did
not sense a ﬁgurative closed door and so I insisted, and they ﬁnally
agreed and said that an archivist would accompany us. We went up to a
large musty room full of hundreds of old books and papers, some still
in boxes. We started wandering around with the archivist watching us.
I spotted Naruse’s autograph-book which he had taken to the United
States several years before his European trip. Time passed but we could
not ﬁnd the European notebook. I didn’t know what to do so I said a
prayer to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to help me, that I was searching, please guide
me to ﬁnd His prayer. Ms. Fushimi and I ﬁnally gave up. Before I left I
gave the archivist an example of Persian writing, which I’d had a
notion to bring, and told her the prayer would look like that and also
would probably have English.
A week or so later the library called and said the archivist had
found the prayer. I quickly went to the college and was told that that
particular notebook had not yet been brought to the room where I was
searching. I was not able to take the notebook out of the building but
could make xerox copies of the prayer. The National Spiritual Assem-
bly sent a copy of the prayer and also a copy of the top of the box in
which the autograph-book was kept, for identiﬁcation, to the Universal
House of Justice, explaining the circumstances. The House indicated
by letter that it was pleased with this ﬁnd.
When I compiled the book Traces That Remain I included a
photocopy of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s prayer. Below is the English text in full,
which follows the Persian in the original:

O God! The darkness of contention, strife and warfare

between the religions, the nations and the people has
beclouded the horizon of Reality and hidden the heaven of
Truth! The world is in need of the light of Guidance!
Therefore, O God! confer Thy favor, so that the Sun of
Reality may illumine the East and the West. (Sig) Abdul
Baha Abbas. Trans. by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab. Dec 30th
1912. London, England.[51;203]
In Agnes Alexander’s Japan history she wrote of her good
contacts with Japan Women’s College in the very early days. In our
time we have also had contact with that institution, with good results
through the years. ‘Amatu’l-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum visited the
campus and met the president. Dr. Amin Banani spoke there when he
and his wife Sheila visited Japan. I remember that during his speech the
page of the autograph-book containing the prayer was displayed. I also
met one of the presidents some years after ﬁnding the prayer. Others of
the staff knew about the Faith and were quite friendly.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s tablets to Japan

‘Abdu’l-Bahá wrote eighteen tablets to individual Japanese, and
one to the Koreans collectively, in addition to the above-mentioned
prayer. The tablets were usually translated into English in the Holy
Land and the original text together with English translation sent to
Agnes Alexander to forward to the recipients. Agnes made faithful
copies, by typewriter, of the English translations and sent the tablets on.
In some cases Saichiro Fujita translated the English text into Japanese
in the Holy Land, and in the other cases the Japanese translation was
done by one of the Bahá’ís in Japan at Agnes’ request. She had the
tablets printed in a booklet in the late 1920s and several of those
booklets survived, so we knew of the tablets and had no doubt of their
authenticity. Over the years I tried to ﬁnd the originals.
The only ones that were found were the tablets to Tokujiro Torii,
who was taught by Agnes and embraced the Faith in 1916, and was to
become prominent in the blind community in Japan (see his article on
the Faith in Japan in The Bahá’í World Vol. IV); the original tablets
were sent to the Holy Land. I was able to establish contact with two of

the early seekers during the searches, one of whom was Ms. Mikae
Komatsu, whose married name was Tadako Arakawa. She was one of
several high school girls who were attracted to the Faith in the very
early days through Agnes’ efforts. Her tablet from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was
dated 1920. Now her children had long since grown up, her husband
had passed away, and she was living with a married son, as it happened
near my home in the Tokyo suburb of Seijo. Her tablet had been lost
during her various moves. She signed her Bahá’í enrollment card in
1963 and she came to my study-class until her eyesight got weak.
Of the early group of high school girls there were two who
reconnected with the Faith in the post-Second World War years. In
addition to Ms. Komatsu/Arakawa there was the aforementioned Yuri
(Mochizuki) Furukawa, the ﬁrst Japanese woman to become a Bahá’í.
She attended pioneer Robert Imagire’s study-class after the war, in the
late 1940s. Her tablets from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá were lost in Manchuria,
where she spent the years of the war. Another one of the girls who
received a tablet was Haruko Mori. By calling her old school Ms.
Furukawa managed to ﬁnd her, now Haruko Shibaya. Since the 1920s
Ms. Shibaya had married and had seven children. Her tablet from
‘Abdu’l-Bahá was lost during the war. I visited her in 1983, when she
was in her 80s. I was hoping she would accept the Faith formally and I
had an enrollment card with me—she was warm and kindly, but it was
not to be. She did speak nostalgically about the time so long ago when
she and the other young women were in Agnes Alexander’s Bahá’í
class.[52;204]
Kenzo Torikai
Much has been written and is known about the ﬁrst two Japanese
to accept the Bahá’í Faith—Kanichi Yamamoto and Saichiro Fujita—
but almost nothing about the third Japanese Bahá’í.
I ﬁrst learned about Kenzo Torikai in the early 1970s when I read
Agnes Alexander’s manuscript of her Japan Bahá’í history. She men-
tioned that, like Messrs. Yamamoto and Fujita, Mr. Torikai had emi-
grated to the United States, in his case settling in Seattle, Washington,
where he was taught and accepted the Faith, and that he visited Japan
for a few months 1916-7 after an absence of 12 years. He was the ﬁrst

to write a Bahá’í pamphlet in Japanese; before that there had been two
or three translated pamphlets. The title of his pamphlet was “The New
Civilization”. Agnes wrote that Torikai-san received a tablet from
‘Abdu’l-Bahá and that when he visited Japan he “brought a fragrance
with him”. That was about all the information I had. I decided to try to
learn more about him.
I read through all the old Bahá’í World and Star of the West
volumes. Mr. Torikai’s name is misspelled in one of the latter volumes
and another one from 1919 makes brief mention of “a Japanese in
Seattle”—scant information. I wrote to the Spiritual Assembly of
Seattle and also to the National Bahá’í Archives of the United States.
No luck. So, I decided to approach it from the Japan side and went to
the Foreign Ofﬁce and spent some time looking through a few huge
volumes with very thin pages that had names of emigrants in the early
1900s listed according to prefecture of origin. I had the kanji written
characters for his name because his pamphlet was among Agnes’
archives, but I did not know which prefecture he came from.
As I had no success searching at the Foreign Ofﬁce I lost interest
and got involved in other projects. However, I did say a prayer asking
Torikai-san to lead me to something about himself. Some time later I
began teaching English classes in a fashion school and on the ﬁrst day I
was introduced to the other part-time teachers. One of them was named
Torikai, a retired employee of a travel agency. When I heard his name I
immediately asked him what the written characters of his name were
(they were the same as Kenzo’s), where he came from, and whether he
had any relatives who were emigrants to the United States. He was
quite surprised by this nosy foreigner he had just met, but I explained
everything to him and he became interested in my project and offered
to help. He went with me to the Foreign Ofﬁce and we searched
through volumes that I hadn’t looked at earlier, but could not ﬁnd
anything. He gave up, but I wasn’t ready to and so the next day I
returned to the Foreign Ofﬁce on my own. The staff were very helpful;
by this time they knew quite a bit about the Bahá’í Faith and why I was
trying to ﬁnd this man. By the end of the day I had gone through most
of 1905 and I decided to quit. When I returned the book to the clerk she
said “Why don’t you look through one more book?” So I did, and after

a half-hour or so, amazingly, the characters of his name jumped out at
me. It could have been so easy to miss, but there it was. Kenzo Torikai
was listed as a teacher, born in 1882, and from a town in Tottori
Prefecture. It had an old-style address. The clerk gave me a xerox of
the page.
My friend from the fashion school, Mr. Torikai (who was unrelat-
ed), took the information and telephoned a friend of his who lived in
Tottori Pref. who supplied him with the modern address. Mr. Torikai
wrote to the City Hall and asked for a copy of the family register,
which all Japanese have. The City Hall answered that they could not
release that information as it was private, and asked why Mr. Torikai
wanted it. He wrote a formal two-page letter about me and my search,
and remarkably they sent a copy of the Torikai family register. It gave
all the places where the family had lived for the past 80 years. The last
place was in Nishinomiya, a town between the cities of Osaka and
Kobe. Then it was easy to make telephone contact with the family.
I visited the family, accompanied by my future daughter-in-law
Laily Momtazi. Mr. Torikai’s wife, daughter, and son, who was a
prominent politician in the town, were most cordial. I explained that I
was compiling a book on the Bahá’í Faith in Japan which would
include the early Japanese Bahá’ís. I learned from the family that
Kenzo Torikai had left Seattle, returned to Japan, married, and emigrat-
ed to Peru, where his children were born. The family returned to Japan
during the early part of the Second World War, settling in Tottori
Prefecture. They moved to Nishinomiya, in Hyogo Pref., in 1955 and
Mr. Torikai passed away ten years later at age 83.
His wife, Yoshie, who was quite a bit younger than her husband,
knew he was a Bahá’í, and the son recalled seeing Bahá’í books. Mr.
Torikai had had no Bahá’í contact since he left the United States. It
seems there were no Bahá’ís in Peru when he lived there, and when he
returned to Japan, none in Tottori—Japan was at war, anyway, and the
Faith was dormant everywhere. Though there were Bahá’ís in Nishi-
nomiya in the 1950s Mr. Torikai either did not know of them or attempt
to contact them. Yoshie was a Christian so she gave her husband a
Christian burial. We all visited his grave in Nishinomiya and said
prayers. After that experience I felt that I knew Kenzo Torikai and that

he had heard my prayer asking him to help me on my search.
For years I had been trying to ﬁnd two things regarding Mr.
Torikai: a photograph and the tablet written by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to him,
for inclusion in Traces That Remain. The family lent me many pho-
tographs but could not ﬁnd the tablet. His tablet is brieﬂy mentioned in
a Star of the West volume, where it says that the Seattle community
taught the Faith to “a Japanese and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá sent him a tablet
urging him to illuminate his own land.” To the extent he could, I think
Torikai-san did illuminate his native land: he visited Japan in 1916-7,
wrote the ﬁrst originally Japanese-language Bahá’í pamphlet, and then
went on a trip around Japan doing what we later called “travel-
teaching”. The pamphlet was in Agnes Alexander’s effects, and in the
1980s I thought it would be good to have it photocopied for distribution
among the Japanese Bahá’ís, but the friends said the language of the
pamphlet was too archaic for the post-World War 2 generation to
understand.[53;204]

A few weeks after we located the Torikai family there was a
Bahá’í history meeting at pioneers Abbas and Rizvaniyyih Katirai’s
home in Nishinomiya, and the Torikai family along with early Bahá’ís
and other persons who had some connection with the Faith in the early
days were invited. It was a wonderful meeting with everyone sharing
stories.
Saichiro Fujita’s relatives
Mr. Fujita was the second Japanese Bahá’í, an emigrant to the
United States, from Yanai in Yamaguchi Prefecture. He became a
Bahá’í through Kathryn Frankland in Oakland, California in 1905. He
met ‘Abdu’l-Bahá when He visited the United States and Canada
1911-2, and ‘Abdu’l-Bahá asked Fujita-san to accompany Him on part
of His tour. In 1919, at ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s invitation, he went to the Holy
Land to live, serving the Master, then Shoghi Effendi. Except for the
period from 1938 to 1955 when he lived in Japan, he made his home in
the Holy Land and passed away there in 1976.
The search for the relatives was not difﬁcult, as Bahá’ís had made
contact before—in fact, they had borrowed photographs and not
returned them, so Fujita-san’s nephew, whom I met, was not especially

friendly at ﬁrst. Fujita-san had spent the years 1938-55 at his nephew’s
home in his hometown of Yanai. When he passed away in the Holy
Land some of his effects were sent to us, which together with items
already in Tokyo formed the Saichiro Fujita Collection in our Archives.
I was looking for any items he might have left with his nephew, such as
books and especially letters from the Guardian, which I knew he had
received during the years he lived in Japan. The nephew let me look
through the family albums but I found virtually nothing about Saichiro.
It seemed to me the relatives did not understand Saichiro. Many
of the emigrants to the United States became successful in agriculture
or trades; why hadn’t he, they wondered. They also wondered why he
left the U.S. to live in Israel. And why didn’t he marry and have a
family? I tried to answer, but then if you do not know the power of the
Covenant, how can you begin to understand a person like Saichiro
Fujita? The relatives weren’t Bahá’ís and couldn’t be expected to think
in terms of the Faith, of course.

Kanichi Yamamoto’s relatives
Kanichi Yamamoto was the ﬁrst Japanese Bahá’í. He was an
emigrant from the town of Tosaki in Yamaguchi Prefecture (which
prefecture produced Saichiro Fujita too), and he became a Bahá’í in
Hawaii in 1902.
In 1979 I was travel-teaching in Yamaguchi Prefecture with
several Bahá’ís and accompanied them to the ferry at the port town of
Yanai (coincidentally Mr. Fujita’s hometown), from where one of the
friends was going to the island of Shikoku. Yanai was near Tosaki so
we decided to try to ﬁnd the Yamamoto family. Parenthetically, there is
no evidence and no reason Kanichi and Saichiro knew each other in
Japan—they were not Bahá’ís then—although they very likely met in
California, as they are both in a photograph taken at the Goodall home
in Oakland on the occasion of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s visit, and several years
before that Fujita-san lived in Oakland while the Yamamoto family
settled in nearby Berkeley. Using the ferry building’s public telephone
and directory we started down the list of Yamamotos. One household
after another could not give us any information about one of their
relatives emigrating to Hawaii nearly 80 years earlier. Then one of the

salespersons at a nearby candy-stand, who couldn’t help overhearing
the conversations, said she recognized that name. She called a friend,
who had bought Kanichi Yamamoto’s nephew’s house. The Morita
family had owned the house, and “Morita” was Kanichi’s original
family name. Contact was made with Ms. Morita, whose mother was
Kanichi Yamamoto’s cousin. She welcomed us into her home and we
spent a pleasant afternoon there. She showed us photos, but none very
old, and a grave plot bought by Kanichi many years earlier.
Ms. Morita suggested we contact a Ms. Yazawa, who was
Kanichi’s younger sister, then 81 years old. She lived in Chiba, a
prefecture adjacent to Tokyo. I did not even know she existed! Contact
was made and an appointment made for later when I would be in
Tokyo. Ms. Yazawa was a delightful person. She let me copy photos
from her albums and said that when she was a schoolgirl, in 1921, she
lived with Agnes Alexander in Tokyo for three months. Ms. Yazawa
said Kanichi never seemed to make much money but he always had
many friends.
The next time I visited California I contacted several of Kanichi’s
sons including the second eldest, Shinji, and his son Stephen, and
visited the oldest daughter Fumiko in Berkeley. They should all be
proud of their forebear, the ﬁrst Japanese to become a Bahá’í, whom
‘Abdu’l-Bahá called the “Unique One”.
Kikutaro Fukuta’s sons

Kikutaro Fukuta was the ﬁrst person to become a Bahá’í in
Japan. It was in 1915, and he was 18 years old at the time, a university
student. He had become acquainted with Agnes Alexander and joined
her Bahá’í study-class. He received two tablets from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá;
these were what I was looking for and, of course, any other
information. I knew Mr. Fukuta had passed away in 1959 but I thought
I could ﬁnd his relatives. I obtained his old address through Ms. Ito
Torii, wife of Tokujiro Torii (who had also passed away). The Toriis
were an old-time Bahá’í couple who had been close friends of Agnes
and had stayed in touch with Mr. Fukuta. Ms. Torii wrote to the
relatives that I wished to meet them. With two Bahá’í friends I went to
Toyohashi, near the city of Nagoya, to visit the sons. One of them was

an English-language teacher and the other a rice-dealer, as his father
had been. They knew a little about the Faith, from their father. When I
asked about their father’s effects, they told me that one day in 1945,
during World War 2, Toyohashi was bombed—the only time it hap-
pened—and everything went up in ﬂames: the original rice-shop and
house were gone. The family was very welcoming and cordial and
remembered Agnes with affection. She had written a eulogy for Mr.
Fukuta, as she did for other friends at their passing.
Vasily Eroshenko
Agnes Alexander wrote much about the blind Russian
Esperantist, Vasily Eroshenko. He was a friend of Agnes in Tokyo in
the early days. He was interested in the Faith and helped Agnes in
various ways. He had a sort of patron, Mr. Nakamura, a blind man who
was also a friend of Agnes and the editor of the ﬁrst Braille newspaper
in Japan. I knew that Nakamura had a cake shop and restaurant near
Shinjuku Station in Tokyo. At one time there was a whole room of
Eroshenko memorabilia but when Nakamura passed away the room
was emptied. I went there and one of the waiters gave me a book, a
biography of Nakamura apparently printed by his widow. It had
photographs of Eroshenko but no mention of Agnes or the Bahá’í
Faith.[54;204]
In 1916 Eroshenko translated the Arabic portion of The Hidden
Words into Esperanto, Agnes reading him the verses in English, and
this translation was printed. In the late 1970s a woman representing the
Esperantists visited the Tokyo Bahá’í Center, wanting more informa-
tion because, she said, the Esperantists were going to publish a book on
Eroshenko and wished to put his translation of The Hidden Words in it.
I gave her a xerox of the original printing of Eroshenko’s translation,
which they eventually published.[55;205]
Vasily Eroshenko has been described by historians as an anar-
chist in addition to being an Esperantist, writer of novels and children’s
stories, translator, and founder of a school for the blind. Whatever his
political views, after living in India, Thailand, and China he returned to
his native Russia, then part of the Soviet Union, where he worked as a
school-teacher.

Ichi Kamichika

The name “Kamichika” means “near to God”. Besides having a
great name, Ms. Kamichika ﬁgures prominently in the early history of
the Bahá’í Faith in Japan. It seems she lived in the same building as
Agnes Alexander in the early days. She was proﬁcient in English and
helped Agnes with the translation of Bahá’í pamphlets, in 1916 or so.
She also was instrumental in putting the ﬁrst article about the Faith in a
newspaper. In her later years, in the 1950s, she became one of the ﬁrst
women to be elected to the Japanese Diet (i.e., parliament). Agnes had
written in her aforementioned Japan history about Ms. Kamichika, and
I was curious about her because of certain intriguing references, but
had no idea as to her present situation. I happened to mention her name
to a non-Bahá’í Japanese-American friend of mine, Mary Connelly,
and said I wish I could ﬁnd her. Mary replied that she had gone to
school with Ms. Kamichika’s daughter and that she would arrange an
interview! We had a wonderful afternoon, took photos, talked, and
reminisced about Agnes. A couple of years later Ms. Kamichika passed
away and I attended her funeral, which was full of famous ﬁgures from
the cultural and political worlds.[56;206]
I happened to meet Ms. Kamichika’s niece at a Japanese conver-
sation class she was teaching. When I heard her name I asked if she
was a relative; she said yes. I spoke about the Bahá’í Faith and her
aunt’s connection with the Faith. We still exchange cards. Agnes
Alexander used to say “These things are not accidents, dearie.”
Takeo Hasegawa
I had not seen Mr. Hasegawa for 25 years, since the Nikko
Conference in 1955, and one day I decided to ﬁnd him. He lived in a
faraway prefecture on the island of Kyushu and had had no contact
with the Bahá’ís for many years. It happened that there were no
Bahá’ís where he lived and in the late ’70s one of our goals was to
have Bahá’ís in every one of the 47 prefectures of the country. We had
no address for Mr. Hasegawa, who was a school teacher, as he had
retired and moved. We did ﬁnd his old school and someone there told
us his current address. He was so happy to be contacted and said he

still considered himself a Bahá’í. I sent him some photos and books,
and he was delighted when a teaching-team visited his city. He passed
away not long afterward.
The story of how he became a Bahá’í interested me. It was in the
U.S., in Texas, where he was a university student in the 1950s. Mr.
Hasegawa and another Japanese student were walking on campus one
day when an elderly woman approached them and invited them to her
home. They were happy to accept her kind invitation as they knew no
one in Texas. The woman was Kathryn Frankland, who was home-
front-pioneering in Texas. I have mentioned Ms. Frankland earlier in
this memoir. She had an afﬁnity for the Japanese: when she was living
in Berkeley, California many years earlier, she introduced Saichiro
Fujita to the Faith and conducted classes for Kanichi Yamamoto’s
children. Kathryn Frankland was a truly great teacher of the Faith.
The Reverend Nobuichiro Imaoka
The Rev. Imaoka was a delightful man of nearly 100 years when
I ﬁrst met him in the late 1970s. He had been a friend of Agnes
Alexander back in the early years. He was a member of the Unitarian
Church and was one of the organizers of the Japan Religious Confer-
ence in 1928. Agnes was invited to be a speaker at that conference and
wrote to Shoghi Effendi beforehand about it. The Guardian sent a letter
containing a greeting for the conference and I wanted to ﬁnd that letter.
Although I knew about Rev. Imaoka I wasn’t sure how to contact
him. I happened to mention him to a Bahá’í friend, Herb Moran, who
worked for Northwest Airlines and came to Japan regularly, and Herb
responded that he knew Rev. Imaoka and had attended his Unitarian
Fellowship meetings! Rev. Imaoka had retired as the principal of a high
school in Tokyo but he kept an ofﬁce in the basement of the gymnasi-
um on campus. Herb gave me directions and I visited on a Sunday.
Rev. Imaoka was a bit hard of hearing and his eyesight was poor but
his English was excellent and his mind sharp. He was quite familiar
with the Bahá’í Faith and remembered Agnes well. Rev. Imaoka said
he also met another American Bahá’í woman—I thought it might have
been Keith Ransom-Kehler, when she visited Japan and stayed with
Agnes, but I’m not certain. Through the years Rev. Imaoka had main-

tained a Unitarian church, which he reckoned was one of the smallest
in the world because it had only about a dozen members.
We discussed the 1928 religious conference and I asked Rev.
Imaoka if there were any records left. He pointed to a stack of multiple
copies of a book. The book’s content was the proceedings of the
conference, in Japanese. Agnes’ talk was included but the Guardian’s
letter was not mentioned. When I pursued this Rev. Imaoka said he
thought all records of the conference had been discarded after the book
was published. He promised to look through his papers but he informed
me later that he found nothing. He told me I could take some copies of
the book and I ﬁrst took two and then, as there were so many, I asked if
I could take more. He said to take what I wanted, so I ended up with 15
or 20. As this was an important inter-faith conference and the book
contained Agnes’ speech about the Bahá’í Faith, I decided to donate
the book to various libraries: the Diet Library, Tokyo City Library,
YMCA library, International House Library, Chiba Prefectural Library,
and several other institutions. Of course I sent a volume to the Bahá’í
International Archives in the Holy Land.
Rev. Imaoka invited me to stay for the Unitarian Fellowship
meeting and I had the pleasure of being introduced to the church
members: they were mostly elderly men and they met every Sunday in
one of the rooms of the gym. Several became friends I saw from time to
time, including Rev. Imaoka until he passed away at age 106—a
venerable man of God.[57;207]
Daisetz Suzuki and Beatrice Lane Suzuki
Once when I was looking through issues of Star of the West
magazine, I read in the February 1912 number that Beatrice Lane,
daughter of the American Bahá’í Emma Erskine Lane Hahn, had
married a man named Daisetz Suzuki in Japan the previous December.
“Suzuki” is one of the most common surnames in Japan, so I wanted to
verify that her husband was the Daisetz Suzuki, prominent Buddhist
writer and scholar who helped greatly to introduce Zen Buddhism to
the West. I went to the International House library in Tokyo and
scanned his books in English to ﬁnd something regarding this. After
rifﬂing through several (er, somewhat boring, to me) books on Zen, I

came across a dedication to his wife Beatrice. Veriﬁcation. I contacted
Donald Richie, a writer and critic living in Tokyo and a friend of
Daisetz Suzuki, and learned that Beatrice passed away in 1939 and
Daisetz in 1966, and that they had an adopted son who had also died.
[58;208]
Agnes Alexander knew Beatrice Lane Suzuki in the 1920s and
’30s but Beatrice was not on a list of Bahá’ís that Agnes compiled to
send to the Holy Land. Beatrice was involved with Theosophy and
wrote extensively on Buddhism; however, Bernard Leach stated to me
that his friend Daisetz Suzuki told him Beatrice was a Bahá’í. I put the
information in my book Traces That Remain along with a photo of the
Suzukis that I copied from one of the sources. It was an interesting bit
of research.[59;208]
Hong Kong and Macau
This is one of the most interesting areas in East Asia, and was a
part of the North East Asia Assembly’s jurisdiction. When the Interna-
tional Convention was held in Haifa in 1963 to elect the ﬁrst Universal
House of Justice, I stopped in Hong Kong and Macau on the way; the
ﬁrst time for me to visit there. I was met in Macau by Harry Yim, the
ﬁrst Bahá’í of Macau, and John Chang, Knight of Bahá’u’lláh for
Hainan Island. At that time I was the secretary of the North East Asia
Assembly and I had corresponded with the two men and I also knew
Harry Yim from the Nikko Conference in 1955. I caught a bumpy-
landing amphibious plane ﬂight from Hong Kong and spent a nice day
with Mr. Yim and Mr. Chang talking about the Faith in Macau.
By the second time I visited Macau the amphibious plane had
given way to hydrofoil. This second occasion was in the company of
Hand of the Cause A.Q. Faizi and Counsellor Ruhollah Momtazi, in
January 1969. I had been in Hong Kong with them and Mr. Faizi
invited me to go to Macau with him and then on to Manila, the Philip-
pines. I also visited Hong Kong in 1968, on my way to the second
International Convention in Haifa, and went teaching in the New
Territories. As I knew many of the Bahá’ís in both Hong Kong and
Macau it was always fun to go there.
I visited Hong Kong at the time of the International Conference

held there in 1976. Hand of the Cause Ali-Akbar Furutan was the
representative of the Universal House of Justice. I especially recall the
last night: Mr. Furutan stood at the podium and told story after story
about the Central Figures of the Faith and many humorous anecdotes as
only he could. He is a marvelous storyteller. I remember that those at
the conference wanted the night to go on forever.
In 1989 I was invited to attend a reception and banquet celebrat-
ing the passage of the Hong Kong Bahá’í Spiritual Assembly Incorpo-
ration Ordinance by the Legislative Council in Hong Kong. This
ordinance gave prestige and standing to the Faith. ‘Amatu’l-Bahá
Rúḥíyyih Khánum was the guest of honor. It was a wonderful evening.
During the stay of Rúḥíyyih Khánum and her travel-companion Vio-
lette Nakhjavani there were several meetings. Hong Kong and Macau
had been under the jurisdiction of the North East Asia Assembly from
1957 to 1974 and I knew those communities quite well, so I eagerly
participated in the activities. Rúḥíyyih Khánum and Ms. Nakhjavani
were going to Macau to attend the dedication of a new Bahá’í Center
the N.S.A. had acquired, and they said to me “Why don't you come
along?”
The Bahá’í Center in Macau was a large apartment on the ﬁfth
ﬂoor of a building near the then border with China. According to
Chinese custom the dedication took place amid ﬁreworks and a lion
dance. A long cord of large celebratory ﬁrecrackers ran down several
ﬂoors to the ground. When the ﬁrecrackers were lit they exploded
down the cord with much noise and smoke. Actually it was quite
impressive, with the performers in costume doing the lion dance. It did
seem a ﬁtting way to dedicate the new Center.
However, one whiff of the acrid smoke and I knew I was in big
trouble: my asthma clamped down and I could not breathe. The outside
was full of smoke so I ran inside the building, gasping. I hung out an
open window that was away from the festivities to suck in clean air.
My bronchial passages were closed and I could not draw in air and I
felt myself suffocating. While desperately squirting my inhaler I
“spoke” to Bahá’u’lláh, saying I came to Macau—at Rúḥíyyih
Khánum’s suggestion, don’t forget—not to suffer death by ﬁrecracker!
Please help me! Gradually the air passages opened and I felt well

enough to go on up to the Center. Some of the people there knew I was
having trouble and got me some water. Rúḥíyyih Khánum asked if I
was all right. By this time I was. The meeting went on with Rúḥíyyih
Khánum giving her usual topical and fascinating talk and everyone
enjoying the occasion.[60;209]
Another time I went to Macau, in the early ’90s, was for their
Winter School, for which I prepared a slide-show to present. I copied
many old Bahá’í photographs and wrote a script which gave the history
of the early days of the Faith in Macau. I think it was at that time I
interviewed Mr. Gian and Ms. Lachmi Datwani in Hong Kong. They
had gone there many years previously, in 1954, from Japan, where they
ﬁrst pioneered. Their compelling pioneer story had not yet been
written. After I returned to Japan I wrote it up and sent it to the World
Center with the Datwanis’ approval.
A couple of times that I went to Macau it was to research my
book on the early days of the Faith there. It was in 1990 and I was
looking for material, as I did not have enough in the archives in Tokyo.
I knew more existed and that it must be in Macau. There was not much
held in the Macau Bahá’í National Ofﬁce and they could not help me. I
remember that one of the pioneers accompanied me and we looked up
the aforementioned Harry Yim. Mr. Yim was the ﬁrst Chinese Bahá’í
in Macau, taught the Faith by pioneers Carl and Loretta Scherer in
1953. He had originally come from mainland China and had a success-
ful antique business in Macau in those early years when tourism was
just beginning in Asia. Mr. Yim invited me to his apartment and said
that I could copy his photos (I had brought my camera with the close-
up lens). He had all the records of the early days before the existence of
the Local Spiritual Assembly and after it was ﬁrst elected. I was famil-
iar with most of the material he had and copied the photos we did not
have in Tokyo. I knew the Guardian had written a letter to the Bahá’ís
in Macau, but we did not have a copy in Tokyo and I searched for it. I
could not ﬁnd it and we were ready to leave but looked around one last
time, and suddenly I saw a black notebook tucked away. It had be-
longed to Loretta Scherer and was an account of the Faith she kept
beginning in 1953, when she and Carl ﬁrst pioneered to Macau. It
contained much information and precious photographs and, amazingly,

the original of the letter from the Guardian. I made xeroxes of the
precious letter and some of the other content of the notebook, and
presented the notebook to the Macau N.S.A. I believe they sent the
Guardian’s letter to the World Center.
The Archives
In the early days there were some boxes and papers stuck in
shelves in the old Tokyo Bahá’í Center. None of the Bahá’ís gave
much thought to the material, so it stayed there taking up a small space
and gathering dust. It was not until after the N.S.A. of North East Asia
was elected in 1957 that I began to think about any records left from
the past: any correspondence, minutes, enrollment cards and lists of
believers, photographs, newspaper and magazine articles about the
Faith, accounts of events and public meetings. In 1959, when I became
secretary of the Assembly, I began to build up and organize our
records. I bought a big ﬁle cabinet—the ﬁrst of dozens. I seldom threw
anything away over the years; just stuck things here and there. Gradual-
ly I became more systematic in organizing the material. When you look
at the Archives today you see literally thousands of papers and innu-
merable ﬁles. For conventions and conferences I participated in I made
albums with programs and photos—those were fun to put together.
After her passing we received Agnes Alexander’s archives: over
two trunks’ worth of papers and other items. What a treasure trove this
was! This collection has formed a priceless portion of our holdings. It
was from Agnes’ papers that I got much of the material I used in the
books I compiled on the Faith in Japan.
In the mid-’90s I put together a catalogue of the Archives at the
Bahá’í Center, assisted by son Sheridan. It was actually his idea: one
day we were talking about the Archives and he said any archives
collection should have some accounting of its holdings. It was quite a
bit of work but time well spent, as not long afterward the N.S.A. asked
me to provide a catalogue.
When I went to other countries of Asia either to collect informa-
tion for my histories or for other Bahá’í purposes, I saw that some
Bahá’í communities had almost no archives, while other communities
had a lot of material from recent times but little from the early years.

One reason for this is that in many places during the early years it was
individuals rather than institutions who were responsible for the Faith’s
affairs, and any documents were apt to be treated as personal items,
which might or might not be preserved. Another reason is that there
was no one functioning as an archivist. Also, Tokyo served as the seat
of the North East Asia Assembly during its existence, and records that
would otherwise have been kept in the various communities were held
in Tokyo.
I have considered building the Archives to be one of my major
endeavors as a pioneer in Japan. I was inspired by a number of refer-
ences in published letters written by the Guardian or on his behalf to
individuals and communities stressing the importance of the Archives
as an institution. An example, from a letter written on behalf of Shoghi
Effendi (in Lights of Guidance):
The institution of Bahá’í Archives is indeed a most valu-
able storehouse of information regarding all aspects of the
Faith, historical, administrative as well as doctrinal. . . .
Future generations of believers will be surely in a better
position than we are to truly and adequately appreciate the
many advantages and facilities which the institution of the
Archives offers to individual believers and also to the
community at large.
Some extraordinary Bahá’ís who visited Japan
An unmatched bounty of being one of the comparatively early
Bahá’ís, and also being one of the earlier pioneers, was the opportunity
to become acquainted with some of the truly exceptional persons who
were my contemporaries. I suppose there will always be interesting and
extraordinary people in the Faith, but I doubt that any can be like the
unique Hands of the Cause, appointed for their outstanding qualities by
the Guardian of the Cause. As the Bahá’í population increased in many
parts of the world, you could hardly get close enough to meet the
Hands. I remember someone telling me of an event in the United States
with Hand of the Cause Tarazullah Samandari: there were so many
people in attendance that everyone could not get into the hall, let alone

get close enough to speak with him or even see him clearly.
In 1982 when we dedicated the newly-built Ḥaẓíratu’l-Quds in
Tokyo, I gave a talk on Hands of the Cause who had visited Japan.
There were eighteen in all, although some had come before they were
appointed.[61;209] Of course there was always dear Agnes Alexander,
who lived among us in Japan—our treasure. In my talk I tried to
explain why the Hands of the Cause were so exceptional, so different,
so precious—even more so now with so few remaining to us: only two
at this writing, as, alas, ‘Amatu’l-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum passed away
recently.[62;210] Were the Hands granted greatness with the appoint-
ment or were they always so? Of course with the appointment they
were obliged to do more, and it must have changed the lives of all of
them. I once asked Mr. Faizi why the Hands were so special and why
people were so attracted to them. He answered “It’s the love.” Hand of
the Cause Featherstone and I were once talking about this and, answer-
ing my question, he said he did not know why he had been selected for
this great honor, being appointed a Hand of the Cause; the only thing
he could think of, he said, was that he had always been an active
Bahá’í. But then, many people were active. I don’t think he and Mr.
Faizi were telling me everything they felt, out of modesty, and wisdom.
Many of the wives of Hands of the Cause, and of Universal
House of Justice members too, seemed as capable as their husbands,
and they made great teams together. To mention a few, Marguerite
Sears, Madge Featherstone, Iran Muhajir, Javidukht Khadem, Violette
Nakhjavani, Margaret Ruhe, Shaﬁqih Fatheazam, Margaret Chance—
such insight that woman had—and Ataiyyih Furutan—there was a
great woman! Ms. Furutan and I had asthma in common, although hers
was at a more advanced stage. I remember once in Tokyo while Mr.
Furutan was enthralling the friends in an informal meeting in the lobby
of his hotel, Ms. Furutan and I went up to her room for a heart-to-heart
talk, including commiserating about our asthma.
I mustn’t neglect to mention, if too brieﬂy, Mildred and Raﬁ
Mottahedeh, who visited Japan for the ﬁrst time in 1953. Mildred was
visiting Bahá’í communities in the Paciﬁc region as directed by the
Guardian. I also saw her in Haifa: an intense, brilliant, dynamic woman
to say the least! She was not a Hand but had a similar presence and

charisma. And Raﬁ, so capable and supportive.[63;210]
The persons mentioned below, although I also met them outside
Japan at various times, are part of the Japan story. I should add that
there have been many other Bahá’ís who visited Japan; I have met
some wonderful people, many of whom I have not seen again and
some of whom have become good friends. Please keep in mind that this
memoir is a record of personal experiences, and if I seem to be name-
dropping here, well, that’s sort of the point.[64;210]
The Queen, ‘Amatu’l-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum

I think of her that way—Queen of the World. The account of
how she came into this world is fascinating. She was special even
before her birth.[65;210]
I had the privilege of meeting ‘Amatu’l-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum
before she visited Japan, which was in 1977 and in ’78, and several
times after: at the International Conventions in 1963, 1968, 1973, 1978,
1983 and 1993 (I missed 1988) and during three personal pilgrimages,
in 1975, 1989, and 1994. I also saw her in Hong Kong, Macau, West-
ern Samoa, and India. In Samoa there was a luncheon for pioneers
attending the dedication of the House of Worship at Apia in 1984. At
the luncheon, Rúḥíyyih Khánum, during her talk, praised the various
pioneers individually; when she got to me she said I was as much a part
of Japan as Mount Fuji (I’ll take that as a compliment!).
In the Holy Land Rúḥíyyih Khánum always invited the Bahá’ís
from Japan to dinner, or at least to tea, in her quarters at the House of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. I remember the ﬁrst time I was in Haifa, at the Interna-
tional Convention in 1963. Rúḥíyyih Khánum opened the Convention
and attended most of the sessions. I was dying to meet her, as I had yet
to have that honor, but I hesitated to just walk up to her and announce
myself, because I was, frankly, very nervous. I happened to be talking
to Jamshed “Jimmy” Fozdar, pioneer in Southeast Asia and from a
prominent family of pioneers, who had met Rúḥíyyih Khánum before,
and when I mentioned that I would like to meet her if I had the chance,
he promptly led me to her and properly introduced us. Rúḥíyyih
Khánum said “Oh Barbara, we haven’t met, have we?” She held out
her hand and I extended mine to shake hers, but I was utterly speech-

less: my mouth was open but nothing came out, as I tried to overcome
my nerves, snap out of the awestruck state I was in, and form a coher-
ent greeting in my brain. Just as I was about to say something, someone
came up rather brusquely and somehow I got pushed aside and others
took my place in front of Rúḥíyyih Khánum. I was so disappointed, as
I had not said a word, just standing there dumbstruck. A day later,
between Convention sessions, I was sitting with Agnes Alexander
when Rúḥíyyih Khánum walked by; after greeting Agnes warmly—
Agnes was like an aunt to her—she kissed me on the cheek.
I had a dream about Rúḥíyyih Khánum before she visited Japan
for the ﬁrst time in 1977. Brieﬂy, there was an open-house dinner at the
newspaper where I worked. Suddenly I saw Rúḥíyyih Khánum and her
travel-companion, Ms. Violette Nakhjavani—wife of Universal House
of Justice member Ali Nakhjavani and a remarkable person herself.
Rúḥíyyih Khánum looked marvelous and when I told her how wonder-
ful I thought she looked, she said, however, that she was tired, did not
feel well, and did not want me to gather anyone for a meeting or talk.
While she was sitting there, and I was standing nearby, she took off a
broach from her blouse and handed it to me. It had a carved ivory ﬁsh,
set on an angular black and white base. The dream ended—more about
it below.

Rúḥíyyih Khánum visited Japan in the fall of 1977 for one week
and then the following year in the fall for nine weeks. Actually the ﬁrst
trip was supposed to be the long one, but she was weary when she
arrived and she became increasingly ill—from an ailment she had
picked up on a stop previous to Japan—and, after being treated by
N.S.A. secretary and physician Dr. Toshio Suzuki, she left for Aus-
tralia, where a doctor she had consulted in the past happened to be at
the time. Of course, we in Japan did not know it was going to turn out
this way and had planned events for her.

Despite not feeling well, Rúḥíyyih Khánum was highly attentive
to detail: she met with the N.S.A. to go over the schedule it had pre-
pared for her, item by item. She had indicated by letter that she wanted
to spend her time with the Japanese believers, and by way of explana-
tion I was told by someone in a position to know that she had been
bothered by a few overly solicitous pioneers in another country. In

Japan there were no worries on that score: the pioneers refrained from
the kind of too-friendly or intrusive behavior that annoyed her; the
Japanese believers were often too shy to even approach her.

The night Rúḥíyyih Khánum arrived in Japan for the 1977 visit
she rode with the above-mentioned Dr. Suzuki in his car to Internation-
al House, where she and Ms. Nakhjavani would stay when in Tokyo. I
followed with some of the friends and luggage in my car. They got
checked in and then everybody left except Counsellor Ruhi Momtazi
and me. Rúḥíyyih Khánum said she wanted to get something light to
eat. The kitchen at International House was closed so we got into my
car and drove down the street and at the corner she saw a diner and
suggested we stop there and get something, which we did. (She had
soup.) I remember mentioning a little apologetically that my car was
rather old. She looked it over and said “Well, it works, doesn’t it?” She
was so natural that it relaxed anyone who might be nervous in her
presence.
We held a large buffet-style dinner for Rúḥíyyih Khánum at the
beautiful Chinzanso Garden. After the dinner she sat by herself for a
while and I began to feel uncomfortable with that. As an N.S.A.
member I felt responsible so I said to her that I would bring the
Japanese friends one or two at a time and introduce them. It went well
and she met and talked to everyone. She was quite happy to again see
Hiroyasu Takano, who had been on pilgrimage in early 1954.[66;211]

Rúḥíyyih Khánum visited Japan Women’s University, whose
founder, Jinzo Naruse, had met ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London in 1912.
Another place Rúḥíyyih Khánum was able to go was a United Nations
Day meeting in Sagamihara, near Tokyo. At that meeting she saw Ms.
Furukawa—née Yuri Mochizuki—the ﬁrst Japanese woman to become
a Bahá’í. Ms. Furukawa had met Rúḥíyyih Khánum and her mother
May Bolles Maxwell in Paris during the 1920s.
As I mentioned above, for much of the 1977 visit Rúḥíyyih
Khánum didn’t feel well, and she spent some time in bed in her hotel
room. I was in her room on one occasion and I remember Violette
Nakhjavani taking such good care of her. It was remarkable how
Violette devoted herself to helping Rúḥíyyih Khánum in every way.
Although she rarely spoke at meetings where Rúḥíyyih Khánum was

the featured speaker, Violette herself, when she did speak, whether
giving a talk or in private conversation, had strong opinions on current
affairs, sharp observations to make on the Faith in Japan, and told rivet-
ing stories of pioneering in Africa, of service in Haifa, and of events
and personalities from the history of the Faith. It could be interesting
just to listen to the two women talk to each other, whether it was about
Shoghi Effendi or about proclamation or about what to have for lunch.
(Actually they talked to each other as often in Persian as in English.)
Speaking of Violette’s talks, I remember one she gave in which she
spoke of two relationships we can have with the sun: one is as the
earth, the passive recipient of the sun’s bounty; however, the believers
must be more than that, they have to self-effacingly become reﬂectors
of the sun’s rays, functioning as mirrors and focusing the rays on the
earth.
Even in her ill condition Rúḥíyyih Khánum seemed so far beyond
the rest of us. She gave out to us, but I wonder if she absorbed anything
from us, although she said she did. There was a quality of detachment
about her, not from unfriendliness or indifference but from greatness.
She may have been detached but she did not like to be alone, and was
uncomfortable when Violette and the other friends were even brieﬂy
away on some errand or other. She had her likes and dislikes, idiosyn-
crasies, maybe even faults—everyone does—still, she was no mere
mortal, I thought. She was fond of Agnes Alexander, and they were
similar in being quite unique and highly individualistic, moving at their
own pace, functioning on a different plane, it seemed to me. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá told May Maxwell to leave her daughter Mary free, and that she
was.
Rúḥíyyih Khánum’s illness might be regarded as symptomatic of
the ills of society. In a talk she gave during her ﬁrst visit I was surprised
by how vehemently she spoke of modern civilization. She detested it,
saying “the old order is rotten and cannot be saved in any way”, adding
that she did not expect to survive the calamity and that when she died
her consolation would be that it was in the death throes of the old order.

Rúḥíyyih Khánum returned to Japan the next year, 1978, brim-
ming with energy, and her schedule was ﬁlled with meetings and
events including press interviews. Each evening, by the way, Violette

Nakhjavani would write up the day’s happenings, so there are detailed
accounts of all her travels. Rúḥíyyih Khánum had been hopping around
Japan keeping her various engagements when she stopped in Tokyo
with a day open in her schedule. She told me she would like to see the
Great Buddha in Kamakura. We went in my car, Rúḥíyyih Khánum
sitting up front and Violette in the back. It was a very nice day and we
enjoyed the sights of the ancient capital of Kamakura. Rúḥíyyih
Khánum took several photos; one I remember was of a man sound
asleep on a bench in the sunlight in the garden by the Great Buddha.
Carelessly I forgot to put ﬁlm in my camera so I didn’t get any photos. I
should mention that Rúḥíyyih Khánum made sure to immerse herself in
Japan’s culture while she was here. She saw the sights in the even more
ancient capitals of Kyoto and Nara, including the Buddha statue there,
attended a Noh performance, took part in the Japanese tea ceremony,
and said that she had mostly eaten Japanese food, which she liked very
much, everywhere she went during her visit.[67;211]

After viewing the Great Buddha we decided to have lunch.
Rúḥíyyih Khánum was undecided what kind of food she wanted to eat,
and I could not recommend any place as I did not know the area well
and some restaurants were closed. We drove on a bridge to Enoshima,
an island near the shore and a popular summer spot. It was out of
season and a little chilly, but sunny and pleasant. Rúḥíyyih Khánum
looked at a few small eateries but didn’t see anything that appealed to
her. She entered a gift-shop, looked around, and bought several attrac-
tive Japanese teacups made in the mingei, or folkcraft, style. While
wandering around the shop I spotted some broaches—and then I saw
the broach, with the ﬁsh design, mentioned a few pages above. My
dream! I motioned to Rúḥíyyih Khánum to look at the broaches, saying
“They’re nice, aren’t they?” She glanced at them but was not interested
and kept walking. I was getting desperate and wanted to say “Rúḥíyyih
Khánum, you are supposed to give me that broach!” But I didn’t say
anything and she walked out of the shop. So much for déjà vu! (I didn’t
buy the broach for myself; that would be pointless.) Hand of the Cause
Faizi once said that dreams are composed of overlapping layers, the
way, say, blue and yellow overlap to make green. I have not been able
to ﬁgure out the layering of the ﬁsh-broach dream.

Come to think of it, Rúḥíyyih Khánum did give me a broach.
When I was in the Holy Land in 1989 she gave me an Israeli-made
silver broach in the shape of a bow knot, very charming. There was a
card that went with it which said to think of her when I wore it, which I
have many times.

Back to the trip to Kamakura. After shopping on Enoshima, we
still had not had lunch. I spotted a Kentucky Fried Chicken restaurant
—deﬁnitely not Japanese food. Rúḥíyyih Khánum was not too interest-
ed but as there was no other place nearby we went there. It was almost
empty. She saw a moth high up on the window trying to get out, and
she stepped up on the seat and carefully caught the insect and took it
outside to set it free. She told of ﬁnding a bee in a similar situation, but
very cold, in Paris. She rescued the bee and fed it some sugar and water
until it revived and could ﬂy off. We returned to Tokyo after chicken.
‘Amatu’l-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum spent nine weeks in Japan in
1978, traveling around the country. I heard many of the talks she gave,
and was privileged to chat with her a number of times, and following
are my recollections of some of her remarks. On more than one occa-
sion Rúḥíyyih Khánum talked about the similarities between Japanese
values and the teachings and principles of the Bahá’í Faith. She said
that in all the countries she had visited, she had never encountered
another people whose values so closely corresponded to those of the
Faith, and she listed them, saying the Japanese were the only people
she knew of who manifested every one of them: sense of responsibility
(she said doing what you say you’ll do, not promising to do what you
won’t do); consultation and consensus (she said if you ask a couple of
Japanese whether, say, it’s better to go somewhere by train or bus, you
will not get an answer right away; they will invariably discuss it be-
tween themselves and reach a consensus, and give you their collective
answer—which reﬂects, Rúḥíyyih Khánum said, the idea “two heads
are better than one”); courtesy and considerateness (polite behavior and
speech, which, she said, seemed to be rubbing off on the pioneers, to
the extent that they would bow to her); moderation (she said Shoghi
Effendi called the Bahá’í Faith “the religion of the golden mean”);
faithfulness or ﬁdelity (she gave the example of the story of the “47
Ronin”); justice (she said the Japanese greatly resent injustice); honesty

(she said Japan was the only country she had spent an extended period
of time in where she did not encounter dishonesty); thrift; cleanliness
and neatness; a keen sense of aesthetics and a love of beauty; humility;
reasonableness; respect for motherhood (she said not rejecting it out-
right in the name of liberation, placing value on the maintenance of the
home and the bringing up of children); patience and forbearance;
reverence for religious or sacred objects; prostration (the physical act of
humbling oneself out of reverence); belief in an afterlife, including
intercession; respect for authority, rank, and age; primogeniture; and
constitutional monarchy.[68;214]
Rúḥíyyih Khánum went on to ask a question: If the Japanese
already have in their culture so many of the teachings of the Faith, why
should they become Bahá’ís? I believe Rúḥíyyih Khánum asked that
question rhetorically, to get us thinking. You could ask that question
another way: Why haven’t the Japanese become Bahá’ís if they natu-
rally believe so much of what the Faith stands for? I think the answer to
that question is the theological aspect, the divine. While the Japanese
mind is chock full of great values and principles like respect, politeness,
humility, consultation, etc., the space in the Japanese mind where ideas
such as a transcendent God and a Manifestation might go is currently
unoccupied—the space is certainly there, though, as the Writings make
clear that all human beings are endowed with the capacity to know and
to worship God through the Manifestation. It gives you an idea of the
innate qualities of the Japanese people that they acquired all the above
listed attributes and values without the guidance of a Manifestation.
Actually, Rúḥíyyih Khánum answered her above question. She
said to tell the Japanese to look at the world around them, that the
world was pulling apart, hatred and division, economic and social
disorder, prevailed, that a new system was obviously needed, that the
spiritual evolution of humankind was necessary and inevitable, that the
education of the human race, like that of an individual, was progressive
and by grades or stages and that it was time to enter a new stage, the
age of maturity of the human race, and that the Japanese reﬂected so
many of the qualities necessary for peace and love to prevail in the
world, that they had so much to offer toward a new spiritualized order.
It seemed to me Rúḥíyyih Khánum was suggesting to go about the

teaching of the Faith in Japan by putting it in a historical, cultural, and
social context—the theology could come later, that mental space could
be ﬁlled in due course. Rúḥíyyih Khánum added that she thought Japan
was an ideal bridge between East and West, because it was an Eastern
nation that had thoroughly Westernized, to the point of conquering the
world economically, but had held on to Eastern values.
Speaking about the Faith in Japan, Rúḥíyyih Khánum repeated
what Shoghi Effendi stressed (see Agnes Alexander’s History and
Japan Will Turn Ablaze) and also Hand of the Cause Dr. Muhajir
emphasized, which was that consolidation, including deepening, was
vitally important. She said she was impressed by the Japanese believers
and the pioneers as well, but thought that there was not enough of
translating individual belief into social action, that the Bahá’ís were too
passive. And when social action, i.e., teaching and proclamation,
occurred, it had to include consolidation. I can say that this has been a
perennial problem: the follow-up effort to teaching campaigns. It is
especially important in forming and maintaining Assemblies, and there
has historically not been enough of it. Until this problem is dealt with it
will be slow-going in Japan and in many other countries, and one
purpose of Institute courses is to address this problem, it seems to me.
In comments to Agnes Alexander in Haifa that she records in her
History of the Bahá’í Faith in Japan Shoghi Effendi said to stress the
oneness of the human race when teaching the Faith in Japan, and I
recall Rúḥíyyih Khánum spoke of this principle. When she did, it
reminded me of a general letter on this theme that Rúḥíyyih Khánum
wrote back in the 1940s to the Bahá’í youth of the world, a letter that I
have always liked:
The other day a man asked Shoghi Effendi: “What is the
object of life to a Bahá’í?” As the Guardian repeated his
answer to me (I had not been present with the visitor),
indeed, before he did, I wondered in my own mind what it
had been. Had he told the man that to us the object of life
is to know God, or perfect our own character? I never
really dreamed of the answer he had given, which was
this: the object of life to a Bahá’í is to promote the oneness
of mankind. The whole object of our lives is bound up

with the lives of all human beings: not a personal salvation
we are seeking, but a universal one. We are not to cast
eyes within ourselves and say “Now get busy saving your
soul and reserving a comfortable berth in the Next
World!” No, we are to get busy on bringing Heaven to the
Planet. That is a very big concept. The Guardian then
went on to explain that our aim is to produce a world
civilization which will in turn react on the character of the
individual. It is, in a way, the inverse of Christianity which
started with the individual unit and through it reach[ed]
out to the conglomerate life of men.[69;218]
Another talk Rúḥíyyih Khánum gave that made a strong impres-
sion on me was about love. She said love is that basic force that binds
everything. It attracts and stabilizes. Love creates unity, and unity must
prevail in all human relationships. She acknowledged that it can be
difﬁcult to actually like certain people, but we must love them through
and for Bahá’u’lláh. Further, when we interact with others and have
any difﬁculties doing so, we must think, What would be pleasing to
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, the Exemplar, in this situation, or what might He do?
Having had the experiences that she had with certain persons and
circumstances in Haifa, Rúḥíyyih Khánum said she was very sensitive
to disunity. She said on one occasion, while visiting a particular coun-
try, she encountered a serious case of disunity and it literally made her
sick—she returned to her hotel room and went straight to bed. She said
that disunity, speciﬁcally Covenant-breaking and disobedience, affect-
ed Shoghi Effendi worst of all, driving him to bed for days at a time,
and that those episodes shortened his life.
During a Q-and-A session following a talk, Rúḥíyyih Khánum
was asked about the connection between this world and the next. She
answered that at the time a Manifestation appears, the “veil” (the word
she used, from the Writings) between this world and the Kingdom thins
greatly. At such a time, people are more prone to dreaming about or
having visions of another world, having “spiritual experiences”, and
many develop millenarian expectations. She said it was this thinning of
the veil that Shaykh Aḥmad sensed before the Báb’s advent, that
explains people dreaming about the Báb or Bahá’u’lláh and instanta-

neously accepting His Cause, that explains the radiance of the martyrs.
She said her mother May Maxwell once recounted ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
saying that at such a time, depending on the conditions of the “atmo-
sphere”, “clairvoyant” and “clairaudient” experiences were more prone
to happening (Rúḥíyyih Khánum’s words in quote marks), and she
added matter-of-factly (she always spoke matter-of-factly) that she
believed in “ghosts”, based on personal and family experience. She
explained, by the way, that the family experience was that of her
maternal grandmother, whose home seemed to have been haunted by a
departed maid, who banged around in the kitchen; the family decided
to pray that the maid give up her attachment to this world and turn her
attention to the next world where she was, and the sounds stopped soon
after the prayers started. I should say that Rúḥíyyih Khánum did not
have to explain, and didn’t, that this was not a case or an endorsement
of séances, ouija boards, trumpets, mediums, and the like, and I am sure
no one in the audience thought it was—I certainly didn’t. ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá’s and Shoghi Effendi’s comments on these matters are clear:
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, for instance, warns against “tampering with psychic
forces”. You can read about this subject under “Oneness of the Two
Worlds” in Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era and “Psychic Phenomena” in
Lights of Guidance.
Rúḥíyyih Khánum moved on from this topic to what she said was
the most important kind of connection between the two worlds: inter-
cession. She pointed out the passage in Gleanings (no. lxxxi) where
Bahá’u’lláh speaks of pure and sanctiﬁed souls in the next world and
states that
the light which these souls radiate is responsible for the
progress of the world and the advancement of its peoples.
They are like unto leaven which leaveneth the world of
being, and constitute the animating force through which
the arts and wonders of the world are made manifest.
Through them the clouds rain their bounty upon men, and
the earth bringeth forth its fruits. All things must needs
have a cause, a motive power, an animating principle.
These souls and symbols of detachment have provided,
and will continue to provide, the supreme moving impulse

in the world of being.
It is possible through prayer, Rúḥíyyih Khánum said, to ask souls in the
next world, such as our departed loved ones, to intercede for us, to help
us. Of course praying to the Manifestation is the most effective form of
supplication, Rúḥíyyih Khánum said, but intercession is a teaching of
the Faith and we can make use of it. She said she sometimes would do
just that, with the Greatest Holy Leaf or her mother May Maxwell or
others—she said there were great souls such as Martha Root and Agnes
Alexander in the Kingdom, and she thought she would give them
something to do up there by occasionally asking them to help!
Rúḥíyyih Khánum said the model for this was Shoghi Effendi’s tearful
letter written in 1932 when the Greatest Holy Leaf passed away, asking
her to bear a message to ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that He intercede with His
Father in behalf of him and all Bahá’ís.[70;218] Rúḥíyyih Khánum
further said Shoghi Effendi told her that if she was to request interces-
sion it was important she have a clear idea what the intercession was
for and to whom the request for intercession was being addressed, i.e.,
the relative station, stature, or limitation of that person—asking Abdu’l-
Bahá to intercede, asking the Greatest Holy Leaf to intercede, asking
Martha Root to intercede, and asking your departed cousin to intercede,
are all very different things, but all permissible under the Teachings.
Rúḥíyyih Khánum gave an example of her own request for
intercession. She said early in the project to build the Seat of the
Universal House of Justice in Haifa, she was once talking on-site to
Husayn Amanat, the architect of the Seat and the other administrative
buildings on Mount Carmel, telling him what she recalled of Shoghi
Effendi’s remarks about the future Arc, and when leaving the site she
suggested they go to the Shrine of the Báb to pray about the project.
She said that in the Shrine she prayed to the Báb and then asked her
departed father, William Sutherland Maxwell, architect of the Shrine, to
intercede with Bahá’u’lláh to inspire Mr. Amanat in the design of the
buildings of the Arc. (If you look at how the buildings turned out, it
seems there was plenty of inspiration!) Finally on the subject of inter-
cession, Rúḥíyyih Khánum pointed out that it is two-way: just as
departed ones can intercede in our behalf, we can pray for departed
ones, for the progress of their souls in the higher worlds of God.

I mentioned the Japanese tea ceremony and personal
“experiences” above, and these came together in a talk Rúḥíyyih
Khánum gave on the Birthday of Bahá’u’lláh. For most of the talk she
told stories about Bahá’u’lláh, but she also spoke brieﬂy about an
experience she herself had that she described as “strange” in a very
pleasant way. She said that while she was participating in the tea
ceremony a few days earlier at a Zen Buddhist temple in Kyoto, she
suddenly got a very strong feeling that Bahá’u’lláh would have greatly
appreciated and savored the tranquility, simplicity, and beauty of the tea
ceremony, and that He would have savored it to a degree that no one
ever had or could, because of the extreme sensitivity of a Manifestation.
She did not say much else about it, but I got the impression that
Rúḥíyyih Khánum felt she had had a sort of mystical experience or
realization—you might say enlightenment—during the tea ceremony.
Which shows her own great sensitivity.
One thing I remember clearly about Rúḥíyyih Khánum’s talks
and private conversations is how much she respected her mother May
Maxwell. This went beyond the love of a daughter for her mother and
was a profound admiration on the part of one believer for another. She
said she especially admired her mother’s capacity for generosity and
love, and prayed that she could acquire these qualities. May Maxwell
was sickly most of her life, and Rúḥíyyih Khánum said ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
had stated that God chose the physically feeblest instrument by which
to establish the Faith in Europe and thus be a sign of His power.
Rúḥíyyih Khánum very much liked naturalness in people and had
no use for any pretension. She said Shoghi Effendi valued naturalness,
and it was one of the things he so liked about Saichiro Fujita. Shoghi
Effendi disliked ambition in people, she said, although he said we
should vie with each other in service. She also said Shoghi Effendi was
very humble and would physically recoil if he was praised personally,
but he always insisted on respect for the station of the Guardianship
and the stature of the Faith. Rúḥíyyih Khánum regularly quoted Shoghi
Effendi’s counsels, and one she repeated a number of times was that he
expected the believers to always make an all-out effort in whatever
activity—teaching, administration—they were engaged. She said never,
ever do anything half-heartedly. When she was speaking of Shoghi

Effendi one time, I asked Rúḥíyyih Khánum about her biography of
him, The Priceless Pearl, and she said Shoghi Effendi’s habit through-
out of his life of writing everything down and keeping meticulous
records was a big help. She said it took her one year to write the book;
she would have a big breakfast, start writing, and work through to 5
p.m. every day.
In the course of her visit to Japan, Rúḥíyyih Khánum called on
Takahito, Prince Mikasa—the youngest brother of then reigning
Emperor Hirohito—and Yuriko, Princess Mikasa. Rúḥíyyih Khánum
later said most of the conversation was about the Faith, and in the
course of talking about the Faith she said she mentioned that she had
visited the homes of buraku and Ainu members of the Faith, the former
being a social outcast group and the latter an aboriginal minority. I do
not remember Rúḥíyyih Khánum explaining how or why this came up,
but she did say that the princess in particular seemed interested in the
visit with the buraku believer, asking questions about it, and that the
prince said discrimination had been a serious problem in Japan. Prince
Mikasa also stated that he believed Japan had a great spiritual future.
[71;218]
Rúḥíyyih Khánum said many other things in the course of talks
and conversations, and following are some that I recall: Bahá’u’lláh
will forgive us our wrongs and faults, but surely the most difﬁcult to
forgive is lost opportunities. If we are given opportunities to advance
the Faith, we absolutely must not waste them. Rúḥíyyih Khánum said
she can feel if a person can “hear”, or has an ear for the Faith, and if so
she never loses the opportunity to speak with that person. If you do
something for the Faith expecting praise and love from the friends, you
may not receive it and it is not a conﬁrmation if you do; act only for
Bahá’u’lláh, His acceptance or conﬁrmation is what matters, and you
will be surprised then how the praise and appreciation of the friends
will come naturally. Speaking of teaching and consolidation, she said
they should be like ironing: going over and over the same place thor-
oughly. She said it is the Will of God for the Faith to be accepted and
eventually for the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh to be established, but it
is up to the Bahá’ís to make it happen, and the longer we delay the
realization of God’s Will, the more the Faith, the world, and each one

of us individually will suffer. About personal tests, Rúḥíyyih Khánum
said Shoghi Effendi once told her that there was a tendency for people
to think their own tests or difﬁculties are unique or are worse than
others’, but we must understand that there are others who are in a
worse situation, face more severe tests, than we. We must put our
personal situation in perspective. No matter how bad or good our
situation, there will always be those who are worse off or better off
than we are. Each of us must, in that sense, be content with or accept
his or her situation, although of course we can beseech Bahá’u’lláh for
relief from problems, improvements in our lives, and to be enabled to
better serve the Faith. About seekers, Rúḥíyyih Khánum said the Faith
is like a supermarket. There is a wide range of things available, but if
you work at the supermarket and someone comes in wanting a dozen
eggs, you should not try to sell toothpaste to that person. Eventually
that person will buy toothpaste and all sorts of other things, but at that
particular time he or she may need eggs, nothing more nothing less, and
that is what you should make sure he or she gets. About the seeker
becoming a Bahá’í, Rúḥíyyih Khánum said the conditions are accep-
tance of the Báb, Bahá’u’lláh, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, and the Administrative
Order. Since no one is perfect, there will never be a seeker, or a new
believer, who is ready immediately to live every single one of the
Bahá’í principles and laws. That comes with deepening. Eventually,
however, the believer, if he or she truly believes, must commit to
putting into practice the principles and following the laws of the Faith,
and there cannot be any compromise on that. There will never be
perfection, of course, but there must be sincere commitment and effort.
Speaking of the Feast Rúḥíyyih Khánum said that the believers should
be drawn to it like a magnet and that it is the responsibility of the
Assembly or community to magnetize the Feast. At the Feast and other
occasions it is important that prayers and readings be recited clearly,
that the sound of the spoken Word is important and can produce a
strong effect but not if it is whispered or mumbled. Another thing
Rúḥíyyih Khánum said is that just as you marry a man or woman and
have biological children, so you marry yourself to the Faith and have
spiritual children; your biological and spiritual children in turn have
children, and so on, and the human race is propagated biologically and

spiritually.
Asked about sacriﬁce, Rúḥíyyih Khánum said it is a matter of
detachment, not denial—it is okay to have possessions, to have mun-
dane routines in your life such as watching TV and whatnot, but never
be so attached to any of these things that you allow them to interfere
with service to the Faith—prioritize the Faith above all. Also, sacriﬁce
is relative: for an infant, giving up a toy may be the only kind of
sacriﬁce it understands or can make, and actually giving that toy up
may be a supreme act of sacriﬁce for that infant, which is why it cries
so hard, although to an adult it may seem funny or silly or, indeed,
childish. Rúḥíyyih Khánum said that when she married Shoghi Effendi
and went to live in Haifa, there were changes, adjustments, and difﬁ-
culties, even hardships, for her, particularly in the early years, involving
sacriﬁce, which Shoghi Effendi was well aware of. One time some-
what later, when she did not get her way on some minor matter and
pouted about it, she said Shoghi Effendi said to her something she
never forgot, “You’ve sacriﬁced so much, you can sacriﬁce on this
matter too.” Rúḥíyyih Khánum said she realized that sacriﬁce was a
part of service and was inevitable. It seemed to me she was suggesting
that sacriﬁces you might have made in the past did not amount to ﬁlling
some quota of sacriﬁce, meaning you were done with it, but rather that
sacriﬁce, of some degree or another, is continual.
Rúḥíyyih Khánum said during one of her talks that she had spent
a great deal of time thinking about what she was saying, that these were
not offhand or uninformed remarks. I got the impression from that and
from comments she made in private conversation that she always
thoroughly prepared herself for her travels, that it was not simply a
matter of deciding what to take and packing suitcases, but was about
studying the countries and the peoples she would be visiting, talking to
House of Justice members responsible for that part of the world,
Counsellors at the I.T.C. or on the Boards, and picking the brains of
people in the countries when she arrived there, whether pioneers or
native believers. Her manner of speaking, certainly to gatherings of
Bahá’ís, was not formal but casual, like she was chatting with you
personally, but a great deal of thought went into what she was saying,
and as such I have realized that we should not just listen to but also

study her talks. There are plenty of her talks given all over the world
that were recorded, and she wrote several books too, and these should
be considered resources for study.

I remember one day Rúḥíyyih Khánum asked me detailed ques-
tions about my situation. I hesitated to talk much about myself, but she
said when you get to know a person you are interested in his or her life
and she wanted to know about mine. My life had hit a low point during
those years. My marriage had ended and my kids were gone to univer-
sity. I was lonely, but at least I was busy, being employed and also
being the assistant secretary of the N.S.A. and living right across the
street from the Bahá’í Center. Rúḥíyyih Khánum listened to me talk
about my situation and did not respond with a lengthy pep talk with
extended quotations from the Writings or with psychoanalysis. Her
advice was brief and practical: pray every morning, make plans for the
day for what Bahá’í work I was going to do and make sure to carry the
plans out, always go out on weekends, and ﬁnd the good in everything.
It reminded me of the very practical and useful advice in her books
Prescription for Living and Manual for Pioneers. I devoted the follow-
ing year, 1979, to full-time travel-teaching around Japan, and I deﬁnite-
ly followed her points of advice.

The kindness of Rúḥíyyih Khánum, and of Violette Nakhjavani
as well, and the memory of it, has helped me through the years. I have
had the impression, from all the times I saw her in Haifa and Japan and
elsewhere, that Rúḥíyyih Khánum was especially fond of the believers
who went pioneering during the Ten-Year Crusade. They had an-
swered the Guardian’s call at that crucial time in the history of the
Faith.
Hand of the Cause Tarazullah Samandari
In 1966 Hand of the Cause Tarazullah Samandari visited Japan.
He stayed for about three months, during which period he made trips to
Korea, the Philippines, and Taiwan as well as various parts of Japan.
He spoke at public events, at Bahá’í meetings, at Bahá’í Center dedica-
tions, and met with Assemblies. He stayed at the Momtazi family home
in Kansai, which was his base for the sojourn. I accompanied Mr.
Samandari to the northern island of Hokkaido for the purpose of

proclamation, visiting the friends, and dedicating a Bahá’í Center in the
town of Shiraoi. During our travels we had several meetings, both
N.S.A. and general. Every Bahá’í in Hokkaido was amply notiﬁed and
was within travel distance to see and hear Mr. Samandari. I took son
Sheridan and some of the believers brought their children. At the
airport the kids were playing, chasing each other around, and Mr.
Samandari smiled benevolently while watching them, commenting that
children had so much energy they needed to do something with it.

In Japanese train stations, after getting off the train on a platform
between tracks you climb up stairs to go over the tracks and out. In the
1960s there were no escalators or elevators, and I remember at one
station the stairs seemed endless—perhaps three ﬂights. Mr. Samandari
looked up at them brieﬂy and then suddenly, with strong strides, went
bounding up. Good heavens, I couldn’t do that, and I was 40 years
younger!
Mr. Samandari visited Agnes Alexander in the hospital in
Tokyo. She had been there for a year with a fractured hip, after a fall.
She was not in pain, however, and she enjoyed chatting with visitors.
Agnes and Mr. Samandari spent some of their time together trying to
decide who was older. He was, actually, by about nine months, but he
told her he would give her the honor! They were both in their early
90s.
In one of his talks in Japan Mr. Samandari put great emphasis on
the Feast. He said to come close to God we must ﬁrst come close to
each other. Nothing is sweeter than meeting the Friends of God, and
the Feast is the primary occasion for that. I do not remember Mr.
Samandari talking about his own meeting with Bahá’u’lláh, although
he did speak of the Manifestation of God and His Mission, that He had
borne His suffering to make a new creation. Mr. Samandari also spoke
of Ṭáhirih, Qurratu’l-‘Ayn, pointing out admiringly that she had
recognized the station of the Báb without ever meeting Him, had
recognized the station of Bahá’u’lláh before He declared it, and had
recognized the station of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá when He was an infant.
I remember that before he went out for the day in an automobile,
Mr. Samandari would unfold a green cloth, take a prayerbook out of it,
recite a prayer, then carefully fold up the prayerbook in the cloth and

put it away. Mr. Samandari was a calligrapher and sometimes drew
Greatest Names for the friends, adding a personalized inscription at the
bottom of each. He kindly drew one for me, which I had framed, and it
has since hung on a wall in my apartment, a source of inspiration and
memories.[72;220]
Hand of the Cause Agnes Alexander
Agnes Alexander was not a visitor to Japan, of course, but a
resident—our bounty. She was appointed Hand of the Cause in March
1957 just before the election of the ﬁrst National Spiritual Assembly of
North East Asia. We therefore had the privilege of two Hands attend-
ing our National Convention, as Jalal Khazeh was the Guardian’s
representative. Agnes and I served together on that Assembly until
1963, when it was decided that the Hands of the Cause would no
longer serve on Assemblies, in order to leave them free to teach and
protect the Faith, their primary responsibilities. Agnes’ life seemed not
to change after becoming a Hand except that maybe she wrote to more
people on a regular basis, but she always had a very large correspon-
dence. After she was appointed Hand I recall an Assembly member
saying “As she is now a Hand of the Cause we should address her as
‘Miss Alexander’ instead of ‘Agnes’.” In as tactful a way as possible I
responded that I intended to call her “Agnes”, as I had always done.
I felt a responsibility toward Agnes. I was vigorous and had a car
to get around in; Agnes was elderly and used to take streetcars or buses
around town. She lived in Kyoto during most of the post-World War 2
period but spent much time in Tokyo, staying at International House,
and I was usually her driver. She was fond of the food at the U.S.
military facilities so we sometimes went to the military hotel in Tokyo,
the Sanno, as I had an ID card. Agnes was quite healthy and seemed to
be able to eat anything and everything despite being thin—she would
go back for seconds at the buffet—but still, she was up there in years.
When I came to Japan in 1953 she was already 78. She had no idea
what her weight was and didn’t care either. She told me she had never
been sick in her life and had never been in a hospital.
Agnes wrote regularly to her old Bahá’í friends, and also never
failed to send notes of encouragement to newly-arrived pioneers, which

were short, empathetic, and often typed on postcards. In those days
people wrote letters—very little telephoning. Agnes did not like to
write in longhand. She told me she was actually left-handed but had
been forced to use her right hand in school and consequently never felt
comfortable writing by hand. She had a small portable typewriter that
she carried around everywhere, and she usually corresponded with that.
It often skipped so her letters were full of penciled-in connecting marks.
She had a habit of marking up with pencil not only her letters but also
her books. When I mentioned this to her one time she said “Dearie,
how could I ever ﬁnd that passage again, that is why I underlined it.” I
thought it was a good idea and now my books all have penciled notes
and underlines.
Agnes always showed her genteel upbringing; she had great
dignity, always speaking properly, dressing well. Light blue was her
favorite color. Particularly in the prewar years she must have looked
quite distinctive to the Japanese, being relatively tall, with light hair and
blue eyes. She told me that in the early days in Japan, when she walked
down the street, a dozen or more neighborhood children would follow
her.
Agnes was detached, living in the Kingdom, and it could be
difﬁcult to get close to her, though she had many friends. She was good
friends with the aforementioned Mr. and Ms. Torii, the early Bahá’ís,
and Mr. and Ms. Tsunemi, who became Bahá’ís later; Ms. Torii and
Ms. Tsunemi were sisters. Agnes lived with or near the Tsunemi family
for some years. She had much affection for Michitoshi Zenimoto (later
to be appointed Counsellor), whom she brought into the Faith in the
early 1950s. As for the pioneers, she was quite fond of Yadullah Rafaat
and Phil Marangella, among those in Tokyo, and Johnny McHenry in
Korea. She had quite a few non-Bahá’í Japanese acquaintances—
contacts made over the years—including Esperantists. Once when we
were chatting I asked Agnes if she was ever lonely all the years in
Japan. She answered “Never.” But I wonder—most of the solitary
pioneers I know have said they go through phases of loneliness.
I said Agnes seemed to live in the Kingdom, and that was a
reﬂection of her great love for and uncommon devotion to the Faith.
She had lived on her own for most of her life and I felt she was quite

independent of mere mortals. She functioned on what she called
“guidance”. She would get strong feelings about things and always had
faith that her “guidance” would move her in the right direction. Her
guidance could be manifested in quite an independent streak: on more
than one occasion I contacted her in my capacity as N.S.A. secretary to
coordinate on a particular matter, and she responded something like
“The Assembly can do whatever it wishes, dearie. I have already
received my guidance and am acting on that.” Once I asked Agnes
about her guidance and how she knew it was that, and she said she felt
a joy in her heart, and this joy was a conﬁrmation of whatever thought
she had or action she was taking. Sometimes for no apparent reason she
would feel happy, and I recall one time when this happened she said
“Something wonderful is happening in the spiritual world!” It must
have been this connection to the Kingdom that explains her telling me
she had never been lonely.
Agnes ﬁrst came to Japan in November 1914 in response to
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s stated desire for her to do so, and left in July 1917;
returned at ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s urging in August 1919 and left in October
1923; again to Japan in January 1928 at the Guardian’s urging and
returned to Hawaii in May 1933; back to Japan in May 1935, again at
the Guardian’s request, left in March 1937; and did not return to Japan
until after the Second World War, in May 1950, staying until Septem-
ber 1967, when she left permanently for Hawaii—Agnes used to say
that her ﬁrst two stays in Japan were at the command of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
and the last three at the command of Shoghi Effendi; that it was accord-
ing to the Will of God, not her own volition, that she lived in Japan. In
the prewar period Agnes lived in Tokyo, most of the postwar period in
Kyoto, although she often traveled around Japan. During the postwar
block of 17 years she traveled overseas frequently as well, to the Holy
Land, the U.S., and Asian countries. In total Agnes Alexander lived
about 31 years in Japan over a span of nearly 53 years.
The last two years in Japan Agnes was hospitalized and mostly
bedridden, following a fall, and when she left Japan permanently it was
in a wheelchair, at age 92. Agnes fell and broke her hip while staying
at International House in Tokyo, in July 1965. Pioneer Phil Marangella,
who lived at International House, helped with getting her to a hospital

and tending to her. We were frantic about what to do. Hand of the
Cause Dr. Muhajir came to Japan shortly after and helped us greatly by
asking Ruth Walbridge, an American pioneer in the Philippines and a
trained nurse, to relocate to Japan to be Agnes’ private nurse. Ruth
moved to Tokyo, lived in the Bahá’í Center, and spent every day at the
hospital for two years, then accompanied Agnes to Hawaii and left her
in the care of relatives. Ruth returned to Japan and married Hideya
Suzuki, who was to become the ﬁrst Japanese Counsellor. I always felt
that Agnes was ultimately under the care of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, but at a
practical, daily level, without Ruth we could not have managed looking
after her those two years.
During the time she was in hospital in Tokyo Agnes was visited
by fellow Hands Mr. Samandari and Dr. Muhajir and Paul Haney,
among many others. She was an example to us even in those circum-
stances, never pitying herself, always welcoming her visitors. I recall
that while in hospital she wanted very much to keep the Fast—although
of course for many years she had not been required to keep it, she
always did so when she was able to. The only reason she gave up on
the idea was that it would have been difﬁcult to serve breakfast at the
proper time, especially considering that Ruth had to commute to the
hospital every morning. Agnes could be particular about meal-times,
incidentally: when she ﬁrst entered the hospital the staff brought dinner
at 5:30, but Agnes told them “I never have dinner so early. Please bring
it at 6:30.” And they did thereafter, just for her.
Agnes Alexander never walked again, and passed away in
January 1971 in Hawaii. The Guardian would indicate in his letters
why the Hands of the Cause were appointed, and in Agnes’ case he
called her an “exemplary pioneer”. She was certainly and truly an
example. I could never have developed her single-mindedness nor her
humility, but I learned much from her. One time during a very lively
N.S.A. consultation she turned to me and exclaimed “Dearie, I am
training you!”—that she did. While in the hospital Agnes gave me a
rosary of dark blue beads; she held it up and said “Take this, dearie, it
suits you better.” I still have it, use it often, and when I do I think of
Agnes, whom ‘Abdu’l-Bahá called the “daughter of the Kingdom”.

Hand of the Cause Rahmatullah Muhajir

Dr. Muhajir was the Hand of the Cause who affected me the
most. I am looking forward to seeing him in the next life, God permit-
ting. He visited Japan many times, the ﬁrst being in 1961, four years
after he was appointed Hand of the Cause. The ﬁrst time he came, his
English, while adequate, was somewhat limited. He asked to meet with
the National Spiritual Assembly as he wanted to discuss all the coun-
tries in our jurisdiction, which were Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong
and Macau. He did not seem to know a great deal about the area,
having spent his pioneer years in Southeast Asia, but the second time
he visited, not long after, his English was quite good and he knew
everything about our area—he had thoroughly studied English and read
up on the countries. One of my memories of Dr. Muhajir is that he was
very studious. I say this because I know he did much reading at the
library of the International House, where he stayed when in Tokyo, and
when he visited the Kansai region (where the cities of Osaka, Kobe,
and Kyoto are) he would spend hours at the home of Counsellor Ruhi
Momtazi reading copies of tablets of the Central Figures that had been
distributed to the Boards of Counsellors for safekeeping. Also I remem-
ber one time when he came to Japan he was studying Spanish so he
could better communicate with the Bahá’ís in South America.
In all the years I knew Dr. Muhajir, 17 or 18 total, I could only
marvel at but never understand him. He was actually younger than I but
he seemed older because of his wisdom, which by a few words or
gestures he would so effectively impart to us. Not that he consciously
gave this impression, just that I felt it. He was far beyond any of us but
he was also down to earth and full of humor. He said to me once “In
the next life there will be a Holy Land and there will be a Japan. I will
be in Japan.” How much we all learned from him—obvious things, and
subtle things of the heart and soul. I remember once he told us that we
should pray to be the answer to another person’s prayer. I often think of
that—how interrelated we all are.
Doctor—we sometimes called him simply “Doctor”—was
impatient with teaching work but very patient, forbearing, with Bahá’ís
individually. He never gave up on any of the friends, even if they had
let him down by their inaction. I recall the ﬁrst time he visited he

wanted to see all the letters the Guardian had written to Japan. He said
anything the Guardian suggested, we should follow. It seems obvious,
but it had not occurred to us and we were not doing it.
One time after a meeting in the early ’60s I took Dr. Muhajir back
to his hotel in my car. En route my asthma acted up badly, and I had to
use my spray inhaler again and again to breathe. I had not mentioned
this afﬂiction to Doctor and he was surprised. I went on to tell him how
severe it often was, how I sometimes gasped for breath. He said to me
“So, that is how you could do so much.” I have wondered what he
meant by that. Another time when I was having some bad asthma
attacks I said I just didn’t know how I could continue; I felt I was
becoming incapacitated. I suppose I was expecting a little sympathy,
but Doctor looked at me and said in a matter-of-fact way “People with
asthma are so spiritual. When others are sleeping, they can’t sleep, so
they stay up and pray. Shirin Fozdar has asthma too.” So much for
sympathy! Shirin Fozdar was a devoted pioneer and women’s rights
advocate in Southeast Asia who also graced Japan with her presence,
and it was an honor to be mentioned in the same breath as her—just not
for asthma!
Dr. Muhajir and Agnes Alexander greatly admired each other.
Doctor always visited Agnes when he came to Japan, and in Hawaii
after she returned there in 1967. He told me that no one could be
mentioned by name in the Tablets of the Divine Plan, as Agnes was,
and not be an extraordinary person. Doctor was the youngest of the
Hands next to Enoch Olinga, Agnes the oldest next to Mr. Samandari,
and Doctor, being a student of Bahá’í history, I think regarded Agnes
as living, breathing history.
Dr. Muhajir was the one who ﬁrst told us about mass-teaching.
He had started it in various countries and thought that the Northeast
Asian countries could do so too. At an N.S.A. meeting in 1963 he told
us about how mass-teaching was starting in Korea. I was fascinated by
his description of it, and in 1964 I tried what he described, though not
on the scale he described. I went north to Hokkaido with a Japanese
Bahá’í college student, Shozo Inoue, met up with G.V. Tehrani, an
Iranian pioneer who was living in Sapporo, the largest city in Hokkaido
(where he was instrumental in the establishment of its ﬁrst L.S.A. in

1959), and we three went teaching, mainly in the indigenous Ainu
villages.[73;221] It was an amazing experience: each day was com-
pletely different, and could be totally unproductive or highly
productive, but after a couple of weeks we had a number of enroll-
ments—albeit not masses—and I believe they truly believed. We could
have kept them if we had had any kind of consolidation program, but
we did not. On more than one occasion over the years in Japan I was
made to realize how important follow-up efforts are to initial teaching
activities. Those villages have now mostly become Japanese towns and
the atmosphere is quite different from that of the 1960s.
I remember once looking in our ﬁles to try to determine how
many times Dr. Muhajir visited Japan. The best I could come up with
was 18 or 19. But I recall one time he came for our National Conven-
tion, hopped over to Korea for two days for their Convention, then
returned to Japan. Does that count as two visits or one? One time in the
1970s he came with his wife Iran and daughter Gisu: they stayed in the
Kansai region with the Katirai family for several months, as the Muha-
jirs were thinking about relocating to Japan (they ended up not doing
so). Dr. Muhajir was in and out of the country during that period. So,
there is no way we can count the visits accurately. But I suppose the
exact count doesn’t matter—he was here when we needed him.
Once I presented Doctor several summer shirts to distribute as
gifts for some of the Bahá’ís in the East Asian communities. I had
gotten the shirts at a bargain sale at the U.S. military Base Exchange. In
1967 I went to Taiwan to attend that community’s ﬁrst National Con-
vention. After the Convention, Auxiliary Board Member Khudarahm
Payman, pioneer in Indonesia, one of the Taiwan N.S.A. members, and
I traveled around the island visiting the Bahá’ís. When we arrived at the
city of Tainan Mr. Suleiman Suleimani, long-time pioneer in Taiwan,
was at the airport to meet us, wearing what looked like one of the shirts
I had bought, white with black stripes. I asked Mr. Suleimani where he
got it. He replied that Dr. Muhajir had presented him the shirt and now
he always wore it to Bahá’í meetings. I mention this to point out how
we in the East Asian Bahá’í communities connected with each other
through Dr. Muhajir. He traveled among us so often that we could
communicate with and send gifts to one another through him. He was a

binding force that brought us closer together.
In the early days Dr. Muhajir always came into Japan at Tokyo,
asking me, as secretary, to arrange a meeting of the N.S.A. After
Ruhollah (Ruhi) Momtazi was appointed Counsellor in 1968, Dr.
Muhajir would often go to the Kansai region, where Ruhi lived, to
consult. Whether he was consulting with Counsellors or Assemblies,
with Doctor everything was teaching. When he visited he would
invariably have a new approach or a new area to be taught. We could
hardly keep up with his ideas. If we had done everything he wanted us
to do, Japan would have turned ablaze back in the 1960s. You could
probably say that about many places he visited around the world.
In 1970 there was a large, months-long international exhibition in
Osaka, called Expo 70. When Dr. Muhajir visited Japan at that time he
advised the N.S.A. to make a pamphlet we could pass out. I recall
Doctor and the N.S.A. sat for several hours designing the pamphlet.
Actually Doctor himself did most of the pamphlet but naturally he
called it the N.S.A.’s. It was attractive and presented the basic teach-
ings of the Faith, and gave an address where inquiries could be
directed. It was not only attractive but also effective, so much so that
another Asian N.S.A. produced a version in Chinese.
One time in the 1970s when Dr. Muhajir came to Japan to meet
with the N.S.A., I showed him the book I had just compiled, the
aforementioned Japan Will Turn Ablaze. Doctor was an advocate of
putting such compilations of tablets and messages together, and I
thought it would please him, although when I showed it to him I said
“Well, it’s not direct teaching, is it?” He took the book and said “It’s
teaching and deepening, both.” I felt relieved and greatly encouraged
and, from that time on, never doubted that researching and compiling
books was time well spent.
Dr. Muhajir had a ﬁne sense of humor. One Saturday evening he
came to the Tokyo Bahá’í Center to give a talk. He sat down, sur-
rounded by dozens of the friends. Everyone hushed up. Doctor was
quiet a few moments, with a somber expression on his face, looked like
he was about to start speaking, but hesitated—you could hear a pin
drop, everyone waiting in anticipation—seemed again like he was
about to say something, but paused, then with perfect vaudeville timing

turned to me, smiled, and said “What shall I say?” Everyone burst out
laughing. Doctor always had time for a joke and a laugh. In fact, he
usually had a soft smile on his face, even when he was very serious.
Dr. Muhajir had a sharp, high-speed mind and one effect was he
often changed it. Doctor would decide to go here or do this, but then
suddenly change his mind, doing that or going there instead. For
instance, he would inform us that he was arriving in Japan soon and
would be staying a couple of weeks, we would make plans and orga-
nize a schedule, and the day he arrived he would tell us he was leaving
Japan the coming weekend. This, frankly, frustrated some people, but
not me. After all, he was the Hand of the Cause and if he changed his
mind it must be for a good reason. Sometimes Doctor would be dis-
turbed that he didn’t know exactly what to do, so he would do some-
thing, anything, then decide what else to do on the ﬂy—the one thing
he would not do is stay still. He said he had only one pace—fast—and
only one direction—forward. If he could not move forward right away
he would leave and go some place else where he could. If he was left
alone, if he ever found himself on his own, in a particular country, he
would leave immediately for another country—he was not going to
twiddle his thumbs in a hotel room. He told me he did not go to one of
the Asian countries for several years because one of the N.S.A. mem-
bers opposed mass-teaching. He felt he could not do anything there.
I remember one time Dr. Muhajir saying that we cannot be
certain of our fate—“none knoweth what his own end shall be”—nor
evaluate our own doings, the merit of our lives, nor know for certain if
what befalls us in the course of our lives is ultimately good or not.
Given these built-in uncertainties, there is only one way to maintain
stability, and that is by teaching the Faith. He said on another occasion
that if you are thinking about a course of action, pray for guidance and
look for doors to open, but if doors do not open, do not try to force
them open, but ﬁnd another course of action. If you act for the Faith
and what you have tried does not work, do not be disheartened—
something greater will happen. Also, be independent of all things, by
which I believe Doctor was speaking of detachment. He further said
we must always fulﬁll our responsibility to others: the pioneers have to
shine the Light for the guidance of seekers in the native or local popula-

tion, and the pioneers and native Bahá’ís together must give society the
opportunity to hear of the Faith, to see the Light. Doctor said the basic
responsibility of the Bahá’ís was giving the Message; whether the
Message was accepted or not was the responsibility of the recipient.
Doctor could be blunt: he said Northeast Asia was a slow-growth
region, and in the case of Japan, considering that the Guardian said the
Japanese people have great capacity, maybe the Bahá’ís, particularly
the pioneers, needed to work harder.[74;222]
Dr. Muhajir often spoke of ceaseless effort for the Faith, and he
said our model for ceaseless action should be Martha Root. Also,
believers should get together regularly to read the Writings, not just at
Feasts (this is done now with prayer meetings), because continual
prayer and ceaseless activity are complementary. About the Hands of
the Cause, Doctor said they had love and praise lavished on them and
they had to guard against any trace of egotism. With regard to the
Japanese nation he said that they are spiritually minded and that the
Bahá’ís must never forget it, which I think meant that we should
always be aware of the capacity of the seeker. Doctor said service to
the Faith will never come without sacriﬁce, and it is always a question
of the kind or amount of sacriﬁce. That reminds me of Rúḥíyyih
Khánum once saying that Shoghi Effendi used to speak of martyrs and
others who had given everything for the Faith and remark that there is
no comparison between total sacriﬁce and anything less than total. And
that in turn reminds me of what I heard one of the Bahá’í friends say,
that you can see partial sacriﬁce and total sacriﬁce on display at the
supermarket in the dairy and meat sections respectively.
As mentioned previously my husband left Japan permanently in
1974, followed by my kids who went off to pursue university degrees,
and the following few years were the loneliest of my life. The next time
Dr. Muhajir visited Tokyo I desperately wanted to talk to him and gain
some wisdom and inspiration. Several Bahá’ís met him at the airport
and my car was full of people. I thought disappointedly that I would
not be able to talk to him privately, but then one person after another
said “Let me off at the next light” etc., until I was alone with Doctor,
and could bring up my personal situation. He helped me to see the
positives, urging me to make the most of the time and freedom I had,

not to feel so anxious or sad, adding that he thought my situation was
the result of the Will of God. He very kindly praised my work for the
Faith, said I had more service to render, and said I must never feel
disappointed by my efforts or disturbed about my situation. I was
greatly heartened by that conversation with Dr. Muhajir and felt I could
better cope with my situation.
Parenthetically, Dr. Muhajir’s counsel reminds me of what Dr.
Iraj Ayman, a member then of the Asian Board of Counsellors, told me
at the International Convention in 1978. He also said God had given
me freedom and time to do what I wanted, and to use it for the Faith in
Japan. He further said that rather than get in a depressed state from tests
and problems and then try to pray his or her way out of that state, a
person should pray regularly so as to avoid that state and to be shown
the way to serve the Faith. Dr. Ayman advised me to stay busy with
projects for the Faith, that this would be a remedy for the emotional
doldrums. He was another true friend who encouraged me.
Dr. Muhajir always seemed “charged”, like some power was
constantly driving him. Once when I was in Manila with Hand of the
Cause A.Q. Faizi, Doctor joined us, and one morning we were sitting
in the hotel coffee-shop chatting before going out for the day. Doctor
took off his Bahá’í ring, put it on the table in front of him, and just
stared at it. It seemed to me he was re-charging his spiritual batteries.
Someone else told me of Doctor doing this; I think it was Jack Davis,
long-time pioneer in the Philippines, whom Doctor inspired in his
mass-teaching efforts. Dr. Muhajir, like the other Hands, seemed at
times a creature of another dimension. I do not think the rest of us could
ever properly appraise or understand him in this plane. Maybe—I hope
—in the next world I will be given a glimpse of his true station.
One of the last times Dr. Muhajir visited Japan, 1977 or maybe
’78, he was not scheduled to stop in Tokyo but did so and spoke at the
Bahá’í Center. That was the last occasion I saw him. Doctor advised
me to travel around Japan and teach women. He said women teaching
women was important. I recall saying “But what about my job, my
income?” He just smiled, but not long after that my newspaper job
ended, and I did just what the Doctor prescribed: full-time teaching
around Japan for a year.

In late December 1979 Dr. Muhajir passed away suddenly in
Ecuador, another of the dozens and dozens of countries constituting his
ﬁeld of service. I was in California visiting my mother when I heard of
his passing. I phoned his wife Iran to offer my condolences, and I
remember her saying “It was too soon.”
Hand of the Cause Enoch Olinga
Enoch Olinga visited Japan once, in December 1970. The whole
National Spiritual Assembly went to the airport to welcome him. We
made a semi-circle around him, and he greeted each member with a
bear hug. As I was the only woman on the Assembly I stayed back
thinking he would not greet me in the same manner, but to my surprise
I received the same strong, warm hug that the others did.
Mr. Olinga met with the National Assembly and visited several
cities. He felt unwell but he did not let that stop him in Japan, although
he was unable to proceed to Hong Kong as scheduled after Japan. A
few weeks later I saw him at the International Conference in Singapore,
where he was representing the Universal House of Justice, and he
seemed to have recovered fully. He was a commanding presence in any
situation. I will never forget him striding down the main aisle of the
conference hall, which was packed with Bahá’ís standing and applaud-
ing. Several people including myself just happened to be in the en-
trance of the hall at the time he ﬁrst came in. He went around greeting
everyone, shaking hands, speaking brieﬂy to each person. When he
came to me he took my hand and quietly said “Strong Barbara”, a few
other very kind words, then went on to the next person.[75;222]
Iran Furutan Muhajir in her biography of her husband says that
Enoch Olinga once told Dr. Muhajir of a dream he had in which the
two Hands were together high up somewhere gazing on the earth in
turmoil, thankful they were not stuck down there.[76;224] Iran writes
that when Enoch Olinga was taken to the Kingdom in September 1979,
a grief-stricken Dr. Muhajir told her he felt he would soon join his good
friend—a few months later, he did.
Before he spoke Enoch Olinga would always ask his audience
“Are you happy?” his face beaming. That smile is in my mind’s eye.

Hand of the Cause Abul-Qasim Faizi

Mr. Faizi visited Japan several times. On a visit in 1967, Dr.
Muhajir had cabled us in advance to arrange press interviews, and two
were held, including one at International House in Tokyo, at which
Bernard Leach introduced the journalists to Mr. Faizi.
When Mr. Faizi came to Tokyo in January 1969, to my surprise
he asked me to accompany him and Counsellor Ruhi Momtazi to Hong
Kong and Manila. I took off from work and happily went to Hong
Kong, Macau, and Manila. Hong Kong and Macau were under our
N.S.A. and I was the secretary so it was a good opportunity to talk to
the Bahá’ís there. Mr. Faizi had a great love for pioneers. Earlier in his
life he and his wife Gloria had pioneered to Arabic-speaking lands of
the Persian Gulf, and he knew pioneering had hardships. He told me
that his trip to Manila was prompted by the arrival of a number of
Iranian students who were pioneering there while they obtained de-
grees from university.[77;224] Mr. Faizi said he wanted to embrace the
students on behalf of their parents, and when he next went to Iran he
would embrace the parents on behalf of the students.
Mr. Faizi’s profound insights and his unique deepenings were
fascinating. His talks were generally the most “intellectual” of those I
heard Hands of the Cause give, and it could be difﬁcult recalling or
writing down everything he said. I did manage to take some notes of a
couple of talks, including one in Manila, Mr. Faizi gave. Speaking of
the divine revelation, Mr. Faizi said that each Revelation brought by a
Manifestation does three things: puts fully in context and fulﬁlls the
previous Revelation, reveals what is necessary for the current age, and
prepares the way for the next Revelation. In each Book brought by a
Manifestation, grace, guidance, knowledge, and certitude are mysteri-
ously deposited and must be mined by each individual believer through
study of the Word, prayer, and meditation. The manifestation of the
divine occurs at three levels: in all the worlds of God’s creation, i.e.,
throughout existence; in a human being speciﬁcally, as the human is a
symbol of God, made in His image; in time, or history, i.e., roughly
once every 1,000 years on the earth. Also, there are three things that
can never be fully understood about life: the nature of life after death,
i.e., the afterlife; the meaning of suffering in this world, i.e., theodicy;

and the demarcation between God’s Will and the human will. Concern-
ing the last point Mr. Faizi added that prayer would bring a believer
closer to God’s Will. If you feel you are leaning toward your own will,
to what you desire or wish for yourself, prayer will put you right and
purge yourself of ego. He further said that the laws of the Faith, such as
obligatory prayer and the Fast, are a private matter, between
Bahá’u’lláh and each believer, and are an individual responsibility, but
the social principles, such as the oneness of humanity and the equality
of the sexes, are a collective matter and are the responsibility of society
as a whole. One of the things Mr. Faizi said to me that made a lasting
impression is that he loves children because they contain the secrets of
the universe.[78;224]
Mr. Faizi and I corresponded for a number of years. His letters
are my treasures. In one letter he wrote “God is pleased with you!”
(The bounties of being a pioneer never cease!) Actually Mr. Faizi once
said that excessive praise is not good and that praise should be in the
form of encouragement in the station of servitude. By mentioning God
in the above letter I believe he was emphasizing my servitude, and it is
something I have never forgotten.
I made my ﬁrst personal pilgrimage in 1975. My marriage had
broken up and I realized that it was an end to that era for me. I had
requested a pilgrimage in order to go to the Shrines to pray for guid-
ance and help in coping. In Haifa, Mr. Faizi had just returned from a
visit to Bahá’í communities overseas and I recall he was very tired. He
said he had met so many friends that it seemed person after person was
passing in front of him in a never-ending stream. I am not surprised
because everyone who knew Mr. Faizi wanted to spend all the time
possible with him. Mr. Faizi invited me to his residence for tea. I
mentioned my personal situation to him and, to my embarrassment, I
started to cry. We talked at length, and that conversation was an impor-
tant step toward being reconciled to the changes in my personal life.
I should say that I will always appreciate the helpful advice and
warm encouragement about my personal situation that I received from
‘Amatu’l-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum, Mr. Faizi, Dr. Muhajir, Counsellor
Iraj Ayman, and also Counsellor Shirin Fozdar. It was difﬁcult for me
to talk about private matters with fellow Bahá’ís in Japan, and in the

mid to late 1970s it was these friends who lifted my spirits, and I will
forever be grateful for their kindness. I think this is one way among so
many that the Hands and other great Bahá’ís served the Faith: they lent
a personal sympathetic ear when the rest of us needed it. I know of
other Bahá’ís whose lives were sustained by personal heart-to-heart
talks with these great friends. It could not have been easy for these
friends to listen to others’ personal problems, but they never failed to do
so and to offer words of wisdom.
Hand of the Cause Collis Featherstone
Collis Featherstone’s ﬁrst visit to Japan was for our Convention
in 1965. He said he was very happy to come to Japan, as his native
Australia and Japan were at opposite ends of the spiritual axis of which
the Guardian had written. Collis was the speaker at a public meeting
held during that Convention. He was a dynamic and forceful speaker,
and the interpreters had a hard time keeping up with his pace and his
Aussie accent. Collis visited Japan several times, at ﬁrst without his
wife Madge, as she still had children at home, but in the later years she
accompanied him. Madge told me Collis could never say “No” to the
friends if left to himself and would become exhausted, and so in the
later years she tried to preserve his energy and health by better manag-
ing his schedule. I ﬁrst met Madge at the Singapore Conference, late
December 1969 to early January ’70. She was just like her husband—
wonderfully easy to know.
Collis was very interested in the story of how my grandmother
Mary and mother Helen became Bahá’ís, through John Henry Hyde
Dunn and Clara Davis Dunn in California. Later the Dunns pioneered
to Australia, becoming the spiritual parents of that community—Mother
and Father Dunn—and were appointed Hand of the Cause. At one time
Collis was Mother Dunn’s Auxiliary Board member. He asked me to
write up my grandmother’s story and send it to him. This is how I
became interested in getting that story. The next time I visited my
mother in California I made a tape-recording of her telling the story,
and that recording is the basis of the section about my grandmother
Mary Burland earlier in this memoir.
In the late ’70s Collis gave us a design for a proclamation kit—it

was quite comprehensive with several sheets in it regarding Bahá’í
history in general and in Japan, principles etc. with illustrations. We
translated it into Japanese and gave out hundreds to the media and
professional people.
The Featherstones came to my house for dinner once in the early
’70s. Husband Sandy liked them very much. Sandy met several Hands
of the Cause, seemed to like them all, and it seemed mutual. I would
like to think he understood what a bounty it was.
Other Hands of the Cause
Ali-Akbar Furutan has visited Japan four times. He represented
the Universal House of Justice at the Sapporo International Conference
in Hokkaido in 1971. On a later visit I remember going to his hotel
with other N.S.A. members; by coincidence the well-known jazz
musician and Bahá’í, Dizzy Gillespie, was staying there too, and Mr.
Furutan introduced us all to Dizzy. Mr. Furutan is absolutely the best
storyteller I have ever heard among Bahá’ís, or anyone else for that
matter. (There is no way I can do justice to any of those stories, so I
won’t try here.) He gave ﬁne talks about various aspects of the Faith,
and one that has stuck in my mind is when he compared the Manifesta-
tion of God to a radio: the Manifestation receives signals from God and
broadcasts them to the world, and the Mind of the Manifestation
functions to amplify the signal.
Paul Haney came to Asia to visit some other countries and
stopped over in Japan for a day or two in 1967. He met with the
N.S.A. and also with Agnes Alexander, who had been in the hospital
for nearly two years. He was a very cultured gentleman. I was in touch
with him later concerning some archive matters regarding Agnes
Alexander.
John Robarts visited Japan in 1968. He was sent by the Universal
House of Justice to assist in organizing the Asian Board of Counsellors.
I remember I called Mr. Robarts at his hotel and said I would come by
with some mail for him that had accumulated at the Bahá’í Center. He
quickly said not to bother, he was tired and did not wish to see anyone
for a while. I assumed that he was a bit wary, perhaps because the
friends in other countries tended to impose on him, even when he was

tired and wished for privacy. Not in Japan. I said I would leave the mail
at the hotel front desk and to check there when he felt up to it. Then he
said, well, why not call him from the lobby when I arrived. I did so,
and we ended up having a very nice chat about Japan, Africa, where he
pioneered, and his native Canada. I remember Mr. Robarts saying in a
talk that faults or vices such as anger, jealousy, and greed can cling to
us, and the only way to be rid of them is to beseech the Holy Spirit for
assistance.
Bill Sears was assigned by the Universal House of Justice to
represent it at the ﬁrst National Convention of the Bahá’ís of Japan, in
1974. The friends were taken with Bill and his wife Marguerite, their
love and humor. We were worried about translation, given Bill’s rapid-
ﬁre way of speaking and jokes, but no one had any trouble understand-
ing him and there was plenty of laughter and insight.
Universal House of Justice members
The ﬁrst was Glenford Mitchell, in 1970, but at that time he was
not a member of the Universal House of Justice, rather secretary of the
National Spiritual Assembly of the United States. He was a delegate to
a religious conference in Kyoto. I recall taking him to dinner at the U.S.
military’s Sanno Hotel in Tokyo. Also Dr. Toshio Suzuki invited him
to dinner; as they were both secretaries of their N.S.A.s they had much
to talk about.
Hushmand Fatheazam visited Japan twice, once in 1977 and
again in 1987. His ﬁrst visit was the ﬁrst by a member of the Universal
House of Justice. Each member of the House of Justice had an area of
the world for which he was responsible, and Mr. Fatheazam’s included
Japan. He was concerned that the Faith was progressing very slowly in
Japan. We in Japan knew we were not matching the expectations of the
House. Although it was a privilege to welcome Mr. Fatheazam, we
were chastened by the thought that we should do better. During his ﬁrst
visit I remember several of us walking down the Ginza, the glitziest
shopping street in Tokyo, with Mr. Fatheazam taking in everything. I
said to myself “He is one of the most important persons in the world,
and here he is with us wandering down the Ginza like any tourist,
chatting about Tokyo and whatnot.” It was, actually, embarrassing in a

sense: after all, it was precisely because the Faith was in such an
obscure state in Japan that it was possible for a House of Justice mem-
ber to walk down High Street unrecognized—or to put it another way,
you hoped the Faith would progress to the point that it would be
impossible for a House of Justice member (an Assembly member too,
for that matter) to walk down High Street without being recognized.
During the 1977 visit Mr. Fatheazam stated that the reason he
was here in Japan was to draw our attention to the importance of our
area of the globe. He said for him personally the visit was important
because it was to a country of fellow Asians, a country that as a child
he had wished to visit as it was a model of progress. He said when he
was older, and read what ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi said about
Japan, he then wished to visit to not only view its material progress but
to sense for himself its capacity for spiritual progress. He noted the
spiritual axis the Guardian had described, and said both poles of the
axis—which is to say Japan and the Antipodes—had to be strong in
order for the axis to serve any purpose. He was happy to see that the
majority of the Japan N.S.A. members were Japanese, adding that an
Assembly in its make-up should ideally reﬂect its community. Speaking
of the relationship between pioneers and native or local believers, he
said the pioneers were like mothers in that they give birth to spiritual
children and provide nourishment and guidance, but the children must
eventually mature and become independent and responsible.
I recall that at Mr. Fatheazam’s meeting with the N.S.A. one of
the Japanese members brought up the concept of God, saying that the
Bahá’í concept did not exist among the Japanese. Mr. Fatheazam
responded that no one can have any meaningful concept of God—the
Writings make clear that we cannot know or conceive of God directly.
We should focus our attention on the Manifestation and through Him
draw near to God. Another thing I remember Mr. Fatheazam stressing
is the power of the Word of God. He said when he was a pioneer in
India, the N.S.A. there decided to send excerpts from the Writings for
every day of the year to each believer in the community, and this
seemed to energize the community, leading to an increase in enroll-
ments. Translation of literature was crucial, Mr. Fatheazam said, as
otherwise the believers did not have access to the Word. At a talk at the

Bahá’í Center Mr. Fatheazam made a simple suggestion: if you are not
already doing so, please talk about the Faith to at least one non-Bahá’í
person every week. This should not be so difﬁcult; if it is, it probably
means that you are too timid or do not get out enough, and yet if you
follow this suggestion, and pray to Bahá’u’lláh to assist you, it can
transform your life and your listener’s life. To a woman who was a
housewife busy with kids who asked him how she could serve the
Faith when she was tied to the home, Mr. Fatheazam said to raise her
children as Bahá’ís—there was no service of any kind more important
for the Faith. One person lamented that there was much about the Faith
he did not understand, and Mr. Fatheazam said that while there are
things that are difﬁcult, in some cases maybe impossible, to understand,
understanding would come naturally in other cases: for instance, it is
difﬁcult for a child to understand the concept of “maturity”, but once
that child matures into an adult, it is comprehensible. Asked how to
have a relationship with the Manifestation, Mr. Fatheazam said the
number of ways to the Manifestation is equal to the number of people
in the world: everyone’s relationship with the Manifestation is unique.
During the elections of the Universal House of Justice in Haifa
the Fatheazams always invited the Japanese delegation to dinner at their
home. Mr. Fatheazam encouraged me to write the histories. At one of
those dinners he told me I had done a service for the Faith compiling
Japan Will Turn Ablaze. He said the tablets and letters found in Japan
Will Turn Ablaze should be the Japan community’s guide and that they
had been his guide. I was pleased to hear that the book had been a
service, and hoped that it was true. Through the many years I have
learned to take nothing for granted; we never know how our service,
our lives, will be accepted by Bahá’u’lláh and what the end will be.
Dr. Peter Khan also visited Japan, in the ’90s, Japan being in his
area of responsibility. I was not serving on the N.S.A. and did not have
the privilege of attending his meetings with the Assembly. If I am any
judge, there are not many people in the world more capable than Peter,
or his wife Janet—I think there are many in Haifa, the U.S., where he
lived for many years, and his native Australia who would agree.
David Hofman visited Japan in 1990, two years after he complet-
ed his service as a member of the Universal House of Justice. Mr.

Hofman, accompanied by Motoko Caldwell, wife of veteran pioneer
Jenabe Caldwell[79;224], and me, called on a well-known television
announcer and commentator, Taro Kimura. The two gentlemen got
along very well, as Mr. Hofman had worked in Britain as a BBC radio
announcer many years earlier, and he and Mr. Kimura discussed the
broadcasting business as well as the Faith. Mr. Hofman and I had a
much-loved mutual acquaintance: his wife. I knew Marion Holley
Hofman from the Geyserville Bahá’í School days, and my grandmother
Mary Burland had something to do with introducing Marion’s mother
Grace Holley to the Bahá’í Faith (see earlier in this memoir). Such
relationships are common among Bahá’ís of my generation.
David and Margaret Ruhe visited Japan in 1986. When Dr. Ruhe
was secretary of the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States I
often corresponded with him as part of my duties, but I did not meet
him until 1968 at the second International Convention in Haifa. Dr.
Ruhe and I sat together during the election proceedings, and I remem-
ber saying to myself before the results were announced, “I am sitting
next to a new member of the Universal House of Justice”—and it
turned out I was. David and Margaret were so cordial whenever I saw
them through the years. When I was in Haifa for the elections they
invited me to dinner, and when they visited Japan I was happy to
welcome them at the airport on behalf of the National Spiritual Assem-
bly. I have always thought they are an example: both attractive, cul-
tured, intellectual, dedicated, and knowledgeable Bahá’ís. It seems to
me they were destined for each other, that they were a perfect ﬁt. In his
talks Dr. Ruhe showed an impressive grasp of many subjects, especial-
ly of history, and it was an education to listen to him. In 1921 ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá wrote a prayer for Margaret and her sister, which Margaret once
wrote out for me. The prayer says that the sisters “may . . . attain to the
utmost luster and luminosity.” Margaret and David Ruhe both have a
way of illuminating the space around them.[80;224]
Yankee Leong
I can’t remember when I ﬁrst met Yankee Leong—it was some
time back in the 1960s. There was something so pure-hearted about this
man. His goodness was infectious. Yankee Leong was the ﬁrst Bahá’í

in Malaysia. He was born in Malaysia (then the British colony of
Malaya) of Chinese ancestry. He was told about the Faith by Shirin
Fozdar—there was an amazing woman!—in the late 1940s and early
’50s, and he attended a World Federalist Conference in Hiroshima in
1952 and happened to sit next to Agnes Alexander. How could he not
become a Bahá’í?!
Yankee Leong visited Japan on several occasions, and I would
spend much time with him whenever he was here—my bounty. Once
in Hong Kong we were on a teaching team which went into the New
Territories. We got together in Singapore in January 1971 at the Bahá’í
Center during the International Conference. We sat together at the
Canberra Conference in Australia in 1982. And in Japan, I remember
picking him up at the airport when someone put him on the wrong
ﬂight from Taiwan and it arrived in Tokyo instead of Osaka. Yankee
and Leong Tat Chee, another great Malaysian Bahá’í, traveled through
Asian countries in the 1960s to teach the Chinese: Hong Kong, Macau,
Taiwan, the Philippines. Malaysia formed its ﬁrst N.S.A. in 1964 and,
of course, Yankee was elected to that body. He visited Japan in the
’70s and ’80s in his capacity as member of the Asian Board of Coun-
sellors.
Yankee’s grandson Henry Ong wrote a book entitled Uncle
Yankee and Yankee presented me a copy, writing the following on the
title page:
Dearly Beloved Barbara,
Humbly supplicating Bahá’u’lláh to shower His choicest
bounty and blessing and conﬁrm all your work for God’s
Cause in Japan, at all times. Our days on earth will quick-
ly pass by. The day will come when Bahá’u’lláh will
welcome us to His eternal home; let us serve His Cause to
the last ounce of our strength, the last day of our lives.
Please pray, and inspire our dear Japanese Bahá’ís to arise
and serve, for time is short.
It was a privilege to have known Yankee Leong.

The Katirais, Moghbels, and Momtazis
They were not visitors to Japan, rather residents, and they have
been extraordinary in their commitment to service in this country. They
are my fellow—shall I say—“Crusaders”, i.e., pioneers who answered
the call of the Guardian during the ﬁrst Global Crusade: Abbas and
Rizvaniyyih Katirai, Ataullah and Mahin Moghbel, and Ruhollah and
Puran Momtazi, together with Ruhi’s parents Nureddin and Behjat.
Iran, the Cradle of the Faith, gave forth many such devoted souls, who
spread around the world in service to the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh. These
three families settled in the Kansai region, and have rendered all kinds
of service to the Faith over the years, ranging from distinguished
membership in the appointive and elective branches of the Administra-
tive Order to generous donations of funds and property to the Faith.
They were not, of course, the only Iranian pioneers to come to Japan,
nor was I the only American, but we were unique in that we came
during the Ten-Year Crusade and never left.
The families suffered hardships in the early years, and had to
struggle to build their Bahá’í communities and their businesses, but
accomplished both very successfully. They were always hospitable to
me when I visited Kansai for the annual Bahá’í Summer School and on
other occasions, and to daughter Sandra when she lived in the area in
the early 1970s while teaching at the Canadian Academy in Kobe; son
Sheridan married one of the Momtazi daughters, Laily. The families
have great stories to tell of their lives in Iran before pioneering and of
their nearly 50 years in Japan. I do hope they will write down their
experiences.
Final chapter
It is one of the sadnesses of life—the death of one’s parents. It is
expected, of course, but it does not lessen the pain caused by the
knowledge that one will never see them again, in this life.
In 1975 I visited my parents, Helen and Harry, in Berkeley,
California. I had two weeks of leave from my job in Tokyo. Harry’s
eyesight was steadily deteriorating, and for a man who had spent so
much of his life in his pastimes of reading history and genealogical

research, it was a heavy blow. When I left Berkeley to return to Japan,
I took a taxi from their apartment down to the waterfront, which had
helicopter service to San Francisco Airport. Helen and Harry stood on
their second-ﬂoor balcony to see me off as I got into the taxi. I remem-
ber looking up and saying to myself “I’ll never see Dad again.” Harry
passed away the following February, just a few days before his 91st
birthday, from cancer. I have a letter he wrote at about the time he
checked in to the hospital, and he was as he always was, succinct and
stolid. He spent two weeks in the hospital before slipping away into the
next life. I saw a dream of Harry not long ago. He was wearing his
usual brown suit, walking slightly hunched, with a thoughtful expres-
sion on his face—he looked exactly as I remembered him. He didn’t
say anything, but he didn’t have to. The dream was reassuring in its
simplicity.
Helen moved into a comfortable retirement home in Berkeley,
where I visited her a few times. In April 1982 I got a telephone call
from my brother Ed. I knew Helen was in hospital being treated for
cancer. Ed said she was sinking and if I wanted to see her a last time I
should come as soon as possible. I was there in a couple of days and
stayed two weeks, at the home of my sister Margaret in Alameda.
When I arrived Helen was in the hospice next to the hospital. She was
taking oral drugs for pain and was quite lucid, but as the days pro-
gressed she had injections for pain and ﬁnally fell into a coma. A week
and a half after I arrived Helen passed away. Just after she departed
Margaret and I were saying prayers in her room, and there was a
distinct aroma of attar of roses. The room had no ﬂowers, perfume
bottles, or ﬂasks of attar—the aroma could not have had a material
origin.
Recently I was reading through some of the letters Helen wrote
to me. In one dated December 27, 1981 she wrote “You speak of your
28 years in Japan . . . I have missed you every day of that time so it has
been my sacriﬁce, too.” When I compiled Traces That Remain I
dedicated the book to my grandmother Mary and Helen. The reason is
that ‘Abdu’l-Bahá stated good deeds done in a departed person’s name
would redound to the beneﬁt of that person’s soul in the next life. (I am
assuming the book was a good deed.) Daughter Sandra and I partly

deputized a pioneer in Sakhalin Island, Russia for two years in the
names of my father and my sister’s husband, Albert Cavanaugh, neither
of whom was a Bahá’í. That pioneer, Beth McKenty—a dear friend, a
former Auxiliary Board member in the U.S., a former pioneer in Japan
and China, and currently a pioneer in the far north of her native Canada
[81;224]—had their photos with her and regularly prayed for them. The
departed seem closer if we can offer service in their names.
Rúḥíyyih Khánum said some wonderful things that I have often
thought about. She said that in the next life we would “dance with joy”
at the reunion with loved ones. She also said that sometimes when she
was in difﬁculty she would call on her mother in the next world for
help. Of course this was no substitute for calling on the Central Figures,
but she said she thought there was no good reason not to ask her
mother to intercede. Rúḥíyyih Khánum further said that according to
the Writings intercession is mutual: we in this world can intercede in
behalf of departed loved ones, praying for the progress of their souls
through the other worlds of God.
In fact, we are advised to intercede speciﬁcally for our parents by
the Manifestation Himself: the Báb states
It is seemly that the servant should, after each prayer,
supplicate God to bestow mercy and forgiveness upon his
parents. . . . Blessed is he who remembereth his parents
when communing with God. . . .
As if with this precept in mind, Bahá’u’lláh has revealed a prayer:
O God, my God! I implore Thee by the blood of Thy true
lovers, who were so enraptured by Thy sweet utterance
that they hastened unto the Pinnacle of Glory, the site of
the most glorious martyrdom, and I beseech Thee by the
mysteries which lie enshrined in Thy knowledge and by
the pearls that are treasured in the ocean of Thy bounty, to
grant forgiveness unto me and unto my father and my
mother. . . .
The Báb, too, has linked one’s own divine forgiveness and that of
one’s parents:

. . . I beg of Thee to wash away our sins as beﬁtteth Thy
Lordship, and to forgive me, my parents, and those who in
Thy estimation have entered the abode of Thy love . . .
That you can implore God by the divine mysteries and bounties and by
the blood of His true lovers makes you realize what an extraordinary
privilege intercessory prayer is. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá says “This is one of the
inﬁnite bestowals of this Dispensation.”[82;225]
When I was young or comparatively young I never thought about
growing old. As I have done so, my perspective on life has changed,
and in contemplative mode I have found myself thinking not so much
about my remaining time here as about an eternity to be spent else-
where. Perhaps it is natural for one’s thoughts to drift to the next life,
away from the unpleasant realities of old age in this life. Existence in
the other worlds of God, according to the Writings, can be rewarding,
depending on how one has lived one’s life here, and depending on
God’s mercy. I would very much like to meet some of my recent
ancestors whom I mention earlier in this memoir, and by God’s grace I
hope to do so. Meanwhile, even as I look forward to the end of this life
journey and the beginning of the next with joyful anticipation, I have
decided to live my remaining time here fully, to detach myself from
trivial cares, to be less concerned about the unknown. Because I say it
not infrequently, I have grown fond of the short prayer in the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas which we can recite when natural events that cause fear occur:
Dominion is God’s, the Lord of the seen and the unseen,
the Lord of creation.
When we have an earthquake or typhoon in Tokyo, which is fairly
often, I recite the prayer and forget the trouble. What will be, will be.
“Japan will turn ablaze!” That is ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s prophecy of the
spiritual future of Japan. I suppose the purpose of my life as a pioneer is
to have helped fan the Fire of God. I can only hope that I have done
what God willed to be my share, and I trust that the Fire in Japan and in
other countries will grow into a raging blaze that sweeps the planet.

Photographs


Circa 1939, at the Geyserville Bahá’í Summer School in California. On
the left, my mother Helen Rutledge (left) and my grandmother Mary
Burland, On the right, in front of the Bosch residence, me (right), John
Bosch next to me, the artist Mark Tobey next to him; regrettably I can’t
identify the lady.

1944. With my husband, Charles
A. “Sandy” Sims, who had been
born in Japan to parents who
were attached to the Methodist
Mission in Kobe. This photo was
taken during the Second World
War, when Sandy visited Califor-
nia on leave from the war front in
the Paciﬁc, where he served on
U.S. Navy aircraft carriers as a
radio intelligence ofﬁcer, putting
his Japanese-language skills to
use.

1954. The L.S.A. of Tokyo. Seated: Kotoko Mochizuki, me (sec’y),
Yuriko Furukawa, and Fusae Ishige (rec. sec’y). Standing: Hiroyasu
Takano  (vice-chair),  Y. A. Rafaat,  Tameo  Hongo  (chairman),  Goro
Horioka (treas.), Yuzo Yamaguchi. Ms. Furukawa (née Mochizuki)
was the ﬁrst Japanese woman to become a Bahá’í. She translated the
Hidden Words into Japanese.

1955. The Nikko Conference, or more formally the Asian Regional
Teaching Conference. It was sponsored by the N.S.A. of the U.S. and
organized by the Tokyo L.S.A. Half of all Japanese Bahá’ís attended,
as did all of the pioneers in Japan and several Bahá’ís from other
countries. Hand of the Cause Mr. Khadem (in the middle) was the
representative of the Guardian. To the viewer’s right of Mr. Khadem is
Agnes Alexander and to the viewer’s left of him is Javidukht Khadem;
immediately in front of Mr. Khadem, holding the Greatest Name, is
Saichiro Fujita. The conference was a success and served as an impetus
for the progress of the Faith in Northeast Asia.

1957. The ﬁrst National (sometimes called Regional) Spiritual Assem-
bly of North East Asia. In the front, at left, Charlotte Linfoot, represent-
ing the U.S. N.S.A., Hand of the Cause Jalal Khazeh, representing the
Guardian, and Assembly members Agnes Alexander (who had been
appointed Hand of the Cause a month earlier) and me (recording
secretary).
Standing:
Assembly
members
Nureddin
Momtazi
(treasurer), William Maxwell (chairman, pioneering in Korea), Michi-
toshi Zenimoto, Hiroyasu Takano (vice-chairman, the only Japanese
Bahá’í other than Saichiro Fujita to meet the Guardian), Philip
Marangella, Y.A. Rafaat (secretary), and Ataullah Moghbel. A letter
written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi stated that the Guardian was “very
happy to see that your Assembly has represented on it members of the
three great races of mankind, a living demonstration of the fundamental
teaching of our Holy Faith.”

Late 1950s. The old Bahá’í Center in Tokyo.
It had been ﬁxed up by Larry Hamilton, at-
tached to the U.S. Armed Forces, who lived
there with wife Virginia for a time. We were
all fond of the ramshackle structure, which
was replaced by a multi-story building in the
early 1980s.

Late 1950s. Two of my hobbies at the time. I learned to play the koto;
here I am in the living room of our Japanese-style house in Meguro,
Tokyo. For exercise I practiced aikido. I took part in an exhibition and
tossed my instructor, with his considerable cooperation. The aikido hall
was and still is located near the Bahá’í Center. My hobbies got me an
appearance on the television program Watashi no Himitsu (lit. “My
Secret”)—a Japanese version of the old U.S. show “What’s My
Line?”—and I managed to stump the panel, after which I gave a
demonstration.

1958. With my son Sheridan near our house
in Meguro Ward, Tokyo.

1961. Mamie Seto, at the right, came to Japan to visit her husband
Tony’s grave at the Yokohama Foreigners’ Cemetery. She was accom-
panied by Phil Marangella, Akiko Schreiber, whose husband Eugene
took the photo, and me. The Setos pioneered from the U.S. to Hong
Kong at the outset of the Ten-Year Plan. They came to Japan to attend
the ﬁrst North East Asia Convention in 1957, and Tony passed away
suddenly at the airport on the return to Hong Kong. He was the ﬁrst
Chinese-American Bahá’í and Mamie a former member of the U.S.
National Spiritual Assembly.

1962. I sometimes worked as a
movie extra at Toho Studios. Our
house in the Tokyo suburb of
Seijo was close to the Toho lot. It
was fun and provided me with
extra funds. Sandy, Sandra, and
Sheridan also got movie and TV
parts over the years. Here I am
with actor Akira Takarada on a
set. He is known to Western ﬁlm
fans for his roles in the “Godzilla”
movies.

1963. When I stopped in India on
my way to the ﬁrst International
Convention in the Holy Land, the
N.S.A. secretary, Iranian pioneer
Hushmand Fatheazam, kindly
showed me the site of the future
House of Worship, near New
Delhi. I took this photo at the site,
at that time a barren plain. A few
days later Mr. Fatheazam was
elected to the Universal House of
Justice.

1963. At the London Congress. This photo was taken in Albert Hall
between sessions. Kim Chang-zin, the ﬁrst Korean Bahá’í, is in the
middle. He was invited by the N.S.A. of North East Asia to attend the
Congress. At that time Korea was under the jurisdiction of that Assem-
bly. From the left, the others are Michitoshi Zenimoto (later to be
appointed Counsellor), Dr. Ikuo Mizuno (a physician who translated
the Kitáb-i-Íqán from English into Japanese), Masazo Odani, and me,
all Assembly members. We had just come from the ﬁrst International
Convention in Haifa. It was almost too much for me to absorb—ﬁrst
Haifa, then London.

1964. Meeting a family in an Ainu
village in the northernmost main island
of Hokkaido. I went on a teaching trip
with Mr. G.V. Tehrani, an Iranian pio-
neer in Hokkaido, and a young
Japanese believer, Shozo Inoue. Sev-
eral persons signed enrollment cards,
but we did not have the resources to
deepen them except to send literature.
Many years later some Bahá’ís met
one of the families, who said they al-
ways considered themselves to be
Bahá’ís, although isolated.


.
1964. The ﬁrst teaching conference in Hokkaido. About 60 persons
attended. This shows some of the attendees in front of a traditional
Ainu house. Hand of the Cause Agnes Alexander is seated holding the
Greatest Name. Famed potter Bernard Leach is in the last row, behind
Ms. Alexander.

1966. Hand of the Cause Tarazullah Samandari with members of the
Spiritual Assembly of North East Asia, taken during his visit to Japan.
Sitting: me, Dr. Ikuo Mizuno, Mr. Samandari, Philip Marangella,
Standing, from left: Ruhollah Momtazi (Auxiliary Board member, two
years later to be appointed Counsellor), Hiroshi Yamazaki (Assembly
chairman), Abbas Katirai (later to be appointed Counsellor and, togeth-
er with his wife Rizvaniyyih, named Knight of Bahá’u’lláh for
Sakhalin Island, Russia), Ataullah Moghbel (treasurer, later to manage
the Bahá’í Publishing Trust of Japan), Masazo Odani, and Hideya
Suzuki (later the ﬁrst Japanese to be appointed Counsellor).

1967. Hand of the Cause Agnes Alexander spent two years in a
hospital in Tokyo with a broken hip, sustained in a fall. The Bahá’ís
often visited her. From the left: Yoshio Tanaka, me, Yuriko Furukawa,
unrecognized, Chiyo Suzuki, obscured, Emmanuel “Manny” Rock (a
British believer who embraced the Faith in the South Paciﬁc in the
1950s), Ruth Walbridge (recruited by Hand of the Cause Dr. Muhajir
from her pioneer post in the Philippines to be Ms. Alexander’s private
nurse), Jack Davis (a pioneer in the Philippines), Hiroshi Yamazaki,
Toshie Yamada, Phil Marangella, and Dr. Ikuo Mizuno. Ms. Furukawa
(née Mochizuki), as mentioned previously, was the ﬁrst Japanese
woman to accept the Faith, having done so 50 years earlier. Agnes was
her teacher and they were very close.
1967. At a conference in New Delhi, India.
I enjoyed meeting Bahá’ís from various
countries at international conferences, in-
cluding these friends from Tibet.

1969. Teaching trip in the New
Territories, Hong Kong. Hand of
the Cause A.Q. Faizi has his arm
around a newly-declared Bahá’í.
1971. At the Singapore Conference. Several Bahá’ís happened to be at
the entrance of the hall when Hand of the Cause Enoch Olinga, the
representative of the Universal House of Justice, arrived. He greeted
each person in turn. Hand of the Cause Collis Featherstone is at the
right.

1975. The last photo taken of the
Rutledge family all together, in
California. Seated are Helen and
Harry. Around them are the kids,
from left, Hal, me, Edward,
Margaret, and David.

1978. Three generations together.
Little Helen was named after my
mother and is the ﬁrst of the ﬁfth
generation of Bahá’ís in the family.
With my daughter Sandra.

1978. During the International Convention.
‘Amatu’l-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum kindly
posed with me on the steps of the House of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá in Haifa.
1980. I visited the family of the
second Japanese Bahá’í, Saichiro
Fujita, in Yanai, Yamaguchi Pre-
fecture. Standing in front of the
family rice shop is his nephew,
Hideo, and Hideo’s wife. I was
looking for material about Fujita-
san’s life, but the family had few
mementos of him.

1982. The N.S.A.s of Australia and Japan met during the Canberra
Conference. Three Counsellors also attended the meeting. We dis-
cussed the “spiritual axis” between Japan and Australia, as described
by the Guardian.

1983. The International Convention. The members of the N.S.A. of
Japan were invited to tea by ‘Amatu’l-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum. Sever-
al N.S.A. members of other Asian communities appear in the photo.
The Japan Assembly members are: front row, left, Nobuko Iwakura
(later appointed Counsellor); third from left, Yuzo Yamaguchi; me;
Shigenobu Hayashi; in the back, third from left, Toshio Suzuki; fourth
from left, Hiroyasu Takano; immediately above me, slightly obscured,
Tomo Fushimi; immediately above Miss Fushimi, slightly obscured,
Ataullah Moghbel; at right, Abbas Katirai.

1990. Motoko Caldwell and I accompanied David Hofman, former
Universal House of Justice member, on a visit to the ofﬁce of a well-
known Japanese television newscaster, Taro Kimura. Motoko took this
photo and I took one of her with the two gentlemen. They discussed
the Faith and also “talked shop”—Mr. Hofman having been an an-
nouncer with the BBC in England decades earlier. Mr. Kimura spoke
English well, having been posted as a correspondent in Washington,
D.C.

1991. I have earned a living over the years teaching English-language
classes. Here I am with ﬁrst-year students at a college in Yokohama.

1999. My newlywed son
Sheridan and daughter-in-law
Laily. At the right are Laily’s
parents, Puran and Ruhollah
Momtazi. This marriage is so far
the only between children of
pioneers to Japan.

2001. Daughter Sandra and me
at grandson John’s graduation
from Maxwell International
Bahá’í School in Canada.
Granddaughter Helen, who also
attended Maxwell, is on the
right.

Appendix: 1968 International Convention photos
The photos here are a selection, chosen by the editor, from an album
Barbara Sims made of the 1968 International Convention in Haifa and
of stops in Turkey and Iran on the way home to Japan. These photos
are not a part of the original memoir. Captions are the editorʼs (Ms.
Sims does not provide captions for most of the photos in the album).
Hand of the Cause Ugo Giacherry on the left; Marion Holley Hofman
talking with Hand of the Cause Bill Sears center right, and Hand of
the Cause Collis Featherstone between them. Ms. Hofman and Ms.
Sims were friends from their youth days in California U.S.A., and
together with Mr. Sears were regulars at the Geyserville Baháʼí
School there. Ms. Simsʼ grandmother Mary “Mollie” Burland and the
Holley family were from Visalia, California, and Mary brought Isabella
Brittingham, the Baháʼí teacher and lecturer, to Visalia to speak, an
occasion that introduced the Holley family to the Faith.

Hand of the Cause Col‐
lis Featherstone, of Aus‐
tralia, with Barbara Sims
and fellow North East
Asia Spiritual Assembly
member Eugene
Schreiber. Ms. Simsʼ
family and Mr.
Featherstoneʼs national
community shared spiri‐
tual parents: Clara
Davis Dunn and John
Henry Hyde Dunn.
Precious gifts of the Cradle of the Faith to the world: Hands of the
Cause Shuʻaʻullah Alaʼi, Jalal Khazeh, Zikrullah Khadem, and Abul-
Qasim Faizi.

ʻAmatuʼl-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum with North East Asia Spiritual
Assembly members (from left) Eugene Schreiber, Abbas Katirai,
Barbara Sims, Tahereh Kazempour, Ataullah Moghbel, Philip
Marangella, and Hideya Suzuki. Rúḥíyyih Khánum is wearing a
kimono the Assembly presented her.

ʻAmatuʼl-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum and
ever-present, ever-reliable Violette Nakhjavani.
ni.
Riḍván Feast.
Riḍván Feast.
Riḍván Feast
Riḍván Feast.

Hands of the Cause John Robarts, Enoch Olinga, and Bill Sears.
These photos may not have been taken by Ms. Sims or by her
camera. They are somewhat more sharply focused than the other
photos in the album, and are posed at (unusually) close range, almost
like portraits. They may have been taken by a professional photogra‐
pher, perhaps by someone on the World Center staff, or perhaps by
Ms. Simsʼ fellow Assembly member Gene Schreiber, an avid photog‐
rapher. One would not expect, though, any of the delegates to get this
close, one-on-one, for a photo, however forbearing the Hands were.

Power trio of pioneers, with a signiﬁcant other. From the left, William
Maxwell, Philip Marangella, and John McHenry III, with Ok-sun
McHenry. Among them, the three pioneers accounted for all conti‐
nents except Australia and Antarctica. All three served in Japan and/
or Korea, where John met Ok-sun. Mr. Maxwell and Mr. McHenry
were soon to be appointed Counsellor for Northwest Africa and
Northeast Asia respectively.

Hand of the Cause Enoch Olinga
with Saichiro Fujita and Barbara Sims.

From the left, Angus Cowan, Douglas Martin, and Donald Glen of the
N.S.A. of Canada. Mr. Martin and Ms. Sims were occasionally in
contact as secretaries of their respective National Assemblies (there
is a photo in the album of Mr. Martin and Ms. Sims sitting together).
Mr. Glen served as Treasurer of the Canada Assembly, Mr. Cowan
was to be appointed Counsellor for North America in 1976, and Mr.
Martin was to be elected to the Universal House of Justice in 1993.
(Thanks to Mary Prough and her correspondents for the identiﬁcation
of Mr. Glen.)
Ms. Sims with Knight
of Baháʼuʼlláh Lillian
Alaʼi (middle) and Mary
Tuataga of the South
Paciﬁc Regional
Assembly.
Three of the original
members of the
Sisterhood of the
Spiritual Axis.

The International Convention in session. This photo was taken by
staff and appeared in the June 1968 issue of the Baháʼí News,
published by the U.S. N.S.A. Perhaps the photo was distributed to the
delegates. Though difﬁcult to see, Hands of the Cause and Universal
House of Justice members are seated in the front rows, including
Tarazullah Samandari and Hushmand Fatheazam together very front
and center, and Amoz Gibson and Ali Nakhjavani on the right. Some‐
how Ms. Sims managed to get a seat in the third row, on the aisle,
just left of center (in the light-colored top, arms crossed). One as‐
sumes she did not have to make use of her martial art training in
aikido to get that seat.

The newly-elected Universal House of Justice at the moment it
presented itself to the delegates. From the left, David Ruhe, Hugh
Chance, Borrah Kavelin, David Hofman, Charles Wolcott, Ian
Semple, Hushmand Fatheazam, Ali Nakhjavani, Amoz Gibson.
The Collins Gate to the Shrine of Baháʼuʼlláh, Bahjí.
Ms. Sims with fellow N.E. Asia Assembly member Hideya Suzuki.

Hand of the Cause Tarazullah Samandari at Riḍván Garden. He ﬁrst
visited the Garden nearly 80 years earlier when he attained the
presence of Baháʼuʼlláh. A few months after this photo was taken
Mr. Samandari winged his way to the real Paradise.

The main hall of the Mansion of Baháʼuʼlláh at Bahjí.
The room of Baháʼuʼlláh at Mazraʻih.

Istanbul, Turkey. At the entrance of the site of the future House of
Worship, with the formidable Sami Doktoroglu, a great ﬁgure of the
Turkish Baháʼí community and the person who found the site.
Istanbul, Turkey. The view from the site of the future House of Wor‐
ship, overlooking the Bosporus Strait. Unfortunately the photo is not
clear, because of camera limitations and perhaps hazy weather. Ms.
Sims writes in her memoir that it is a beautiful site.

Edirne (Adrianople), Turkey. The House from which the divine Mes‐
sage was proclaimed and the summons issued to the rulers of the
world; also where the Tablet of Aḥmad was revealed.
Ṭihrán, Iran. The House where Baháʼuʼlláh was born.

Ms. Sims with Iranian friends at the Baháʼí Summer School site north
of Ṭihrán. The school had opened a few years earlier. Fellow North
East Asia Assembly member Abbas Katirai (second from left but
difﬁcult to see) kindly hosted Ms. Sims during her visit to Iran.

Shíráz, Iran. The House of the Báb.
The spot where a new Era in human history dawned.

The spot where a Cycle of at least 500,000 years dawned.

The steps that Mullá Ḥusayn
ascended in wonder and
descended in bliss.

Iṣfahán, Iran.
The graves of the Twin Martyrs (above)
and Keith Ransom-Kehler.

1978. Another photo of ʻAmatuʼl-
Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum in a
kimono, but this one taken in
Japan. This picture is not a part
of the memoir or the photo-album,
but is irresistible.

Editorʼs Notes
1;10. Formal enrollment procedures did not exist in the U.S.
Baháʼí community at that time, and it was usual for persons to profess
their belief in the Cause by writing to ʻAbduʼl-Bahá. These
professions, however, along with all kinds of other letters, amounted
to an enormous volume of correspondence for ʻAbduʼl-Bahá, and in a
number of accounts written by pilgrims and residents of Haifa it is
remarked how much of His time was occupied in dictating, or Himself
writing, replies to letters from around the world that would be piled in
mounds before Him. Some Baháʼís recount that He would answer
letters until He was too exhausted to continue—this surely was one
of ʻAbduʼl-Baháʼs greatest services, as that correspondence sus‐
tained the believers during whatever tests and turmoils they faced.
2;11. In many parts of the United States in those days it was
unthinkable for an African-American to lodge in the same building as
European-Americans. Even in many of the more tolerant areas it was
not a common occurrence.
3;14. The editor has substituted “Ms.” for “Miss” and “Mrs.”
throughout this version of the memoir. (Pace ʻAmatuʼl-Bahá Rúḥíyyih
Khánum.)
4;15. A historical tidbit, researched by Barbara Simsʼ father
Harry Rutledge, concerning her maternal great-great-grandfather
William North Steuben, mentioned here and in the previous section:
Those readers with some familiarity with the American Revolutionary
War will recognize the names “William North” and “Steuben”. William
North Steubenʼs father, Jonathan Arnold (not the Continental Army
surgeon of that name), served under Baron von Steuben, the Prus‐
sian general who fought for the Americans in the Revolutionary War.
General von Steuben had an aide, William North, and William North
Steuben was his namesake. When Benedict Arnold infamously
betrayed the revolutionary cause and went over to the British side,
Jonathan Arnold changed his name to “Steuben” with the generalʼs
approval, perhaps at his urging. The editor has not recently examined
Harry Rutledgeʼs genealogical charts and is not certain whether
Jonathan Arnold and Benedict Arnold were related, but they were
both born in Connecticut Colony and might have been.
5;16. April 17, 1918 – April 24, 2002. Passed away in Tokyo.
6;16. d. 2005.

7;17. Mírzá ʻAsaduʼlláh Fáḍil-i-Mázandarání, the great teacher
and scholar.
8;19. According to U.S. federal government records labelled
“Final Accountability Rosters of Evacuees at Relocation Centers
1942-1946” and available online, for most of the Second World War all
but one of the 14 members of Kanichi Yamamotoʼs family were
conﬁned to internment camps—euphemistically called “Relocation
Centers”—as were most Japanese-Americans. While the third oldest
son, Masao, served in the U.S. Army (ironically enough) and avoided
internment, the two oldest sons, Hiroshi and Shinji, were sent to the
Topaz internment camp in Utah and the other members of the family
to the Gila River camp in Arizona. Hiroshi was later transferred to
Gila River, and Shinji was released from Topaz early (i.e., before
warʼs end), having found employment as an architect in Madison,
Wisconsin, where he lived for the rest of his life, eventually becoming
State Architect and a consultant on the Baháʼí House of Worship in
Wilmette, Illinois. A family photo, taken in 1937 (and provided to Ms.
Sims by Shinji Yamamoto), can be seen in Traces that Remain
(online at www.bahai-library.com/sims_traces_that_remain) p. 14.
In the hardcopy edition of Traces that Remain p. 15 it is stated that
the Yamamoto family were conﬁned in a camp in Parlier, California
during WW2, but that is inaccurate. In the ﬁrst half of 1942, following
Executive Order 9066 and the subsequent proclamation of exclusion
zones by the U.S. military, Japanese-American families living in
coastal areas of California moved inland, either on their own or on
transport arranged by the military, mostly to farm towns in the Central
Valley of California, such as Parlier. From “Assembly Centers” in
Fresno and Pinedale they were “processed” in the latter half of 1942
to the Relocation Centers (i.e., permanent internment camps) further
inland, such as the Gila River, Topaz, and Manzanar facilities.
9;20. Touché to Ms. Sims on this point! As far as this editor is
aware, the American Baháʼís did not give ﬂippant nicknames like
“Fudge” or “Moto” to one another or to the Iranian believers—only to
the two Japanese. Also, Fujita-san (“san” functions like “Mr.” or “Ms.”)
may have been addressed as simply “Fujita” by American Baháʼís,
but certainly not by Japanese Baháʼís, for whom it would have been
unthinkable to fail to use proper honoriﬁcs. One wonders if it was too
much effort for the American Baháʼís to say “Mr. Fujita” or “Fujita-

san”—or “Saichiro” or “Harriston” (or “Sy” or “Harry”) for that matter.
One can hardly imagine Horace Holley or Louis Gregory always
being called simply “Holley” or “Gregory” to his face by other Baháʼís.
10;22. For much of the last two years of the Second World War
Charles A. “Sandy” Sims, 1915-1998, served on the staff of Admiral
Marc Mitscher, commander of the Fast Carrier Task Force, the U.S.
Navyʼs primary battle-force in the Paciﬁc theater, whose missions
were to engage the Imperial Japanese Navy and to support landings
by the Marines and Army on Japanese-held islands. Mr. Sims is
mentioned in a number of war histories and biographies, notably Adm.
Samuel Eliot Morisonʼs classic History of United States Naval Opera‐
tions in World War II, although his speciﬁc duty as a radio intelligence
ofﬁcer is not discussed in the earlier works, as such information was
not declassiﬁed until the 1980s.
11;26. Agnes Alexander states in her History of the Baháʼí Faith
in Japan pp. 5-6 that a “Prof. Barakatullah” arranged the ﬁrst public
talk Howard Struven and C.M. Remey gave on their visit to Japan in
1909. This was Abdul-Haﬁz Mohamed Barakatullah, who soon left
Japan and eventually made a name for himself in the West and in his
native India as a ﬁery religio-political polemicist. Japan in those days
attracted reformists and revolutionaries of various stripes from across
Asia, who were inspired by its overthrow of a dictatorial shogunate,
its subsequent rapid modernization, its re-establishment of imperial
rule and incorporation of the imperial system into the modernization
program, its establishment of a nationalist ideology, its defeat of
Imperial China and Imperial Russia, regarded as decadent and
backward, in wars, and its insistence on being treated by Western
powers as an equal in diplomatic and commercial matters.
Barakatullah worked as an editor of a Baháʼí journal published in the
United States in the very early 1900s, and Remey seems to have
regarded him as a Baháʼí, calling him a “believer” and “brother” (the
latter being a term used in those days among Baháʼís to refer to male
believers) in articles appearing in Star of the West magazine—al‐
though this may be no more than a matter of Remeyʼs lack of perspi‐
cacity or common sense. ʻAbduʼl-Bahá was forbearing toward
Barakatullah but Ms. Alexander quotes His ultimately harsh judge‐
ment ibid. p. 6 (quoting from Maḥmúdʼs Diary).
12;27. As anyone who has lived in or studied Japanese culture

or society knows, the teacher occupies an exalted station, not only in
education and pedagogy per se but in the ﬁne arts, crafts, martial
arts, and ascetic disciplines. While the personal relationship of the
teacher and student can make for a relatively smooth intergenera‐
tional transmission of knowledge, wisdom, and skill, there can grow in
the student an excessive dependence on or attachment to the teach‐
er, manifested in various ways including a tendency to think and act
exclusively in relation to the teacher and not in relation to others in
society. For the early Japanese Baháʼís Agnes Alexander was truly a
teacher, but when she left Japan, as she periodically did, the Baháʼí
community would go dormant.
It has to be mentioned that the Second World War not only de‐
prived the Japanese Baháʼís of their teacher and mentor for several
years, but in some instances of tablets of ʻAbduʼl-Bahá they had
received and other Baháʼí literature, lost in the turmoil. Great credit
must go to the people of Japan, including the Baháʼís themselves, for
rebounding from the utter devastation of total war. It is interesting in
this regard that in the pilgrimage notes of Hiroyasu Takano (see notes
26 and 66 herein) Shoghi Effendi is said to have remarked that
Japanʼs suffering during the war qualiﬁed it to function as both an
attracting and radiating center of the Faith.
13;30. The Korean War had ended in an armistice the previous
summer, but tensions were still very high. The war was a boon to
Japanʼs economy, because the country served as a base for United
Nations operations in Korea. Incidentally, the Korean War formally
continues, as it was never ended by treaty, i.e., within the framework
of international law. This fact partly explains the high level of tension
that has prevailed on the Korean peninsula over the decades.
Ms. Simsʼ references to “Korea” are to the Republic of Korea,
informally South Korea, from 1948 on. Before the Second World War,
during the time-period of the initial establishment of the Baháʼí Faith in
East Asia, Korea was occupied by Japan.
14;30. Y.A. Rafaat (Yaduʼlláh Rafʻat) had distinguished himself
many years earlier, in 1930, as Martha Rootʼs interpreter on her
journey through Syria, Iraq, and Iran. After leaving Japan Mr. Rafaat
served on the N.S.A. of France and lived in California, U.S.A., pass‐
ing away there in 1989.
Like quite a few Baháʼís in Iran, Mr. Rafaat attended Esperanto

classes taught by Muhammad Labib, and like his former language
student, Mr. Labib was later a pioneer in Japan: from 1956 to 1963 he
lived in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. In 1919 during an extended stay in
the Holy Land, Muhammad Labib was told by ʻAbduʼl-Bahá that in the
future he would teach the Faith in Esperanto in Japan (after Mr. Labib
asked ʻAbduʼl-Bahá to interpret a dream he had had), and indeed it
was among Esperantists in Hiroshima that Mr. Labib ﬁrst taught the
Faith 37 years later, before moving to Nagasaki, where he lived for
most of his stay in Japan and where he gave both Esperanto and
English classes. Mr. Labib met Esperantists in Hiroshima quite by
accident: he was walking down the street and saw a man wearing the
Esperanto symbol, the Verda Stelo (green ﬁve-pointed star), and
introduced himself to the man in Esperanto. Within a fairly short time
of Mr. Labibʼs arrival in both Hiroshima and Nagasaki, Spiritual
Assemblies were elected. (Among Mr. Labibʼs spiritual children in
Nagasaki was Kimiko Odamura, later Schwerin, who was to be
appointed Counsellor and serve at the International Teaching Center.)
In Iran Mr. Labib distinguished himself by establishing the prominent
Naw-Nahálán educational fund for children, by teaching at Baháʼí
schools, and by assisting Efﬁe Baker in her Dawn-Breakers photo-
trip. After leaving Japan Mr. Labib pioneered on Rhodes Island,
Greece, and later lived in the United States. He passed away in 1981.
(On Muhammad Labib see also note 73.)
15;31. Philip Marangella embraced the Baháʼí Faith in New York
City in 1921 not long after hearing Mírzá ʻAsaduʼlláh Fáḍil-i-
Mázandarání (Jenab-e-Fazel) speak at Green Acre, and became a
prominent speaker and teacher on the U.S. East Coast and periodi‐
cally elsewhere in the country and in Canada. He later pioneered in
Cuba and in Italy, and arrived in Japan in October 1953. His poetry,
praised by Shoghi Effendi, can be found in The Baháʼí World Vol. V.
Mr. Marangella was an accountant by profession and served the
Faith, among many other ways, as a ﬁnancial consultant. He is fondly
remembered by this editor for his digniﬁed mien, ﬁne speaking voice
and ability, and the red Thunderbird he drove around Tokyo. He
passed away in Hong Kong in 1974.
16;32. The Simses and the Childs were casually acquainted
from the prewar days. Missionary families from around Japan would
gather for the summer in the mountain resorts of Karuizawa and Lake

Nojiri, developed by the foreign community. One of the ﬁrst things
Westerners did in every Asian country they settled was establish
resorts for themselves in the highlands.
17;33. The Ainu are a formerly subjugated aboriginal people who
now live mostly in Hokkaido, the northernmost of the four main
islands of Japan. Baháʼís of Ainu ethnicity have served as N.S.A. and
Auxiliary Board members in Japan (see also note 73).

18;34. Sandy Sims told this editor that one of the frustrating
things about working with NHKʼs orchestra writing pop and jazz
arrangements was dealing with the entrenched seniority system—
seniority, i.e., personal hierarchy, being a social ﬁrst principle in
Japan. Mr. Sims would leave space in the jazz charts for ad lib
(improvised) solos, usually clarinet or trumpet, with the assumption
that orchestra members with some jazz experience would take the
solos, but the seniority system dictated that the ﬁrst-chair invariably
took any solo, even if he (no shes in those days) had no idea how to
play ad lib. On occasion Mr. Sims had to (quite oxymoronically) write
out the improvised part. As a singer, Mr. Simsʼ high point was being
invited to appear on the 1955 edition of NHKʼs nationally broadcast
Kohaku Uta Gassen (“Red-White Singing Competition”), a New
Yearʼs Eve battle-of-the-sexes music program that was and still is an
entertainment institution in Japan. He could not make the show,
however, as he was stranded by a storm on an overseas business
trip and was unable to return to Japan in time. Mr. Sims is listed on
Japanese websites and blogs dedicated to the program as one of
several answers to a trivia question: Who was scheduled to appear
on the show but could not and was replaced by another singer?
19;41. Concerning Ms. Simsʼ reference to the personal habits of
the construction company ofﬁce employees: the gutter running in
front of the Baháʼí Center was eventually covered over and they
stopped relieving themselves in it. The construction company, whose
administrative ofﬁce was located diagonally across a narrow street
from the Center, was owned by persons afﬁliated with what might be
called an underworld organization. On one occasion during the 1980s
there was a rather well-attended meeting at the ofﬁce and a (polite)
request was received by the Baháʼí Center to allow the overﬂow of
attendeesʼ automobiles to occupy the Center parking lot for a few
hours, a request that was granted as there was no Baháʼí gathering

coinciding: Ms. Sims, who in 1978 had moved into an apartment
across the street from the Baháʼí Center in diagonally the other
direction from the company ofﬁce and who kept her car in the Center
parking lot, found a ten-thousand yen note (then worth 50 or 60 U.S.
dollars, today about 100 dollars) on the lot ground after the meeting
and promptly took it over to the company ofﬁce, to profuse thanks
from the employees. After that, Ms. Sims was the recipient of warm
greetings whenever the employees saw her.
As for Japanese toilets, they are today the worldʼs most functional‐
ly advanced. Most are Western-style (i.e., sit-down) and some of
those have an attached panel with an array of buttons, switches, and
lights that might make one think of the cockpit of an airliner. On get-
ting up, the user will be cleaner than when he/she sat down and will
feel refreshed, indeed renewed. Japan is the worldʼs leading exporter
of toilets, by the way, particularly portable units which are contributed
by the thousands to areas of the world with poor sanitation.
20;41. A practice, increasingly rare in these days of ferrocon‐
crete and steel construction, that has its origin hundreds of years ago
in the Wood Age of Japan.
21;43. It should be noted that some of the behavior and circum‐
stances described in this section—from public relieving (by sober, as
opposed to drunk, persons) to climbing in through windows and
stripping down to underwear on trains to honey buckets—have since
all but or completely disappeared. There was, to an extent, a break‐
down in mores in Japanese society during and immediately after the
Second World War, and some bad behavior may have been a linger‐
ing effect. Also, the Japanese were a people with an ancient history
and customary ways of doing things which, from a Western perspec‐
tive, no doubt seemed odd or perturbing—many Western ways would
have seemed the same to the Japanese. It is also true that the
sensibilities of the Japanese can change: this editor remembers that
when he was small, public littering, including on trains, was not
unusual, but such behavior is rare now. In fact, Japanese soccer
fans are known for picking up litter in the stands after World Cup and
other matches. On the other hand, it is an embarrassing fact that
Mount Fuji was registered as a UNESCO World Cultural Heritage site
only after it was rejected as a Natural Heritage site because the
mountainʼs foothills had been used for decades as a dumping ground

by construction companies and others and also because of garbage
and lack of sanitary facilities on the trails. The rejection was a shock
to the Japanese, who are very sensitive to how they are perceived by
foreigners, and the mountain and its environs have since been
(mostly) cleaned up.
Incidentally, honey buckets were one reason the city of Edo, as
Tokyo was called in the samurai days, is regarded today by re‐
searchers as something of an ecological model. Despite its big
population, estimated to have been the largest of any city in the world
for much or all of the 1700s, the system Edo had for removal of waste
was far more efﬁcient, practical, and ecologically sound than that of
contemporary European cities, where household slop was routinely
heaved into the street or river. In its heyday Edo may well have been
the most “eco-conscious” city in the world: recycling, repair, and
resale were highly evolved businesses, and contemporary accounts,
including those of Western visitors at the end of the Edo Period and
just after (1860s and ʼ70s), attest a clean, unlittered, well-maintained
city.
Japan is today a thoroughly modern, technologically advanced
country, with a well-mannered graciousness that never fails to im‐
press visitors, with both traditional and pop cultures that have gained
admirers and exerted inﬂuence worldwide, and with a quality of daily
life that in many ways—such as customer service, decorum in social
intercourse, technical caliber and ergonomic and energy efﬁciency of
household appliances and other products, sheer number and variety
of useful gizmos, gadgets, and thingamajigs, general standard of
foodstuffs and of restaurants, down-to-the-minute-or-second timeli‐
ness and reliability—is arguably superior to what prevails anywhere
else in the world—certainly the Japanese themselves think so, and
they are probably right. That said, there is no doubt Japan has suf‐
fered a decline in social standards and behavior over the past two or
three decades.
Even in times predating Ms. Simsʼ arrival Japan made a very good
impression: Keith Ransom-Kehler, the great Baháʼí teacher, who
visited in 1931, told Agnes Alexander in a letter written in Iran just
before she passed away that Japan was her favorite among the
many countries she traveled to, and well-traveled public ﬁgures
ranging from Albert Einstein to Charlie Chaplin to Albert Kahn (the

French ﬁnancier and amateur ethnographer who bankrolled a project
to photographically record all the worldʼs cultures) enthused about
Japan, comparing it favorably to other countries they visited.
22;43. The dojo where Ms. Sims trained was and is the world
headquarters of the Aikikai, the original aikido organization, and over
the decades has attracted hundreds of practitioners from around the
world. It is a few minutesʼ walk from the Baháʼí Center.
Toho Studios is where, among works familiar to Western audi‐
ences, Akira Kurosawaʼs ﬁlms and the “Godzilla” (and “Mothra”)
series were shot. Ms. Sims did not appear in those, unfortunately.
23;43. A Japanese prefecture, while not perfectly analogous, is
similar to a U.S. state or a French province in being an intermediate
polity between the federal/national and local levels. Yamaguchi is the
westernmost of the prefectures on the island of Honshu, the largest of
the four main islands of Japan. Honshu is where Tokyo and Osaka
and most of the other large cities are located.
24;43. Mr. Fujita was Japanese and Palestine was then under
British control; Japan and Britain were to be combatants in the Sec‐
ond World War, which broke out the following year.
25;44. There is an interview with Mr. Fujita, conducted by Sylvia
Ioas, online here: www.bahai-library.com/ioas_fujita_interview. In this
interview his English comes across as a bit broken; presumably this
is a result of his advanced age at the time of the interview. The
interview was conducted by Ms. Ioas at the request of John McHenry
III, who was a pioneer in Korea and a member of the Asian Board of
Counsellors.
26;44. Lester and Mabel Long, later pioneers in Peru, were the
Baháʼí couple Hiroyasu Takano stayed with in the U.S. They took him
to the dedication of the House of Worship in Wilmette in May 1953,
and he was highly impressed by the occasion, embracing the Faith
soon after and applying for pilgrimage. Mr. Takanoʼs pilgrimage notes
are online here: www.bahai-library.com/
takano_memories_talks_guardian. See also note 66 herein.
27;46. In her pilgrimage notes taken in 1937 Agnes Alexander
writes that Shoghi Effendi told her 80% of his time was spent on
correspondence and 80% of that with individuals. One would assume
that by the 1950s correspondence accounted for well over 80%,
considering the growth in the number of believers and institutions,

although in the 1950s Shoghi Effendi had more secretarial help. Ms.
Alexanderʼs pilgrimage notes are online here: www.bahai-library.com/
alexander_notes_presence_shoghieffendi.
Incidentally, on the above webpage two versions of the notes of
Ms. Alexanderʼs pilgrimage are displayed side by side, and there is
commentary on the webpage contrasting the two versions. This editor
temporarily has in his possession a typewritten set of Ms.
Alexanderʼs 1937 pilgrimage notes signed by her on the upper right of
the ﬁrst page. (Her signature is unmistakeable to anyone familiar with
her personal papers, and is virtually identical to her signature as it
appears in the book Ministry of the Custodians p. 30 under “1957
Unanimous Proclamation of the 27 Hands of the Cause of God”.) At
the top of the ﬁrst page of the typewritten notes, perhaps in Ms.
Alexanderʼs hand, is written “Tokyo Hazirat Bahaʼi Library” (this must
have been written in the mid-1950s or later, as there could not have
been such a library before then). The account is entitled “Notes of
Shoghi Effendiʼs words taken by me at the dinner table in the Pilgrim
House in Haifa, April 22nd to May 12th, 1937”. The pages have aged,
and the typing is unmistakably Ms. Alexanderʼs (again, obvious to
anyone familiar with her personal papers); the pages are clearly not
carbon or any other kind of copies, but the original. The notes are
mostly organized by topic, with headings and, aside from May 11 and
May 12, no dates. This organization by topic distinguishes the notes
from the two versions found on the above-mentioned webpage. The
editorʼs conclusion is that the pilgrimage notes were reorganized and
retyped by Ms. Alexander.
The editor has not yet done a careful comparison of the hardcopy
Agnes Alexander pilgrimʼs notes available to him and the above-
mentioned two online versions of the notes, but a look-through shows
that 1) the hardcopy version contains the “Message to the
Americans” text (but not that heading) appearing in the right-hand
online version but not the left-hand; 2) where one online version has
text that the other online version lacks, the hardcopy contains that
text, or, in other words, the hardcopy version is more complete than
either online version; 3) the hardcopy does not appear to contain text
lacking in both online versions, although the wording of the hardcopy
version differs here and there from each of the online versions, which
suggests that Ms. Alexander reworded her account somewhat upon

reorganizing and retyping it.
In her published History of the Baháʼí Faith in Japan pp. 98, 101-2,
Ms. Alexander refers to comments Shoghi Effendi made to her during
her pilgrimage, in some instances providing context to some of the
content of her pilgrimage notes. History also has a few quotations of
Shoghi Effendiʼs remarks from the pilgrimage not found in the above-
mentioned hardcopy and online versions of the notes, mostly short
passages pertaining to Japan or the Japanese Baháʼís. History
further contains a passage on Confucius found in the hardcopy
version and in the left-hand but not the right-hand online notes.
Lastly, the editor also temporarily has in his possession a typewrit‐
ten account by Ms. Alexander, signed on the upper right of the ﬁrst
page by Ms. Alexander (again, unmistakably her signature), headed
“An account of how I became a Bahaʼi and my stays in Paris in 1901
and 1937, written at the request of Mme Laura Dreyfus-Barney.
[typed] Agnes Baldwin Alexander”. At the top is handwritten, probably
by Ms. Alexander, “Sent to Laura Dreyfus-Barney June 23, 1958”.
The content is identical with what appears online here: www.bahai-
library.com/alexander_linard_autobiography. This typed account is
very likely the original of the online account.
28;46. It was probably the case in the days of the Guardianʼs
ministry that most pilgrims stopped in the Holy Land en route to a
pioneer post or teaching ﬁeld on a one-way journey. Today it is
probably the case that most pilgrims travel roundtrip between home
and the Holy Land (perhaps with stops at places such as Istanbul
and Edirne on the itinerary).
29;49. The International House of Japan is located in the Rop‐
pongi district of Tokyo. According to its website it is “a private, non-
proﬁt organization incorporated, with support from the Rockefeller
Foundation and other private institution[s] and individuals, in 1952 for
the purpose of promoting cultural exchange and intellectual coopera‐
tion between the peoples of Japan and those of other countries.” Ms.
Sims was a member, as were fellow pioneers Agnes Alexander and
Phil Marangella, and enjoyed attending events there and looking
through the libraryʼs diverse collection. The Tokyo Baháʼí community
occasionally held public meetings and talks at International House in
the days Baháʼís were members.
30;50. Robert Imagire was born in Alameda, California, U.S.A.

to Japanese immigrant parents. He accepted the Faith in Reno,
Nevada in 1942 after attending Florence Mayberryʼs ﬁresides and
meeting Leroy and Sylvia Ioas and Bill and Marguerite Sears, who
visited there regularly from California. Mr. Imagire was a draftsman by
profession. After Japan he lived in Iran and Italy and on the east and
west coasts of the U.S. before pioneering in the Cook Islands in the
South Paciﬁc, which he chose for their location on the Paciﬁc spiritual
axis. He lived his last years in Hawaii, where he taught seekers,
deepened believers, danced hula, and passed away in 2015.
31;51. Kyushu is the southernmost of the four main islands of
Japan.
32;51. There has been diversity of religious, ethnic, and racial
heritage among the pioneers in Japan. For instance, Robert Imagire
was Asian-American, Joy Earl and Lecile Webster African-American,
and Phil Marangella (see note 15) was Italian-American—he had put
his bilingual skills to use as a pioneer in Italy before coming to Japan.
Among the Iranians, who began to arrive in Japan in the mid-1950s,
there have been believers of Jewish, Zoroastrian, and Muslim back‐
ground and of Armenian and Azeri descent. The Guardian took note
of this aspect: upon election of the North East Asia Spiritual Assem‐
bly in 1957, his secretary wrote that Shoghi Effendi “was very happy
to see that your Assembly has represented on it members of the
three great races of mankind, a living demonstration of the fundamen‐
tal teaching of our Holy Faith . . .” (Traces that Remain, p. 147; see a
photo of the Assembly in Photographs herein).
33;52. At least a couple of the twentieth-century “sects” Ms.
Sims refers to here quite deliberately appropriated Baháʼí tenets.
The Japanese tend to view themselves as irreligious; they are
culturally quite metaphysically conscious, however, and they have a
history of embracing two major religions, Buddhism and Christianity.
The Pure Land sect of Buddhism, in particular, grew rapidly in Japan
in the years following its introduction in the tenth and eleventh cen‐
turies C.E. Today more Japanese adhere to either of two main
branches of Pure Land than to any other sect of Buddhism.
Building on Shoghi Effendiʼs brief references to Baháʼuʼlláh as the
“ﬁfth Buddha” and the “Maitreye” in the eschatological itemization
found in God Passes By p. 92ff., writers such as Jamshed Fozdar
and Moojan Momen have argued for the association of the syn‐

cretized Maitreya-Amitabha ﬁgure with Baháʼuʼlláh and of the western
Pure Land with Iran and ʻAkká (as Amitabha moved): Fozdarʼs
Buddha Maitreya-Amitabha Has Appeared is the most comprehen‐
sive work, including a compendious application of Hindu timelines.
Such associations are not simply an intellectual exercise of contem‐
porary Baháʼí writers of non-Buddhist background: Agnes Alexander
writes in her History of the Baháʼí Faith in Japan (p. 13) that a man
read an article about the Baháʼí Faith in a newspaper and called on
her, having concluded precisely that Baháʼuʼlláh was Miroku, i.e.,
Maitreya (regrettably Ms. Alexander gives no further information).
Maitreya and Amitabha do not entirely overlap, it can be noted, and
the Pure Land and ʻAkká (the qiblih) can be seen not only as geo‐
graphical locations but as anagogic notions: the state of bliss, the
locus of the pure abode, the direction of the divine.
Christianity (i.e., Catholicism) in Japan grew rapidly in certain
areas in the sixteenth century but was then brutally repressed.
Estimates that this editor has seen of the number of its adherents in
those days range from a couple hundred thousand (undoubtedly too
low) to several million.
Elements of Shinto, the Japanese indigenous belief-system, have
been hypothesized as having foreign—Hindu, Jewish, Taoist, and/or
Zoroastrian as well as Buddhist—origins. Leaving Shinto aside, the
considerable inﬂuence of Zoroastrianism on the development of
Buddhism and Christianity (Nestorianism etc.) in Central and East
Asia (and on Judaism during the Babylonian exile) is undeniable. The
above-mentioned idea of Maitreya may well have Zoroastrian an‐
tecedents, conceptually and even linguistically. There can be little
doubt that (contrary to what some writers have suggested) nearly all
Nestorians in East Asia, including those in Japan, were of Iranic and
Zoroastrian, and few of Syrian or Jewish, stock (the use of the Syriac
script was common among all Nestorians and is not proof, per se, of
ethnicity). The Sogdians, an eastern Iranic people, were merchants
and for hundreds of years the prime facilitators of the ancient Silk
Road trade, demonstrating a readiness to embrace Christianity or
Buddhism and intermarry with locals as they established their inﬂu‐
ence along the Silk Road, while remaining rooted in their cultural and
religious heritage. Sogdians numbered in the many thousands in
China and attained positions of political and cultural as well as com‐

mercial prestige there.
There is circumstantial evidence of an early Central Asian pres‐
ence in Japan, probably a spillover from the large Sogdian population
in China and Korea, and perhaps later, refugees from the Muslim
expansion into Iran. It is interesting that Prince Shotoku, 574-622
C.E., who is revered for having brought centralized rule to Japan and
for having established Buddhism in the land, may have had Central
Asian roots or connections. An inﬂuential clan that supported him, the
Hata, is thought by some scholars to have been Central Asian in
origin—the thesis being that several of the prominent Japanese
families listed, as the Hata clan is, in ancient Japanese records as
originating in China or Korea were descended from some of the many
thousands of Central Asians who had settled in those areas—and
Shotokuʼs mother is listed in ancient records with a kanji character
that today is pronounced “hashi” but in Old Japanese as “pashi”,
which approximates “Parsi” (in Old Japanese as in Modern, /sh/ is
allophonic to /s/ before /i/ )—it is known that kanji characters read as
“pashi” were used in those days to indicate Central Asians. To be
sure, a substantial Central Asian personal—as opposed to material
(via the Silk Road)—presence in ancient Japan is not accepted (for
several reasons) by a majority of Japanese scholars. One scholar
who has nevertheless argued for a strong Central Asian inﬂuence on
ancient Japan is Eiichi Imoto, emeritus professor of Persian language
and cultural anthropology at Osaka University of Foreign Studies.
When he was a student Prof. Imotoʼs Persian-language instructor
was Ms. Moluke Kazempour Amin-Amin, a Baháʼí pioneer to Japan.
Foad Katirai, son of Baháʼí pioneers to Japan, has also extensively
researched Zoroastrian and Iranian inﬂuences on Japan.
34;55. This editor never heard from Ms. Sims why Nikko was
chosen for the site of the Asian Teaching Conference rather than the
far more convenient Tokyo, but it is probably for two reasons: Tokyo
is still warm and humid and vulnerable to typhoons in September
while Nikko is 150 kilometers north of Tokyo in the mountains and
much cooler; and the sponsor of the conference was the U.S. N.S.A.,
some of whose members might have recalled that Keith Ransom-
Kehler had some years earlier effusively praised Nikko in one of the
accounts she wrote of her international travels that appeared in The
Bahaʼi Magazine (Star of the West ).

Nikko is a tourist town and is where Ieyasu, the ﬁrst and greatest
ﬁgure of the Tokugawa Shogunate, the last and greatest of the
shogunates, is both enshrined and entombed within a complex of
Shinto structures some of which date back 400 years. (Shogunates
were dynastic dictatorships based on the armed power of the shogun,
a kind of generalissimo.) A separate Shinto shrine and a Buddhist
temple were founded at Nikko over 1,000 years ago, and today the
two Shinto and the Buddhist complexes, totaling over 100 structures
and sacred groves, and surrounding forest as well, constitute a
UNESCO World Heritage Site. Trivia item (noted by Ms. Ransom-
Kehler): One of the earliest, perhaps the earliest, and certainly the
best-known, depiction of the proverbial Three Wise Monkeys—“see
no evil, hear no evil, speak no evil”—is a carving on Toshogu Shrine
at Nikko.
35;56. The cities, Kobe, Nishinomiya, and Amagasaki, are west
of Osaka.
36;58. The Japan Baháʼí community has since deepened on the
burial laws, and those laws are now followed. The general level of
deepening has improved with the availability of more study literature
including Ruhi Institute volumes.
37;60. Along with other parts of her book, Ms. Sims did not
ﬁnish this paragraph (and likely more) concerning the Ten-Year Plan
goals given the N.E. Asia Assembly by the Guardian. In the letter the
Guardian wrote to the newly elected Assembly he gave the goals as
follows:
I call upon the Regional Spiritual Assembly now being
formed to signalize its birth through the initiation of a
subsidiary Six-Year Plan, designed to swell the number
of the adherents of the Faith throughout the area of its
jurisdiction; to multiply the groups, the isolated centers
and the local spiritual assemblies; to incorporate all ﬁrmly
grounded local spiritual assemblies; to obtain recognition
from the civil authorities for the Baháʼí Marriage Certiﬁ‐
cate, as well as the Baháʼí Holy Days; to inaugurate a
national Baháʼí Fund; to consolidate the work initiated in
the newly opened territories; to lend an impetus to the
translation, the publication, and dissemination of Baháʼí
literature in divers languages; to establish Summer

Schools, and Baháʼí burial grounds; to propagate the
Faith throughout the smaller islands of Japan; and to
acquire a plot to serve as the site of the ﬁrst Mas͟hriquʼl-
Ad ͟hkár of North-East Asia.
These goals were achieved, although in the case of some goals
achievement was a matter of degree.
The donation by pioneer Abbas Katirai of a large burial ground in
the town of Ashiya, between Osaka and Kobe, must be mentioned:
without this land, and a separately acquired much smaller parcel
within Yokohama Foreignersʼ Cemetery, burial of believers, in a
country in which most cemeteries do not allow interment of uncremat‐
ed remains, would have been a very serious problem. (Actually it is
only since the Meiji Restoration, i.e., about the latter 1800s, that
cremation has become the norm in Japan.) Travel time to the Baháʼí
cemetery has often totaled more than one hour, and ad hoc permis‐
sion sought from the Universal House of Justice, which permission
has been granted along with the encouragement to acquire more
burial grounds around the country. In recent years several grounds
have been acquired and there are currently seven Baháʼí cemeteries.
38;60. Initially Hainan Island near Hong Kong and Sakhalin
Island north of Japan were also in the Assemblyʼs jurisdiction. This
was one of several Regional Spiritual Assemblies that were estab‐
lished around the world, including one in Southeast Asia.
39;62. In 1955 a bilingual glossary of Baháʼí terms was pro‐
duced by Tameo Hongo and David Earl. This would have been a help
in translation efforts.
40;65. Hushmand Fatheazam.
41;66. There is a perfectly framed and posed photograph taken
of the delegates to the ﬁrst International Convention, in 1963: see The
Baháʼí World Vol. XIV, p. 430 (online at bahai-library.com/pdf/bw/
bahai_world_volume_14b.pdf). The delegates are posed on the steps
of the Archives building and the lawn outside it, facing in the direction
of where the Universal House of Justice building now stands. The
delegates look like a wave, ﬂowing from the grass onto the steps.
According to what Ms. Sims told this editor, although there was some
idea of posing all the delegates on the Archives building steps,
ʻAmatuʼl-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum and Agnes Alexander walked
together out onto the grass and sat on the ground for the photo, and

all the delegates then gravitated toward them and gathered around
them; those at the back of the pack of delegates stayed on the steps
to get into the shot. The online photo is not clear, but Rúḥíyyih
Khánum and Agnes Alexander are sitting in the front in light-colored
clothes.
42;68. In the 1960s Tokyoʼs air was at peak pollution, which
aggravated Ms. Simsʼ asthma. Air quality improved greatly in Japan in
succeeding decades and the asthma abated, although it never
disappeared. Dr. Toshio Suzuki, a physician and for many years
N.S.A. or Auxiliary Board member, kindly provided Ms. Sims with
many an inhaler over the years.
43;69. The Iranian pioneers in western Japan established
successful trading companies.
44;71. John M. “Jack” Davis Jr. pioneered in the Philippines,
Japan, and Taiwan, and traveled to other Asian countries to teach the
Faith and conduct deepenings. He pioneered to Asia from North
Carolina, U.S.A., where in the latter half of the 1950s he was active in
the Faith as a speaker and moderator at events and as chairman of
the Greensboro Spiritual Assembly and delegate to the National
Convention. (He was preceded as a pioneer from North Carolina to
the Philippines by Orpha Daugherty.) He was a radio reporter in
North Carolina, and also with the U.S. Armed Forces in Japan in the
early 1950s before he became a Baháʼí. In the 1960s Jack Davis
lived in the Philippines, where he carried out mass-teaching cam‐
paigns in remote mountain villages and also where, in stark contrast,
he was an entertainer appearing in movies, singing, and hosting a
television variety show. He passed away in Taiwan in 1999.
45;76. See here for a list of Barbara Simsʼ presentations at
A.B.S. conferences: bahai-library.com/fotos_barbara_sims_contribu‐
tion. The article is by Ms. Simsʼ daughter Sandra Sims Fotos, who
has been active in the A.B.S. as an ofﬁcer, editor, and presenter.
As Ms. Sims implies here and below, she did not see herself as a
scholar and expected historians to eventually do more rigorous
studies of the Faithʼs early years in East Asia. She felt it was impor‐
tant to set down the historical outlines of the Japan and other East
Asia communities—as she explains in her memoir and other books,
the “traces” left by the early believers in those communities and the
communications from the Holy Land to those early believers—so that

the newer generations of believers would have some appreciation of
their communitiesʼ heritage.
46;79. Both Japan Will Turn Ablaze and Traces that Remain
have an errata list for the hardcopy edition. See here: www.bahai-
library.com/pdf/s/sims_errata_traces_ablaze.pdf. The corrections
have been made to the version of each book on the Baháʼí Library
Online website. All references to Japan Will Turn Ablaze in these
editorial notes are to the 1992 revised edition.
47;80. The Hong Kong Baháʼí history the draft of which Ms.
Sims corrected can be found in its ﬁnal form online here: www.bahai-
library.com/hassall_bahai_hong_kong.
48;81. A monograph, if not a book, regarding the Paciﬁc spiritual
axis, authored by Graham Hassall and William Barnes, is online here:
www.bahai-library.com/hassall_asia-paciﬁc_spiritual_axis. See also
then-Counsellor Peter Khanʼs excellent article on the axis in the May
1983 issue of the U.S. Baháʼí News: bahai-news.info/viewer.erb?
vol=10&page=871. See further the pilgrimages notes of Hiroyasu
Takano, referred to in note 26, in which Shoghi Effendi is quoted
speaking of Japan and Australia as centers of radiating light and
poles of attractive force (the word “axis” itself not appearing).
49;82. Much research has been done on the history of the
Baháʼí Faith in East Asia. Perhaps the Chinese-speaking communi‐
ties have produced and beneﬁted from the most thorough scholar-
ship, with Cai Degui, David A. Palmer, Jimmy Seow, Phyllis Ghim-
Lian Chew, and Graham Hassall, among others, making substantial
contributions (easily searched online). Hassall has written extensive‐
ly on the histories of Baháʼí communities worldwide. One of his
documents, “National Spiritual Assemblies: Lists and years of forma‐
tion”, online at www.bahai-library.com/hassall_nsas_years_formation,
has several omissions (as of January 2019) regarding East Asia, as
follows: In the alphabetical section, Japan, while correctly subsumed
under the North East Asia Assembly, which was formed in 1957,
should properly be listed separately as well, because the North East
Asia Assembly went out of existence in 1974 and Japan elected a
National Assembly; Korea, which like Japan was initially a part of the
North East Asia Assembly, is incorrectly listed as initially part of the
South East Asia Assembly; Hong Kong and Taiwan also were initially
parts of the North East Asia Assembly, but are not so listed; Macau,

also initially part of the North East Asia Assembly and which elected
its ﬁrst National Assembly in 1989, is not listed at all; in the chrono‐
logical section, Japan, while correctly listed under “1957” as part of
the North East Asia Assembly, is not listed separately although it
should so appear under “1974”; Taiwan is not listed although it should
appear under “1957” as part of the N.E. Asia Assembly and separate‐
ly under “1967”; Hong Kong is not listed although it should appear
under “1957” as part of the N.E. Asia Assembly and separately under
“1974”; Macau is not listed although it should appear under “1957” as
part of the N.E. Asia Assembly and separately under “1989”; Korea
should appear under “1957” as part of the N.E. Asia Assembly (it is
correctly listed separately under “1964”); and Hainan Island and
Sakhalin Island, initially within the jurisdiction of the North East Asia
Assembly but later assigned elsewhere, are not listed in either the
alphabetical or chronological section.
Further on scholarship: Zafar Moghbel, son of pioneers to Japan,
has for several years posted to a domestic Baháʼí listserv an excel‐
lent series of articles in Japanese relating to the history of the Faith
not only in Japan but also elsewhere in Asia and in the West. The
more recent articles have been gathered online at bahai-
shiryoshu.org/wp/. Foad Katirai, also the son of pioneers to Japan,
has translated, edited, annotated, and published a bilingual edition,
entitled in English Aibara Susumu A Taisho Era Eliteʼs Consideration
of the Bahaʼi Movement, of the university thesis of Susumu Aibara, a
Japanese Baháʼí of considerable capacity and promise who passed
away at a relatively young age in 1931. (As part of his research Mr.
Aibara corresponded with Shoghi Effendi and John Esslemont, who
sent him reference literature.) Members of the Japan branch of the
Association for Baháʼí Studies have presented papers that examine
the Faith in Japan from historical and cultural perspectives.
The Wikipedia article “Baháʼí Faith in Japan”, apparently largely
the work of a person not a member of that national community, is (as
of February 2018) adequate in some places but disjointed or haphaz‐
ard in other places, with obsolete or incomplete information, gaps, and
mistakes. (This seems to result sometimes on Wikipedia when
contributors see themselves as generalists and dash off multiple
articles on various subjects, in some cases lacking personal or
professional familiarity with the subject matter and simply piecing the

articles together like patchwork quilts from numerous easily
accessed online sources.) The Bahaikipedia (now Bahaipedia) entry
“Japan” (as of Feb. 2018) rehashes the Wikipedia article. There is no
Wikipedia article in Japanese devoted speciﬁcally to the Faith in
Japan (as of Feb. 2018), although there is mention of the subject in
other Japanese-language Wikipedia articles such as on the Baháʼí
Faith generally and on Saichiro Fujita. There are other Japanese-
language websites and blogs not afﬁliated with the Faith in which the
Faith is referred to, with varying degrees of accuracy. The National
Spiritual Assembly of the Baháʼís of Japan, the Association for Baháʼí
Studies in Japan, and Baháʼí individuals in Japan have websites or
blogs in Japanese or English or both.
50;83. Ms. Sims often spoke publicly and privately with appreci‐
ation of the many persons, Baháʼí and not, who assisted her in
various ways during her researches and associated travels. Many of
these persons are credited by name in the afterword of her book
Traces that Remain and a few are mentioned here and there in her
memoir. Others could be named, such as Daryoush and Marife
Yazdani and Mr. Hideyasu Takashima. Also to be mentioned in this
connection are staff at the World Center Archives and U.S. National
Baháʼí Archives, who were always helpful.
51;87. Jinzo Naruse was a Christian and founder of the Concor‐
dia Movement, which advocated amity among nations and religions.
(Not to be confused with the Concordia Association, a political party
in 1930s Japanese-occupied Manchuria.) Naruse was in Europe to
promote this movement when he met ʻAbduʼl-Bahá in London.
The prayer ʻAbduʼl-Bahá wrote in Jinzo Naruseʼs notebook is not
headed “for the Japanese” or “for Japan” nor is Japan mentioned in
the text; however, Ms. Sims considered that it was revealed for the
Japanese to meditate on and to act on. In her History of the Baháʼí
Faith in Japan p. 4 Agnes Alexander quotes ʻAbduʼl-Baháʼs secretary
writing that the Master spoke to Naruse about the principles of the
Faith, stated that “Just as the sun is the source of all light in the solar
system, so today Baháʼuʼlláh is the Center of unity of the human race
and of the peace of the world” (which perhaps is an indirect way of
saying that human conceptions of unity such as Concordia have their
ultimate origin in the divine Revelation), wrote the prayer, and then
“earnestly pleaded with [Naruse] to go back to Japan and spread

these lofty ideals.” Incidentally, the English translation of the prayer
Ms. Alexander quotes in her History is a bit different from that quoted
in this memoir; the memoirʼs version is the same as that in a facsimile
of the prayerʼs Persian and English texts found in Traces that Remain
p. 24 (online at www.bahai-library.com/
sims_traces_that_remain&chapter=4).
52;88. There is a photograph of the group of Japanese high
school girls here referred to, along with an explanatory caption, in
Traces that Remain p. 39, and a larger photo but with shorter caption
in History of the Baháʼí Faith in Japan p. 36 (online here: www.bahai-
library.com/sims_traces_that_remain&chapter=13 or www.bahai-
library.com/alexander_history_bahai_japan&chapter=4; Mikae
Komatsu does not appear). The two tablets from ʻAbduʼl-Bahá to the
girls can be read in Japan Will Turn Ablaze pp. 38-9 (online here:
www.bahai-library.com/compilation_japan_turn_ablaze&chapter=5).
The ﬁrst tablet is placed on the table the girls are standing by.
53;91. The Japanese writing system was simpliﬁed after the
Second World War, and style and terminology modernized. Literature
dating to prewar times can be difﬁcult for the modern generation to
read and understand. The Japan N.S.A. and Publishing Trust have
endeavored to modernize translations of Baháʼí literature.
54;94. There is confusion here about Nakamuras. The
Nakamura who was the blind editor of a Braille journal, entitled Ake‐
bono (“Daybreak”), was Kyotaro Nakamura, later editor of the Tenji
Mainichi (“Braille Daily”) newspaper. The “cake shop and restaurant”
was the Nakamura-ya, an establishment that was known for what
was then (1910s and ʼ20s) an adventurous and varied menu, featur‐
ing French pastries and authentic (as opposed to modiﬁed or
imitation) Chinese and Indian dishes. The Nakamura-ya was owned
and operated not by the above or any other Mr. Nakamura but rather
by husband and wife, Aizo and Kokko Soma. The Somas had a salon
for artists and intellectuals, and were patrons of Vasily Eroshenko
among others. Agnes Alexander and Tokujiro Torii, who was to
embrace the Baháʼí Faith and to become chairman of the Japan
Committee for the Welfare of the Blind, attended the salon. The salon
and the original cake shop and restaurant are long gone, and
Nakamura-ya has evolved into a foodstuffs company that runs a
chain of eateries and keeps the memory of the salon alive in a muse‐

um. The museum (as opposed to the room piled full of memorabilia)
was not yet established when Ms. Sims inquired at Nakamura-ya
about Eroshenko.
The above-mentioned Kyotaro Nakamura in 1917 published in the
form of a pamphlet in Braille a translation of an article about the Baháʼí
Faith written by Ms. Alexander for blind women in Japan. This pam‐
phlet was the ﬁrst to be published about the Faith in the Japanese
language, Braille or otherwise, according to Ms. Alexander.
Perhaps more than in any other country in those days, the Baháʼí
Faith resonated among the blind or among those who were both blind
and Esperantists in Japan. In the book Japan Will Turn Ablaze there
are tablets from ʻAbduʼl-Bahá to three blind persons: these may be the
only tablets to individuals so far published in English in which ʻAbduʼl-
Bahá speciﬁcally addresses the topic of physical blindness.
(The use herein of the word “blind”—describing persons lacking
the physiological sense of sight—accords with a statement found
online here: courses.csail.mit.edu/PPAT/fall2011/labs/01/NFB-resolu‐
tion.pdf or www.nfb.org/images/nfb/Publications/bm/bm09/bm0903/
bm090308.htm.)
55;94. A book about Vasily Eroshenko was issued by Iwanami
Publishing Co. in 1982, written by Ichiro Takasugi (d. 2008), a novel‐
ist, biographer, translator, and Esperantist. This appears to be the
book Ms. Sims is referring to. Takasugi also wrote a “spiritual history”
of the Zamenhof family (1981), and perhaps the Esperantist who Ms.
Sims states inquired at the Baháʼí Center was seeking information
about that family as well. The Japan Esperanto Association published
a book about Eroshenko in 2015.
It is remarkable how closely the Baháʼí Faith and Esperanto were
associated at one time, particularly in Japan and China and in
Europe. Esperanto is prominent in Agnes Alexanderʼs History of the
Baháʼí Faith in Japan, and the biography Martha Root: Lioness at the
Threshold makes clear that Ms. Root organized her itinerary in
Europe around Esperanto events. Indeed, one might get the impres‐
sion that Ms. Root regarded the Baháʼí Faith and Esperanto as being
integral to each other. The Japanese looked to Europe for intellectual
inspiration in those days, which likely explains Esperantoʼs popularity
in Japan, but the languageʼs very Euro-centricity is probably what
eventually dimmed its luster in Japan and as a truly international

medium.
56;95. The “intriguing references” to Ichi Kamichika that Ms.
Sims read in Agnes Alexanderʼs History of the Baháʼí Faith in Japan
would surely include her imprisonment (p. 24). Ms. Alexander does
not mention the reason for the imprisonment, but it is an episode well
known in intellectual circles in Japan and has been the subject of
essays, dissertations, dramas, and documentaries. Sufﬁce it to say
that in 1916 Ms. Kamichika was in what might be called a “free”
relationship with a literary man of similar political and social leanings,
and when she found him in the close company of another woman,
she decided he was behaving too freely and stabbed him (he sur‐
vived). She served two years in prison.
Ichi (or Ichiko) Kamichika (d. 1981) was a journalist and later a
social critic as well as parliamentarian. She appears in the ﬁrst
photograph taken of a Baháʼí meeting in Japan, on the occasion of
Martha Rootʼs ﬁrst visit, in 1915, standing on the far left (quite appro‐
priately); see Traces that Remain p. 33 or Japan Will Turn Ablaze p.
40. (The photo in Ablaze is clearer but does not have as detailed a
caption. See online: www.bahai-library.com/
compilation_japan_turn_ablaze&chapter=5 or www.bahai-library.com/
sims_traces_that_remain&chapter=8.) Another person in the photo,
seated fourth from left, is Ujaku Akita, author of several sympathetic
newspaper articles about the Baháʼí Faith, playwright, novelist,
Esperantist (an acquaintance of the aforementioned Vasily
Eroshenko and editor of an anthology of Eroshenkoʼs works), Fabian
or communist or both, and in his later years a founding member of the
Japan Militant Atheistsʼ Alliance.
Agnes Alexander began her Baháʼí career in Japan in the Taisho
Period, a time of philosophical, literary, and artistic ferment in Japan,
just as the preceding Meiji Period had been a time of political, eco‐
nomic, and technological revolution. Some of the individuals Ms.
Alexander made contact with in the early days of her life in Japan
were communists, socialists, or anarchists. For them, the persona of
Ms. Alexander—a single, middle-aged Western woman fervently
espousing progressive social principles such as equal status of the
sexes, universal education, accord of science and religion, elimina‐
tion of extremes of wealth and poverty, oneness of humankind—must
have been highly intriguing and attractive, even charismatic.

However, one can speculate that these individuals could not bring
themselves to accept the theological or “spiritual” teachings of the
Baháʼí Faith—the reality of the Divinity, the Manifestation, the Revela‐
tion, the Dispensation—as suggested by the fact that none of them,
including the above-mentioned Ms. Kamichika, embraced the Faith—
which is to say, they were not recorded by Ms. Alexander in rolls of
believers she compiled—although they helped Ms. Alexanderʼs
proclamation activities by translating Baháʼí literature, having her or
their own articles on the Faith published in newspapers and journals,
and arranging her talks. Perhaps Ms. Alexanderʼs remark speciﬁcally
concerning Vasily Eroshenko summarizes the matter generally
(History p. 21): “Although he had love for the Baháʼí teachings, he did
not experience the great joy which comes through acknowledging
and turning to the Center of the Manifest Light.”
It is highly likely that her association with such individuals brought
the attention of the secret police to Ms. Alexander—it is certain that a
passing reference to Russia made by Martha Root in a speech she
gave during one of her visits to Japan did just that—but whatever
inclination there might have been, if any, among the authorities to
regard Ms. Alexander as unwelcome in their country and deport her—
as happened to Eroshenko—would have been more than counter-
balanced by two reassuring facts: Ms. Alexander herself concentrat‐
ed on religious and social discourse, avoiding political subjects, and
she was friends with, or otherwise had connections to, pillars of the
establishment such as Eiichi Shibusawa, the ﬁrst Western-style
capitalist in Japan, and Rokuichiro Masujima, the international lawyer
and university founder (mentioned in this memoir under “Tokyo
L.S.A.”). Basically, Agnes Alexander was careful what she said and
got along with everyone.
57;97. The Reverend Imaoka (d. 1988) was a prominent ﬁgure
in inter-faith dialogue in Japan. His given name is usually “Shinichiro”
rather than “Nobuichiro” in the sources, the difference being alterna‐
tive pronunciations of the nameʼs initial kanji character (which means
“trustworthy”, “honest”). Rev. Imaoka was educated at Tokyo and
Harvard universities and was twice honored by the emperor. Inﬂu‐
ences on him ranged from Zen Buddhism to Shinto to Ralph Waldo
Emerson and the Free Religious Association, the Japan namesake of
which he was a co-founder. The school where he kept his ofﬁce and

held Unitarian Fellowship meetings was Seisoku High School, of
which he was principal from 1925 to 1973. According to the Japanese
Wikipedia entry about him, at the time of his passing at age 106 Rev.
Imaoka was the oldest male resident of metropolitan Tokyo.
58;98. Donald Richie (d. 2013), a resident of Tokyo for over 60
years, wrote ﬁlm and book reviews for The Japan Times and au‐
thored many books, including The Inland Sea, which has been
described as one of the ﬁnest examples of travel-writing in the En‐
glish language. Mr. Richie was an early and prominent proponent of
the generation of Japanese ﬁlm directors who came into their own in
the post-WW2 years, preeminently Akira Kurosawa and Yasujiro
Ozu, who now regularly rank at or near the top in international best-
director and best-ﬁlm polls taken of critics and fellow directors. Ms.
Sims once attended a seminar given by Donald Richie, and when
each participant was asked to introduce him/herself and Ms. Sims
mentioned that she was engaged in writing brief histories of the Baháʼí
Faith in several Asian countries, Mr. Richie compared her to peri‐
patetic writer Isabella Bird, a similitude characteristically clever (but
off mark in this case). Over the years Donald Richie donated many
books to the International House library (see note 29), likely including
the works of Daisetz Suzuki that Ms. Sims looked through.
59;98. It is doubtful Daisetz Suzuki meant that Beatrice Lane
Suzuki was an active member of the Baháʼí community of Japan
when he told Bernard Leach (as reported by Mr. Leach) that his wife
was a Baháʼí. Judging by her writings and activities in Japan, her
interests lay in Buddhism, Japanese culture, and Theosophy. As Ms.
Sims states, Agnes Alexander was acquainted with Beatrice Lane
Suzuki but did not include her in a roll of Baháʼís she compiled.
Beatrice wrote a tribute to her mother, In Memoriam: Emma Erskine
Lane Hahn, 1846-1927, published in Kyoto in 1929, but this editor has
not read the work and does not know to what extent the Baháʼí Faith
is mentioned therein. Although Emma Erskine Hahn spent much time
with her daughter, and passed away, in Japan, Ms. Alexander makes
no mention of her in History of the Baháʼí Faith in Japan. Ms. Hahn
was certainly a member of the Baháʼí Faith in the United States but,
according to a Theosophist source (www.theosophical.org/publica‐
tions/quest-magazine/1254-beatrice-lane-suzuki-an-american-
theosophist-in-japan), along with Beatrice and Daisetz Suzuki joined

a Theosophist Lodge in Japan.
ʻAbduʼl-Bahá spoke before Theosophist audiences during His tour
of the West, and Theosophist publications of the early twentieth
century paid considerable attention to the Baháʼí Faith. There are, it
can be noted, similarities but also very substantial differences be‐
tween Baháʼí and Theosophist tenets.
60;100. There appears to be a mistake here. Ms. Sims writes
that in 1989 she attended a reception and banquet celebrating the
incorporation of the Baháʼí Faith in Hong Kong and then accompanied
ʻAmatuʼl-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum to the dedication of the Baháʼí
Center in Macau immediately afterward. According to Graham
Hassallʼs Hong Kong Baháʼí history (see note 47), the Hong Kong
L.S.A. was incorporated in November 1969, and online public docu‐
ments made available by the Hong Kong government show that the
Hong Kong N.S.A. was incorporated in 1988. According to Ms. Simsʼ
The Macau Baháʼí Community in the Early Years pp. 48, 50, the ﬁrst
Macau Baháʼí Center was opened Naw-Rúz 1969, was however
closed a year later, then a “permanent” Center opened in 1974;
Graham Hassall writes in his Hong Kong history that acquisition of a
Ḥaẓíratuʼl-Quds in Macau was a goal of the Five-Year Plan
1974-1979. According to the Macau governmentʼs “Macao Yearbook
2017”, available online, in 1988 a local Baháʼí Center was established
in the Coloane district of Macau. In The Macau Baháʼí Community
Ms. Sims does not mention Rúḥíyyih Khánum attending any opening
of a Baháʼí Center in Macau, but she writes on page 52 that Rúḥíyyih
Khánumʼs ﬁrst visit to Macau was in 1972, and on pages 60 and 61
that Rúḥíyyih Khánum attended the ﬁrst National Convention of the
Baháʼís of Hong Kong in 1974 and of the Baháʼís of Macau in 1989.
Given the above information, if Ms. Sims has correctly recounted the
year as 1989, perhaps the occasions she is referring to were a
celebration in Hong Kong of the N.S.A. incorporation of the previous
year, followed by the ﬁrst National Convention in Macau, held at the
Baháʼí Center there. In any case, thank goodness Ms. Sims survived
the ﬁrecrackers.
61;103. Those appointed Hand of the Cause who visited Japan
were ʻAmatuʼl-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum, S ͟huʻáʻuʼlláh ʻAláʼí, Agnes
Alexander (resident), ʻAbuʼl-Qásim Fayḍí, Collis Featherstone, ʻAlí-
Akbar Furútan, Paul Haney, D͟hikruʼlláh Khádim, Jalál Kháḍiʻ,

Raḥmatuʼlláh Muhájir, Enoch Olinga, Keith Ransom-Kehler (posthu‐
mously appointed), Charles Mason Remey (visited before appoint‐
ment), John Robarts, Martha Root (posthumously appointed),
Ṭarázuʼlláh Samandarí, Siegfried Schopﬂocher (visited before ap‐
pointment), and William Sears.
62;103. January 19, 2000. Hand of the Cause Ali-Akbar Furutan
passed away in 2003, Hand of the Cause Ali-Muhammad Varqa in
2007.
63;104. This editor recalls in the mid-1990s accompanying Ms.
Sims to Narita Airport to see Mildred Mottahedeh when she stopped
over in Tokyo for one night on her return to the U.S. after a business
trip to China. There was a charisma and gravitas to Ms. Mottahedeh.
Among her administrative distinctions she was a member of the
elected International Baháʼí Council and the ﬁrst representative of the
Baháʼí International Community to the United Nations. In her airport
hotel room Ms. Mottahedeh stunned her visitors when she reached
into her bag and pulled out a vial containing the blood of Baháʼuʼlláh.
64;104. This might be the place to remark that a personal
memoir should not be regarded as self-aggrandizement or horn-
tooting. ʻAbduʼl-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi, and the Universal House of
Justice have each called on Baháʼís to contribute to the historical
record, and personal reminiscences, as much as biographies, com‐
munity histories, general histories, and accounts of particular
episodes or events, are an integral part of that record. It is a fact that
Shoghi Effendi made use of such reminiscences in writing God
Passes By and Nabíl in writing The Dawn-Breakers. Of course the
quality of writing, the tone of humility, the amount and accuracy of
detail, the level of subjectivity/objectivity, indeed the achievements,
the greatness, of the life being recounted in a personal memoir will
vary from writer to writer, but surely every Baháʼí has something to
say and, if so, he/she should not feel unworthy to say it.
65;104. This is probably a reference to what is written in a letter
from May Bolles Maxwell, mother of ʻAmatuʼl-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum
née Mary Maxwell, to Agnes Alexander a year before Maryʼs birth;
see www.bahai-library.com/htu/2000_02.html.
Along with other parts of her account, this section of memories of
individual Baháʼís was not ﬁnished by Ms. Sims. As mentioned in the
foreword, the editor has incorporated into this document reminis‐

cences and other content that Ms. Sims recorded over many years in
a notebook and several loose papers; however, there was little or
nothing in these sources about several Baháʼís she knew, such as
Bill Sears and Shirin Fozdar, about whom she likely would have
written in more detail from memory had she been able to ﬁnish.
66;108. The following passage from ʻAmatuʼl-Bahá Rúḥíyyih
Khánumʼs book The Priceless Pearl (p. 360) refers to Hiroyasu
Takano:
I remember watching the face of the ﬁrst Japanese
Baháʼí pilgrim when Shoghi Effendi, with those wonder‐
fully expressive eyes of his ﬁxed upon him, said that as
the majority of the human race was not white there was
no reason why the majority of Baháʼís should be white.
The emphasis and openness with which Shoghi Effendi
stated this was clearly a revelation to this man from the
Far East who was returning from a protracted stay in the
United States.
See also note 26 herein.
67;108. Kamakura, about 50 kilometers southwest of Tokyo,
was the site of the ﬁrst shogunate, which was established in the late
twelfth century C.E. and lasted about 150 years. The Kamakura
Great Buddha, dating to the shogunate period, is a National Treasure-
designated, bronze, outdoor statue (originally indoor, the building
washed away by a tsunami), rising over 13 meters above ground
level, depicting a sitting Amitabha Buddha. (Precisely speaking the
statue is of Amitabha Tathagata—Jp. 阿弥陀如来 amida nyorai—
according to the governmentʼs designation; see note 33 concerning
Amitabha.) In addition to ʻAmatuʼl-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánum a number of
Baháʼí visitors have viewed the statue over the years, including the
ﬁrst two Iranian believers to set foot in Japan, Hossein Touty in 1932
and Hossein Ouskouli in 1935, who both resided in Shanghai at the
time of their visits. Photos of the two gentlemen posing by the Great
Buddha are in Traces that Remain pp. 36-7 (online here: www.bahai-
library.com/sims_traces_that_remain&chapter=35). (Mr. Ouskouliʼs
daughter Rizvaniyyih was married to Suleiman Suleimani, mentioned
later in this section of the memoir text; they were pioneers in Taiwan
for decades, beginning in 1954.)
The ancient imperial capitals of Nara and Kyoto, in western Japan,

predate Kamakura by centuries. Naraʼs Todaiji Temple contains the
Great Buddha Hall, which holds the worldʼs largest bronze statue of
Buddha (Vairocana). Noh, a performance of which Rúḥíyyih Khánum
attended, is 700-year-old song-and-dance theater. It was patronized
by samurai lords and predated the today better-known kabuki, the
commonersʼ theatrical form.
A digression concerning “Tathagata” mentioned two paragraphs
above (for those readers who might be interested; if not, please return
to the memoir main text p. 108): Some Baháʼí writers on Buddhism
believe this term corresponds to the Baháʼí concept of “Manifesta-
tion”. If tathagata was used by Buddha to describe Himself, that might
be a valid equivalence, although there is no way to know deﬁnitively if
He did—which is to say, the Pali Canon, the earliest extant collection
containing sayings ascribed to Buddha, does not date to earlier than
four or ﬁve centuries after His advent, though He is certainly depicted
referring to Himself as tathagata therein. There has been disagree‐
ment among scholars of Buddhism as to whether tathagata means
“thus come” or “thus gone” (or simply “thusness”). The Japanese
expression for tathagata, 如来 nyorai, is written with two kanji charac‐
ters that mean “thus come”. The Japanese took this expression from
Middle Chinese, in which tathagata was ﬁrst rendered as 如去如来, or
“thus gone thus come”—either the practical Chinese tried to have it
both ways, or they concluded that the original word combined the two
meanings or had one meaning with two aspects (which may be
closest to the early Indian Buddhist idea). This is notable because
Chinese translations of Sanskrit/Pali terms from Buddhism were
informed either by Indian monks who lived in China or by Chinese
monks who lived in India. In Chinese and Japanese literary practice it
is common to shorten multi-character compounds for the sake of
brevity, and so 如去如来 was abbreviated to 如来 (”thus come”) for
reason of convenience, not meaning. While this is the usual explana‐
tion of the term 如来, some scholars disagree: Prof. Hajime
Nakamura (Tokyo University, emeritus 1973, d. 1999), arguably the
leading Japanese expert on Vedic studies and darshana thought and
on early Indian Buddhism, states that tathagata in the ancient belief-
systems of India meant “one thus gone” (in the broader sense of
sarana gamana), or “one who has done good deeds” (in the sense of
sucarita), and in Indian Buddhism took on the meaning of “one who

has attained enlightenment and/or truth”, but that the Chinese, reﬂect‐
ing Mahayanist thinking, chose to emphasize a nuance of “one who
has come to save others or lead others to enlightenment” and so
settled on the characters 如来 (“thus come”). (This is from an un‐
translated 1980 book whose title can be rendered “Buddhaʼs Last
Journey: The Mahaparinibbana Sutta”.) Editorʼs observation: Perhaps
“thus gone thus come”—in the sense of the First and the Last, the
Seen and the Hidden (as found in the Kitáb-i-Íqán, Seven Valleys,
Bayán, originally Qurʼán)—is most appropriate as a translation of
tathagata from a Baháʼí perspective, whatever the original word
exactly meant when it was initially used in Buddhism, which may be
impossible to ever determine.
Further digressively: Scholars have written comparative analyses
of aspects of the Baháʼí Faith and Buddhism, including of ontology.
Although Buddhist ontology is a subject matter which, unlike the Suﬁ
and Neoplatonist, has not been directly addressed by any of the
Central Figures of the Baháʼí Faith and thus there is no edifying
precedent or paradigm with a Baháʼí perspective for comparative
writers to consult, Japan has been a general help in the persons of
multilingual polymaths Daisetz Suzuki, expositor of Zen and other
Mahayanist thought, and Prof. Toshihiko Izutsu (Keio University,
emeritus 1981, d. 1993)—less well-known but wider-ranging than
Suzuki—whose works, preeminently Suﬁsm and Taoism: A Compar‐
ative Study of Key Philosophical Concepts, have been catnip to
comparative religion scholars. Editorʼs observation: Reading studies
that compare aspects of Buddhism and the Baháʼí Faith, one gets the
impression that these are rather heavy on analysis but light on
conclusions; that is, the analysis itself, not any substantive conclu‐
sion, comes across as the point or purpose of the papers.
Judging speciﬁcally from statements of ʻAbduʼl-Bahá and letters
written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, and also inferentially from the
seeming dearth of direct quotations by the Baháʼí Central Figures
from the Holy Writ of the Aryan (Central/South Asian) Manifestations
recognized in the Baháʼí Faith—Buddha, Zoroaster, and Krishna
(leaving aside whether Krishna was Aryan or pre)—it appears that
from a Baháʼí perspective there is little or nothing remaining of the
original revelatory Aryan literary corpus, certainly in comparison to
the revelatory scripture of the Semitic (West Asian) Manifestations

(which itself thins out as one recedes in time).
The existing writings of the Aryan religions might be analogized to
the ﬁgures in ash in ancient Pompeii and Herculaneum in Italy: When
Mount Vesuvius erupted, many of the townsʼ citizens were overcome
by pyroclastic ﬂow or ash, eventually being covered in meters of the
ﬂow or ash, which then hardened. The bodies of the fallen victims,
including the bones, disintegrated from the effects of extreme heat
and chemicals, leaving a body-shaped cavity in the hardened ash.
While from the shape of the cavity in the ash one can get an idea of
the shape of the original body, the body itself is long gone and only
the ash remains. Comparing mid to late nineteenth-century—i.e., the
most recent—revelatory Holy Writ to ancient post-revelatory scrip‐
tures and associated philosophical and mystical writings may be
likened to comparing a living human being to the ancient ash cavity. If
the original ancient body (corpus) is well preserved, then useful
comparative studies with living humans can be conducted, but if only
the cavity in hardened ash exists, then only a largely conjectural and
far less conclusive anatomical comparison can be argued. Perhaps
the most useful kind of comparative study is informational rather than
formally argumentational, an example being the primers that Moojan
Momen has produced on the Baháʼí Faith intended for adherents of
other Faiths, such as Hinduism and the Baháʼí Faith and Buddhism
and the Baháʼí Faith.
68;110. Further to the correspondence of Baháʼí principles and
Japanese values that Ms. Sims here recounts ʻAmatuʼl-Bahá
Rúḥíyyih Khánum discussing: In an ʻIrfán Colloquia paper (online at
www.bahai-library.com/momen_aesthetics_bab) Moojan Momen
posits an aesthetics of the Báb, focusing particularly on His concep‐
tions of perfection and reﬁnement in the arts and crafts, and he aptly
relates the latter conception to Japanese (and Chinese and Iranian)
art in the “attempt to approach the boundary where the physical
becomes so reﬁned as to merge into the spiritual.” Although Momen
restricts the Japanese relation to reﬁnement and does not mention
perfection, the Bábʼs idea, as Momen puts it, of “the spirit within
material things yearning for perfection and the work of the artist and
craftsperson being to enable a thing to reach its perfection” is evoked
in Japanese art and craft in everything from katana—Japanese
swords, the metalwork of which, as any honest artiﬁcer would ac‐

knowledge, is the best of anywhere and any time (so close to perfec‐
tion that it led many a samurai to fetishize his sword, which in turn
may well have led to the ritualization of the use of the sword in the
form of seppuku, i.e., “hara-kiri”)—to washi paper to both the rustic
and reﬁned styles of ceramic-ware to the tea ceremony. Just as
Baháʼís believe that adherence to the laws and principles (“choice
wine”) of the Faith is liberating, in that it bestows insight and con‐
duces to wisdom and mystic realization (see Hidden Words, Persian
no. 62, for example), so the Japanese believe that the mastery—i.e.,
the approach, as close as possible, to perfection—of form and tech-
nique in an art or craft conduces to utter spontaneity and to height‐
ened awareness of the mystery and profoundness of existence.
Another Baháʼí-Japanese correspondence, at the level of practice
rather than principle or values, is what the Japanese call hansei kai,
which can be translated as “reﬂection meeting” and which is an
occasion for consultation after an event or effort to reﬂect on and
evaluate its content and result and incorporate lessons learned from
both successes and failures in future such endeavors—very much
like a Baháʼí cluster-activity-related reﬂection meeting.
A one-paragraph digression: Speaking of “cluster”, what is surely
one of the earliest instances of this word in Baháʼí literature is found in
a 1919 tablet from ʻAbduʼl-Bahá to George and Ruth Augur, then living
in Japan (Japan Will Turn Ablaze p. 19):
These few seeds of corn that ye have sown in that soil
shall lead to luxuriant crops, this limited number of souls
will be converted into great cohorts, nay, rather into an
imposing spiritual army, and that seed, under the Divine
Direction, shall yield abundant and heavy clusters.
Granted, this is a translation, and the use here is apparently meta-
phorical and different from the current use of the term in the Baháʼí
Faith. The term is widely employed in various disciplines of the social
and natural sciences and is replete with meanings; as such it reminds
one of the variegated word “center”, which appears in the communi‐
cations of ʻAbduʼl-Bahá—e.g., Tablets of the Divine Plan, here and
there in the tablets contained in Japan Will Turn Ablaze—and of
Shoghi Effendi—his general letters and letters written on his behalf,
including in Ablaze—in a number of contexts or applications, not
simply referring to a Ḥaẓíratuʼl-Quds. In the Tablets of the Divine Plan

the term “collective center” appears many times in the last of the
tablets and translates jahat-i-jámʻih.)
Although it is a trait rather than a principle, a further Baháʼí-
Japanese correspondence is the sense of shame. Baháʼuʼlláh states
in Kalimát-i-Firdawsíyyih and in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf that
there existeth in man a faculty which deterreth him from,
and guardeth him against, whatever is unworthy and
unseemly, and which is known as his sense of shame.
This, however, is conﬁned to but a few; all have not
possessed, and do not possess, it.
The Japanese deﬁnitely possess a sense of shame, a trait that has
been the subject of scholarly tomes, including Ruth Benedictʼs
classic study The Chrysanthemum and the Sword, published in 1946,
in which she distinguishes between “shame cultures” and “guilt
cultures”. (Inevitably Benedictʼs work has since had its harsh detrac‐
tors in the professional world, mostly social critics and fellow anthro‐
pologists. The fact that her study was commissioned during the
Second World War by the U.S. governmentʼs Ofﬁce of War Informa‐
tion, an agency that was responsible for propaganda among other
things; that fact that she did not know the Japanese language and
that—obviously, being wartime—she did no ﬁeldwork; and the fact
that her study has prescriptive content, and comes across as judg‐
mental here and there, has not helped its critical reception, although
when a translation was issued the Japanese themselves were
impressed, with a few exceptions. It is notable that among the compli‐
mentary comments made by contemporary Japanese writers were
those of Rikihei Inoguchi, a former Imperial Navy ofﬁcer who partici‐
pated in the establishment and initial operations of the Japanese
Special Attack Force—better known as “kamikazes”—during the
Second World War: he states in Roger Pineauʼs The Divine Wind:
Japanʼs Kamikaze Force in World War II p. 214 that Benedictʼs work
is a “careful analysis of Japanese thought” and “reveal[s] a deep
insight as well as understanding.”)
The above Baháʼí-Japanese correspondences are not exhaustive.
One could also mention sincerity and purity of motive; golden silence;
and doing something because it is the right thing to do even if it
involves sacriﬁcing oneʼs own interests, selﬂess sacriﬁce being a
theme in both Baháʼí and Japanese literature. Also, the practice of

ablution: worshippers at Shinto shrines and some Buddhist temples
will wash their hands and rinse their mouths with water as a puriﬁca‐
tion.
It is interesting in the above regard that in tablets of ʻAbduʼl-Bahá
and letters of Shoghi Effendi (see for example bahai9.com/wiki/
Praise_of_character_by_country_and_race), and also in remarks of
Shoghi Effendi recorded in pilgrimsʼ notes and in at least three or four
of ʻAmatuʼl-Bahá Rúḥíyyih Khánumʼs recorded talks given over the
years in different places that this editor recalls hearing or reading,
reference is made to characteristics or qualities exhibited by nations
and ethnic groups. In her biography of Shoghi Effendi, The Priceless
Pearl (pp. 367-8), Rúḥíyyih Khánum quotes him writing of the “highly
differentiated elements of the human race” and “the diversity of
ethnical origins . . . of language and tradition, of thought and habit, that
differentiate the peoples and nations of the world”, and concludes that
“each division of the human race is endowed with gifts of its own
needed to make the new Order of Baháʼuʼlláh diversiﬁed, rich and
perfect.” It seems that just as individuals can evince different combi‐
nations and extents of the divine attributes, so can nations. Of
course, any listing of national characteristics is an exercise in ideal‐
ization: one will not ﬁnd an individual Japanese, for instance, who
anywhere near fully manifests anywhere near all the qualities
Rúḥíyyih Khánum credits the Japanese people as possessing, while
one will deﬁnitely ﬁnd individual Japanese who manifest opposite
qualities. Yet what Rúḥíyyih Khánum says about the Japanese as a
people will ring very true to anyone who is familiar with the values and
principles prevailing in their society and culture.
That said, if there are such things as good national characteristics,
presumably there are bad national characteristics too, as there is no
perfect nation just as there is no perfect individual. In the case of the
Japanese, without going into great detail, one might identify insularity
and an associated tendency to regard themselves as specially
unique and uniquely special, both culturally and racially (even physio‐
logically), a view that has been propounded by philosophers, social
and literary critics, and politicians (and recently at a more simplistic
level on popular television programs), and has even taken a name:
nihonjin ron, or “theory of the Japanese”. Ironically, the more Japan
has Westernized, the more emphatic this polemic has become. This

attitude forms a considerable background noise against which the
universalist aspects of the Baháʼí message must struggle to be
heard. Of course, in stressing in her talks how fully the Japanese
people culturally manifest Baháʼí teachings, Rúḥíyyih Khánum was in
a way highlighting their uniqueness—there are many facets to the
“uniqueness” gem; perhaps ʻAbduʼl-Baháʼs appellation for Kanichi
Yamamoto, the ﬁrst Japanese Baháʼí, “Unique One”, is another.
Lastly, the “47 ronin” were mentioned by Rúḥíyyih Khánum as an
example of ﬁdelity in her list of Japanese qualities. Ronin—lit. “wan‐
dering person(s)”—were samurai who lost the patronage of their lord
either because of his death or fall from power or because he kicked
them out of his castle after they behaved badly. The “47 ronin” refers
to a true incident from the 1700s and subsequently depicted in very
popular kabuki performances and later ﬁlms and television dramas.
Essentially it is a poignant but violent story of a band of samurai
whose lord is forced to commit suicide and who avenge him by killing
his accuser, then commit suicide themselves. While Rúḥíyyih
Khánum, perhaps inﬂuenced by literary or dramatic depictions,
accentuates the positive in the story—the ﬁdelity and sacriﬁce of the
ronin—one could be a bit ornery and comment that the storyʼs popu‐
larity is an example of a Japanese tendency to romanticize episodes
of violent and indulgent behavior on the part of samurai (there being
no shortage of such episodes in history). An aspect of the above-
mentioned nihonjin ron polemic has been an effort to idealize the
samurai and their supposed code of honor and conduct, bushido, “the
warriorʼs way”.
69;112. Rúḥíyyih Khánumʼs letter to Baháʼí youth can be read
online here: www.bahai-library.com/khanum_letter_youth_1948. Ms.
Sims quotes the ﬁrst paragraph.
70;114. Shoghi Effendiʼs letter is found in Baháʼí Administration;
the request for intercession is on page 196.
71;116. Rúḥíyyih Khánumʼs meeting with the Mikasas was
made possible by the aforementioned (note 33) Baháʼí pioneer
Moluke Kazempour Amin-Amin: Prince Mikasa was for many years
the president of the Japan Society of Near Eastern Studies and was
a scholar in that ﬁeld, while Ms. Amin-Amin was for many years a
university Persian-language instructor, and they thus had the oppor‐
tunity to become acquainted. Rúḥíyyih Khánum also met, separately,

with Princess Chichibu, widow of Yasuhito, Prince Chichibu, another
brother of Emperor Hirohito. In one of her recorded talks Rúḥíyyih
Khánum recounts that she mentioned to Princess Chichibu the fact
Baháʼuʼlláh praised constitutional monarchy and that the Princess
was happy to hear this and said she hoped Rúḥíyyih Khánum would
spread the good word about constitutional monarchy to Japanʼs
young people.
Further to Baháʼí contact with the Japanese imperial family: Gifts
and accompanying messages from Shoghi Effendi were presented on
two occasions to Emperor Hirohito (r. 1926-1989) through the Imperi‐
al Household Agency, which manages the affairs of the imperial
family, the presentations enabled by the aforementioned Rokuichiro
Masujima (note 56); see Traces that Remain pp. 81-2. The ﬁrst
presentation of gifts, in the form of books, in 1929, was on the occa‐
sion of the Emperorʼs coronation (which took place in 1928, two years
after he assumed the throne), and Shoghi Effendiʼs message was as
follows:
May the perusal of Baháʼí literature enable Your Imperial
Majesty to appreciate the sublimity and penetrative pow‐
er of Baháʼuʼlláhʼs Revelation and inspire you on this
auspicious occasion to arise for its worldwide recognition
and triumph.
(This editor is not aware of any other reigning monarch, besides
Queen Marie of Romania, who was directly addressed by the
Guardian.) The second message to Emperor Hirohito, which was
cabled and indirect and accompanied gifts, in the form of a calligraph‐
ic arrangement of a passage from the Holy Writings and a Persian
rug, presented by Martha Root in 1930, stated:
Kindly transmit His Imperial Majesty, Tokyo, Japan, on
behalf of myself and Baháʼís world over, expression of
our deepest love as well as assurance of heartfelt
prayers for his well-being, and prosperity of his ancient
realm.
As Ms. Sims points out in Traces that Remain, Hirohito became the
longest reigning sovereign in Japanʼs history and, of course, Japan
has certainly prospered. The phrase “ancient realm” is particularly
apt, considering the fact that Japan has the oldest continuous, heredi‐
tary monarchy in the world. In October of 1967 a special edition of

The Proclamation of  Baháʼuʼlláh was presented by the Universal
House of Justice to over one hundred heads of state, including
Emperor Hirohito. The message of the House of Justice to the Em‐
peror, accompanying the book, was as follows:
Your Imperial Majesty,
The weakening in this century of political, social, and
religious structures with its consequent insecurity has
provoked a fever which rages through the body of
mankind. We believe that the central message of this
book and its weighty pronouncements on world peace
and the re-ordering of human affairs will commend them‐
selves to Your Imperial Majestyʼs serious consideration,
and in pursuance of our bounden duty we earnestly
entreat you not to set it lightly aside.
We beg to assure Your Imperial Majesty of our fer‐
vent prayers for your welfare and that of your country.
Lastly, on the Ainu, mentioned in the main text, see note 17 and
note 73. Buraku (or burakumin) refers to a social outcast group by
occupation: basically, they did work that no one else would. Some of
those occupations have disappeared and some have not, and al‐
though such segregation by occupation does not exist today formally
or legally in Japan, many persons of buraku descent today are
engaged in work that is “traditionally” theirs. Some burakumin have
made an effort to “pass” and others have not, but in any case it is
possible by a familyʼs ancestral or current place of residence and
Japanʼs family register system (and underground publications as well,
discreetly consulted by employers and by families before betrothal) to
determine buraku descent, and discrimination on that basis persists
in Japanese society. It is quite remarkable that Rúḥíyyih Khánum
brought up this subject, in the context of her visits to Baháʼí house‐
holds, in her talk with the Mikasas, and noteworthy that they ex‐
pressed interest and understanding.
72;121. Many a pioneer had the bounty of receiving from Mr.
Samandari a beautifully calligraphed Greatest Name with a personal‐
ized message written at the bottom. In Iran Muhajirʼs biography of her
husband, Dr. Muhajir: Hand of the Cause and Knight of Baháʼuʼlláh,
on page 637, a photo taken in Manila, the Philippines shows Mr.
Samandari drawing the Greatest Name that was presented to Ms.

Sims, as Dr. and Iran Muhajir look on. At the time, in 1966, Mr.
Samandari was in the midst of an extended tour of East Asia. His
base for the tour was Japan, and long-time pioneer to Japan Ruhollah
Momtazi served as his assistant on the tour and asked him to draw
Greatest Names for Ms. Sims and others believers; Mr. Momtazi took
the photo while Mr. Samandari was at work. The Momtazi home has a
dining-table-sized version of the Greatest Name in the margin of
which Mr. Samandari has inscribed a quotation from a tablet ʻAbduʼl-
Bahá wrote to his father, Apostle of Baháʼuʼlláh Shaykh Káẓim-i-
Samandar, in which the Master states that He is instructing
Samandarʼs son Ṭarázuʼlláh in calligraphy during the latterʼs stay in
the Holy Land.
73;127. There is viewable online a ﬁlm entitled “A New Wind”
dating to 1969 (probably shot 1967-8) and directed by famed docu‐
mentary-maker George C. Stoney, produced under the auspices of
the U.S. N.S.A., about the Baháʼí Faith and showing believers in the
U.S. and around the world, including G.V. Tehrani at his pioneer post
in Sapporo, the largest city in the northernmost Japanese main island
of Hokkaido. Among those appearing in the Hokkaido segments of
the ﬁlm are Yoshio Sasaki, one of the ﬁrst two persons to accept the
Faith in Hokkaido; Takeichi Moritake, Ainu village headman and poet;
Chief Moritakeʼs son Kazutomo Umegae, who later was appointed
Auxiliary Board Member and served in that capacity for over 20
years; and pioneer Ruhollah Momtazi and son of pioneers Foad
Katirai, who are shown visiting Mr. Tehrani and Japanese believers at
the Sapporo Baháʼí Center. The ﬁlm can be viewed here:
www.youtube.com/watch?v=xskjnJ2bjd4&list=UUvBlfym0s‐
L8xqMlPLfJTatg&index=2. Critical note: The documentary style is
mostly “ﬂy-on-the-wall”, but some scenes appear to be heavily
directed if not staged—the bowing and hand-waving in the Japan
segments seem a bit excessive. The moving ﬁnal scene of the ﬁlm
shows Mr. Tehrani at prayer, with the narrator reciting the English
translation (the last verses of the Medium Obligatory Prayer).
G.V. (Ghodratullah Vahid, or Qudratuʼlláh Vaḥíd) Tehrani, a
devoted believer and a widower, asked the Guardian during pilgrim‐
age where he should go to pioneer and was told Japan. He was in his
late 50s when he arrived in Japan, where he lived for about ten years,
and was largely responsible for the establishment of a Spiritual

Assembly in Sapporo. He later taught the Faith in various countries.
(Thanks to Zafar Moghbel for providing Mr. Tehraniʼs full name.)
On the Ainu see note 17. Chief Moritake and Mr. Umegae were
ﬁrst attracted to the Faith during a teaching trip to Hokkaido undertak‐
en by Ruhollah Momtazi and Gekie Nakajima in 1957, a trip that also
resulted in Mr. Sasaki accepting the Faith. Chief Moritake and son
and several other persons of Ainu descent formally became Baháʼís
in 1961 during a teaching trip to Hokkaido by pioneer Muhammad
Labib. (On Muhammad Labib see note 14.)
74;130. Aside from those belonging (for the most part) to sever‐
al of the comparatively new Buddhist sects and some Christian
denominations, the Japanese today do not actively teach a meta‐
physical belief-system to others; indeed, although they may occa‐
sionally visit a temple or shrine, and arranging Buddhist rites for
departed loved ones is common, many Japanese do not (or claim
they do not) adhere to a metaphysical belief-system beyond a nomi‐
nal level. The Japanese are, however, very much a metaphysically-
attuned people, and there have been episodes of mass religious
conversion (or adoption) in Japanese history, dating to hundreds of
years ago, such as when the Buddhist Pure Land sect (see note 33)
and Christianity were ﬁrst established in the country. For that matter,
the imperial family participates in Shinto-based ceremonies and rituals
that include communion with deities.
The general reticence about teaching belief-systems to others has
perhaps held back teaching by Japanese Baháʼís. Teaching can be a
challenge for the pioneers as well, because the Japanese people
believe themselves to be irreligious, at least with regard to theological,
or more precisely monotheistic, tenets and tend to be wary of any‐
thing they regard as proselytizing; also, much time and effort must be
devoted by pioneers to making a living in what is a hard-driving,
highly competitive, expensive economy. Of course, Dr. Muhajir
understood this—as would have ʻAbduʼl-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi—
and his point is as sharp now as when he made it decades ago.
75;132. Ms. Sims once told this editor that she did not take
words of praise from the Hands of the Cause or other persons as
anything other than good cheer. She said it was ultimately Baháʼuʼlláh
Who would adjudge the merit and achievements of her life and ser‐
vice. She added that it was nevertheless nice to hear the kind words,

that she knew of many pioneers around the world, including others in
Japan, who beneﬁted greatly from kind words of comfort, inspiration,
and praise offered by the Hands, and that such kindness was a
sustaining potion for pioneers.
The prime examples of words of sustenance and encouragement
to pioneers are surely the letters written by Shoghi Effendi, or the
handwritten postscripts he would add to letters composed on his
behalf and typed by his secretaries. The book Japan Will Turn
Ablaze, and other such compilations as well, contain a number of
these. (A collection of such postscripts would make for inspiring
reading.) A short note found in Ablaze (p. 99), appended by Shoghi
Effendi to a letter written on his behalf by Leroy Ioas in January 1956
to the Local Spiritual Assembly of Hyogo, which consisted entirely of
pioneers, might be considered as ringing out to all pioneers every‐
where of any time:
May the Almighty remove all obstacles from your path,
enable you to lend a great impetus to the onward march
of His Faith, and contribute to the consolidation of His
institutions. Your true brother, Shoghi.
Not only pioneers were beneﬁciaries. The following is from earlier in
this memoir, a postscript to a letter written on Shoghi Effendiʼs behalf
in 1926 to the L.S.A. of Berkeley, California, U.S.A.:
I wish to add a few words in order to assure you in per‐
son of my prayers for the success of your efforts to
promote and consolidate our beloved Cause. May our
Beloved cheer you, strengthen you and guide you in
your labours for Him. Your true brother, Shoghi.
And this (ibid. p. 58; originally History of the Baháʼí Faith in Japan p.
75) added in his handwriting at the end of a letter written on his behalf
in 1928 to Agnes Alexander:
I wish to assure you in person of my eagerness to hear
from you regularly, frequently and in detail, of my contin‐
ued prayers for you, and of my sense of pride and satis‐
faction in view of your devoted and pioneer services in
that promising country. Though trials, test, anxieties, and
cares beset your path, yet you should never falter in
your hope that eventually, through you and those who
after you will tread your path, the sovereignty of

Baháʼuʼlláh will be ﬁrmly established in that land and your
heartʼs desire will in the end be fulﬁlled. Your true and
affectionate brother, Shoghi.
Ms. Alexander wrote of another of Shoghi Effendiʼs postscripts
(Ablaze p. 54; originally History p. 52):
The words penned by his hand at the end of the letter so
affected me that for several days my heart was ﬁlled with
joy and inspiration, and a realization came to me of the
power with which God had endowed him.
76;132. Enoch Olingaʼs dream is mentioned on page 643 of Iran
Muhajirʼs biography of her husband, Dr. Muhajir: Hand of the Cause
and Knight of Baháʼuʼlláh. The biography is impressive for its breadth,
reﬂecting Dr. Muhajirʼs vast, global arena of service. It is especially
interesting for the extensive use of its subjectʼs diaries and of testimo‐
nials and reminiscences of many Baháʼís around the world. (There
are mistakes in the section on Japan, and elsewhere, perhaps
inevitable in a book of such scope.)
77;133. Through the encouragement of Hands of the Cause
Furutan and Muhajir and others, a large number of university-age
Iranian Baháʼís pioneered to East Asia, among other regions of the
world.
78;134. Confer the verses ascribed to the Imám ʻAlí, cousin and
son-in-law of the Prophet Muḥammad, quoted by Baháʼuʼlláh in the
Seven Valleys:
Dost thou reckon thyself only a puny form
When within thee the universe is folded?
The verses are from one of Imám ʻAlíʼs narrations and poems in the
“Díwán” anthology.
79;140. Jenabe Caldwell was a Knight of Baháʼuʼlláh for the
Aleutian Islands, Alaska, U.S.A. and also pioneered in Mexico and
Japan. He is remembered in various countries for his mass-teaching
activities, and in Japan in particular for his intensive, and intense,
deepenings. He passed away in Hawaii in 2016.
80;140. Other House of Justice members to have visited Japan
are Farzam Arbab (before he became a member), and Ali Nakhjavani
(retired), who toured for four weeks in 2012.
81;144. Beth McKenty served as an Auxiliary Board member in
the United States and late in her life pioneered in Nunavut, in the far

north of Canada, where she ran arts programs for kids, an effort that
gained media coverage and was awarded by the Governor-General.
In her younger years Ms. McKenty introduced famed jazz trumpet
player Dizzy Gillespie to the Baháʼí Faith, and, together with Nancy
Jordan, assisted the family of civil rights activist Rev. Martin Luther
King in various ways—answering the phone and mail, handling
incoming telegrams and cables, dealing with the news media—in the
aftermath of his assassination. This came about because Ms.
McKenty had earlier befriended Rev. Kingʼs mother while she and Ms.
Jordan were in the U.S. South visiting Baháʼís and teaching, and after
the assassination she and Ms. Jordan attended the vigil for Rev. King
at the Ebenezer Baptist Church—at which Ms. McKenty recited
ʻAbduʼl-Baháʼs Prayer for America—and offered their services to his
family through his mother. Ms. McKenty traveled in Africa and Europe
to teach the Faith, and on the homefront, among other services, wrote
articles on the Faith for non-Baháʼí publications (such as Ebony
magazine), and proﬁles (such as of Ali Yazdi and of Wyatt Cooper,
landscaper/gardener at the Wilmette Temple and Green Acre School
and close friend of the True family and Saichiro Fujita) and eulogies
(such as of Grace Anderson of Kenosha, Wisconsin, “one of the ﬁrst
American Baháʼís reared in a Baháʼí home”: www.bahai-library.com/
mckenty_grace_anderson) for Baháʼí publications. Beth McKenty
passed away in Ottawa in September 2017. (Thanks to Ms.
McKentyʼs sister Mary Prough and her correspondents, including
Nancy Jordan, for the information about helping Rev. Kingʼs family.)
82;145. The quotations are from Selections from the Writings of
the Báb pp. 94, 210; Tablets of Baháʼuʼlláh Revealed After the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas pp. 24-5; and the U.S. prayerbook under “Families”, an extract
from a tablet of ʻAbduʼl-Bahá that refers to intercession in behalf of
oneʼs parents. In her copy of Selections Ms. Sims has marked the
quoted passages in pencil with the word “Parents”.
In the Tablet of the Fast (Lawḥ-i-Ṣíyám, Gleanings no. cxxxviii) is
the supplication:
Forgive us, and our fathers, and our mothers, and fulﬁll
whatsoever we have desired from the ocean of Thy
grace and divine generosity.
Concerning parents, Baháʼuʼlláh states in the Questions and Answers
appendix of the published Kitáb-i-Aqdas (pp. 136-7):

The fruits that best beﬁt the tree of human life are trust‐
worthiness and godliness, truthfulness and sincerity; but
greater than all, after recognition of the unity of God,
praised and gloriﬁed be He, is regard for the rights that
are due to oneʼs parents. This teaching hath been men‐
tioned in all the Books of God, and reafﬁrmed by the
Most Exalted Pen. Consider that which the Merciful Lord
hath revealed in the Qurʼán, exalted are His words:
“Worship ye God, join with Him no peer or likeness; and
show forth kindliness and charity towards your parents.”
Observe how loving-kindness to oneʼs parents hath
been linked to the recognition of the one true God! . . .
Following are comments by the editor on the ﬁnal paragraph of
the memoir text (page 145 herein), particularly ʻAbduʼl-Baháʼs prophe‐
cy “Japan will turn ablaze!”
A prayer of Baháʼuʼlláh reveals that the “Fire” which God has
kindled
blazeth and rageth in the world of creation
and that
all the peoples of the world are powerless to resist its
force.
In Gleanings it is written:
Let thy soul glow with the ﬂame of this undying Fire that
burneth in the midmost heart of the world . . .
This must be the Fire that will turn Japan and the entire planet ablaze.
In addition to “Japan will turn ablaze”, ʻAbduʼl-Bahá states that
the Fire of the love of God shall assuredly set Japan
aﬁre
and that
in Japan the divine proclamation will be heard as a
formidable explosion
and that
Japan is endowed with a most remarkable capacity for
the spread of the Cause of God! Japan with (another
country whose name He stated but bade us conceal it
for the present) will take the lead in the spiritual reawak‐
ening of the peoples and the nations that the world shall
soon witness.

ʻAbduʼl-Baháʼs statements quoted above are contained in the ﬁrst two
letters the Guardian wrote to the Baháʼí community of Japan and in a
tablet of ʻAbduʼl-Bahá to a group of Japanese students, found in the
compilation Japan Will Turn Ablaze! (pp. 38, 73-5).
There are several national communities besides Japan, notably
Iran and the United States, concerning which remarkable prophecies
of a bright future exist in Baháʼí literature—for that matter, the entire
planet is promised a golden future. Speciﬁcally regarding the other
country that together with Japan will, according to the above
quotation, “take the lead in the spiritual reawakening” of the world:
Agnes Alexander expressed the view to Ms. Sims and to other
Baháʼís that it was probably the United States, on the basis of the
destiny given that nation in the Tablets of the Divine Plan; in an article
entitled “Spiritual axis: ʻA powerful magnetʼ” in the May 1983 issue of
the U.S. Baháʼí News (see note 48), then Australasian Board of
Counsellors member Peter Khan suggests Australia, on the basis of
the polar positions occupied by that country and Japan on the Paciﬁc
spiritual axis; this editor recalls two or three other countries being
conjectured in conversations among Baháʼís, including China, on the
basis that it is invariably mentioned in tandem with Japan in the
Tablets of the Divine Plan.
From what this editor has heard and read, there are some Baháʼís
who appear to believe that the prophecies of “turn ablaze” and
“formidable explosion” relating to Japan are to be understood literally
as referring to physical phenomena as well as ﬁguratively as referring
to spiritual phenomena. It is perhaps inevitable that some persons
see some sort of signiﬁcance, even an irony, in the use of the terms
“ablaze” and “explosion” in tablets and letters from the Holy Land to
the Baháʼís in a country that was to suffer strategic bombing in a
world war. In the case of “formidable explosion”, the entire sentence
in ʻAbduʼl-Baháʼs tablet (Japan Will Turn Ablaze p. 38) reads
In Japan the divine proclamation will be heard as a
formidable explosion, so that those who are ready will
become uplifted and illumined by the Light of the Sun of
Truth.
Those who would relate this sentence literally to the Hiroshima and
Nagasaki atomic bombings (as, for instance, Gary L. Matthews
seems to in his The Challenge of Baháʼuʼlláh p. 73) might explain

precisely how nuclear detonations over cities denote a “divine procla‐
mation”. It can be pointed out here that the “ablaze” prophecy is
recounted by Shoghi Effendi in a letter written by him in his capacity
as Guardian, while the “explosion” prophecy is not referred to by the
Guardian in his published letters to Japan and is from a tablet of
ʻAbduʼl-Bahá translated by someone other than Shoghi Effendi.
Certainly physical calamity can beget spiritual receptivity. In the
account of Japanese pilgrim Hiroyasu Takano (see note 26), Shoghi
Effendi is recalled stating that Japanʼs suffering in the Second World
War qualiﬁes it to be both a radiating and attracting center of the
Cause. Further in this regard, according to an August 1952 letter
written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi (Japan Will Turn Ablaze p. 92) the
people of Hiroshima
have a special right . . . to hear of Baháʼuʼlláhʼs Message
of peace and brotherhood.
This is not, however, the same thing as saying that the divine procla‐
mation and formidably exploding bombs come in a set.
ʻAbduʼl-Bahá has stated (to paraphrase) that every thing or phe‐
nomenon in the physical world has an equivalent in the spiritual world.
Perhaps it is better to understand “ablaze” and “explosion” in the
Japan instance entirely metaphorically as referring to a spiritual
reality, a strictly “spiritual” inferno and blast—in the same way that
references to blaring trumpets in the holy scriptures of several reli‐
gions do not necessarily bespeak a person wearing a robe and a
ﬂowing beard blowing on a curved or straight brass or other metal
tube of conical or cylindrical bore with a cup-shaped mouthpiece at
one end and a ﬂared bell at the other and with or without valves for
pitch variation.
The Guardian in his letter mentioning the “turn ablaze” prophecy
(ibid. p. 73) says that it is
the most emphatic, the most inspiring [of those] promises
He [ʻAbduʼl-Bahá] gave us all regarding the future of the
Cause in that land [Japan]
and that the realization of that promise would be a “glorious day”—no
hint of actual exploding bombs accompanying a divine proclamation,
nothing to hang such an inference on. The ﬁgurative welkin ringing,
not actual bombs bursting (or trumpets blaring), seems the point.
ʻAbduʼl-Bahá has addressed other prophetic, or portentous,

statements to Japanese persons. The well-known comments made in
Paris to the Japanese ambassador to Spain, found in Sara
Blomﬁeldʼs The Chosen Highway pp. 183-4 (the ambassadorʼs name,
Minoji Arakawa—荒川巳次—is misspelled there) are an example:
Scientiﬁc discoveries have increased material
civilization. There is in existence a stupendous force, as
yet, happily, undiscovered by man. Let us supplicate
God, the Beloved, that this force be not discovered by
science until spiritual civilization shall dominate the hu‐
man mind. In the hands of men of lower material nature,
this  power  would  be able  to  destroy  the  whole  earth.
This echoes the foreboding statement found in Baháʼuʼlláhʼs Kalimát-i-
Firdawsíyyih:
Strange and astonishing things exist in the earth but they
are hidden from the minds and the understanding of men.
These things are capable of changing the whole atmo‐
sphere of the earth and their contamination would prove
lethal.
From what this editor has heard and read, most Baháʼís who have
taken note of these passages believe that they refer to some mani‐
festation of nuclear energy, nor has it escaped attention that ʻAbduʼl-
Baháʼs comments were addressed to a representative of the
Japanese government. Compared to the “ablaze” and “explosion”
prophecies these statements more clearly portend a physical evince‐
ment, but in their contexts they are not directly related to the divine
proclamation: Baháʼuʼlláhʼs statement immediately follows a reference
to the Lesser Peace and immediately precedes what is apparently a
reference to electrical telegraphy; ʻAbduʼl-Baháʼs statement is in the
context of references to social issues and the harmony of religion and
science.
The following, an extract from an early tablet of ʻAbduʼl-Bahá
(January 1903; Japan Will Turn Ablaze p. 22) to the ﬁrst Japanese
Baháʼí, Kanichi Yamamoto, is interesting, although what it may
portend is open to question:
Know, verily, that the Ocean is waving, the Sun shining,
the Stars dawning. (Understand what I say!)
It would be helpful to know if this statement was in speciﬁc response
to something Mr. Yamamoto asked. A straightforward interpretation is

that this refers to some sort of relationship between Japan and the
United States, whether a Baháʼí connection or, on the other hand, the
1940s Paciﬁc conﬂict between Japan and the Allies, predominantly
the U.S.A., in the course of the Second World War—but, as with the
“formidable explosion” prophecy, that is surely looking at it simplisti‐
cally. Like any divinely-inspired prophecy this assuredly has several
layers of signiﬁcance: “ocean” in the Baháʼí Writings seems to have
any number of ﬁgurative meanings, including the Faith itself and the
spiritual medium in which the Ark of the Cause moves, and terms
such as “sun” and “moon” and “stars” have manifold symbolisms, as
the Kitáb-i-Íqán makes clear. Incidentally, this is one of the more
allusive of ʻAbduʼl-Baháʼs tablets found in Japan Will Turn Ablaze, and
there are interpretative footnotes attached to its text in Ablaze: these
footnotes were not written by Barbara Sims, compiler of Ablaze, but
rather copied by her together with the main text; they are probably the
work of the editors of Tablets of Abdul-Baha Abbas Vol. III, where the
tablet was originally published.
According to the ontologically oriented Baháʼí and Bábí Writings
there is a “book” for every instance of divinely willed and decreed
destiny, and perhaps a prophecy is a case in which that book is
quoted from. A foreknowledge of sufﬁcient effort made by the Baháʼís
toward their fulﬁllment must be a premise of prophecies, i.e., the
sufﬁcient effort is an “apriority”. This editor remembers a talk given by
a Baháʼí in which it was suggested that how “golden” the Golden Age
of the Cause is to be depends on how great an effort the believers
make in the Formative Age. The interrelationship of destiny as de‐
creed, and prophesied, and effort made toward its fulﬁllment is cer‐
tainly mysterious. Complicating the matter is that no commentary on a
prophecy other than that offered by an infallible interpretative authority
can be considered complete and reliable, and such an authority no
longer exists.
Shoghi Effendi never referred to the “turn ablaze” prophecy again
in his communications, although later letters written on his behalf
speak of a bright future, e.g. (Japan Will Turn Ablaze p. 93):
The beloved Guardian has said that the future of Japan
from every standpoint is very bright indeed. The Faith will
spread rapidly in Japan, once the public become ac‐
quainted with its universal principles, and its dynamic

spirit.
From what this editor has heard and read, some persons seem to
think either that the opportunity to turn ablaze has been lost or that the
prophecy refers to some time in the far future. Surely it is not a good
idea to presume any timetable or limit to the operation of Godʼs Will.
Irrespective of speciﬁc prophecies, the tablets and letters of the
Central Figures and the Guardian make clear that a maximum effort
to teach and proclaim the Dispensation is both an existential and
social necessity, this toward the fulﬁllment of what is the fundamental
and abiding destiny of the human race: the acceptance and establish‐
ment of the Cause of the Manifestation of God—what so many
persons in every era, including thousands of pioneers in this age,
have dedicated their lives to promoting.
* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *