THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1986-10-12

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

dear b ahá’í f riends,

The above statement which was sent to you with our covering letter of

21 february 1986 has been revised by the office of public information and

of justice, we enclose a copy of the revised statement, which supersedes the

previous one.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

Apartheid: A Bahá’í View

A little more than a hundred years ago, bahá’u’lláh, founder of the bahá’í

faith, declared that mankind was entering upon a new era in its history

when accelerating processes of unification would soon compel universal rec-ognition that humanity is one single race, one distinct species. he appealed 5.1

6.1

6.2

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

8to the peoples of the world to accept this central truth and to set aside the

barriers of race, nationality, and culture which have been principal causes

of war throughout history. There is, he said, no possibility of achievement

of world peace until the fundamental principle of unity has been accepted

and given practical effect in the organization of society.

consequently, from the time of its inception more than a century ago,

the bahá’í world community has been characterized by the integration of

the many religious, racial, ethnic, cultural, linguistic and national elements which it comprises. marriage between persons of different ethnic, and

cultural backgrounds, and particularly between black and white bahá’ís,

is warmly encouraged in the bahá’í scriptures. in order to make certain

that those members who suffer discrimination in society as a whole are not prevented from full participation in the life of the community, the bahá’í

teachings contain certain administrative principles which are designed to overcome the handicaps created by social inequalities. for example, where a

tie vote has been cast in a bahá’í community election or where two or more

believers are equally qualified for a particular office, priority is given as a

matter of principle to the one representing the disadvantaged or oppressed

sector of society.

it is these principles which have guided the bahá’ís in South Africa since

the opening years of this century. when the apartheid laws made it illegal

for certain local groups, including elected bahá’í Spiritual Assemblies, to

contain members from different racial backgrounds, it was the white bahá’ís

who surrendered the privilege of elected membership so that the principle

of giving priority to disadvantaged segments of society could continue to

prevail. except for these local decision-making bodies whose membership

was explicitly limited by civil law, bahá’í meetings in South Africa have been

racially integrated, a fact well known to the civil authorities.

beyond attempting to provide an encouraging example of racial integra-

tion, the bahá’í community in South Africa has devoted much of its energy

to the inculcation of bahá’í principles related to the oneness of mankind

and on the development of a sense of self-worth and of social responsibility

in the individual. parallel with these activities has been a program aimed

at training Spiritual Assemblies in principles of consultation and problem-

solving. bahá’ís are particularly proud of the results of this effort because

through it black believers have assumed the highest elective and appointive offices in the community.6.3

6.4

6.5

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

9This historical background points up the bahá’í conviction that solutions

to situations such as that which prevails in South Africa must draw on the

force of example. fundamental changes in social attitude will be most read-

ily achieved if the relevant spiritual and moral principles are courageously

set forth and if men and women of good will can see others attempting successfully to give these ideals practical expression in individual and com-

munity life.

violating as it does the very honor of humanity, the system of apartheid

arouses in peoples of all nations and cultures deep feelings of abhorrence.

bahá’ís share these feelings particularly keenly. The moral challenge which

the situation represents, however, has now become intertwined with parti-san political concerns. So complete is this interrelationship that the issues in the conflict are inextricable from one another: social protest originating in

moral outrage has assumed the character of political action.

it is natural that it should do so, given the adversary principle that char-

acterizes our political traditions throughout the world. but political action,

in the absence of conditions for genuine consultation, in which partisan interests are subordinated to the interests of the whole, will not itself bring

an enduring resolution of problems as serious as those convulsing South Africa. however difficult the task and however disheartening the present

situation may seem, segments of South African society who believe full

integration to be the fundamental issue face the challenge of focusing their

efforts on creating such conditions. This is a moral imperative as urgent as any other motivating peoples of good will who seek to free South Africa

from its terrible burden.

bahá’ís are required by the teachings of their faith to refrain from in-

volvement in partisan political activity and civil disorder. This is true

whether such activity is a response to racial oppression, as is generally the

case in South Africa, or to more widespread attempts to keep people divided

and vulnerable such as the persecution of religious belief, the suppression of women, or the denial of political freedom. The hard-won experience of bahá’ís under all these conditions convinces them beyond any doubt that

humanity can learn to live as one family and that all the forces of contempo-rary history are rapidly impelling the race in this direction. The pressure of these forces is inescapable; eventually even South Africa will respond. The

quality of that response, and its speed, will depend as much on spiritual and

moral conditions as it will on economic and political ones.6.6

6.7

6.8

6.9

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

107

Equality of Women and Men

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]