Guidelines for
Local Spiritual
Assemblies
Developing Distinctive
Bahá'í Communities
National Spiritual Assembly
of the Bahá'ís of the United States

Office of Assembly Development, Evanston, Illinois 60201
Copyright © 2009 by the National Spiritual Assembly
of the Bahá'ís of the United States
All rights reserved.
Revised 2010, 2011, 2014, 2015, 2016
Published in the United States of America

FOREWORD
Originally created in 1989, this manual, formerly known as Developing Distinctive Bahá’í
Communities: Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies, has been a standard reference for current
guidance related to the administration of justice by Local Spiritual Assemblies. It is designed to
facilitate their consultations and efforts to apply spiritual and administrative principles to the
situations before them.
The National Spiritual Assembly strongly encourages all Local Spiritual Assemblies to access and
use the most current version of the manual in preparation for and during Assembly meetings, in
addition to deepening their own understanding of the guidance. The Assemblies are also asked to
ensure that each of their members know how to access the manual for their own use.
Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies is available in electronic form only. Printing the complete
manual is discouraged, as updates are made frequently. With each new release, all previous versions
are out of date and should be deleted. If possible, the Assembly may want to take steps to ensure
that there is a computer available during meetings so that unanticipated research can be done. Any
costs that might be incurred would be a legitimate expenditure of the Assembly.
The National Assembly trusts that Local Spiritual Assemblies will find this manual useful in the
vital work they are doing for their communities. Should any questions arise related to the manual,
please feel free to contact the Office of Assembly Development directly by email at oad@usbnc.org
or by telephone at 847-733-3593.
NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY OF THE
BAHÁ'ÍS OF THE UNITED STATES

1. FOUNDATION AND RELATIONSHIPS OF THE LOCAL ASSEMBLY .......................................................................3
SPIRITUAL FOUNDATION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER ...............................................................................3
UNIQUENESS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER ...............................................................................................3
BASIC ADMINISTRATIVE UNIT OF BAHÁ’U’LLÁH’S WORLD ORDER ..................................................................4
EVOLUTION OF THE ASSEMBLY ...........................................................................................................................5
Building the Assembly’s Capacity .........................................................................................................................6
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE INSTITUTION AND ITS MEMBERS ......................................................................7
DYNAMIC FLOW BETWEEN THE THREE PARTICIPANTS IN THE PLAN ..............................................................8
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE ASSEMBLY AND THE INDIVIDUAL ...................................................................9
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE ASSEMBLY AND THE COMMUNITY ............................................................... 11
The Assembly ..................................................................................................................................................... 11
The Bahá’í Community ...................................................................................................................................... 12
Obedience to the Assembly ........................................................................................................................... 12
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE ASSEMBLY AND NEIGHBORING BAHÁ'Í COMMUNITIES ........................... 14
Assembly Participation in the Cluster ................................................................................................................ 15
Reflection Gatherings .................................................................................................................................... 16
Bahá'í Groups and Isolated Believers ............................................................................................................... 16
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE LOCAL AND NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES ...................................... 17
Authority and Jurisdiction of National Spiritual Assembly.................................................................................. 17
Local Assembly Upholds and Supports the National Spiritual Assembly ...................................................... 17
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE LOCAL ASSEMBLY AND THE REGIONAL BAHÁ’Í COUNCIL ....................... 18
Establishment and Purpose of Regional Bahá’í Council ................................................................................... 18
Agencies of the Regional Bahá’í Council .......................................................................................................... 19
Area Teaching Committee ............................................................................................................................. 20
Regional Training Institute ............................................................................................................................. 21
Regional Councils Do Not Handle Matters of Personal Status ......................................................................... 21
Regional Councils Establish Cluster Boundaries .............................................................................................. 21
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN ELECTED AND APPOINTED INSTITUTIONS ........................................................ 22
International Teaching Center ............................................................................................................................ 22
Continental Boards of Counselors ..................................................................................................................... 23
Auxiliary Board Members .................................................................................................................................. 24
Auxiliary Board Members for Propagation..................................................................................................... 26
Auxiliary Board Members for Protection ........................................................................................................ 26
Assisting Local Spiritual Assemblies ............................................................................................................. 27
Referring Matters to Auxiliary Board Members.............................................................................................. 28
Auxiliary Board Members May Not Be Present When Assembly Takes Decisions ................................... 28
Assembly Meeting Minutes May Be Shared with Auxiliary Board Members ............................................. 28
Assistants to Auxiliary Board Members ............................................................................................................. 28
Assistants Can Serve on Administrative Institutions ................................................................................. 29
Do Not Function as Assistants When Acting as Member of Administrative Body ..................................... 30
Counselors and Board Members Determine Manner of Support .................................................................. 30
Service of Counselors and Board Members on Administrative Institutions ................................................... 30
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE LOCAL ASSEMBLY AND THE WIDER COMMUNITY .................................... 31
Assemblies are Channels of God’s Grace ......................................................................................................... 31
Public Face of the Local Bahá’í Community ...................................................................................................... 32
Revised April 2016

Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
1. FOUNDATION AND RELATIONSHIPS OF
THE LOCAL ASSEMBLY
SPIRITUAL FOUNDATION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE
ORDER
Let no one, while this System is still in its infancy, misconceive its character, belittle its significance, or
misrepresent its purpose. The bedrock on which this Administrative Order is founded is God’s immutable
Purpose for mankind in this day. ... Its consummation the advent of that golden millennium — the Day when
the kingdoms of this world shall have become the Kingdom of God Himself, the Kingdom of Bahá’u’lláh.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 156-157
Few will fail to recognize that the Spirit breathed by Bahá'u'lláh upon the world ... can never permeate and
exercise an abiding influence upon mankind unless and until it incarnates itself in a visible Order, which
would bear His name, wholly identify itself with His principles, and function in conformity with His laws.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 19
Bahá’u’lláh ... has not only imbued mankind with a new and regenerating Spirit. He has not merely
enunciated certain universal principles, or propounded a particular philosophy, however potent, sound and
universal these may be. In addition to these He, as well as Άbdu'l-Bahá after Him, has, unlike the
Dispensations of the past, clearly and specifically laid down a set of Laws, established definite institutions,
and provided for the essentials of a Divine Economy. These are destined to be a pattern for future society, a
supreme instrument for the establishment of the Most Great Peace, and the one agency for the unification of
the world, and the proclamation of the reign of righteousness and justice upon the earth.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 19
UNIQUENESS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER
The world’s equilibrium hath been upset through the vibrating influence of this most great, this new World
Order. Mankind’s ordered life hath been revolutionized through the agency of this unique, this wondrous
System — the like of which mortal eyes have never witnessed.
Bahá’u’lláh, quoted by Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 146
[T]his Administrative Order is fundamentally different from anything that any Prophet has previously
established, inasmuch as Bahá’u’lláh has Himself revealed its principles, established its institutions,
appointed the person to interpret His Word and conferred the necessary authority on the body designed to
supplement and apply His legislative ordinances. Therein lies the secret of its strength, its fundamental
distinction and the guarantee against disintegration and schism. Nowhere in the sacred scriptures of any of the
world’s religious systems, nor even in the writings of the Inaugurator of the Bábí Dispensation, do we find
any provisions establishing a covenant or providing for an administrative order that can compare in scope and
authority with those that lie at the very basis of the Bahá’í Dispensation.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 145
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh is the divinely ordained system for which nations and peoples so desperately
search. Hailed by the Báb in the Persian Bayán, its foundational features prescribed by Bahá'u'lláh himself,
this Order is without precedent in human history for its standard of justice and its commitment to the practical
realization of the oneness of mankind, as well as for its capacity to promote change and the advancement of
world civilization. It provides the means by which the Divine Will illumines the path of human progress and
guides the eventual establishment of the Kingdom of God on earth.
Throughout the entire planet the devoted followers of Bahá'u'lláh are labouring to develop further the Bahá'í
Administrative Order described by the Guardian “not only as the nucleus but the very pattern of the New
World Order”, thus setting the foundation for a world civilization destined to yield its dazzling splendour in
the centuries to come.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 25, 2007, to the Bahá'ís of the World
Regarding the relationship of the Cause to the Administration; the Bahá’í Faith, as the Guardian himself has
repeatedly and emphatically stated, cannot be confined to a mere system of organization, however elaborate in
its features and universal in its scope it may be. Organization is only a means to the realization of its aims and
ideals, and not an end in itself. To divorce the two, however, would be to mutilate the Cause itself, as they
stand inseparably bound to each other, in very much the same relationship existing between the soul and body
in the world of human existence.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated April 19, 1939, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 6
The friends should always be on their guard lest they consider the Administration as an aim in itself and fail
to grasp the spiritual and moral development which is its purpose to achieve.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 25, 1933 to an individual believer
Our guiding light is the Message of Bahá’u’lláh. The administrative order is the strong framework within
which we work and the channel for the outflowing of the spirit into the world.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 12, 1984, to an individual believer, in Messages from the
Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 397.4
BASIC ADMINISTRATIVE UNIT OF BAHÁ’U’LLÁH’S
WORLD ORDER
The Lord hath ordained that in every city a House of Justice be established wherein shall gather counsellors
to the number of Bahá (9) ... They should consider themselves as entering the Court of the presence of God,
the Exalted, the Most High, and as beholding Him Who is the unseen. It behoveth them to be the trusted ones
of the Merciful among men and to regard themselves as the guardians appointed of God for all that dwell on
earth.  It is incumbent on them to take counsel together and to have regard for the interests of the servants of
God, for His sake, even as they regard their own interests, and to choose that which is meet and seemly.  Thus
hath the Lord your God commanded you.  Beware lest ye put away that which is clearly revealed in His
Tablet.  Fear God, O ye that perceive.
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, par. 30
These Spiritual Assemblies are aided by the Spirit of God. Their defender is Άbdu'l-Bahá. Over them He
spreadeth His wings. What bounty is there greater than this? These Spiritual Assemblies are shining lamps
and heavenly gardens, from which the fragrances of holiness are diffused over all regions, and the lights of
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
knowledge are shed abroad over all created things. From them the spirit of life streameth in every direction.
They, indeed, are the potent sources of the progress of man, at all times and under all conditions.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Άbdu'l-Bahá, p. 80
The divinely ordained institution of the Local Spiritual Assembly operates at the first levels of human society
and is the basic administrative unit of Bahá’u’lláh’s World Order. It is concerned with individuals and families
whom it must constantly encourage to unite in a distinctive Bahá’í society, vitalized and guarded by the laws,
ordinances and principles of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation. It protects the Cause of God; it acts as the loving
shepherd of the Bahá’í flock.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated Naw-Rúz 1974, to the Bahá’ís of the World, in Messages from the Universal House
of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 141.13
[I]t is of the utmost importance that in accordance with the explicit text of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the Most Holy
Book, in every locality, be it city or hamlet, where the number of adult (21 years and above) declared
believers exceeds nine, a local “Spiritual Assembly” be forthwith established. To it all local matters pertaining
to the Cause must be directly and immediately referred for full consultation and decision. The importance,
nay the absolute necessity of these local Assemblies is manifest when we realize that in the days to come they
will evolve into the local House of Justice ...
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá'í Administration, p. 37
EVOLUTION OF THE ASSEMBLY
Not only will the present-day Spiritual Assemblies be styled differently in the future, but they will be enabled
also to add to their present functions those powers, duties, and prerogatives necessitated by the recognition of
the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh, not merely as one of the recognized religious systems of the world, but as the State
Religion of an independent and Sovereign Power.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 6-7
Every Local Spiritual Assembly which unitedly strives to grow in maturity and efficiency and encourages its
community to fulfill its destiny as a foundation stone of Bahá’u’lláh’s World Order can add to a growing
groundswell of interest in and eventual recognition of the Cause of God as the sole hope for mankind.
Message from the Universal House of Justice, dated Riḍván 1985, to the Bahá’ís of the World, in Messages from the Universal House
of Justice 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 427.5
As for the institutions, entry by troops will act upon them as much as they will act upon it. The evolution of
local and national Bahá’í Assemblies at this time calls for a new state of mind on the part of their members as
well as on the part of those who elect them, for the Bahá’í community is engaged in an immense historical
process that is entering a critical stage. Bahá’u’lláh has given to the world institutions to operate in an Order
designed to canalize the forces of a new civilization. Progress toward that glorious realization requires a great
and continuous expansion of the Bahá’í community, so that adequate scope is provided for the maturation of
these institutions. This is a matter of immediate importance to Bahá’u’lláh’s avowed supporters in all lands.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated Riḍván 1996, to the Bahá’ís of the World
The community must become imbued with a sense of mission and the Assembly grow in awareness of its role
as a channel of God’s grace not only for the Bahá’ís but for the entire village, town or city in which it serves.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 26, 1995 to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
The role of the Local Spiritual Assembly is, like that of all other institutions, an evolutionary one, which will
develop in relation to the processes of growth. Although observations in this area are still rather preliminary,
certain broad conclusions are already discernible. Where Local Assemblies have acquired the new vision of
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
growth and adjusted to the requirements of operating within the context of the cluster, they have greatly
enhanced the teaching work. Conversely, where there has been resistance to the new realities, the process of
growth has been adversely affected.
Document prepared by the International Teaching Center, dated July 2005, “Impact of Growth on Administrative Processes”, in
Turning Point, Selected Messages from the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 53.11
This maturation comes about through the enhancement of the capabilities of Bahá’í institutions as they are
involved in promoting growth, responding to the needs of increasing numbers of believers, and facilitating
their service to the Cause.
Document prepared by the International Teaching Center, dated April 2003, “Building Momentum: A Coherent Approach to Growth”,
in Turning Point, Selected Messages from the Universal House of Justice and Supplemental Material, 1996-2006, par. 52.112
Building the Assembly’s Capacity
Early on in each locality, the Local Spiritual Assembly comes into existence, and its steady development
follows a trajectory parallel with, and intimately tied to, the fledgling process of growth unfolding in the
village.  And not unlike the evolution of other facets of this process, the development of the Local Assembly
can best be understood in terms of capacity building.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 2010 to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
Evolving relationships among administrative structures have brought the Local Spiritual Assembly to the
threshold of a new stage in the exercise of its responsibilities to diffuse the Word of God, to mobilize the
energies of the believers, and to forge an environment that is spiritually edifying. On previous occasions we
have explained that the maturity of a Spiritual Assembly cannot be assessed by the regularity of its meetings
and the efficiency of its functioning alone. Rather its strength must be measured, to a large extent, by the
vitality of the spiritual and social life of the community it serves — a growing community that welcomes the
constructive contributions of both those who are formally enrolled and those who are not.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated Riḍván 2010, to the Bahá’ís of the World
For such an expansion to be stimulated and accommodated, the Spiritual Assemblies must rise to a new stage
in the exercise of their responsibilities as channels of divine guidance, planners of the teaching work,
developers of human resources, builders of communities, and loving shepherds of the multitudes. They can
realize these prospects through increasing the ability of their members to take counsel together in accordance
with the principles of the Faith and to consult with the friends under their jurisdiction, through fostering the
spirit of service, through spontaneously collaborating with the Continental Counsellors and their auxiliaries,
and through cultivating their external relations. Particularly must the progress in the evolution of the
institutions be manifest in the multiplication of localities in which the function of the Spiritual Assembly
enhances the individual believer’s capacity to serve the Cause and fosters unified action.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated Riḍván 1996, to the Bahá’ís of the World, in Messages of the Universal House from
Justice 1986-2001: The Fourth Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 216.24
Clearly, learning to consult on specific issues related to the global Plan, no matter how crucial, represents but
one dimension of the capacity-building process in which the Local Spiritual Assembly must engage. Its
continued development implies adherence to the injunction laid down by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá that “discussions must
all be confined to spiritual matters that pertain to the training of souls, the instruction of children, the relief of
the poor, the help of the feeble throughout all classes in the world, kindness to all peoples, the diffusion of the
fragrances of God and the exaltation of His Holy Word.” Its steady advancement requires an unbending
commitment to promote the best interests of the community and a vigilance in guarding the process of growth
against the forces of moral decay that threaten to arrest it. Its ongoing progress calls for a sense of
responsibility that extends beyond the circle of friends and families engaged in the core activities to
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
encompass the entire population of the village. And sustaining its gradual maturation is unshakable faith in
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s assurance that He will enfold every Spiritual Assembly within the embrace of His care and
protection.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 2010, to the Conference of Continental Boards of Counselors
[T]he Bahá’í system is based upon the ideals of unity, harmony, justice, diversity and forbearance in the
building of a divinely conceived administrative structure through a process of mutual learning and discovery.
… All members of a Bahá’í community, no matter what position they may temporarily occupy in the
administrative structure, are expected to regard themselves as involved in a learning process, as they strive to
understand and implement the laws and principles of the Faith  As part of this process the Assemblies are
encouraged to continually share their hopes and cares and the news of developments with the members of the
community and to seek their views and support.  There are, of course, matters such as the personal problems
of a believer which he (or she) brings to his Assembly for advice, the amounts of the contributions of
individual believers to the Fund, and so forth, in relation to which the Assembly must observe strict
confidentiality.  As in any just system of government the proper balance has to be sought and found between
extremes.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice dated July 18, 2000 to an individual
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE INSTITUTION AND ITS
MEMBERS
Service on the institutions and agencies of the Faith is indeed a tremendous privilege, but not one that is
sought by the individual; it is a duty and responsibility to which he or she may be called at any given time. It
is understandable, of course, that all those involved in Bahá’í administration would rightly feel they have been
invested with a singular honor in forming part, in whatever way, of a structure designed to be a channel
through which the spirit of the Cause flows.  Yet they should not imagine that such service entitles them to
operate on the periphery of the learning process that is everywhere gaining strength, exempt from its inherent
requirements. Nor should it be supposed that membership on administrative bodies provides an opportunity to
promote one’s own understanding of what is recorded in the Sacred Text. … Bahá’í institutions do exercise
authority to guide the friends, and exert moral, spiritual and intellectual influence on the lives of individuals
and communities.  However, such functions are to be performed with the realization that an ethos of loving
service pervades Bahá’í institutional identity. Qualifying authority and influence in this manner implies
sacrifice on the part of those entrusted to administer the affairs of the Faith.”
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 2010 to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
Membership on an Assembly imposes upon the believer the spiritual responsibility to become an active
participant in its work, to be fully informed of its endeavors, and to ensure that its functioning is in accord
with Bahá’í principles.
From a letter of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 22, 1989 to a National Spiritual Assembly
This is very heartening, for upon the degree to which the members of these Assemblies grasp the true
significance of the divine institution on which they serve, arise selflessly to fulfill their prescribed and sacred
duties, and persevere in their endeavors, depends to a large extent the healthy growth of the world-wide
community of the Most Great Name, the force of its outward thrust, and the strength of its supporting roots.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 25, 1975, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 162.29
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
The Cause ... is a divine institution whose responsible administrators should consider themselves as mere
channels whereby God protects and guides His Faith. The Administration should never be allowed to become
a bone of contention between individuals and groups. It stands above human personalities and transcends the
scope of their limited and inevitably selfish ideas. Its custodians should continually purge themselves of every
trace of personal desire or interest and become wholly imbued with the spirit of love, of cooperation and of
genuine self-sacrifice.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated August 8, 1933, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 125
Such a rectitude of conduct must manifest itself, with ever-increasing potency, in every verdict which the
elected representatives of the Bahá’í community, in whatever capacity they may find themselves, may be
called upon to pronounce. It must be constantly reflected in the business dealings of all its members, in their
domestic lives, in all manner of employment, and in any service they may, in the future, render their
government or people.
Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, p. 26
See also:
Responsibilities of Members – Ch.3
DYNAMIC FLOW BETWEEN THE THREE PARTICIPANTS IN
THE PLAN
The individual, the institutions, and the community—the three protagonists in the Divine Plan—are being
shaped under the direct influence of His Revelation, and a new conception of each, appropriate for a humanity
that has come of age, is emerging. The relationships that bind them, too, are undergoing a profound
transformation, bringing into the realm of existence civilization-building powers which can only be released
through conformity with His decree.  At a fundamental level these relationships are characterized by
cooperation and reciprocity, manifestations of the interconnectedness that governs the universe. So it is that
the individual, with no regard for “personal benefits and selfish advantages,” comes to see him- or herself as
“one of the servants of God, the All-Possessing,” whose only desire is to carry out His laws.  So it is that the
friends come to recognize that “wealth of sentiment, abundance of good-will and effort” are of little avail
when their flow is not directed along proper channels, that “the unfettered freedom of the individual should be
tempered with mutual consultation and sacrifice,” and that “the spirit of initiative and enterprise should be
reinforced by a deeper realization of the supreme necessity for concerted action and a fuller devotion to the
common weal.”  And so it is that all come to discern with ease those areas of activity in which the individual
can best exercise initiative and those which fall to the institutions alone.  “With heart and soul”, the friends
follow the directives of their institutions, so that, as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explains, “things may be properly ordered
and well arranged”.  This, of course, is not a blind obedience; it is an obedience that marks the emergence of a
mature human race which grasps the implications of a system as far-reaching as Bahá’u’lláh’s new World
Order.
Letter of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 2010, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
Relationships imbued with this consciousness [of the oneness of humankind] are being cultivated by Baha'is
and their friends in villages and neighbourhoods across the world; from them can be detected the pure
fragrances of reciprocity and cooperation, of concord and love.  Within such unassuming settings, a visible
alternative to society's familiar strife is emerging.  So it becomes apparent that the individual who wishes to
exercise self-expression responsibly participates thoughtfully in consultation devoted to the common good
and spurns the temptation to insist on personal opinion; a Baha'i institution, appreciating the need for
coordinated action channelled toward fruitful ends, aims not to control but to nurture and encourage; the
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
community that is to take charge of its own development recognizes an invaluable asset in the unity afforded
through whole-hearted engagement in the plans devised by the institutions.  Under the influence of
Baha'u'llah's Revelation, the relationships among these three are being endowed with new warmth, new life;
in aggregate, they constitute a matrix within which a world spiritual civilization, bearing the imprint of divine
inspiration, gradually matures.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated Ridván 2012, to the Bahá'ís of the World
The appearance of a united, firmly based and self-sustaining community must be a major goal of a Spiritual
Assembly. Composed of a membership reflecting a diversity of personalities, talents, abilities and interests,
such a community requires a level of internal interaction between the Assembly and the body of the believers
based on a commonly recognized commitment to service, and in which a sense of partnership based on
appreciation of each other’s distinctive sphere of action is fully recognized and unfailingly upheld, and no
semblance of a dichotomy between the two appears. In such a community leadership is that expression of
service by which the Spiritual Assembly invites and encourages the use of the manifold talents and abilities
with which the community is endowed, and stimulates and guides the diverse elements of the community
toward goals and strategies by which the effects of a coherent force for progress can be realized.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 19, 1994, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Rights and Responsibilities: The
Complementary Roles of the Individual and Institutions, p. 40
Furthermore, the friends are conscious that the work of the Cause proceeds at different speeds in different
places and for good reason-it is, after all, an organic phenomenon-and they take joy and encouragement from
every instance of progress they see… And so it is that, through the wise direction of institutions and agencies
of the Faith functioning at every level, the friends' exertions, however modest individually, coalesce into a
collective effort to ensure that receptivity to the call of the Blessed Beauty is identified quickly and nurtured
effectively. A cluster in this condition is clearly one where the relationships among the individual, the
institutions, and the community-the Plan's three protagonists-are evolving soundly.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated Ridván 2013, to the Bahá'ís of the World
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE ASSEMBLY AND THE INDIVIDUAL
While responsibility for adhering to the Bahá’í standard rests primarily on the individual believer, it is
incumbent upon the institutions of the Faith to support the individual, largely through educational endeavours,
and to foster a pattern of community life that is conducive to the spiritual upliftment of its members.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 23, 2013 to a National Spiritual Assembly
As the Assembly consults on such tangible matters and learns to nurture the process of growth lovingly and
patiently … it will begin to lay the foundations on which can be built that uniquely affectionate and genuinely
supportive relationship, described by the beloved Guardian in many of his messages, which Local Spiritual
Assemblies should establish with the individual believer.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 2010 to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
Let us also bear in mind that the keynote of the Cause of God is not dictatorial authority but humble
fellowship, not arbitrary power, but the spirit of frank and loving consultation. Nothing short of the spirit of a
true Bahá’í can hope to reconcile the principles of mercy and justice, of freedom and submission, of the
sanctity of the right of the individual and of self-surrender, of vigilance, discretion, and prudence on the one
hand, and fellowship, candor, and courage on the other.
The duties of those whom the friends have freely and conscientiously elected as their representatives are no
less vital and binding than the obligations of those who have chosen them. Their function is not to dictate, but
to consult, and consult not only among themselves, but as much as possible with the friends whom they
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
represent. They must regard themselves in no other light but that of chosen instruments for a more efficient
and dignified presentation of the Cause of God. They should never be led to suppose that they are the central
ornaments of the body of the Cause, intrinsically superior to others in capacity or merit, and sole promoters of
its teachings and principles. They should approach their task with extreme humility, and endeavor, by their
open-mindedness, their high sense of justice and duty, their candor, their modesty, their entire devotion to the
welfare and interests of the friends, the Cause, and humanity, to win, not only the confidence and the genuine
support and respect of those whom they serve, but also their esteem and real affection. They must, at all times,
avoid the spirit of exclusiveness, the atmosphere of secrecy, free themselves from a domineering attitude, and
banish all forms of prejudice and passion from their deliberations. They should, within the limits of wise
discretion, take the friends into their confidence, acquaint them with their plans, share with them their
problems and anxieties, and seek their advice and counsel.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, pp. 63–64
The friends must never mistake the Bahá’í administration for an end in itself. It is merely the instrument of
the spirit of the Faith. This Cause is a Cause which God has revealed to humanity as a whole. It is designed to
benefit the entire human race, and the only way it can do this is to reform the community life of mankind, as
well as seeking to regenerate the individual. The Bahá’í Administration is only the first shaping of what in
future will come to be the social life and laws of community living.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated 14 October 1941, to two believers, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II, no.
Administrative efficiency and order should always be accompanied by an equal degree of love, of devotion
and of spiritual development. Both of them are essential and to attempt to dissociate one from the other is to
deaden the body of the Cause.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated December 10, 1933, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 124
The administrators of the Faith of God must be like unto shepherds. Their aim should be to dispel all the
doubts, misunderstandings and harmful differences which may arise in the community of the believers. And
this they can adequately achieve provided they are motivated by a true sense of love for their fellow-brethren
coupled with a firm determination to act with justice in all the cases which are submitted to them for their
consideration.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 9, 1934, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 119
The maintenance of a climate of love and unity depends largely upon the feelings among the individuals
composing the community that the Assembly is a part of themselves, that their cooperative interactions with
the divinely ordained body allow them a fair latitude for initiative and that the quality of their relationships
with both the institution and their fellow believers encourages a spirit of enterprise invigorated by an
awareness of the revolutionizing purpose of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation, by a consciousness of the high
privilege of their being associated with efforts to realize that purpose, and by a consequent, ever-present sense
of joy. In such a climate, the community is transformed from being the mere sum of its parts to assuming a
wholly new personality as an entity in which its members blend without losing their individual uniqueness.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 19, 1994, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Rights and Responsibilities: The
Complementary Roles of the Individual and Institutions, p. 35
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE ASSEMBLY AND THE COMMUNITY
The Assembly
The members of these Assemblies, on their part, must disregard utterly their own likes and dislikes, their
personal interests and inclinations, and concentrate their minds upon those measures that will conduce to the
welfare and happiness of the Bahá’í Community and promote the common weal.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 41
They should approach their task with extreme humility, and endeavor, by their open-mindedness, their high
sense of justice and duty, their candor, their modesty, their entire devotion to the welfare and interests of the
friends, the Cause, and humanity to win, not only the confidence and the genuine support and respect of those
whom they serve, but also their esteem and real affection.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 64
The aim of any Spiritual Assembly should be to develop a warm and loving relationship with the believers in
its community, so that it can most effectively nurture and encourage them in the acquisition of a deeper
understanding of the teachings, and can assist them to follow the Bahá’í principles in their personal conduct.
The Assembly should aspire to be regarded by the members of the community as a loving parent, wise in its
understanding of the varying degrees of maturity of those entrusted to its care, compassionate in dealing with
the problems which arise as a result of any shortcomings, ever prepared to guide them to the correct path, and
very patient as they strive to effect the necessary changes in their behavior.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 9, 1991, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Through their repeated appeals, through their readiness to dispel all misunderstandings and remove all
obstacles, through the example of their lives, and their unrelaxing vigilance, their high sense of justice, their
humility, consecration and courage, they must demonstrate to those whom they represent their capacity to
play their part in the progress of the Plan in which they, no less than the rest of the community, are involved.
Letter from Shoghi Effendi, dated January 30, 1938, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in This Decisive Hour, Messages from Shoghi
Effendi to the North American Bahá'ís, par. 36.1
There is no task more urgently necessary than the insurance of perfect harmony and fellowship among the
friends, especially between the local assemblies and individual believers. The local assemblies should inspire
confidence in the individual believers, and these in their turn should express their readiness to fully abide by
the decisions and directions of the local assembly: the two must learn to cooperate, and to realize that only
through such a cooperation can the institutions of the Cause effectively and permanently function. While
obedience to the local assembly should be unqualified and whole-hearted, yet that body should
enforce its directions in such a way as to avoid giving the impression that it is animated by
dictatorial motives. The spirit of the Cause is one of mutual cooperation, and not that of a
dictatorship.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 28, 1935, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations,
Vol. II, no. 1391
The development of Assemblies in relation to the teaching work is progressing through their direct support
for individual initiative and cluster activities, their interaction with institutions operating at the cluster level,
and the guidance and support they receive from Regional Bahá'í Councils.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 5, 2006, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
[B]y appreciating the nature of the power of action which they [the friends] possess, you will be able to
gauge how best to guide and direct them. A wide latitude for action must be allowed them, which means that a
large margin for mistakes must also be allowed. Your National Assembly and the Local Assemblies must not
react automatically to every mistake, but distinguish between those that are self-correcting with the passage of
time and do no particular harm to the community and those which require Assembly intervention. Related to
this is the tendency of the friends to criticize each other at the slightest provocation, whereas the Teachings
call upon them to encourage each other. Such tendencies are of course motivated by a deep love for the Faith,
a desire to see it free of any flaw. But human beings are not perfect. The Local Assemblies and the friends
must be helped through your example and through loving counsel to refrain from such a pattern of criticism,
which stunts the growth and development of the community.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 19, 1994, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Rights and Responsibilities: The
Complementary Roles of the Individual and Institutions, pp. 45-46
The Bahá’í Community
Above all, the friends need to remain ever conscious of the magnitude of the spiritual forces that are at their
disposition. They are members of a community “whose world-embracing, continually consolidating activities
constitute the one integrating process in a world whose institutions, secular as well as religious, are for the
most part dissolving.” Of all the peoples of the world, “they alone can recognize, amidst the welter of a
tempestuous age, the Hand of the Divine Redeemer that traces its course and controls its destinies. They alone
are aware of the silent growth of that orderly world polity whose fabric they themselves are weaving.” It is
their institutions that “will come to be regarded as the hallmark and glory of the age” they have been called
upon to establish. The “building process,” to which they are consecrated, is “the one hope of a stricken
society.” For, it is “actuated by the generating influence of God’s changeless Purpose and is evolving with the
framework of the Administrative Order of His Faith.”
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 27, 2005, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counselors, in
Turning Point, Selected Messages from the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 35.32
In order to avoid division and disruption, that the Cause may not fall a prey to conflicting interpretations, and
lose thereby its purity and pristine vigor, that its affairs may be conducted with efficiency and promptness, it
is necessary that everyone should conscientiously take an active part in the election of these Assemblies, abide
by their decisions, enforce their decree, and cooperate with them whole-heartedly in their task of stimulating
the growth of the Movement throughout all regions.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 41
Indeed, the civilization that beckons humanity will not be attained through the efforts of the Bahá’í
community alone. Numerous groups and organizations, animated by the spirit of world solidarity that is an
indirect manifestation of Bahá’u’lláh’s conception of the principle of the oneness of humankind, will
contribute to the civilization destined to emerge out of the welter and chaos of present-day society.  It should
be clear to everyone that the capacity created in the Bahá’í community over successive global Plans renders it
increasingly able to lend assistance in the manifold and diverse dimensions of civilization building, opening
to it new frontiers of learning.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated Riḍván, 2010, to the Bahá’ís of the World
Obedience to the Assembly
The Guardian believes that a great deal of the difficulties from which the believers ... feel themselves to be
suffering are caused by their neither correctly understanding nor putting into practice the administration. They
seem—many of them—to be prone to continually challenging and criticizing the decisions of their
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
assemblies. If the Bahá’ís undermine the very leaders which are, however immaturely, seeking to coordinate
Bahá’í activities and administer Bahá’í affairs, if they continually criticize their acts and challenge or belittle
their decisions, they not only prevent any real rapid progress in the Faith’s development from taking place,
but they repel outsiders who quite rightly may ask how we ever expect to unite the whole world when we are
so disunited among ourselves!
There is only one remedy for this: to study the administration, to obey the assemblies, and each believer seek
to perfect his own character as a Bahá’í. We can never exert the influence over others which we can exert over
ourselves. If we are better, if we show love, patience, and understanding of the weaknesses of others, if we
seek to never criticize but rather encourage, others will do likewise, and we can really help the Cause through
our example and spiritual strength. The Bahá’ís everywhere, when the administration is first established, find
it very difficult to adjust themselves. They have to learn to obey, even when the assembly may be wrong, for
the sake of unity. They have to sacrifice their personalities, to a certain extent, in order that the Community
life may grow and develop as a whole. These things are difficult, but we must realize that they will lead us to
a very much greater, more perfect, way of life when the Faith is properly established according to the
administration.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 26, 1943, to an individual believer, in The National Spiritual Assembly: A
Compilation Issued by the Universal House of Justice, pp. 34-35
The authority to direct the affairs of the Faith locally, nationally and internationally, is divinely conferred on
elected institutions. However, the power to accomplish the tasks of the community resides primarily in the
mass of the believers. The authority of the institutions is an irrevocable necessity for the progress of
humanity; its exercise is an art to be mastered. The power of action in the believers is unlocked at the level of
individual initiative and surges at the level of collective volition. In its potential, this mass power, this mix of
individual potentialities, exists in a malleable form susceptible to the multiple reactions of individuals to the
sundry influences at work in the world. To realize its highest purpose, this power needs to express itself
through orderly avenues of activity. Even though individuals may strive to be guided in their actions by their
personal understanding of the Divine Texts, and much can be accomplished thereby, such actions, untempered
by the overall direction provided by authorized institutions, are incapable of attaining the thrust necessary for
the unencumbered advancement of civilization.
Individual initiative is a pre-eminent aspect of power; it is therefore a major responsibility of the institutions
to safeguard and stimulate it. Similarly, it is important for individuals to recognize and accept that the
institutions must act as a guiding and moderating influence on the march of civilization. In this sense, the
divine requirement that individuals obey the decisions of their Assemblies can clearly be seen as being
indispensable to the progress of society. Indeed, individuals must not be abandoned entirely to their own
devices with respect to the welfare of society as a whole, neither should they be stifled by the assumption of a
dictatorial posture by members of the institution.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 19, 1994, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Rights and Responsibilities: The
Complementary Roles of the Individual and Institutions, par. 38-39
A discernable outcome of the emphasis on capacity building has been a steady increase in the exercise of
individual initiative— initiative that is disciplined by an understanding of the requirements of systematic
action in advancing the process of entry by troops. Endeavors are pursued in a humble posture of learning
within the framework of the Plan. As a result, activities that give expression to a diversity of talents become
harmonized into one forward movement, and the stagnation caused by endless debate over personal
preferences about approach is avoided. Commitment to long-term action grows, putting in context the
initiatives undertaken by the believers at any particular moment.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 27, 2005, to the Conference of the Continental Board of Counselors, in
Turning Point, Selected Messages from the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 35.6
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
The friends are called upon to give their whole-hearted support and cooperation to the Local
Spiritual Assembly, first by voting for the membership and then by energetically pursuing its plans
and programs, by turning to it in time of trouble or difficulty, by praying for its success and taking
delight in its rise to influence and honor. This great prize, this gift of God within each community
must be cherished, nurtured, loved, assisted, obeyed and prayed for.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated Naw-Rúz 1974, to the Bahá’ís of the World, in Messages from the Universal House
of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, p. 265
Also relevant to effecting unity is the attitude of the friends, whether serving on any Assembly or not,
towards the exercise of authority in the Bahá’í community. People generally tend to be suspicious of those in
authority. The reason is not difficult to understand, since human history is replete with examples of the
disastrous misuse of authority and power. A reversal of this tendency is not easily achievable, but the Bahá’í
friends must be freed of suspicion towards their institutions if the wheels of progress are to turn with
uninterrupted speed. A rigorous discipline of thought and action on the part of both the friends and the
National Assembly will succeed in meeting this challenge; both must live up to their responsibilities in this
regard by recognizing some fundamental realities.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 19, 1994, to a National Spiritual Assembly. in Rights and Responsibilities: The
Complementary Roles of the Individual and Institutions, p. 31
[I]nstitutions, appreciating the need for coordinated action channelled toward fruitful ends, aim not to control
but to nurture and guide the individual, who, in turn, willingly receives guidance, not in blind obedience, but
with faith founded on conscious knowledge. The community, meanwhile, takes on the challenge of sustaining
an environment where the powers of individuals, who wish to exercise self-expression responsibly in
accordance with the common weal and the plans of institutions, multiply in unified action.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 2, 2013, to the Bahá'ís of Iran
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE ASSEMBLY AND NEIGHBORING BAHÁ'Í
COMMUNITIES
It [the Local Spiritual Assembly] shall cooperate whole-heartedly with other Local Spiritual Assemblies
throughout the United States in all matters declared by the National Spiritual Assembly to be of general
Bahá’í importance and concern. …
Articles of Incorporation, Constitution, and By-Laws of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States, By-Laws
of a Local Spiritual Assembly, Article IV
It is heartening to see to what extent the institutions are promoting individual initiative, channeling energies
into the teaching field, underscoring the value of systematic action, fostering the spiritual life of the
community and nurturing a welcoming environment. In helping the community to remain focused on the aim
of the Plan, they are learning in practical terms what it means to maintain unity of vision among the friends, to
put mechanisms in place that facilitate their endeavors and to allocate resources in accordance with priorities
wisely set.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 27, 2005, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counselors, in
Turning Point, Selected Messages from the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 35.17
Throughout the [Five Year] Plan, we have watched with the keenest interest the effects of these developments
on the functioning of Local Spiritual Assemblies. It gives us pleasure to note that two types of progress are
being made in this respect. In those clusters where most of the Local Assemblies have been extremely weak, a
growing number are gradually assuming their responsibilities as they learn to guide specific activities of the
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
Plan in the areas under their jurisdiction. At the same time, long-standing Local Spiritual Assemblies are
exhibiting signs of added strength as they have come to embrace a vision of systematic growth--this, often
following a period of adjustment in which some struggled to understand the new realities being created at the
cluster level.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 27, 2005, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counselors, in
Turning Point, Selected Messages from the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 35.19
Assembly Participation in the Cluster
The development of Assemblies in relation to the teaching work is progressing through their direct support
for individual initiative and cluster activities, their interaction with institutions operating at the cluster level,
and the guidance and support they receive from Regional Councils.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 5, 2006, to a National Spiritual Assembly
It goes without saying, where Local Spiritual Assemblies are strong, they would be fully involved in all
aspects of the processes of planning and implementation at the level of the cluster. But this in no way
diminishes the significant role that the Regional Councils must play. Each Council has to communicate the
details of its plan to the friends, help the clusters develop the capacity to implement increasingly more
complex programs of growth, see to it that the regional institutes serve the needs of each cluster, and provide
the means for the exchange of ideas and methods. For the Councils to carry out these challenging tasks, your
National Assembly must ensure that they are empowered to advise and urge Local Spiritual Assemblies on
matters of growth and to coordinate collaboration among them.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 12, 2001, to a National Spiritual Assembly
As the Assembly consults on such tangible matters and learns to nurture the process of growth lovingly and
patiently, its relationship with the Area Teaching Committee and the training institute gradually becomes
cemented in a common purpose. But, of still greater importance, it will begin to lay the foundations on which
can be built that uniquely affectionate and genuinely supportive relationship, described by the beloved
Guardian in many of his messages, which Local Spiritual Assemblies should establish with the individual
believer.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 2010, to the Conference of the Continental Boards Counselors
For its part, and in response to growing numbers attending activities, the Local Assembly is enhancing its
capacity to discharge the many responsibilities it carries on behalf of an expanding community.  It seeks to
create an environment in which all feel encouraged to contribute to the community’s common enterprise.  It is
eager to see the cluster agencies succeed in their plans, and its intimate familiarity with the conditions in its
area enables it to foster the development of interacting processes at the local level.  With this in mind, it urges
the wholehearted participation of the friends in campaigns and meetings for reflection, and it provides
material resources and other assistance for initiatives and events being organized in the locality.  The
Assembly is also attentive to the need for new believers to be nurtured sensitively, considering when and how
various dimensions of community life are to be introduced to them.  By encouraging their involvement in
institute courses, it aims to ensure that from the very beginning they regard themselves as protagonists in a
noble endeavour to build the world anew.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 29, 2015, to the Conference of the Continental Board of Counsellors
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
Reflection Gatherings
Although the agencies of the Faith responsible for organizing reflection meetings at the level of the cluster
may choose to open them up to individuals who are not Bahá'ís but are close to the Faith, believers without
their full administrative rights are not entitled to attend such meetings.
Email from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 30, 2008, to a National Spiritual Assembly
As learning has come to distinguish the community's mode of operation, certain aspects of decision making
related to expansion and consolidation have been assigned to the body of the believers, enabling planning and
implementation to become more responsive to circumstances on the ground. Specifically, a space has been
created, in the agency of the reflection meeting, for those engaged in activities at the cluster level to assemble
from time to time in order to reach consensus on the current status of their situation, in light of experience and
guidance from the institutions, and to determine their immediate steps forward. A similar space is opened by
the institute, which makes provision for those serving as tutors, children's class teachers, and animators of
junior youth groups in a cluster to meet severally and consult on their experience. Intimately connected to this
grassroots consultative process are the agencies of the training institute and the Area Teaching Committee,
together with the Auxiliary Board members, whose joint interactions provide another space in which
decisions pertaining to growth are taken, in this case with a higher degree of formality.  The workings of this
cluster-level system, born of exigencies, point to an important characteristic of Baha'i administration:  Even as
a living organism, it has coded within it the capacity to accommodate higher and higher degrees of
complexity, in terms of structures and processes, relationships and activities, as it evolves under the guidance
of the Universal House of Justice.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 2010 to the Conference of the Continental Board of Counsellors
Careful analysis of experience, through participatory discussions rather than overly complex and elaborate
presentations, serves to maintain unity of vision, sharpen clarity of thought and heighten enthusiasm. Central
to such an analysis is the review of vital statistics that suggest the next set of goals to be adopted. Plans are
made that take into account increased capacity in terms of the human resources available at the end of the
cycle to perform various tasks, on the one hand, and accumulated knowledge about the receptivity of the
population and the dynamics of teaching, on the other.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 27, 2005, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counselors, in
Turning Point, Selected Messages of the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 35.27
Reflection meetings/gatherings at the level of the cluster are carried out under the jurisdiction of the Regional
Bahá'í Councils and are called by the Area Teaching Committee for each cluster.
See also:
Local Assembly Relationship to Regional Bahá’í Councils – Ch.1
Insurance — Ch. 3
Bahá'í Groups and Isolated Believers
Local Spiritual Assemblies may carry out projects and develop relationships with Bahá'í groups and isolated
believers in their vicinity independently of cluster activities. Groups and isolated believers may enlist the
assistance of nearby Spiritual Assemblies, inviting them to adopt their communities as extension teaching
goals, although these activities in no way confer on the Assembly jurisdiction over these communities.
Groups and isolated believers are free to seek administrative assistance from any nearby Local Spiritual
Assembly or may turn to the National Spiritual Assembly, if they wish, but they do not handle matters of
personal status. Should the National Assembly learn of a situation involving an isolated believer or group that
requires administrative attention, it may ask a Local Spiritual Assembly to handle the matter.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE LOCAL AND NATIONAL SPIRITUAL
ASSEMBLIES
Authority and Jurisdiction of National Spiritual Assembly
The National Spiritual Assembly shall have exclusive jurisdiction and authority over all the activities and
affairs of the Bahá’í Faith throughout its area.
Universal House of Justice, The Constitution of the Universal House of Justice, p. 9
All matters arising within a local Bahá’í community which are of purely local interest and do not affect the
national interests of the Cause shall be under the primary jurisdiction of the Spiritual Assembly of that
locality, but decision whether a particular matter involves the interest and welfare of the national Bahá’í body
shall rest with the National Spiritual Assembly.
Articles of Incorporation, Constitution, and By-Laws of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the United States, By-Laws
of a Local Spiritual Assembly, Article VII, Section 8
Whatever functions and powers are not specifically attributed to Local Spiritual Assemblies in these By-
Laws shall be considered vested in the National Spiritual Assembly, which body is authorized to delegate such
discretionary functions and power as it deems necessary and advisable to the Local Spiritual Assemblies in its
jurisdiction.
Articles of Incorporation, Constitution, and By-Laws of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the United States, By-Laws
of a Local Spiritual Assembly, Article X
I wish to reaffirm in clear and categorical language, the principle already enunciated upholding the supreme
authority of the national assembly in all matters that affect the interests of the Faith in that land. There can be
no conflict of authority, no duality under any form or circumstances in any sphere of Bahá’í jurisdiction
whether local, national, or international.
Postscript written by the Shoghi Effendi in a letter written on his behalf, dated June 11, 1934, to National Spiritual Assemblies, in The
Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II, no. 1439
[T]he Guardian wishes me to again affirm his view that the authority of the N.S.A. is undivided and
unchallengeable in all matters pertaining to the administration of the Faith ... and that, therefore, the
obedience of individual Bahá’ís, delegates, groups, and assemblies to that authority is imperative, and should
be wholehearted and unqualified. He is convinced that the unreserved acceptance and complete application of
this vital provision of the Administration is essential to the maintenance of the highest degree of unity among
the believers, and is indispensable to the effective working of the administrative machinery of the Faith in
every country.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated June 11, 1934, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 127
Local Assembly Upholds and Supports the National Spiritual Assembly
Unity is, therefore, the main key to success. And the best way to insure and consolidate the organic unity of
His Faith is to strengthen the authority of the local assemblies and to bring them within the full orbit of the
National Assembly’s jurisdiction. The National Assembly is the head, and the local assemblies are these
various organs of the body of the Cause. To insure full cooperation between these various parts is to safeguard
the best interests of the Faith by enabling it to counteract those forces which threaten to create a breach within
the ranks of the faithful.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated September 20, 1933, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations,
Vol. II, no. 1515
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
It [the Local Spiritual Assembly] shall faithfully and devotedly uphold the general Bahá’í activities and
affairs initiated and sustained by the National Spiritual Assembly. It shall cooperate whole-heartedly with
other Local Spiritual Assemblies throughout the United States in all matters declared by the National Spiritual
Assembly to be of general Bahá’í importance and concern.
Articles of Incorporation, Constitution, and By-Laws of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the United States: By-Laws
of a Local Spiritual Assembly, Article IV
Just as the individual believers are bound to support and sustain their spiritual assembly, for the preservation
of the unity of the Faith and the strengthening of its as yet embryonic World Order, so must the local
assemblies obey and sustain their national representatives. The closer the cooperation between the local and
national assemblies, the greater will be the power and radiance which can and must stream forth from these
institutions to the suffering ranks of humanity.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 29, 1942, to an individual believer, in The National Spiritual Assembly: A
Compilation Issued by the Universal House of Justice, pp. 27–28
It is obvious that through the consolidation of the foundations of the Administrative Order on the local level,
the national institutions of the Faith will receive support and strength in the conduct of their activities. In turn,
the National Spiritual Assembly and its agencies should not only oversee the activities of the local
communities, but it has the duty and privilege to coordinate the efforts and to stimulate and give direction to
the spirit of enterprise and initiative of the individual friends. When a proper and balanced relationship is
maintained between these two levels of Bahá’í activity, and a healthy interaction takes place between them, a
foundation is laid for the community to become “spiritually welded into a unit at once dynamic and
coherent.”1
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated June 17, 1981, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 280.2
1Shoghi Effendi, Messages to the Bahá’í World, 1950-1957, p.140
Local activities should always be subordinated to those of a national character and importance. This is
intended not to minimize the role of the local assembly in the administrative order, but to establish and ensure
a sane relationship between that body and the national organism of the Cause.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated May 10, 1934, to a National Spiritual Assembly
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE LOCAL ASSEMBLY AND THE REGIONAL
BAHÁ’Í COUNCIL
Establishment and Purpose of Regional Bahá’í Council
The expansion of the Bahá’í community and the growing complexity of the issues which are facing National
Spiritual Assemblies in certain countries have brought the Cause to a new stage in its development. They have
caused us in recent years to examine various aspects of the balance between centralization and
decentralization. In a few countries we have authorized the National Spiritual Assemblies to establish State
Bahá’í Councils or Regional Teaching and Administrative Committees. From the experience gained in the
operation of these bodies, and from detailed examination of the principles set forth by Shoghi Effendi, we
have reached the conclusion that the time has arrived for us to formalize a new element of Bahá’í
administration, between the local and national levels, comprising institutions of a special kind, to be
designated as “Regional Bahá’í Councils.”
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 30, 1997, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice 1986-2001: The Fourth Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 250.1
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
Regional Bahá'í Councils partake of some, but not all, characteristics of the Spiritual Assemblies, and thus
provide a means of carrying forward the teaching work and administering related affairs of a rapidly growing
Bahá'í community in a number of situations. Without such an institution, the development of a national
committee structure required to cover the needs in some countries would run the danger of over-complexity
through adding a further layer of committees under the regional committees, or the danger of excessive
decentralization through conferring too much autonomy on committees which are characterized by the
Guardian as “bodies that should be regarded in no other light than that of expert advisers and executive
assistants.”
The distinguishing effects of the establishment of Regional Bahá'í Councils are the following:
It provides for a level of autonomous decision-making on both teaching and administrative matters, as
distinct from merely executive action, below the National Assembly and above the Local Assemblies.
It involves the members of Local Spiritual Assemblies of the area in the choice of the members of the
Council, thus reinforcing the bond between it and the local believers while, at the same time, bringing into
public service capable believers who are known to the friends in their own region.
It establishes direct consultative relationships between the Continental Counsellors and the Regional
Bahá’í Councils. …
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 30, 1997, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in Turning Point, Selected
Messages of the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 14.5-14.9
The main task of a Regional Bahá’í Council is to devise and execute expansion and consolidation plans in
close collaboration with the Local Spiritual Assemblies and the believers within its area of jurisdiction. Its
goal is to create strong Local Spiritual Assemblies which will be the focal centres of Bahá’í activity, will
exercise their vitally important role in the development of the Faith and will demonstrate their ability to
regulate the affairs of their local communities.
Enclosure to letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 30, 1997, to National Spiritual Assemblies, “The Establishment of
Regional Bahá’í Councils in Certain Countries, Their Characteristics and Functions”, in Turning Point, Selected Messages of the
Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, paras. 14.22-14.23
Agencies of the Regional Bahá’í Council
The Regional Bahá’í Councils are the executive instruments of the National Spiritual Assembly authorized to
act on its behalf in devising and promoting programs dedicated to fulfilling the aim of advancing the process
of entry by troops. The Councils direct and coordinate the work of cluster agencies, as well as ensure the
collaborative involvement of Local Spiritual Assemblies in cluster and core activities.
Letter on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 5, 2006, to the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States
Whether activities are scattered across the cluster or concentrated in one village or neighbourhood, a sense of
common purpose characterizes the endeavours of the friends. Whatever level of organization served to
channel the early manifestations of this spirit, the systematic, coordinated multiplication of core activities
necessitates that higher levels soon be attained. Through various measures, greater structure is lent to activity,
and initiative, shaped largely by individual volition before, is now given collective expression. A complement
of coordinators appointed by the institute moves into place—those for study circles, for junior youth groups,
and for children’s classes. Any order of appointment is potentially valid. Nothing less than an acute awareness
of circumstances on the ground should make this determination, for what is at stake is not compliance with a
set of procedures but the unfoldment of an educational process that has begun to show its potential to bring
about the spiritual empowerment of large numbers.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 2010, to the Conference of the Continental Board of Counselors
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
Area Teaching Committee
The participation of greater numbers of individuals in the activities of a cluster requires a strong Area
Teaching Committee.  Regional Councils should be assisted to learn systematically how these committees
emerge organically, as a program of growth intensifies, and contribute to the advancement of a cluster, cycle
after cycle.  The mobilization of individuals to ensure steady progress of the program of growth is the
principal focus of the Area Teaching Committee.  It fosters the process of reflection and planning by
organizing the reflection meeting, facilitating a sound reading of the cluster’s reality, and arranging for the
accurate gathering and careful analysis of its statistics—all of which expand vision, build unity of thought,
and illuminate the path for the progress of the cluster. Just as the training institute works closely to guide and
accompany the friends who initiate children’s classes, junior youth groups, and study circles, the Area
Teaching Committee can encourage and support many individuals to carry out other acts of service, such as
hosting devotional gatherings, undertaking home visits, and teaching the Faith.
Letter on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 5, 2015, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Clearly, the institute process raises capacity for a broad range of undertakings; from the earliest courses,
participants are encouraged to visit their friends at their homes and study a prayer together or share with them
a theme from the Bahá’í teachings. Arrangements for supporting the friends in these endeavours, which may
have been largely informal, eventually prove inadequate, signaling the need for an Area Teaching Committee
to appear.  Its principal focus is the mobilization of individuals, often through the formation of teams, for the
continued spread of the pattern of activity in a cluster. Its members come to see everyone as a potential
collaborator in a collective enterprise, and they appreciate their own part in nurturing a spirit of common
purpose in the community. With a Committee in place, the efforts already under way to convene gatherings
for worship, to carry out home visits, and to teach the Faith can now expand considerably.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 29, 2015, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
Meanwhile, the Area Teaching Committee is rising to a new level of functioning. It is engaged in a more
thorough reading of circumstances in the whole cluster: on the one hand, accurately assessing the capacities of
the community and the effects being produced by sustained growth, and on the other, understanding the
implications of various social realities for community building in the long term. In the plans it makes each
cycle, the Committee relies heavily on those shouldering the greatest share of the work of expansion and
consolidation, but given that the number of those connected in some way with the pattern of activity is now
large, a variety of questions become more pressing: how to mobilize the entire company of believers in
support of teaching goals; how to organize systematic home visits to the friends who would benefit from
deepening and discussions that connect them with the community; how to strengthen spiritual bonds with the
parents of children and junior youth; how to build on the interest of those who have shown goodwill towards
the Faith but have yet to take part in its activities. Promoting the widespread holding of devotional meetings is
another concern, so that hundreds of people, eventually thousands, are engaged in worship in the company of
their households and their neighbours. Ultimately, of course, the Committee looks to continually extend the
reach of the community’s endeavours so that more and more souls become acquainted with the message of
Bahá’u’lláh. In managing the complexities involved in its own work—which includes gathering and analysing
statistical data, as well as a diversity of other tasks—the Committee draws on the help of individuals beyond
its own members.  These complexities also require increasingly close collaboration with Local Spiritual
Assemblies.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 29, 2015, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
As the development of a cluster evolves, coordinating bodies for the cluster develop organically. Regional
Bahá’í Councils appoint Regional Development Facilitators to aid emerging clusters and Area Teaching
Committees (ATC)  to foster and coordinate teaching activities within clusters. The Councils receive
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
recommendations for committee membership from Local Spiritual Assemblies, Auxiliary Board members, and
members of cluster agencies.
Regional Training Institute
Crucial to the future success of the institute will be the freedom of movement and action that it enjoys. The
institute is, of course, an agency functioning under your aegis, and ultimately matters related to its operation
rest with you. However, at this point in the growth of the Faith, the mandate of the institute is fairly clear-cut:
A sequence of courses has been adopted as the national program for the development of human resources. It is
the job of the institute, then, to help a steadily increasing number of youth and adults advance through that
sequence and to carry out the concomitant task of organizing and maintaining classes for junior youth and
children. There is little need for lengthy and frequent consultations to set direction and devise and rethink
fundamental plans. Now is the time for action, and the central participants driving the institute process should
be granted the latitude required to perform their functions effectively. Specifically, the … coordinator should
be invested with enough authority to ensure that the basic purpose of the institute to raise up active supporters
of the Faith is fulfilled.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 9, 2002, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Turning Point,
Selected Messages from the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 44.34
Consider, for example, the multiplication of children's classes. ... The regional institutes are charged with
responsibility for the implementation and management of the classes, and they require a wide degree of
latitude to train the teachers, deploy resources and collaborate with Local Spiritual Assemblies.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated October 19, 2005, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Regional Training Institutes (RTIs), agencies established by the National Spiritual Assembly to serve specific
geographic areas, are overseen by Regional Bahá’í Councils on behalf of the National Assembly.  The role of
Regional Training Institutes is to systematically train the human resources in its area and ready them for
mobilization by Area Teaching Committees and Assemblies to meet the goals of teaching plans and to serve
the needs of the community.
Each Regional Training Institute is operated by a board of directors responsible for governing the affairs of the
Institute and guiding its activities. The board is appointed by the National Spiritual Assembly in consultation
with the Continental Board of Counselors and the Regional Bahá’í Council. Each Institute board appoints
Regional Institute coordinators, who are responsible for coordinating and supporting the work of the Cluster
Institute coordinators (CIC) in their region. Cluster Institute coordinators work in their respective clusters as
facilitators of the institute process, creating reflection spaces and ensuring that those serving as tutors are
supported in their efforts.
Regional Councils Do Not Handle Matters of Personal Status
The work of Regional Bahá'í Councils is concerned primarily with the teaching work, and it is on this and
related topics that the Regional Bahá'í Council interacts with the Local Spiritual Assemblies in its region.
Regional Bahá'í Councils are not involved in personal status matters and the administration of justice.
Regional Councils Establish Cluster Boundaries
Boundaries are to be set not according to the condition of local Bahá'í communities or the strength of Local
Spiritual Assemblies, but on the basis of a number of specific demographic, social, and economic factors ...
What is necessary then, is for each Regional Bahá'í Council to consider the area under its jurisdiction and
divide the region into clusters ... It should be borne in mind that a “cluster” is a construct that is to enable the
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
friends to think about the growth of the Faith on a manageable scale and to design and implement plans close
to the grassroots of the community.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 12, 2001, to a National Spiritual Assembly
In most cases, there are multiple Bahá'í localities (civil jurisdictions) within a cluster and a cluster may have
as many Local Spiritual Assemblies, registered Bahá'í groups, and/or unopened localities as there are civil
jurisdictions.
However, in some cases a single jurisdiction has been designated as a cluster by itself. In those cases, there
cannot be more than one Assembly. Such a cluster is usually composed of sectors or neighborhoods within
the single jurisdiction.
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN ELECTED AND APPOINTED INSTITUTIONS
Abase not the station of the learned in Bahá and belittle not the rank of such rulers as administer justice
amidst you.”
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 138
The Administrative Order accomplishes its purpose through the system of institutions, each operating within
its defined sphere of action. … Acting in their respective roles, the two institutions of the Counsellors and the
Spiritual Assemblies share responsibility for the protection and propagation of the Faith.  The harmonious
interaction between them ensures the constant flow of guidance, love and encouragement to the believers and
invigorates their individual and collective endeavours to advance the Cause. …
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 1-2
Further, in addition to the Spiritual Assemblies, the Bahá’í Administrative Order also contains the institutions
of the Continental Boards of Counselors and their Auxiliary Boards. Their endeavors, with the individuals, the
community and the institutions, are intended to help maintain the true spirit of the Faith, to counsel the
governing institutions and to assist them to attain the high ideals set before them by Bahá’u’lláh and the
Master. As the House of Justice wrote in a letter dated 24 April 1972: “The existence of institutions of such
exalted rank, comprising individuals who play such a vital role, who yet have no legislative, administrative or
judicial authority, and are entirely devoid of priestly functions or the right to make authoritative
interpretations, is a feature of Bahá’í administration unparalled in the religions of the past.” The House of
Justice went on to comment that, only as the Bahá’í community grows, and the believers are increasingly able
to contemplate its administrative structure uninfluenced by concepts from past ages, will the vital
interdependence of these two arms of the administration be properly understood and the value of their
interaction be fully recognized.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 18, 2000, to an individual
As you know, a distinguishing feature of the Administrative Order is the existence of elected institutions, on
the one hand, which function corporately with vested legislative, executive and judicial powers, and of
appointed, eminent and devoted believers, on the other hand, who function primarily as individuals for the
specific purposes of protecting and propagating the Faith under the guidance of the Head of the Faith. The
two sets of institutions collaborate in their functions so as to ensure the progress of the Cause.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 19, 1994, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Rights and Responsibilities: The
Complementary Roles of the Individual and Institutions, p. 30
International Teaching Center
The time is indeed propitious for the establishment of the International Teaching Center, a development
which, at one and the same time, brings to fruition the work of the Hands of the Cause residing in the Holy
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
Land and provides for its extension into the future, links the institution of the Boards of Counsellors even
more intimately with that of the Hands of the Cause of God, and powerfully reinforces the discharge of the
rapidly growing responsibilities of the Universal House of Justice. …
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated June 8, 1973, to the Bahá'ís of the World
Its responsibilities call on it to serve as a source of information and analysis for the Universal House of
Justice and to provide guidance and resources to the Continental Counsellors. It is required to be fully
informed of the situation of the Cause in all parts of the world and alert to possibilities for the expansion of
the Faith, the consolidation of its institutions, and the development of Bahá’í community life. It has to analyse
these possibilities in relation to global plans, anticipating needs worldwide and ensuring that the necessary
resources become available to national communities. In this context, it gives particular attention to the
development of human resources, helping communities increase their capacity to endow growing contingents
of believers with spiritual insight, knowledge of the Faith, and skills and abilities of service.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 7
The International Teaching Centre is invested with the mandate to watch over the security and ensure the
protection of the Faith of God. … [I]t needs to be attentive to the spiritual health of the Bahá’í community,
urging the Counsellors and their auxiliaries to strengthen the believers to resist the influence of both external
and internal sources of opposition to the Cause, and to assist National and Local Spiritual Assemblies in
resolving questions that could raise doubt about the integrity of the Faith and its Teachings.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 8
The International Teaching Center and, through it, the Continental Boards of Counsellors are poised for the
special responsibilities which devolve upon them to be alert to possibilities for extending the development of
social and economic life both within and outside the Bahá'í Community, and to advise and encourage the
Assemblies and friends in their strivings.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated October 20, 1983, to the Bahá'ís of the World, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 379.5
Continental Boards of Counselors
The Universal House of Justice sees no way in which additional Hands of the Cause can be appointed. … In
the light of these considerations the Universal House of Justice decided, as announced in its recent cable, to
establish Continental Boards of Counsellors for the protection and propagation of the Faith. Their duties will
include directing the Auxiliary Boards in their respective areas, consulting and collaborating with National
Spiritual Assemblies, and keeping the Hands of the Cause and the Universal House of Justice informed
concerning the conditions of the Cause in their areas.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated June 24, 1968, to the Bahá'ís of the World, in Messages from the Universal House of
Justice, 1963–1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 59.2
You represent an army of able and highly motivated servants of the Cause throughout the world. Yours is an
institution which, in one respect, has a particularly intimate relationship with the Universal House of Justice;
in another, it is able to exercise an influence that penetrates the very grassroots of the community. Its nature
fits it, uniquely, to serve as a river of encouragement, example and love whose waters can refresh and
invigorate the spirit of every believer they touch.
Message of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 3, 1998, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors, in
Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1986-2001, no. 265, p. 619.
Counsellors have the duty to stimulate on each continent the expansion and consolidation of the Faith and to
promote the spiritual, intellectual, and social aspects of Bahá’í life. The spiritual health of the community and
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
the vitality of the faith of the individual, the strengthening of the foundations of family life, and the study of
the Teachings …They are likewise concerned with enhancing the capacity of the friends and their institutions
to devise systematic plans of action, to execute them energetically, and to learn from experience in the course
of building the world civilization envisaged by Bahá’u’lláh. In this context promoting a culture of growth
within the Bahá’í community is fundamental to the work of the Counsellors.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 13
As appointees of the Universal House of Justice, the Counsellors assist the Head of the Faith to broaden the
base, foster the strength and ensure the security of the National Spiritual Assemblies and the institutions and
communities under their jurisdiction. Through the Auxiliary Boards, the Counsellors spread the benefits of
their functions to the Local Spiritual Assemblies and the grassroots of the community.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 15
Just as Counsellors have direct consultative relations with National and Local Spiritual Assemblies, so do
they have direct relations with Regional Bahá’í Councils. … National and Local Spiritual Assemblies cannot
give any directions to Auxiliary Board members, much as they depend upon their services. … These few
limitations on the mode of interaction enhance collaboration between the institution of the Counsellors and
Spiritual Assemblies.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 17
Freed from those administrative functions assigned to elected bodies, the Counsellors and Auxiliary Board
members are able to concentrate their energies on the task of promoting adherence to principle on the part of
the individual Bahá’ís, Bahá’í institutions and Bahá’í communities. Their understanding of the Teachings,
together with the wisdom that comes from the experience gained through intimate involvement in the many
aspects of Bahá’í activity, especially qualifies them to offer advice that assists the work of elected bodies.
Further, the fact that they occupy a rank higher than that of the Spiritual Assemblies ensures that they are kept
properly informed and that Spiritual Assemblies give due consideration to their advice and recommendations.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 2
Auxiliary Board Members
The members of the Auxiliary Boards are appointed from among the believers of each continent by the
Continental Board of Counsellors. The members of an Auxiliary Board are responsible individually to the
Board of Counsellors which appoints them.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 9-10
The Auxiliary Board members also have direct contact with Local Spiritual Assemblies, groups, and
individual believers and thus keep current with developments in the community. Naturally, both institutions
welcome all the information that they regularly receive from each other. Direct exchange of information
between National Assemblies or their committees and the Auxiliary Board members is highly desirable.
Reports that contain only news and information can be shared freely among them.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 18
At the heart of the community must function a strong Local Spiritual Assembly. When a community is
blessed with such an institution, the earnest collaboration between the Auxiliary Board members and the
Local Assembly generates the dynamics of a joyous and active life conducive to spiritual transformation and
systematic growth. Together, while each works within the sphere of activity assigned to it, these institutions
create an atmosphere of learning and disciplined behaviour, characterized by patience and forbearance toward
mistakes. They build and maintain unity of thought and action in an environment free of excessive criticism,
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
of backbiting, of conflict and contention, which at the same time welcomes the expression of concern on the
part of every believer. Through wise counsel and loving support, they educate the friends to hearken to the
Assembly’s decisions and to align their behavior with the exigencies of harmonious community life.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 21
The flexibility and ease with which the Counsellors and Auxiliary Board members can respond to a perceived
need in the community -- such as the need for encouragement, explanation of plans, deepening in the
Teachings, protection of the Covenant -- are notable elements of their functioning. This flexibility enables
them to operate as occasions demand, whether it is in giving counsel at a meeting, advising an individual in
private, helping the friends to understand and obey a ruling of the Spiritual Assembly, or dealing with issues
of the Covenant. In all these settings they are able to draw attention to relevant Texts, to impart information,
explore situations, and acquaint themselves with conditions in ways not always possible to a Spiritual
Assembly. They are able then to share with Spiritual Assemblies, as deemed necessary, ideas, analyses,
perceptions and advice, which inevitably enhance the ability of these Assemblies to serve their communities.
Where Local Assemblies are new or weak, Auxiliary Board members encourage them to organize their work.
In all cases, they rally the local believers in support of the Assembly's initiatives. …Through the Auxiliary
Boards, the Counsellors spread the benefits of their functions to the Local Spiritual Assemblies and the
grassroots of the community.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 14-15
Counsellors and their auxiliaries bring to bear on all such administrative processes their ability as individuals
of proven devotion and consecrated spirit. Similarly, they play a vital part in encouraging the friends and in
fostering individual initiative, diversity and freedom of action. In their endeavors they strive to follow in the
footsteps of the Hands of the Cause….
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 3
In the relationship between Auxiliary Board members and Local Spiritual Assemblies, to overstress
distinctions is not only unnecessary but detrimental to the spirit of loving collaboration and encouragement
which is essential to the progress of the Faith in every locality. The differentials of rank, functions or
procedures between agencies of the Bahá’í administration are meant to canalize, not obstruct, the work of the
Cause; all these features of the administration are properly viewed in the context of humble service to the
Blessed Perfection, which is the loftiest objective of all who gather under the banner of the Most Great Name.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 40-41
Regular contact with Local Spiritual Assemblies in the area assigned to an Auxiliary Board member is an
indispensable requirement of his or her functioning. In most areas, frequent consultations are only possible
through assistants. The nature of these consultations, of course, depends on the tasks that the assistant is
carrying out on behalf of the Auxiliary Board member.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 18
An Auxiliary Board member may invite the members of a few neighbouring Local Spiritual Assemblies
within his or her area of responsibility to a conference for consultation on projects or problems affecting
them.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p 44
The plans of action that Regional Councils, Area Teaching Committees and Local Spiritual Assemblies
devise in the ensuing process need to go beyond the mere enumeration of goals to include an analysis of
approaches to be adopted and lines of action to be followed. Indeed, at this level, planning and
implementation must go hand in hand. If learning is to be the primary mode of operation in a community, then
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
visions, strategies, goals and methods have to be re-examined time and again. As tasks are accomplished,
obstacles removed, resources multiplied and lessons learned, modifications have to be made in goals and
approaches, but in a way that continuity of action is maintained.
The involvement of the Auxiliary Board members in this process of design and implementation is
multifaceted. They contribute to deliberations in which the world-wide aims and accomplishments of the
Faith are analysed, the condition of society and the forces operating within it are examined, opportunities and
needs are detected. They bring their knowledge of the Faith to bear on consultations that generate shared
vision and strategies for growth. Their familiarity with the friends and their talents, particularly as these are
developed through the efforts of the training institute, enables them to draw attention to the characteristics of
plans of action that are realistic and within the grasp of the believers. The network of assistants they each can
name provides them with the means for stimulating activity at the local level and following it to completion.
And above all, the love and respect in which they are held create for them the opportunity to act as standard-
bearers and lead the community in action.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 24
All of the institutions and agencies promoting the aim of the current series of global Plans need to exercise
the measure of agility that the birth of such a dynamic process demands.…. In this, as in all their [Auxiliary
Board members] work, they must display breadth of vision and clarity of thought, flexibility and
resourcefulness. They should stand shoulder to shoulder with the friends, supporting them through their
struggles and partaking in their joys. Some of these friends will quickly move to the forefront of activity,
while others will step forward more tentatively; yet, all require support and encouragement, offered not in the
abstract but on the basis of that intimate knowledge which is only acquired by working side by side in the
field of service. Faith in the capacity of every individual who shows a desire to serve will prove essential to
the efforts of those who are to elicit from the believers wholehearted participation in the Plan. Unqualified
love free of paternalism will be indispensable if they are to help turn hesitation into courage born of trust in
God and transform a yearning for excitement into a commitment to long-term action. Calm determination will
be vital as they strive to demonstrate how stumbling blocks can be made stepping stones for progress. And a
readiness to listen, with heightened spiritual perception, will be invaluable in identifying obstacles that may
prevent some of the friends from appreciating the imperative of unified action.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 2010, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counselors
Auxiliary Board Members for Propagation
The primary tasks of the Propagation Boards, however, are to direct the believers’ attention to the goals of
whatever plans have been placed before them, to stimulate and assist them to promote the teaching work in
the fields of proclamation, expansion, consolidation and pioneering, to encourage contributions to the funds,
and to act as standard-bearers of the teachers of the Faith, leading them to new achievements in the diffusion
of God’s Message to their fellow human beings.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 14, 1974, to the Hands of the Cause in the Holy Land, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, no. 355
Auxiliary Board Members for Protection
Further, Shoghi Effendi assigned to the Protection Board the specific duty of watching over the security of
the Faith.  Members of the Auxiliary Board for Protection, as experience shows, also assist in propagating the
Cause, but focus much of their energies on deepening the friends’ knowledge of the Covenant and fostering a
spirit of love and unity. Their efforts contribute significantly to the growth of the Bahá’í community, for the
protection of the Faith is intimately linked to its propagation.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 14
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
The needs in this respect [further means for the development of local Bahá’í communities] will be met in part
by an immediate increase in the membership of the Auxiliary Boards for Protection to equal that of the
Auxiliary Boards for Propagation, so that Protection Board members can directly and systematically assist on
a wide scale the fundamental activities of the community, such as the spiritual nurturing of individual
believers, the participation of women in all aspects of community life, the observance of the Nineteen Day
Feasts and Holy Days, the holding of children’s classes, the fostering of youth activities.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 31, 1995 to the Bahá’ís of the World
See also:
Covenant-breaking — Role of Auxiliary Boards for Protection — Ch. 9
Assisting Local Spiritual Assemblies
The flexibility and ease with which the Counsellors and Auxiliary Board members can respond to a perceived
need in the community — such as the need for encouragement, explanation of plans, deepening in the
Teachings, protection of the Covenant — are notable elements of their functioning. This flexibility enables
them to operate as occasions demand, whether it is in giving counsel at a meeting, advising an individual in
private, helping the friends to understand and obey a ruling of the Spiritual Assembly, or dealing with issues
of the Covenant. In all these settings they are able to draw attention to relevant Texts, to impart information,
explore situations, and acquaint themselves with conditions in ways not always possible to a Spiritual
Assembly. They are able then to share with Spiritual Assemblies, as deemed necessary, ideas, analyses,
perceptions and advice, which inevitably enhance the ability of these Assemblies to serve their communities.
Where Local Assemblies are new or weak, Auxiliary Board members encourage them to organize their work.
In all cases, they rally the local believers in support of the Assembly's initiatives.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 14
All of this opens thrilling opportunities for Local Spiritual Assemblies. Theirs is the challenge, in
collaboration with the Auxiliary Board members who counsel and assist them, to utilize the energies and
talents of the swelling human resources available in their respective areas of jurisdiction both to create a
vibrant community life and to begin influencing the society around them.
Letter of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 17, 2003, to the Bahá’ís of the World
Auxiliary Board members do not direct Local Spiritual Assemblies or individual believers in their activities,
but are entirely free to make suggestions and recommendations they judge wise and necessary. Further, they
help Local Assemblies to achieve the level of spiritual unity, activity and development enjoined in the
writings. It falls on the Auxiliary Board members to build up a warm and loving relationship with Local
Spiritual Assemblies and believers so that they will spontaneously turn to them for advice and assistance.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 40
When a Local Spiritual Assembly begins to function properly, it does not mean it can dispense with the
service and work of Auxiliary Board members and their assistants, who can and should continue to provide
stimulation and inspiration not only generally to the Assembly and local Bahá’í activities, but to individual
believers as well.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 9, 1980, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 147
See also:
Participation — Attendance by Non-Assembly Members — Ch. 4
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
Ch. 6, Community Life
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
Referring Matters to Auxiliary Board Members
In general, it is not the task of Auxiliary Board members, but rather that of the Spiritual Assemblies, to deal
with the personal problems of individuals and conflicts between them and with disciplinary matters.
However, the Auxiliary Board members and their assistants are vital elements of the Bahá’í Administrative
Order, with functions which include the counselling of believers. If a believer approaches an Auxiliary Board
member or an assistant with a personal matter, it is for the Board member or assistant to decide whether to
give advice or ask the believer to turn to the Spiritual Assembly.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors” p. 41
The question has been raised as to how Local Spiritual Assemblies and individual believers are to know
which matters they should refer to which Auxiliary Board member. We feel that this will be worked out at the
local level in the light of experience, and that meanwhile the Assemblies and believers should not concern
themselves unduly about it. They should feel free to refer to either Board, and if the Auxiliary Board member
feels that the matter would better have been referred to his colleague, he can either himself pass the question
on, or suggest the different approach to the Assembly or believer. This is similar to the situation, already
familiar to Board members, when they have referred to them a matter which should properly be dealt with by
a National Spiritual Assembly or one of its committees.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated October 10, 1976, to the International Teaching Center, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1111
Auxiliary Board Members May Not Be Present When Assembly Takes Decisions
One of the fundamental principles of the Bahá'í Administration is that, other than the members of the
Assembly, no one should be present when a decision of the Assembly is being taken. It is a necessary practice
that Assemblies meet with the Hands of the Cause, Counsellors, Auxiliary Board members, or other
individuals, and freely consult with them on different issues and even arrive sometimes at a joint conclusion;
however, only members of an Assembly should be present when a final decision is taken. This principle
applies, of course, to the functioning of other elected or appointed corporate bodies, such as Regional Bahá'í
Councils.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 2, 1997, to an individual believer
Assembly Meeting Minutes May Be Shared with Auxiliary Board Members
Although a National Spiritual Assembly may decide to encourage the Local Spiritual Assemblies under its
jurisdiction to share their minutes with the Auxiliary Board members in their area in order to develop close
communication, Local Assemblies are not required to do so. This is left to their discretion.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, dated  2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors”, p. 39
See also:
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
Assistants to Auxiliary Board Members
[W]e have decided to take a further step in the development of the institution by giving to each Continental
Board of Counsellors the discretion to authorize individual Auxiliary Board members to appoint assistants. …
Their aims should be to activate and encourage Local Spiritual Assemblies, to call the attention of Local
Spiritual Assembly members to the importance of holding regular meetings, to encourage local communities
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
to meet for the Nineteen Day Feasts and Holy Days, to help deepen their fellow-believers’ understanding of
the Teachings, and generally to assist the Auxiliary Board members in the discharge of their duties.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated October 7, 1973, to the Bahá'ís of the World, in Messages from the Universal House
of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 137.3-137.4
It is clear that such a formidable set of responsibilities cannot be discharged properly by one or two
individuals in relation to a growing number of local communities. It is here that the significance of the
freedom given the Auxiliary Board members to name assistants for a wide variety of tasks, to direct them to
lovingly supervise their activities becomes evident. … In a community where the Local Assembly is at the
very early stages of its development, the role of the assistants in promoting the establishment of study groups,
devotional meetings, classes for the spiritual education of children, and the Nineteen Day Feast is even more
crucial. Further, the Auxiliary Board members give attention to strengthening the Local Spiritual Assemblies,
helping them to master the art of consultation, to gain confidence in making decisions, to adhere courageously
to principle, and to learn how to mobilize the friends in unified action.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 22
Assistants may meet with Local Spiritual Assemblies as they pursue the specific tasks assigned to them by
the Board members.  There are, of course, occasions when an Auxiliary member asks an assistant to meet with
an Assembly on a particular matter. …
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 40
Regular contact with Local Spiritual Assemblies in the area assigned to an Auxiliary Board member is an
indispensable requirement of his or her functioning. In most areas, frequent consultations are only possible
through assistants. …
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 18
However, it should not prove difficult for the Local Assembly to begin, concomitant with such efforts and
with encouragement from an assistant to an Auxiliary Board member, to consult as a body on one or two
specific issues with immediate relevance to the life of the community: how the devotional character of the
village is being enhanced through the efforts of individuals who have completed the first institute course; how
the spiritual education of the children is being addressed by teachers raised up by the institute; how the
potential of junior youth is being realized by the programme for their spiritual empowerment; how the
spiritual and social fabric of the community is being strengthened as the friends visit one another in their
homes.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 2010 to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counselors
Assistants, of course, may be assigned any task—simple or complex, general or highly specific—and this
versatility constitutes a distinctive strength. While some assistants might be occupied with the development of
a local community, others might be given tasks that relate to an entire cluster.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 29, 2015, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
An assistant may undertake a specific task requested by a National or Local Spiritual Assembly in his or her
capacity as an individual believer, but not as an assistant.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors,” p. 40
Assistants Can Serve on Administrative Institutions
Appointment of a believer as a Board member’s assistant does not require the resignation of the appointee
from a Spiritual Assembly or a committee. The House of Justice leans towards “assistants” not retiring from
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
administrative work, although in consultation with their Spiritual Assembly it may be quite in order; it would
be preferable, however, for the suggestion to come from the appointee and not from the Spiritual Assembly.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated November 10, 1975, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Do Not Function as Assistants When Acting as Member of Administrative Body
Assistants who are members of a National Assembly or a national committee do not function as assistants in
relation to that body, and they have the same duty to observe the confidentiality of its consultations, and of
matters considered by the Assembly to be confidential, as does any other member. An assistant can, of course,
be a member of a Local Spiritual Assembly, but his task here as an assistant is to help the Spiritual Assembly
to function harmoniously and efficiently in the discharge of its duties and this will hardly succeed if he gives
the Assembly the feeling that he is reporting privately everything it does to the Auxiliary Board member. He
should, on the contrary, do all he can to foster an atmosphere of warm and loving collaboration between the
Local Assembly and the Board member.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 2, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1122
Counselors and Board Members Determine Manner of Support
While the Counsellors and their Auxiliary Boards, in addition to the discharge of their specific
responsibilities, will support the initiatives adopted by a National Spiritual Assembly, the Assembly should
recognize that the Counsellors must be free to determine, according to their own best judgment, in what
manner that support will be given. There is a great difference between the functions of national committees
and Auxiliary Board members in this respect. Whereas the committees may be required by the Assembly to
follow particular procedures, Auxiliary Board members are not similarly bound; yet they should not act in a
manner that undermines the operations of the National Assembly or its agencies. This does not mean that
Auxiliary Board members may not decide, upon request or not, to participate in the execution of a particular
programme or educational project devised by a national committee, or even to contribute towards the
conceptualization and fruition of the project. It does mean, however, that their prerogative to proceed within a
wider latitude than that accessible to the national committee should be respected.
By working at the grassroots of the community, an Auxiliary Board member is often able to satisfy a need not
being met by any national or local programme, but which if dealt with by the Auxiliary Board member will
better equip the local friends to achieve the established goals of the community. Such a flexibility on the part
of the Auxiliary Board member in dealing with immediate situations, such a freedom for independent action,
should be taken for granted by all concerned.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 19, 1994, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Rights and Responsibilities: The
Complementary Roles of the Individual and Institutions, pp. 33-34
Service of Counselors and Board Members on Administrative Institutions
The rank and specific duties of the Counsellors render them ineligible for service on local, regional or
national administrative bodies. Auxiliary Board members are eligible for any elective office but if elected to
such a post on a national, regional or local level must decide whether to retain membership on the Board or
accept the post as they cannot serve in both capacities at the same time.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice,  2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors”, p. 11
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE LOCAL ASSEMBLY AND THE WIDER
COMMUNITY
Assemblies are Channels of God’s Grace
Moreover the Assembly must learn to interact with social and political structures in the locality, gradually
raising consciousness of the presence of the Faith and the influence it is exerting on the progress of the
village.
[L]ocal Spiritual Assemblies in many villages of the world will gradually develop in serving the needs of
communities that embrace larger and larger numbers. As they increasingly manifest their latent capacities and
powers, their members will come to be seen by the inhabitants of each village as ‘the trusted ones of the
Merciful among men”. Thus will these Assemblies become “shining lamps and heavenly gardens, from which
the fragrances of holiness are diffused over all regions, and the lights of knowledge are shed abroad over all
created things. From them the spirit of life streameth in every direction.”
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 2010, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
They cannot be seeking to establish patterns of thought and action that give expression to the principle of
oneness within their community, yet engage in activities in another context which, to whatever extent,
reinforce an entirely different set of assumptions about social existence.  To avoid such a duality, the Bahá’í
community has progressively refined over time, on the basis of the teachings of the Faith, the main features of
its participation in the life of society.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 2, 2013, to the Bahá'ís of Iran
First and foremost, Bahá’ís endeavour, whether as individuals or as a community, to put into practice the
command of Bahá’u’lláh: “They that are endued with sincerity and faithfulness should associate with all the
peoples and kindreds of the earth with joy and radiance, inasmuch as consorting with people hath promoted
and will continue to promote unity and concord, which in turn are conducive to the maintenance of order in
the world and to the regeneration of nations.” It is through “association and meeting”, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has
explained further, that “we find happiness and development, individual and collective.” “That which is
conducive to association and attraction and unity among the sons of men”, He has written in this connection,
“is the means of the life of the world of humanity, and whatever causeth division, repulsion and remoteness
leadeth to the death of humankind.” Even in the case of religion, He has made it clear that it “must be the
cause of love and fellowship. Should religion become the cause of contention and enmity, its absence is
preferable.” So it is that Bahá’ís do their utmost at all times to heed the counsel of Bahá’u’lláh, “Shut your
eyes to estrangement, then fix your gaze upon unity.” “That one indeed is a man”, He exhorts His followers,
“who, today, dedicateth himself to the service of the entire human race.” “Be anxiously concerned with the
needs of the age ye live in,” is His admonition, “and centre your deliberations on its exigencies and
requirements.” “The supreme need of humanity is cooperation and reciprocity,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has indicated.
“The stronger the ties of fellowship and solidarity amongst men, the greater will be the power of
constructiveness and accomplishment in all the planes of human activity.” “So powerful is the light of unity”,
Bahá’u’lláh declares, “that it can illuminate the whole earth.”
It is with such thoughts in mind that Bahá’ís enter into collaboration, as their resources permit, with an
increasing number of movements, organizations, groups and individuals, establishing partnerships that strive
to transform society and further the cause of unity, promote human welfare, and contribute to world solidarity.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 2, 2013, to the Bahá'ís of Iran
When the reach of activity is extensive, the societal impact of the Faith becomes more evident. The Bahá’í
community is afforded higher standing as a distinctive moral voice in the life of a people and is able to
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 1 - Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
contribute an informed perspective to the discourses around it on, say, the development of the younger
generations. Figures of authority from the wider society start to draw on the insight and experience arising
from initiatives of social action inspired by Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings. Conversations influenced by those
teachings, concerned with the common weal, permeate an ever-broader cross section of the population, to the
point where an effect on the general discourse in a locality can be perceived. Beyond the Bahá’í community,
people are coming to regard the Local Spiritual Assembly as a radiant source of wisdom to which they too can
turn for illumination.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 29, 2015, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
The process moves forward in a flexible way as they reflect on the results of experience. The Local Spiritual
Assembly, of course, serves as the voice of moral authority to make certain that, as small groups of
individuals strive to improve conditions, the integrity of their endeavours is not compromised. It also remains
ever vigilant, ensuring that efforts do not run counter to the overall direction in which the community is
moving.
Compilation prepared by the Office of Social and Economic Development at the Bahá’í World Centre, dated November 26, 2012
See also:
Core Activities — Ch. 6
Public Face of the Local Bahá’í Community
The Local Spiritual Assembly is the public face of the Bahá'í community to the wider community. Through its
external affairs efforts the Local Spiritual Assembly ensures the image of the Faith projected is consistent and
dignified, and accurately portrays Bahá'í principle.
Revised April 2016

2. BAHÁ'Í ELECTIONS ....................................................................................................................................................3
ANNUAL BAHÁ'Í ELECTIONS ...................................................................................................................................3
SPIRIT AND CHARACTER OF BAHÁ’Í ELECTIONS ..............................................................................................3
Assembly’s Responsibility to Educate the Believers ............................................................................................4
Responsibility of the Bahá’í Elector ......................................................................................................................4
QUALIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTED.......................................................................................................................6
REPRESENTATION OF MINORITIES DESIRABLE ................................................................................................7
ELECTING NEW MEMBERS ...................................................................................................................................8
ELECTION ELIGIBILITY .............................................................................................................................................8
WHO IS ELIGIBLE TO VOTE OR HOLD OFFICE ...................................................................................................8
Age of Eligibility ....................................................................................................................................................8
Members of Appointed Institutions .......................................................................................................................9
Newly Declared Bahá'ís ........................................................................................................................................9
Residency Requirements .....................................................................................................................................9
Students and Others Who Reside in More Than One Community ............................................................... 10
Where Individuals May Vote When Moving at Riḍván .................................................................................. 10
No Minimum Residency Requirement for Voting .......................................................................................... 10
Change of Community Boundaries May Affect Who is Eligible ..................................................................... 10
Newly Transferred Bahá’ís from Other Countries ......................................................................................... 10
Bahá’ís with Unknown Addresses .................................................................................................................. 11
Verifying Mail Returns..................................................................................................................................... 11
Special Issues ..................................................................................................................................................... 11
People with Physical Handicaps Not Ineligible .............................................................................................. 11
Persons Who Are Mentally and/or Emotionally Impaired ............................................................................... 11
Persons Requesting to Withdraw .................................................................................................................. 12
Reinstatement of Membership ...................................................................................................................... 12
Prisoners ....................................................................................................................................................... 12
ELECTION PROCEDURES ..................................................................................................................................... 12
ELECTION CALL ................................................................................................................................................... 12
Envelope Instructions for Voting .................................................................................................................... 12
Voting Lists .................................................................................................................................................... 13
Tellers ............................................................................................................................................................ 13
Election with Less Than a Quorum ............................................................................................................... 13
Voting ................................................................................................................................................................. 14
Sacred Responsibility .................................................................................................................................... 14
Correct Number of Votes Must Be Cast by Each Voter ................................................................................. 14
Local Spiritual Assembly ........................................................................................................................... 14
Regional Bahá’í Council ............................................................................................................................ 15
Unit Convention ......................................................................................................................................... 15
Absentee Voting ............................................................................................................................................ 15
Assistance in Completing Ballot .................................................................................................................... 15
Tie Votes ........................................................................................................................................................ 15
Minorities ................................................................................................................................................... 16
National Assembly Definition of Racial Minorities for Election Purposes .............................................. 16
Minority Definitions Based on National Pattern ..................................................................................... 17
Counting Ballots ................................................................................................................................................. 17
Mistake in Counting Ballots ........................................................................................................................... 17
Invalid Ballots ................................................................................................................................................ 17
Entire Ballot Invalid .................................................................................................................................... 17
Only Part of Ballot Invalid .......................................................................................................................... 17
Election of a Believer Who Has Moved out of the Community ................................................................. 18
Preservation of Ballots................................................................................................................................... 18
Announcing Election Results ............................................................................................................................. 18
Community Acceptance of Results .................................................................................................................... 18
FORMING THE LOCAL ASSEMBLY ....................................................................................................................... 18
ELECTIONS HELD ON FIRST DAY OF RIḌVÁN ................................................................................................. 19
Revised April 2016

BAHÁ'ÍS IN LOCALITY RESPONSIBLE FOR ELECTING ASSEMBLY ................................................................ 19
ELECTION HELD AT ANNUAL MEETING ............................................................................................................ 20
Preparation for Annual Meeting and Election .................................................................................................... 20
ANNUAL MEETING AND REPORT....................................................................................................................... 21
Setting the Agenda for Annual Meeting ............................................................................................................. 21
Annual Report of the Local Assembly ................................................................................................................ 21
Reports of Task Forces and Other Appointees.............................................................................................. 22
Special Requirements for Incorporated Assemblies ..................................................................................... 22
ASSEMBLY FORMATION BY JOINT DECLARATION .......................................................................................... 23
Re-formation by Joint Declaration ..................................................................................................................... 23
First-time Formation by Joint Declaration .......................................................................................................... 23
Refusal to Participate in Joint Declaration ......................................................................................................... 23
ACTIONS AFTER ANY TYPE OF ASSEMBLY FORMATION ............................................................................... 24
Reporting Annual Election Results .................................................................................................................... 24
Convening the First Meeting .............................................................................................................................. 24
Election of Officers ............................................................................................................................................. 24
Reporting Election of Officers ........................................................................................................................ 25
National Assembly Recognition of Formation .................................................................................................... 25
Automatic Recognition of Assembly Election ................................................................................................ 25
Recognition Ceremony or Announcement for First Formation .......................................................................... 25
ASSEMBLY SERVICE ........................................................................................................................................... 26
Unusual Considerations .................................................................................................................................... 26
Election of a Believer Who Has Requested No Mail ..................................................................................... 26
Election of a Believer Who Has Withdrawn from the Faith ........................................................................... 26
Refusal to Serve ............................................................................................................................................ 27
Resignation from Assembly ........................................................................................................................... 28
Removal of Member ...................................................................................................................................... 29
VACANCIES AND BY-ELECTIONS ....................................................................................................................... 29
When There Are More than Four Vacancies ..................................................................................................... 30
ASSEMBLIES IN JEOPARDY OF DISSOLUTION ................................................................................................ 30
Preparation for Loss of Assembly Status .......................................................................................................... 30
What to Do with Ongoing Personal Status Cases If Assembly Lapses ........................................................ 31
What to Do with Assembly Records If Assembly Lapses .............................................................................. 31
JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARIES OF LOCAL ASSEMBLIES .............................................................................. 31
Definition of a Bahá’í Locality ............................................................................................................................ 31
Bahá’í Boundaries Determined by Civil Boundaries .......................................................................................... 31
Changes in Boundaries ................................................................................................................................. 32
Areas of Jurisdiction of National and Local Spiritual Assemblies ...................................................................... 32
REGIONAL BAHÁ'Í COUNCIL ELECTIONS ........................................................................................................... 33
FORMATION OF REGIONAL BAHÁ’Í COUNCIL .................................................................................................. 33
UNIT CONVENTIONS .............................................................................................................................................. 34
UNIT CONVENTION IN THE ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER .................................................................................... 34
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THE NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY AND ITS OFFICES ...................... 35
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE HOST ASSEMBLY ................................................................................................. 35
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE UNIT CONVENTION PLANNING TEAM ............................................................... 36
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
2. Bahá'í Elections
ANNUAL BAHÁ'Í ELECTIONS
The administrative order which lies embedded in the Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh, and which the American
believers have championed and are now establishing, should, under no circumstances, be identified with the
principles underlying present-day democracies. Nor is it identical with any purely aristocratic or autocratic
form of government.  The objectionable features inherent in each of these political systems are entirely
avoided.  It blends, as no system of human polity has as yet achieved, those salutary truths and beneficial
elements which constitute the valuable contributions which each of these forms of government have made to
society in the past....
Postscript written by the Shoghi Effendi in a letter written on his behalf, dated November 18, 1933, to National Spiritual Assemblies
The Administrative Order of the Cause, though first established in America, copied as a model by other
national Baha'i communities, is not an American production, but is a universal system based on the teachings
of Bahá'u'lláh.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 29, 1938, to an individual believer
Bahá'í elections are the means of establishing Bahá'í administrative structures at local, regional, national and
international levels. Elections of the Local Spiritual Assembly, Regional Bahá’í Council, and of the delegate to
the National Convention (Unit Convention) are held annually.  Bahá'í elections are for Bahá'ís only. To
participate in a Bahá'í election, a believer must be at least 21 years of age and in possession of his or her
administrative rights. Additional criteria apply for regional, national and international elections as described
elsewhere.
SPIRIT AND CHARACTER OF BAHÁ’Í ELECTIONS
The fundamental difference between the system of candidature and the Bahá’í system is that, in the former,
individuals, or those who nominate them, decide that they should be placed in positions of authority and put
themselves forward to be voted into it. In the Bahá’í system it is the mass of the electorate which makes the
decision.  If an individual ostentatiously places himself in the public eye with the seeming purpose of getting
people to vote for him, the members of the electorate regards this as self-conceit and are affronted by it; they
learn to distinguish between someone who is well known as an unintentional result of active public service
and someone who makes an exhibition of himself merely to attract votes.
Memorandum from the Universal House of Justice dated 16 November 1988 to the International Teaching Center in The Sanctity and
Nature of Bahá’í Elections, no. 29, p. 7
The manner of participation by all adult members of the community in these elections is a distinguishing
feature of the System of Bahá’u’lláh; for it is a bounden duty that confers a high privilege upon every Bahá’í
to select, as a responsible citizen of the new world being brought into existence, the composition of the
institutions having authority over the functioning of the Bahá’í community.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 25, 2007, to the Bahá'ís of the World
With concerted worldwide endeavour to advance the process of entry by troops gathering momentum
through implementation of the provisions of the Five Year Plan, it is now opportune that the believers
everywhere give greater attention to strengthening the process by which Assemblies, national and local, are
elected. The manner of participation by all adult members of the community in these elections is a
distinguishing feature of the system of Bahá'u'lláh; for it is a bounden duty that confers a high privilege upon
every Bahá'í to select, as a responsible citizen of the new world being brought into existence, the composition
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
of the institutions having authority over the functioning of the Bahá'í community. In this regard, indifference
and neglect on the part of any believer are alien to the spirit of the Cause. The friends must strive ceaselessly
to avoid being contaminated with these destructive attitudes, which have inflicted such damage on the
integrity and authority of the institutions of a declining world order.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 25, 2007, to the Bahá'ís of the World
Bahá’í electoral procedures and methods have, indeed, for one of their essential purposes the development in
every believer of the spirit of responsibility.  By emphasizing the necessity of maintaining his full freedom in
the elections, they make it incumbent upon him to become an active and well-informed member of the Bahá’í
community in which he lives.
Letter from Shoghi Effendi, dated February 4, 1935, to an individual believer, published in The Light of Divine Guidance: The
Messages from the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith to the Bahá’ís of Germany and Austria, vol. 1, p. 68; cited in the letter of the
Universal House of Justice, dated March 25, 2007, to the Bahá’ís of the World
Assembly’s Responsibility to Educate the Believers
The aim should always be so to educate the friends during the year that they consider their participation in
Bahá'í elections not only as a right they exercise, but as a spiritual obligation which, when discharged in the
proper Bahá'í spirit, contributes to the health and growth of the Bahá'í community.
Memorandum from the Universal House of Justice, dated June 18, 1980, to the International Teaching Centre
It is expected that in the future . . . there will be very large numbers of individuals who have the qualities
which make them fit for service on Spiritual Assemblies.  Of these only a few can be elected at any one time.
It is also expected that, through training and experience in the process and spirit of Bahá’í elections, the
members of the electorate will have raised their consciousness of their responsibility to vote fo only those
who satisfy the requirements that the Guardian has outlined.  They will, therefore, see it as their continuing
duty to familiarize themselves with the character and abilities of those who are active in the community so
that, when the time for an election comes, they will already have some idea of the people from among twhom
they must make their choice.
Memorandum from the Universal House of Justice dated 16 November 1988 to the International Teaching Center in The Sanctity and
Nature of Bahá’í Elections, no. 18, p. 4.
With a heightened awareness of the functions to be performed by the elected body, the believer can properly
assess those for whom a vote should be cast. From among the pool of those whom the elector believes to be
qualified to serve, selection should be made with due consideration given to such other factors as age
distribution, diversity, and gender. The elector should make his choice after careful thought over an extended
period before the actual election.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 25, 2007, to the Bahá'ís of the World
It [the Local Spiritual Assembly] sees to it that gatherings for the Nineteen Day Feast, Holy Day
commemorations, and Bahá’í elections become opportunities to reinforce the high ideals of the community,
strengthen its shared sense of commitment, and fortify its spiritual character. As numbers in the community
grow larger, the Assembly gives thought to when it could be beneficial to decentralize such meetings so as to
facilitate ever-greater participation on these important occasions.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 29, 2015 to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
Responsibility of the Bahá’í Elector
It is expected that in the future … there will be very large numbers of individuals who have the qualities
which make them fit for service....Of these only a few can be elected at any one time.  It is also expected that,
through training and experience in the process and spirit of Bahá’í elections, the members of the electorate
will have raised their consciousness of their responsibility to vote for only those who satisfy the requirements
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
that the Guardian has outlined.  They will, therefore, see it as their continuing duty to familiarize themselves
with the character and abilities of those who are active in the community so that, when the time for an election
comes, they will already have some idea of the people from among whom they must make their choice.
The Universal House of Justice, memorandum to the International Teaching Center dated 16 November 1988
I feel that reference to personalities before the election would give rise to misunderstanding and differences.
What the friends should do is to get thoroughly acquainted with one another, to exchange views, to mix freely
and discuss among themselves the requirements and qualifications for such a membership without reference
or application, however indirect, to particular individuals. We should refrain from influencing the opinion of
others, of canvassing for any particular individual, but should stress the necessity of getting fully acquainted
with the qualifications of membership referred to in our Beloved’s Tablets and of learning more about one
another through direct, personal experience rather than through the reports and opinions of our friends.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá'í Administration, p. 47
[Y]ou should choose those women and men who, through their proven experience in the activities of the
Plan, their capacity to participate in the learning process, and their upright character and constructive
attitudes, can best advance the process of entry by troops in the various provinces. Much will depend on the
quality of your deliberations, which should be carried out in a true Bahá’í spirit, standing humbly in the
presence of Bahá’u’lláh, forgoing self-interest and all partisan concerns, and thinking only of the best interests
of the Faith that you all hold dear.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 27, 2005, to a National Spiritual Assembly
To be able to make a wise choice at the election time, it is necessary for him to be in close and continued
contact with all local activities, be they teaching, administrative or otherwise, and to fully and whole-
heartedly participate in the affairs of the local as well as national committees and assemblies in his country…
Bahá’í community life thus makes it a duty for every loyal and faithful believer to become an intelligent,
well-informed and responsible elector, and also gives him the opportunity of raising himself to such a station.
And since the practice of nomination hinders the development of such qualities in the believer, and in addition
leads to corruption and partisanship, it has to be entirely discarded in all Bahá’í elections.
Letter from Shoghi Effendi, dated 4 February 1935 to an individual believer, published in The Light of Divine Guidance, vol. 1, p. 68
A believer has the right to vote for himself during the election time, if he conscientiously feels the urge to do
so. This does not necessarily imply that he is ambitious or selfish. For he might conscientiously believe that
his qualifications entitle him to membership in a Bahá’í administrative body, and he might be right. The
essential, however, is that he should be sincere in his belief, and should act according to the dictates of his
conscience.
Moreover, membership in an assembly or committee is a form of service, and should not be looked upon as a
mark of inherent superiority or a means for self-praise.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 27, 1938, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 43
One’s vote should be kept confidential. It is not permissible to make any reference whatsoever to individual
names. The friends must avoid the evil methods and detestable practices of the politicians. They must turn
completely to God, and with a purity of motive, a freedom of spirit and a sanctity of heart, participate in the
elections; otherwise the outcome will be chaos and confusion, serious difficulties will ensue, mischief will
abound and the confirmation of God will be cut off.
Letter from Shoghi Effendi, dated January 16, 1932, to the friends in Persia, in Lights of Guidance, no. 44
On the election day, the friends must wholeheartedly participate in the elections, in unity and amity, turning
their hearts to God, detached from all things but Him, seeking His guidance and supplicating His aid and
bounty.
Letter from Shoghi Effendi, dated February 27, 1923, to the Bahá'ís of the East, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 706
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
Let us recall His explicit and often-repeated assurances that every Assembly elected in that rarefied
atmosphere of selflessness and detachment is, in truth, appointed of God, that its verdict is truly inspired, that
one and all should submit to its decision unreservedly and with cheerfulness.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 65
The elector … is called upon to vote for none but those whom prayer and reflection have inspired him to
uphold. Moreover, the practice of nomination, so detrimental to the atmosphere of a silent and prayerful
election, is viewed with mistrust, inasmuch as it gives the right … to deny that God-given right of every
elector to vote only in favor of those who he is conscientiously convinced are the most worthy candidates.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 136
QUALIFICATIONS OF THE ELECTED
Election to an Assembly, from a Bahá’í point of view, is not a right that people are entitled to, or an honor to
which they should aspire; it is a duty and responsibility to which they may be called.  The purpose is that
those who are elected to an Assembly should be the most worthy for this service; this does not and cannot
mean that all those who are worthy will be elected.
Memorandum from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 16, 1988, to the International Teaching Centre, in The Sanctity
and Nature of Bahá’í Elections, no. 18, p. 4
Foremost is the election of the members of your . . . Assembly, when you will choose individuals who can
meet the pressing requirements of the progress of the Cause at the present stage of its development.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 16, 2013, to the delegates gathered at Bahá’í National Conventions
Due regard must be paid to their actual capacity and present attainments, and only those who are best
qualified for membership, be they men or women, and irrespective of social standing, should be elected to the
extremely responsible position of a member of the Bahá’í Assembly.
Letter from Shoghi Effendi, dated December 27, 1923
They should disregard personalities and concentrate their attention on the qualities and requirements of
office, without prejudice, passion or partiality. The Assembly should be representative of the choicest and
most varied and capable elements in every Bahá’í community.
Letter from Shoghi Effendi, dated August 11, 1933
It is incumbent upon the chosen delegates to consider without the least trace of passion and prejudice, and
irrespective of any material consideration, the names of only those who can best combine the necessary
qualities of unquestioned loyalty, of selfless devotion, of a well-trained mind, of recognized ability and
mature experience.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 88
[Y]ou should choose those women and men who, through their proven experience in the activities of the
Plan, their capacity to participate in the learning process, and their upright character and constructive
attitudes, can best advance the process of entry by troops in the various provinces. Much will depend on the
quality of your deliberations, which should be carried out in a true Bahá’í spirit, standing humbly in the
presence of Bahá’u’lláh, forgoing self-interest and all partisan concerns, and thinking only of the best interests
of the Faith that you all hold dear.
Letter dated 27 October 2005 written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, to the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
If we but turn our gaze to the high qualifications of the members of Bahá’í Assemblies … we are filled with
feelings of unworthiness and dismay, and would feel truly disheartened but for the comforting thought that if
we rise to play nobly our part, every deficiency in our lives will be more than compensated by the all-
conquering spirit of His grace and power.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 88
In regard to your question about qualifications of delegates and Assembly members: the qualifications which
he outlined are really applicable to anyone we elect to a Bahá’í office, whatever its nature. But these are only
an indication, they do not mean people who don’t fulfill them cannot be elected to office. We must aim as
high as we can.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 24, 1947, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no 27
[C]oncerning the qualifications of the members of the spiritual assembly; there is a distinction of
fundamental importance which should be always remembered in this connection, and this is between the
spiritual assembly as an institution, and the persons who comprise it. These are by no means supposed to be
perfect, nor can they be considered as being inherently superior to the rest of their fellow-believers. It is
precisely because they are subject to the same human limitations that characterize the other members of the
community that they have to be elected every year. The existence of elections is a sufficient indication that
assembly members, though forming part of an institution that is divine and perfect, are nevertheless
themselves imperfect. But this does not necessarily imply that their judgment is defective. For as Άbdu’l-Bahá
has repeatedly emphasized Bahá’í assemblies are under the guidance and protection of God. The elections,
specially when annual, give the community a good opportunity to remedy any defect or imperfection from
which the assembly may suffer as a result of the actions of its members. Thus a safe method has been
established whereby the quality of membership in Bahá’í assemblies can be continually raised and improved.
But, as already stated, the institution of the spiritual assembly should under no circumstances be identified
with, or be estimated merely through, the personal qualifications of the members that compose it.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated November 15, 1935, to an individual believer, in The Local Spiritual Assembly: An
Institution of the Baha'i Administrative Order, A Compilation, p. 6
REPRESENTATION OF MINORITIES DESIRABLE
Bearing in mind the extreme desirability of having the minority elements participate and share responsibility
in the conduct of Bahá’í activity, it should be the duty of every Bahá’í community so to arrange its affairs that
in cases where individuals belonging to the diverse minority elements within it are already qualified and
fulfill the necessary requirements, Bahá’í representative institutions, be they Assemblies, conventions,
conferences, or committees, may have represented on them as many of these diverse elements, racial or
otherwise, as possible.
Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, pp. 35-36
[I] do not feel it to be in keeping with the spirit of the Cause to impose any limitation upon the freedom of
the believers to choose those of any race, nationality or temperament who best combine the essential
qualifications for membership of administrative institutions. They should disregard personalities and
concentrate their attention on the qualities and requirements of office, without prejudice, passion or partiality.
The Assembly should be representative of the choicest and most varied and capable elements in every Bahá’í
community.
Letter from Shoghi Effendi, dated August 11, 1933, to an individual believer, quoted in Extracts from the Guardian’s Letters on the
Spiritual Character of Bahá’í Elections, p. 3
See also:
Voting — Minorities— Ch. 2
Considerations for Diverse Populations — Ch. 6
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
ELECTING NEW MEMBERS
Shoghi Effendi has never said that the members of the National Assembly have to be renewed partially every
year. The important thing is that they should be properly elected. It would be nice if there should be new
members elected, for new blood always adds to the energy of the group and will keep up their spirit. But this
depends entirely upon the will of the delegates as represented in the result of their voting.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated April 27, 1932, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 63
There is no objection in principle to an Assembly being re-elected whether in toto or in part, provided the
members are considered to be well qualified for that post. It is individual merit that counts. Novelty, or the
mere act of renewal of elections, are purely secondary considerations. Changes in Assembly membership
would be welcome so far as they do not prejudice the quality of such membership.
Shoghi Effendi, Directives from the Guardian, pg. 24
He was very happy to see that changes had been made in membership of the N.S.A. this year, not from any
reasons of personality, but because change itself is good and brings a fresh outlook into the discussions of any
assembly. He was also pleased to see that these changes involved more younger people being on the N.S.A.;
with the tremendous amount of work which this … Plan is going to involve, this will be a great help to the
older members of that body.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated May 21, 1946, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II,
no. 1449
ELECTION ELIGIBILITY
Bahá'í elections are the means of establishing Bahá'í administrative structures at local, regional, national and
international levels. Bahá'í elections are for Bahá'ís only. Additional criteria apply for regional, national and
international elections as indicated.
WHO IS ELIGIBLE TO VOTE OR HOLD OFFICE
All Bahá’ís in the jurisdiction who are over the age of 21 may vote or hold office other than those listed below
and those detailed in the following sections.
•
Believers deprived of their voting rights
•
Believers who are applying to have their membership reinstated after having withdrawn but have not
yet received approval from the National Assembly
•
Believers who have transferred in from outside the continental United States but whose transfer of
membership has not been confirmed by the National Assembly
•
Believers who are serving prison sentences
•
Those new believers in special “exception populations” whose declarations need approval by the
National Spiritual Assembly but who have not yet been approved.
•
Individuals who have declared but whose declaration has been denied
•
Those not meeting residency requirements
•
Continental Counselors
Age of Eligibility
Upon attaining the age of twenty-one years, a Bahá’í is eligible to vote and to hold elective office.
Articles of Incorporation, Constitution, and By-Laws of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States: By-Laws
of a Local Spiritual Assembly, Article V
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
Members of Appointed Institutions
The rank and specific duties of the Counsellors render them ineligible for service on local, regional or
national administrative bodies. Auxiliary Board members are eligible for any elective office but if elected to
such a post on a national, regional or local level must decide whether to retain membership on the Board or
accept the post as they cannot serve in both capacities at the same time.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, dated 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors”, p. 11
[A]uxiliary Board members are eligible to be elected. Therefore, a ballot should not be invalidated because
it contains the name of a member of an Auxiliary Board. The basic principle involved is that the Board
member himself must decide whether or not to accept his election. As you have stated in your letter, if the
membership in a Bahá’í community drops to nine, including the Auxiliary Board member resident there, the
Auxiliary Board member may serve temporarily as a member of the Assembly to preserve its Assembly
status.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 25, 1966, to a National Spiritual Assembly, cited in the compilation Auxiliary
Board Members, in Lights of Guidance, no. 293
Believers can serve at the same time both as assistants to Auxiliary Board members and on administrative
institutions.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated October 7, 1973, to the Bahá’ís of the World, in Messages from the Universal House
of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 137.4
Newly Declared Bahá'ís
Newly declared Bahá’ís are eligible to vote in an election or to be elected to a Local Spiritual Assembly prior
to approval by the National Assembly, although, if elected, they must have their enrollment approved before
the election can be confirmed. The exception to this guidance is believers who belong to certain populations
whose enrollment involves additional procedures. A list of these populations and the procedures for their
enrollment is in the Membership chapter under “Exception Populations” and “Special Enrollment Procedures”.
See also:
Election Call — Voting Lists — Ch. 2
Summary of the Enrollment Process — Exception Populations — Ch. 5
Details of Enrollment Process — Steps 3 and 4 - Acceptance of Declaration/Registration — Ch. 5
Special Enrollment Procedures — Ch.5
Residency Requirements
To count as a member of a local Bahá’í community for the purpose of forming or maintaining the Local
Spiritual Assembly, a believer must be resident in that area of jurisdiction on the First Day of Riḍván. This is
the principle. What constitutes “residence” is a secondary matter for each National Spiritual Assembly to
decide.
It is, moreover, not essential for a person to be physically present to be a resident. There are many instances of
a sailor or salesman who spends most of his time moving from place to place but who is indisputably resident
in the town where his family lives. All such matters must be decided by the National Spiritual Assembly in the
light of the circumstances of each case within the general framework of the definition of “residence” that it
adopts.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 18, 1985, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 20
Only those who physically reside within the boundaries of an established locality have the right to either vote
for or be elected to the Assembly. A believer living outside the limits, even if he or she has a business and/or
mailing address within the city, may not be considered a part of that locality.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
See also:
Election Call — Voting Lists — Ch. 2
Students and Others Who Reside in More Than One Community
[F]or example, it may be that a university student spends some six months of the year in the town where his
university is, and the other half-year in the home of his parents. In such a case it is normal to permit him to
choose which of the two places is to count as his residence for Bahá’í purposes; one cannot count as being
“resident” in two places at once.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 18, 1985, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 20
If a believer resides in more than one locality, the locality in which the believer resides for the longest period
of time (e.g., seven out of the twelve months) should be considered the community in which he or she is
eligible to vote and serve on the Assembly. If the length of time spent at each residence is approximately the
same, the believer may choose the community in which to hold membership. The individual’s residential
address in the National Membership Database should be within the civil boundaries of the locality in which he
or she chooses to vote.
Where Individuals May Vote When Moving at Riḍván
It is the policy of the National Spiritual Assembly that an individual who is planning to move to a new
community may be counted for election purposes as a member of the new community, even though they do
not physically reside there by Riḍván, only if the following conditions are met:
•
the purpose of the move is to prevent the loss of an Assembly or to assist with the formation of an
Assembly that would not be able to form otherwise
•
the believer has made a firm commitment, such as obtaining a lease or putting a down payment on a
house
•
he or she will be physically residing in the community within 90 days
If the move is not to save or form an Assembly, then the believer should be considered a resident of his or her
current community and may vote in its election, even if he or she is moving immediately thereafter. The
believer may not vote in both communities.
No Minimum Residency Requirement for Voting
There is no minimum amount of time Bahá’ís must be residents of a community before they can participate in
a Bahá’í election. If they move to a community the day of an election, they may participate in it, as long as
they are making their home in that community and fulfill other eligibility requirements.
Change of Community Boundaries May Affect Who is Eligible
Bahá’í community membership is often affected by civil boundary changes, and because of this, those who
are eligible to serve on the Assembly one year may not be members of the same community the next year.
The National Spiritual Assembly should be notified of all civil boundary changes. No change in a membership
list resulting from civil boundary changes should be made until the National Assembly approves or
acknowledges the changes.
Newly Transferred Bahá’ís from Other Countries
Bahá’ís in the process of transferring from other countries may be eligible to vote or be elected, depending on
various conditions outlined in the section “International Membership Transfers”.
See also:
Credentials of Bahá'ís from Other Countries — Visitors from Iran without Credentials — Ch. 5
Transfer into the United States — Policies on Administrative Participation during Transfer of Membership — Ch. 5
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
Bahá’ís with Unknown Addresses
If a community’s membership data includes the name of a Bahá’í whose mail has been returned, the
Assembly should not remove his or her name from the database or voting list unless it has been verified that
the person no longer lives in the community. Every effort should be made to locate the individual or to verify
that he or she has moved out of the community.
See also:
Election Call — Voting Lists— Ch. 2
Ways and Means to View and Update Data — eMembership2 — Ch. 5
Guidelines for Understanding and Updating Membership Data — Where to Search for a Correct Address — Ch. 5
Verifying Mail Returns
Mail is returned to the National Bahá'í Center by the United States Post Office for a variety of reasons. When
it is received back, that address is entered in the National Database as a “mail return.” The Local Spiritual
Assembly or registered group is asked to try to verify the addresses of these believers.
Once a community has verified that a person no longer lives at the last known address and has no forwarding
information, the Local Assembly through eMembership2 should use the 'Remove From List' function or notify
the Office of Membership and Records, which will remove the name from the local membership list. However,
the person’s name and last known address are still retained on the National Membership Database.
See also:
Ways and Means to View and Update Data — Ch. 5
Contacts and Supplies — Ch. 5
Special Issues
People with Physical Handicaps Not Ineligible
In view of the spiritual principles which must guide the elector in selecting those he feels are best fitted to
serve on the Assembly, and to preserve the unfettered freedom of the voter, a believer should not be arbitrarily
considered ineligible for Assembly membership because of physical handicaps. The handicapped person,
seemingly incapable of taking part in consultation, may in fact be able to function quite adequately, provided
his fellow Assembly members are determined to find ways in which they can help him to participate. In the
Bahá’í community for anyone to be elected, a sufficient number of voters must have prayerfully considered
that believer fitted to serve. If the elected Assembly finds that one of its members is unable to function, the
question of declaring a vacancy may be considered.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 15, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Considerations for Diverse Populations — People with Disabilities — Ch. 6
Persons Who Are Mentally and/or Emotionally Impaired
If a believer is incapable of voting or serving on an Assembly due to a mental impairment, the Assembly
should write to the National Assembly, recommending that the person be relieved of administrative service.
Until the National Assembly approves the recommendation, the person should be included on the voting list.
See also:
Irresponsible Behavior — Ch. 10
Medical Matters — Mental Illness — Ch. 14
Medical Matters — Diminished Mental Capacity — Ch. 14
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
Persons Requesting to Withdraw
If a person has asked to withdraw from the Faith but the community has not received notice from the National
Spiritual Assembly that the withdrawal has been officially accepted, the person is still considered a member of
the community, and his or her name should be included on the voting list.
Reinstatement of Membership
A person who has previously withdrawn and wishes to be reinstated to Bahá’í membership is eligible to vote
in an election only after the reinstatement has been approved by the National Spiritual Assembly. The Local
Spiritual Assembly should send its recommendation to the National Assembly, which will then notify the Local
Assembly upon approval of the reinstatement.
See also:
Election Call — Voting Lists— Ch. 2
Withdrawal From and Reinstatement of Membership — Ch. 5
Prisoners
You are free to accept declarations of faith from inmates of a prison, but their participation as voting
believers can take place only after they have been discharged from prison. The fact of having been in prison
does not deprive a Bahá’í from exercising his voting rights when he is released and there is no need for a
probationary period. However, if there is some other factor which would indicate to the National Assembly
that in a particular case the voting rights should be suspended, the National Assembly may then exercise its
discretion.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 8, 1969, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 263
See also:
Bahá’í Prisoners — Ch. 14
ELECTION PROCEDURES
ELECTION CALL
An election call letter should be distributed individually by hand or mail to all adult believers who are eligible to
vote in the Assembly’s jurisdiction, with the exception of those who have requested not to be contacted, no
less than fifteen days prior to the election. While the election call should not be sent by email, election notes
or reminders may be emailed as supplements to the call. The election call should include:
•
Clear instructions about when and where the election will take place
•
A ballot with places to enter exactly nine names
•
Instructions for voting in person or by absentee ballot
Failure to notify the community of an election fifteen days prior to the meeting will not necessarily invalidate
the election. If steps are taken to ensure that eligible voters are notified of the meeting, the election can still
take place and an Assembly should form and begin functioning. However, the Assembly should submit a letter
to the National Spiritual Assembly explaining the situation, including the reason why this requirement was not
met. The National Assembly will review the case and decide whether the formation will be recognized.
Envelope Instructions for Voting
Each ballot, both in-person and absentee, should be conveyed to the tellers in a small envelope that is
unlabeled in any way. However, an absentee ballot should be received by the tellers in a large envelope that
has the voter's name written on the outside and contain within it the smaller unmarked envelope.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
The smaller envelope (the inner envelope) is meant to contain the ballot itself after voting and should always
be left blank on the outside. The voter should be cautioned not to mark this envelope in any way, as any mark
identifying the voter would render the entire ballot invalid.
The larger envelope (the outer envelope) is meant to securely transport the inner envelope (containing the
completed ballot) to the chief teller and to identify the voter. It should show the name of the voter, his or her
legal place of residence, and be marked “Ballot”.
Voting Lists
Concerning the distribution and use of a voting list during Bahá’í elections, there is no requirement that such
a list be circulated. Instructions to the believers on their responsibilities as electors emphasize the need to give
careful consideration, over an extended period of time, to those best qualified to serve, rather than merely
consulting a list of names at the time balloting is to occur. Nor should a Spiritual Assembly insist on including
the name of a believer on a list to which he strongly objects.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 29, 2003, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The voting list for each election is comprised of the names of all Bahá’ís who are eligible to vote and hold
elected office, including those who may have requested to receive no mail. If a list of those eligible for election
is mailed, updates to it should be announced prior to voting.
See also:
Assembly Formation by Joint Declaration— Ch. 2
Ch. 5, Community Membership
Tellers
The tellers are appointed by the outgoing Spiritual Assembly. Any Bahá’í, adult or youth (15 years and older),
in good standing may serve as teller; however, the chief teller should be an adult 21 years of age or older. The
task includes:
•
Obtaining from the Assembly Secretary all absentee ballots sent ahead of time and bringing them
unopened to the election meeting. The Secretary should check for last minute ballots before going to
the election.
•
Posting the membership list, if one is to be used.
•
Explaining the election process to the assembled voters
•
Collecting ballots at the election meeting
•
Counting ballots
•
Making certain that the ballots are valid
•
Recording the results of the election
•
Reporting the results to those gathered for the election meeting
•
Submitting a fully completed report form to the Local Spiritual Assembly.
•
Turn over ballots to the Local Assembly after the election
In addition, the chief teller is responsible for organizing the work of the tellers, announcing the results of the
election, ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the report, and signing the completed form.
Election with Less Than a Quorum
No quorum is required in the holding of an election for a Local Spiritual Assembly. This rule also applies in
the case of by-elections. The mere fact that less than nine vote for the members of the Local Spiritual
Assembly does not invalidate the election.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
As you know, the National Assembly can always look into the circumstances surrounding a Local Spiritual
Assembly election and use its discretion in determining whether, considering all circumstances, the existence
of the Local Spiritual Assembly should be recognized.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated April 16, 1969, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 41
As long as all eligible voters are properly notified of the election meeting and a minimum of five votes are
cast, the Assembly should still form. However, a description of any unusual or extenuating circumstances
should be submitted to the National Assembly along with its Election Report Form. The information will be
reviewed, and a decision will be made on whether to recognize the Assembly’s formation. In the meantime,
those elected should begin to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the Assembly.
See also:
ELECTIONS HELD ON FIRST DAY OF RIḌVÁN— Ch. 2
Reporting Annual Election Results— Ch. 2
Voting
Sacred Responsibility
These local Spiritual Assemblies will have to be elected directly by the friends, and every declared believer
of twenty-one years and above, far from standing aloof and assuming an indifferent or independent attitude,
should regard it his sacred duty to take part conscientiously and diligently in the election, the consolidation
and the efficient working of his own local Assembly.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 39
I feel I must reaffirm the vital importance and necessity of the right of voting — a sacred responsibility of
which no adult recognized believer should be deprived, unless he is associated with a community that has not
as yet been in a position to establish a Local Assembly. This distinguishing right which the believer possesses,
however, does not carry with it nor does it imply an obligation to cast his vote, if he feels that the
circumstances under which he lives do not justify or allow him to exercise that right intelligently and with
understanding. This is a matter which should be left to the individual to decide himself according to his own
conscience and discretion.
Shoghi Effendi, This Decisive Hour: Messages from Shoghi Effendi to the North American Bahá'ís, 1932-1946, par. 15.1
The manner of participation by all adult members of the community in these elections is a distinguishing
feature of the System of Bahá’u’lláh; for it is a bounden duty that confers a high privilege upon every Bahá’í
to select, as a responsible citizen of the new world being brought into existence, the composition of the
institutions having authority over the functioning of the Bahá’í community. … [I]ndifference and neglect on
the part of any believer are alien to the spirit of the Cause.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 25, 2007, to the Bahá’ís of the World
Correct Number of Votes Must Be Cast by Each Voter
Local Spiritual Assembly
Inasmuch as Spiritual Assembly membership, according to the principles of Bahá’í Administration, has been
limited for the present to nine members, it follows that no electoral vote can be effective unless it is cast for
exactly that number. It is, therefore, the sacred duty of every Bahá’í elector to cast nine votes, neither more
nor less, except under special circumstances so as to insure that the results of the elections for the Spiritual
Assembly will be effective and on as wide a basis of representation as possible.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá'í Administration, p. 47
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
Regional Bahá’í Council
The members of an elected Regional Bahá'í Council, who shall be nine in number, are elected from among all
the adult believers in the region by the members of the Local Spiritual Assemblies in that region every year…
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 30, 1997, to all National Spiritual Assemblies
In the United States, the annual election of Regional Bahá’í Councils by members of Local Spiritual
Assemblies in the region occurs in October and early in November and the election results are announced by
the National Spiritual Assembly so members may begin their service on the Day of the Covenant.
Unit Convention
In Unit Convention elections, one delegate is elected, except in certain units where more than one delegate is
allotted: Los Angeles–5, New York City and San Diego–2, Eastern South Carolina–8
Absentee Voting
The same procedure in voting should be followed, namely, the ballot should be placed and sealed in an
unmarked inner envelope and that envelope placed in an outer envelope marked with the name of the voter.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 21, 1973, to all National Spiritual Assemblies
Those Bahá’ís who are unable to be present at the election may mail in their ballot, or send it with a Bahá’í
who will attend the meeting, using the same voting procedures as described elsewhere. If mailed, the
absentee ballot should be mailed far enough in advance to ensure its receipt prior to the election date. If an
individual unexpectedly cannot attend the election, he or she may call whomever the Assembly has
designated to accept ballots by phone (usually the chief teller). This should be counted as an “in person” vote
on the Tellers’ Report. Email voting is not permitted due to the inability to make sure such a ballot is both valid
and anonymous.
Assistance in Completing Ballot
If a person is unable to fill out a ballot form (for example, believers who lack sufficient English proficiency or
are blind) she or he may contact a person designated by the Local Assembly to accept the ballots (usually the
chief teller or the secretary of the Assembly) for assistance. The Local Assembly should make arrangements
for someone to complete the ballot according to the desire of the person in this situation. The Assembly
should select a person of great confidence for this task and impress upon him or her the need for
confidentiality. It may be useful to select a youth to assist in this way given that he or she is ineligible for
election.
Tie Votes
A tie vote occurs in the election of an Assembly when two or more persons receive the same number of votes
and there are more persons voted for in the tie than there are remaining openings on the Assembly. Examples
are a tie between two people for the ninth opening on the Assembly or a tie between three people for the
eighth and ninth openings.
A second ballot to break the tie should be cast by those present at the election meeting. A situation may arise,
however, where only a few members of the community are still present when the results are announced. If the
outgoing Local Assembly members who are present feel that the number of remaining participants is so low
that any such vote would not be representative, a balloting to break a tie vote may be held shortly after the
first day of Riḍván.
Whether the balloting to break the tie takes place at the election meeting or later, each voter should vote for
the same number of people as there are remaining positions on the Assembly. For instance, if two people are
tied for the ninth position then voters select one of them, if three people are tied for the eighth and ninth
position one votes for two of those tied. No other names should be introduced on the ballot.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
There is an exception to this procedure. If one of the persons involved in the tie represents a racial minority,
as defined by the National Spiritual Assembly, that person should be given priority without question. If more
than one person involved in the tie represents a racial minority, a re-vote should be held to choose among
those racial minorities who have tied.
In case by reason of a tie vote or votes the full membership of an elected body is not determined on the first
ballot, then one or more additional ballots shall be taken on the persons tied until all members are elected.
Universal House of Justice, The Constitution of the Universal House of Justice, Article VI
Regarding your question about the breaking of tie votes, a balloting to break such a tie vote for members of a
Spiritual Assembly may be held after the first day of Riḍván if necessary, but obviously the day of balloting
should not be delayed too long.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 4, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 47
See also:
Representation of Minorities Desirable— Ch. 2
Minorities
If any discrimination is at all to be tolerated, it should be a discrimination not against, but rather in favor of
the minority, be it racial or otherwise. … So great and vital is this principle that in such circumstances, as
when an equal number of ballots have been cast in an election, or where the qualifications for any office are
balanced between the various races, faiths or nationalities within the community, priority should
unhesitatingly be accorded the party representing the minority, and this for no other reason except to stimulate
and encourage it, and afford it an opportunity to further the interests of the community.
Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, p. 35
There are so many varieties of situations which can occur in respect to minorities, and in so many different
circumstances in different parts of the world, that it is impossible to lay down a hard and fast rule. The two
guiding principles are the beloved Guardian’s statement, which is well known to you, and it’s concomitant
that whenever there is doubt as to what is a minority or whether all other matters are equal a re-vote should be
taken.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 27, 1973, to a National Spiritual Assembly
National Assembly Definition of Racial Minorities for Election Purposes
[T]he definition of a minority in any locality is in the discretion of the National Spiritual Assembly. It is
clear that pioneers from other lands should not be regarded as belonging to a minority, neither do the
categories quoted by the Guardian in The Advent of Divine Justice, namely, “faith, race, class or nation,”
include sex. The overriding principle is always that if there is any doubt as to whether the minority principle
should be invoked, then a further ballot should be taken.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated March 5, 1986, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 84
The National Spiritual Assembly has established that the question of what constitutes a minority for the
purpose of resolving tie votes in Bahá’í elections must be determined primarily according to race. At this time,
the criteria used to determine a racial minority are those established at the national level by the United States
government. The United States federal government defines the following groups as racial minorities:
American Indian/Alaska Native, Asian, Black/African American, and Native Hawaiian/other Pacific Islander.
The National Assembly considers individuals of mixed race to be minorities.
While the United States federal government no longer considers Latinos/Hispanics as a racial category given
that people of this ethnicity can be of any racial group, for the purposes of Bahá’í elections, it is the policy of
the National Assembly to give preference in tie-breaking to individuals from this background in addition to the
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
aforementioned racial groups. The intent of the Guardian was that selecting a minority in a tie vote situation
would be a means to encourage the friends in their efforts to overcome discrimination. Given the many
disadvantages encountered by Latinos/Hispanics in the United States and the long history of prejudice
against them, it has been decided that inclusion of this group fits the spirit and intent of the guidance. At this
point, it is not seen that inclusion of other ethnic groups, such as Persians, is in keeping with this intent.
Minority Definitions Based on National Pattern
The categories for tie-breaking are based upon national patterns and apply regardless of the racial/ethnic
breakdown of an individual Bahá’í community or in a specific governmental jurisdiction. For example, if there
is a tie vote between a Caucasian believer and a Hispanic believer, and the majority of the Bahá’í community
consists of Hispanic believers, the Hispanic believer would be considered a minority and, thereby, elected to
the Local Spiritual Assembly.
Counting Ballots
It is for your National Assembly to determine how to properly instruct the delegates beforehand in the
recording of identical names on ballots and to give the tellers guidelines for handling these questions when
they arise in the counting of the ballots. Thereafter, it is for the tellers to make the decision and give the
results to the Convention or Assembly.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 21, 1971, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 80
Mistake in Counting Ballots
In the event a mistake in counting ballots occurs that is not discovered until after the election, the new
Assembly should meet as soon as possible to correct it using the ballots which should have been maintained.
If the error involves unopened ballots, they should be opened in the presence of the convened Assembly.
When the ballots are recounted and a tie occurs that cannot be resolved through the principle of giving the tie
to a person from a minority group, then a by-election must be held to break the tie.
Whether or not a by-election becomes necessary, should correcting the error result in a change in Assembly
membership, the corrected results must be reported as soon as possible to the community and to the National
Spiritual Assembly.
See Also:
Tie Votes— Ch. 2
Vacancies and By-elections— Ch. 2
Invalid Ballots
Entire Ballot Invalid
Under certain conditions an entire ballot may be declared invalid. These are: (1) More than nine names on
ballot paper; (2) Less than nine names on ballot paper; (3) Duplication of names.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 29, 1971 to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 82
Only Part of Ballot Invalid
Under other conditions, because of specified irregularities, one or more of the names may be invalidated but
the rest of the ballot would be considered valid. These irregularities are: (1) A name not identifiable, or
illegible; (2) The name of an ineligible person, such as a youth or person not resident in the jurisdiction of the
voting area, provided of course that each ballot contains no more or less than nine names and no name has
been duplicated.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 29, 1971 to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 82
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
This includes someone who has withdrawn from the Faith prior to the annual meeting.
Election of a Believer Who Has Moved out of the Community
If, after the Assembly is elected, it is discovered that a person elected to the Assembly moved out of that
community prior to the election, then the votes cast for that individual must be considered invalid. The person
with the next highest number of votes will become a member of the Assembly.
Preservation of Ballots
The Local Spiritual Assembly should consider maintaining the completed ballots for six months after the
election in the event that any questions might arise. After that time it is within the discretion of the Local
Assembly to determine the disposition of the used ballots.
Announcing Election Results
As to whether a voter in a Bahá’í election has the right to know how many votes he may have received in
that election even if he was not elected, it is inappropriate for an individual to raise such a question ...
The procedure which applies in the reporting of the results of a Bahá’í election is as stated in the letter of
16 December 1965 addressed to your National Assembly by the Universal House of Justice and is recited as
follows for your ready reference:
Normal Convention procedure would call for a tellers’ report announcing the names of the nine believers
elected to the National Spiritual Assembly plus statistical information as to the balance of the votes cast.
However, if the Convention votes to have the complete report of the tellers, or any part of it, the
Convention is entitled to have the information which will thereupon be presented by the tellers in
accordance with the vote of the Convention.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 4, 1984, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Concerning the vote counts for each individual elected, the tellers are instructed to provide these to the
Assembly. These numbers, and any further information from the tellers' report, are not released unless the
majority of those attending the election meeting vote to make them available.
Community Acceptance of Results
Once Assembly elections are over, the results should be conscientiously and unquestionably accepted by the
entire body of the believers, not necessarily because they represent the voice of truth or the will of
Bahá’u’lláh, but for the supreme purpose of maintaining unity and harmony in the Community. Besides, the
acceptance of majority vote is the only effective and practical way of settling deadlocks in elections. No other
solution is indeed possible.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 10, 1939, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 46
FORMING THE LOCAL ASSEMBLY
The Lord hath ordained that in every city a House of Justice be established wherein shall gather counsellors
to the number of Bahá (9) ... They should consider themselves as entering the Court of the presence of God,
the Exalted, the Most High, and as beholding Him Who is the unseen. It behoveth them to be the trusted ones
of the Merciful among men and to regard themselves as the guardians appointed of God for all that dwell on
earth.  It is incumbent on them to take counsel together and to have regard for the interests of the servants of
God, for His sake, even as they regard their own interests, and to choose that which is meet and seemly.  Thus
hath the Lord your God commanded you.  Beware lest ye put away that which is clearly revealed in His
Tablet.  Fear God, O ye that perceive.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, par. 30
In order to avoid division and disruption, that the Cause may not fall a prey to conflicting interpretations, and
lose thereby its purity and pristine vigor, that its affairs may be conducted with efficiency and promptness, it
is necessary that every one  should conscientiously take an active part in the election of these Assemblies ...
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá'í Administration, p. 41
[I]t is of the utmost importance that in accordance with the explicit text of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the Most Holy
Book, in every locality, be it city or hamlet, where the number of adult (21 years and above) declared
believers exceeds nine, a local “Spiritual Assembly” be forthwith established. To it all local matters pertaining
to the Cause must be directly and immediately referred for full consultation and decision. The importance,
nay the absolute necessity of these local Assemblies is manifest when we realize that in the days to come they
will evolve into the local House of Justice.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 37
Shoghi Effendi feels that in any locality where the number of adult believers reaches nine, a local Assembly
should be established. He feels this to be an obligation rather than a purely voluntary act. Only in exceptional
cases has the National Spiritual Assembly the right to postpone the formation of an Assembly if it feels that
the situation does not warrant such a formation. This right, however, should be exercised if the situation
absolutely demands it.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 46
ELECTIONS HELD ON FIRST DAY OF RIḌVÁN
In developing the Administrative Order, the Guardian established the First Day of Riḍván as the day when all
Local Spiritual Assemblies should be elected. During his own lifetime, this practice was followed as the
number of Local Assemblies steadily grew to over one thousand.
... beginning at Riḍván 1997, the practice of electing all Local Spiritual Assemblies on the First Day of
Riḍván will be reinstituted.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 26, 1995, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counselors, in
Turning Point, Selected Messages from the Universal House of Justice and Supplemental Material, 1996-2006, par. 1.25, 1.28
[O]bservance of the Nineteen Day Feast and Holy Days remain binding, such as the beginning of the day at
sunset, the suspension of work, and the hours at which certain Holy Days are commemorated.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 10, 2014, to the Bahá’ís of the World
With the adoption of the Badí‘ calendar worldwide in B.E. 172 (2015), the First Day of Riḍván will be April 20
in a year when Naw-Rúz is the same as March 20, and April 21 in a year when Naw-Rúz is the same as 21
March.  A listing of dates of Naw-Rúz for 50 years beginning in BE 172 is listed in Chapter 8.
See also:
Other Significant Bahá’í Dates (Holy Days and Feasts) in When to Observe Holy Days, Ch. 8
BAHÁ'ÍS IN LOCALITY RESPONSIBLE FOR ELECTING ASSEMBLY
[I]n principle, the initiative and responsibility for electing a Local Spiritual Assembly belong primarily to the
Bahá’ís in the locality, and assistance from outside is ultimately fruitful only if the friends become conscious
of this sacred responsibility. As progress is made in the training of human resources and in the development of
the entire range of Bahá’í community life, the capacity of the friends to elect their Local Spiritual Assemblies
on their own will certainly grow.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 26, 1995, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counselors, in
Turning Point, Selected Messages from the Universal House of Justice and Supplemental Material, 1996-2006, par. 1.27
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
ELECTION HELD AT ANNUAL MEETING
The Annual Meeting of the Corporation [the Local Spiritual Assembly] at which its Trustees shall be elected
shall be held on the First Day of Riḍván, being that period between sunset on April 20 and sunset on April 21,
[in years when Naw-Rúz falls on March 20, the election should occur between sunset on April 19 and sunset
on April 20] at an hour and place to be fixed by the Spiritual Assembly, which shall give not less than fifteen
days’ notice of the meeting to all members of the local Bahá’í community.
Section 1. The Spiritual Assembly shall accept those votes transmitted to the Assembly before the election by
members who by reason of sickness or other unavoidable reason are unable to be present at the election in
person.
Section 2. The election of members to the Spiritual Assembly shall be by plurality vote [whereby candidates
that have obtained the highest number of votes, regardless of whether they received a majority of the votes
cast, are elected].
Section 3. All voting members of the local Bahá’í community are eligible for election as members of the
Spiritual Assembly.
Section 4. The Spiritual Assembly shall prepare an agenda for the Annual Meeting in which shall be included
reports of the activities of the Assembly since its election, a financial statement showing all income and
expenditure of its fund, reports of its committees and presentation of any other matters pertaining to the
affairs of the Bahá’í community. The Assembly, both preceding and following the Annual Election, shall
invite discussion and welcome suggestions from the community in order that its plans may reflect the
community mind and heart.
Section 5. The result of the election shall be reported by the Spiritual Assembly to the National Spiritual
Assembly.
Articles of Incorporation, Constitution, and By-Laws of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States: By-Laws
of a Local Spiritual Assembly, Article XI
Preparation for Annual Meeting and Election
The Local Spiritual Assembly may wish to begin in early March to prepare for the Annual Meeting and
Assembly Election by taking the following steps:
•
Schedule the Annual Meeting to take place during the period between sunset on the evening of the
First Day of Ridván and sunset on the First Day of Riḍván. If the time of the sunset is late on this first
day, it is permissible to start the meeting before sunset so that it might end at a reasonable time.
Likewise, a meeting held on the first day itself may end after sunset, as long as it begins before
sunset. An annual meeting held at any other time may invalidate the election.
•
Determine the place of the meeting. The Annual Meeting and election should be held within the
jurisdiction of the Local Spiritual Assembly.
•
If the Assembly is to be re-formed, identify the eligible voters.
•
Mail the election call notifying all eligible voting members of the time and place of the Annual Meeting
at least fifteen days prior to the election. Include ballots and instructions for absentee voting.
•
Appoint at least two tellers to count the votes at the election and designate one as chief teller. The
chief teller should be 21 years old or older.  Assistant tellers must be at least 15 years old.
•
Instruct the tellers in the correct procedures for validating and counting the ballots.
•
Ensure that the community understands the Bahá’í electoral process and that voters are aware of the
qualities they should be looking for in Assembly members.
•
Obtain ballot paper, envelopes and writing implements to offer voters
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
•
Update the voting list to be available at the Annual Meeting (this should be done as close to the date
as possible to make the list as current as can be). This list may be posted or simply made available in
print or electronic form to the tellers and anyone else who needs it.
•
Give all absentee ballots that arrive up until the election meeting to the chief teller.
ANNUAL MEETING AND REPORT
Setting the Agenda for Annual Meeting
The Local Spiritual Assembly sets the agenda for the Annual Meeting. The following agenda is provided as an
example of how the Assembly might wish to organize the meeting:
•
Opening prayers
•
Presentation of the Annual Report
•
Consultation and questions on the Annual Report and other information presented
•
Reading of election call letter
•
Introduction of tellers, instructions on voting procedure, and sharing of guidance on the significance of
voting and qualities to consider
•
Final call for absentee ballots
•
Announcement of availability of a voting list and request for corrections and changes to it such as
persons who have recently transferred in or out of the community since the election call
•
Prayers and readings
•
Passing out any ballots, envelopes or writing implements needed by voters
•
Voting
•
Collection of ballots by tellers
•
Consultation on the development of the community in the coming year, particularly focused on what
areas of the community building process are to be strengthened in support of the goals of the Plan.
•
Tellers’ report and acceptance by community
•
Closing prayer
Annual Report of the Local Assembly
The Annual Report is a summary of the systematic development of the community during the past year.  It
may reflect how the community has advanced in raising its devotional character; how the spiritual education
of the children is being addressed; how the potential of junior youth is being realized; how the spiritual fabric
and social fabric of the community is being strengthened through its activities.  Among other aspects, it should
reflect the nature of the participation of the Assembly and the community in the national and global plans of
the Faith, particularly emphasizing the advance of the institute process and collective teaching efforts.
Altogether, the yearly reports prepared by the Assembly, its task forces and other appointees constitute the
Annual Report of the Local Spiritual Assembly which must be kept in the permanent files of the Assembly.
The Annual Report is normally distributed to the community prior to the election of the Assembly, either at the
Annual Meeting or in a mailing before the Annual Meeting. A copy of the Annual Report does not need to be
sent to the National Spiritual Assembly but should be sent to the Regional Bahá’í Council. It may also be
shared with the Auxiliary Board member(s).
The following basic information should be included in the Assembly’s report:
•
Name and location of the Spiritual Assembly
•
Date of report
•
Period covered
•
Results of the last annual election and any by-elections
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
•
Assembly membership and attendance record
•
Vital statistics:

total membership of the community

makeup of membership — adults, youth, children

transfers in and out, withdrawals, deprivations of administrative rights
•
Nineteen Day Feast attendance (percentage of community attendance)
•
How many regular devotional gatherings were established
•
Participation in the institute process:

How many Assembly members/believers/seekers completed each course

How many Assembly members/believers completed the sequence of courses

How many are actively engaged in serving as tutors, children class teachers and animators

How many junior youth groups were established

How many children classes were established
•
Results of teaching efforts:

How many collective teaching campaigns occurred

What was learned

How many seekers attended core activities

How many new believers (adults, youth, junior youth and children) were enrolled or registered

How these new believers were confirmed and consolidated
•
Progress in other aspects of national and global plans of the Faith, including:

participation in cluster activities

homefront pioneers sent out
•
Other major local projects and activities and their progress to date
•
Other noteworthy developments
•
Efforts made to improve the functioning of the Local Spiritual Assembly including courses or
workshops taken, goals set, etc.
•
Financial record:

total contributions received to date

expenditures

percentage of community participating in the Fund
See also:
Incorporation is Legal Foundation for Local Spiritual Assemblies — Maintaining Incorporation — Ch. 3
Reports of Task Forces and Other Appointees
The Assembly should ask task forces and other appointees to submit reports in order to assist it with
completion of its Annual report. Reports should be submitted to the Assembly well before the Annual Meeting.
The Assembly will need time to review the reports and to decide what to include in its own general report to
the community; or the Assembly may simply add the reports as an addendum to its own report.
Special Requirements for Incorporated Assemblies
To maintain incorporated status, the Assembly may be required to present and receive acceptance of the
minutes of the previous year’s Annual Meeting at the Annual Meeting. In addition they may need to submit
their annual report to the state. Incorporated Assemblies should make sure that they familiarize themselves
with and adhere to any requirements for their state.
See also:
Legal Matters Involving Incorporation and Insurance — Ch. 3
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
ASSEMBLY FORMATION BY JOINT DECLARATION
The National Bahá’í Constitution specifies: ‘When … the number of Bahá’ís in any authorized civil area is
exactly nine, these shall on [the first day of Riḍván] of any year, or in successive years, constitute themselves
the Local Spiritual Assembly by joint declaration. Upon the recording of such declaration by the Secretary of
the National Spiritual Assembly, said body of nine shall become established with the rights, privileges and
duties of a Local Spiritual Assembly ...’. It can therefore be seen that it is the duty of every Bahá’í in such a
situation to take part in the joint declaration.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated October 12, 1969, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 19
If a Local Spiritual Assembly is being formed by joint declaration, all members should sign the Local Spiritual
Assembly Joint Declaration Report Form. Those who are unavailable to sign at the same time as the others
may sign their names earlier or later.
If all signatures cannot be obtained or if any difficulties arise, the Assembly should still form and send the joint
declaration form to the National Spiritual Assembly as soon as possible after Riḍván. The Local Assembly
should include a letter explaining any difficulties and give the reasons for any missing signatures. The joint
declaration should be considered valid unless the community is notified otherwise by the National Assembly.
Re-formation by Joint Declaration
When a Local Spiritual Assembly is to be re-formed by joint declaration, the failure or refusal of a believer
to take part in the joint declaration would not be a bar to the re-formation of the Assembly. The way the
declaration is made is within the discretion of the National Spiritual Assembly to determine, and it may or
may not require signatures.
It is not necessary that all nine members sign the joint declaration together. One or more may happen to be
physically absent on the first day of Riḍván and in such cases the absent members could sign the declaration
at a later date, or take part in the joint declaration in such a manner as the National Spiritual Assembly may
decide.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 10, 1987, to a National Spiritual Assembly
First-time Formation by Joint Declaration
When the Spiritual Assembly is to be formed for the first time [by joint declaration] and one or more of the
adult believers refuses to join in the declaration, the Spiritual Assembly cannot be formed.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 2, 1980, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 18
The above guidance applies only to the first formation of an Assembly. If an Assembly is re-formed by joint
declaration in a subsequent year, regardless of whether there have been intervening years in which the
Assembly has been formed by election or has lapsed, the guidance in “Re-Formation by Joint Declaration”
should be followed.
Refusal to Participate in Joint Declaration
It can therefore be seen that it is the duty of every Bahá’í in such a situation to take part in the joint
declaration. If a Bahá’í, however, refuses to do so he should be helped to realize that he has committed a
grave dereliction of his Bahá’í duty. In this stage of the development of the Cause a National Spiritual
Assembly should not, generally, deprive a believer of his voting rights for such an offense, but should
lovingly and patiently educate the friends in the importance of their responsibilities.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated October 12, 1969, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 19
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
ACTIONS AFTER ANY TYPE OF ASSEMBLY FORMATION
Among the first actions for an Assembly to undertake is to insure that its formation is fully completed and
communicated to the Office of Membership and Records at the Bahá’í National Center by the deadline.
Another is to elect its officers. In addition, any members who have not already signed a confidentiality
agreement should sign one. Other tasks could include giving members keys, passwords, any needed training,
and appropriate documentation for their offices.
See also:
Member Confidentiality Agreement — Ch. 3
Ways and Means to View and Update Data — eMembership2 — Ch. 5
Reporting Annual Election Results
The result of the election shall be reported by the Spiritual Assembly to the National Spiritual Assembly.
Articles of Incorporation, Constitution, and By-Laws of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States: By-Laws
of a Local Spiritual Assembly, Article XI, Section 5
Immediately following the election, the appropriate election forms should be completed by the chief teller, and
the results reported, preferably through eMembership2, to the National Spiritual Assembly. If unusual or
extenuating circumstances were involved in the formation of the Assembly, a letter explaining the
circumstances should be submitted to the National Assembly with the election report or joint declaration form.
Election report forms and instructions are available on the national Bahá’í community website shortly before
Riḍván. For those communities without internet access, forms may be requested from the Office of
Membership and Records at the Bahá’í National Center and returned by mail or fax.
Regardless if the completed report is submitted through eMembership2, by mail, or by fax, a copy of the
signed, completed report should be retained, in hard copy, permanently in the Assembly’s files.
See also:
Unusual Considerations— Ch. 2
Contacts and Supplies — Local Assembly and Registered Group Formations and Changes — Ch. 5
Convening the First Meeting
The first meeting of a newly elected Spiritual Assembly shall be called by the member elected to membership
by the highest number of votes, or in case two or more members have received the same said highest number
of votes, then by the member selected by lot from among those members; and this member shall preside until
the permanent Chairman shall be chosen.
Articles of Incorporation, Constitution, and By-Laws of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States: By-Laws
of a Local Spiritual Assembly, Article VIII
Election of Officers
While it is certainly true that the permanent officers of an Assembly should be elected immediately following
the election of that Assembly, it is equally important, as stated in Article IV of the By-laws of the National
Assembly, that “The officers shall be elected by a majority vote of the entire membership of the Assembly
taken by secret ballot.” That is all members of the Assembly must be properly notified and given an
opportunity to vote, and in cases of unavoidable absence it does not contravene the spirit of the By-laws if the
absent member should cast his ballot by mail or even by telephone.
Temporary officers may be elected until all nine are properly notified of the election.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 27, 1981, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 96
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
If all nine members (all consenting members, in the case of joint declaration) of the newly formed Assembly
are present at the annual meeting, the election of officers may take place. If not, immediately following the
annual meeting, a temporary correspondent (someone to receive mail and telephone calls) may be elected
from the Assembly members in attendance and a separate meeting scheduled at the earliest time when all of
the members may participate in electing permanent officers. All members of the new Assembly must be
informed of this meeting with reasonable advance notice.
See also:
Election of Officers — Ch. 3
Reporting Election of Officers
The Assembly member serving as the chief teller should record the results of the officers’ election on the
Local Spiritual Assembly Election Report form and submit it through eMembership2 as soon as possible. The
form should be retained in the Assembly’s permanent records. Communities without Internet access, may
mail or fax a copy of the form to the Office of Membership and Records as soon as possible.
National Assembly Recognition of Formation
Automatic Recognition of Assembly Election
Elected Assemblies that submit complete election results via eMembership2 and have satisfied the following
requirements will automatically be recognized:
•
The election was held on the first day of Riḍván — between sunset on the day before and sunset on
the first day of Riḍván. If the time of the sunset is late on the first Day, it is permissible to start the
meeting before sunset so that it might end at a reasonable time. Likewise, a meeting held on the first
Day may end after sunset, as long as it begins before sunset.
•
The meeting was held within the jurisdiction of the Assembly.
•
The election call was sent to all adult believers in the community at least fifteen days before the
election.
•
At least five ballots were cast in the election.
•
The chief teller was at least 21 years of age, with full administrative rights, and was registered in the
American Bahá’í community.
•
The Local Spiritual Assembly Election Report Form was completed in full.
When using automatic reporting for elections, the Assembly should retain the completed and signed tellers’
report in its permanent records.
Once an election or joint declaration takes place, it may be considered valid and the Assembly can begin
functioning. If unusual or extenuating circumstances were involved in the formation of the Assembly, a letter
explaining the circumstances should be submitted to the National Assembly with the election report or joint
declaration form. The local Assembly should continue to operate unless the National Assembly determines,
following receipt of the letter and formation report, that the Assembly cannot be recognized.
See also:
ELECTION HELD AT ANNUAL MEETING— Ch. 2
Ways and Means to View and Update Data — eMembership2 — Ch. 5
Recognition Ceremony or Announcement for First Formation
The first time a Local Spiritual Assembly is formed in a jurisdiction, the National Spiritual Assembly asks it to
announce the formation to the press, local officials, like-minded organizations, and the larger Bahá’í and
general communities. This announcement can take a variety of forms commensurate with available resources
and the culture of the community, ranging from a press release and other mailings to holding a Recognition
Ceremony.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
Should a ceremony be deemed the most appropriate method of announcing and celebrating the
establishment of the new Institution, the Assembly should arrange for a commemoration which will not strain
the financial and human resources of the community.
See also:
Contacts and Supplies — Ch. 5
ASSEMBLY SERVICE
These Spiritual Assemblies are aided by the Spirit of God. Their defender is 'Abdu'l-Bahá. Over them He
spreadeth His Wings. What bounty is there greater than this? These Spiritual Assemblies are shining lamps
and heavenly gardens, from which the fragrances of holiness are diffused over all regions, and the lights of
knowledge are shed abroad over all created things. From them the spirit of life streameth in every direction.
They, indeed, are the potent sources of the progress of man, at all times and under all conditions.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Άbdu'l-Bahá, p. 80
Service on the institutions and agencies of the Faith is indeed a tremendous privilege, but not one that is
sought by the individual; it is a duty and responsibility to which he or she may be called at any given time. It
is understandable, of course, that all those involved in Bahá'í administration would rightly feel they have been
invested with a singular honour in forming part, in whatever way, of a structure designed to be a channel
through which the spirit of the Cause flows. Yet they should not imagine that such service entitles them to
operate on the periphery of the learning process that is everywhere gaining strength, exempt from its inherent
requirements. Nor should it be supposed that membership on administrative bodes provides an opportunity to
promote one’s own understanding of what is recorded in the Sacred Text and how the teachings should be
applied, steering the community in whatever direction personal preference dictate. Referring to members of
Spiritual Assemblies, the Guardian wrote that they “must disregard utterly their own likes and dislikes, their
personal interests and inclinations, and concentrate their minds upon those measures that will conduce to the
welfare and happiness of the Bahá'í Community and promote the common weal.” Bahá’í institutions do
exercise authority to guide the friends, and exert moral, spiritual and intellectual influence on the lives of
individuals and communities.  However, such functions are to be performed with the realization that an ethos
of loving service pervades Bahá’í institutional identify.  Qualifying authority and influence in this manner
implies sacrifice on the part of those entrusted to administer the affairs of the Faith. Does not ‘Abdu'l-Bahá
tell us that “when a lump of iron is cast into the forge, its ferrous qualities of blackness, coldness and solidity,
which symbolize the attributes of the human world, are concealed and disappear, while the fire's distinctive
qualities of redness, heat and fluidity, which symbolize the virtues of the Kingdom, become visibly apparent
in it.” As He averred, “ye must in this matter—that is, the serving of humankind—lay down your very lives,
and as ye yield yourselves, rejoice.”
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 2010, to the Continental Board of Counselors
Unusual Considerations
Election of a Believer Who Has Requested No Mail
If a person who has requested no mail is elected to the Assembly, please contact the Office of Community
Administration at the Bahá’í National Center for assistance.
Election of a Believer Who Has Withdrawn from the Faith
[I]f, prior to local elections an enrolled believer withdraws from the Faith and this leads to the removal of his
name from Bahá’í membership, and yet he is subsequently elected to the Local Assembly, such votes as have
been cast in his name are disregarded without invalidating the remaining votes on the ballots. If, however, the
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
process of withdrawal has not taken place, that is, the believer refuses on the day of election to participate and
expresses then his desire to withdraw from the community, and yet he is subsequently elected to the
Assembly, since his withdrawal is generally unknown to the friends, in such a case the remaining eight elected
members should meet, consider the withdrawal, and if his name has to be removed from Bahá’í membership,
a by-election should be held to fill the vacancy.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 11, 1979, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 48
See also:
Reporting Annual Election Results— Ch. 2
Dissatisfaction with Officers — Ch. 3
Refusal to Serve
Concerning the question of refusal by certain believers to accept election to an administrative post: The
Guardian strongly feels that criticism, opposition, or confusion do not provide sufficient grounds for either
refusal or resignation. Only cases of physical or mental incapacity, which, by their very nature, are extremely
rare, constitute valid reasons for such an act. The difficulties and tests involved in the acceptance of
administrative posts, far from inducing the believers to dissociate themselves from the work of the Cause,
should spur them on to greater exertions and to a more active participation in the privileged task of resolving
the problems that confront the Bahá’í community. … The believers, for the sake of the Cause, now in the
period of its infancy, should accept their duties in a spirit of self-sacrifice, and should be animated by the
desire to uphold the verdict of the electorate, and to lend their share of assistance, however difficult the
circumstances, to the effective administration of the affairs of the Faith.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated January 15, 1942 to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Directives from the Guardian,
no. 59
While it is true that refusal to serve can ultimately incur the forfeiture of administrative rights, the House of
Justice feels that your Assembly should bear in mind the caution voiced on behalf of the Guardian in the letter
published on pages 86 and 87 of Principles of Bahá’í Administration: “Only in cases where individual
believers, without any valid reason, deliberately refuse the repeated exhortations, pleas, and warnings
addressed to them by their Assemblies, should action be taken in removing them from the voting list.” At the
present stage … far more beneficial results are likely to be achieved by encouragement of the believers and by
their education in the principles and significance of Bahá’í administration than by the threat or imposition of
sanctions. Indeed the latter, if applied unwisely, could achieve the very opposite of what your Assembly is
hoping to accomplish.
Generally the membership of small local communities includes some believers who are new in the Faith and
need to be lovingly nurtured in the responsibilities of being a Bahá’í, and others who are overburdened by a
multitude of cares. How often one finds in small [meaning numerically small communities] Assemblies
members who, although devoted believers, have non-Bahá’í spouses and families to care for and are very
limited in the time they can spend in Bahá’í administrative activities. Such believers should be encouraged,
and loving appreciation should be shown for whatever services they can render, and nothing should be done,
however unintentionally, to make them feel that they are living under a threat of administrative expulsion if
they do not attend every Assembly meeting or decline a request to serve on a committee.
There may, of course, be cases of believers who, without any good reason, refuse to shoulder the
responsibilities of membership in the Bahá’í community. It is to such extreme cases that you would be
justified in applying sanctions if, after “repeated exhortations, pleas and warnings” they persist in their
attitude.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 8, 1980, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Election of Officers — Assembly Member May Request Not To Be Officer — Ch. 3
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
Resignation from Assembly
Personal differences and disagreements among Assembly members surely afford no sufficient ground for
such resignation, and certainly cannot justify absence from Assembly meetings. Through the clash of personal
opinions, as Άbdu'l-Bahá has stated, the spark of truth is often ignited, and divine guidance revealed.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated April 18, 1939, to an individual believer, in The Local Spiritual Assembly: An
Institution of the Baha'i Administrative Order, A Compilation, p. 21
The remedy to Assembly inharmony cannot be in the resignation or abstinence of any of its members. It must
learn, in spite of disturbing elements, to continue to function as a whole, otherwise the whole system would
become discredited through the introduction of exceptions to the rule.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated November 20, 1941, to an individual believer, in The Local Spiritual Assembly: An
Institution of the Baha'i Administrative Order, A Compilation, p. 21
The National Spiritual Assembly cannot refuse accepting a resignation when it is well justified, and when it
is done not with the purpose of shirking responsibility. …
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated April 10, 1934, to an individual believer, in Messages of Shoghi Effendi to the Indian
Subcontinent, 1923-1957, p. 111
With reference to your question whether it would be permissible for a believer to resign from the Local
Assembly; under special circumstances, such as illness, one may do so, but only after, and never before he has
been elected to the membership of the Assembly.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated April 19, 1939, to an individual believer, in The Local Spiritual Assembly: An
Institution of the Baha'i Administrative Order, A Compilation, p. 21
Your Assembly should first have considered whether to accept Miss…'s resignation, and then, if the
Assembly had accepted her resignation, the vacancy should have been filled by a by-election…
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 6, 1981, in Lights of Guidance, no. 88
If one of the elected members declines service on the Assembly, the resignation must be submitted to the
newly elected Assembly. The resignation cannot be considered by the community at the Annual Meeting, but
should be the topic of consultation within the Assembly. If necessary, the guidance of the National Assembly
should be sought regarding whether or not to accept the resignation. If a vacancy is declared, a by-election
should be called.
Once having made the decision to accept a resignation, and having sought the guidance of the National
Assembly, if necessary, the Assembly should declare a vacancy, schedule a by-election, and notify the
National Assembly of the results after the by-election. If the member resigning had just been elected in a by-
election, rather than going to the person receiving the next highest number of votes, a new by-election should
be scheduled.
If an Assembly member moves out of the community without resigning, he or she is no longer eligible to serve
on that Assembly and a by-election should be called as the individual’s departure would be in lieu of the
resignation.
In the case of a resignation when Ridván elections are fast approaching, the Local Spiritual Assembly is free
to decide whether to proceed with a by-election or to leave the vacancy unfilled for a short period of time until
the next election. However, it may be of use to note that the Universal House of Justice and the National
Spiritual Assembly fill vacancies in their membership as soon as possible, regardless of the timing of
upcoming elections.
See also:
Reporting Annual Election Results— Ch. 2
Vacancies and By-elections— Ch. 2
Election of Officers — Assembly Member May Request Not To Be Officer — Ch. 3
Dissatisfaction with Officers — Ch. 3
Disputes — Disputes between Believers — Ch. 14
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
Removal of Member
[W]hereas a greater degree of patience might be shown towards other believers, if a member of an
institution, an agency of the Faith or an elected delegate fails to respond to counselling it would be
appropriate to relieve them from such service pending the correction of their behaviour.  Only in extreme
cases involving a flagrant attitude or damage to the reputation of the Faith would it be necessary for the full
administrative rights of a Bahá’í to be removed.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 24, 2011, to a National Spiritual Assembly.
It is also quite permissible for a National Spiritual Assembly to debar an individual believer from serving on a
Local Spiritual Assembly without removing his or her voting rights and they may also debar a believer from
attending the consultative part of a Nineteen Day Feast. You may also debar a believer from voting in
elections without imposing all the other administrative sanctions involved in administrative expulsion.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 31, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 196
Situations may arise in which a Local Spiritual Assembly member is violating Bahá’í law or having such
serious problems that his or her membership on the Assembly is detrimental to the reputation of the Faith or
disruptive to the functioning of the Assembly. If this occurs, the Local Assembly should contact the National
Spiritual Assembly, explain the circumstances involved, and include its recommendation for administrative
action.
See also:
Vacancies and By-elections— Ch. 2
Dissatisfaction with Officers — Ch. 3
Removal of Administrative Rights — Ch. 10
Behaviors Subject to Administrative Sanctions — Ch. 10
VACANCIES AND BY-ELECTIONS
Vacancies in the membership of the Spiritual Assembly shall be filled by election at a special meeting of the
local Bahá’í community duly called for that purpose by the Assembly. In the event that the number of
vacancies exceeds four, making a quorum of the Spiritual Assembly impossible, the election shall be under
the supervision of the National Spiritual Assembly.
Articles of Incorporation, Constitution, and By-Laws of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States: By-Laws
of a Local Spiritual Assembly, Article VIII, Section 2
When a vacancy occurs on the Local Assembly, a by-election should be called. Written notices should be sent
to all eligible adult members in the community at least 15 days in advance of the date of the election. The
notice may include a voting list made up of the names of all eligible adult members who are not already
serving on the Assembly, including the person or persons who may have resigned from the Assembly.
Although a person may have resigned, he or she is still considered eligible to serve on the Assembly.
A by-election is held only if there are more than nine adults in the community. Otherwise, any vacancy is filled
automatically by the only other adult believer in good standing. If more than one believer is available to serve,
a by-election must be held. Any changes in Assembly membership should be recorded in the minutes.
Immediately following the election, the appropriate election forms should be completed by the chief teller, and
the results reported, preferably through eMembership2, to the National Spiritual Assembly. If unusual or
extenuating circumstances were involved in the formation of the Assembly, a letter explaining the
circumstances should be submitted to the National Assembly with the election report. Election report forms
and instructions are available on the national Bahá’í community website at http://american.bahai.us/. For
those communities without internet access, forms may be requested from the Office Membership and
Records at the Bahá’í National Center and returned by mail or fax.
Regardless if the completed report is submitted through eMembership2, by mail, or by fax, a copy of the
signed, completed report should be retained, in hard copy, permanently in the Assembly’s files.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
In the case of a resignation when Ridván elections are fast approaching, the Local Spiritual Assembly is free
to decide whether to proceed with a by-election or to leave the vacancy unfilled for a short period of time until
the next election. However, it may be of use to note that the Universal House of Justice and the National
Spiritual Assembly fill vacancies in their membership as soon as possible, regardless of the timing of
upcoming elections.
See also:
Election Procedures— Ch. 2
Qualifications OF the Elected— Ch. 2
Eligibility to Vote or Hold Office — Ch. 2
Ways and Means to View and Update Data — eMembership2 — Ch. 5
When There Are More than Four Vacancies
When the number of vacancies on an Assembly make it impossible to convene a quorum, a by-election
cannot be held and the National Spiritual Assembly should be contacted for instructions. An Assembly falling
below a quorum may happen when several believers move from the area at once, among other reasons.
See also:
Participation — If Assembly Unable to Maintain Quorum — Ch. 4
ASSEMBLIES IN JEOPARDY OF DISSOLUTION
He feels that where the dissolution of an Assembly is in question each case should be treated separately in
this sense, that if a member moves away permanently, leaving less than 9 to function, the Spiritual Assembly
should not immediately be dissolved if they, its members, see an immediate remedy in view; in other words if
they are going to confirm soon, or receive within a reasonable length of time, someone to take the person’s
place, they need not give up Assembly status. If they do, for insurmountable reason, fall below Assembly
status, then they can only be reconstituted on April 21st. Also if certain members temporarily absent
themselves from meetings there is no need to dissolve the Assembly; on the contrary the reluctant ones should
be educated and encouraged to reassume their spiritual obligations as believers. A Spiritual Assembly is not
based on 9 people being available for every single meeting but on 9 resident Bahá’ís doing their best to
discharge their duty to the Spiritual Assembly when they are not prevented by illness or absence or some
legitimate reason for doing so.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 31, 1945, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 22
Once formed, an Assembly continues to exist until the next annual election or until the National Spiritual
Assembly acts to declare the Assembly dissolved. If the number of adult Bahá’ís in the community falls below
nine, or if conditions arise which make it impossible for the Local Assembly to function, such as an inability to
achieve a quorum, the facts should be reported to the National Assembly, the Regional Bahá’í Council, and
the Auxiliary Board members. The Regional Bahá’í Council will assist the remaining active adult believers in
determining what activities would be most conducive to the growth of the community and the re-formation of
the Assembly.
See also:
Participation — Appointment of Temporary Administrative Committee When Not Functioning — Ch. 4
Preparation for Loss of Assembly Status
When there is a strong probability of Assembly dissolution as Riḍván approaches, the Local Spiritual
Assembly should decide how to handle the dissolution should it occur. The Assembly has the responsibility to
provide for an orderly process. The Assembly should develop a simple contingency plan according to the
following guidelines, and then turn all attention to teaching.
See also:
Participationn—Appointment of Temporary Administrative Committee When Not Functioning—Ch. 4
Homefront Pioneering and Travel Teaching — Ch. 6
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
What to Do with Ongoing Personal Status Cases If Assembly Lapses
In the event the Assembly does lapse, generally the National Assembly will assign responsibility for handling
any on-going cases to another Local Spiritual Assembly. If the Assembly has personal status cases pending, it
should briefly review them, make sure all information is up-to-date, and write a separate report or letter for
each case to inform the National Assembly of the circumstances. Writing them separately helps to preserve
confidentiality in recordkeeping.
If teaching and efforts to recruit homefront pioneers fail, and the dissolution of the Assembly does occur, all
parties involved in pending cases should be contacted and informed that the National Assembly will assign
another local Assembly to handle the matter. If the parties involved have a preference for another Assembly,
the lapsing Assembly should note it on the letter(s) or report(s) it sends to the National Assembly. It should
then promptly mail the letter(s) or report(s) to the National Assembly informing it directly of its change in status
and include copies (not originals) of all documents, including new information, for any cases that have not
been reported, along with any comments or recommendations the Local Assembly may have concerning the
cases. Originals should be stored as covered in the following sections.
What to Do with Assembly Records If Assembly Lapses
A willing Assembly member should be selected to store Assembly records until another Assembly is formed,
maintaining full confidentiality concerning the records. If the Assembly does not re-form within two years, or
no one is willing to continue storing them securely until another Assembly is formed, the records should be
transferred to the National Bahá'í Archives at the Bahá’í National Center. If a situation arises in which the
Assembly’s confidential records need to be accessed and the Assembly has not re-formed, the individual
storing the records should refrain from accessing them and contact the National Spiritual Assembly for
guidance.
See also:
Recordkeeping — Ch. 4
JURISDICTIONAL BOUNDARIES OF LOCAL ASSEMBLIES
Definition of a Bahá’í Locality
A Bahá’í locality is the area in which a Bahá’í community is situated. The jurisdiction of the Local Spiritual
Assembly corresponds to the boundaries of the Bahá’í locality. Generally, the boundaries of Bahá’í localities
follow those of the smallest unit of civil jurisdiction, such as the boundaries of an incorporated city, or, outside
of a city, the boundaries of a township or county. Whenever the boundaries for a locality are uncertain,
boundary clarification and/or guidelines for establishing boundaries can be requested from the National
Spiritual Assembly.
Additional information is available on the national Bahá’í community website under the Office of Community
Administration in a document titled “Establishing Boundaries”.
Bahá’í Boundaries Determined by Civil Boundaries
He wishes me to stress the fact that from now on any group that is formed must belong to one civil
community, as otherwise endless confusion and misunderstanding would ensue. The limits of each civil
community must be clearly recognized, and no overlapping should be allowed under any circumstances.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, in Bahá’í News, no. 132, January 1940, p. 4
The Guardian fully realizes that the process of splitting up large communities into smaller ones, each existing
within its own civil units, has been difficult for the Australian friends. What they do not seem to fully
appreciate is that this has been done in Canada and the United States as well, and is only in order to organize
the assemblies on a logical basis, and one with a firmer legal foundation. The fact that this may create more
assemblies in the end, and that it sometimes breaks up existing ones, is only incidental; the important point is
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
to consolidate the communities on a sound basis, i.e., every assembly within the limits of the Municipality its
members reside in.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated June 28, 1950, in Letters from the Guardian to Australia and New Zealand, p. 83
Regarding the formation of local Assemblies, the Guardian does not advise any departure from the principle
that every civil community should have its own independent Assembly.
Shoghi Effendi, Directives from the Guardian, p. 51
He realizes that the enforcement of the general rule that an Assembly must function within civic limits has
caused considerable havoc in Britain, as well as other countries. However, it enables the friends, through
splitting up into smaller communities, to have before their eyes the appetizing prospect of forming yet another
Spiritual Assembly, all on their own, so to speak. It gives more believers the opportunity to serve on these
Administrative Bodies, challenges the teaching activities of them all, and stimulates them to fresh efforts in
the hope of early victory.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated August 8, 1957, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Unfolding Destiny: The
Messages from the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith to the Baha'i Community of the British Isles, p. 381
Changes in Boundaries
Suburban or unincorporated areas surrounding a central city or town can only be included in the Local
Assembly area of the central entity if they are annexed by the civil authorities. …
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 29, 1981, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Although the boundaries of Bahá’í communities located in incorporated cities usually follow the city limits
exactly, there are a few exceptions to this rule. In some cities, small parcels of land within the city are not
incorporated. Often, this occurs because the city considers these pockets of land too costly to maintain.
However, the National Spiritual Assembly considers these pockets as part of the city’s Bahá’í locality. Pockets
of unincorporated land just outside the city’s limits, but surrounded on at least three sides by the city may, with
the approval of the National Spiritual Assembly, be considered part of the city’s Bahá’í locality.
If a Local Assembly discovers that the civil boundaries of its area have changed due to an annexation,
secession, or other action by the local government, the Assembly should promptly contact the Office of
Community Administration at (847) 733-3485 for advice on how to proceed. Additional information is available
on the national Bahá’í community website under the Office of Community Administration in a document titled
“Establishing Boundaries”.
Areas of Jurisdiction of National and Local Spiritual Assemblies
The National Spiritual Assembly shall have exclusive jurisdiction and authority over all the activities and
affairs of the Bahá’í Faith throughout its area.
Universal House of Justice, The Constitution of the Universal House of Justice, p. 9
Among its more specific duties a Local Spiritual Assembly shall have full jurisdiction of all Bahá’í activities
and affairs within the local community subject, however, to the exclusive and paramount authority of the
National Spiritual Assembly as defined herein.
Articles of Incorporation, Constitution, and By-Laws of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States: By-Laws
of a Local Spiritual Assembly, Article VII, Section 3
[W]ithin a municipal area, where the people resident in the area pay taxes and vote, the Assembly can be
elected, and holds jurisdiction. Anyone living outside of that area is not a member of that Community, and
cannot enjoy the administrative privileges of that Community.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated June 13, 1936, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Letters from the Guardian to
Australia and New Zealand, p. 130
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
Since a Local Spiritual Assembly has full jurisdiction of all Bahá'í activities and affairs within its local
community, individuals, groups, and Assemblies that wish to hold a Bahá'í activity within another Assembly’s
jurisdiction should first seek its approval. If there is a registered group rather than an Assembly in the area, it
would be courteous, and probably valuable, to consult with them about such plans ahead of time, even
though the approval of the group is not technically necessary.
See also:
Relationship between the Assembly and the Neighboring Bahá’í Communities — Ch. 1
The Administration of Justice — Ch.10
REGIONAL BAHÁ'Í COUNCIL ELECTIONS
One of the subtle qualities of the Bahá'í Administrative Order is the balance between centralization and
decentralization. This balance must be correctly maintained, but different factors enter into the equation,
depending upon the institutions involved. For example, the relationship between a National or Local Spiritual
Assembly and its committees is of a different nature from that between National and Local Spiritual
Assemblies. The former is a relationship between a central administrative body and "its assisting organs of
executive and legislative action",1 while the latter is a relationship between national and local levels of the
House of Justice, each of which is a divinely ordained institution with clearly prescribed jurisdiction, duties
and prerogatives.
Regional Bahá'í Councils partake of some, but not all, characteristics of Spiritual Assemblies, and thus
provide a means of carrying forward the teaching work and administering related affairs of a rapidly growing
Bahá'í community in a number of situations. Without such an institution, the development of a national
committee structure required to cover the needs in some countries would run the danger of over-complexity
through adding a further layer of committees under the regional committees, or the danger of excessive
decentralization through conferring too much autonomy on committees which are characterized by the
Guardian as "bodies that should be regarded in no other light than that of expert advisers and executive
assistants." The distinguishing effects of the establishment of Regional Bahá'í Councils are the following:
It provides for a level of autonomous decision making on both teaching and administrative matters, as
distinct from merely executive action, below the National Assembly and above the Local Assemblies.
It involves the members of Local Spiritual Assemblies of the area in the choice of the members of the
Council, thus reinforcing the bond between it and the local believers while, at the same time, bringing into
public service capable believers who are known to the friends in their own region.
It establishes direct consultative relationships between the Continental Counsellors and the Regional
Bahá'í Councils.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 30, 1997, to all National Spiritual Assemblies
1 Letter from Shoghi Effendi, dated October 18, 1927 to a National Spiritual Assembly
FORMATION OF REGIONAL BAHÁ’Í COUNCIL
The members of an elected Regional Bahá’í Council, who shall be nine in number, are elected from among
all the adult believers in the region by the members of the Local Spiritual Assemblies in that region every
year.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 30, 1997, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in Turning Point, Selected
Messages of the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 14.17
Regional Bahá’í Councils are elected annually. Balloting occurs in October or early November so that Council
members may begin their service on the Day of the Covenant.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
Prior to the election, each Regional Bahá'í Council is responsible for sending election calls with instructions to
the Assemblies in its region regarding the upcoming Council election and providing whatever materials and
instructions it deems necessary to carry out the elections. Assemblies should turn to their Regional Bahá’í
Council for guidance concerning these elections.
All adult believers in full possession of their administrative rights who live within the region are eligible for
election. Auxiliary Board members, if elected, must choose between serving as an Auxiliary Board member or
as a Regional Council member. Results of Regional Bahá'í Council elections are confirmed by the National
Spiritual Assembly.
See also:
Relationship between the Local Assembly and Its Regional Bahá'í Councils — Ch. 1
UNIT CONVENTIONS
It is expressly recorded in Άbdu’l-Bahá’s Writings that these National Assemblies must be indirectly elected
by the Friends; that is, the Friends in every country must elect a certain number of delegates, who in their turn
will elect from among all the Friends in that country the members of the National Spiritual Assembly. ...
These secondary electors will then, either through correspondence, or preferably by gathering together, and
first deliberating upon the affairs of the Cause throughout their country ... , elect from among all the Friends
in that country nine who will be the members of the National Spiritual Assembly.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, pp. 39-40
[H]e wishes to stress the importance of reminding the believers that they should make every possible effort
to attend the meeting for the election of the State or Province delegates, in order to stimulate a larger group
consciousness which will greatly facilitate the process of the believers becoming acquainted with each other,
and provide an intermediary state – which will become increasingly valuable and necessary – between the
local organization, represented by the group or Assembly, and national collective action, represented by the
activities of the Convention and the institution of the National Assembly.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated November 16, 1943, to a National Spiritual Assembly
UNIT CONVENTION IN THE ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER
A three–stage election has been provided by Άbdu’l-Bahá for the formation of the International House of
Justice, and as it is explicitly provided in His Will and Testament that the “secondary House of Justice (i.e.,
National Assemblies) must elect the members of the Universal one,” it is obvious that the members of the
National Spiritual Assemblies will have to be indirectly elected by the body of the believers in their respective
provinces.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 84
It is expressly recorded in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Writings that these National Assemblies must be indirectly elected
by the Friends; that is, the Friends in every country must elect a certain number of delegates, who in their turn
will elect from among all the Friends in that country the members of the National Spiritual Assembly.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 39–40
The Convention should be regarded as a temporary gathering, having certain specific functions to perform
during a limited period of time. Its status is thus limited in time to the Convention sessions, the function of
consultation at all other times being vested in the entire body of believers through the local Spiritual
Assemblies.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated November 18, 1933, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
Each electoral Unit Convention will be called by a Convenor appointed by the National Spiritual Assembly, or
by a committee it may appoint to organize the electoral Unit Convention, and as soon as the Unit Convention
has come to order it will elect its own Chairman and Secretary.
The Universal House of Justice, Principles of Bahá’í Administration, p. 98
The Guardian believes that the right to elect the chair and the secretary of the Convention should be vested in
the assembled delegates, lest any objection be raised that that the members of the outgoing National Assembly
are seeking to direct the course of the discussions in a manner that would be conducive to their own personal
interests.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated August 18, 1933
It is up to the chair, when necessary, to keep before the Convention the purpose of consultation at the Annual
Convention and to exercise a certain amount of control over the proceedings, while not infringing on the
freedom of the delegates to take part in discussion and to initiate motions. Any delegate may raise any issues
for consultation, but it is for the convetion to decide whether it wishes to consult on it.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 7, 1991, to a National Spiritual Assembly
At the Unit Convention, election of delegates is carried out by the entire body of the adult believers in good
standing. It is the first stage of a three-stage divine process involving the election of the National Spiritual
Assembly and culminating on a five-year cycle in the election of the Universal House of Justice, as envisioned
by 'Abdu'l-Bahá. The purposes of Unit Convention are to elect delegate(s) to the National Convention, who
will in turn elect the members of the National Spiritual Assembly; to provide an opportunity for the believers to
consult on local and regional issues and concerns with the goal of the advancement of the Cause of
Bahá’u’lláh; and to make recommendations to the National Assembly.
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITY OF THE NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY
AND ITS OFFICES
The National Spiritual Assembly establishes all Electoral Unit boundaries, as instructed by the Universal
House of Justice, by apportioning equally the entire body of believers in electing 171 delegates (the number
assigned by Shoghi Effendi to the United States) to the National Convention. Unit boundaries are adjusted
periodically to accommodate geographic changes in the distribution of believers throughout the country.
In collaboration with the Regional Bahá’í Councils, the Office of Assembly Development at the Bahá’í National
Center appoints Host Assemblies to organize the Convention for their electoral units, provide Convention
planning and voting materials, and publicize Convention election sites.
Following Unit Conventions, the National Assembly receives and reviews all recommendations from the
Conventions.
See also:
Election Procedures– Ch. 2
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE HOST ASSEMBLY
The Host of the Unit Convention has a few specific duties, one of which is to appoint a Unit Convention
Planning Team, naming one of the members to be the contact person. In considering whom to appoint to the
Planning Team, consideration should be given to diversity of age, gender and race as well as to ability to work
as a team member and to take on responsibilities as an individual and carry the task to completion.  In some
smaller communities, the Assembly itself may be the Planning Team, with one member tasked to keep
everything moving forward.
The following is a list of duties that are the responsibility of the Host of the Unit Convention:
•
Set the Unit Convention date to be on the first weekend (Saturday or Sunday) in October. In rural
areas where Electoral Units cover vast distances, the host may choose to have an extended Unit
Convention that begins on Saturday and ends on Sunday, to allow for travel as well as rest.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 2 – Bahá’í Elections
•
Ensure that Funds are appropriately used and accounted for.  You may wish to provide guidelines or
a budget for the Planning Team.
•
Ensure that all required forms and reports are mailed promptly to the Office of Assembly
Development at the Bahá’í National Center.
•
Consult with the elected Delegate to set a date for Convention reports to be given soon after the
National Convention, possibly at the same venue as the Unit Convention.  Ideally, an announcement
of the date and place of the Convention report can be made before the end of the Unit Convention.
•
Retain all ballots cast for the Delegate(s) in a safe place for at least six months, after which time they
must be destroyed.
•
Organize and retain records of the Planning Team for future use in hosting conventions.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE UNIT CONVENTION PLANNING TEAM
The Host/Planning Team is important to a well-organized Convention. It is generally responsible for selecting
the venue, preparing the details, and conducting the Unit Convention. In carrying out its responsibilities the
Team will:
•
If not the Host, the Planning Team will consult with and follow the guidance of the Host, and keep the
Host informed of the Unit Convention planning process on a schedule agreed upon by both Host and
Planning Team.
•
Appoint an individual or team, as appropriate, to the various roles set out in the Unit Convention
Roles and Responsibilities document (including Logistics Coordinator, Publicity/Promotions
Coordinator, General Activities Coordinator, Devotions Coordinator, Youth and Children’s Program
Coordinator, Book Sales Manager, Registrar, Convention Convener, Chief Teller, assistant tellers, and
other coordinators). The Planning Guide and Role and Responsibilities document is available on the
member services website www://american.bahai.us..
•
Provide the resources necessary for the Convention chair, secretary, chief teller and delegate(s) to
know and perform their respective duties.
•
Promote attendance and participation.
•
Plan a spiritually uplifting, welcoming and socially warm environment at the Convention.
•
Manage the Unit Convention’s financial transactions.
•
Ensure that all information requested, including the Convention report forms, are given to the
designated institutions on time, and all records and ballots are kept by the Host.
In attending to the details of the Unit Convention, the Host/Planning Team should bear in mind the following
guidance:
Shoghi Effendi repeatedly advised the friends that they should be uncompromising in principle but flexible in
subsidiary details.”
From a letter dated October 22, 1986, written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice
Revised April 2016

Revised April 2016
3. ORGANIZATION OF THE LOCAL ASSEMBLY ..........................................................................................................3
PREPARING MEMBERS TO SERVE ..........................................................................................................................3
SACRED NATURE OF SERVICE ON AN ASSEMBLY ............................................................................................3
MEMBER CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT .........................................................................................................4
TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY FOR ASSEMBLY OFFICERS ..............................................................................4
RESPONSIBILITIES OF MEMBERS ...........................................................................................................................5
DUTIES OF OFFICERS ................................................................................................................................................5
CHAIRPERSON ........................................................................................................................................................6
VICE-CHAIRPERSON ..............................................................................................................................................7
SECRETARY ............................................................................................................................................................7
Preparation of Agenda ..........................................................................................................................................8
TREASURER ............................................................................................................................................................8
MEMBERS RESPONSIBLE FOR ASSISTING AND SUPPORTING OFFICERS ....................................................9
ELECTION OF OFFICERS ...........................................................................................................................................9
DUTIES OF OFFICERS MAY BE DISCUSSED BEFORE BALLOTS ARE CAST ...................................................9
OFFICERS ARE ELECTED BY ASSEMBLY MAJORITY ...................................................................................... 10
Report Inconclusive Balloting Details ................................................................................................................ 10
DISSATISFACTION WITH OFFICERS .................................................................................................................. 10
FILLING OFFICER VACANCY .............................................................................................................................. 10
Assembly Member May Request Not to Be Officer ............................................................................................ 11
REPRESENTATIVES, TASK FORCES AND OTHER APPOINTEES ....................................................................... 11
GENERAL PRINCIPLES ........................................................................................................................................ 11
APPOINTEES RESPONSIBLE TO ASSEMBLY ................................................................................................... 12
Consult Assembly before Establishing External Contacts ................................................................................. 12
Report to Assembly............................................................................................................................................ 12
APPOINTEES MUST LIVE IN ASSEMBLY’S JURISDICTION .............................................................................. 12
Intercommunity Task Force................................................................................................................................ 13
CHILDREN AND YOUTH MAY SERVE ................................................................................................................. 13
MINORITY REPRESENTATION EXTREMELY DESIRABLE ................................................................................ 14
TERMS OF APPOINTMENT ................................................................................................................................. 14
PUBLIC AFFAIRS CONDUCTED BY NATIONAL ASSEMBLY ............................................................................. 14
Office of Public Affairs ........................................................................................................................................ 14
APPOINTMENTS AS NEEDED BY COMMUNITY ................................................................................................ 15
Administrative Task Forces for Sectors and Neighborhoods ............................................................................. 15
Archives ............................................................................................................................................................. 15
Data Collection and Reporting ........................................................................................................................... 16
Emergency Preparedness ................................................................................................................................. 16
Feasts and Holy Days........................................................................................................................................ 16
Library ................................................................................................................................................................ 16
Marriage and Family Life ................................................................................................................................... 17
Newsletter .......................................................................................................................................................... 17
Personal Status ................................................................................................................................................. 17
Publications/Bookstore Coordinator .................................................................................................................. 17
Property Management and Maintenance .......................................................................................................... 18
Review Task Force ............................................................................................................................................ 18
Technical Support .............................................................................................................................................. 18
LEGAL MATTERS INVOLVING INCORPORATION AND INSURANCE ................................................................. 18
INCORPORATION IS LEGAL FOUNDATION FOR LOCAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES ...................................... 18
Steps of Incorporation........................................................................................................................................ 19
Incorporation Limits Legal Liability .................................................................................................................... 19
Use of Corporate Name Protects Members ...................................................................................................... 19
Maintaining Incorporation .................................................................................................................................. 19
Status of Incorporation ...................................................................................................................................... 20
May Affect Events Sponsored by Assembly .................................................................................................. 20

Revised April 2016
Incorporated Status May Not Be Lost If Assembly Cannot Re-Form ............................................................ 20
INSURANCE .......................................................................................................................................................... 20
Local Assemblies Covered by National Assembly’s General Liability Insurance .............................................. 20
Assembly Sponsorship Required for Insurance Coverage of Activities and Events ..................................... 20
LEGAL LIABILITY FOR ASSEMBLY MEMBERS .................................................................................................. 20

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 3 - Organization of the Local Assembly
3. ORGANIZATION OF THE LOCAL ASSEMBLY
PREPARING MEMBERS TO SERVE
To administer the affairs of communities whose membership will swell into the thousands, and to fulfill their
purpose as the “trusted ones of the Merciful among men,” those who serve on Spiritual Assemblies will
necessarily undergo intense periods of learning in the years ahead.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 27, 2005, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
For its part, and in response to growing numbers attending activities, the Local Assembly is enhancing its
capacity to discharge the many responsibilities it carries on behalf of an expanding community. It seeks to
create an environment in which all feel encouraged to contribute to the community’s common enterprise. It is
eager to see the cluster agencies succeed in their plans, and its intimate familiarity with the conditions in its
area enables it to foster the development of interacting processes at the local level. With this in mind, it urges
the wholehearted participation of the friends in campaigns and meetings for reflection, and it provides
material resources and other assistance for initiatives and events being organized in the locality. The
Assembly is also attentive to the need for new believers to be nurtured sensitively, considering when and how
various dimensions of community life are to be introduced to them. By encouraging their involvement in
institute courses, it aims to ensure that from the very beginning they regard themselves as protagonists in a
noble endeavour to build the world anew. It sees to it that gatherings for the Nineteen Day Feast, Holy Day
commemorations, and Bahá’í elections become opportunities to reinforce the high ideals of the community,
strengthen its shared sense of commitment, and fortify its spiritual character.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 29, 2015, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
SACRED NATURE OF SERVICE ON AN ASSEMBLY
How great the blessedness that awaiteth him that hath attained the honor of serving the Almighty! By My
life! No act, however great, can compare with it, except such deeds as have been ordained by God, the All-
Powerful, the Most Mighty. Such a service is, indeed, the prince of all goodly deeds, and the ornament of
every goodly act. Thus hath it been ordained by Him Who is the Sovereign Revealer, the Ancient of Days.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, CLVII
Unity within the Assembly itself is, of course, of immediate importance to the wider unity your actions are
intended to foster and sustain. At no time can any member of your Assembly afford to be unmindful of this
basic requirement nor neglect to work towards upholding it. Of particular relevance is the attitude that the
members adopt towards their membership on that exalted body. There needs to be a recognition on their part
of the Assembly’s spiritual character and a feeling in their hearts of respect for the institution based upon a
perception of it as something beyond or apart from themselves, as a sacred entity whose powers they have the
privilege to engage and canalize by coming together in harmony and acting in accordance with divinely
revealed principles. With such a perspective the members will be better able to acquire an appropriate posture
in relation to the Assembly itself, to appreciate their role as Trustees of the Merciful and to counteract any
impression that they have assumed ownership and control of the institution in the manner of major
stockholders of a business enterprise.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 19, 1994, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Rights and Responsibilities: The
Complementary Roles of the Individual and Institutions, p. 37
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 3 - Organization of the Local Assembly
Every Local Spiritual Assembly which unitedly strives to grow in maturity and efficiency and encourages its
community to fulfill its destiny as a foundation stone of Bahá’u’lláh’s World Order can add to a growing
groundswell of interest in and eventual recognition of the Cause of God as the sole hope for mankind.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, Riḍván 1985, to the Bahá’ís of the World
[O]ccupation with the mechanics of Bahá’í Administration, divorced from the animating spirit of the Cause,
leads to a distortion, to an arid secularization foreign to the nature of the Administration.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 29, 1988, to the followers of Bahá’u’lláh in the United States of America
MEMBER CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT
All members of the Local Spiritual Assembly should sign a confidentiality agreement promising to preserve the
confidentiality of materials and information to which they are privy in the course of their membership on the
Assembly. Each administrative year, newly elected members who have not yet signed an agreement with the
Assembly should do so. Members who have signed an agreement in the past do not need to sign another
one. The original signed document is to be maintained in the Local Assembly’s permanent files and members
should be given a copy of the signed agreement for their own records. Since the agreement is between the
Local Spiritual Assembly and the member, there is no need to send a copy to the National Spiritual Assembly.
This document is available on the national Bahá’í community website at american.bahai.us.
At the beginning of each administrative year, the Assembly may want to review and reinforce the moral and
spiritual duty of discretion that one assumes upon election to an Assembly. Additionally, it is suggested that
the Assembly clarify which of its agenda items, such as personal matters, should be kept strictly confidential,
and which are subjects of common interest that may be openly discussed.
1. Any information which comes to the notice of an Assembly member, solely by reason of his membership
on that Assembly must not be divulged by that member, even though the Assembly itself may later decide to
share it.
2. The Assembly must itself carefully consider which information should rightly fall in the category of
confidential information and which should not be shared with others, and which information may be divulged
under special circumstances, and how such information may be divulged. Should confidential matters
regarding personal problems be freely shared with others, upon application, the confidence of the believers in
the Assembly and its members will obviously be destroyed. …
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 18, 1968, to a National Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 123
See also:
Consultation with Others — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Communications — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
TRAINING AND TECHNOLOGY FOR ASSEMBLY OFFICERS
The National Spiritual Assembly provides many online resources to assist Local Spiritual Assembly members
with their duties. Resources, such as eMembership2, are a convenient, cost effective means for Local
Assemblies to maintain and access community information in the National Database. Others, such as
Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies, provide essential guidance on the function and duties of Assembly
members. Local Spiritual Assemblies should consider the purchase of computer software and equipment,
internet access, and reference manuals for the purpose of conducting Assembly business as legitimate
expenses.
Specific training for eMembership2 is available upon request. Contact the Baha'i National Center Help Desk
by email at helpdesk@us.bahai.org or toll-free at (866) 818-5724.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 3 - Organization of the Local Assembly
See also:
Appointments as Needed by Community — Technical Support — Ch. 3
RESPONSIBILITIES OF MEMBERS
Membership on an Assembly imposes upon the believer the spiritual responsibility to become an active
participant in its work, to be fully informed of its endeavors, and to ensure that its functioning is in accord
with Bahá’í principles. Every Assembly member should recognize that he has a duty to ensure that his voice
is heard and that appropriate consideration is given to his views. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has stated that consultation
succeeds in avoiding “ill-feeling or discord” when “every member expresseth with absolute freedom his own
opinion and setteth forth his argument,” with the further affirmation by the Guardian that “it is not only the
right but the sacred obligation of every member to express freely and openly his views, without being afraid
of displeasing or alienating any of his fellow members,”…
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 22, 1989, to a National Spiritual Assembly
And those who are called upon from among the ranks of such enkindled souls to serve on the institutions of
that mighty system understand well the Guardian’s words that “their function is not to dictate, but to consult,
and consult not only among themselves, but as much as possible with the friends whom they represent.”
“Never” would they be “led to suppose that they are the central ornaments of the body of the Cause,
intrinsically superior to others in capacity or merit, and sole promoters of its teachings and principles.” “With
extreme humility,” they approach their tasks and “endeavour, by their open-mindedness, their high sense of
justice and duty, their candour, their modesty, their entire devotion to the welfare and interests of the friends,
the Cause, and humanity, to win, not only the confidence and the genuine support and respect of those whom
they serve, but also their esteem and real affection.” Within the environment thus created, institutions invested
with authority see themselves as instruments for nurturing human potential, ensuring its unfoldment along
avenues productive and meritorious.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 2010, to the Conference of the Continental Board of Counselors
The Cause ... is a divine institution whose responsible administrators should consider themselves as mere
channels whereby God protects and guides His Faith. The Administration should never be allowed to become
a bone of contention between individuals and groups. It stands above human personalities and transcends the
scope of their limited and inevitably selfish ideas. Its custodians should continually purge themselves of every
trace of personal desire or interest and become wholly imbued with the spirit of love, of cooperation and of
genuine self-sacrifice.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated August 8, 1933, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 125
See also:
Relationship between the Institution and its Members – Ch.1
DUTIES OF OFFICERS
All Assembly members are ultimately accountable for the work of the Assembly and must ensure that its
responsibilities are carried out satisfactorily by its officers. It is important that proper training and orientation
are given to new officers so they know the duties and expectations of the office.
It should hold regular meetings and ensure that all its members are currently informed of the activities of the
Assembly, that its secretary carries out his duties, and its treasurer holds and disburses the funds of the Faith
to its satisfaction, keeping proper accounts and issuing receipts for all contributions
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 30, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 118.5
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 3 - Organization of the Local Assembly
The National Spiritual Assembly has the responsibility to ensure that contributions received are properly
receipted, and satisfactory accounts kept of all receipts and disbursements. While the Treasurer normally is
the officer in charge of such a sacred obligation, this does not mean that other members are thereby relieved
of all responsibility, or are deprived of their right of access to details related to the current operation of the
Assembly, in all its aspects.
Such right and responsibility vested in the individual members of the Assembly do not vitiate the
confidentiality of Bahá’í contributions, since the information made available to the Treasurer or other
members of the Assembly is to be treated in strict confidence.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 11, 1977, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 863
See also:
Election of Officers — Duties of Officers May Be Discussed Before Ballots Are Cast — Ch. 3
CHAIRPERSON
The first condition is absolute love and harmony amongst the members of the assembly. … The second
condition is that the members of the assembly should unitedly elect a chairman and lay down guide-lines and
by-laws for their meetings and discussions. The chairman should have charge of such rules and regulations
and protect and enforce them; the other members should be submissive, and refrain from conversing on
superfluous and extraneous matters…
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Άbdu'l-Bahá, pp. 87–88
The role of the chairman is always a delicate one, and requires great wisdom lest the responsibility vested in
the chairman to achieve proper consultation in reaching a group decision becomes domination of the other
members, either inside or outside of meetings. A Bahá'í chairman is not the Bahá'í leader, but rather has the
difficult task of eliciting opinion, assuring the presentation of all facts, and with great self-control guiding the
Assembly to its, not his, best considered decision on any matter before it. However authoritative the chairman
may consider himself to be on a particular subject, or whatever may be his expertise in a given situation, it is
the will of the Assembly which he must elicit and never his own views, however sound they may be.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 19, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Your role as Chairman of the Assembly is to make every effort to ensure that the process of consultation
follows the prescription set forth in the Writings of the Faith, so that the Assembly decision represents the
considered view of the majority of its members.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 16, 1987, to an individual believer
Concerning the duties of the Chairman of the Local Spiritual Assembly or the National Spiritual Assembly;
he is supposed to share, freely and fully, in the discussions of all subjects under the consideration of these
bodies, and to register his vote regarding each one of them. The duty of a Bahá’í Chairman is not only to
guide the course of the discussion, but also to express his own viewpoint without any reservation whatever.
He is entitled to exercise both of these functions.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 10, 1936, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 102
In regard to the Assembly meeting, the Chairperson has the responsibility to:
•
Call the meeting to order
•
Maintain the overarching focus of the Assembly upon the goals of the current Plan
•
Ensure that there is free and open discussion during the meetings, that it is kept to the point, and that
all members are given the opportunity to contribute to the consultation
•
Clarify decisions or motions so that they are fully understood and can be accurately recorded in the
minutes
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 3 - Organization of the Local Assembly
•
Call for a vote when appropriate, if consensus is not evident
•
Consult with the Secretary to set the agenda
•
Facilitate the completion of agenda items as much as possible, particularly the most timely, with
flexibility as needed
•
Participate as an equal during consultation
Each Assembly should agree on the details necessary for maintaining an orderly flow of consultation and
should revise them as required.
See also:
The Administrative Aspect — Chairing the Feast — Ch. 7
Ch. 4, Functioning of the Local Assembly
VICE-CHAIRPERSON
The Universal House of Justice has asked us to advise you that the appropriate procedure would be for the
Vice-Chairman of the Assembly to chair the meetings in the absence of the Chairman. If the Vice-Chairman
happens to be also absent, then the Assembly should decide who among the members present should chair the
meeting.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 10, 1987, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 103
A Vice-Chairperson does not automatically become Chairperson if the office of Chairperson becomes vacant.
An election must be held and all members of the Assembly are eligible to be elected. If someone who already
holds an officer position is elected, it is preferable for that person to choose one position or the other and for
someone else to be elected to the remaining position.
SECRETARY
Generally, secretarial functions include the following:
•
Prepare the agenda for the Assembly meetings, usually in consultation with the Chairperson
•
Record all minutes of the Assembly meetings and the annual meeting
•
Establish and/or maintain an email account specifically for the Local Spiritual Assembly.
•
Receive mail and email for the Assembly and present communications of all kinds to the Local
Spiritual Assembly at meetings
•
Answer correspondence on behalf of the Local Spiritual Assembly
•
Maintain a filing system for all correspondence, community bulletins, and so on
•
Make notes of recommendations made at the Nineteen Day Feast and present them to the Assembly
at the next meeting
•
Advise the community of any action taken or consideration given to such recommendations.
•
Ensure that the contact information for the members within the Assembly’s jurisdiction is current in the
National Database.
•
Advise the Bahá’í National Center of all enrollments, transfers, changes of address, and changes in
personal status, marriages, divorces and deaths in the community
•
Send out written notices of the Annual Meeting so that they are received at least 15 days before the
annual meeting on the first day of Riḍván
•
Follow-up on Assembly requests for periodic reports from task forces and other appointees as well as
responses to Assembly communications
•
Bring appropriate files, correspondence, and references from the Writings which relate to Assembly
meeting agendas
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 3 - Organization of the Local Assembly
An Assembly may choose to divide these duties among its members. For example, it may have any or all of
the following: a Corresponding Secretary, a Recording Secretary, a Membership Secretary, a Personal Status
Secretary, and/or a Public Affairs liaison. In some larger communities, the work of the Secretary may warrant
hiring paid staff, in addition to any volunteers. In such cases, the Assembly should ensure that the persons
hired are trustworthy and able to maintain the Assembly’s confidentiality. Any support staff are supervised by
the Secretary.
The Assembly may assign other members access to the Assembly email and eMembership2 accounts to
facilitate the Secretary’s responsibilities in their absence. It should be noted, however, that such access
should be restricted to current Assembly business and uphold the same level of regard for confidentiality.
Generally speaking the Secretary of an Assembly must be careful to convey exactly what the majority
decision or advice of the body was. There can surely be no objection to his putting it in proper terms and
clarifying the matter according to the decisions or instruction of the Assembly. But he should of course not
introduce his personal views unless endorsed by the Assembly.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 19, 1947, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 111
See also:
Election Held at Annual Meeting — Preparation for Annual Meeting and Election — Ch. 2
Assembly’s Contact Information is Public— Ch. 4
Correspondence — Assembly Should Review All Outgoing Communications — Ch. 4
Access to Records — Ch. 4
Preparation of Agenda
The Agenda is usually prepared by the Secretary, sometimes in consultation with the Chairman or other
member or members of the National Spiritual Assembly. Immediately after a Spiritual Assembly meeting, all
items not cleared should be transferred to a new draft Agenda in preparation for the next meeting. Then, as
each new matter arises, it should be entered under the appropriate heading. In this way the Agenda can be
built up gradually. A few days before the Assembly meeting, the completed draft could be duplicated for the
members. At the beginning of each meeting, any additional urgent items which have developed or items
which individual members wish to raise can be added.
Extract from an enclosure, “A Suggested Guide for National Secretaries”, with a letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May
4, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The previous guidance, while written for National Spiritual Assemblies, is applicable to Local Assemblies as
well.
TREASURER
The National Spiritual Assembly has the responsibility to ensure that contributions received are properly
receipted, and satisfactory accounts kept of all receipts and disbursements. While the Treasurer normally is
the officer in charge of such a sacred obligation, this does not mean that other members are thereby relieved
of all responsibility, or are deprived of their right of access to details related to the current operation of the
Assembly, in all its aspects.
Such right and responsibility vested in the individual members of the Assembly do not vitiate the
confidentiality of Bahá’í contributions, since the information made available to the Treasurer or other
members of the Assembly is to be treated in strict confidence.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 11, 1977, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 863
It is important for your Assembly, in future, to explain to persons who are entrusted with the money of the
Faith that in view of the National Assembly’s obligation to protect Bahá’í funds, the Assembly will hold them
responsible for all moneys they receive, and they should therefore render proper accounts to the National
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 3 - Organization of the Local Assembly
Spiritual Assembly, be faithful custodians of God’s trust, and be assured that such honesty and faithfulness
will be richly rewarded from on High.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 18, 1980, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 864
The Treasurer may also have an assistant or a task force to assist in carrying out these responsibilities, if the
need exists. For more details on the work of the Treasurer, contact the Office of the Treasurer at the Bahá'í
National Center.
MEMBERS RESPONSIBLE FOR ASSISTING AND SUPPORTING OFFICERS
Each member of the Assembly has a responsibility to support and assist the Assembly’s officers in the
performance of their duties. For example, when the Assembly elects its Chairperson and Secretary, it is
expressing its collective will that the people elected serve in those capacities. It is expected and appropriate
that the other members of the Assembly will allow and, if needed, assist the officers to perform their duties.
If a member of the Assembly is concerned that an officer is not functioning properly within the limits of the
authority given to him or her by the Assembly, that member is free, of course, to request that this be a matter
for consultation by the Assembly; but should not take it upon him or herself to challenge the officer’s actions.
See also:
Dissatisfaction with Officers — Ch. 3
ELECTION OF OFFICERS
The officers of the Spiritual Assembly shall consist of a Chairman, Vice-Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer and
such other officers as may be found necessary for the proper conduct of its affairs. The officers shall be
elected by a majority vote of the entire membership of the Assembly taken by secret ballot.
Articles of Incorporation, Constitution, and By-Laws of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States: By-Laws
of a Local Spiritual Assembly, Article VII
[W]e are asked to say it is preferable that a person hold no more than one office, but it is within the
discretion of your Assembly to permit a member to hold two offices.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 4, 1984, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 98
The National Spiritual Assembly feels that the offices of Chairman, Vice-Chairman and Secretary should be
held by different people.
See also:
Reporting Annual Election Results — Ch. 2
DUTIES OF OFFICERS MAY BE DISCUSSED BEFORE BALLOTS ARE CAST
The House of Justice also feels that as the work of the Faith expands and the duties of officers, particularly
on National Spiritual Assemblies, acquire more importance, it is permissible and at times advisable to discuss
the duties incumbent upon and required of each officer before ballots are cast.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 9, 1987, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 97
See also:
Duties of Officers — Ch. 3
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 3 - Organization of the Local Assembly
OFFICERS ARE ELECTED BY ASSEMBLY MAJORITY
The majority of all nine members of an Assembly, or a majority of all members of a committee, is necessary
to elect officers. All members of the Assembly or committee must be given an opportunity to cast their
ballots.
However, in case of unavoidable absence, it does not contravene the spirit of the By-Laws if the member casts
his ballot by mail or by telephone. All other details in the application of these principles are within the
discretion of the Assembly.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 6, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Any officer elected must have received at least five votes, even if only five members are present. The ballots
of any absentee members cannot be counted if re-voting is necessary. If for any reason no member receives
five votes, then the Assembly must in consultation appoint one or more temporary officers to function until
the next meeting, and must call another meeting as soon as possible to elect permanent officers.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated September 26, 1983, to a local Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no 101
See also:
Election of Officers — Ch. 2
Participation — Quorum — Ch. 4
Report Inconclusive Balloting Details
In the election of officers for an Assembly, the complete result of each vote should be known to all members
of the Assembly. The names and tally should be given by the tellers, and if no member received the required
majority, the members should proceed to vote again. Voting should not be confined to those receiving the
highest number of votes.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 4, 1981, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 99
DISSATISFACTION WITH OFFICERS
As regards the question of what procedure the Bahá’í Assemblies should adopt when dissatisfied with the
services of any of their officers, should such dissatisfaction involve the loyalty of an Assembly officer to the
Faith, he should, following a majority vote, be dismissed. But in case the dissatisfaction is due to the
incompetence of a member, or simply to a neglect on his part to discharge his duties, this does not constitute
sufficient justification to force his resignation or dismissal from the Assembly. He should be kept in office
until new elections are held.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated November 22, 1940, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 116
When an Assembly officer refuses to shoulder the responsibilities of his office and is unwilling to cooperate
with his Assembly for the purpose of finding a solution to the problem, or is unable to discharge his/her duties,
it will be necessary for the Assembly to make alternate arrangements to have the duties carried out.
See also:
Members Responsible for Assisting and Supporting Officers — Ch. 3
Removal of Member — Ch. 2
Participation — Ch. 4
FILLING OFFICER VACANCY
All members of a Spiritual Assembly are eligible for election when the Assembly has a vacant office to fill.
Since it is preferable that a person hold no more than one Assembly office, if a member who has been serving
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 3 - Organization of the Local Assembly
as another officer is elected, a new vacancy is created and the Assembly should then elect someone else to
fill it.
Assembly Member May Request Not to Be Officer
As you know the beloved Guardian highly reprobated resignation from any office to which a believer has
been elected and it is certainly best, at this present state of the Cause, for the friends to accept elective service
whenever they are called upon to do so. However, there is no objection for an overburdened believer asking
the Spiritual Assembly to which he may be elected not to appoint him as an officer or to a committee.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 9, 1970, to a National Spiritual Assembly
We have also been asked to point out that although it is the obligation of a Bahá’í to serve on an Assembly,
either Local or National, when elected, on several occasions the beloved Guardian pointed out that before the
election of officers, if any member had a good reason in his own opinion why he should not be elected to one
of the offices of the Assembly, he was free to suggest that he should not be so elected.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 9, 1987, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 97
See also:
Assembly's Contact Information is Public — Ch. 4
REPRESENTATIVES, TASK FORCES AND OTHER
APPOINTEES
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
Membership in an assembly or committee is a form of service, and should not be looked upon as a mark of
inherent superiority or a means for self-praise.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 27, 1938, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Dawn of a New Day, p. 201
Committees … are characterized by the Guardian as “bodies that should be regarded in no other light than
that of expert advisers and executive assistants.”
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 30, 1997, to all National Spiritual Assemblies
In the appropriations made to committees … supervision, careful planning and lack of extravagance should
be observed and be seen to be upheld.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 25, 1975, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 162.28
One who has lost his voting rights … cannot hold office or be appointed to a committee …
Attachment to a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 9, 1985, to a National Spiritual Assembly,
in Lights of Guidance, no. 216
Appointment of individuals to task forces, committees or as representatives should be kept to a minimum in
terms of both numbers of individuals appointed and the length of service requested so as to free individuals to
follow their personal teaching initiatives, in support of the goals of the Plan.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 3 - Organization of the Local Assembly
APPOINTEES RESPONSIBLE TO ASSEMBLY
All local committees are directly and solely responsible to the local Assembly which alone can exercise the
power of supervision over them.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated February 16, 1939, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 575
[R]egarding local Bahá’í committees; these, though different in their functions enjoy equal rights, and are
subject to responsibilities and obligations which, although varying in degree, are equally binding on them all.
These local committees, being appointed by the Local Spiritual Assembly itself, are responsible to that body
alone, and they can be dissolved, and their membership altered by it at any time. The local committees are the
hands of the Spiritual Assembly that has appointed them …, and as such are subject to its rulings.
The Local Spiritual Assembly cannot delegate to any one of the local committees the authority to exercise any
control or supervision over any other committee or body which it has itself appointed. All local committees
are directly and solely responsible to the Local Assembly which alone can exercise the power of supervision
over them.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated February 16, 1939, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 575
Appointees made aware of personal information in the course of carrying out their responsibilities for the
Assembly are bound by the same rules of confidentiality and privileged communications that apply to
Assembly members and should protect the security of the information.
The records of the Local Assembly’s appointees are the property of the Assembly and must be transferred to
it in the event of the dissolution of a task force or the end of an individual’s appointment.
See also:
Consultation — Ch. 4
Access to Records — Retrieving Records from Persons Leaving Assembly Membership or Appointment — Ch. 4
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
Consult Assembly before Establishing External Contacts
Task forces or other appointees should not contact a prominent person or try to associate with other
organizations in support of mutual goals without first consulting with their Assembly and adhering to guidance
from the Office of Public Affairs (usnsa-opa@usbnc.org) concerning such contacts. Local and National
Spiritual Assemblies plan and direct the public affairs work of the Faith, and individuals carry it out on behalf
of the institutions. Association requires close scrutiny because it implies automatic representation of the Faith.
Report to Assembly
Among the responsibilities of task forces and other appointees is the obligation to provide reports of their
activities, findings or other information to the Local Spiritual Assembly prior to the Annual Meeting and at any
other time the Assembly specifies.
See also:
Annual Meeting and Report — Ch. 2
Duties of Officers — Secretary — Ch. 3
APPOINTEES MUST LIVE IN ASSEMBLY’S JURISDICTION
The House of Justice does not deem it administratively correct for a Local Assembly to appoint believers
who do not reside within its jurisdiction to membership in its local committees. However, committees of
Spiritual Assemblies are perfectly entitled to seek the advice either through consultation or correspondence of
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 3 - Organization of the Local Assembly
anybody they wish, Bahá'í or non-Bahá'í, and this would of course include any believer outside the
jurisdiction of the Spiritual Assembly to which they are responsible.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 31, 1991, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Intercommunity Task Force
The Assembly that sponsors an intercommunity project or activity may retain complete authority for planning
and responsibility by mutual agreement of the participating communities. The sponsoring Assembly may
appoint a task force from their own membership and invite other Assemblies or groups to designate members
from their respective communities to represent them on the task force. The task force then plans and
executes the intercommunity activity according to the approved and delegated limits of authority. Two or more
adjacent Assemblies may agree to alternate or rotate responsibility for sponsorship of a continuing effort.
Funds should be held and disbursed by the sponsoring body through its elected Treasurer, and an accounting
must be made to the participating Assemblies.
If an intercommunity event is to take place in an area within an Assembly’s jurisdiction, those planning the
event must first obtain the permission of that Assembly. For insurance purposes and to ensure accountability
of the funds, it is preferable that any event be sponsored by an Assembly.
See also:
Assistants to Auxiliary Board Members — Assistants Can Serve on Administrative Institutions — Ch. 1
Ch. 1, Foundation and Relationships of the Local Assembly
CHILDREN AND YOUTH MAY SERVE
The question of young Bahá’ís being permitted to serve on committees other than the Youth Committee has
been raised in a number of letters recently, and in considering the matter he felt that Bahá’í young people
under twenty-one should not be denied the privilege of committee work. Though they cannot be voting
members of Bahá’í communities (or exercise the electoral vote at all until they reach that age), and though
they cannot, likewise, be elected to Assemblies, there is no reason why they should not serve the Cause on
various committees as all committees, national or local, are subordinate to Assemblies and their members not
elected but appointed, and appointed by Assemblies. We have many devoted and talented young believers
who can be of great assistance to the Cause even though not yet legally of age.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated February 2, 1945, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 574
The enthusiastic participation of the youth also highlighted the fact that they represent a most responsive
element of every receptive population to which the friends have sought to reach out.  What has been learned
in this regard is how to help young people become aware of the contribution they can make to the
improvement of their society.  … As youth advance along the path of service, their endeavours are integrated
seamlessly into the activities of the cluster, and as a consequence, the entire community thrives as a cohesive
whole.  Reaching out to the families of young people is a natural way of strengthening community building.
Institutions and agencies are being challenged to increase their own capacity in order to find ways of
systematically realizing the potential of the youth.
Letter of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 29, 2015, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
Both children of Bahá’í parents, and children who, with their parents’ consent, declare their faith in
Bahá’u’lláh before they are fifteen years old, are regarded as Bahá’ís and it is within a Spiritual Assembly’s
discretion to request such children to undertake work of which they are capable in the service of the Faith,
such as service on suitable committees.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 12, 1975, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 520
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 3 - Organization of the Local Assembly
Revised April 2016
MINORITY REPRESENTATION EXTREMELY DESIRABLE
[B]earing in mind the extreme desirability of having the minority elements participate and share
responsibility in the conduct of Bahá’í activity, it should be the duty of every Bahá’í community so to arrange
its affairs that in cases where individuals belonging to the diverse minority elements within it are already
qualified and fulfill the necessary requirements, Bahá’í representative institutions, be they Assemblies,
conventions, conferences, or committees, may have represented on them as many of these diverse elements,
racial or otherwise, as possible.
Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, pp. 35-36
See also:
Considerations for Diverse Populations —- Minorities — Ch. 6
TERMS OF APPOINTMENT
Although National Assemblies and Local Assemblies may provide for continuity of Committee personnel by
re-appointment of members each year, Assemblies should not appoint members of Committees for a term of
more than one year.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 20, 1966, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 544
As regards the appointment of committees on a yearly basis, we refer to the Guardian’s instructions on page
141 of Bahá’í Administration that “… the renewal, the membership, and functions … should be reconsidered
separately each year by the incoming National Assembly. …” Individuals appointed to committees should
identify themselves with functions and objectives which normally extend beyond the term of their
appointment. Just as members of the National Assembly relate themselves to goals of the Nine Year Plan,
members of Local Assemblies and committees should do likewise, so that a single dynamic spirit may
animate the important work for which each Assembly or committee is responsible.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 23, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 551
PUBLIC AFFAIRS CONDUCTED BY NATIONAL ASSEMBLY
Public affairs refers to the development and management of the relationships of the Bahá’í community with
governments, organizations of civil society, the media, prominent people, and the public.  Public affairs is
conducted by the elected institutions of the Faith on behalf of the Bahá’í community. This assures that the
public face of the Faith is consistent and dignified, and accurately portrays Bahá’í principles and positions
Bahá’í positions on global issues are determined by the Universal House of Justice, whereas issues of
national or state concern are the purview of National Spiritual Assemblies. Local Bahá’í issues are the
responsibility of Local Spiritual Assemblies. It is essential that Assemblies not act outside their assigned
jurisdiction.
Office of Public Affairs
The National Spiritual Assembly’s public affairs work is managed by its Office of Public Affairs in Washington,
D.C., which is part of the Office of the Secretariat.  Should questions arise concerning any aspects of local,
state, or national public affairs work, please feel free to contact this office by email at bahaius@usbnc.org or
by phone (202) 833-8990.
The mandate of the Office of Public Affairs is to defend the Bahá’í community where it faces persecution and
to help advance the processes toward world peace.  To this end, the Office engages in discourse and
advocacy in a range of social spaces on a number of topics including defense of the Bahá’ís of Iran, human
rights, advancement of women, sustainable development and global prosperity and interfaith collaboration
and activities at the national level.

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 3 - Organization of the Local Assembly
Revised April 2016
The Office of Public Affairs provides guidance to Local Spiritual Assemblies, communities, and individuals
regarding local-, state- and national-level public affairs issues, opportunities and activities. It also oversees
training for Regional Bahá’í Councils, Local Spiritual Assemblies and individuals.
The document, Public Affairs, Policies and Guidelines, available at http://american.bahai.us, contains
important information and guidance for Local Spiritual Assemblies to consider in approaching public affairs in
the community. To access public affairs-related information, materials, and resources, please visit
http://publicaffairs.bahai.us.
APPOINTMENTS AS NEEDED BY COMMUNITY
Use of task forces and other appointees enables Assemblies to mobilize human resources in their
communities to facilitate satisfaction of the widely varying needs within each community. Such needs vary
over the course of time in relation to the community’s size, growth, its relationships within its cluster and the
skills, resources, backgrounds and concerns of its membership. Appointments may be fluid and should be
minimized to ensure that human resources are available for the highest priority activities. They should be
reviewed, established, changed and withdrawn according to the essential needs of the community as it
evolves from stage to stage within the cluster process and as its membership changes and develops.
Following are some of the varied appointments that may be made by Assemblies, although others not listed
here may be established as needed or may have a different focus than described below. Such variations are
within the discretion of Assemblies.
Administrative Task Forces for Sectors and Neighborhoods
Significant growth in many large cities has led to the decentralization of aspects of Bahá’í community life,
such as holding of the Nineteen Day Feast. Many urban communities are now divided into sectors, and/or
neighborhoods.
What has brought us particular joy is to see that the process of growth unfolding around the world is
gathering momentum in urban centres as well as rural areas. An important step taken in many large cities
early in the current Plan was to divide them into sectors. This proved crucial to planning for sustained growth.
As communities expand, however, it is not unreasonable to expect that cities will need to be divided into
smaller areas — perhaps ultimately into neighborhoods — in each of which the Nineteen Day Feast is
conducted. Maintaining a vision of the potential size of future communities is essential for the further
development of Local Spiritual Assemblies. To administer the affairs of communities whose members will
swell into the thousands, and to fulfill their purpose as the “trusted ones of the Merciful among men,” those
who serve on Spiritual Assemblies will necessarily undergo intense periods of learning in the years ahead.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 27, 2005, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counselors, in
Turning Point, Selected Messages of the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 35.20
See also:
Where to Hold Feast — Decentralization of Feasts in Large Communities — Ch.7
Archives
Preservation of Assembly records and the history of the community are essential aspects of maintaining a
community’s archives. The National Bahá’í Archives has a series of information sheets for setting up local
archives available on request. The National Archives may be contacted by phone at (847) 853-2358, by email
at archives@usbnc.org or through the national Bahá’í community website at american.bahai.us.
See also:
Archives — Ch. 4

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 3 - Organization of the Local Assembly
Revised April 2016
Data Collection and Reporting
Communities have an on-going need for collection and reporting of data to cluster, regional, national and
international institutions as well as for self-assessment and planning. In a small community, the Assembly or
one of its members may handle this task itself but as the community grows it will need to delegate this
responsibility.
Data gathering at the cluster level may be carried out by a variety of individuals at all levels of community life
including tutors, area coordinators, Auxiliary Board members, Area Teaching Committees, and Local
Assemblies themselves. Effective communication will ensure that data gathering is well supported and
synchronized between and among individuals and institutions.
Emergency Preparedness
The National Spiritual Assembly suggests that Local Assemblies develop contingency plans to cope with
emergencies and disasters. These plans need not be complex but preparations should be made before a
disaster occurs. A document that may be useful to planning is the Emergency Contact Information Sheet
which is available on the national Bahá’í community website under Guidelines for Assemblies.
See also:
Disasters — Ch. 14
Feasts and Holy Days
It [the Local Spiritual Assembly] sees to it that gatherings for the Nineteen Day Feast, Holy Day
commemorations and Bahá’í elections become opportunities to reinforce the high ideals of the community,
strengthen its shared sense of commitment, and fortify its spiritual character.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 29, 2105, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
Although the Local Spiritual Assembly is administratively responsible for the conduct of the Feast, it often
calls upon an individual or groups of individuals to make preparations…. In small communities the aspect of
personal hospitality is easy to carry out, but in large communities the Local Spiritual Assemblies, while
retaining the concept of hospitality, may find it necessary to devise other measures.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 27, 1989, to the Followers of Bahá'u'lláh, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, p. 421
See also:
Ch.7, The Nineteen Day Feast
Ch.8, Holy Days and Festivals
Library
An Assembly may wish to appoint a person or a group of people to establish and manage a Bahá'í library for
the community and to assess and augment the availability of suitable Bahá'í lending materials in its public
library system in coordination with its publications coordinator.
Please convey to the members of the newly constituted Library Committee my deep appreciation of their
labors in this important field of service, and assure them of my prayers for their success.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 47
Nor have these individual teachers and Assemblies been neglectful of their duty to place this literature at the
disposal of the public in state, university and public libraries, thereby extending the opportunity to the great
mass of the reading public of familiarizing itself with the history and precepts of the Revelation of
Bahá'u'lláh.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 385

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 3 - Organization of the Local Assembly
Revised April 2016
See alsoSee also:

Marriage and Family Life
Assemblies with large communities may wish to consider appointing a marriage task force to handle matters
related to courtship, marriage, child-rearing, and divorce. Assemblies with smaller communities might wish to
consider appointing a mature and deepened believer from their community to assist the Assembly when such
cases arise. Any individuals appointed would need to have unquestioned capacity to maintain confidentiality.
The Assembly is also free to consult with non-Bahá'ís or Bahá'ís outside its jurisdiction for expert advice.
Some communities have found it useful to designate a specific member of the Assembly as liaison for their
marriage and family life appointees to provide ready access to the Assembly without further workload for the
Secretary.
In some cases this task force might be combined with a Personal Status task force as many of the same skills
are involved.
See also:
Consultation with Others — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Consultation with Others — Counseling Duties May Be Assigned to Individuals or Task Forces — Ch. 4
Communications — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
Responsibility of Local Assembly — Ch. 12
Ch. 11, Marriage and Family Life
Newsletter
Regular publication of a community newsletter can be of great value. This is an area of service admirably
suited to drawing on creative talents in the community. If the newsletter is distributed electronically, there
should be some method of providing newsletters for community members who do not have electronic access.
Many clusters sponsor a “cluster newsletter” to keep the cluster community informed of cluster and local
events. These newsletters are shared with local newsletter coordinators, who share it with their localities.
See also:
Local Publications— Ch. 4
Personal Status
An Assembly may draw upon the resources of its community to assist it in handling personal status matters.
However, individuals appointed to assist with such tasks must be able to maintain confidences, exercise
wisdom and discretion, and be sympathetic without compromising Bahá'í law. This task force might be
combined with the Marriage and Family Life Task force in some communities.
See also:
Consultation with Others — Ch. 4
Communications — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Confidential Materials — Highly Confidential Items May Be Recorded and Filed Separately — Ch. 4
Resource Files — Ch. 4
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
Handling Violations of Bahá'í Law — Ch. 10
Publications/Bookstore Coordinator
The Bahá’í Distribution Service establishes a 30-day charge account for all Local Spiritual Assemblies, which
may identify and authorize a member of the community to purchase materials on its account. Establishing the
member as Publications/Bookstore Coordinator can be arranged by contacting the Distribution Service at

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 3 - Organization of the Local Assembly
Revised April 2016
(800) 999-9019 or bds@usbnc.org. This is the same account used when the Assembly serves as Host for
Unit Convention.
Property Management and Maintenance
Usually the task of maintaining the properties is assigned to a special committee or committees, which
should be consulted by the Assembly and can suggest a suitable amount to be set aside annually.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 13, 1981, to National Spiritual Assemblies, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 866
For more information, contact the Bahá'í Center Assistance Corporation at www.bahaicenterassistance.org.
See also:
Legal Matters Involving Incorporation and Insurance — Ch. 3
Considerations for Diverse Populations — People with Disabilities — Ch. 6
Review Task Force
It is recommended that Reviewing Committees be small, composed of two or three believers with adequate
education and knowledge of the Cause. It is essential that works submitted be dealt with promptly.
Memorandum from the Research Department, dated July 28, 1998, to the Universal House of Justice, “Memorandum on Bahá’í
Publishing”
For information on the responsibilities of an Assembly to review literature for local use and all “special
materials”, see “Reviewing Bahá’í Literature and Materials”.
See also:
Local Publications — Ch. 4
Reviewing Bahá'í Literature and Materials — Ch. 9
Technical Support
The National Spiritual Assembly is increasingly relying upon computers and the internet to carry out its
functions. Assemblies may find it helpful to appoint someone within the community with the necessary skills
and aptitude to provide technical support for its officers, various task forces and appointees as they carry out
their work on behalf of the Assembly. It may be useful to appoint an individual or task force for expert advice
whenever an upgrade of its computer systems is contemplated.
If this expertise is not found within the Bahá'í community it is permissible to use outside experts.
LEGAL MATTERS INVOLVING INCORPORATION AND
INSURANCE
INCORPORATION IS LEGAL FOUNDATION FOR LOCAL SPIRITUAL
ASSEMBLIES
It is surely very important to give the local Spiritual Assemblies some legal standing, for as the Cause
progresses and its adherents increase, they will be confronted with duties they cannot even imagine at present.
Not only will they have to make contracts for acquiring halls for their meeting place, but also they will be
obliged to create new institutions to care for their sick, poor, and aged people. We hope that before long the
Bahá’ís will even afford to have schools that would provide the children the intellectual and spiritual
education as prescribed in the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and the Master.

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 3 - Organization of the Local Assembly
Revised April 2016
For such duties that will naturally devolve upon the local Spiritual Assemblies there will be an increasing
need for a legal standing. They will have to be considered as a legal person with the power of making binding
contracts.
Shoghi Effendi, in Principles of Bahá’í Administration, p. 48
The legal standing available to a Local Spiritual Assembly is incorporation. Assemblies are currently advised
to incorporate when the community attains a membership of fifteen or more active, permanent (not student or
other transient) adults who reside in the community more than six months of every year.
Steps of Incorporation
Incorporated Assemblies must meet certain legal requirements to maintain their corporate status. These
requirements vary from state to state.
In order to incorporate, the Local Spiritual Assembly should write to the National Spiritual Assembly for
instructions. The Local Assembly should then hire an attorney. After the legal documents have been submitted
to the National Assembly and approved, they can be filed with the appropriate state agency. A copy of the final
documents — with the official acknowledgment (certificate, seal or stamp) that they were filed by the state —
along with the name and address of the attorney should be sent to the National Assembly for its records.
Given the importance of incorporation and the many complicated issues involved, it is important that
Assemblies consult with an attorney to make sure that incorporation is done correctly and that the Assembly
is following the proper procedures to maintain the protection offered by incorporation. Issues related to this
are not limited to those touched upon here.
Incorporation Limits Legal Liability
When a Local Spiritual Assembly becomes incorporated, a legal entity, the 'corporation', comes into being that
has a legal existence apart from the individual members of the Assembly. This legal entity can hold property
and enter into contracts. When the corporation incurs a legal debt, the corporation becomes the liable party,
rather than the Assembly members. If the proper legal steps are taken, the Assembly members would be
insulated from personal liability. In general, incorporation limits the legal liability for the debt obligation to the
assets of the corporation.
Use of Corporate Name Protects Members
It is crucial that the incorporation of each Assembly is done correctly and that its status as a corporation is
clearly conveyed in all communications. It is important to include in all agreements that the Assembly is a
corporation and the name of the state in which the incorporation is registered. If the Assembly has adopted
the word “incorporated” or “Inc.” in its legal name, then it is very important to use that word on its stationery
letterhead and in all agreements that it enters into. It should also be included on Assembly minutes. Failure to
do so may remove from the members of the Assembly the protection which the incorporation might have
afforded.
See also:
Minutes — Ch. 4
Correspondence — Letterhead — Ch. 4
Maintaining Incorporation
The Assembly should consult an attorney to find out if the state it is located in requires any annual reports or
other regular filings to maintain its incorporated status.
See also:
Annual Report of the Local Assembly — Special Requirements for Incorporated Assemblies — Ch. 2

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 3 - Organization of the Local Assembly
Revised April 2016
Status of Incorporation
May Affect Events Sponsored by Assembly
It is advisable for Assemblies to consider their incorporation status as they contemplate sponsorship of events
because of its limits on legal liability. Unincorporated Assemblies may not want to undertake events with
higher exposure to liability.
Incorporated Status May Not Be Lost If Assembly Cannot Re-Form
The incorporated status of a Local Spiritual Assembly is not necessarily lost if it is unable to re-form. It can
continue to exist even if the Assembly is not re-formed, as long as the legal requirements for maintaining
corporate status continue to be met, including filing the annual report with the Secretary of State in the state
of incorporation, if so required. It is suggested that these steps be taken.
INSURANCE
Local Assemblies Covered by National Assembly’s General Liability Insurance
Since Local Spiritual Assemblies may be held responsible for accidents that occur at Assembly-sponsored
activities, the National Spiritual Assembly has found it prudent to protect itself and the Local Assemblies and
their members against claims by extending its liability insurance coverage to Local Assemblies that do not
have a Bahá’í Center.
Within certain limitations, the insurance company providing the umbrella liability policy of the National
Assembly covers institutionally sponsored activities at the local and regional levels, including children’s
classes and other events.
To help defray the additional cost, every Local Assembly is asked to pay the National Assembly a modest
amount each year to the Bahá’í Services Fund. However, the coverage is provided whether or not an
Assembly makes the requested payment.
The insurance policy of the National Spiritual Assembly does not cover communities that have a Center,
regardless of whether the Center is rented or owned. Each community with a Center must have its own
insurance. Also, Bahá’í activities held somewhere other than the Center are not covered by the policy of the
National Spiritual Assembly. The local community should arrange for liability coverage either on per event
basis or have a general policy for such events. For more information consult the Local Bahá’í Centers
Technical Assistance Manual at http://www.bahaicenterassistance.org/
Insurance coverage is a very important and detailed matter. Assemblies that own property or sponsor events
will want to have all relevant information. Additional details on this coverage are available from the Office of
the Treasurer by calling (847) 733-3472 or by email to finance@usbnc.org.
Assembly Sponsorship Required for Insurance Coverage of Activities and Events
Sponsorship implies control over and entails liability for all activities of an event, even if the Local Assembly
was not involved in planning all portions of the event. The only requirement for verification of Assembly
sponsorship is a record of sponsorship in the minutes of the Spiritual Assembly. This record should include a
description of the event and the expected audience.
LEGAL LIABILITY FOR ASSEMBLY MEMBERS
All members of Assemblies have responsibility and therefore legal liability for activities sponsored by their
Local Spiritual Assemblies. Members of Local Assemblies that have become incorporated are afforded
various forms of limited protection from legal liability for activities sponsored by their Local Assemblies. The
extent of the legal protection for members of incorporated Local Spiritual Assemblies varies according to the
laws of the states where they are located. In order to protect members of all Local Assemblies, both

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 3 - Organization of the Local Assembly
Revised April 2016
incorporated and unincorporated, from liability for occurrences at Local Spiritual Assembly sponsored
activities, the National Spiritual Assembly carries public liability insurance for all Local Spiritual Assemblies.
Additional information is available from the Office of the Treasurer.

4. FUNCTIONING OF THE LOCAL ASSEMBLY .............................................................................................................4
ACCOUNTABILITY TO GOD .......................................................................................................................................4
CULTURE OF LEARNING ...........................................................................................................................................4
ASSEMBLY MEETINGS ...............................................................................................................................................5
LOCATION ................................................................................................................................................................6
PARTICIPATION .......................................................................................................................................................6
Prolonged Absence...............................................................................................................................................6
Quorum .................................................................................................................................................................7
If Assembly Unable to Maintain Quorum ..........................................................................................................7
Appointment of Temporary Administrative Committee When Not Functioning ............................................8
Attendance by Non-Assembly Members ..............................................................................................................8
Experts Offering Advice ....................................................................................................................................9
No Administrative Support During Meeting ......................................................................................................9
Interpreters/Translators ....................................................................................................................................9
CONDUCTING MEETINGS ......................................................................................................................................9
Opening Meetings .................................................................................................................................................9
Devotions ..........................................................................................................................................................9
Approval of Minutes ....................................................................................................................................... 10
Review of Agenda .......................................................................................................................................... 10
GATHERING FACTS AND COUNSEL MAY BE DONE BY APPOINTEES ........................................................... 10
DECISIONS BETWEEN MEETINGS ..................................................................................................................... 11
Emergency Committee of the Assembly............................................................................................................. 11
CONSULTATION ....................................................................................................................................................... 12
BENEFITS OF CONSULTATION ........................................................................................................................... 12
CONDITIONS NECESSARY FOR EFFECTIVE CONSULTATION ....................................................................... 12
Attitude of Members towards Membership on the Assembly ............................................................................ 12
Prime Requisites for Effective Consultation ...................................................................................................... 13
Absolute Love and Harmony Must Prevail .................................................................................................... 13
Unity of Assembly of Immediate Importance ................................................................................................. 13
Patience and Restraint Should Characterize Discussions ............................................................................ 13
Prayerfully Seek Divine Assistance When Consulting ....................................................................................... 14
IF CONDITIONS FOR EFFECTIVE CONSULTATION ARE NOT PRESENT ....................................................... 14
PROCESS OF CONSULTATION ........................................................................................................................... 14
Goal Is to Investigate Truth ................................................................................................................................ 14
Must Be Guided by Spiritual Principles ............................................................................................................. 14
Elements of Consultative Discussion ................................................................................................................ 15
Should Not Cause Conflict ............................................................................................................................ 15
Members Must Be Free to Express Their Own Opinions .............................................................................. 15
Expressing Different Opinions ........................................................................................................................... 16
Not Stubbornly Clinging to Personal Opinions .............................................................................................. 16
Acceptance of Assembly’s Decision .............................................................................................................. 17
Promise of Divine Assistance ........................................................................................................................ 17
Acting on Principle ......................................................................................................................................... 17
Dictatorial, Domineering or Superior Attitudes Contrary to Principles ........................................................... 18
Uncompromising in Principle, Flexible in Procedure ..................................................................................... 18
Where Fear Is Present .................................................................................................................................. 18
Additional Facts May Be Needed .................................................................................................................. 19
Ideal to Arrive at Unanimous Decision .......................................................................................................... 19
No Dissenting or Abstaining Votes ................................................................................................................ 19
Consultation between Meetings ........................................................................................................................ 19
Majority Decision Must Be Upheld ..................................................................................................................... 20
God Will Right Any Wrongs Done ...................................................................................................................... 20
Appeal of a Decision .......................................................................................................................................... 20
CONSULTATION WITH OTHERS ......................................................................................................................... 21
Consultation Differs from Confession ................................................................................................................ 21
Confidentiality .................................................................................................................................................... 21
Revised April 2016

Considerations in Bringing a Confidential Matter to Assembly...................................................................... 22
Counseling Duties May Be Assigned to Individuals or Task Forces .................................................................. 22
Fact-Gathering ................................................................................................................................................... 22
Consulting with Individuals during Fact-Gathering ........................................................................................ 23
Believers Enjoined to Cooperate with Assembly ........................................................................................... 23
Personal Consultation with Assembly Members ............................................................................................... 24
Cannot Require Member to Absent Himself .................................................................................................. 24
Other Avenues for Addressing Problems ........................................................................................................... 25
COMMUNICATIONS .................................................................................................................................................. 25
ASSEMBLY’S CONTACT INFORMATION IS PUBLIC .......................................................................................... 25
MINUTES ............................................................................................................................................................... 25
CONFIDENTIALITY ............................................................................................................................................... 26
CORRESPONDENCE ........................................................................................................................................... 27
Incoming ............................................................................................................................................................ 27
Feast Recommendations and Communications ........................................................................................... 27
Outgoing ............................................................................................................................................................ 27
Communicating Outside Continental United States ...................................................................................... 27
When Local Assembly Conveys Message from National Assembly ............................................................. 28
Clarity and Accuracy ...................................................................................................................................... 28
Style of Language Used ................................................................................................................................ 28
Use Full Titles of Institutions .......................................................................................................................... 28
Tone and Impact ............................................................................................................................................ 28
Requests by Individuals for Copies of Assembly Correspondence ............................................................... 29
Letterhead ..................................................................................................................................................... 29
Assembly Should Review All Outgoing Communications ............................................................................. 30
Signature ....................................................................................................................................................... 30
Use Caution Regarding Personal Information ............................................................................................... 30
Transmittal Method ........................................................................................................................................ 30
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS AND WEB-BASED APPLICATIONS ........................................................... 31
Email correspondence ....................................................................................................................................... 31
Caution about Sensitive Information ............................................................................................................. 31
Email Standards ............................................................................................................................................ 31
Online Storage ............................................................................................................................................... 31
Public Posting of Correspondence .................................................................................................................... 31
Messages from Bahá'í Institutions ................................................................................................................ 31
Personal Emails or Letters to Bahá'í Institutions ........................................................................................... 32
Posting Extracts from Bahá'í Publications ......................................................................................................... 32
LOCAL PUBLICATIONS ........................................................................................................................................ 32
Sponsorship of Websites ................................................................................................................................... 32
Bulletins and Newsletters .................................................................................................................................. 32
Reproducing Bahá'í World News Service Articles for Newsletters and Bulletins .......................................... 33
Promotion of Private Businesses Discouraged ............................................................................................. 34
Trademarks ........................................................................................................................................................ 34
Copyrights .......................................................................................................................................................... 34
RECORDKEEPING ................................................................................................................................................... 34
ACCESS TO RECORDS ....................................................................................................................................... 34
Retrieving Records from Persons Leaving Assembly Membership or Appointment ......................................... 35
CONFIDENTIAL MATERIALS ............................................................................................................................... 35
Highly Confidential Items May Be Recorded and Filed Separately ................................................................... 35
ARCHIVES ............................................................................................................................................................. 36
Maintenance of Local Archives .......................................................................................................................... 36
Record Retention ............................................................................................................................................... 36
GUIDELINES FOR DISPOSITION OF ASSEMBLY RECORDS ........................................................................... 37
Records/Information to Be Permanently Retained ............................................................................................ 37
RECORDS/INFORMATION TO KEEP OR DESTROY AT DISCRETION ............................................................. 37
ELECTRONIC RECORDS ..................................................................................................................................... 38
LIBRARY ................................................................................................................................................................ 38
Revised April 2016

RESOURCE FILES................................................................................................................................................ 38
Counseling Resources....................................................................................................................................... 39
LEGAL ASPECTS OF FUNCTIONING ..................................................................................................................... 39
PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS IN CIVIL LAW................................................................................................ 39
Requirements of Privilege ................................................................................................................................. 39
To Preserve Privilege Confidential Statements Must Not Be Overheard .......................................................... 40
If Assembly Receives Subpoena ....................................................................................................................... 40
Agreement Not to Compel Testimony ................................................................................................................ 41
Protect Privileged Status ................................................................................................................................... 41
Member May Be Liable for Breach of Confidentiality ........................................................................................ 41
Confidentiality and Criminal Law ....................................................................................................................... 42
THREAT OF LEGAL ACTION ................................................................................................................................ 42
LEGAL ACTION BY ASSEMBLY ........................................................................................................................... 42
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
4. FUNCTIONING OF THE LOCAL ASSEMBLY
ACCOUNTABILITY TO GOD
Spiritual Assemblies … invested with an authority rendering them unanswerable for their acts and decisions
to those who elect them; solemnly pledged to follow, under all conditions, the dictates of the “Most Great
Justice” that can alone usher in the reign of the “Most Great Peace” which Bahá’u’lláh has proclaimed and
must ultimately establish; charged with the responsibility of promoting at all times the best interests of the
communities within their jurisdiction, of familiarizing them with their plans and activities and of
inviting them to offer any recommendations they might wish to make; cognizant of their no less vital task of
demonstrating, through association with all liberal and humanitarian movements, the universality and
comprehensiveness of their Faith; dissociated entirely from all sectarian organizations, whether religious or
secular; assisted by committees annually appointed by, and directly responsible to, them, to each of which a
particular branch of Bahá’í activity is assigned for study and action; supported by local funds to which all
believers voluntarily contribute … [are] to be regarded as the chief sinews of Bahá’í society, as well as the
ultimate foundation of its administrative structure.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By p. 331
Free from electioneering or such external pressures as those coming from economic power or manipulation
of the press, the believers seek to elect for membership on their governing institutions those persons whom
they regard as best qualified for such office. The elected members are then responsible to God and to their
consciences, rather than to those who elect them.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 18, 2000, to a Local Spiritual Assembly
The Local Spiritual Assembly is not responsible to the community or the individuals that comprise it. While it
should be open and welcoming of input and consultation from others, this information should only help to
guide the Assembly in its search for truth. It must ultimately operate and make decisions according to the
dictates of the laws of God.
CULTURE OF LEARNING
Learning as a mode of operation requires that all assume a posture of humility, a condition in which one
becomes forgetful of self, placing complete trust in God, reliant on His all-sustaining power and confident in
His unfailing assistance, knowing that He, and He alone, can change the gnat into an eagle, the drop into a
boundless sea. And in such a state souls labour together ceaselessly, delighting not so much in their own
accomplishments but in the progress and services of others. So it is that their thoughts are centred at all times
on helping one another scale the heights of service to His Cause and soar in the heaven of His knowledge.
Message from the Universal House of Justice, dated Ridván 2010, to the Bahá’ís of the World
[T]he Bahá’í community has adopted a mode of operation characterized by action, reflection, consultation
and study—study which involves not only constant reference to the writings of the Faith but also the scientific
analysis of patterns unfolding. Indeed, how to maintain such a mode of learning in action, how to ensure that
growing numbers participate in the generation and application of relevant knowledge, and how to devise
structures for the systemization of an expanding worldwide experience and for the equitable distribution of
the lessons learned—these are, themselves, the object of regular examination.
Message from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 2, 2013, to the Bahá’ís of the Iran
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
If learning is to be the primary mode of operation in a community, then visions, strategies, goals and methods
have to be re-examined time and again. As tasks are accomplished, obstacles removed, resources multiplied
and lessons learned, modifications have to be made in goals and approaches, but in a way that continuity of
action is maintained.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, dated January 1, 2001, “The Institution of the Counselors”, p. 14
[Y]ou … will need to cultivate an atmosphere that encourages the friends to be methodical but not rigid,
creative but not haphazard, decisive but not hasty, careful but not controlling, recognizing that, in the final
analysis, it is not technique but unity of thought, consistent action, and dedication to learning which will bring
about progress.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 2010, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
ASSEMBLY MEETINGS
In its own meetings it must endeavor to develop skill in the difficult but highly rewarding art of Bahá’í
consultation, a process which will require great self-discipline on the part of all members and complete
reliance on the power of Bahá’u’lláh. It should hold regular meetings and ensure that all its members are
currently informed of the activities of the Assembly, that its secretary carries out his duties, and its treasurer
holds and disburses the funds of the Faith to its satisfaction, keeping proper accounts and issuing receipts for
all contributions.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 30, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly
It devolves upon us whose dearest wish is to see the Cause enter upon that promised era of universal
recognition and world achievements, to do all in our power to consolidate the foundations of these
Assemblies, promoting at the same time a fuller understanding of their purpose and more harmonious
cooperation for their maintenance and success.
Shoghi Effendi, letter dated February 23, 1924, Bahá’í Administration, p. 42
The Spiritual Assembly must decide how often it should meet in order to properly handle the affairs of the
Cause under its jurisdiction. Twice a week or twice a month is not the point, the point is that it should be alert
and carry on the work adequately.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 23, 1949, to an individual believer, in Directives from the Guardian, p. 7
As a Local Spiritual Assembly is responsible for the organization of Nineteen Day Feasts, and is expected to
make a report of its activities to the community at the Feast, in addition to responding to suggestions
submitted to it, a Local Assembly should meet at least once a Bahá'í month. However, the Universal House of
Justice does not wish to draw hard and fast rules in this matter, and prefers to leave this question to the
discretion of each National Assembly.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 15, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The
Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 1000
A meeting of the Spiritual Assembly is valid only when it has been duly called, that is, when each and every
member has been informed of the time and place. The general practice is for the Assembly to decide upon
some regular time and place for its meetings throughout the Bahá'í year. When the regular schedule cannot be
followed, or the need arises for a special meeting, the secretary, on request by the chairman or any other
member of the Spiritual Assembly, should send due notice to all the members.
Shoghi Effendi, in Principles of Bahá'í Administration, p. 49
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
LOCATION
In general, Assembly meetings should take place within the Assembly's jurisdiction. In selecting a meeting
location, one consideration to keep in mind is the need for confidentiality during Assembly meetings. If
someone, not a member of the Assembly and not invited for a specific purpose, should enter a room where an
Assembly meeting is being held, the meeting could not continue in the presence of the non-member. This
would, of course, be as true of an Assembly meeting held in a Bahá'í home where non-Assembly members,
adult or child, might overhear the consultation, as it would be in any other facility. Attention should also be
given to whether consultation could be overheard from other rooms. In addition to the issue of maintaining
confidentiality, this could jeopardize the Assembly’s legal privilege in communications.
See also:
Participation — Attendance by Non-Assembly Members — Ch. 4
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
PARTICIPATION
Membership on an Assembly imposes upon the believer the spiritual responsibility to become an active
participant in its work, to be fully informed of its endeavors, and to ensure that its functioning is in accord
with Bahá’í principles.
…
It is the responsibility of all members of an Assembly to ensure that its officers are elected properly, function
correctly and discharge their duties in accordance with the decisions of the Assembly.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 22, 1989
Membership in a Bahá’í Assembly or Committee is a sacred obligation which should be gladly and
confidently accepted by every loyal and conscientious member of the Community, no matter how humble and
inexperienced. Once elected to serve in a given Assembly a believer’s duty is to do his utmost to attend all
Assembly meetings, and cooperate with his fellow-members, unless, however, he is prevented from doing so
by some major reason such as illness, and even then he should notify the Assembly to this effect.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 2, 1939, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Dawn of a New Day, p. 79
It is only too obvious that unless a member can attend regularly the meetings of his local assembly, it would
be impossible for him to discharge the duties incumbent upon him, and to fulfill his responsibilities, as a
representative of the community. Membership in a Local Spiritual Assembly carries with it, indeed, the
obligation and capacity to remain in close touch with local Bahá’í activities, and ability to attend regularly the
sessions of the assembly.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated February 16, 1935, to National Spiritual Assemblies, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. II, no. 1384
Prolonged Absence
He [Shoghi Effendi] does not intervene in purely local administrative matters, and it is for the Assembly to
decide, if the absence of a member is prolonged, when they should hold an election to replace that person.
The principle is that the 9 members of the Spiritual Assembly should be reasonably available for meetings. If
their absence from town is prolonged, someone else must fill the vacancy.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated April 5, 1945, to an individual believer
It is establishing a dangerous precedent to allow Assemblies to put a time limit on non-attendance of their
members at meetings of the Spiritual Assembly, beyond which that person is automatically dropped from the
Assembly and a vacancy declared. … There should be no time limit fixed by Assemblies beyond which a
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
person is dropped. Every case of prolonged absence from the sessions of the Assembly should be considered
separately by that Assembly, and if the person is seen to not want to attend meetings, or to be held away from
them indefinitely because of illness or travel, then a vacancy could legitimately be declared and a new
member be elected.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, to an individual believer, in Bahá’í News, no. 208, June 1948, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 175
Quorum
Five members of the Spiritual Assembly present at a meeting shall constitute a quorum, and a majority vote
of those present and constituting a quorum shall be sufficient for the conduct of business except as otherwise
provided in these By-Laws and with due regard to the principle of unity and cordial fellowship involved in the
institution of a Spiritual Assembly.
Articles of Incorporation, Constitution, and By-Laws of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States: By-Laws
of a Local Spiritual Assembly, 1996, Article VIII, Sec. 1
We have your letter of July 20, 1967 asking for clarification of Article VIII, Section 1 of the By-Laws of a
Local Spiritual Assembly which appears on page 19 [p. 26, 1975 ed. Bahá’í Publishing Trust, Wilmette, IL] of
the Declaration of Trust.
A majority of the members present and constituting a quorum is sufficient to carry a motion. Thus, if only
five members of the Assembly are present at a meeting, a majority vote of three is sufficient.
However, Assemblies should take into account the last clause of the first sentence of Section 1 of Article VIII
reading as follows:
... and with due regard to the principle of unity and cordial fellowship involved in the institution of a
Spiritual Assembly.
In other words, members of a Spiritual Assembly should not take advantage of a quorum as an expedient to
pass a motion which would violate the spirit of the above quoted passage.
As your National Assembly has stated, it is desirable that all nine members of a Local Spiritual Assembly be
present at every meeting, and we hope that you will be able to educate members of Assemblies to assume
their responsibilities in this regard.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 6, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 166
If Assembly Unable to Maintain Quorum
When circumstances arise which prevent an Assembly from achieving a quorum for a length of time, it does
not always mean that the Assembly is in jeopardy. If an Assembly knows it will be unable to meet for some
time, it should make arrangements to ensure that the routine affairs of the community continue to be
conducted without interruption. This can be done by delegating authority to Assembly members and by
specifying the range and limits of their responsibilities. When it resumes meeting, the Assembly would then
review and ratify any actions taken by those members. Matters of personal status, however, should not be
handled during this time.
If Assembly membership falls below the point where a quorum can be obtained, the remaining members of
the Assembly should constitute themselves a teaching task force until the Assembly regains its numerical
strength and a quorum can again be obtained. This task force, however, cannot handle issues of personal
status or consult on confidential matters as an Assembly.
If there is a personal status matter that requires the Assembly’s attention, the National Spiritual Assembly
should be contacted about how to proceed.
See also:
Assemblies in Jeopardy of Dissolution — Ch. 2
Representatives, Task Forces and Other Appointees — Ch. 3
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
Decisions between Meetings — Ch. 4
Appointment of Temporary Administrative Committee When Not Functioning
Your Assembly is empowered to name an administrative committee for the … community. Such a committee
should be viewed as being a temporary expedient for maintaining the life and vigor of the community until
such time as the Local Assembly can be reformed; it is not a replacement for the divine institution of the
Local Spiritual Assembly.
With reference to your specific question, the Administrative Committee for … can be named from among the
adult believers of the community, without regard for their election or non-election to the now-lapsed Local
Assembly. The single active youth can be called upon by the Committee for whatever duties he may be able to
undertake. The Committee can continue the Local Bahá’í Fund and also maintain the incorporation of the
Local Assembly.
The National Spiritual Assembly has the authority to call for a by-election for a Local Assembly in the
absence of a quorum of local believers.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated November 8, 1983, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 561
As a temporary step in cases where Local Assemblies fail to meet or to elect officers, and are in effect
inactive, or in communities with lapsed Assemblies, the National Assembly should consider appointing from
among the local believers a small committee which would have administrative and teaching functions. The
committee should strive to establish or maintain community life, with the objective of activating the
Assembly to the point where it could assume its proper responsibilities. Consultation with the Counsellor can
be helpful in taking this step.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated June 9, 1988, to a National Spiritual Assembly
If an Assembly is not functioning, the National Assembly may appoint a committee that has limited
administrative powers but which cannot handle issues of personal status or consult on confidential matters. If
a personal status matter requires attention, the National Assembly should be contacted on how to proceed.
See also:
Assemblies in Jeopardy of Dissolution — Ch. 2
Decisions Between Meetings — Ch. 4
Attendance by Non-Assembly Members
One of the fundamental principles of the Bahá'í Administration is that, other than the members of the
Assembly, no one should be present when a decision of the Assembly is being taken. It is a necessary practice
that Assemblies meet with the Hands of the Cause, Counsellors, Auxiliary Board members, or other
individuals, and freely consult with them on different issues and even arrive sometimes at a joint conclusion;
however, only members of an Assembly should be present when a final decision is taken. This principle
applies, of course, to the functioning of other elected or appointed corporate bodies, such as Regional Bahá'í
Councils.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 2, 1997, to an individual believer
See also:
Auxiliary Board Members — Auxiliary Board Members May Not Be Present When Assembly Takes Decisions — Ch.1
Consultation with Others — Ch. 4
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
Experts Offering Advice
Concerning the attendance of certain individuals at the meeting of the Assemblies and at the invitation of that
body. This, Shoghi Effendi considers to be as expert advice which is absolutely necessary for good
administration. The members of the Assembly are not supposed to know everything on every subject, so they
can invite a person, versed in that question, to attend their meetings and explain his views. But naturally he
will have no right to vote.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 23, 1926, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Consultation: A Compilation:
Extracts from the Writings and Utterances of Bahá'u'lláh, Άbdu'l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi, and the Universal House of Justice, p. 13
No Administrative Support During Meeting
The Guardian regrets that, in the light of the Master’s statement that the deliberations of Assemblies must be
secret and confidential, it is not possible to have a non-Assembly member in the National Spiritual Assembly
meeting ... Highly personal subjects, damaging to the honor and happiness of others, are often taken up by
National Assemblies, and the danger that confidence will be betrayed is already great enough with the 9
chosen representatives of the whole community, let alone introducing non-Assembly members. You will just
have to make your minutes a little more compact and sacrifice, if necessary, a certain amount of efficiency in
order to follow this very important principle.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 5, 1950, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Consultation: A Compilation:
Extracts from the Writings and Utterances of Bahá'u'lláh, Άbdu'l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi, and the Universal House of Justice, p. 18
Interpreters/Translators
The House of Justice has instructed us to say that in cases where a member of an Assembly is unable to
communicate with other members of that Assembly where a different language is employed, there is no
objection to having an interpreter present at their meetings. However, the Local Assembly itself should
approve the selection of the interpreter.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 13, 1984, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The same guidance applies when the Assembly wishes to meet with someone who does not speak English
well enough to be understood by the Assembly, or who would need an interpreter to understand the
Assembly, including persons with significant hearing impairments. Interpreters should be reminded before the
meeting begins that the communications they will hear are strictly confidential and should not be divulged to
anyone.
Interpreting is a complex skill, requiring a high level of fluency in at least two languages, as well as significant
training in the role, protocols, ethics and techniques of interpreting. Should the Assembly find it necessary to
hire an interpreter, it would be a legitimate Assembly expense.
See also:
Children and Youth May Serve — Ch. 3
Resource Files — Ch. 4
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
CONDUCTING MEETINGS
Opening Meetings
Devotions
There are several prayers revealed by Άbdu'l-Bahá for the opening and closing of Assembly meetings,
published in the American Bahá'í prayer books. These or others may be used by the Assembly to help
establish a spiritual atmosphere and supplicate the assistance of God.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
Approval of Minutes
Following its opening prayer(s), the Assembly will wish to review, correct and approve the minutes of the
previous meeting and review the agenda for the current meeting.
The minutes of each meeting must be reviewed at a subsequent meeting of the Assembly and, if necessary,
corrected. The decision of the Assembly to approve the previous minutes and any necessary corrections must
be recorded in the minutes of the meeting where the decision is taken.
The Assembly should not take an inordinate amount of time reviewing and approving its minutes. Ideally,
members will be provided with copies of the minutes for their review prior to the Assembly meeting. Then, at
the meeting, the Chairperson simply calls for any corrections. If there are no corrections, the Chairperson
states that the minutes are approved as submitted and moves to the next order of business. If email is used to
distribute minutes, inclusion of sensitive information should generally be avoided and that portion could be
sent in a safer manner.
Some communities also keep an implementation list which shows who has agreed to do what and by when.
This can be kept by any member and may be referred to in future meetings to ensure completion of tasks. It
may be attached to the minutes.
See also:
Minutes — Ch. 4
Electronic Communications — Caution about Sensitive Information — Ch. 4
Review of Agenda
Whether or not a tentative agenda is circulated prior to any given meeting, the agenda should be reviewed
and agreed upon by the entire Assembly at the beginning of each meeting, at which time additions and
deletions can be made. The Assembly should agree upon which items of business have priority, keeping in
mind that the advancement of the Divine Plan is of paramount priority.
It is suggested that the following be included in Local Assembly consultation, if applicable, and in whatever
order the Assembly desires. It is preferable, however to place the higher priority items towards the top of the
agenda to ensure they are covered and given the attention needed:
•
Opening devotions
•
Approval of Minutes of previous meeting
•
Review of Agenda and additions
•
Review of current Plan goals and progress
•
Treasurer’s Report
•
Secretary’s Report – letters received, etc.
•
Recommendations from previous Feast
•
Task force and other appointee reports
•
Personal status matters
•
Other business
•
Closing devotions
See also:
Duties of Officers — Ch. 3
GATHERING FACTS AND COUNSEL MAY BE DONE BY APPOINTEES
Meetings to gather facts and to counsel believers on matters of personal status can often be conducted by an
Assembly’s appointee(s) on its behalf and a report made to the Assembly instead of being done by the
Assembly during its meeting.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
See also:
Duties of Officers — Ch. 3
Representatives, Task Forces and Other Appointees — Ch. 3
Consultation with Others — Counseling Duties May Be Assigned to Individuals or Task Forces — Ch. 4
DECISIONS BETWEEN MEETINGS
Ideally, the Assembly should refrain from making decisions between its scheduled meetings; however, the
urgency of a matter that has arisen may require either a special meeting of the Assembly or a decision by
telephone or email. Special meetings may be called by the Secretary at the request of the Chairperson, or in
his or her absence or incapacity, the Vice-Chairperson, or any three members of the Assembly.
While a community member may feel that they have an urgent matter requiring the immediate attention of the
Assembly, it is for the Assembly, using the procedure above, to determine if the matter requires a special
meeting of the Assembly, whether it be by phone or email consultation, if it can be handled by representatives
of the Assembly or if it can wait until the Assembly’s regular meeting.
In general, it would be best for the Assembly not to make decisions through telephone and email polls of its
members. If the pressing nature of the matter requires such action, however, the Assembly should later ratify
any decisions taken when it has its next scheduled meeting. In taking polls, reasonable efforts should be
made to contact each member of the Assembly for his or her input.
See also:
Participation — Appointment of Temporary Administrative Committee When Not Functioning — Ch. 4
Process of Consultation — Consultation between Meetings — Ch. 4
Electronic Communications — Caution about Sensitive Information — Ch. 4
Emergency Committee of the Assembly
It is entirely appropriate to appoint an emergency committee and to authorize it to take action between
National Spiritual Assembly meetings. Your Assembly can also authorize such a committee to deal with
routine matters in the interim between your Assembly meetings. In both cases full reports of such committee
meetings should be made to all members of the Assembly and all decisions arrived at should be confirmed, or
otherwise, at the next meeting of the National Assembly.
You may decide on the number of the members of the National Assembly to compose such a committee.
However, valid meetings of this committee can take place only when all its appointed members are duly
notified. … Finally, you are advised to have regular meetings of your National Assembly and not to allow the
arrangement for routine and/or emergency actions to take the place of such meetings.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 15, 1977, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 562
[I]t is for your Assembly to define the limits placed upon an emergency committee appointed by you from
among your own membership to take action when absolutely necessary on emergencies which arise between
meetings. Decisions of the committee of course always are subject to the subsequent approval of the National
Assembly as a whole and you should assure yourselves that you are adequately informed of all its actions
taken in your name.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 2, 1971, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 564
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
CONSULTATION
BENEFITS OF CONSULTATION
Consultation bestoweth greater awareness and transmuteth conjecture into certitude. It is a shining light
which, in a dark world, leadeth the way and guideth. For everything there is and will continue to be a station
of perfection and maturity. The maturity of the gift of understanding is made manifest through consultation.
Bahá’u’lláh, in Consultation: A Compilation: Extracts from the Writings and Utterances of Bahá'u'lláh, Άbdu'l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi,
and the Universal House of Justice, p. 1
[C]onsultation giveth him insight into things and enableth him to delve into questions which are unknown.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, in Consultation: A Compilation: Extracts from the Writings and Utterances of Bahá'u'lláh, Άbdu'l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi,
and the Universal House of Justice, p. 6
In all things it is necessary to consult. This matter should be forcibly stressed by thee, so that consultation
may be observed by all. The intent of what hath been revealed from the Pen of the Most High is that
consultation may be fully carried out among the friends, inasmuch as it is and will always be a cause of
awareness and of awakening and a source of good and well-being.
Bahá’u’lláh, in Consultation: A Compilation: Extracts from the Writings and Utterances of Bahá'u'lláh, Άbdu'l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi,
and the Universal House of Justice, p. 2
The principle of consultation, which constitutes one of the basic laws of the Administration, should be
applied to all Bahá’í activities which affect the collective interests of the Faith, for it is through cooperation
and continued exchange of thoughts and views that the Cause can best safeguard and foster its interests.
Individual initiative, personal ability and resourcefulness, though indispensable, are, unless supported and
enriched by the collective experiences and wisdom of the group, utterly incapable of achieving such a
tremendous task.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated August 30, 1933, to an individual believer, in Consultation: A Compilation: Extracts
from the Writings and Utterances of Bahá'u'lláh, Άbdu'l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi, and the Universal House of Justice, pp. 13-14
Indeed, it has ever been the cherished desire of our Master, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, that the friends in their councils,
local as well as national, should by their candor, their honesty of purpose, their singleness of mind, and the
thoroughness of their discussions, achieve unanimity in all things. Should this in certain cases prove
impracticable the verdict of the majority should prevail, to which decision the minority must under all
circumstances, gladly, spontaneously and continually, submit.
Nothing short of the all-encompassing, all-pervading power of His Guidance and Love can enable this newly-
enfolded order to gather strength and flourish amid the storm and stress of a turbulent age, and in the fulness
of time vindicate its high claim to be universally recognized as the one Haven of abiding felicity and peace.
Shoghi Effendi, letter dated January 29, 1925, Bahá’í Administration
CONDITIONS NECESSARY FOR EFFECTIVE CONSULTATION
Attitude of Members towards Membership on the Assembly
Of particular relevance is the attitude that the members adopt toward their membership on that exalted body.
There needs to be a recognition on their part of the Assembly's spiritual character and a feeling in their hearts
of respect for the institution based upon a perception of it as something beyond or apart from themselves, as a
sacred entity whose powers they have the privilege to engage and canalize by coming together in harmony
and acting in accordance with divinely revealed principles. With such a perspective the members will be able
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
better to acquire an appropriate posture in relation to the Assembly itself, to appreciate their role as Trustees
of the Merciful and to counteract any impression that they have assumed ownership and control of the
institution in the manner of major stockholders of a business enterprise.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 19, 1994, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Rights and Responsibilities: The
Complementary Roles of the Individual and Institutions, pp. 37-38
Prime Requisites for Effective Consultation
The prime requisites for them that take counsel together are purity of motive, radiance of spirit, detachment
from all else save God, attraction to His Divine Fragrances, humility and lowliness amongst His loved ones,
patience and long-suffering in difficulties and servitude to His exalted Threshold. Should they be graciously
aided to acquire these attributes, victory from the unseen Kingdom of Bahá shall be vouchsafed to them.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, quoted by Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 21
Absolute Love and Harmony Must Prevail
The first condition is absolute love and harmony amongst the members of the assembly. They must be wholly
free from estrangement and must manifest in themselves the Unity of God, for they are the waves of one sea,
the drops of one river, the stars of one heaven, the rays of one sun, the trees of one orchard, the flowers of one
garden.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, quoted by Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 22
Bahá’u’lláh has given the promise that in every Assembly where unity and harmony prevail, there His
glorious spirit will not only be present, but will animate, sustain and guide all the friends in all their
deliberations.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated November 17, 1933, to a Local Spiritual Assembly, in Directives from the Guardian,
no. 14
Where love, respect and courtesy are genuinely and mutually expressed, estrangement finds no
accommodation and problems become soluble challenges.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 19, 1994, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Rights and Responsibilities: The
Complementary Roles of the Individual and Institutions, p. 35
Unity of Assembly of Immediate Importance
Unity within the Assembly itself is, of course, of immediate importance to the wider unity your actions are
intended to foster and sustain. At no time can any member of your Assembly afford to be unmindful of this
basic requirement nor neglect to work towards upholding it.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 19, 1994, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Rights and Responsibilities: The
Complementary Roles of the Individual and Institutions, p. 37
Patience and Restraint Should Characterize Discussions
Patience and restraint, however, should at all times characterize the discussions and deliberations of the
elected representatives of the local community, and no fruitless and hair-splitting discussions indulged in,
under any circumstances.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated April 18, 1939, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 170
In its own meetings it [the Assembly] must endeavor to develop skill in the difficult but highly rewarding art
of Bahá’í consultation, a process which will require great self-discipline on the part of all members and
complete reliance on the power of Bahá’u’lláh.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 30, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 167
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
Prayerfully Seek Divine Assistance When Consulting
They must when coming together turn their faces to the Kingdom on High and ask aid from the Realm of
Glory. They must then proceed with the utmost devotion, courtesy, dignity, care and moderation to express
their views.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, quoted by Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 22
And, when they are called upon to arrive at a certain decision, they should, after dispassionate, anxious and
cordial consultation, turn to God in prayer, and with earnestness and conviction and courage record their vote
and abide by the voice of the majority, which we are told by our Master to be the voice of truth, never to be
challenged, and always to be whole-heartedly enforced. To this voice the friends must heartily respond, and
regard it as the only means that can ensure the protection and advancement of the Cause.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 64
IF CONDITIONS FOR EFFECTIVE CONSULTATION ARE NOT PRESENT
In short, whatsoever thing is arranged in harmony and with love and purity of motive, its result is light, and
should the least trace of estrangement prevail the result shall be darkness upon darkness. ... If this be so
regarded, that assembly shall be of God, but otherwise it shall lead to coolness and alienation ...
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Άbdu'l-Bahá, p. 88
Should harmony of thought and absolute unity be non-existent, that gathering shall be dispersed and that
assembly be brought to naught.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, quoted by Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 22
PROCESS OF CONSULTATION
Goal Is to Investigate Truth
Consultation must have for its object the investigation of truth. He who expresses an opinion should not
voice it as correct and right but set it forth as a contribution to the consensus of opinion, for the light of reality
becomes apparent when two opinions coincide. A spark is produced when flint and steel come together. Man
should weigh his opinions with the utmost serenity, calmness and composure. Before expressing his own
views he should carefully consider the views already advanced by others. If he finds that a previously
expressed opinion is more true and worthy, he should accept it immediately and not willfully hold to an
opinion of his own. By this excellent method he endeavors to arrive at unity and truth.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 72
In appealing to that which is noble in people, the consultative process also fosters cooperation and the spirit
of service, thus discouraging even subtle forms of intimidation. The goal of consultation is not to win, but to
find the truth. Therefore, opinions are to be offered humbly, not as definitive and final, but as contributions to
the collective effort. Participants are asked to consider carefully the views of others, not clinging to their own,
and accept the best solution that emerges. The result is the release of creativity, and the maturation of
individuals and the community.
Statement by the Bahá'í International Community, dated February 27, 1990, “Equality in Political Participation and Decision-Making”
Must Be Guided by Spiritual Principles
There are spiritual principles, or what some call human values, by which solutions can be found for every
social problem. Any well-intentioned group can in a general sense devise practical solutions to its problems,
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
but good intentions and practical knowledge are usually not enough. The essential merit of spiritual principle
is that it not only presents a perspective which harmonizes with that which is immanent in human nature, it
also induces an attitude, a dynamic, a will, an aspiration, which facilitate the discovery and implementation of
practical measures. Leaders of government and all in authority would be well served in their efforts to solve
problems if they would first seek to identify the principles involved and then be guided by them.
Statement by the Universal House of Justice, dated October 1985, to the peoples of the world, “The Promise of World Peace”, in
Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 438.37
Elements of Consultative Discussion
Should Not Cause Conflict
The honored members of the Spiritual Assembly should exert their efforts so that no differences may occur,
and if such differences do occur, they should not reach the point of causing conflict, hatred and antagonism,
which lead to threats. When you notice that a stage has been reached when enmity and threats are about to
occur, you should immediately postpone discussion of the subject, until wranglings, disputations, and loud
talk vanish, and a propitious time is at hand.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, in Consultation: A Compilation, 2nd ed., 1995, p. 7
In this Cause, consultation is of vital importance; but spiritual conference and not the mere voicing of
personal views is intended. In France I was present at a session of the senate, but the experience was not
impressive. Parliamentary procedure should have for its object the attainment of the light of truth upon
questions presented and not furnish a battleground for opposition and self-opinion. Antagonism and
contradiction are unfortunate and always destructive to truth. In the parliamentary meeting mentioned,
altercation and useless quibbling were frequent; the result mostly confusion and turmoil; even in one instance
a physical encounter took place between two members. It was not consultation but comedy.
... Therefore true consultation is spiritual conference in the attitude and atmosphere of love. Members must
love each other in the spirit of fellowship in order that good results may be forthcoming. Love and fellowship
are the foundation.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 72
The Bahá’ís must learn to forget personalities and to overcome the desire — so natural in people — to take
sides and fight about it. They must also learn to really make use of the great principle of consultation.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated June 30, 1949, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Consultation: A Compilation:
Extracts from the Writings and Utterances of Bahá'u'lláh, Άbdu'l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi, and the Universal House of Justice, p. 18
Members Must Be Free to Express Their Own Opinions
[T]he honored members must with all freedom express their own thoughts, and it is in no wise permissible
for one to belittle the thought of another ...
Άbdu'l-Bahá, quoted by Shoghi Effendi, in Bahá’í Administration, p. 22
The Assembly members must have the courage of their convictions, but must also express whole-hearted and
unqualified obedience to the well-considered judgment and directions of the majority of their fellow-
members.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 28, 1935, to an individual believer, in Consultation: A Compilation: Extracts
from the Writings and Utterances of Bahá'u'lláh, Άbdu'l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi, and the Universal House of Justice, p. 14
No member of an Assembly should feel inhibited from participating in the consultation because of what he
may believe to be deficiencies in his education, experience or knowledge of the Faith. Rather he should rely
with unshakeable faith on the divine confirmations which will bestow wisdom and guidance upon the sincere
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
believer who approaches his assigned functions in a spirit of consecration and humility, beseeching the aid of
the Omniscient Lord. He should also be guided by the observation of the Guardian: “Not infrequently, nay
oftentimes, the most lowly, untutored and inexperienced among the friends will, by the sheer inspiring force
of selfless and ardent devotion, contribute a distinct and memorable share to a highly involved discussion in
any given assembly.”
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated June 22, 1989, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Expressing Different Opinions
The honest expression of feelings in general communication requires wisdom and moderation….
Concerning the open expression of feelings during consultation, clearly the expression of feelings and the
emotional tone of the interaction make an important contribution to the consultative process …
The Master advises the members to “take counsel together in such wise that no occasion for ill-feeling or
discord may arise”. He affirms that:
“This can be attained when every member expresseth with absolute freedom his own opinion and setteth
forth his argument. Should any one oppose, he must on no account feel hurt for not until matters are fully
discussed can the right way be revealed. The shining spark of truth cometh forth only after the clash of
differing opinions …”1
It is important to note that truth emerges after the “clash” of carefully articulated views (which may well be
expressed with enthusiasm and vigour), not from the clash of feelings. A clash of feelings is likely to obscure
the truth, while a difference of opinion facilitates the discovery of truth.
Memorandum from the Research Department, dated February 7, 1993, to the Universal House of Justice, “Issues Concerning
Community Functioning”
1Άbdu'l-Bahá, quoted in Shoghi Effendi, Bahá'í Administration, p. 21
Through the clash of personal opinions, as Άbdu'l-Bahá has stated, the spark of truth is often ignited, and
Divine guidance revealed. The friends should therefore not feel discouraged at the differences of opinion that
may prevail among the members of an assembly, for these, as experience has shown, and as the Master’s
words attest, fulfill a valuable function in all Assembly deliberations.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated April 18, 1939, to an individual believer, in Consultation: A Compilation: Extracts
from the Writings and Utterances of Bahá'u'lláh, Άbdu'l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi, and the Universal House of Justice, p. 15
The second principle is that of detachment in consultation. The members of an Assembly must learn to
express their views frankly, calmly, without passion or rancour. They must also learn to listen to the opinions
of their fellow members without taking offence or belittling the views of another. Bahá’í consultation is not an
easy process. It requires love, kindliness, moral courage and humility. Thus no member should ever allow
himself to be prevented from expressing frankly his view because it may offend a fellow member; and,
realizing this, no member should take offence at another member’s statements.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 26, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 590
Not Stubbornly Clinging to Personal Opinions
They must ... not insist upon their own opinion, for stubbornness and persistence in one’s views will lead
ultimately to discord and wrangling and the truth will remain hidden.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, quoted by Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 22
If he finds that a previously expressed opinion is more true and worthy, he should accept it immediately and
not willfully hold to an opinion of his own.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 72
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
Acceptance of Assembly’s Decision
The Assembly members must have the courage of their convictions, but also must express whole-hearted and
unqualified obedience to the well-considered judgement and directions of the majority of their fellow-
members.”
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 28, 1935, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol.
II, no. 1402
The Bahá'ís are fully entitled to address criticisms to their assemblies; they can freely air their views about
policies or individual members of elected bodies to the assembly, local or national, but then they must whole-
heartedly accept the advice or decision of the assembly, according to the principles already laid down for such
matters in Bahá’í administration.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated May 13, 1945, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 285
He (a Spiritual Assembly member) can ask the Assembly to reconsider a matter, but he has no right to force
them or create inharmony because they won't change.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 19, 1947, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol.
II, no. 1379
A believer can ask the Assembly why they made a certain decision and politely request them to reconsider.
But then he must leave it at that, and not go on disrupting local affairs through insisting on his own views.
This applies to an Assembly member as well.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 19, 1947, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol.
I, no. 32
Promise of Divine Assistance
Should they endeavor to fulfill these conditions the Grace of the Holy Spirit shall be vouchsafed unto them,
and that assembly shall become the center of the Divine blessings, the host of Divine confirmation shall come
to their aid, and they shall day by day receive a new effusion of Spirit.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, in Consultation: A Compilation: Extracts from the Writings and Utterances of Bahá'u'lláh, Άbdu'l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi,
and the Universal House of Justice, pp. 4-5
If a few souls gather together in a beloved meeting with the feelings of the Kingdom, with the divine
attractions, with pure hearts and with absolute purity and holiness, to consort in spirit and fragrance, that
gathering will have its effect upon all the world. The conditions, the words and the deeds of that gathering
will lead the world to eternal happiness and will be an evidence of the favors of the Kingdom. The Holy Spirit
will strengthen them and the hosts of the Supreme Concourse will render them victorious and the angels of
Abhá will come in succession.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Tablets of Άbdu'l-Bahá, v. 3, pp. 508-509
Acting on Principle
Do clearly bear in mind that our emphasis of the spiritual requisites of your functioning is not a mere
expression of pious idealism. Far, far from it. Their exclusion from public discourse and from the
considerations of the world leaders largely accounts for the current state of society. Indeed, they are as
practical in effect as they are spiritual in essence. Employ them consciously, constantly, confidently and see
how your actions will attract the confirmations of the Holy Spirit in the response of the community.
... we pause to assure you of our full awareness of the great burdens you carry and of the ceaseless calls upon
you to render services in the absence of adequate resources. Do not despair. Your capacity to respond will
match any challenge that may confront you in these troubled times; you have only to act on principle. Your
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
community's past has been glorious; its future is great beyond calculation. The divine promises to your
community are certain; the blessings of Bahá'u'lláh are assured as you strive to fulfill His purpose. The wings
of the beloved Master remain spread over you that you may succeed in discharging the tasks He has
especially entrusted to your care. And our love ever surrounds you and your cherished community, growing
stronger at every moment. Step forward then to meet the requirements of the hour with undiminished hope
and confidence.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 19, 1994, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Rights and Responsibilities: The
Complementary Roles of the Individual and Institutions, pp. 45-47
Dictatorial, Domineering or Superior Attitudes Contrary to Principles
Their function is not to dictate, but to consult ... They must, at all times, avoid the spirit of exclusiveness, the
atmosphere of secrecy, free themselves from a domineering attitude, and banish all forms of prejudice and
passion from their deliberations.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 64
See also:
Medical Matters — Mental and/or Emotional Impairment — Ch. 14
Medical Matters — Mental Illness — Ch. 14
And in Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies
Uncompromising in Principle, Flexible in Procedure
The human tendency in past Dispensations has been to want every question answered and to arrive at a
binding decision affecting every small detail of belief or practice. The tendency in the Bahá’í Dispensation,
from the time of Bahá’u’lláh Himself, has been to clarify the governing principles, to make binding
pronouncements on details which are considered essential, but to leave a wide area to the conscience of the
individual. The same tendency appears also in administrative matters. The Guardian used to state that the
working of National Spiritual Assemblies should be uniform in essentials but that diversity in secondary
matters was not only permissible but desirable.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated 3 January 1982, to an individual believer
[I]n matters of principle, therefore, there should be uniformity, while in matters of detail and procedure not
only is diversity permitted, it is also encouraged. As conditions vary from country to country and, indeed, can
vary from community to community within the country, Shoghi Effendi repeatedly advised the friends that
they should be uncompromising in principle but flexible in subsidiary details.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 22, 1986, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 137
Where Fear Is Present
Consultation has been ordained by Bahá'u'lláh as the means by which agreement is to be reached and a
collective course of action defined. It is applicable to the marriage partners and within the family, and indeed,
in all areas where believers participate in mutual decision-making. It requires all participants to express their
opinions with absolute freedom and without apprehension that they will be censured or belittled; these
prerequisites for success are unattainable if the fear of violence or abuse is present.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 24, 1993, to an individual believer
See also:
Jurisdiction — Ch. 12
Self-defense — Orders of Protection — Ch. 10
And in Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
Additional Facts May Be Needed
When it is proposed to put a matter to the vote, a member of the Assembly may feel that there are additional
facts or views which must be sought before he can make up his mind and intelligently vote on the proposition.
He should express this feeling to the Assembly, and it is for the Assembly to decide whether or not further
consultation is needed before voting.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 6, 1970, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, p. 79.5
Ideal to Arrive at Unanimous Decision
Indeed, it has ever been the cherished desire of our Master, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, that the friends in their councils,
local as well as national, should by their candor, their honesty of purpose, their singleness of mind, and the
thoroughness of their discussions, achieve unanimity in all things.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 80
Bahá’ís are not required to vote on an assembly against their consciences. It is better if they submit to the
majority view and make it unanimous. But they are not forced to.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 19, 1947, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 169
It is important to realize that the spirit of Bahá’í consultation is very different from that current in the
decision-making processes of non-Bahá'í bodies. The ideal of Bahá’í consultation is to arrive at a unanimous
decision. When this is not possible a vote must be taken.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 6, 1970, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1963–1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 79.2-79.3
No Dissenting or Abstaining Votes
There are no dissenting votes in the Cause. When the majority of an assembly decides a matter the minority,
we are told by the Master, should accept this. To insist on having one’s dissenting vote recorded is not good,
and achieves no constructive end.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 19, 1950, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 586
Whenever it is decided to vote on a proposition all that is required is to ascertain how many of the members
are in favor of it; if this is a majority of those present, the motion is carried; if it is a minority, the motion is
defeated. Thus the whole question of “abstaining” does not arise in Bahá’í voting. A member who does not
vote in favor of a proposition is, in effect, voting against it, even if at that moment he himself feels that he has
been unable to make up his mind on the matter.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 6, 1970, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1963–1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 79.6
Consultation between Meetings
Occasionally, the Assembly may find it necessary to consult on a pressing matter between meetings by
telephone or by email. In a letter written on its behalf dated August 13, 1998, the House of Justice has stated
that it has no objection to a National Assembly “conducting meetings using technologies such as conference
calls and video-conferencing ... as long as principles of Bahá’í administration are respected.”
The advantages of being together during consultation are that it allows the members to not only hear each
other’s tone of voice, but also to see facial expressions and other body language that may enhance their
comprehension of remarks being made. In email, of course, both these elements are missing, and messages
may therefore be less well understood. This may be particularly important for more delicate or complex
issues. Bearing in mind these considerations, each Local Assembly, when confronted with an emergency,
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
may determine for itself whether to use phone conferencing and/or email but this should not be a regular
practice.
See also:
Decisions between Meetings — Ch. 4
Electronic Communications — Caution about Sensitive Information — Ch. 4
Majority Decision Must Be Upheld
As soon as a decision is reached it becomes the decision of the whole Assembly, not merely of those
members who happened to be among the majority.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 6, 1970, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1963–1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 79.4
But once the opinion of the majority has been ascertained, all the members should automatically and
unreservedly obey it, and faithfully carry it out.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated April 18, 1939, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 170
It is again not permitted that any one of the honored members object to or censure, whether in or out of the
meeting, any decision arrived at previously, though that decision be not right, for such criticism would prevent
any decision from being enforced.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, quoted by Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 22
The believers should have confidence in the directions and orders of their assembly, even though they may
not be convinced of their justice or right. Once the assembly, through a majority vote of its members, comes
to a decision the friends should readily obey it. Specially those dissenting members within the assembly
whose opinion is contrary to that of the majority of their fellow-members should set a good example before
the community by sacrificing their personal views for the sake of obeying the principle of majority vote that
underlies the functioning of all Bahá’í assemblies.
Letter written on behalf Shoghi Effendi, dated October 28, 1935, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 281
God Will Right Any Wrongs Done
We all have a right to our opinions, we are bound to think differently; but a Bahá’í must accept the majority
decision of his Assembly, realizing that acceptance and harmony — even if a mistake has been made — are
the really important things, and when we serve the Cause properly, in the Bahá’í way, God will right any
wrongs done in the end.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 17, 1947, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol.
II, no. 1402
The Assembly may make a mistake, but, as the Master pointed out, if the Community does not abide by its
decisions, or the individual Bahá’í, the result is worse, as it undermines the very institution which must be
strengthened in order to uphold the principles and laws of the Faith. He tells us God will right the wrongs
done. We must have confidence in this and obey our Assemblies.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated 1949, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 283
Appeal of a Decision
[W]henever there is any infringement of Bahá’í rights, or lapse in the proper procedure, the friends should
take the matter up with the Assembly concerned, and, if not satisfied, then with the N.S.A. This is both their
privilege and their duty.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 10, 1942, to an individual believer, in The National Spiritual Assembly: A
Compilation Issued by the Universal House of Justice, p. 55
See also:
Handling Appeals — Ch. 10
CONSULTATION WITH OTHERS
See also:
Participation — Attendance by Non-Assembly Members — Ch. 4
Consultation Differs from Confession
To none is it permitted to seek absolution from another soul; let repentance be between yourselves and God.
Bahá'u'lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, no. 34
Bahá'u'lláh prohibits confession to, and seeking absolution of one's sins from, a human being. Instead one
should beg forgiveness from God. In the Tablet of Bishárát, He states that "such confession before people
results in one's humiliation and abasement", and He affirms that God "wisheth not the humiliation of His
servants". Shoghi Effendi sets the prohibition into context. His secretary has written on his behalf that we ...
are forbidden to confess to any person, as do the Catholics to their priests, our sins and shortcomings, or to do
so in public, as some religious sects do. However, if we spontaneously desire to acknowledge we have been
wrong in something, or that we have some fault of character, and ask another person's forgiveness or pardon,
we are quite free to do so. The Universal House of Justice has also clarified that Bahá'u'lláh's prohibition
concerning the confession of sins does not prevent an individual from admitting transgressions in the course
of consultations held under the aegis of Bahá'í institutions. Likewise, it does not preclude the possibility of
seeking advice from a close friend or of a professional counsellor regarding such matters.
Universal House of Justice in “Notes” appended to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, no. 58
It should be borne in mind that all consultation is aimed at arriving at a solution to a problem and is quite
different from the sort of group baring of the soul that is popular in some circles these days and which borders
on the kind of confession that is forbidden in the Faith.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 19, 1973, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Consultation: A Compilation:
Extracts from the Writings and Utterances of Bahá'u'lláh, Άbdu'l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi, and the Universal House of Justice, p. 21
Confidentiality
Not all matters that come before an Assembly involve confidentiality. It is important for the Assembly to be
clear about which matters, such as personal status, are confidential and which, such as plans for an
upcoming Holy Day, are not. If a member is ever uncertain, he or she should clarify the matter and, until told
otherwise, should assume that the issue is confidential.
Regarding the question of confidentiality, the believers should be educated to a deeper understanding of the
value of their turning to their institutions for assistance with such problems, confident that by this means
justice will prevail. Together with that, it is essential that the members of the Assemblies be fully aware of the
obligation imposed upon them to avoid any leakage of information from the Assembly meeting to other
believers who have no legitimate reason to be so informed.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 12, 1990, to a National Spiritual Assembly
1. Any information which comes to the notice of an Assembly member, solely by reason of his membership
on that Assembly must not be divulged by that member, even though the Assembly itself may later decide to
share it.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
2. The Assembly must itself carefully consider which information should rightly fall in the category of
confidential information and which should not be shared with others, and which information may be divulged
under special circumstances, and how such information may be divulged. Should confidential matters
regarding personal problems be freely shared with others, upon application, the confidence of the believers in
the Assembly and its members will obviously be destroyed.
3. It must be remembered that individuals can reform, and a reprehensible past does not necessarily disqualify
a believer from a better future.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 18, 1968, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no.
See also:
Location — Ch. 4
Communications — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
And in Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies, various topics indexed under “Confidentiality”
Considerations in Bringing a Confidential Matter to Assembly
Members of Assemblies, whether they are assistants [to Auxiliary Board members] or not, are obviously in a
position to receive confidential information as individuals from several sources. It is an important principle of
the Faith that one must not promise what one is not going to fulfill. Therefore, if a Bahá’í accepts confidential
information either by virtue of his profession (e.g., as a doctor, a lawyer, etc.), or by permitting another person
to confide in him, he is in duty bound to preserve that confidentiality.
... It should be clear to the believers that they are not justified in assuming that because a matter is known to
individual members of the Assembly it is therefore before the Assembly itself. If a believer wishes to bring a
matter to the Assembly’s attention he should do so explicitly and officially. If a member of the Assembly
knows of a personal problem, and if he has not undertaken to keep it confidential, he may bring it to the
Assembly’s attention if he feels it would be in the interests of the Faith for him to do so, but he is not obliged
to.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 2, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Messages from
the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 336.4, 336.7
See also:
Assistants to Auxiliary Board Members — Ch. 1
Consultation with Others — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Counseling Duties May Be Assigned to Individuals or Task Forces
Although Local Spiritual Assemblies are primarily responsible for counselling believers regarding personal
problems, there may be times, when in the judgment of the National or Local Assembly, it would be
preferable to assign counselling or advisory duties to individuals or committees. This is within the discretion
of the Assembly.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 27, 1966, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Consultation: A Compilation:
Extracts from the Writings and Utterances of Bahá'u'lláh, Άbdu'l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi, and the Universal House of Justice, p. 19
See also:
Representatives, Task Forces and Other Appointees — Ch. 3
Fact-Gathering
When consulting on a matter the Assembly may find that all the facts have been collected already or can be
supplied by a few members of the Assembly or that the facts are common knowledge to the members.
However, there may be a need to obtain additional information. Using the Assembly meeting itself for this
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
purpose is often not the best use of limited meeting time. Instead, the Assembly may appoint Assembly or
community members to serve as its representatives in gathering additional information. By appointing capable
representatives to gather the needed information on its behalf, the Assembly will be sensitive to the feelings of
the friends who may be hesitant to meet with the full body of the Assembly while at the same time taking care
not to allow its agenda to be dominated by the matter. In other cases, individuals may feel the need to consult
with the full Assembly. The Assembly is free to do so at its own discretion.
In situations when abuse is involved or is suspected, Assemblies and any representatives should review
sections of Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local
Spiritual Assemblies before making decisions about how to proceed or attempting to gather facts.
If the Assembly does decide to use its meeting time to gather information, then, in advance of the meeting, it
should agree on the purpose of the consultation, should assemble the facts already available, and decide the
questions and points to be discussed or clarified during the meeting.
Consulting with Individuals during Fact-Gathering
Obviously lying and backbiting among the friends are prohibited most categorically in the Faith, but when a
friend is reporting to the Assembly on a matter…in the community, the act in itself is not backbiting. Indeed,
the believer is doing his duty by reporting the matter to the Assembly.
From a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 9, 1978
‘Abdu’l-Bahá does not permit adverse criticism of individuals by name in discussion among the friends,
even if the one criticizing believes that he is doing so to protect the interests of the Cause. If the situation is of
such gravity as to endanger the interest of the Faith, the complaint, as your National Spiritual Assembly has
indicated, should be submitted to the Local Spiritual Assembly, or as you state to a representative of the
institution of the Counselors, for consideration and action. In such cases, of course, the name of the person or
persons involved will have to be mentioned.
From a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated September 23, 1975 in Lights of Guidance no.311
During consultation with individual believers, the Assembly should observe the following principles and may
wish to share these points with the person being interviewed:
•
The impartiality of each of its members with respect to all matters under discussion
•
The freedom of the individual to express his/her views, feelings and recommendations
•
The confidential character of the consultation
•
That any opinions expressed are personal and not the view of the Assembly
The Assembly members should be careful not to share their personal opinions during the interview. The
Spiritual Assembly should not make any final decision until the party or parties have left the meeting.
See also:
Representatives, Task Forces and Other Appointees — Ch. 3
Administering Laws — Responsibility of the Individual — Ch.10
And in Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies — Role and Responsibilities of Local Spiritual Assembly — Investigate the Facts
Believers Enjoined to Cooperate with Assembly
Unlike the concept in civil law of privileged communications, in the Faith there is no privilege against self-
incrimination, so when asked to provide information to a Local Spiritual Assembly, a Bahá'í must reply
honestly.
Before Justice, tell the Truth and fear nothing.
Bahá'u'lláh, quoted by Rúḥíyyih Rabbani, The Priceless Pearl, p. 317
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
When an allegation is made that a believer has violated Bahá’í law, irrespective of the consequence in civil
law, the process of investigation calls for a diligent and persistent effort by the Assembly to ascertain the
facts, and for wholehearted cooperation of all concerned in the search for truth. Believers called upon to
provide information should, if necessary, be reminded of the responsibility they bear to speak the truth and of
the spiritual consequences of a failure to do so. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá asserts:
Truthfulness is the foundation of all human virtues. Without truthfulness, progress and success, in all the
worlds of God, are impossible for any soul. When this holy attribute is established in man, all the divine
qualities will also be acquired.
If this “holy attribute” should adorn the behavior of believers toward others, how much more should it
characterize statements which a Bahá’í makes to a divinely ordained institution.
The prospect of a believer’s displaying an attitude of hostility, when being interviewed by a Spiritual
Assembly or its representatives who are seeking to determine the facts of a matter, is abhorrent. All believers
are strongly enjoined to have the utmost respect for the Assemblies, to cooperate fully with them, and to
support their decisions. An Assembly inquiring into a matter should not allow itself to be deterred by the
hostility of a believer who is withholding relevant information; it should appeal to him for cooperation,
remind him forcefully of his responsibilities and, in extreme cases such as threats made to the investigators,
warn him of the administrative consequences of the persistence of his deplorable conduct.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 9, 1991, to a National Spiritual Assembly in Messages
from the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 122.10
See also:
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
Administering Laws — Responsibility of the Individual — Ch.10
Personal Consultation with Assembly Members
Cannot Require Member to Absent Himself
You call attention to the conflict of interest and other problems which can arise if a member of an Assembly
is called upon to consult on a matter which concerns him personally and intimately; for example, to be a judge
in his own case or in that of his spouse. Such a situation can, indeed, produce serious and embarrassing
complications. The House of Justice has held that it is not proper for a member of a Spiritual Assembly to be
debarred from exercising his right to membership in the consideration of such matters. (In some instances, the
individual concerned has exercised on his own initiative the option of absenting himself from the proceedings
to allow his fellow members greater freedom to judge the case.) However, in certain circumstances, an
Assembly may find it wise and helpful to avoid the problems latent in such a situation by adopting different
approaches: it could appoint a special committee to deal with the matter on its behalf; or it could refer the case
to the National Spiritual Assembly for it to deal with, either directly or through a committee.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 2, 1991, to an individual believer
It should also be understood that a member may wish to absent himself from a meeting at which subjects in
which he is personally involved are to be discussed. In such cases he may do so unless the Assembly requires
him to be present.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 22, 1975, to the International Teaching Centre, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 591
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
Other Avenues for Addressing Problems
When a believer has a problem concerning which he must make a decision, he has several courses open to
him. If it is a matter that affects the interests of the Faith he should consult with the appropriate Assembly or
committee, but individuals have many problems which are purely personal and there is no obligation upon
them to take such problems to the institutions of the Faith; indeed, when the needs of the teaching work are of
such urgency it is better if the friends will not burden their Assemblies with personal problems that they can
solve by themselves.
A Bahá’í who has a problem may wish to make his own decision upon it after prayer and after weighing all
the aspects of it in his own mind; he may prefer to seek the counsel of individual friends or of professional
counsellors such as his doctor or lawyer so that he can consider such advice when making his decision; or in a
case where several people are involved, such as a family situation, he may want to gather together those who
are affected so that they may arrive at a collective decision. There is also no objection whatever to a Bahá'í
asking a group of people to consult together on a problem facing him.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 19, 1973, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 589
COMMUNICATIONS
ASSEMBLY’S CONTACT INFORMATION IS PUBLIC
Contact information for every Local Spiritual Assembly and registered Bahá'í group is public information
available on the public website (www.bahai.us) and to any individual or organization that requests it, including
the name of the designated contact person, email address, phone number and postal address. For dignity
and privacy reasons, communities are encouraged to obtain an email account and Post Office box for their
official communications rather than using personal addresses, particularly when there might be safety issues
in regards to the Secretary. Additional advantages to obtaining a Post Office box include:
•
The contact information for every Local Spiritual and registered group is public information available
to any individual or organization that requests it.
•
It may give a more formal impression of the Faith when an address is given in the newspaper or used
on flyers, etc.
•
It facilitates mail retrieval when the Secretary is unable to check the mail (e.g. when the Secretary is
on vacation).
•
Retains address for Assembly when officer moves from the community.
See also:
Uses of Bahá’í Membership Data — Bahá’í Directories and Membership Data are Confidential — Ch. 5
MINUTES
The nature of Assembly minutes is a matter for the body itself to decide. Naturally all important subjects
brought up and notes must be recorded, but how detailed the record must be is for the members themselves to
decide.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October, 19 1947, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Unfolding Destiny: The
Messages from the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith to the Bahá'í Community of the British Isles, p. 448
The fundamental purpose of the minutes of an Assembly is to record its decisions together with sufficient
background to show the basis of each decision. Beyond these essentials, the Assembly is free to include any
other matters which it believes would be valuable for its work. It may decide to include in its minutes, or to
attach to them as an appendix, a record of advice or information given orally to the Assembly by a Counsellor
or any other person. If so, it would be acceptable in principle — although not compulsory — for the
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
Assembly to check with the speaker as to the accuracy of the wording of such a record before including it.
The advisability of doing so will depend upon the length and complexity of the subject. In many instances no
check may be required. In any case, such a verification is clearly not the same thing as submitting the minutes
themselves to the approval of an external authority. The same principles apply to the minutes of a Regional
Bahá'í Council or a committee.
When a Counsellor is involved, his wishes in this regard should be respected and the above courtesy should
definitely be extended to him.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 5, 1999, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The Spiritual Assembly minutes are strictly confidential and must not be shared with non-members.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated February 24, 1950, to an individual believer.
A. Background information should be brief, but in sufficient detail so that anyone reading the Minutes will
understand the decision which follows.
The full discussion, extraneous details regarding motions, and the names of individuals making the motions
should not be recorded. Names are included, however, when recording reports given on special assignments
or situations.
In every case the background to a decision should be recorded in the Minutes next to the decision itself. There
may be cases where the decision is self-explanatory and no background information is required.
B. Some Assemblies distinguish the vote by making it a separate indented paragraph and some Assemblies
capitalize the decision when Minutes are typed, so there is no question as to which is background information
and which is the vote of the Assembly. Another way of identifying actions of the Assembly is to number each
decision of the Assembly, and this is sometimes done on a continuing basis throughout the year.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 4, 1972, to all National Spiritual Assemblies
As with other important documents, minutes of meetings should be titled, dated and page numbered. If the
Assembly is incorporated, the legal name of the Assembly should also appear on the document.
See also:
Referring Matters to Auxiliary Board Members — Assembly Meeting Minutes May Be Shared with Auxiliary Board
Members — Ch. 1
Annual Report of the Local Assembly — Ch. 2
Incorporation is Legal Foundation for Local Spiritual Assemblies — Use of Corporate Name Protects Members — Ch. 3
Conducting Meetings — Approval of Minutes — Ch. 4
Recordkeeping — Ch. 4
CONFIDENTIALITY
It is extremely important to safeguard the Assembly’s reputation for trustworthiness by strict adherence to
principles of confidentiality. No Assembly can function effectively as a shepherd of its community if such
confidences are violated. Each member of the Assembly and each person the Assembly appoints to handle
personal matters must be vigilant in guarding his or her speech in addition to fully safeguarding any written
material in his or her possession that may contain personal information.
It is important to keep in mind that confidentiality applies even when communicating with members of the
same family. It cannot be assumed that one member of a family will want other members to know what they
said to the Assembly, particularly in the case of domestic violence. Legal aspects of this issue are covered
elsewhere in this publication.
Assembly members must each sign a confidentiality agreement when first elected to the Assembly. The
Secretary can obtain the form from the Office of Assembly Development directly or through the national
Bahá’í community website.
See also:
Member Confidentiality Agreement — Ch. 3
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
Consultation with Others — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Confidential Materials — Ch. 4
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
And in Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies, indexed references to confidentiality
CORRESPONDENCE
Most communications to and from the Assembly may be classified generally as incoming and outgoing
correspondence and further classified as an action item or one designed to provide information. All types of
correspondence, including copies of emails, letters and memoranda should be dated and filed, as should
records of phone calls and personal communications.
See also:
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
Incoming
The Secretary or Secretariat usually receives and opens all incoming correspondence, including email which
is then shared with the Assembly at its next meeting, unless the Assembly has instructed that it be routed
elsewhere (for example, to a task force). It is not always necessary for the full Assembly to read the
correspondence in its entirety. Often Assemblies make use of a correspondence log to list all correspondence,
including brief descriptions and notes as to whether an item is for informational purposes or if action is
required. Based on the log, the Assembly can decide which items it wishes to read in full.
Once a letter or message has been reported and recorded in the minutes, if necessary, it should be kept in
the Assembly’s files for future reference. However, some items can be discarded when they cease to be
current.
See also:
Duties of Officers — Secretary — Ch. 3
Guidelines for Disposition of Assembly Records — Ch. 4
Feast Recommendations and Communications
Recommendations and suggestions from the friends at the Feast are treated as incoming correspondence.
The Secretary, assistant Secretary or whomever is designated should make accurate and thorough notes at
Feast so that the suggestions and recommendations of the believers can be discussed by the Assembly.
Feast recommendations are to be recorded in the minutes of the Assembly Meeting, as are the decisions the
Assembly makes about them. Also, the Assembly must be sure to inform the community about its decisions
on the recommendations.
Among the correspondence the Assembly receives are letters and announcements to be shared with the
friends at the Feast. All correspondence need not be read at the Feast; instead, highlights of the letter can be
read, or the correspondence can be shared through newsletters or placed on bulletin boards for review by the
friends. The Assembly instructs the Secretary about what correspondence it wishes to share and whether the
entire letter or just portions of the letter should be read.
See also:
Duties of Officers — Secretary — Ch. 3
The Administrative Aspect — Recommendations at Feast — Ch. 7
Outgoing
Communicating Outside Continental United States
From time to time, a Local Spiritual Assembly may think it necessary to communicate with an individual or
community in another country or national Bahá'í jurisdiction.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
In all cases, it is necessary that the initial communication be conveyed through the United States' National
Spiritual Assembly to the other National Spiritual Assembly, rather than directly by the Local Assembly. While
this procedure may seem cumbersome, it is necessary because the National Assembly has received
guidelines from the Universal House of Justice about communicating with other national communities which
often are vital to the safety of the believers in those countries of which the local Assembly may be unaware.
Alaska and Hawaii have separate National Spiritual Assemblies. Therefore, all communication with those
Bahá'í communities should also be channeled through the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States.
When Local Assembly Conveys Message from National Assembly
If the National Assembly instructs the Local Assembly to convey something to a person or persons in the
community, the letter from the National Assembly to the Local Assembly should not be photocopied and
simply passed on to the person(s), unless the National Assembly has specifically given instructions to do so.
Rather, a new letter should be composed from the Local Assembly to the person(s) expressing the intent of
the National Assembly (relevant passages may be quoted) and also conveying appropriate observations and
comments from the Local Assembly. The nature and tone of the Local Assembly's comments will depend
upon the circumstances and the relationship of the person(s) to the Assembly.
Clarity and Accuracy
The Assembly should strive to make its communications accurate, clear, consistent, complete, insightful, and
relevant. Sometimes the Assembly may choose to dictate the exact wording of a message or portions of it but
often will leave that task to the Secretary. If the Secretary does not fully understand the Assembly’s intent, a
draft of the letter or email should be brought to the Assembly for approval, or the Assembly may request to
review the final draft before it is sent.
Secretaries should refrain from introducing personal opinion, personal style, or anything that would detract
from the dignity and station of the institution of the Local Spiritual Assembly such as might happen with a very
informal style and tone of communication. The Assembly should also bear in mind that it has the obligation to
maintain an institutional memory of its decisions and actions and that it is accountable now and in the future
for whatever was, is or will be written on its behalf.
Style of Language Used
The Assembly should generally avoid use of acronyms, even when addressing Bahá'ís. When communicating
with non-Bahá'ís, the Assembly should avoid use of Bahá'í-related language, terms and acronyms that might
seem strange or require an especially informed understanding of Bahá'í administration, history or teachings.
In communicating with persons who may have a limited grasp of English, care needs to be taken to express
guidance and concepts in a straightforward and understandable manner, while maintaining the dignity of the
station of the Assembly as well as respect for the capacity and dignity of the recipient.
Use Full Titles of Institutions
In general, correct titles should be spelled out in full in formal written or published material regardless of the
media used. For example, use “National Spiritual Assembly,” rather than “NSA,” and “Local Spiritual
Assembly,” rather than “LSA” and “Auxiliary Board member” or “member of the Auxiliary Board” rather than
“ABM.”
In the body of a communication or publication where the full title has been spelled out once, subsequent
references to the institution may use the shortened title, such as, “National Assembly” or “Local Assembly.”
Tone and Impact
We are deeply concerned that some of the letters written on behalf of your National Assembly contain
brusque language, are critical in tone, lack warmth, and reflect impatience with friends whose actions have
brought problems to your council chamber.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
We fully understand how the burdensome weight of these vexatious problems, many of which could and
should have been avoided, can tax the patience of the most serene. The temptation to react sharply and
defensively is very great, yet we know that, as Trustees of the Merciful, we should not do so. Not only is it
contrary to the spirit of the instructions of the Master and the Guardian, with which you are thoroughly
familiar, but giving vent to such reaction tends to evoke resentment rather than bringing about the desired
result.
… We mention these examples only to call to your notice a reaction which may not have been apparent to
those writing letters on your behalf, in the hope that ways and means can be found to insure that the manner in
which you convey your views or decisions to the friends will promote the utmost unity, concord and
understanding.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 25, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The temperament of authority in the administration of justice varies according to the degree of the gravity of
each case. Some cases require that the Assembly take action that is firm or drastic. Even so, Assembly
members have always to be mindful that the authority they wield must in general be expressed with love,
humility and a genuine respect for others. Thus exercised, authority strikes a natural note and accords with
that which is acceptable to spiritually attuned and fair minded souls.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 19, 1994, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Assembly communications should both reflect the dignity of the station of the Assembly as well as reflect the
love of the institution. They should always be courteous, direct in a tactful way, and respectful. Even when
reprimanding a believer, the Assembly should do it in a manner which helps and even encourages the person,
while still expressing the authority of the Assembly.
Requests by Individuals for Copies of Assembly Correspondence
If an individual misplaces his or her copies of personal correspondence between his or herself and the Local
Spiritual Assembly, the Assembly is free to provide duplicate copies upon request.
The Local Assembly should not provide copies of correspondence involving others, including other family
members, unless the individual was originally a recipient of the correspondence, as communications between
individuals and Spiritual Assemblies are considered confidential and privileged in the legal sense.
Communications between Local and National Spiritual Assemblies on matters of personal status are likewise
privileged and the Local Assembly should not share copies of such correspondence with individuals unless
the National Assembly has specifically requested or given approval to do so.
The Freedom of Information Act does not apply to the correspondence of Bahá'í institutions or other private
corporations. Its provisions apply exclusively to agencies of civil government.
See also:
Communications — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Recordkeeping — Ch. 4
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
Administering Laws — Preserving Confidentiality — Ch. 10
Letterhead
The letterhead of an Assembly’s stationery should read “Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of …” (do not use
the word “Local”). If the Assembly is incorporated and has adopted the word “incorporated” or “Inc.” in its legal
name, it is important to use that word in its letterhead. The design of the letterhead should be simple and
dignified. The National Spiritual Assembly discourages the addition of photographs, artwork and quotations
from the Writings. The Greatest Name in any of its forms should also not be used. Similarly, an image of the
Bahá'í House of Worship should not be used.
See also:
Incorporation is Legal Foundation for Local Spiritual Assembly — Use of Corporate Name Protects Members — Ch. 3
Use of the Greatest Name — Ch. 9
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
Assembly Should Review All Outgoing Communications
The Local Spiritual Assembly is responsible for all communications which come from its Secretary and its
appointees. Therefore, it should establish a procedure for reviewing communications. It may, for example,
delegate responsibility to some of its members to write or review certain letters for the Assembly, including the
correspondence of its appointees. Likewise, it may ask the Secretary to respond to certain topics according to
previously established policies and procedures. Although the Assembly has the right to see all
communications before they are sent, this is usually impractical and unnecessary for the Assembly to do as a
whole.
See also:
Duties of Officers — Secretary — Ch. 3
Signature
Assembly letters should be signed on behalf of the Assembly with a personal signature of the officer
delegated to do so.
Use Caution Regarding Personal Information
When communicating in any public media, it is generally best to avoid using personal home addresses, email
addresses, and telephone numbers whenever possible, due to safety considerations. If personal contact
information is used, it should always be with the explicit permission of the person(s) involved. Official mail
addresses and Bahá’í phone numbers, not home phone numbers, are the preferred listings for contact
information.
See also:
Assembly’s Contact Information is Public — Ch. 4
Uses of Bahá’í Membership Data — Bahá'í Directories and Membership Data are Confidential — Ch. 5
Transmittal Method
Once a message is finalized the Secretary of the Assembly, as the Assembly’s spokesperson, usually
conveys it on the Assembly’s behalf. In some cases the Assembly may wish to delegate this responsibility to
another Assembly member or community member who then functions as the Assembly’s representative.
Unless specified by the Assembly, the individual tasked with conveying the message can determine the best
manner for conveying it.
The advantage of written communication is that it provides an opportunity to review what is being said for tone
and content before it is conveyed and that it preserves an exact record; the advantage of spoken
communication is its convenience and personal contact. If an Assembly has something important to convey,
writing it generally increases the likelihood that it will be understood, if it is carefully written. It is best to put
most communications in writing (preferably not handwritten). In cases where it is deemed appropriate to
convey a message orally, it is wise to follow the conversation with a letter to ensure that both parties
understand what was discussed. Language differences and literacy problems should be taken into
consideration when determining how best to convey a message.
Assemblies should make copies of outgoing correspondence and retain them in the Assembly’s files.
See also:
Participation — Interpreters — Ch. 4
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS AND WEB-BASED APPLICATIONS
Email correspondence
Local Spiritual Assemblies are requested to establish and maintain an email account for their institution.
Communications from the National Spiritual Assembly are predominantly electronic only, sent via email and
posted on the national Bahá’í community website, american.bahai.us.
Caution about Sensitive Information
Both Local Spiritual Assemblies and individual believers should be cautious about using email for
communicating personal or sensitive information due to the inherent security limitations of email: of its
susceptibility to unauthorized revision and to being misdirected, of its ease of limitless propagation by unwary,
unwise, or maliciously motivated individuals, and of its susceptibility to theft and misuse through viruses and
worms. Sensitive materials may be more secure when sent via regular mail. If an Assembly chooses to use
email for distributing its meeting agendas, minutes or any other confidential documents, it should ensure that
each member has a private email address not shared with others who are not on the Assembly. In addition, it
should remember that once documents are sent out over the internet, they are no longer encrypted. Thus, it is
better to send password protected links to confidential documents stored online rather than attach these
documents to the emails themselves. Particularly sensitive issues should not be sent through email.
Online consultation about sensitive matters is generally discouraged. Except in unusual circumstances where
time is of the essence, sensitive matters should be handled during in-person meetings.
See also:
Decisions between Meetings — Ch. 4
Process of Consultation — Consultation between Meetings — Ch. 4
Consultation with Others — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Communications — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Email Standards
Local Spiritual Assemblies and their representatives should strive to maintain the same high standard of
correspondence in email communications as they adhere to in other correspondence. Specific tips about
using email are widely available on the Internet and may be found by searching on the keywords “email
etiquette” or “netiquette.”
See also:
Correspondence — Ch. 4
Online Storage
Local Spiritual Assemblies may use online storage such as Google Docs. They should, however, consider
carefully the security of any website, ensuring that files are encrypted and sensitive information is not
accessible by third parties. Passwords should be strong and used both for the website host and any private
information sent by email.
Public Posting of Correspondence
Messages from Bahá'í Institutions
With regard to your email of 29 August 1997 to the Universal House of Justice, we are to confirm your view
that it would not be appropriate to publish Ridván messages, or any other such messages intended for Bahá’ís
only, on websites accessible to the general public. With regard to whether or not it would be appropriate to
quote from such messages in individual postings to public Internet discussion groups or email lists, this is a
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
matter in which the friends should exercise their own discretion and judgment, taking into consideration the
requirements of wisdom and restraint.
Email written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated March 24, 1997, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Bahá’ís are reminded that emails or letters from the institutions of the Faith to the Bahá’ís should generally
not be disseminated in public venues, electronic or otherwise without permission from the sender and the
recipient.
Personal Emails or Letters to Bahá'í Institutions
On occasion, letters addressed to Bahá'í institutions have been made public, particularly through Internet
forums and distribution lists.
While in some cases there may be no objection to making public original letters addressed to Bahá'í
institutions, in other cases original letters could include materials that might be harmful or could create
discomfort or distress to certain individuals. It is contrary to Bahá'í practice to share such information widely or
to place private matters in a public forum such as the Internet.
Believers should consult the appropriate Bahá'í institution before posting or disseminating correspondence of
this nature on the Internet.
Posting Extracts from Bahá'í Publications
Believers are free to post extracts from the writings of the three Central Figures of the Faith and Shoghi
Effendi without requesting permission. However, permission is required to use other copyrighted material.
When quoting from the Bahá’í writings, care should be taken to make sure that the quoted passages are
accurate, presented in a dignified way and properly attributed.
LOCAL PUBLICATIONS
Local Assemblies and individuals may at times wish to publish materials for use on the local level. Material
which relates directly to the work of the Faith in a particular locality or suits specific local needs is appropriate
for local publication. All such publications must be reviewed by the Local Spiritual Assembly, according to the
standards for Bahá’í literature review, to ensure that they represent the Faith accurately and with dignity. If the
Assembly has questions, they may be referred to the Office of Review, review@usbnc.org. Online
publications follow similar guidelines.
See also:
Reviewing Bahá’í Literature and Materials — Ch. 9
Sponsorship of Websites
Websites that are commissioned by institutions or agencies of the Faith for projects, communities, or clusters
are considered “official” and must be sponsored by the commissioning institution. The institution, committee or
agency is responsible for monitoring the content of the site.
The responsibility of a Local Assembly to monitor the content of a website extends to sites sponsored by the
Local Spiritual Assembly for specific purposes, such as, informational sites for schools, local Baha'i
publication(s), or social and economic development project(s) taking place under its sponsorship.
For information regarding websites and individual use of the internet, visit the Bahá’í Internet Agency's
website, www.bcca.org/bia or contact the Office of Communications at communications@usbnc.org.
Bulletins and Newsletters
While fully conscious of the importance of such Bahá’í local organs in bringing more unity and cooperation
among individual believers and groups, Shoghi Effendi feels that great care should be taken lest local
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
activities of this nature tend to develop to an extent that would jeopardize the national activities of the Faith.
Just as the local Bahá’í Fund must under all circumstances be subordinated to the national fund, so also every
local circular letter should be considered as subsidiary to the national report of Bahá’í activities in every
country. Such a coordination between local and national efforts is indispensable, not only because of its
economic advantages, but essentially due to the fact that upon the application of the principle underlying this
process must inevitably depend the effective working of the entire administrative machinery of the Faith.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated February 20, 1934, to a Local Spiritual Assembly
Concerning local Bahá’í newsletters the Guardian strongly feels that they should be primarily devoted to the
spread of local news and activities, and should under no circumstances contain any statement implying
criticism of or even interference with the policy of the National Spiritual Assembly. They may occasionally
refer to items of a national scope, but this should be done only with the view of assisting and not hindering the
national body of the Cause to carry out effectively its program and decisions. There is thus a definite line of
demarcation between correspondence initiated by local and national assemblies.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated May 10, 1934, to a National Spiritual Assembly
In reply to your inquiry of 18th November 1982 about Bahá'í newsletters and bulletins being for Bahá'ís only,
we are asked by the Universal House of Justice to quote below from letters written by the Universal House of
Justice or at its instruction to other National Assemblies which have asked similar questions.
With reference to your letter of October 31st asking why the circulation of Bahá'í News should be
restricted to Bahá'ís we wish to point out that the same reasons that make it necessary to restrict the
attendance at a Nineteen Day Feast to Bahá'ís only apply also to the circulation of Bahá'í Newsletters.
A Bahá'í news bulletin assumes that the reader is a Bahá'í and it would therefore normally contain items
which are purely of a domestic nature of no interest to the general public and which, in some cases, may
give the wrong impression to those not familiar with the Bahá'í teachings. However, there is no objection
to the friends showing their newsletters to non-Bahá'ís if they so wish or find it useful at times.
Furthermore, if the words “For Bahá'ís Only” which appear on some newsletters are found to be offensive
to the non-Bahá'í, there is no requirement for these words to appear on every copy of the newsletter.
In answer to your query concerning the policy of keeping "Bahá'í News" for Bahá'ís only, the House of
Justice instructs us to explain that the circulation of Bahá'í Newsletters is restricted to Bahá'ís because
they are vehicles of news that is primarily of internal interest to the friends and the Assembly should be
able to write freely to the believers without having to so word the information that it would be easily
understandable to a non-Bahá'í reader. In other words, a Bahá'í newsletter is not secret but is an internal
journal intended for an informed readership.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 19, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 360
See also:
Appointments as Needed by Community — Newsletter — Ch. 3
Assembly’s Contact Information is Public — Ch. 4
Correspondence — Assembly Should Review All Outgoing Communications — Ch. 4
Bahá’í Prisoners — Restrictions on Practice of Faith in Prisons — Ch. 14
Reproducing Bahá'í World News Service Articles for Newsletters and Bulletins
The Bahá'í World News Service, an agency of the Bahá'í International Community, reports on the activities,
projects and events of the worldwide Bahá'í community. All stories and photographs produced by the Bahá'í
World News Service may be freely reprinted, re-emailed, re-posted to the World Wide Web and otherwise
reproduced by any individual or organization, subject to the certain restrictions. Contact the Bahá'í World
News Service for details at, www.news.bahai.org.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
Promotion of Private Businesses Discouraged
The National Spiritual Assembly discourages the placement of advertisements in official Bahá’í publications
for products and services which will bring personal gain.
Trademarks
To protect the Faith against misuse of certain of its terms and symbols, and to prevent their entering the public
domain (that is, open to use by anyone in any manner), the National Spiritual Assembly has taken the
precaution of having terms and symbols identified with the Bahá’í Faith legally registered as Bahá’í
trademarks.
The word "Bahá'í" is a United States' registered Service Mark on the Principal Register of the United States'
Patent & Trademark Office. Other National Spiritual Assemblies may have registered it in their respective
countries as well. It is used in connection with books, pamphlets, periodicals, house newsletters, and news
reports. It is also part of other trademarked terms such as "National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the
United States," "Bahá'í Publishing Trust," “Bahá'í Publishing" and "Bahá'í Radio."
Local Spiritual Assemblies have permission to use the word “Bahá'í” in the names and titles of publications,
such as “Anyplace Bahá'í Newsletter,” or “Anyplace Bahá'í Community” website.
Since “Bahá'í” is a derivative of the sacred word “Bahá,” the Universal House of Justice has pointed out that it
should not be used for commercial purposes. Individual Bahá'ís, therefore, should not use the word “Bahá'í” in
identifying or advertising their private ventures, products or services.
Copyrights
Copyright laws protect literary, musical and artistic works by ensuring that individual works are not copied
without permission from the copyright holder. Assemblies should not reproduce copyrighted material without
first gaining permission both for moral reasons and because it may result in legal action against the user.
RECORDKEEPING
The records of an Assembly include such items as the agenda, minutes, task force and other appointee
reports, correspondence, membership statistics, financial records, incorporation papers, local bulletins and
newsletters, photographs, and any other type of document that enables the Assembly to maintain accurate
information and a history of its own actions and its community’s history, status and activities. The Assembly
may also find it helpful to maintain a discrete record of policy decisions for ease of reference.
The Spiritual Assembly, as a permanent body, is responsible for maintaining all its records, including
Minutes of meetings, correspondence, and financial records, throughout its existence as a Bahá'í institution.
Each officer, therefore, on completing his or her term of office, shall turn over to the Assembly all records
pertaining to the business of the Assembly.
Shoghi Effendi, in Principles of Bahá'í Administration, p. 51
ACCESS TO RECORDS
In reply to your letter of May 13th, 1976, the Universal House of Justice instructs us to say that all members
of the Spiritual Assembly are equal and should have access to the files and minutes of the Assembly of which
they are members. It is, however, within the discretion of any Spiritual Assembly to so organize its files and
records that certain items could be listed as “confidential” and access to those so classified could only be had
by a specific decision of the Assembly itself.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 8, 1976, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 164
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
All current decisions should be shared with all Assembly members, even when they have been absent from a
meeting. In this way, Assembly members are informed of all Assembly decisions during their period of service.
Without specific Assembly approval, a Local Assembly member should not go back and read minutes
containing confidential information from Assembly meetings before he or she was a member of the Assembly.
If, for some reason, the Assembly wishes to authorize individuals to review minutes from previous years, it
should make a specific decision to give permission to those individuals.
Retrieving Records from Persons Leaving Assembly Membership or
Appointment
All Assembly materials, such as copies of minutes, correspondence, files, and so on must be retrieved from
any person leaving Assembly membership or appointment (such as appointment to a personal status
committee or task force) and copies of such materials residing on personal computers or backups should be
erased. If materials are not returned voluntarily by the person, the Assembly should seek guidance from the
National Spiritual Assembly about recovering them.
The Local Assembly will want to have appointees sign confidentiality agreements similar to those the local
Assembly members sign.
See also:
Legal Action by Assembly — Ch. 4
CONFIDENTIAL MATERIALS
It is of the utmost importance that confidential materials regarding personal status be protected from
accidental or deliberate intrusion. Only persons designated by the Local Assembly should have access to
confidential records.
Draft copies of confidential materials should be shredded or otherwise securely disposed of when no longer
needed, such as when a letter or report is finalized, and a finished copy placed in the Assembly’s confidential
files.
See also:
Communications — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Access to Records — Ch. 4
Archives — Record Retention — Ch. 4
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
Highly Confidential Items May Be Recorded and Filed Separately
As a general rule, all matters acted upon by an Assembly are recorded in its minutes. The Assembly may,
however, record highly confidential items separately, but it should be noted in the minutes that confidential
items have been separately recorded. Thus, if for any reason the Assembly is requested to supply information
concerning such items and it feels that it would be preferable for the matter not to be divulged, it can express
its views before acceding to the request.
…The decision about what matters should be treated confidentially is made by the Assembly, which also has
the duty to respect requests from individuals who express the wish that certain matters be handled on a
confidential basis.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated March 2, 1987, to a Local Spiritual Assembly
If a Local Assembly makes a decision to begin keeping separate minutes for confidential matters when it has
not done so in the past, it is not expected to go back through its minutes from previous years in order to
separate personal matters from other decisions. However, it should adopt some means of indicating archival
minutes that could contain confidential information.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
See also:
Administration of Justice  — Ch. 10
Disruptive Behaviors -- Responding to Behavior Problems — Ch. 14
ARCHIVES
The purpose of Bahá’í Archives is to ensure that all non-current records and papers of permanent
administrative, historical, doctrinal, or sacred value are preserved and made available for research to
historians and to the administrative institutions of the Faith.
The importance of the institution of Bahá’í Archives is not due only to the many teaching facilities it
procures, but is especially to be found in the vast amount of historical data and information it offers both to
the present-day administrators of the Cause, and to the Bahá’í historians of the future. The institution of
Bahá’í Archives is indeed a most valuable storehouse of information regarding all aspects of the Faith,
administrative as well as doctrinal. Future generations of believers will be surely in a better position than we
are to truly and adequately appreciate the many advantages and facilities which the institution of the Archives
offers to individual believers and also to the community at large.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated September 24, 1936, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Directives from the
Guardian, p. 4
Maintenance of Local Archives
The archives of a Local Spiritual Assembly consist of the official, non-current records of the Spiritual
Assembly, its officers, and appointees. Incorporated Spiritual Assemblies must be especially careful to
preserve both the original articles of incorporation and the minutes of its Annual Meetings, in addition to the
items that all Assemblies must preserve, as detailed elsewhere. The Spiritual Assembly will need to adopt
policies regulating access to records in the archives to ensure that the information is accessible while
protecting confidential records.
Every community should keep a file which records the history of the Faith in the locality and may consider
recording the recollections of older Bahá’ís. The archives may also include such things as relics, personal
papers of believers, community newsletters, photographs, and audio-visual material. If a collection of personal
papers contains books and periodicals, these materials are more appropriate for transfer to the library. At the
discretion of the Assembly, an archivist or archive task force may be appointed. Some communities may also
wish to appoint an historian.
More information about creating or maintaining Bahá’í archives can be obtained from the National Bahá’í
Archives by email to archives@usbnc.org.
See also:
Preparation for Loss of Assembly Status — Ch. 2
Representatives, Task Forces and Other Appointees — Ch. 3
Guidelines for Disposition of Assembly Records — Ch. 4
Electronic Records — Ch. 4
Preservation of Sacred Relics — Ch. 9
Record Retention
Non-current Assembly records transferred to the archives will need to be appraised by the local archivist or
archives task force to determine which records should be kept permanently. Records not having permanent
value can be disposed of, although there may be audit and/or legal reasons for some financial and/or legal
records to be retained for a specific length of time.
Personal status records and minutes referring to them should never be destroyed.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
GUIDELINES FOR DISPOSITION OF ASSEMBLY RECORDS
Records/Information to Be Permanently Retained
•
Annual Reports
•
Birth, marriage, divorce and death registers
•
Child Registration cards for child/youth registrations reported via eMembership2
•
Correspondence initiated by the Local Assembly
•
Correspondence, unique (not a form letter), from:
•
The National Spiritual Assembly and other Bahá'í Institutions
•
Individuals
•
Others
•
Registration cards (signed original) for enrollments reported via eMembership2
•
Financial Records*
•
Annual financial reports
•
Cash journals and check registers
•
Other financial records
•
Local bulletins, newsletters, and calendars
•
Local committee, task force and other appointee reports
•
Membership lists and directories
•
Minutes of Assembly, committee and task force meetings
•
Personal Status case files
•
Photographs of the Spiritual Assembly, Bahá'í community, and community activities
•
Publicity files and scrapbooks
•
Tellers’ reports of Assembly elections reported via eMembership2
•
Surveys (copies) of local information submitted to other institutions
*Some of these records should be kept for five years. For recommended retention
schedules of financial records, see Stewardship and Development.
RECORDS/INFORMATION TO KEEP OR DESTROY AT DISCRETION
•
American Bahá'í newsletter or magazine, The
•
Advertisements, etc.
•
Copies of enrollment and change of address forms, etc.
•
Correspondence, routine, including Feast letters
•
Duplicate annual reports, minutes, bulletins, membership lists, etc.
•
Feast audiotapes from the National Assembly
•
Newsreels from the National Assembly
•
Some financial records, such as paid bills (to confirm which, contact the Office of the Treasurer)
Any item on the “Keep or Destroy” list should be kept if it illustrates or documents an item in Assembly
minutes or is a part of the history of the community. For example, a feature story in the Feast newsreel or an
article in the local newspaper may inspire the community to undertake a community service project; that
particular newsreel or article should be kept as documentation of how the project began.
Items that contain personal information, including copies of enrollment cards, changes of address, duplicate
membership lists and so forth, should be treated as confidential and disposed of by shredding or some other
secure means when disposal is necessary.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
When disposing of outworn or outdated materials containing passages from the Sacred Writings of the Faith,
representations of the Greatest Name, or other items that should be treated with reverence, it is preferable to
utilize a method which is as dignified and respectful as possible, as determined by your Assembly.
See also:
Use of the Greatest Name — Ch. 9
ELECTRONIC RECORDS
Electronic records are difficult to preserve long-term, due to the rapid obsolescence of both computer
software and hardware. Therefore, an official paper copy, for the Assembly files, should be made of all
computer-generated Assembly documents having permanent value, such as minutes, important
correspondence, financial records, annual reports and local bulletins.
Computer files should be backed up on a regular basis including files for all active documents, data files and
emails pertaining to Assembly business.
Assemblies should maintain manual documentation on where and how electronic records are kept, including
software product name and version, as well as any information needed to access them such as user names
and passwords.
See also:
Archives — Ch. 4
LIBRARY
A Local Assembly may have a library for the purpose of providing both the Assembly and the Bahá’í
community access to the Sacred Writings and other library materials.
In addition to a collection of the authoritative texts of the Faith, the library could have collections of
introductory and specialized Bahá’í topics, general reference works, books on other religions and subjects
concerning the issues of present day society. There could be a lending section and a non-circulating
reference/rare book section in the library. Many times, the Bahá'í books and magazines that accompany
donations of personal papers to the community archives can be used to supplement the library’s collection. A
librarian or library task force could be appointed to be in charge of the library.
See also:
Appointments As Needed by Community — Library — Ch. 3
RESOURCE FILES
Local Spiritual Assemblies are encouraged to maintain a file of information on resources available in their
area. These resources may include counseling, support groups, and other services such as interpreters,
legal, medical, welfare, and shelter assistance resources. This information can then be readily provided to
individuals as needed. If the Assembly decides to keep such information as a resource for its community, it
should be updated periodically to ensure that it is current. While Assemblies may offer information on various
resources, responsibility for choosing service providers remains with the individuals and the Assembly should
make it clear that it is not recommending any particular provider.
See also:
Appointments As Needed by Community — Personal Status — Ch. 3
Participation — Interpreters — Ch. 4
Duty to Investigate and Try to Reconcile Couple — Ch. 12
And in Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies, topics listed under “Services and Resources” in the index
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
Counseling Resources
For believers who wish to receive personal, marital, or family counseling, the Assembly may have a list of
counselors whose views are in keeping with the principles of the Faith or it can suggest that the individual
obtain a referral through his or her physician, insurance company, local community health center, professional
associations, licensing boards, self-help organizations or other resources. However, as with the decision to
seek counseling, the final choice of a counselor or a mode of therapy is the individual’s responsibility and the
Assembly should make it clear that it is not recommending any particular provider.
LEGAL ASPECTS OF FUNCTIONING
Broader legal issues related to the organization of the Assembly such as Incorporation and insurance issues
are covered in the chapter on Assembly Organization.
PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS IN CIVIL LAW
In general, the Local Spiritual Assembly should be careful to remind the friends who come before it seeking
advice and spiritual counsel that from the standpoint of Bahá'í principle the Assembly considers all
communications made before it in the course of handling personal matters to be confidential, regardless of
whether they are privileged (a legal term explained in the sections below) in civil law. Following this practice
will foster an atmosphere of trust and openness which is both conducive and necessary to full and frank
consultation leading to a resolution of personal concerns.
Requirements of Privilege
The laws of a majority of states provide that certain confidential communications made between a member of
a religious faith and the clergyperson of that faith are privileged. Privileged, in this context, means that the
clergyperson receiving the communication cannot be compelled to testify as to the content of the
communication in a legal proceeding without the permission of the person who communicated the statements.
In states where this privilege is recognized, the members of Local Spiritual Assemblies (the Local Spiritual
Assembly as a body, an appointed representative or task force of the Assembly, or an individual Assembly
member, if acting in an official capacity) would be included within the definition of the term “clergyperson,” as
that term is used in the statute.
The specific requirements for achieving this status will vary according to the statutes of each state, but in
general, a majority of states require that the statements must comprise the following four elements to qualify
as privileged:
•
The statement must have been made to a “clergyperson” (as defined above) acting in an official
capacity.
•
The statement must have been made in the course of “discipline enjoined” by the religious faith, i.e., it
must be made pursuant to a requirement of the writings, customs, and practices of that religious faith.
•
The statement must have been intended to be confidential in nature and, thus, not intended to be
repeated to others outside of the Local Spiritual Assembly.
•
Many courts also require that the statement be penitential in character but, since the Bahá’í writings
admonish against confessing one’s sins to a clergy person to seek absolution, in states where this
requirement exists the Bahá’ís asserting the privilege would have to argue through their attorneys for
an exemption from this requirement.
It is important to note that from a legal standpoint not all communications by Bahá’ís to their Spiritual
Assemblies are considered legally privileged and, furthermore, not all confidential statements are accorded
the status of privileged communications. Assemblies are encouraged to investigate the details of “privilege' in
their state.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
Regarding the subject of privilege attached to documents, minutes, books and records, again, the specific
requirements of state law would have to be applied to each individual situation to determine whether such
materials would fall within the requirements of privilege.
To Preserve Privilege Confidential Statements Must Not Be Overheard
For the Assembly to preserve its right of privileged communications, it is important for it to understand the
difference between confidentiality as a general principle and its legal application in privileged
communications.
One of the most important of the requirements in establishing legal privilege is that communications must be
confidential. Civil law has a narrower view than the Bahá'í Faith of what is meant by confidentiality and insists
that, for privilege in communications to apply, it means no one must be present other than the clergy and the
sole person seeking guidance. For this and other reasons, meetings held in homes or facilities where other
non-Assembly members or representatives may be present should be arranged so that non-members
(including children) are not able to overhear any part of the consultation.
When marital counseling is involved, state laws differ and the facts and circumstances vary concerning
whether or not the privilege is extended to the couple meeting together with the clergy. Thus, in marital
situations where the Assembly or its representatives wish to counsel couples together, it will need to approach
the matter based upon knowledge of the laws in its state and the facts in the matter:
In states that apply the narrower definition restricting privilege solely to the clergy and an individual party, the
Assembly or its representatives should either meet with the parties separately or ask each of them to sign an
agreement not to compel anyone present at the meeting to testify or divulge anything discussed in the
meeting in any legal proceeding. If an Assembly in one of these states has received a request for the
establishment of a year of waiting, meetings with the parties must take place separately to preserve the
Assembly’s right of privileged communications. If the Assembly meets with the couple in each other's
presence then the communications may not be confidential, and accordingly, may not be privileged.
In other states, the legal definition of privileged communications is expanded to permit clergy to meet with a
couple in each other's presence when they are seeking marital guidance. In those states, a written agreement
not to compel testimony would not be necessary for legal purposes but may still be considered a good
practice to impress upon the couple the expectation that their communications with the Assembly are
considered privileged and confidential and not subject to use in any legal matter.
For further clarification or other concerns about privileged communications, contact the National Spiritual
Assembly’s legal office at legal@usbnc.org or (847) 733-3576.
See also:
Location — Ch. 4
Participation — Attendance by Non-Assembly Members — Ch. 4
Consultation with Others — Ch. 4
Correspondence — Requests by Individuals for Copies of Assembly Correspondence — Ch. 4
Initial Meeting When Party(ies) Seek Year of Waiting — Ch. 12
If Assembly Receives Subpoena
The most common way in which a question of privileged communications will arise is when a member of an
Assembly, usually the Secretary, is served either by mail or in person with a subpoena. A subpoena is a court
order summoning a witness to appear at a certain place and time and give testimony on any information
he/she may have about a certain matter. The subpoena may also order the witness to bring any documents,
books, and records related to the matter in question. If an Assembly member or Assembly representative
receives such a subpoena, he or she should immediately contact the National Spiritual Assembly for further
guidance. While it will be necessary to comply with the subpoena, the Assembly will, in all likelihood, be
advised to seek representation of an attorney to file a motion to quash (void) the subpoena.
To quash the subpoena, the Assembly’s attorney usually must prepare a memorandum of law to attach to a
motion to vacate and appear in court with the subpoenaed Assembly members to argue the motion. This all
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
requires legal time and legal fees unless the Assembly is fortunate to find a local Baha'i lawyer who is willing
to provide pro bono assistance.
It is important to contact the National Assembly immediately upon being served because a subpoena requires
an answer within a specific number of days. Failure to comply with a subpoena constitutes a violation of a
court order and can carry sanctions. When possible, Assemblies should try to avoid the likelihood of being
subpoenaed by having prior signed agreements not to compel testimony.
See also:
Consultation with Others — Believers Enjoined to Cooperate with Assembly — Ch. 4
Communications — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Confidential Materials — Ch. 4
Agreement Not to Compel Testimony
Local Assemblies are advised to ask any parties wishing to consult with the Assembly about any matter
involving a dispute or a divorce to agree in writing not to compel the Assembly, any individual member, its
representatives or appointees acting on behalf of the Assembly to testify or produce records in any legal
proceeding regarding the matter.
In areas where the Assembly is being consulted for advice on matters such as a business dispute between
two Bahá'ís or a property dispute of some kind, privileged status may not apply. Privilege attaches not solely
because it involves communication with clergy but, for Bahá'ís, because it touches on matters of seeking
advice on application of Baha'i law to one's behavior.
The Assembly should make clear to all parties that the purpose of meeting, listening and consulting with them
is to provide guidance on Bahá'í laws and principles and assist them to resolve their differences. However, if
efforts prove unsuccessful, they should not ask the Assembly to become involved in any legal proceeding
regarding the matter such as giving testimony, producing records, answering interrogatories, appearing at
depositions or making court appearances. In order to make sure that is clearly understood, Assemblies are
advised to ask each party to sign an agreement to that effect. The Assembly should have one completely
signed original and each party should have his or her own completely signed original.
Having an explicit signed agreement by the parties is an effective way to communicate to them that
consultation with the Assembly is for purely religious guidance purposes and is not to be used for any legal
matter. If they later chose to ignore the agreement and the Assembly is subpoenaed, it would be able to argue
its case with less legal time and expense. Usually simply notifying opposing counsel of the agreement is
enough to have the subpoena withdrawn voluntarily. Otherwise, the Assembly’s attorney would need to
present the agreement to the court and ask that it be enforced.
See also:
Participation — Attendance by Non-Assembly Members — Ch. 4
Initial Meeting When Party(ies) Seek Year of Waiting — Ch. 12
Disputes — Ch. 14
Protect Privileged Status
Even though a signed agreement (see preceding section) is most helpful and usually all that is needed,
Assemblies are still cautioned to meet with parties separately so that the privileged communication status
remains intact, if for any reason the signed agreement is not held enforceable by a court of law.
Member May Be Liable for Breach of Confidentiality
It should also be pointed out that if an Assembly member divulges confidential information to another person
outside the Assembly or seeks to testify about statements received in an official capacity without the
permission of the person making those statements, that Assembly member may be held legally responsible
for his or her actions and may possibly jeopardize the privileged status of the Assembly.
See also:
Member Confidentiality Agreement — Ch. 3
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 4 – Functioning of the Local Assembly
Communications — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Confidentiality and Criminal Law
Since, at the present time, Bahá’í institutions are not authorized to deal with criminal matters — as the state
claims an exclusive interest in them and has clearly laid down procedures to be followed — such matters
must be referred to the civil authorities. The advice of legal experts should be sought in reconciling the
observance of confidentiality and the Assembly’s obligation to uphold government regulations in criminal
cases.
See also:
Consultation with Others — Ch. 4
Criminal Offenses — Ch. 10
Disruptive Behaviors — Ch. 14
And in Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies, topics indexed under civil authorities, civil laws, crimes
THREAT OF LEGAL ACTION
Before responding to any legal document, such as a subpoena, an Assembly should contact the National
Spiritual Assembly for guidance on how to respond.
LEGAL ACTION BY ASSEMBLY
If a Local Assembly is anticipating that a matter may require legal action on its part, it should contact the
National Spiritual Assembly for guidance about the matter before initiating any action.
Revised April 2016

5. COMMUNITY MEMBERSHIP .......................................................................................................................................4
DEFINITION OF MEMBERSHIP ..................................................................................................................................4
DECLARATION OF FAITH AND ENROLLMENT ........................................................................................................4
SUMMARY OF ENROLLMENT PROCESS .............................................................................................................4
Five Steps to Enrollment ......................................................................................................................................4
The Seeker Response System .............................................................................................................................4
Exception Populations ......................................................................................................................................5
DETAILS OF ENROLLMENT PROCESS .................................................................................................................5
Step 1 – Declaration .............................................................................................................................................5
Step 2 – Recording Declaration ............................................................................................................................5
Exceptions to Need for Signature .....................................................................................................................6
Steps 3 and 4 – Acceptance of Declaration/Registration .....................................................................................6
Confirmation of Belief .......................................................................................................................................6
Representatives Authorized to Countersign Registrations ...............................................................................7
Postponement of Acceptance ...........................................................................................................................8
Assembly Responsibilities in Processing a Registration ..................................................................................8
When Assembly Has Reservations about Enrollment ..................................................................................8
Step 5 – Approving and Recording an Enrollment ...............................................................................................9
When Enrollment Is Denied ..............................................................................................................................9
SPECIAL ENROLLMENT PROCEDURES ...............................................................................................................9
Citizens of the People’s Republic of China ...........................................................................................................9
Israelis ..................................................................................................................................................................9
OTHER ENROLLMENT CONSIDERATIONS ....................................................................................................... 10
Persons with Mental Disorders or Handicaps ................................................................................................... 10
Persons Whose Behavior Is Contrary to Bahá’í Law ........................................................................................ 10
Cohabitation ................................................................................................................................................... 11
Homosexuality ................................................................................................................................................ 11
Membership in Secret Organizations, Other Religions, or Political Involvement .......................................... 12
Prisoners ....................................................................................................................................................... 13
DECLARATION AND ENROLLMENT OR REGISTRATION OF CHILDREN AND YOUTH ................................. 13
Children of Non-Bahá’í Parents ......................................................................................................................... 13
Under 15 Years Old ....................................................................................................................................... 13
15 to 21 Years Old ......................................................................................................................................... 14
Children of Bahá’í Parents ................................................................................................................................. 14
Bahá'í Parents Responsible for Registration of Children .............................................................................. 15
Discretion Needed When One Parent Is Not Bahá'í ..................................................................................... 15
Reaching the Age of Maturity ............................................................................................................................ 16
Administrative Handling of Transition to Maturity .............................................................................................. 16
Policy to Contact Registered Youth Shortly Before Age Fifteen .................................................................... 16
Youth Acceptance of Membership Card Constitutes Affirmation of Belief ................................................. 16
When a Youth Is Uncertain or Declines to Accept Membership Card ....................................................... 16
STATUS OF MEMBERSHIP ...................................................................................................................................... 17
FULL ADMINISTRATIVE RIGHTS ......................................................................................................................... 17
DEPRIVATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE RIGHTS ................................................................................................... 17
Limited Administrative Rights ............................................................................................................................ 17
BAHÁ’Í CREDENTIALS ............................................................................................................................................ 18
CHECKING CREDENTIALS .................................................................................................................................. 18
Local Assemblies Are Not to Provide Credentials ............................................................................................. 18
CREDENTIALS OF BAHÁ'ÍS FROM OTHER COUNTRIES ................................................................................. 18
When a Foreign Visitor Arrives without Credentials .......................................................................................... 18
Visitors from Iran without Credentials ................................................................................................................ 19
CREDENTIALS FOR AMERICAN BAHÁ'ÍS PLANNING TO TRAVEL ABROAD .................................................. 19
ALL AMERICAN BAHÁ'ÍS RETURNING FROM EXTENDED STAY ABROAD ..................................................... 20
REGISTER OF VITAL STATISTICS .......................................................................................................................... 20
NATIONAL MEMBERSHIP DATABASE ................................................................................................................... 21
USES OF BAHÁ’Í MEMBERSHIP DATA ............................................................................................................... 21
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Community Membership Directories .......................................................................................... 21
Community Lists and Data Are Not To Be Used for Business Purposes ...................................................... 21
Guidelines for Sharing Community Data with Institutions ................................................................................. 21
Bahá’í Directories and Membership Data Are Confidential ........................................................................... 21
Sharing Membership Statistics with the Regional or Cluster-Level Statistics Officer ................................... 22
WAYS AND MEANS TO VIEW AND UPDATE DATA ............................................................................................ 23
National Bahá’í Community Website ................................................................................................................. 23
eMembership2 ............................................................................................................................................... 23
Letter or Phone Contact ................................................................................................................................ 24
Community Membership List from National Center ........................................................................................... 24
Obsolete Membership Lists Should Be Destroyed ........................................................................................ 24
My Page Access through american.bahai.us .................................................................................................... 24
Specialized Report Forms ................................................................................................................................. 24
GUIDELINES FOR UNDERSTANDING AND UPDATING MEMBERSHIP DATA ................................................. 25
Adding Bahá'ís Who Move In ............................................................................................................................ 25
Changing Inaccurate Bahá'í Locality Designation for Individual ....................................................................... 25
Determining if a Believer is Limited or Deprived of Rights, Institutionalized, or Imprisoned ............................. 25
Entering Adult and Child Registrations .............................................................................................................. 25
Entering New or Revised Personal Contact Information ................................................................................... 26
Registering Name Changes .............................................................................................................................. 26
Reporting Marriages .......................................................................................................................................... 26
Reporting or Verifying a Death .......................................................................................................................... 26
Request for Withdrawal of Bahá'í Membership ................................................................................................. 27
Reporting Assembly Member/Officer or Group Officer Changes ...................................................................... 27
Transfers Into and Out of the Country ............................................................................................................... 27
Verifying Mail Returns ........................................................................................................................................ 27
Suggestions for Handling Returned Mail ....................................................................................................... 28
Where to Search for a Correct Address .................................................................................................... 28
When an Address Is Found ....................................................................................................................... 28
When an Address Cannot Be Found ......................................................................................................... 29
INTERNATIONAL MEMBERSHIP TRANSFERS ..................................................................................................... 29
TRANSFER INTO THE UNITED STATES ............................................................................................................. 29
Policies on Administrative Participation during Transfer of Membership ........................................................... 30
When Transfer Is Complete ............................................................................................................................... 30
Transfer of Persian Bahá'ís ............................................................................................................................... 30
Persian Bahá'ís with Current Credentials ...................................................................................................... 31
Travel to Iran after Current Credentials Were Issued ............................................................................... 31
Persians Who Were Formerly Members of American Bahá'í Community ..................................................... 31
Persians Who Have Never Been Members of American Bahá'í Community ................................................ 31
Persian Bahá'ís Whose Credentials Have Not Yet Been Verified ................................................................. 31
TRANSFER OUT OF THE UNITED STATES ........................................................................................................ 31
WITHDRAWAL FROM AND REINSTATEMENT OF MEMBERSHIP ....................................................................... 32
MEANING OF WITHDRAWAL ............................................................................................................................... 32
CRITERIA FOR WITHDRAWAL ............................................................................................................................ 32
When Individuals Accept Only Portions of the Teachings ................................................................................. 33
When Inactivity is Not a Basis for Removal from Membership ......................................................................... 33
When Inactivity Indicates Complete Lack of Interest in the Faith ...................................................................... 33
Withdrawing to Avoid Bahá’í Law ...................................................................................................................... 34
HANDLING REQUESTS FOR WITHDRAWAL ..................................................................................................... 34
Response of Local Assembly to Request for Withdrawal .................................................................................. 35
Third party Requests for Withdrawal ................................................................................................................. 35
Withdrawal of a Member of a Local Assembly .................................................................................................. 35
Request Not to Participate Should Be Honored ................................................................................................ 35
Reporting a Recommendation for Withdrawal ................................................................................................... 36
Reinstatement of Bahá’í Membership ............................................................................................................... 36
APPENDIX: NATIONAL OFFICE OF MEMBERSHIP AND RECORDS INFORMATION ........................................ 37
PRIVACY POLICIES .............................................................................................................................................. 37
Revised April 2016

Disclosure of Personal Information .................................................................................................................... 37
Mail Forwarding ................................................................................................................................................. 37
CONTACTS AND SUPPLIES ................................................................................................................................ 37
Administrative Changes ..................................................................................................................................... 38
Local Assembly and Registered Bahá’í Group Formations and Changes ........................................................ 38
Label and Membership List Production Desk (IT Reports) ................................................................................ 39
Support Desk ..................................................................................................................................................... 39
Transfer Desk .................................................................................................................................................... 39
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
5. COMMUNITY MEMBERSHIP
DEFINITION OF MEMBERSHIP
The process of becoming a Bahá’í is necessarily slow and gradual. The essential is not that the beginner
should have a full and detailed knowledge of the Cause, a thing which is obviously impossible in the vast
majority of cases, but that he should by an act of his own will, be willing to uphold and follow the truth and
guidance set forth in the Teachings, and thus open his heart and mind to the reality of the Manifestation.
Shoghi Effendi, Directives from the Guardian, p. 8
Bahá'ís are enjoined to reach out and engage all humanity in new patterns of community life brought about by
the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh. Seekers and new believers that Bahá’ís encounter will represent a wide range
of situations: some will have an extensive knowledge of the Faith, others will not, some will know many
Bahá’ís, some may have not yet met a Bahá’í, some will have been connected with the community through
direct teaching efforts, some may have declared their belief in the Bahá'í Faith online. Regardless of their
particular path to the Faith, the process to enroll them in the Faith is the same for all individuals (with the
specific exceptions noted below). Local Spiritual Assemblies, in collaboration with the cluster entities (the Area
Teaching Committee, Cluster Development Facilitator, Cluster Institute Coordinator, or Auxiliary Board
member), are called on to develop a well-ordered pattern of consolidation for the new believers who reside in
their jurisdiction.
See also:
Summary of Enrollment Process — Ch. 5
DECLARATION OF FAITH AND ENROLLMENT
SUMMARY OF ENROLLMENT PROCESS
Five Steps to Enrollment
Generally, the enrollment of a new believer in the United States involves the following procedure, whether a
declaration was registered online, or through traditional methods:
1.
Declaration of faith by the new believer privately, publicly, or through registration online
2.
Signing of a Bahá'í Registration card or form downloaded from the national Bahá’í community
website, american.bahai.us, or registering a declaration online at www.bahai.us
3.
Confirmation of the declarant's belief
4.
Counter-signing by an agency or representative authorized to do so, either on a Card or electronically
5.
Approval and recording of the enrollment by the Local Spiritual Assembly or National Assembly
through its Office of Membership and Records (this step can be performed by entry of the
Registration through eMembership2, after the confirmation has been completed).
The Seeker Response System
Seekers around the country who wish to learn about the Bahá’í Faith, become involved in the local Bahá’í
community, and/or declare their belief in Bahá’u’lláh, can do so by calling (800) 22-UNITE, or by visiting
www.bahai.us. The Seeker Response System (SRS) database has been expanded to assist with follow up of
the seekers and new online registrants at the regional and cluster levels. The network of representatives who
respond to seeker inquiries includes regional-level contacts, cluster-level agencies, or local Bahá'ís who have
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
completed the relevant Training Institute courses and can engage seekers and new declarants in an open and
spiritual conversation. The regional contact or the cluster agencies (the Area Teaching Committee or Institute
Coordinator) will deploy human resources to nurture these individuals through home visits and invitations to
join core activities.
Local Assemblies are encouraged to mobilize resources to aid in the follow-up work, in collaboration with this
network. For additional information on the response network in your cluster, contact your Regional Bahá’í
Council or the National Teaching Office at nto@usbnc.org.
Exception Populations
There are special considerations regarding enrollment of individuals of certain populations. These populations
include:
•
Citizens of the People’s Republic of China
•
Israelis
Other special populations:
•
Individuals with severely disabling mental illness or mental handicaps
•
Prisoners
The initial steps of the enrollment process are the same as with any other registration (i.e., an Assembly can
countersign a declaration and enter the new believer’s data into eMembership2 without delay), but some
additional procedures may be required by the Office of Membership and Records to complete the enrollment.
It should be noted that until an enrollment is completed and recognized, the individual does not possess
administrative rights (rights to attend Nineteen Day Feasts, vote and be voted for in Bahá’í elections,
participate in activities reserved for enrolled members in good standing, contribute to the Fund, receive
publications intended for Bahá’ís only, be appointed to service by the institutions of the Faith, represent the
Faith officially as teachers or speakers, be married in the Faith, go on pilgrimage, receive credentials
confirming their good standing, or enjoy the blessings of full participation in the Bahá'í community).
See also:
Special Enrollment Procedures — Ch. 5
Other Enrollment Considerations — Ch. 5
DETAILS OF ENROLLMENT PROCESS
Step 1 – Declaration
The prime motive should always be the response of man to God’s Message, and the recognition of His
Messenger. Those who declare themselves as Bahá'ís should become enchanted with the beauty of the
Teachings, and touched by the love of Bahá'u'lláh. The declarants need not know all the proofs, history, laws,
and principles of the Faith, but in the process of declaring themselves they must, in addition to catching the
spark of faith, become basically informed about the Central Figures of the Faith, as well as the existence of
laws they must follow and an administration they must obey.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 13, 1964, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 18.4
Step 2 – Recording Declaration
You have asked if the mere declaration of faith by a newcomer suffices to recognize him as a Bahá'í, and
whether living the Bahá'í life should not be regarded as the basis of admission into the Faith. You should bear
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
in mind that the signature on a card, in the sense that it represents a record of the date of the declaration and
data about the declarant, is to satisfy administrative requirements enabling the enrollment of the new believer
in the community. The deeper implications of the act of declaration of faith are between the individual and
God.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 7, 1974, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 264
Once a person residing in the United States has made a declaration of belief in Bahá’u’lláh, using either a
Bahá'í Registration card or online registration (www.bahai.us), the person should provide his or her name,
physical/mailing address, gender, birth date, and country of birth, so that the individual can be added to the
membership rolls and receive mailings. Additional information collected that assists in the consolidation
process includes the person's race/ethnicity, language preference, phone numbers and email address. For
declarations registered online, clicking on the “Submit” button denotes the individual's signature and,
therefore, a paper registration card or form is not required.
Exceptions to Need for Signature
There may be occasions when the candidate for enrollment does not wish to complete or sign the registration
card. If the Local Spiritual Assembly or other authorized representative is satisfied that the person sincerely
believes in Bahá’u’lláh, it should send the unsigned Bahá'í Registration card to the National Spiritual
Assembly, explaining the circumstances and providing the necessary information — as stated above.
See also:
Special Enrollment Procedures — Citizens of the People’s Republic of China — Ch. 5
Steps 3 and 4 – Acceptance of Declaration/Registration
Confirmation of Belief
If we make the requirements too rigorous, we will cool off the initial enthusiasm, rebuff the hearts and cease
to expand rapidly. The essential thing is that the candidate for enrollment should believe in his heart in the
truth of Bahá'u'lláh. Whether he is literate or illiterate, informed of all the Teachings or not, is beside the point
entirely. When the spark of faith exists the essential Message is there, and gradually everything else can be
added unto it.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 9, 1957, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 243
As you are aware, the beloved Guardian encouraged early enrollment of new believers upon their
declarations, and not the creation of obstacles to their acceptance. After declaration, follow-up with deepening
is imperative, and it may be that some will fall away. However, those who remain are the true fruits of the
teaching endeavor and may include persons of great merit who might have been lost to the Cause through
arbitrary early judgments.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated to November 18, 1980, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 2027
Naturally, when considering the possible enrolment of a refugee or asylum seeker from a place where it is
unsafe to be a Bahá’í, caution is necessary. It is important that would-be declarants appreciate the implications
of their taking such a step, giving thought to how family members will react and the difficulties that may arise
if one day they return to their homeland. … Clearly, current circumstances require that, when gauging a
seeker’s purity of motive, you assess the cases of asylum seekers from certain countries with a rigour you
would not apply to those of seekers from elsewhere; nevertheless, you should guard against there being too
great a disparity between the ways in which the motive of each is considered. Of course, your approach in this
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
area should be implemented in a spirit of learning, thereby allowing, over time, for a rise in your capacity to
evaluate, with sensitivity and wisdom, each unique situation.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated November 17, 2009, to all National Spiritual Assemblies
Confirming a new declarant's belief is an important part of the enrollment process. It should not be a rigorous
or lengthy procedure, but should ensure that the individual is sincere in his or her declaration of faith.
Reviewing with the declarant a basic overview of the fundamental verities of the Faith is, in most cases,
sufficient to ascertain this.
When confirming the sincerity of an individual's motive in becoming a Bahá’í, it is helpful to consider several
factors that may be illustrative of “the degree to which he or she outwardly manifests the inner reality of
belief”, including, but not limited to, his or her personal conduct, continued interest over time, participation in
the activities of the life of the community and the core activities of the current Plan, and perhaps most telling,
the participation of his or her children in age-appropriate Bahá’í education classes.
Such confirmation can be carried out by any individual that the countersigning agency (see below) trusts to
perform this service. As growth accelerates, close collaboration with the cluster's core team, particularly the
Area Teaching Committee, is crucial.
See also:
Special Enrollment Procedures — Ch. 5
Handling Requests for Withdrawal — Reinstatement of Bahá'í Membership — Ch. 5
Representatives Authorized to Countersign Registrations
When a representative who is authorized to countersign registration cards is satisfied that the individual's
belief has been confirmed, he or she may countersign the card and send it to the Local Spiritual Assembly
where the declarant lives to be entered into eMembership2. If the declarant does not live in a locality with a
Local Spiritual Assembly, the card may be processed by any Local Spiritual Assembly in their cluster or sent
to the Office of Membership and Records at the Bahá'í National Center to be directly entered into the National
Database. This should be done as soon as possible. Those authorized to countersign registrations are:
•
Continental Counselors
•
National Spiritual Assembly (or its representatives appointed to countersign registrations)
•
Auxiliary Board members or their assistants
•
Regional Bahá'í Councils (or their representatives appointed to countersign registrations)
•
National Teaching Office
•
Local Spiritual Assemblies (or their representatives appointed to countersign registrations)
•
Administrators of permanent Bahá'í schools and institutes
•
Regional Training Institutes and Regional Bahá'í School Boards or Committees
•
Members of Area Teaching Committees, Cluster Institute Coordinators and Cluster Development
Facilitators
In the case of declarations registered online, the countersigning is carried out electronically through
eMembership2, from the Pending Members queue. If the Assembly countersigns a card for a new believer
who does not reside in its community it should inform the Assembly where the believer lives and send a copy
of the registration card, as a courtesy. If the registration card is countersigned by a representative other than
the Local Spiritual Assembly where the new believer lives, the counter-signer will want to send a notice of the
enrollment to that body so that the Assembly is made aware of all new believers in its jurisdiction. If there is
no Assembly in that locality the following should be informed, as applicable: registered Bahá'í group, Area
Teaching Committee, or Auxiliary Board member.
See also:
Details of Enrollment Process — Assembly Responsibilities in Processing a Registration — Ch. 5
Ways and Means to View and Update Data — eMembership2 — Ch. 5
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
Postponement of Acceptance
There may be occasions when an enrollment must be postponed, as in the case of someone holding a political
post, unless that person is able and can, in good conscience, resign from such a post immediately. Other cases
may permit acceptance but indicate a need for fixing a time when the individual will be required to conform
to certain laws, such as membership in the Masonic Order, church, or other ecclesiastical organizations. Still
other times an individual may be encouraged to become better acquainted with the spirit, laws, and principles
of the Faith before submitting his application. However, the Guardian has cautioned us not to be too rigid in
our requirements for accepting new believers or to place hindrances in their way. The question of conforming
one's character and the pattern of one's life to the standards of conduct upheld in the Bahá'í way of life is a
matter which should be inculcated in the new believer in the course of his spiritual education and deepening.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 13, 1979, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 254
See also:
Other Enrollment Considerations — Persons Whose Behavior Is Contrary to Bahá'í Law — Ch. 5
Assembly Responsibilities in Processing a Registration
Once a declaration of faith has been confirmed, the Local Assembly should process the record as soon as
possible. The Local Assembly should log into eMembership2 to record the enrollment and retain the original
signed and counter-signed card in its permanent records. Declarations registered online are forwarded to the
Pending Members queue of eMembership2 and are processed electronically. Enrollments that are submitted
electronically are automatically recognized unless the declarant is of a “special consideration” population,
(addressed in another section). An Assembly can enroll a new believer who does not live within its jurisdiction
if there is no Assembly in the believer’s jurisdiction and the believer resides within the Assembly’s cluster.
If the Assembly does not have internet access, it should mail the original signed and counter-signed Bahá'í
Registration card to the Office of Membership and Records, after making a photocopy for its permanent
records.
Once the enrollment has been approved and recognized, the new believer may then attend Bahá’í functions,
vote, and be elected to administrative bodies. If an event is held that requires a Bahá’í identification card, the
local community may endorse the new Bahá’í until the believer receives his or her Bahá'í identification card,
which is generated at the National Center. This takes approximately two weeks.
For additional details on declarations registered online or through the Seeker Response System (SRS),
contact the National Teaching Office (nto@usbnc.org) or your Regional Bahá’í Council. Additional information
about eMembership2 is available under Bahá’í Online Services on the front page of the national Bahá’í
community website. If further assistance is needed with eMembership2, the Admin Tools Help Desk can be
contacted toll-free at, (866) 818-5724, or by email, admintoolshelp@usbnc.org.
See also:
Summary of Enrollment Process — Ch. 5
Special Enrollment Procedures — Ch. 5
Guidelines for Understanding and Updating Membership Data — Entering Adult and Child Registrations — Ch. 5
When Assembly Has Reservations about Enrollment
If the Local Assembly has significant concerns or recommends denying the enrollment, it should send a report
to the National Spiritual Assembly, attaching copies of all documents associated with the application for
enrollment, as well as the original, completed Bahá'í Registration card. The Assembly should keep a
photocopy of the card in its permanent records. The National Assembly will decide if the enrollment can be
accepted.
See also:
Details of Enrollment Process — When Enrollment Is Denied — Ch. 5
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
Step 5 – Approving and Recording an Enrollment
The National Center and Local Assemblies are the only countersigning entities able to enter new believers
electronically. Via eMembership2, Local Assemblies can countersign for new believers within their localities or
other localities within their clusters that do not have Assemblies. Registration cards request the name,
physical and mailing address, telephone number, date of birth, country of birth, and the gender of the new
believer. If a believer has signed an older registration (declaration) card, this detailed information should be
recorded on the backside of the card.
Local Spiritual Assemblies without internet access should contact the Office of Membership and Records at
the Bahá'í National Center. Once an enrollment is recorded in the National Database, a membership card, a
welcome letter from the National Spiritual Assembly, and basic information about the Faith and the American
Bahá'í community are then sent to the new believer.
“Exception” populations may require other procedures for processing enrollments.
See also:
Summary of Enrollment Process — Exception Populations — Ch. 5
Details of Enrollment Process — Exceptions To Need for Signature — Ch. 5
Special Enrollment Procedures — Ch. 5
Other Enrollment Considerations — Ch. 5
Ways and Means to View and Update Data — eMembership2 — Ch. 5
When Enrollment Is Denied
If an enrollment is denied, or if the National Spiritual Assembly feels that further information is needed before
making a decision, the Local Spiritual Assembly or another authorized representative will be notified. It is the
responsibility of this representative to inform the person seeking enrollment of his/her status and, if applicable,
collect any desired information.
When enrollment of a person cannot be accomplished for some reason, he or she should be encouraged to
foster his or her love for Bahá'u'lláh in their heart and, if possible, participate in Bahá'í activities open to the
public until the obstacles preventing enrollment can be removed.
SPECIAL ENROLLMENT PROCEDURES
Citizens of the People’s Republic of China
The National Spiritual Assembly's Secretariat should be contacted for guidance on citizens of the People's
Republic of China who wish to become Bahá'ís.
Israelis
Whenever an Israeli citizen living in the West, irrespective of his background and religious affiliation,
declares his belief and interest in becoming a member of the Bahá’í community, he should be informed that
the Faith is not taught in Israel and that there is no Bahá’í community there apart from those who are
associated with the Bahá’í World Center. He cannot be accepted into the Bahá’í community if he is planning
to return to Israel to reside there.
If he plans to continue to reside outside Israel, his enrollment can be accepted, but he will then be subject to
the same restrictions about travel to Israel as any other Bahá’í, in that he could do so only with the express
permission of the Universal House of Justice. In any event, the Universal House of Justice should be informed
of any such declaration.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated October 20, 1994, to several National Spiritual Assemblies.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
OTHER ENROLLMENT CONSIDERATIONS
Persons with Mental Disorders or Handicaps
The question of mental instability has no bearing upon the acceptance of an enrollment unless it is of such a
nature that it affects the ability of the declarant to judge whether or not he believes in Bahá’u’lláh.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 19, 1981, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 259
Concerning the acceptance into the Faith of individuals who have mental problems ... the House of Justice
instructs us to say that if the Assembly is satisfied that the person is sufficiently in command of his faculties to
understand what his declaration of faith implies, he may be accepted as a believer. In other words you should
apply the normal guidelines of acceptance of new believers. In such cases, however, you may have to ensure
that special steps are taken to deepen the understanding of the new Bahá’í.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 12, 1982, to a National Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 260
Regarding the interpretation of mental unfitness, this is not the same as being physically incapacitated. By
the latter is meant a condition much more serious than any temperamental deficiency or disinclination to
conform to the principle of majority rule. Only in rare cases when a person is actually unbalanced, and is
admittedly proved to be so, should the right of membership be denied him. The greatest care and restraint
should be exercised in this matter.
Letter written on behalf of the Shoghi Effendi, dated May 15, 1940, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 194
[C]oncerning your intended policy for the enrollment of persons of limited mental capacity. In cases such as
the one you describe, where the Bahá'í parents of an adult child of limited mental capacity wish for their child
to be enrolled as a member of the Bahá'í community, you may regard that child as a Bahá'í. The House of
Justice understands that, ordinarily, with regard to Bahá'í children who have reached the age of 15, your
procedure is to automatically welcome them as enrolled Bahá'ís unless they state otherwise.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 13, 2005, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Details of Enrollment Process — When Assembly Has Reservations about Enrollment — Ch. 5
Medical Matters — Mental and/or Emotional Impairment — Ch. 14
Persons Whose Behavior Is Contrary to Bahá’í Law
In the case of people who accept the Faith while living in a situation which is not morally acceptable, or
while being a member of an organization to which it is not permissible for a Bahá'í to belong, the normal
procedure is for the Assembly to accept the declaration of faith so that the new believer may become a
member of the Bahá'í community and his newly-born belief in Bahá'u'lláh can be nurtured, and at the same
time for the Assembly to explain that his situation is one that he must change within a reasonable time. If the
believer does not rectify his situation as a result of the Assembly's exhortations and assistance, and following
due warnings when the time limit expires the Assembly would have to consider depriving him of his
administrative rights. It may well be, however, that in a particular case, it is preferable to explain the matter to
the individual concerned and advise the postponement of the registration of his acceptance of the Faith until
such time as he has been able to rectify his situation.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 18, 1985, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 261
The doors are open for all of humanity to enter the Bahá’í community, irrespective of their present
circumstance. Associated with this invitation is the expectation that all those who accept Bahá’u’lláh as a
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
Manifestation of God will make a sincere and persistent effort to modify those aspects of their conduct which
are not in conformity with His Law. Spiritual Assemblies should, to a certain extent, be forbearing in the
matter of people’s moral conduct, in view of the terrible deterioration of society in general. It would be a
profound contradiction, however, for someone to profess the intention to be a Bahá’í, yet consciously reject,
disregard or contend with aspects of belief or practice ordained by Bahá’u’lláh. It would only be reasonable,
therefore, for a Local Assembly to request that a person with such views wait until this contradiction is
resolved before enrolling in the Bahá’í community.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 20, 2009, to a Local Spiritual Assembly
Allegiance to the Faith cannot be partial and half-hearted. Either we should accept the Cause without any
qualification whatsoever or cease calling ourselves Bahá'ís. The new believers should be made to realize that
it is not sufficient for them to accept some aspects of the teachings and reject those which cannot suit their
mentality in order to become fully recognized and active followers of the Faith. In this way all sorts of
misunderstandings will vanish and the organic unity of the Cause will be preserved.
Shoghi Effendi, Directives from the Guardian, p. 11
The acceptance of a person into the Bahá’í community should be based not on whether he is leading an
exemplary life, but on whether the Assembly is reasonably certain that he is sincere in his declaration of faith
in Bahá’u’lláh and that he knows of the laws which would affect his personal conduct, so that he does not
enter the community under a misapprehension.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 19, 1981, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 259
When recommending the enrollment of new declarants, a Local Spiritual Assembly should take care to
distinguish those who, while their behavior is not in keeping with the laws of the Faith, do wholeheartedly
believe in Bahá'u'lláh and accept that they will have to struggle to align their behavior with their beliefs, from
those declarants who accept only a portion of the teachings and reserve the right to disagree on one or more
principles and obey or disobey as they see fit. The latter cannot truly be considered Bahá'ís and their
enrollments should be postponed until they feel that they can accept the Revelation in its entirety.
See also:
Details of Enrollment Process — Postponement of Acceptance — Ch. 5
Details of Enrollment Process — When Assembly Has Reservations about Enrollment — Ch. 5
Irresponsible Behavior — Ch. 10
Cohabitation
The young lady in question should be advised by you or the believer with whom she has been studying that
the decision as to whether or not she wishes to enroll in the Faith rests with her and her alone. Your Assembly
should not prevent her from enrolling should she so decide, but if she does apply for membership in the
community, she obviously should understand that she will be expected to conduct herself as a Bahá’í by
adjusting her relationship to the man with whom she is presently living. This means that either they must
become legally married or she should sever the existing relationship between them.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 4, 1977, to a Local Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 253
See also:
Sexual Immorality — Cohabitation — Ch. 10
Homosexuality
When a person wishes to join the Faith and it is generally known that he or she has a problem such as
drinking, homosexuality, taking drugs, adultery, etc., the individual should be told in a patient and loving way
of the Bahá’í Teachings on these matters. If it is later discovered that a believer is violating Bahá’í standards,
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
it is the duty of the Spiritual Assembly to determine whether the immoral conduct is flagrant and can bring the
name of the Faith into disrepute, in which case the Assembly must take action to counsel the believer and
require him or her to make every effort to mend his ways.
If the individual fails to rectify his conduct in spite of repeated warnings, sanctions should be imposed.
Assemblies, of course, must exercise care not to pry into the private lives of the believers to ensure that they
are behaving properly, but should not hesitate to take action in cases of blatant misbehavior.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated September 11, 1995, to a National Spiritual Assembly
To regard homosexuals with prejudice and disdain would be entirely against the spirit of Bahá’í Teachings.
The doors are open for all of humanity to enter the Cause of God, irrespective of their present circumstances;
this invitation applies to homosexuals as well as to any others who are engaged in practices contrary to the
Bahá’í Teachings. Associated with this invitation is the expectation that all believers will make a sincere and
persistent effort to eradicate those aspects of their conduct which are not in conformity with Divine Law. It is
through such adherence to the Bahá’í Teachings that a true and enduring unity of the diverse elements of the
Bahá’í community is achieved and safeguarded.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated September 11, 1995, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Sexual Immorality — Homosexual Behavior — Ch. 10
Sexual Immorality — Cohabitation — Ch. 10
Membership in Secret Organizations, Other Religions, or Political Involvement
If a person is registered as a member of a church or similar religious organization he should withdraw from it
on becoming a Bahá’í.
In the case of new believers, it should be made clear to them in the course of teaching them the Faith that one
cannot be a Bahá’í and also a member of another religious organization. This is simply a matter of
straightforwardness and honesty ...
You should not formalize the method by which the withdrawal from the church is to be made, and certainly
nothing should be added to a declaration form, if you use one. It should be left to the Local Spiritual
Assembly which is accepting the declaration to satisfy itself, as it deems best in each case, that the new
believer has already resigned from the church, or does so within a reasonable time of his declaration.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 21, 1968, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 532
We fully appreciate the problem, posed in the case of youth who accept Bahá’u’lláh but whose parents
strongly oppose their withdrawal from the Church. In such cases where the parents oppose their withdrawal
and insistence upon it by the youth would undermine the unity of the family it is permissible for the
withdrawal to be postponed until the youth attains the age of 21. This would not, of course, in any way affect
his acceptance into the Bahá’í community. As you mention, this is the very time at which such a newly-
declared believer needs all the deepening and confirmation he can receive.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 6, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 536
There may be occasions when an enrollment must be postponed, as in the case of someone holding a political
post, unless that person is able and can, in good conscience, resign from such a post immediately. Other cases
may permit acceptance but indicate a need for fixing a time when the individual will be required to conform
to certain laws, such as membership in the Masonic Order, church, or other ecclesiastical organizations. Still
other times an individual may be encouraged to become better acquainted with the spirit, laws and principles
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
of the Faith before submitting his application. However, the Guardian has cautioned us not to be too rigid in
our requirements for accepting new believers or to place hindrances in their way.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 13, 1979, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 254
See also:
Details of Enrollment Process — Postponement of Acceptance — Ch. 5
Membership in Certain Organizations — Ch. 10
Membership in Other Organizations — Ch. 14
Prisoners
A prisoner, showing sincere faith in the Cause, may be accepted as a Bahá’í on the same basis of
investigating his qualifications as to belief as any other individual outside prison.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated August 5, 1955, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Unfolding Destiny, p. 348
Prisoners who wish to be enrolled as Bahá’ís should be encouraged, but are not required, to submit their
declaration of faith in writing. Since Bahá’í Registration cards are not readily available in prisons and
Assemblies are not always accessible to prisoners, expressing their acceptance of Bahá’u’lláh in writing is a
direct way for prisoners to make their intentions known and enables the institutions to sense the person’s
understanding of the Faith.
Nonetheless, wherever possible, Local Spiritual Assemblies should arrange to have their representatives
interview those wishing to enroll in the Faith in prison in order to make certain that they are acquainted with
basic information about the Faith.
A declarant who is a prisoner should be contacted by representative(s) of the Local Spiritual Assembly, who
must be made aware that it is the policy of the National Spiritual Assembly to know the reasons for a
prisoner’s incarceration when gathering enrollment information. If at all possible, the Assembly should verify
the reasons given by a prisoner with the prison authorities or through public records. If satisfied that the
declarant has sincere intentions, the Assembly can forward the information about the conviction and the
Bahá'í Registration card to the National Assembly. The prisoner will be notified when the enrollment is
completed, though he or she will not be issued a Bahá’í membership card until released from prison.
Note: It is important to determine the reason for incarceration because the possibility exists that some crimes
could require a limitation of membership rights on the believer when he or she is released from prison. For
example, if the incarceration is the result of a sex offense against children, it may be necessary to restrict the
believer’s unsupervised contact with children at Bahá'í activities following his or her release.
See also:
Details of Enrollment Process — When Assembly Has Reservations about Enrollment — Ch. 5
Bahá'í Prisoners — Ch. 14
DECLARATION AND ENROLLMENT OR REGISTRATION OF CHILDREN AND
YOUTH
Children of Non-Bahá’í Parents
Under 15 Years Old
A Spiritual Assembly may accept the declaration of faith of a child of non-Bahá’í parents, and register him as
a Bahá’í child, provided the parents give their consent.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 19, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 512
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
[I]f the non-Bahá’í parents of a youth under fifteen permit their child to be a Bahá’í, we have no objection
whatsoever from the point of view of our Teachings to permitting such a youth to declare as a Bahá’í,
regardless of age. When he declares his faith in Bahá’u’lláh, he will then be accepted in the community and
be treated as other Bahá’í children.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 14, 1970, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 262
Junior youth and children of non-Bahá'í parents who wish to declare their faith may do so, either online or with
a paper Child Registration card, provided parental permission is obtained. The Assembly may accept written
or verbal permission from whomever has custody of the child, in cases of divorce or other circumstances
where both parents may not be available or able to give consent.
When a paper registration card is used to register a child, the parent(s) should sign the card to indicate their
acceptance of the child's enrollment as a Bahá'í. When registered online, parental permission, whether given
orally or in writing, should be documented. The electronic record should include the name of the parent(s)
who gave permission, the name and Bahá'í ID number of the Bahá'í who can verify the permission of the
parents, and the date that permission was given. Once this data is provided, the enrollment may be
completed, preferably using eMembership2.
See also:
Declaration and Enrollment or Registration of Children and Youth — Bahá'í Parents Responsible for Registration of
Children — Ch. 5
Declaration and Enrollment or Registration of Children and Youth — Discretion Needed When One Parent Is Not
Bahá'í — Ch. 5
15 to 21 Years Old
Declarations of faith from non-Bahá’í youth between the ages of 15 and 21, whose parents are not Bahá’ís,
may be accepted without the consent of their parents unless this is contrary to the civil law. However, the
importance of respect for one’s parents must not be forgotten, and such youth may need to be counseled to
give heed to their parents’ wishes as far as the degree of their activity on behalf of the Faith is concerned, and
even, if the parents are very antagonistic, to be completely inactive for a time.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 19, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Messages from the
Universal House of Justice, 1963–1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 333.15
The above guidance makes it clear that enrollment of a youth does not require parental permission; thus the
enrollment process can and should be completed without delay. Once the enrollment is completed, however,
the friends will need to help the new believer understand the importance of respect for their parents' wishes
regarding their level of activity in the Bahá’í community.
Children of Bahá’í Parents
Unlike the children of some other religions, Bahá’í children do not automatically inherit the Faith of their
parents. However, the parents are responsible for the upbringing and spiritual welfare of their children, and
Spiritual Assemblies have the duty to assist parents, if necessary, in fulfilling these obligations, so that the
children will be reared in the light of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh and from their earliest years will learn to
love God and His Manifestations and to walk in the way of God’s Law. It is natural, therefore, to regard the
children of Bahá’ís as Bahá’ís unless there is a reason to conclude the contrary. It is quite wrong to think of
Bahá’í children as existing in some sort of spiritual limbo until the age of fifteen at which point they can
“become” Bahá’ís. In the light of this one can conclude the following:
Children born to a Bahá’í couple are regarded as Bahá’ís from the beginning of their lives, and their births
should be registered by the Spiritual Assembly.
The birth of a child to a couple, one of whom is a Bahá’í, should also be registered unless the non-Bahá’í
parent objects.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
... In the cases of children whose parents become Bahá’ís, much depends upon the ages and reactions of the
children concerned. They will require great love and understanding, and each case must be judged on its own
merits. This applies to an added degree, of course, if only one of the parents has accepted the Faith, in which
case the attitude of the other parent is an important factor; the aim of the Bahá’ís should be to foster family
unity. The important thing is that the children, whether registered as Bahá’ís or not, should be made to feel
welcome at Bahá’í children’s classes and other community gatherings.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 19, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 512
See also:
Attendance Encouraged — Behavior of Children — Ch. 7
Bahá'í Parents Responsible for Registration of Children
The National Spiritual Assembly requires either verbal or written verification from Bahá'í parents if they wish to
have their child registered as a Bahá'í, provided there is no objection from a non-Bahá'í parent.
While Local Spiritual Assemblies are not authorized to complete a Child Registration card or online
registration without parental permission, it does have the responsibility to familiarize Bahá’í parents in their
community with the child registration process. Child Registration cards are available in English and Spanish
from the Office of Membership and Records at the Bahá'í National Center or by download from the Form and
Manual – Membership section of the national Bahá’í community website.
•
If the Local Spiritual Assembly has internet access, it should record the registration through
eMembership2 and retain the original Child Registration card in its permanent archives.
•
If the Assembly does not have internet access, it should make a photocopy of the completed card for
its records and mail the original to the Office of Membership and Records.
•
Parents may also register their children themselves through the Bahá’í Online Services tool My Page.
Once the registration is recorded in the National Membership Database, the child will be given a permanent
Bahá’í identification number and receive a welcome letter from the National Spiritual Assembly, which will
include the child’s Bahá’í identification number.
The parents should keep a record of the child’s identification number, and refer to it when making address
changes for the family. Parents may register their children at birth or any time before a child reaches the age
of 15. Upon reaching the age of 15, children are considered to have reached the age of maturity. If they have
not been registered before that time, they must formally declare their faith through the adult
registration/enrollment process if they wish to be recognized as Bahá'ís.
See also:
Declaration and Enrollment or Registration of Children and Youth — Children of Non-Bahá'í Parents — Ch. 5
Guidelines for Understanding and Updating Membership Data — Ch. 5
Discretion Needed When One Parent Is Not Bahá'í
It is within the discretion of your National Spiritual Assembly to determine whether children should be
registered as Bahá’ís in cases where one parent is not a Bahá’í. Although children of Bahá’í parents, under
age 15, are generally considered Bahá’ís, there may be circumstances in which they should not be registered
as such, and this is also left to your discretion. Local Spiritual Assemblies should help by advising the parents
to consider it one of their primary obligations to raise their children in a spirit of love and dedication towards
the Faith.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 13, 1976, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 522
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
Reaching the Age of Maturity
Fifteen is the age at which a child attains spiritual maturity, and thus it is at the age of fifteen that a Bahá’í
child assumes the responsibility for obeying such laws as those of fasting and prayer, and for affirming of his
own volition his faith in Bahá’u’lláh.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 19, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Messages from the
Universal House of Justice, 1963–1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 333.11
Administrative Handling of Transition to Maturity
In answer to your letter ... concerning the registration of children of Bahá’í parents the Universal House of
Justice has instructed us to say that at the present time it prefers to leave the details of such matters to the
discretion of each National Spiritual Assembly. One National Assembly, for example, sends a very nice letter
to each Bahá’í child in its community on the occasion of its fifteenth birthday (unless, of course, it has reason
to doubt that the child in question is a Bahá’í), explaining the meaning of attaining the age of maturity, and
extending the good wishes of the Assembly for his or her future services to the Cause. This does not require
an active response from every child but does provide each with an opportunity to make his or her position
clear if desired.
The House of Justice points out that the Assembly must wisely steer a course between seeming to doubt the
faith of a child who has been brought up as a devout Bahá’í on the one hand, and seeming to compel a child to
be a member of the Bahá’í community against his will, on the other.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 5, 1978, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 521
Policy to Contact Registered Youth Shortly Before Age Fifteen
When Bahá’í youth (including Persian youth), who were previously registered as children in the American
Bahá'í community, reach the age of fourteen years and ten months, the National Assembly sends a loving
letter along with the youth’s membership card and an explanation of the importance of reaching the age of
maturity. It is not required that the youth complete a Bahá’í Registration card since they have previously been
registered as a Bahá’í child. The National Assembly sends a letter to the youth's parents informing them of the
youth reaching the age of maturity and its importance.
The National Assembly hopes that each Local Assembly will celebrate this occasion with the youth and take
the opportunity to nurture his or her understanding of the significance of being a Bahá’í, of reaching the age of
spiritual maturity and of obeying the laws of the Faith.
Youth Acceptance of Membership Card Constitutes Affirmation of Belief
In accepting the membership card, the youth affirms his or her belief in Bahá’u’lláh. No other administrative
action is necessary. However, the Assembly is encouraged to develop a well-ordered pattern of consolidation
for the youth, by encouraging engagement with the lines of action identified for the cluster. It is important to
emphasize that a Bahá’í child is not compelled to become a Bahá’í.
If any Bahá’í finds that he does not believe in the Faith, he is free to leave it ... , and no stigma at all attaches
to such an action.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 8, 1985, to National Spiritual Assemblies
When a Youth Is Uncertain or Declines to Accept Membership Card
Should a youth decline to accept the membership card at age fifteen, he or she should give the membership
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
card to the Local Spiritual Assembly or return it to the Office of Community Administration at the Bahá'í
National Center. The Local Assembly will wish to assure the youth that he or she will be welcome to attend all
events open to the public and may enroll at any time.
See also:
Withdrawal from and Reinstatement of Membership — Ch. 5
STATUS OF MEMBERSHIP
FULL ADMINISTRATIVE RIGHTS
Bahá’ís in possession of their full administrative rights may attend Nineteen Day Feasts, vote and be voted for
in Bahá’í elections, participate in activities reserved for enrolled members in good standing, contribute to the
Fund, receive publications intended for Bahá’ís only, be appointed to service by the institutions of the Faith,
represent the Faith officially as teachers or speakers, be married in the Faith, go on pilgrimage, receive
credentials confirming their good standing, and enjoy the blessings of full participation in the Bahá'í
community. Please note that while an enrollment or International transfer is in Pending status, no
administrative rights are granted for the individual.
DEPRIVATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE RIGHTS
The deprivation of some or all administrative rights is a sanction which the National Spiritual Assembly
imposes when it is clear that a Bahá’í has knowingly or flagrantly violated certain laws of the Faith or has
demonstrated an inability to behave responsibly as a member of the Bahá’í community. Restrictions
associated with loss of administrative rights could involve the removal of some or all of the rights listed above,
depending on the circumstances. However, the believer’s spiritual commitment is not in question and rights
may be restored by correction of the violation or behavior that caused the loss.
See also:
Removal of Administrative Rights — Ch. 10
Meaning of Deprivation of Administrative Rights — Ch. 10
Limited Administrative Rights
At times, the National Assembly may find it necessary to place limitations on a believer’s membership rights,
without removing them fully. For example, if a believer has been behaving disruptively at Bahá'í events and
has refused to take corrective action, the Local Spiritual Assembly may recommend to the National Assembly
that the believer be restricted from attending all Bahá'í activities until he or she is able to demonstrate control
over his or her behavior.
In other cases, the National Assembly may relieve a believer from the responsibility to perform administrative
service because of mental health reasons. In such cases, the limitations on the believer’s membership rights
should not be viewed as a sanction but simply as a recognition that the believer’s condition renders him or her
incapable of shouldering such responsibilities.
See also:
Special Issues — Ch. 2
Covenant-breaking — Ch. 9
Removal of Administrative Rights — Limited Sanctions — Ch. 10
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
BAHÁ’Í CREDENTIALS
All American Bahá’ís, adult and youth, should carry current Bahá'í Membership cards issued by the National
Spiritual Assembly. The cards identify them as members of the Bahá’í Faith in good standing and entitle them
to attend Nineteen Day Feasts, conventions, and other meetings that are for Bahá’ís only.
See also:
International Membership Transfers — Ch. 5
CHECKING CREDENTIALS
The Local Spiritual Assembly is responsible for checking the credentials of American Bahá’ís from other
localities who wish to participate in community activities restricted to Bahá’ís. Checking visitors’ identification
protects the community from those who have had their membership revoked or from anyone who may be
hostile toward the Faith.
Since it sometimes happens that people will attempt to take advantage of the kindness and hospitality of the
Bahá’í community, it is especially important that the Local Spiritual Assembly ask to see the Bahá’í
identification of strangers claiming to be Bahá’ís and ask them to leave should they be unable to produce
current Bahá’í credentials.
Those responsible for checking may ask to see some form of photo identification in addition to Bahá'í
Membership cards or proof of Bahá'í membership from other countries. If the Local Assembly has internet
access, the credentials of Bahá’ís from other localities can be verified through eMembership2.
See also:
Opposition to the Faith — Ch. 9
Local Assemblies Are Not to Provide Credentials
Local Assemblies are not to issue temporary identification cards for believers, nor should they write letters
introducing them as Bahá’ís in good standing to immigration officials, other local, state, or Federal officials, or
to other Bahá'í communities.
Official Bahá’í credentials can only be issued, processed, and verified by the National Spiritual Assembly.
See also:
Immigration — Application for Citizenship — Ch. 14
CREDENTIALS OF BAHÁ'ÍS FROM OTHER COUNTRIES
Valid credentials are a Bahá'í identification card, a letter of introduction or a letter of transfer not more than
one year old issued by a National Spiritual Assembly.
See also:
Transfer into the United States — Policies on Administrative Participation during Transfer of Membership — Ch. 5
When a Foreign Visitor Arrives without Credentials
With the exception of visitors from Iran, Bahá’ís visiting from another country who do not have current
credentials and who wish to attend events for Bahá'ís only must have their Bahá’í status confirmed through
the Office of Membership and Records at the Bahá'í National Center. Local Assemblies with questions about
credentials are encouraged to contact that office on behalf of Bahá'í visitors and should not contact other
National Spiritual Assemblies. A visitor from another country who has arrived without credentials may be
issued a letter of introduction via the Office of Membership and Records only after the National Spiritual
Assembly of the visitor has been contacted and his or her good standing as a Bahá'í has been confirmed.
Bahá'ís from Iran arriving on a visitor’s visa may also be issued a letter of introduction via the Office of
Membership and Records through the international liaison. However, Bahá'ís from Iran who are not relocating
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
to the United States but are visiting for less than six months may attend activities restricted to Bahá'ís if
vouched for, as explained in the next section, “Visitors from Iran without Credentials”.
When confirmation of Bahá'í status has been received by the Office of Membership and Records and a letter
of introduction is, in turn, issued, it will:
•
be valid until the expiration of the believer’s current visa or a maximum of one year (whichever occurs
first)
•
allow the visitor to participate in Bahá'í activities (with the exception of elections) during the period of
the letter’s validity
The letter of introduction may be re-issued, if needed, as in the case of a multiple-year visa. While waiting for
a letter of introduction, the visitor is welcome to participate in all activities open to non-Bahá'ís, but not in
administrative activities, which are only open to Bahá'ís such as Nineteen Day Feasts and elections.
See also:
Who May Not Attend Nineteen Day Feasts — Bahá'ís Awaiting Verification of or without Current Credentials — Ch. 7
Visitors from Iran without Credentials
Because of current limitations on confirming the credentials of Bahá’ís visiting from Iran, they may be allowed
to participate in the Nineteen Day Feast or other community activities restricted to Bahá’ís for up to six
months after arriving in the United States if their Bahá’í membership is vouched for through either of the
following methods:
•
A Bahá’í family member or friend may vouch for the visitor by stating that he or she knows the visitor
to be a Bahá’í and that, to the best of his or her knowledge, the visitor is in full possession of his or
her membership privileges.
•
If no family member or friend is available to vouch in this way, a Local Assembly may consult with the
Office of Membership and Records and seek the assistance of a community member well versed in
such matters. The individual could then meet with the visitor and, if the visitor is believed to be a
Bahá’í in good standing, vouch for him or her.
Note that neither of these vouching methods are to be used for those who have moved to the United States
and who are awaiting the completion of the transfer of their Bahá’í membership to this country. In addition, if it
becomes clear that a visitor’s stay will exceed six months, the Office of Membership and Records should be
contacted to initiate the transfer process. Also, even visitors who have been vouched for are ineligible to vote,
or be voted for, in Bahá’í elections.
CREDENTIALS FOR AMERICAN BAHÁ'ÍS PLANNING TO TRAVEL ABROAD
Members of the American Bahá'í community planning to travel abroad for any reason are advised to carry
current Bahá'í credentials, except in certain instances. Before leaving the country, believers should seek
advice from the Office of International Pioneering, as there may be special conditions or guidance that
believers should be aware of regarding the destination country or countries. In most cases, in place of a
credentials letter, the American Bahá'í Membership Card will be adequate identification.
Believers planning to reside for more than six months in another country or within the jurisdiction of another
National Spiritual Assembly should contact the Office of International Pioneering for assistance six months
prior to their departure to transfer membership to the destination country.
See also:
Transfer into the United States — Transfer of Persian Bahá'ís — Ch. 5
Transfer out of the United States — Ch. 5
International Pioneering and Travel Teaching — Ch. 6
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
ALL AMERICAN BAHÁ'ÍS RETURNING FROM EXTENDED STAY ABROAD
All members of the American Bahá’í community who have been out of the country for six months or more
need to be officially transferred back in and must go through the membership transfer process described in
the membership transfers section of this manual.
See also:
Transfer into the United States — Policies on Administrative Participation during Transfer of Membership — Ch. 5
Transfer into the United States — Transfer of Persian Bahá'ís — Ch. 5
Returning International Pioneers — Ch. 6
REGISTER OF VITAL STATISTICS
Local Spiritual Assemblies, which are embryonic Local Houses of Justice, should develop as rallying centers
of the community. They must concern themselves not only with teaching the Faith, with the development of
the Bahá’í way of life and with the proper organization of the Bahá’í activities of their communities, but also
with those crucial events which profoundly affect the life of all human beings: birth, marriage, and death.
When a Bahá’í has a child it is a matter of joy to the whole local community as well as to the couple, and each
Local Spiritual Assembly should be encouraged to keep a register of such births, issuing a birth certificate to
the parents. Such a practice will foster the consolidation of the community and of the Assembly itself. Even if
only one of the parents is a Bahá’í, the Assembly could register the birth of the child, and upon application of
the Bahá’í parent issue the certificate.
... Each Assembly ... must conscientiously carry out its responsibilities in connection with the ... recording of
Bahá’í marriages in a register kept for this purpose, and the issuing of Bahá’í marriage certificates ...
In some parts of the world, if Local Spiritual Assemblies fail to carry out these sacred duties some believers
might gradually drift away from the Faith and even pay dues to churches or other religious organizations to
ensure that, when they require to register the birth of a child, to solemnize a marriage or to have a funeral
service, there will be a religious institution ready to perform the necessary services. Conversely, when Local
Assemblies have arisen to carry out these responsibilities, the believers have acquired a sense of security and
solidarity, and have become confident that in such matters they can rely upon the agencies of the World Order
of Bahá’u’lláh.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 17, 1981, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in Messages from
the Universal House of Justice, 1963–1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 280.20-21, 280.23
Bahá'í Marriage and Birth Certificates are available for a nominal fee from the Office of Membership and
Records at the Bahá’í National Center.
The Assembly should maintain registers (traditionally bound books designed for long-term record keeping are
recommended, although other means may be used) in which to permanently record the marriages, divorces,
births, adoptions, and deaths of community members. These registers should be maintained accurately and
with attention to detail. Care should be taken in the handling and storage of these permanent, irreplaceable
repositories of information on important life events.
The Local Spiritual Assembly should also report marriages, divorces, and deaths to the Office of Membership
and Records at the Bahá'í National Center. It may write a letter or send a completed Bahá'í Membership Data
Report form to convey the information. In the case of deaths, it should utilize eMembership2.
See also:
Archives — Ch. 4
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
NATIONAL MEMBERSHIP DATABASE
The National Spiritual Assembly maintains relevant information, such as contact information and membership
status, on all individuals who have ever been members of the Bahá'í Faith in the contiguous United States
through the National Membership Database and the Statistical Report Program. The online tool
eMembership2 allows Assemblies and registered Bahá’í groups to access and update data for individuals
living within their jurisdiction. The Bahá’í Online Services tool My Page enables individuals to access and
change their own personal information. Both of these tools are found on the national Bahá’í community
website, and directly modify the National Database. Local Spiritual Assemblies or registered Bahá’í groups
needing printed lists for their locality can contact the Office of Membership and Records.
See also:
Consultation with Others — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Assembly's Contact Information is Public — Ch. 4
Privacy Policies — Disclosure of Personal Information — Ch. 5
USES OF BAHÁ’Í MEMBERSHIP DATA
Bahá'í membership data is used by Bahá'í Institutions for the purposes of communication, statistical analysis,
and for ascertaining who is eligible to vote or be voted for in Bahá'í elections.
Guidelines for Community Membership Directories
The names and addresses of Bahá’ís are considered confidential and some believers may have privacy or
safety concerns, even between members of the same community or family, about which the Assembly may
not be aware. As long as provisions are made to honor anyone’s preference not to be included, a Local
Assembly may produce and distribute to the Bahá’ís within its locality a directory to facilitate communication
between community members. Bahá’ís in surrounding areas without Assemblies may also be listed, if they too
have given their consent. In addition, the directory should contain guidelines about how its contents may be
used.
Community Lists and Data Are Not To Be Used for Business Purposes
Businesses that sell Bahá’í specialty items are required to compile their own mailing lists and may not use
Bahá'í community membership data for that purpose. Bahá’ís who have expressed an interest in receiving
mail from a particular business may be added to the list. In addition, Bahá’í business owners are free to
contact other businesses owned by Bahá’ís to use or purchase their mailing lists. However, if individuals
request that their contact information not be shared, such requests should be honored.
Guidelines for Sharing Community Data with Institutions
It is left to the discretion of each Assembly whether it wishes to share its membership lists/personal data with
other Bahá’í institutions other than as outlined below for the Statistical Report Program (SRP). The lists/data
should only be used to conduct official Bahá’í business and should not include individuals who have
requested “no contact.”
Bahá’í Directories and Membership Data Are Confidential
Bahá’ís provide their addresses and personal information to the National Spiritual Assembly with the
understanding that the information they provide will be kept confidential.
The National Assembly regards personal information as a sacred trust, including those who do not wish to
receive unauthorized contact. Personal data should not be posted on the internet or given to individual
believers without permission from those listed, including community mailing lists, or directories reflecting
personal information.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
The National Assembly limits use of membership lists to endeavors related to expansion or consolidation only
and lists may not be used for promotional, advertising purposes, for business solicitation, or personal use.
Local Assemblies, registered Bahá’í groups, individuals or Bahá’í-related businesses may use the Assembly
contact information posted on the national Bahá’í community website to send mail or emails to communicate
their endeavors. Local Assemblies are free to share communications from other communities with the
membership of their locality or not, as they see fit.
Individuals who serve as statistics officers or data assistants at any level (cluster, regional, or national) are
required to adhere to a statement on confidentiality (see posting on http://nso.bahai.us).
See also:
Assembly’s Contact Information is Public— Ch. 4
Bahá’í Prisoners — Restrictions on Practice of Faith in Prisons — Ch. 14
Sharing Membership Statistics with the Regional or Cluster-Level Statistics Officer
In April 2007, the Statistical Report Program (SRP) application was launched worldwide and in the United
States for the purpose of evaluating and planning for the growth of the community at all levels. The following
excerpt from a letter written to select National Spiritual Assemblies by the Universal House of Justice conveys
the purpose of the Statistical Report Program (SRP) application developed for clusters and managed by Area
Teaching Committees.
One of the important accomplishments of recent Plans is a heightened awareness among institutions and
believers everywhere of the role statistical information can play in facilitating the planning process at the
cluster level. This is demonstrated by the increasing ability of the friends to collect pertinent data and to use
this information, which draws attention to strengths to be built upon and weaknesses to be overcome, to track
progress, analyse the patterns of growth prevalent in their communities and decide upon the next set of goals
to be adopted.
In this connection, the Statistical Report Program, created at the Bahá’í World Centre, has proven to be
particularly useful. This instrument was specifically designed to collect the most essential information
required to evaluate the progress of a cluster. It has already been introduced in a majority of countries and is
increasingly being used in clusters to facilitate analysis and planning. The program also provides for the
transfer of data collected within the cluster to the regional, national and international levels, thereby allowing
the respective institutions to remain apprised of developments close to the grass roots. In view of the progress
that has been achieved thus far, the Universal House of Justice has decided that the time has come for all
National Spiritual Assemblies to implement the Statistical Report Program ... by Riḍván 2008.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 8, 2007, to all National Spiritual Assemblies
Local Spiritual Assemblies have a vital role in confirming information, as they are often the most aware of the
known Bahá'ís not only in their jurisdiction, but also in nearby localities. In a letter dated March 4, 2008, the
National Spiritual Assembly emphasized this importance.
“Your Regional [Bahá'í] Council has appointed a Regional Statistics Officer who may be contacting
you to seek your assistance in gathering the membership information for your locality. Please share
with this individual the information requested, including name, address, phone number, and Ruhi
courses completed, for the believers in your locality. Your collaboration in this effort is important, and
we are confident that as all of our institutions work together with a unified vision, we will witness an
ever accelerating advance of the processes of growth in each locality and in the country at large.”
Membership statistics maintained at the local level are a vital component to the planning and reflection
process that clusters use today to evaluate their potential for growth. The Statistical Report Program (SRP)
was fully implemented in the United States by Riḍván 2008 and Local Assemblies are asked to fulfill their vital
role in the confirmation of membership information reported at the locality level to the regional level including
information on:
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
•
Name of known believer (excluding names of Bahá'ís who have lost their administrative rights, and
the names of children who are not registered)
•
Current address
•
Phone number
•
Gender
•
Date of birth—(Adults may be noted with an artificial birth year of 1920 if exact year of birth is
unknown or preferred not to be shared.)
•
Date of enrollment
•
Completed institute courses from the main sequence.
The Area Teaching Committee or the Regional Bahá'í Council appoints regional or cluster-level statistics
officers to collect and report this data back to them using the SRP. These officers are bound by strict
guidelines for confidentiality. How information is shared between the Local Assembly and these officers can
be left to the discretion of each Assembly.
Questions about the Statistical Report Program can be directed to the National Statistics Officer at
nso@usbnc.org or to your Regional Statistics Officer.
WAYS AND MEANS TO VIEW AND UPDATE DATA
National Bahá’í Community Website
The national Bahá’í community website provides a variety of online tools to assist local and regional Bahá'í
institutions. eMembership2 is a community management application that allows Local Spiritual Assemblies
and registered groups to maintain accurate and complete information for their communities in the National
Database. Using eMembership2, a current membership list can be maintained and printed locally at any time,
which saves the National Fund the costs of creating and mailing printed lists.
For help with technical questions or difficulties, Assemblies may contact the Bahá'í National Center Admin
Tools Help Desk by email at admintoolshelp@usbnc.org or by calling, toll-free, (866) 818-5724.
eMembership2
The online tool eMembership2 was created to allow Assemblies to access and update data for individuals
living within their jurisdictions. Working with this tool allows Assemblies to modify the National Database
directly, without any third party assistance. Assemblies are asked to record address and contact information
changes, Assembly formations, officer elections, routine declarations and registrations of children and adults
through eMembership2. To log in directly, go to https://emem.usbnc.org. A Bahá’í Online Services account
password is required to log in.
To access eMembership2 though the national Bahá’í community website:
•
Go to american.bahai.us
•
Click on the “Sign In” button in upper right-hand corner
•
Log in
•
If you are an officer of an Assembly or registered Bahá’í group, or an eMembership Assistant, you will
find a link to eMembership2 in your name drop-down in the upper right-hand corner of the home
page.
See also:
Details of Enrollment Process — Assembly Responsibilities in Processing a Registration — Ch. 5
Declaration and Enrollment or Registration of Children and Youth — Bahá'í Parents Responsible for Registration of
Children — Ch. 5
Guidelines for Understanding and Updating Membership Data — Suggestions for Handling Returned Mail — Ch. 5
Contacts and Supplies — Ch. 5
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
Letter or Phone Contact
While eMembership2 is the preferred method for changing data, in some instances, data can be changed by
calling the Office of Membership and Records or sending a letter to the same office with the request and all
relevant information. This letter can be sent by postal mail, email or fax.
See also:
Contacts and Supplies — Ch. 5
Community Membership List from National Center
Once a year, the National Assembly (through its Information Technology department) will send a Community
Membership List generated from the National Membership Database to those registered Bahá'í groups and
Local Assemblies which have not used eMembership2 within the past year.
If the Local Spiritual Assembly or registered Bahá’í group must work from the printed membership list
provided by the National Center, it is asked to review the membership list carefully, make any necessary
changes on the list and return it to the Office of Membership and Records. Otherwise, it is preferred that
changes be entered using eMembership2.
If an Assembly or group maintains its own membership database and prefers to send changes from that
database rather than write them on the list from the National Center, it should only report on those individuals
whose data is different from that found on the latest list sent from the Office of Membership and Records. A
Bahá'í ID number must be included for every change.
Obsolete Membership Lists Should Be Destroyed
Mailing lists must be kept secure to prevent them from falling into the hands of Covenant-breakers, enemies
of the Faith, or others who may use them for commercial or unscrupulous purposes. Other than archival
copies, obsolete lists should be shredded or burned.
See Also:
Guidelines for Disposition of Assembly Records — Records/Information to Be Permanently Retained — Ch. 4
My Page Access through american.bahai.us
My Page is a Bahá’í Online Services tool that allows individuals to change and update personal information in
the National Membership Database for themselves and their children under the age of 15. The types of
changes that individuals can make include name, contact information, and pioneering history. Bahá’í parents
can also register their children (under the age of 15) through My Page.
My Page can be accessed once an individual logs into american.bahai.us. For assistance or more
information, please contact the Admin Tools Help Desk by email at admintoolshelp@usbnc.org or toll-free at
(866) 818-5724.
Local Spiritual Assemblies may want to encourage their community members to use this time- and labor-
saving tool.
See also:
Guidelines for Understanding and Updating Membership Data — Registering Name Changes — Ch. 5
Specialized Report Forms
Some changes need to be made using a specific form from the Bahá'í National Center such as the Bahá’í
Membership Data Report form, rather than by using eMembership2 or sending back an edited list. All forms
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
can be found on the national Bahá’í community website under Form and Manuals — Membership or in
eMembership2.
See also:
Contacts and Supplies — Ch. 5
GUIDELINES FOR UNDERSTANDING AND UPDATING MEMBERSHIP DATA
Adding Bahá'ís Who Move In
When an individual moves into an Assembly's jurisdiction, the Assembly can add the person to its community
either through eMembership2 or by mailing the name, address, and American Bahá'í ID number of the new
person to the Bahá'í National Center, either via a letter or by writing this information at the bottom of the
printed membership list. The Assembly may also ask the individual to update his or her own information
through the Bahá’í Online Services tool My Page accessed on the american.bahai.us website.
Changing Inaccurate Bahá'í Locality Designation for Individual
If an individual is listed in eMembership2 or on a community membership list to live in a Bahá'í locality other
than the one they actually live in, e.g., they live outside the city limits, the Assembly can change the Bahá'í
Locality Code (BLC) indicated for the individual using eMembership2 or by marking it on the printed list from
the Bahá'í National Center and returning it.
The BLC is the six character code assigned to each locality by the Bahá'í National Center which indicates
both the state (the state abbreviation forms the first two letters) and the locality (the last four letters/numbers).
Information on the code for each locality is available through eMembership2 or from the Office of Membership
and Records.
Determining if a Believer is Limited or Deprived of Rights, Institutionalized, or
Imprisoned
Names of Bahá’ís with limited rights, deprived of their administrative rights, institutionalized, or imprisoned are
retained on the local membership list with notations about their administrative or personal status. Changes to
these records can only be made at the National level.
See also:
Criteria for Withdrawal — Ch. 5
Restoration of Administrative Rights — Ch. 10
Entering Adult and Child Registrations
Adult and child registrations can be entered into the National Membership Database through eMembership2
or by sending in a completed Bahá'í Registration card to the Bahá'í National Center's Office of Membership
and Records. They are not to be reported on the Bahá'í Membership Data Report form.
An Assembly may also register individuals within its cluster in a locality not already served by an Assembly.
See also:
Declaration and Enrollment or Registration of Children and Youth — Bahá’í Parents Responsible for Registration of
Children — Ch. 5
Handling Requests for Withdrawal — Reporting a Recommendation for Withdrawal — Ch. 5
Appendix: National Office of Membership and Records Information — Ch. 5
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
Entering New or Revised Personal Contact Information
The following information can be reported directly through eMembership2. If the Local Assembly does not
have internet access, the changes can be noted and returned on the computer-generated list from the Office
of Membership and Records by crossing out inaccurate information and writing in the correct information.
•
Address changes
•
Phone numbers
•
Email addresses
•
Indicating “address is unknown” — this should be done only if:
•
it is confirmed that the individual has moved out of the community, even if no forwarding address
is known
•
all options for locating the individual have been exhausted and there is reason to believe that she
or he no longer resides in the community
Address and contact information changes may also be reported to the Membership Office on Bahá'í
Membership Data Report forms (incomplete address information should not be reported, as it cannot be
recorded in the National Database). Individuals can also change their contact information themselves either
electronically using the Bahá’í Online Services tool My Page, by using the address change form from The
American Bahá'í, or by sending a letter or email to the Office of Membership and Records.
See also:
Ways and Means to View and Update Data — Ch. 5
Guidelines for Understanding and Updating Membership Data — Suggestions for Handling Returned Mail — Ch. 5
Contacts and Supplies — Ch. 5
Registering Name Changes
If an Assembly is submitting a legal name change on behalf of an individual, a completed Bahá'í Membership
Data Report form can be sent to the Office of Membership and Records by mail or email.
If an individual is submitting a legal name change, it is sufficient for the individual to email the Office of
Membership and Records at membership@usbnc.org, with his or her name change, Bahá’í ID number and
contact information. Alternatively, the individual may process the change independently, through the Bahá’í
Online Services tool My Page, and indicate the reason for the change.
After the change is processed, the individual will receive an updated Bahá’í identification card.
See also:
Ways and Means to View and Update Data — My Page Access through american.bahai.us —Ch. 5
Ways and Means to View and Update Data — Specialized Report Forms —Ch. 5
Contacts and Supplies — Ch. 5
Reporting Marriages
Marriages must be reported using a Bahá'í Membership Data Report form. It is important to include dates and
all other requested information.
See also:
Ways and Means to View and Update Data — Specialized Report Forms — Ch. 5
Contacts and Supplies — Ch. 5
Reporting or Verifying a Death
If the Assembly has internet access, eMembership2 should be used to report the death of a community
member rather than using the Bahá'í Membership Data Report form. It is important to include dates and all
other requested information. When the National Database shows an individual whose death has been
reported but “not verified” this indicates believers for whom a report of death, without a date of death, has
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
been received by the Office of Membership and Records. This can be the result of incomplete reports or
United States Post Office returned mail bearing the stamp, “Deceased, unable to deliver.” It is important for
Assemblies to assist in verifying the death, if possible.
If a date of death is known for an individual, it should be reported to the Office of Membership and Records
using eMembership2 or the Bahá'í Membership Data Report form. If a death had been reported erroneously,
the Office of Membership and Records should be notified so that the record can be corrected.
Once a death has been verified, the name is removed from the local community’s membership list but is
retained on the National Membership Database showing the last known address, for historical purposes.
See also:
Ways and Means to View and Update Data — Ch. 5
Contacts and Supplies — Ch. 5
Request for Withdrawal of Bahá'í Membership
At the present time, the National Spiritual Assembly handles all requests for withdrawal in the United States,
although often a Local Spiritual Assembly may be asked to assist with cases of individuals residing in its
jurisdiction.
See also:
Withdrawal from and Reinstatement of Membership — Ch. 5
Reporting Assembly Member/Officer or Group Officer Changes
Each Assembly is asked to report the results of its community's Riḍván annual election of the Local Spiritual
Assembly to the National Spiritual Assembly as soon as the results are determined. Reporting results of the
Assembly election and officer election through eMembership2 is preferable; however, for those Assemblies
that lack internet access, the Local Spiritual Assembly Election Report Form and Local Spiritual Assembly
Officers’ Election Report Form can be completed and mailed to the Office of Membership and Records at the
Bahá’í National Center. Any Assembly membership changes during the year can be reported in the same
manner.
The members and officers of the Local Spiritual Assembly or registered Bahá'í group are listed in
eMembership2 and on the first page of the printed report. If any of the names or offices are incorrect, changes
should be made either using eMembership2 or by indicating them on the list from the Bahá'í National Center
and mailed back to the Office of Membership and Records.
See also:
Election Procedures — Ch. 2
Contacts and Supplies — Local Assembly and Registered Group Formations and Changes — Ch. 5
Transfers Into and Out of the Country
Transfers into and out of the country must be reported to the Office of Membership and Records at the Bahá'í
National Center or via eMembership2. In the case of incoming Bahá’ís reported through eMembership2, these
individuals will appear in the Pending Members queue until the transfer is complete.
See also:
International Membership Transfers — Ch. 5
Contacts and Supplies — Ch. 5
Verifying Mail Returns
Mail is returned to the National Bahá'í Center by the United States Post Office for a variety of reasons. When
it is received back that address is entered in the National Database as a “mail return.” The Local Spiritual
Assembly or registered group is asked to try to verify the addresses of these believers.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
Once a community has verified that a person no longer lives at the last known address and has no forwarding
information, the Local Assembly through eMembership2 should use the 'Remove From List' function or notify
the Office of Membership and Records, which will remove the name from the local membership list. However,
the person’s name and last known address are still retained on the National Membership Database.
See also:
Ways and Means to View and Update Data — Ch. 5
Contacts and Supplies — Ch. 5
Suggestions for Handling Returned Mail
Examine the piece of returned mail carefully and note the reason the mail was returned. Sometimes mistakes
are made by the Post Office or the sender and can be easily corrected. In other cases more investigation may
be required, as outlined below.
Where to Search for a Correct Address
Do the simplest things first:
•
Check a recent telephone book. Remember that addresses in phone books may not be complete.
•
Call directory assistance. If asked, a directory assistance operator will sometimes give out the
address of the person whose telephone number is listed.
•
Ask other Bahá’ís whether they have any information.
•
If there is no phone listing, visit the last known address. Ask neighbors whether they have any
information.
•
Check a free people search site on the internet, such as www.zabasearch.com.
If these attempts fail, try the following:
•
Send a letter or a postcard to the last known address with the notation “Address Correction
Requested” on the front. Make sure the Assembly’s return address appears on the envelope. If the
person has moved, the Post Office will return the letter with the new address noted on it. A small fee
will be charged.
•
Addresses can be requested through the Freedom of Information Act. Make the request at the Post
Office. The request will not be able to be filled if the person moved more than eighteen months before
or did not file a change of address.
See also:
Assembly Has Duty to Ascertain Validity of Consents — Locating Parents — Ch. 11
When an Address Is Found
Once an address has been found, verify that it is valid and complete, either by calling the local post office or
through the United States Post Office website, at zip4.usps.com where correct formatting and the nine-digit
zip code can be found.
Arrange for representative(s) to contact the person to confirm that the contact information is for the right
person and, if he or she still considers him or herself a Bahá'í, encourage greater involvement in the
community.
The verified address information should then be entered for the person through eMembership2. If the Local
Spiritual Assembly does not have internet access these changes should be sent to the Office of Membership
and Records at the Bahá'í National Center on a Bahá'í Membership Data Report form.
See also:
Ways and Means to View and Update Data — eMembership2 — Ch. 5
Handling Requests for Withdrawal — Response of Local Assembly to Request for Withdrawal — Ch. 5
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
When an Address Cannot Be Found
If a person cannot be located after making all reasonable attempts, the individual can be removed from the
community's membership list by using the 'Remove from List' option through eMembership2. If the Local
Spiritual Assembly does not have internet access, a report documenting the efforts that were made should be
sent to the Office of Membership and Records with a Bahá'í Membership Data Report form.
If it is determined that a reasonable search has been made, the person’s name will be removed from the local
community’s membership list but retained on the National Spiritual Assembly’s National Membership
Database with a status of “Verified Address Unknown.”
INTERNATIONAL MEMBERSHIP TRANSFERS
TRANSFER INTO THE UNITED STATES
Transfer of membership for Bahá’ís who arrive in this country from another country (including Alaska and
Hawaii) can only be completed by the Office of Membership and Records at the Bahá’í National Center. Local
Spiritual Assemblies are not authorized to complete such transfers nor should they become involved in legal
matters of immigration.
Assemblies should also be aware that unscrupulous individuals may falsely represent themselves as Bahá'ís
for purposes of immigration.
Bahá’ís from other countries(including Alaska and Hawaii) who plan to remain in the United States for more
than six months should transfer their membership. If they have not already done so, the individuals involved
must contact their former National Spiritual Assembly and ask that a letter of transfer be issued. The letter
should be sent directly to the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States via the Office of
Membership and Records.
The letter should include the following information:
•
The full name(s) under which the person(s) was registered in the former country of residence, with
Bahá'í identification numbers, if available.
•
Both the last address from the former country and the current address in the United States.
If, after 60 days from contacting the former National Assembly, the Bahá’í still has not received his/her
American Bahá’í credentials, the Office of Membership and Records of the National Assembly of the United
States should be notified.
If the individual(s) transferring are of Persian ancestry, they may be subject to additional requirements
detailed in the sections below on transfer of Persian Bahá'ís.
Although a Local Spiritual Assembly may not write to another National Spiritual Assembly on behalf of
believers, it is free to help believers with transfer procedures, such as by initiating the transfer process in
eMembership2. This will add the new member to the pending member queue until the individual is
transferred. If an individual is unable to contact his/her previous National Assembly, the Office of Membership
and Records should be contacted for assistance.
In addition, the following information and items are required by the Office of Membership and Records to
complete a transfer:
•
Full legal name(s)
•
Date(s) of birth
•
Current address, telephone number and email, if available
•
Whether the person(s) has been in the United States previously
•
Original Bahá'í credentials should be mailed. Photocopies of the originals should be kept by the
transferees.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
See also:
Authority and Jurisdiction of National Spiritual Assembly — Ch. 1
Transfer into the United States — Transfer of Persian Bahá'ís — Ch. 5
Returning International Pioneers — Ch. 6
Pretending to Be Bahá'í for Purposes of Immigration — Ch. 9
Immigration — Ch. 14
Policies on Administrative Participation during Transfer of Membership
Persons without valid credentials or awaiting verification of credentials may participate only in activities open
to non-Bahá'ís, regardless of whether they have previously resided in the United States and/or are known to
the community.
Bahá’ís with current credentials from other countries (including Alaska and Hawaii) in the process of
transferring their membership to the United States may participate in administrative activities and are
considered eligible to vote or to be elected to an Assembly, pending the completion of their transfer from the
country in which they were last residing. Election of believers with transfers pending is subject to verification
after completion of transfer.
See also:
Credentials of Bahá'ís from Other Countries — Ch. 5
All American Bahá'ís Returning from Extended Stay Abroad — Ch. 5
When Transfer Is Complete
When the Office of Membership and Records receives a reply from the former National Spiritual Assembly,
the names of the transferring believers are added to the American Bahá'í membership rolls or have their
memberships re-activated, if previously registered in the United States. Then:
•
Transferees confirmed by the former National Assembly who are added to the rolls for the first time
are provided with new credentials in the form of American Bahá'í Membership cards.
•
If not, all documents are forwarded by the Office of Membership and Records to Community
Administration for handling.
In either case, the Local Spiritual Assembly or Auxiliary Board member receives notification when the transfer
has been completed, with the membership status of the believer.
After completion of the transfer, believers in possession of their administrative rights may participate again
administratively.
If a transferred believer had his or her rights removed under the jurisdiction of the former National Assembly
and the condition(s) that caused the loss of rights has been corrected, application may be made to have rights
restored through the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the United States.
See also:
Integration and Encouragement of Immigrants and Minorities— Ch. 6
Restoration of Administrative Rights — Ch. 10
Transfer of Persian Bahá'ís
Note: The term Persian refers to anyone of Persian (Iranian) ancestry.
In addition to the above requirements for all transferring Bahá'ís, there are special procedures for Bahá'ís of
Persian ancestry that protect individuals and the Cause, both in Iran and elsewhere. These procedures also
allow the National Spiritual Assembly to identify and be in touch with Bahá'ís of Persian ancestry living in the
United States whenever the need arises and to convey messages and calls of the Universal House of Justice
to them.
Local Spiritual Assemblies should lovingly explain to newly arrived Persian Bahá’ís the need for complying
with the instructions of the Universal House of Justice and the policies of the National Spiritual Assembly, and
should enforce transfer procedures firmly and uniformly.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
Persian Bahá'ís with Current Credentials
Travel to Iran after Current Credentials Were Issued
All Persian Bahá’ís who have traveled to Iran since their current Bahá'í credentials were issued must have
their credentials re-verified upon their return if their trip lasted four months or more.
Persians Who Were Formerly Members of American Bahá'í Community
Former Persian-American Bahá'ís holding current Bahá'í credentials from another country and now
transferring back into the United States will not need to fill out a Persian Bahá'í Membership Transfer
Questionnaire for a second time, unless they have traveled to Iran for a trip lasting four months or more since
their current credentials were issued. They are subject to the same general policies as other Bahá'ís during
transfer.
Persians Who Have Never Been Members of American Bahá'í Community
Persian Bahá'ís who have never been members of the American Bahá'í Community, and hold current Bahá'í
credentials from another country, must fill out in English a Persian Bahá'í Membership Transfer Questionnaire
and submit it to the Office of Membership and Records. Forms are available on the national Bahá’í community
website, or from the Office of Membership and Records, membership@usbnc.org.
Believers meeting these conditions are subject to the same general policies as other believers during transfer
but are not subject to the lengthy verification process that normally accompanies submission of the Transfer
Questionnaire, unless they have traveled to Iran on a trip that lasted four months or more.
The foregoing does not apply to Persian Bahá'í refugees in transit from Iran to the United States through
another country. The National Spiritual Assembly in the transit country may issue a temporary Bahá'í
identification document to a refugee to facilitate settlement. However, as such a document does not constitute
membership in the national community issuing it, the procedures for Persian Bahá'ís whose credentials have
not yet been verified must be followed.
Persian Bahá'ís Whose Credentials Have Not Yet Been Verified
According to instructions from the Universal House of Justice, Persian Bahá’ís who have left Iran since the
Revolution [January 1979] and whose credentials have not yet been verified may not be registered as
American Bahá'ís before their Bahá’í membership is confirmed.
•
The first step in the process is to fill out in English a Persian Bahá’í Membership Transfer
Questionnaire. Forms are available on the national Bahá’í community website or from the Office of
Membership and Records, membership@usbnc.org.
•
This form provides the National Center with specific information about such details as place of
residence in Iran; date and place of birth; and the names and telephone numbers or addresses of
parents, and so forth.
•
If the newly arrived Persian Bahá'ís have not been introduced from Iran, they are advised to ask their
friends and relatives in Iran to arrange for their introduction to the United States.
•
Because communication with the Bahá’ís in Iran is often difficult, the verification process may be
lengthy — more than a year in some instances.
While waiting for verification, Persian Bahá'ís are welcome to participate in all activities open to non-Bahá'ís
but may not take part in administrative activities such as the Nineteen Day Feast and elections.
TRANSFER OUT OF THE UNITED STATES
If an American Bahá’í is moving to another country for a period of six months or longer, the National Spiritual
Assembly must transfer her or his membership to the National Spiritual Assembly (if one exists) of the
destination country.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
To enable the transfer, the Office of Membership and Records or the Office of International Pioneering should
be informed of the following information:
•
Name and Bahá’í ID number
•
Overseas destination (name of country, city, address or other contact information)
•
Departure date (and duration of stay, if known)
•
Purpose of move
•
For the purpose of international pioneering, the Office of International Pioneering should be contacted
at pioneer@usbnc.org six months prior to the departure date to accommodate applications,
background clearances, and LSA approval.
After receiving this information, the Office of Membership and Records will send a letter of transfer to the
other National Spiritual Assembly informing it that the individual is a registered Bahá’í, indicating status of
administrative rights, and that his or her Bahá’í membership is being transferred to its jurisdiction.
See also:
Credentials for American Bahá'ís Planning to Travel Abroad — Ch. 5
WITHDRAWAL FROM AND REINSTATEMENT OF
MEMBERSHIP
MEANING OF WITHDRAWAL
Just as individuals may become registered members of the Bahá’í community by declaring their belief in
Bahá'u'lláh and His Revelation, they may have their Bahá’í memberships withdrawn if they decide that they
no longer maintain this belief. Should they later change their minds again, their Bahá’í membership may be
reinstated by the National Assembly. There are no restrictions on Bahá'ís interacting with individuals who
have withdrawn from the Faith (unlike Covenant-breakers, who are to be strictly avoided).
CRITERIA FOR WITHDRAWAL
If a person makes it quite clear that they do not wish to be considered an active member of the Bahá’í
Community and be affiliated with it and exert their voting right, then their name should be removed from the
voting list; but if a person considers himself or herself a Bahá’í, and for various reasons is not able to be
active in the affairs of the Community, then they should certainly not be removed from our voting list.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 2, 1951, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, no. 960
Should one who is a member of the Bahá’í Community lose his faith or find that he had not really believed
from the beginning he would notify the Spiritual Assembly of his withdrawal from the Community.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 15, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly
One’s beliefs are an internal and personal matter; no person or institution has the right to exert compulsion in
matters of belief. Since there is a wide range of meanings in the Sacred Scriptures, there are bound to be
different ways in which individuals understand many of the Bahá’í teachings. Nevertheless, it is necessary for
the viability of the Bahá’í community that its members share a common understanding of essentials. This
implies a commitment by each member to function within the framework established by such an
understanding. This framework includes, for example, cognizance of the existence of a Divine Revelation
brought by Bahá'u'lláh, the Manifestation of God for this age, and acceptance of the two primary duties
prescribed by God, as expressed in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the Most Holy Book of the Bahá’í Revelation. These
are: “recognition of Him Who is the Dayspring of His Revelation and the Fountain of His laws,” and
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
observance of “every ordinance of Him Who is the Desire of the world. These twin duties,” the Aqdas firmly
states, “are inseparable. Neither is acceptable without the other.”1
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated April 4, 2001, to all National Spiritual Assemblies
1 Bahá'u'lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, par. 1
Any member of the Bahá’í Community who finds that he does not believe in Bahá’u’lláh and His Revelation
is free to withdraw from the Faith and such a withdrawal should be accepted. But a Bahá’í who continues to
believe in Bahá’u’lláh cannot withdraw from the Bahá’í Community. While he believes in this Revelation he
is subject to its laws. Therefore your National Spiritual Assembly was not correct in accepting Mr. ... ’s
withdrawal from the Faith. In his very letter of withdrawal Mr. ... reaffirmed his belief in the Faith. You
should, therefore, immediately reinstate him and so inform him. Of course, he may well wish to remain
inactive, and if so his wish should be respected, but he should know that he is a member of the Bahá’í
community.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 8, 1970, to a National Spiritual Assembly
With regard to those who do not consider themselves Bahá’ís on the basis of the argument that they signed
the Declaration Card without actually knowing the significance of what they were doing, you should
determine who these people are. You should then deepen their knowledge of the Faith. If they feel, after
receiving sufficient information, that they do not wish to be Bahá’í, then their names should be removed from
the Bahá’í membership list.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 23, 1985, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 2035
See also:
Declaration and Enrollment or Registration of Children and Youth — When a Youth Is Uncertain or Declines to Accept
Membership Card — Ch. 5
When Individuals Accept Only Portions of the Teachings
Allegiance to the Faith cannot be partial and half-hearted. Either we should accept the Cause without any
qualification whatever, or cease calling ourselves Bahá'ís. The new believers should be made to realize that it
is not sufficient for them to accept some aspects of the teachings and reject those which cannot suit their
mentality in order to become fully recognized and active followers of the Faith. In this way all sorts of
misunderstandings will vanish and the organic unity of the Cause will be preserved.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated June 12, 1933, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 241
When Inactivity is Not a Basis for Removal from Membership
[P]eople who are inactive should not automatically be removed from the voting list. ...
It is very discouraging to find inactive and unresponsive believers; on the other hand we must always realize
that some souls are weak and immature and not capable of carrying on an active administrative burden. They
need encouragement, the love of their fellow Bahá’ís and assistance. To blame them for not doing more for
the Cause is useless and they may actually have a very firm belief in Bahá’u’lláh which with care could be
fanned into flame.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated April 25, 1947, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 295
When Inactivity Indicates Complete Lack of Interest in the Faith
Concerning your question about inactive believers, the Universal House of Justice feels that it would be
somewhat abrupt to drop them from the roster simply because they have been absent from meetings or
otherwise inactive. They should be approached and the reasons for their absence or inactivity ascertained, and
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
only when such investigation leads you to the conclusion that the believer concerned no longer believes in
Bahá'u'lláh should this definitely be recognized. Every case of inactivity should be investigated and the
believers lovingly encouraged to become active. A distinction is to be made between those who are interested
in the Faith but remain inactive and those whose inactivity indicates complete lack of interest in the Faith to
the extent that they have in fact ceased to be Bahá'ís. In this latter instance removal from the list is simply
recognition of this fact.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 18, 1974, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 297
If a Local Assembly feels that an individual's inactivity and failure to respond to all communication attempts
over a prolonged period reflect a complete lack of interest in the Faith, it may submit a report of the situation
to the National Assembly, along with a recommendation that the person's Bahá’í membership be withdrawn.
Withdrawing to Avoid Bahá’í Law
[I]f a believer who did not like a particular law were to be permitted to leave the community to break the
law, and then rejoin with impunity, this would make a mockery of the Law of God.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 15, 1967, to a National Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 204
A believer cannot escape administrative expulsion by the ruse of resigning from the Faith in order to break
its law with impunity. However, the Assembly should be satisfied that there was indeed such an ulterior
motive behind the withdrawal. A believer’s record of inactivity and his general attitude to the Faith may well
lead the Assembly to conclude that his withdrawal was bona fide ... and in such a case the withdrawal may be
accepted.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 20, 1971, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 203
We note the case in which believers have evidently attempted to withdraw from the Faith in an effort to
evade the Bahá’í law requiring consent of parents. This, of course, should not be permitted and such believers
are subject to administrative expulsion (i.e., loss of voting rights) on the same basis as if they had not made
that attempt.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 7, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Although the above guidance makes it clear that Bahá'ís may not withdraw from membership in the Faith to
avoid being held accountable to its laws, given the voluntary nature of religious membership, individuals
cannot be compelled to be members of the Bahá’í Faith against their will. Thus, if an individual insists on
withdrawing from Bahá’í membership, the National Assembly has no choice but to honor his or her request.
Nevertheless, should such an individual wish to rejoin the Bahá’í community in the future, any outstanding
issues surrounding the person's withdrawal would be considered before the Bahá’í membership is reinstated.
See also:
Removal of Administrative Rights — Believer Cannot Withdraw to Avoid Bahá'í Law — Ch. 10
HANDLING REQUESTS FOR WITHDRAWAL
At times, the National Spiritual Assembly receives communications directly from individuals who express a
desire to be removed from the membership rolls of the Faith. They may state, for example, that they no longer
believe in Bahá'u'lláh, or that they never did believe but they somehow became enrolled without
understanding what they were doing or that they have joined another faith (an indicator that they do not
believe in Bahá'u'lláh).
While such requests are generally honored, in some instances, the National Assembly may contact the Local
Assembly having jurisdiction to request additional information.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
If no reasons are given for the withdrawal request and the person lives within the jurisdiction of a Local
Spiritual Assembly, the Local Assembly may be asked for its comments and possible assistance in resolving
whatever issues may have prompted the request.
If the person lives in an area without a Local Spiritual Assembly, the National Spiritual Assembly may ask a
nearby Assembly to look into the request on its behalf.
Response of Local Assembly to Request for Withdrawal
When an Assembly receives a request to withdraw from the Faith, it should try to discover the reason for the
request. Sometimes believers who wish to withdraw are having mixed feelings about their beliefs, are having
difficulty relating to the community or other believers, or have personal issues that they feel makes their
membership a problem.
In all cases, the Assembly will wish to gain a better understanding of the individual's perspective, draw him or
her closer to the Faith and, if possible, help resolve any concerns. Often the most effective means to assist
believers who are wavering in their faith or having difficulties in their lives is to invite them to meet with the
Assembly’s representatives (rather than with the entire Assembly) to discuss the nature of their beliefs and
any pertinent issues and attempt to discover how the Assembly may be of assistance. This meeting could be
done as part of a home visit by the Assembly's representative(s).
Such matters should be dealt with in person, whenever possible, because communication through
correspondence or over the phone may seem less caring than the Assembly intends and may increase any
feeling of dissociation. The Assembly should strive to nurture each person, to draw him or her closer to the
Bahá’í community. It should help each person feel welcome and that he or she is a valued member of the
community.
It is important to note, however, that some individuals who are adamant about being withdrawn do not wish to
give a reason or meet with the Assembly's representatives. In such cases, it is not appropriate to insist that
they justify their decision or agree to the meeting.
Third party Requests for Withdrawal
In some cases, registered Bahá'ís may clearly express (for example, to a relative, a friend, or a representative
of a cluster agency) that they no longer wish to be, or no longer consider themselves to be members of the
Bahá’í community. Preferably, they would then be encouraged to contact a Spiritual Assembly, whether it is
their Local Spiritual Assembly or, in cases where there isn't one, a nearby Local Spiritual Assembly or the
National Spiritual Assembly. If the individuals seem to feel strongly about having their Bahá’í membership
withdrawn, however, and particularly if they do not seem inclined to request the withdrawal through proper
channels themselves, it is very helpful if the person or agency who has heard such statements report to either
the Local or National Spiritual Assembly. Details, such as what was said, are helpful in trying to ensure that
the individual's wishes are properly honored.
Withdrawal of a Member of a Local Assembly
If a Local Spiritual Assembly member requests withdrawal from Bahá’í membership, the Assembly should
make every effort to consult with the individual about the reason(s) for his or her decision. If unable to resolve
whatever prompted the request, the matter should be reported to the National Spiritual Assembly in the same
manner as other withdrawal requests. When a member of a Local Assembly writes directly to the National
Assembly requesting withdrawal and does not give a reason, the Local Assembly will be asked to provide its
comments before action is taken on the request.
Request Not to Participate Should Be Honored
Upon investigation, an Assembly may learn that the person still believes in Bahá’u’lláh but does not wish to
participate in the affairs of the Bahá’í community. If this is the case, the person’s desire not to participate in
community life should be honored, and the representative of the Assembly should attempt to clarify whether
the person wishes to forgo all contact or continue to receive mailings from the Local Assembly and/or the
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
National Assembly. A request for no mail from the National Assembly should be reported to the Office of
Membership and Records. A “Request No Mail” checkbox is available on each individual’s record in
eMembership2.
If believers become inactive it is naturally desirable that the Local Spiritual Assemblies attempt to maintain
contact with them and encourage them to become active unless, of course, it is obvious that their personal
situation precludes such activity. For example, a Bahá’í who is married to a non-Bahá’í may well have to limit
his activities to some degree in order to maintain the unity of his family.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 7, 1975, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 301
Reporting a Recommendation for Withdrawal
After investigating a withdrawal request, the Local Assembly should report the following information to the
National Assembly:
•
The person’s name, address and Bahá’í identification number, if known
•
A brief history of the matter, including any reasons the individual has given for wishing to withdraw
and a summary of any consultation regarding withdrawal between the individual and the Assembly or
its representatives
•
A copy of any written statement from the individual, if he or she has provided one
•
The Local Spiritual Assembly's recommendation as to whether or not the withdrawal should be
accepted.
See also:
Guidelines for Understanding and Updating Membership Data — Request for Withdrawal of Bahá'í Membership —
Ch. 5
Reinstatement of Bahá’í Membership
Those who wish to be reinstated to Bahá’í membership should not sign another Bahá’í Registration card.
Rather, they should contact their Local Spiritual Assembly or the National Spiritual Assembly.
Upon receiving the request, the Assembly should determine whether the person accepts the station of
Bahá’u’lláh and is willing to assume the responsibilities of Bahá’í membership. Often it is preferable that two
Assembly representatives meet with the person to clarify this. If the person had withdrawn from the Faith
because of specific concerns, it should be ascertained whether those concerns have been resolved. The
Local Assembly should then report the following to the National Assembly:
•
The individual’s full name, Bahá’í identification number, if known, address and any other available
contact information, such as telephone number and email address. If the individual's name has
changed since his or her withdrawal from the Bahá’í community, the former name(s) should be
included as well.
•
The name of the Bahá'í locality in which the individual now resides.
•
A brief summary of the individual's history regarding his or her withdrawal, the steps taken towards
reinstatement, and the Local Assembly's response and recommendation. Include a copy of any
written statement from the individual, if one has been provided.
If the request is accepted, the individual will be reinstated under his or her original Bahá’í identification
number. A letter will then be sent to the Local Assembly notifying it of the reinstatement and a new
membership card will be sent to the believer.
If an individual contacts the National Assembly directly, and further investigation by a Local Assembly is not
deemed necessary, a separate letter will be sent on behalf of the National Assembly, welcoming him
welcoming him or her back to the Bahá’í community, along with a new membership card. If the individual lives
within the jurisdiction of a Local Assembly, the Assembly also will receive a copy of the letter for its records.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
APPENDIX: NATIONAL OFFICE OF MEMBERSHIP AND
RECORDS INFORMATION
PRIVACY POLICIES
Disclosure of Personal Information
It is the policy of the National Spiritual Assembly that names and contact information for members of the
Bahá'í community shall not be disclosed, except to other institutions of the Faith, and except for official
contact persons for local Bahá'í communities and agencies of the Faith. Should a Bahá'í wish to make contact
with another Bahá'í for whom no contact information is known, they may contact the Office of Membership
and Records for assistance.
Mail Forwarding
Upon request, the Office of Membership and Records will forward email or postal mail addressed to Bahá'ís
residing in the United States on behalf of an individual, if the National Membership Database contains a
current address. The processing time required to locate a forwarding address will vary depending on staff
workloads and may include delays.
The following steps are required to forward email:
1.
The text of the email to be forwarded should be emailed to the Office of Membership and Records
at membership@usbnc.org.
2.
If there is no email address on file for the individual, the email will be returned to the sender,
otherwise it will be forwarded to the individual by the Office of Membership and Records.
The following steps are required to forward postal mail:
1.
The letter to be forwarded should be placed in a sealed envelope bearing the full name of the
person to whom it should be sent. Stamp(s) in the correct amount of postage should be attached.
2.
A cover letter or note should be prepared providing identifying information and requesting that the
enclosed letter be forwarded. The more complete the information provided (all names the person
may be known by, last known place of residence, approximate age, etc.), the greater the
likelihood that a correct match will be found.
3.
Both the letter to be forwarded and the cover letter should then be placed in an outer envelope
addressed to the Office of Membership and Records.
4.
The package should then be stamped with the correct postage and mailed to the Office of
Membership and Records.
If a current address is not available, the letter will be returned to the sender.
CONTACTS AND SUPPLIES
Bahá'í National Center
Office of Membership and Records
1233 Central Street
Evanston, IL 60201-1611
Fax only: (847) 733-3543
If the Local Spiritual Assembly has internet access, changes in address, contact information, Assembly
formations and officer elections should be made through eMembership2.
Where original documents or cards are required, they must be mailed. Each membership report must contain
the following information about every person listed in the report in addition to any information particular to that
category of report (such as date of death for a report of death):
•
Bahá'í ID number
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
•
Full name, current address and phone number
•
Bahá'í Locality Code and full name of community
Supplies, forms and information are available on the Membership page of the national Bahá’í community
website, american.bahai.us as well as from the contacts provided in the subtopics below.
See also:
Ways and Means to View and Update Data — eMembership2 — Ch. 5
Guidelines for Understanding and Updating Membership Data — Ch. 5
Administrative Changes
The email address, membership@usbnc.org or (847) 733-3445 can be used to convey the following changes
or requests for information:
•
Address changes (preferably done through eMembership2)
•
Child registrations (preferably done through eMembership2)
•
Declarations and enrollments (preferably done through eMembership2 – Assemblies only)
•
Name changes (supply copy of legal document)*
•
Bahá'í Membership Card replacements**
•
Supplies - Administrative
•
Child Registration cards *
•
Bahá'í Registration cards (available in English and Spanish)
•
Bahá'í Birth Certificates**
•
Bahá'í Marriage Certificates**
•
Bahá'í Membership Data Report forms *
All information received (including address changes) is entered into the National Membership Database that
serves all the offices of the Bahá'í National Center. There is no need to notify The American Bahá'í or other
offices of address changes once they are reported to the Office of Membership and Records. Individuals may
report name change and register their children through the Bahá’í Online Services tool My Page.
*If not submitted via eMembership2, completed forms must be submitted via mail, fax or email.
**There is a $5 fee for each of these items. Payment by check made out to “Bahá'í Services Fund” must
accompany each order when requested from the Office of Membership and Records.
See also:
Ways and Means to View and Update Data — eMembership2 — Ch. 5
Guidelines for Understanding and Updating Membership Data — Ch. 5
Local Assembly and Registered Bahá’í Group Formations and Changes
To report Local Assembly or registered Bahá’í group formations and changes it is preferable to utilize
eMembership2. You may also contact the Office of Membership and Records by email
membership@usbnc.org or by calling (847) 733-3439.
You can download any of the following forms in eMembership2 or from the national Bahá’í community website
under Riḍván Election Materials. You may also request a form by contacting the Office of Membership and
Records at membership@usbnc.org or (847) 733-3439.
•
Bahá'í Group Registration Form *
•
Local Spiritual Assembly Election Report Form *
•
Local Spiritual Assembly Joint Declaration Report Form *
•
Local Spiritual Assembly Officers’ Election Report Form *
•
Local Spiritual Assembly Report of By-Election Form *
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 5 – Community Membership
•
Instructions for Assembly Formation
•
Preparing Your Community for Elections
•
Questions and Answers About Assembly Formation at Riḍván
*If not submitted via eMembership2, completed forms must be submitted via mail, fax or email. If
eMembership2 is used, the completed forms must be retained in the community's permanent file.
For a Joint Declaration, in addition to being reported through eMembership2, the form must be submitted to
the Office of Membership and Records before processing can be completed.
See also:
Recordkeeping — Ch. 4
Ways and Means to View and Update Data — eMembership2 — Ch. 5
Guidelines for Understanding and Updating Membership Data — Ch. 5
Label and Membership List Production Desk (IT Reports)
Orders for community mailing labels and membership lists require authorization from the appropriate
administrative body. If the Local Spiritual Assembly has internet access, eMembership2 should be used to
extract the current membership list into an Excel spreadsheet which the Assembly can then use to print labels
or a membership list. If the Assembly does not have internet access or it needs assistance, it can contact the
Information Technology Reports desk by emailing it-reports@usbnc.org or calling (847) 733-3589.
Support Desk
To report the following changes or to obtain the following information, email membership@usbnc.org or call
(847) 733-3445. Some of these changes can also be reported in eMembership2, which is the preferred
method.
•
Bahá'í Locality Codes
•
Death, Report of*
•
Divorce, Report of *
•
Locate Community Contacts
•
Marriage, Report of *
•
Year of Patience, Report of *
•
Supplies - Administrative
•
Bahá'í Membership Data Report forms *
*Completed forms must be submitted in writing by mail, fax or email
See also:
Ways and Means to View and Update Data — eMembership2 — Ch. 5
Guidelines for Understanding and Updating Membership Data — Ch. 5
Transfer Desk
The transfer-in process for international transfers and Persian and Muslim enrollments may be initiated
through eMembership2. Contact the Transfer desk by email at it-international@usbnc.org or by phone at
(847) 733-3599. The Persian Bahá’í Membership Transfer Questionnaire is available on the national Bahá’í
community website at american.bahai.us. Transfer-in forms must be submitted via mail, fax or email.
See also:
International Membership Transfers — Ch. 5
Revised April 2016

6. COMMUNITY LIFE .......................................................................................................................................................2
BAHÁ’Í COMMUNITY CALLED UPON TO DISTINGUISH ITSELF ............................................................................2
SPIRITUAL DISTINCTION .......................................................................................................................................2
LOVE OF HUMANITY ..............................................................................................................................................3
ONENESS AND WHOLENESS ................................................................................................................................4
A DYNAMIC PATTERN OF BAHÁ’Í COMMUNITY LIFE .............................................................................................5
NINETEEN DAY FEASTS .........................................................................................................................................5
HOLY DAY OBSERVANCES ....................................................................................................................................6
DAWN PRAYERS .....................................................................................................................................................6
ANNUAL ELECTIONS ..............................................................................................................................................6
Local Spiritual Assembly Elections .......................................................................................................................6
Regional Bahá'í Council Elections ........................................................................................................................7
Unit Conventions ..................................................................................................................................................7
CORE ACTIVITIES ...................................................................................................................................................7
Study Circles .........................................................................................................................................................7
Children’s Classes ................................................................................................................................................8
Junior Youth Spiritual Empowerment Program .....................................................................................................9
Devotional Meetings .......................................................................................................................................... 10
Home Visits ........................................................................................................................................................ 10
INTEGRATION & ENCOURAGEMENT OF IMMIGRANTS AND MINORITIES........................................................ 11
Immigrants .......................................................................................................................................................... 11
Persian Bahá'í Refugees ................................................................................................................................ 11
Challenges and Opportunities .................................................................................................................... 11
Departure of Bahá'ís from Iran .................................................................................................................. 12
Response of Bahá'í Community towards Refugees .................................................................................. 12
Helpful Publications in Persian and English .............................................................................................. 12
Language Accommodations at Bahá'í Events ............................................................................................... 13
Minorities ........................................................................................................................................................... 13
People with Disabilities ...................................................................................................................................... 13
Bahá'í Service for the Blind ........................................................................................................................... 14
PIONEERING AND TRAVEL TEACHING ................................................................................................................. 15
INTERNATIONAL PIONEERING AND TRAVEL TEACHING ................................................................................ 15
Contacting the Office of International Pioneering .............................................................................................. 16
Preparation for International Service ................................................................................................................. 16
Persons Counted as International Pioneers or Traveling Teachers .............................................................. 16
Youth Pioneers .............................................................................................................................................. 16
Traveling to Sensitive Countries .................................................................................................................... 17
FUNDING SUPPORT FOR PIONEERS ................................................................................................................ 17
Obtaining Funding Support for Pioneering ........................................................................................................ 17
Deputization of International Pioneers in General ............................................................................................. 17
Sponsorship of Individual International Pioneers .............................................................................................. 17
RETURNING INTERNATIONAL PIONEERS ........................................................................................................ 18
HOMEFRONT PIONEERING AND TRAVEL TEACHING ..................................................................................... 18
Deputization of Homefront Pioneers .................................................................................................................. 18
NATIONAL BAHÁ'Í SCHOOLS ................................................................................................................................. 18
PERMANENT NATIONAL BAHÁ’Í SCHOOLS ...................................................................................................... 19
SEASONAL BAHÁ’Í SCHOOLS ............................................................................................................................ 19
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 6 – Community Life
6. COMMUNITY LIFE
BAHÁ’Í COMMUNITY CALLED UPON TO DISTINGUISH
ITSELF
I desire distinction for you. The Bahá'ís must be distinguished from others of humanity. But this distinction
must not depend upon wealth — that they should become more affluent than other people. I do not desire for
you financial distinction. It is not an ordinary distinction I desire; not scientific, commercial, industrial
distinction. For you I desire spiritual distinction — that is, you must become eminent and distinguished in
morals. In the love of God you must become distinguished from all else. You must become distinguished for
loving humanity, for unity and accord, for love and justice. In brief, you must become distinguished in all the
virtues of the human world — for faithfulness and sincerity, for justice and fidelity, for firmness and
steadfastness, for philanthropic deeds and service to the human world, for love toward every human being, for
unity and accord with all people, for removing prejudices and promoting international peace. Finally, you
must become distinguished for heavenly illumination and for acquiring the bestowals of God. I desire this
distinction for you. This must be the point of distinction among you.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 190
SPIRITUAL DISTINCTION
The first duty prescribed by God for His servants is the recognition of Him Who is the Dayspring of His
Revelation and the Fountain of His laws, Who representeth the Godhead in both the Kingdom of his Cause
and the world of creation. Whoso achieveth this duty hath attained unto all good; and whoso is deprived
thereof, hath gone astray, though he be the author of every righteous deed. It behooveth every one who
reacheth this most sublime station, this summit of transcendent glory, to observe every ordinance of him Who
is the Desire of the world. These twin duties are inseparable. Neither is acceptable without the other. Thus
hath it been decreed by Him Who is the Source of Divine inspiration."
Bahá'u'lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 330
Now amidst all the peoples of the world must the beloved arise, with a heart even as the day-star, a strong
inward urge, a shining brow, a musk-scented breath, a tongue speaking ever of God, an exposition crystal-
clear, a high resolve, a power born of heaven, a spiritual character, a confirmation nothing short of the divine.
Let them one and all become as a splendour on the horizon of heaven, and in the skies of the world a dazzling
star. Let them be fruitful trees in the celestial bowers, sweet-scented blooms in the divine gardens; let them be
verses of perfection on the page of the universe, words of oneness in the Book of Life. This is the first age,
and the early beginnings of the dispensation of the Most Great light, wherefore, within this century, virtues
must be acquired, goodly qualities must be perfected within this span of time. In these very days the Abhá
Paradise must pitch its pavilions on the plains of the world. The lights of reality must now be revealed, and
the secrets of God's bestowals must now be made known, and now must the olden grace shine forth and this
world change into the pleasure-ground of heaven, the garden of God. And out of pure hearts, and through
heavenly bounties, all the perfections, qualities and attributes of the divine must now be made manifest.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Άbdu'l-Bahá, p. 232
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 6 – Community Life
The people of the world not only need the laws and principles of the Bahá'í Faith--they desperately need to
see the love that is engendered by it in the hearts of its followers, and to partake of that atmosphere of
tolerance, understanding, forbearance and active kindness which should be the hall-mark of a Bahá'í
Community.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated December 5, 1942, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1345
The process of becoming a Bahá'í is necessarily slow and gradual. The essential is not that the beginner
should have a full and detailed knowledge of the Cause, a thing which is obviously impossible in the vast
majority of cases, but that he should, by an act of his own will, be willing to uphold and follow the truth and
guidance set forth in the Teachings, and thus open his heart and mind to the reality of the Manifestation.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated November 28, 1939 written to an individual believer, in Directives from the
Guardian, p. 9
LOVE OF HUMANITY
The Great Being saith: O ye children of men! The fundamental purpose animating the Faith of God and His
Religion is to safeguard the interests and promote the unity of the human race, and to foster the spirit of love
and fellowship amongst men. Suffer it not to become a source of dissension and discord, of hate and enmity.
This is the straight Path, the fixed and immovable foundation. Whatsoever is raised on this foundation, the
changes and chances of the world can never impair its strength, nor will the revolution of countless centuries
undermine its structure.
Bahá'u'lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 215
Verily, God has chosen you for His love and knowledge; God has chosen you for the worthy service of
unifying mankind; God has chosen you for the purpose of investigating reality and promulgating international
peace; God has chosen you for the progress and development of humanity, for spreading and proclaiming true
education, for the expression of love toward your fellow creatures and the removal of prejudice; God has
chosen you to blend together human hearts and give light to the human world. The doors of His generosity are
wide, wide open to us; but we must be attentive, alert and mindful, occupied with service to all mankind,
appreciating the bestowals of God and ever conforming to His will.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 334–335
As regards the meaning of Bahá'u'lláh's words regarding love of humanity, the Master often explained it to
mean that man should love his family, then his native town, then his province, then his nation, but should not
stop there and acquire a narrow nationalism, but grow to love the whole-wide world and mankind at large.
Bahá'ís love their country but should also love the world, that is, other peoples.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 5, 1950, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1343
At the group level, a concern for justice is the indispensable compass in collective decision making, because
it is the only means by which unity of thought and action can be achieved. Far from encouraging the punitive
spirit that has often masqueraded under its name in past ages, justice is the practical expression of awareness
that, in the achievement of human progress, the interests of the individual and those of society are inextricably
linked. To the extent that justice becomes a guiding concern of human interaction, a consultative climate is
encouraged that permits options to be examined dispassionately and appropriate courses of action selected. In
such a climate the perennial tendencies toward manipulation and partisanship are far less likely to deflect the
decision-making process.
The implications for social and economic development are profound. Concern for justice protects the task of
defining progress from the temptation to sacrifice the well-being of the generality of humankind — and even
of the planet itself — to the advantages which technological breakthroughs can make available to privileged
minorities. In design and planning, it ensures that limited resources are not diverted to the pursuit of projects
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 6 – Community Life
extraneous to a community's essential social or economic priorities. Above all, only development programs
that are perceived as meeting their needs and as being just and equitable in objective can hope to engage the
commitment of the masses of humanity, upon whom implementation depends. The relevant human qualities
such as honesty, a willingness to work, and a spirit of cooperation are successfully harnessed to the
accomplishment of enormously demanding collective goals when every member of society — indeed every
component group within society — can trust that they are protected by standards and assured of benefits that
apply equally to all.
Statement prepared by the Bahá'í International Community, dated January 23, 1995, “The Prosperity of Humankind”, p. 5
[I]t is important for Bahá'ís to understand more deeply the forces operating on the world stage and the
solutions offered by the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh. Our task is to convey to seekers that we are all living in the
same world, facing common trials, and striving to fulfill similar, long-held aspirations for the human race. Our
expressions of solidarity with our fellow human beings must be sincerely voiced and genuinely felt.
Document prepared by the International Teaching Center, dated April 2003, “Building Momentum: A Coherent Approach to Growth”,
in Turning Point, Selected Messages from the Universal House of Justice and Supplemental Material, 1996-2006, par. 52.129
ONENESS AND WHOLENESS
Of the principles enshrined in these Tablets the most vital of them all is the principle of the oneness and
wholeness of the human race, which may well be regarded as the hall-mark of Bahá'u'lláh’s Revelation and
the pivot of His teachings. Of such cardinal importance is this principle of unity that it is expressly referred to
in the Book of His Covenant, and He unreservedly proclaims it as the central purpose of His Faith.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, pp. 216–217
Let there be no misgivings as to the animating purpose of the world-wide Law of Bahá’u’lláh. Far from
aiming at the subversion of the existing foundations of society, it seeks to broaden its basis, to remold its
institutions in a manner consonant with the needs of an ever-changing world. It can conflict with no legitimate
allegiances, nor can it undermine essential loyalties. Its purpose is neither to stifle the flame of a sane and
intelligent patriotism in men’s hearts, nor to abolish the system of national autonomy so essential if the evils
of excessive centralization are to be avoided. It does not ignore, nor does it attempt to suppress, the diversity
of ethnical origins, of climate, of history, of language and tradition, of thought and habit, that differentiate the
peoples and nations of the world. It calls for a wider loyalty, for a larger aspiration than any that has animated
the human race. It insists upon the subordination of national impulses and interests to the imperative claims of
a unified world. It repudiates excessive centralization on one hand, and disclaims all attempts at uniformity on
the other. Its watchword is unity in diversity…
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 206
[T]he human species is an organic whole, the leading edge of the evolutionary process. That human
consciousness necessarily operates through an infinite diversity of individual minds and motivations detracts
in no way from its essential unity. Indeed, it is precisely an inhering diversity that distinguishes unity from
homogeneity or uniformity. What the peoples of the world are today experiencing, Bahá’u’lláh said, is their
collective coming- of-age, and it is through this emerging maturity of the race that the principle of unity in
diversity will find full expression. From its earliest beginnings in the consolidation of family life, the process
of social organization has successively moved from the simple structures of clan and tribe, through
multitudinous forms of urban society, to the eventual emergence of the nation-state, each stage opening up a
wealth of new opportunities for the exercise of human capacity.
Statement prepared by the Bahá'í International Community, dated January 23, 1995, “The Prosperity of Humankind”, p. 4
Unity of mankind is the pivotal principle of His Revelation; Bahá'í communities must therefore become
renowned for their demonstration of this unity. In a world becoming daily more divided by factionalism and
group interests, the Bahá'í community must be distinguished by the concord and harmony of its relationships.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 6 – Community Life
The coming of age of the human race must be foreshadowed by the mature, responsible understanding of
human problems and the wise administration of their affairs by these same Bahá'í communities. The practice
and development of such Bahá'í characteristics are the responsibility alike of individual Bahá'ís and
administrative institutions, although the greatest opportunity to foster their growth rests with the Local
Spiritual Assemblies.
Message from the Universal House of Justice, dated Naw-Rúz 1974, to the Bahá'ís of the World, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1963–1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 141.12
A DYNAMIC PATTERN OF BAHÁ’Í COMMUNITY LIFE
As we have said in an earlier message, the flourishing of the community, especially at the local level,
demands a significant enhancement in patterns of behavior: those patterns by which the collective expression
of the virtues of the individual members of and the functioning of the Spiritual Assembly is manifest in the
unity and fellowship of the community and the dynamism of its activity and growth. This calls for the
integration of the component elements — adults, youth and children — in spiritual, social, educational and
administrative activities; and their engagement in local plans of teaching and development. It implies a
collective will and sense of purpose to perpetuate the Spiritual Assembly through annual elections. It involves
the practice of collective worship of God.
Message from the Universal House of Justice, dated Riḍván 1996, to the Bahá’ís of the World, in Turning Point, Selected Messages
from the Universal House of Justice and Supplemental Material, 1996-2006, par. 4.26
In our Riḍván 2008 message we indicated that, as the friends continued to labor at the level of the cluster,
they would find themselves drawn further and further into the life of society and would be challenged to
extend the process of systematic learning in which they are engaged to encompass a widening range of human
endeavors. A rich tapestry of community life begins to emerge in every cluster as acts of communal worship,
interspersed with discussions undertaken in the intimate setting of the home, are woven together with
activities that provide spiritual education to all members of the population — adults, youth and children.
Message from the Universal House of Justice, dated Riḍván 2010, to the Bahá’ís of the World
NINETEEN DAY FEASTS
This Feast was established by His Highness the Báb, to occur once in nineteen days. Likewise, the Blessed
Perfection hath commanded, encouraged and reiterated it. Therefore, it hath the utmost importance.
Undoubtedly you must give the greatest attention to this establishment and raise it to the highest point of
importance, so that it may become continual and constant. The believers of God must assemble and associate
with each other in the utmost love, joy and fragrance. They must conduct themselves (in these Feasts) with
the greatest dignity and consideration, chant divine verses, peruse instructive articles, read the Tablets of
Άbdu'l-Bahá, encourage and inspire each other with love for the whole human race, invoke God with perfect
joy and fragrance, sing the verses, glorifications and praises of the Self-subsistent Lord and deliver eloquent
speeches. The owner of the house must personally serve the beloved ones. He must seek after the comfort of
all and with the utmost humility he must show forth kindness to every one. If the Feast is arranged in this
manner and in the way mentioned, that supper is the “Lord’s supper,” for the result is the same result and the
effect is the same effect.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Tablets of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá Abbas, pp. 469-470
See also:
Ch. 7, The Nineteen Day Feast
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 6 – Community Life
HOLY DAY OBSERVANCES
See also:
Ch. 8, Holy Days and Festivals
DAWN PRAYERS
One of the characteristics of the Bahá’í society will be the gathering of the believers each day during the
hours between dawn and two hours after sunrise to listen to the reading and chanting of the Holy Word. In
many communities at the present time, especially in rural ones, such gatherings will fit naturally into the
pattern of the friends’ daily life, and where this is the case it would do much to foster the unity of the local
community and deepen the friends’ knowledge of the Teachings if such gatherings could be organized by the
Local Spiritual Assembly on a regular basis. Attendance at these gatherings is not to be obligatory but we
hope that the friends will more and more be drawn to take part in them. This is a goal which can be attained
gradually.
Message from the Universal House of Justice, dated Naw-Rúz 1974, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in Messages from the
Universal House of Justice 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 142.14
With reference to attending dawn prayers in the Mashriqu'l-Adhkár, the Bahá'í House of Worship,
Bahá'u'lláh has explained that, although the actual time specified in the Book of God is “the hour of dawn”, it
is acceptable at any time from “the earliest dawn of day, between dawn and sunrise, or even up to two hours
after sunrise.”
Universal House of Justice in “Notes” appended to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, no. 142
ANNUAL ELECTIONS
It should be remembered by every follower of the Cause that the system of Bahá'í administration is not an
innovation imposed arbitrarily upon the Bahá'ís of the world since the Master's passing, but derives its
authority from the Will and Testament of Άbdu'l-Bahá, is specifically prescribed in unnumbered Tablets, and
rests in some of its essential features upon the explicit provisions of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. It thus unifies and
correlates the principles separately laid down by Bahá'u'lláh and Άbdu'l-Bahá, and is indissolubly bound with
the essential verities of the Faith. To dissociate the administrative principles of the Cause from the purely
spiritual and humanitarian teachings would be tantamount to a mutilation of the body of the Cause, a
separation that can only result in the disintegration of its component parts, and the extinction of the Faith
itself.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 5
See also:
Ch. 2, Bahá’í Elections
Local Spiritual Assembly Elections
In order to avoid division and disruption, that the Cause may not fall a prey to conflicting interpretations, and
lose thereby its purity and pristine vigor, that its affairs may be conducted with efficiency and promptness, it
is necessary that every one should conscientiously take an active part in the election of these Assemblies ...
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá'í Administration, p. 41
See also:
Forming the Local Assembly — Ch. 2
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 6 – Community Life
Regional Bahá'í Council Elections
The members of an elected Regional Bahá’í Council, who shall be nine in number, are elected from among
all the adult believers in the region by the members of the Local Spiritual Assemblies in that region every
year.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 30, 1997, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in Turning Point, Selected
Messages of the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 14.17
Regional Bahá’í Councils are elected annually. Balloting occurs in early November so the election results can
be announced on the Day of the Covenant, November 26.
See also:
Establishment and Purpose of Regional Bahá’í Council — Ch.1
Unit Conventions
The National Spiritual Assembly appoints a Local Assembly within each electoral unit to organize the
convention for the year. Additional information about Unit Conventions, including report forms, the current
Convention planning guide, and Convention bookstore materials, is available at american.bahai.us.
See also:
Unit Convention — Ch. 2
CORE ACTIVITIES
Those who serve in these settings, both local inhabitants and visiting teachers, would rightly view their work
in terms of community building. To assign to their teaching efforts such labels as "door-to-door", even though
the first contact may involve calling upon the residents of a home without prior notice, would not do justice to
a process that seeks to raise capacity within a population to take charge of its own spiritual , social and
intellectual development. The activities that drive this process, and in which newly found friends are invited
to engage-meetings that strengthen the devotional character of the community; classes that nurture the tender
hearts and minds of children; groups that channel the surging energies of junior youth; circles of study, open
to all, that enable people of varied backgrounds to advance on equal footing and explore the application of the
teachings to their individual and collective lives-may well need to be maintained with assistance from outside
the local population for a time. It is to be expected, however, that the multiplication of these core activities
would soon be sustained by human resources indigenous to the neighbourhood or village itself-by men and
women eager to improve material and spiritual conditions in their surroundings. A rhythm of community life
should gradually emerge, then, commensurate with the capacity of an expanding nucleus of individuals
committed to Bahá’u’lláh’s vision of a new World Order.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated Riḍván 2010, to the Bahá'ís of the World
For more information regarding the core activities, contact your Regional Bahá'í Council or Auxiliary Board
member.
See also:
Assembly Participation in the Cluster — Ch. 1
Study Circles
Just as the habit of daily reading will remain an integral part of Bahá’í identity, so will these forms of study
continue to hold a place in the collective life of the community. But understanding the implications of the
Revelation, both in terms of individual growth and social progress, increases manifold when study and service
are joined and carried out concurrently. There, in the field of service, knowledge is tested, questions arise out
of practice, and new levels of understanding are achieved. In the system of distance education that has now
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 6 – Community Life
been established in country after country-the principal elements of which include the study circle, the tutor
and the curriculum of the Ruhi Institute-the worldwide Bahá’í community has acquired the capacity to enable
thousands, nay millions, to study the writings in small groups with the explicit purpose of translating the
Bahá’í teachings into reality, carrying the work of the Faith forward into its next stage: sustained large-scale
expansion and consolidation.
Let no one fail to appreciate the possibilities thus created. Passivity is bred by the forces of society today. A
desire to be entertained is nurtured from childhood, with increasing efficiency, cultivating generations willing
to be led by whoever proves skilful at appealing to superficial emotions. Even in many educational systems
students are treated as though they were receptacles designed to receive information. That the Bahá’í world
has succeeded in developing a culture which promotes a way of thinking, studying, and acting, in which all
consider themselves as treading a common path of service-supporting one another and advancing together,
respectful of the knowledge that each one possesses at any given moment and avoiding the tendency to divide
the believers into categories such as deepened and uninformed-is an accomplishment of enormous
proportions. And therein lie the dynamics of an irrepressible movement.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice dated Riḍván 2010, to the Bahá'ís of the World
Without exception, having witnessed the transformative effects of the institute process first hand, the friends
in such clusters are striving to gain a fuller appreciation of the dynamics that underlie it — the spirit of
fellowship it creates, the participatory approach it adopts, the depth of understanding it fosters, the acts of
service it recommends, and, above all, its reliance on the Word of God. Every effort is being exerted to ensure
that the process reflects the complementarity of “being” and “doing” the institute courses make explicit; the
centrality they accord to knowledge and its application; the emphasis they place on avoiding false
dichotomies; the stress they lay on memorization of the Creative Word; and the care they exercise in raising
consciousness, without awakening the insistent self.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 2010, to the Conference of Continental Counselors
The Ruhi books in the current study circle curriculum are:
•
Book 1, Reflections on the Life of the Spirit
•
Book 2, Arising to Serve
•
Book 3, Teaching Children's Classes, Grade 1
•
Book 3A, Teaching Children's Classes, Grade 2
•
Book 4, The Twin Manifestations
•
Book 5, Releasing the Powers of Junior Youth (pre-publication edition)
•
Book 6, Teaching the Cause
•
Book 7, Walking Together on a Path of Service
•
Book 8, The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh (material in development)
Contact your Cluster Institute Coordinator or your Regional Training Institute for more information on the Ruhi
series or to participate in a study circle.
See also:
Agencies of the Regional Bahá’í Council — Ch. 1
Children’s Classes
Far more extensive programs should be initiated … to ensure that Bahá’í children are nurtured, encouraged to
acquire trained minds, illumined with a sound knowledge of the Divine Teachings, well-equipped to
participate in the work of the Cause at all levels and to contribute to the arts, crafts and sciences necessary for
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 6 – Community Life
the advancement of civilization. Such programs, when open to all children, Bahá’í or not, offer a potent
means of extending the beneficial influences of Bahá’u’lláh’s Message to the wider society.
Message from the Universal House of Justice, dated Riḍván 1996, to the Followers of Bahá'u'lláh in select countries, in Turning Point,
Selected Messages of the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 9.6
The regular holding of Bahá’í children’s classes should be given high priority. Indeed in many parts of the
world this is the first activity in a process of community building, which if pursued vigorously, gives rise to
the other developments.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 26, 1995. to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counselors, in
Turning Point, Selected Messages of the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 1.22
Youth will undoubtedly be the most enthusiastic supporters of the programs of your institutes. They are eager
to make a significant contribution to the progress of their communities and have shown, time and again, their
capacity to respond to the call to service. They can be trained to help shoulder the manifold responsibilities
demanded by rapid expansion and consolidation. But it is especially important for large numbers of them to
become capable teachers of Bahá’í children’s classes. As you are well aware, without the education of
children it is impossible to maintain victories from one generation to the next.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated Riḍván 1996, to the Followers of Bahá'u'lláh in [select Asian countries], in Turning
Point, Selected Messages of the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 11.12
See also:
Agencies of the Regional Bahá’í Council — Ch. 1
Insurance — Ch. 3
Declaration and Enrollment or Registration of Children and Youth — Ch. 5
Attendance and Participation — Ch. 7
Meaning of Deprivation of Administrative Rights — Ch. 10
Self-defense — Orders of Protection — Ch. 10
And also Guidelines for Protection of Children and Youth at Bahá'í Events
Junior Youth Spiritual Empowerment Program
By instilling in the junior youth a keen sense of purpose, the program has demonstrated a remarkable
capacity to transform young people, increase their commitment to spiritual and material education, empower
them to undertake social action for the improvement of their communities, resist the destructive and
prejudicial forces within their societies, and contribute to the construction of a better world.
Document prepared by the International Teaching Center, dated April 2013, “Insights from the Frontiers of Learning”
What has become especially apparent during the current Five Year Plan is the efficacy of educational
programs aimed at the spiritual empowerment of junior youth. When accompanied for three years through a
program that enhances their spiritual perception, and encouraged to enter the main sequence of institute
courses at the age of fifteen, they represent a vast reservoir of energy and talent that can be devoted to the
advancement of spiritual and material civilization.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, date December 27, 2005, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counselors, in
Turning Point, Selected Messages of the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 35.26
See also:
Revised April 2016
Agencies of the Regional Bahá’í Council — Ch. 1
Insurance — Ch. 3
And also Guidelines for Protection of Children and Youth at Bahá'í Events

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 6 – Community Life
Devotional Meetings
Whensoever a company of people shall gather in a meeting place, shall engage in glorifying God, and shall
speak with one another of the mysteries of God, beyond any doubt the breathings of the Holy Spirit will blow
gently over them, and each shall receive a share thereof.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writing of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 94
[I]t is essential to the spiritual life of the community that the friends hold regular devotional meetings in
local Bahá’í centers, where available, or elsewhere, including the homes of believers.
Message from the Universal House of Justice, dated Riḍván 1996, to the Bahá’ís of the World
There is no prescribed way for the recital of the many other [non-obligatory] Bahá'í prayers, and all are free
to use such non-obligatory prayers in gatherings or individually as they please. In this regard, Shoghi Effendi
states that ... although the friends are thus left to follow their own inclination, ... they should take the utmost
care that any manner they practise should not acquire too rigid a character, and thus develop into an
institution. This is a point which the friends should always bear in mind, lest they deviate from the clear path
indicated in the Teachings.
Universal House of Justice in “Notes” appended to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, no. 19
While the Research Department has, to date, been unable to locate any comprehensive definition of the
nature and scope of devotional meetings, we have assembled, for Mr. …’s information and study, a short
compilation entitled “Selected Guidance Concerning Devotional Gatherings”. The compilation consists of
extracts from letters written by and on behalf of the Universal House of Justice. A number of themes emerge
from perusal of the extracts contained therein. For example:
•
Care should be taken to avoid developing rigid practices and rituals (extracts 1 and 6).
•
Bahá'ís are encouraged to use the revealed prayers of Bahá'u'lláh and the Báb as well as those of
Άbdu'l-Bahá. It is permissible to have prayers and readings from the Sacred Scriptures of other
religions (extracts 2 and 7).
•
The form of programme would appear to depend in part on the setting, the occasion, and the purposes
of the gathering (extracts 6 and 7).
•
The practice of collective worship is one important ingredient in the flourishing of community life. It
also reinforces individual spiritual development (extracts 3, 4, and 5).
...it is suggested that he might find it helpful to refer to the general compilation entitled “Prayer, Meditation,
and the Devotional Attitude”, which was compiled some time ago by the Research Department, and published
by a number of Bahá'í publishing trusts. The compilation is also included in “Compilation of Compilations”
(Maryborough, Victoria: Bahá'í Publications Australia, 1991), volume II.
Memorandum from the Research Department, dated September 19, 2001, to the Universal House of Justice, “Definition and Scope of
Devotional Meetings”
See also:
Agencies of the Regional Bahá’í Council — Ch. 1
Dawn Prayers — Ch. 6
Laws between Individual and God — Ch. 10
Strengthening Marriage and Family Life — Ch. 11
Ch. 7, The Nineteen Day Feast
Ch. 8, Holy Days and Festivals
Home Visits
Even an act of service as simple as visiting the home of a new believer, whether in a village in the Pacific
Islands or in a vast metropolitan area like London, reinforces ties of fellowship that bind the members of the
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 6 – Community Life
community together. Conceived as a means for exposing believers to the fundamentals of the Faith, “home
visits” are giving rise to an array of deepening efforts, both individual and collective, in which the friends are
delving in the Writings and exploring their implications for their lives.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 27, 2005, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counselors, in
Turning Point, Selected Messages of the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 35.1
See also:
Relationship between the Assembly and Its Bahá’í Community — Ch. 1
Agencies of the Regional Bahá’í Council — Ch. 1
CONSIDERATIONS FOR DIVERSE POPULATIONS
Immigrants
Be kind to the strangers, whether come they from Turkey, Japan, Persia, Russia, China or any other country
in the world.
Help to make them feel at home; find out where they are staying, ask if you may render them any service; try
to make their lives a little happier ...
Oh, you of the Western nations, be kind to those who come from the Eastern world to sojourn among you.
Forget your conventionality when you speak with them; they are not accustomed to it. To Eastern peoples this
demeanour seems cold, unfriendly. Rather let your manner be sympathetic. Let it be seen that you are filled
with universal love. When you meet a Persian or any other stranger, speak to him as to a friend; if he seems to
be lonely try to help him, give him of your willing service; if he be sad console him, if poor succour him, if
oppressed rescue him, if in misery comfort him. In so doing you will manifest that not in words only, but in
deed and in truth, you think of all men as your brothers.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 16
The Universal House of Justice has received a report ... enclosing a list of Bahá’í refugees who have
relocated to your country. ... No doubt you will make every effort to contact these friends and to integrate
them into the Bahá’í community.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 19, 1989, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Local Spiritual Assemblies have a responsibility to greet and welcome newly arrived immigrant believers and
introduce them to their communities.
See also:
Election Eligibility — Ch. 2
Bahá'í Credentials — Ch. 5
International Membership Transfers — Ch. 5
Room for Variety — Preservation of Cultural Identity — Ch. 7
Immigration — Ch. 14
Persian Bahá'í Refugees
Challenges and Opportunities
There are challenges and opportunities presented to communities welcoming Persian Bahá'í refugees. The
Office of Persian American Affairs is ready to assist Assemblies in their efforts to lovingly and whole-heartedly
integrate those arriving from the birth place of the Faith into the life of their communities.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 6 – Community Life
Departure of Bahá'ís from Iran
The position of the House of Justice, as you are well aware, is that the decision on whether to leave Iran or
remain there rests with each individual believer who, in the light of his or her personal circumstances and the
interests of the Cause of God, should conscientiously decide the course he or she should follow. Bahá'í
institutions do not encourage Iranian believers to leave Iran, but they should place no obstacle in the way of
their doing so, if that is their choice.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated November 28, 2000, to multiple National Spiritual Assemblies
To urge that any of the friends in Iran who have withstood the trials of these recent years should now
consider abandoning the field for the ephemeral advantages of life in other lands would be a grave disservice
to the Cause of God.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 12, 2004, to Iranian believers living outside Iran
The House of Justice has also advised these friends that if they wish to emigrate, they must be prepared to
take responsibility for their own financial needs and not to expect such support from the Bahá'ís or the Bahá'í
institutions in the country in which they settle.
Response of Bahá'í Community towards Refugees
It is important to remember that the Local Assembly is not responsible for intervening between the Bahá'í
refugee(s) and resettlement agencies, even in cases where the agency may try to discharge their
responsibilities more quickly than assigned. When Bahá’í refugees ask to receive the kind of services they
require, financial or otherwise, Bahá’í communities should diligently examine the circumstances of the
individuals, and consult with Bahá’í institutions on the type of services they may be able to offer. While certain
extreme cases may require an urgent attention of the Local Assembly, the friends should not be given the
impression that the Bahá’í communities are expected to provide financial or social assistance to Bahá’í
refugees.
One approach which has proven successful in assisting with integration of refugees in Bahá'í communities is
a “buddy system” in which an existing community member or family is assigned to each new family or
individual for about three months. These friends accompany the new arrivals to Bahá'í meetings, introduce
them to other community members, and otherwise help them adjust to their new country. This system helps
refugees become quickly integrated into the Bahá'í community, helps them avoid becoming isolated, and it is
not likely to overtax any one individual as the service is shared among many people. In addition, the
community can pray for the well-being of these recently displaced fellow Bahá'ís and befriend them in other
ways as well.
See Also:
Room for Variety — Preservation of Cultural Identity — Ch. 7
Appeals for Hospitality or Assistance — Ch. 14
Helpful Publications in Persian and English
The National Spiritual Assembly provides several publications that may be of help to arriving refugees and/or
their new communities. The following Persian language materials are available by calling the Office of
Persian-American Affairs at (847) 733-3528:
•
Bahá'í Administration — An Introduction
•
Handbook for Newly Arrived Persian Speaking Believers of the American Bahá'í Community
•
Perspectives on Spiritual Integration
•
America: A Nation of Immigrants — provides basic information about the United States, from its
history to its social customs, in a clear, culturally unbiased manner. Designed to assist individuals and
organizations who work with foreign students, refugees and immigrants, the main goal is to help avoid
the misunderstandings that often arise when different cultures are brought into contact with each
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 6 – Community Life
other. The booklet features an overview of American society, a survey of American values and
traditions, and a look at everyday life.
•
Iranian Refugees in America: A Cross-Cultural Perspective — developed in response to the needs of
various organizations, communities, and individuals who interact with Iranian refugees in the United
States. The booklet gives an overview of their history and culture and hopefully eliminates, or at least
illuminates, some of the misunderstandings that can occur when different cultural values and systems
are brought into daily interaction.
Language Accommodations at Bahá'í Events
The International Teaching Center has sent us a copy of your letter of 10 October, 1982, asking about
language problems brought about by the influx of Iranians who do not understand English. It is important that
the Iranian friends be encouraged to make the effort to learn the language used in the country and become
integrated into the life and activities of the community. The Nineteen Day Feasts and other official gatherings
of the friends should be conducted in whatever is the conventional local language. This does not mean, of
course, that at such gatherings some of the readings could not be in the language of the immigrants, or that, if
these friends so wish, some classes and conferences may not be held and conducted in their own language for
their benefit. The essential thing is, as stated above, to promote the integration of the immigrants into the
community and avoid feelings of estrangement or disunity on account of language.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 10, 1982, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations,
Vol. I, no. 1006
Just as Local Assemblies may need to provide sign language or other interpreters to consult effectively in its
meetings with individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing, it may wish to do so for various community
activities, depending on whether it has members who are deaf or hard of hearing or wishes to make events
more accessible to visitors with that particular disability.
See also:
The Administrative Aspect — Language Accommodations — Ch. 7
Minorities
Bearing in mind the extreme desirability of having the minority elements participate and share responsibility
in the conduct of Bahá’í activity, it should be the duty of every Bahá’í community so to arrange its affairs that
in cases where individuals belonging to the divers minority elements within it are already qualified and fulfill
the necessary requirements, Bahá’í representative institutions, be they Assemblies, conventions, conferences,
or committees, may have represented on them as many of these divers elements, racial or otherwise, as
possible. The adoption of such a course, and faithful adherence to it, would not only be a source of inspiration
and encouragement to those elements that are numerically small and inadequately represented, but would
demonstrate to the world at large the universality and representative character of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh, and
the freedom of His followers from the taint of those prejudices which have already wrought such havoc in the
domestic affairs, as well as the foreign relationships, of the nations.
Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, pp. 35–36
See also:
Representation of Minorities Desirable — Ch. 2
Voting – Tie Votes – Ch.2
Minority Representation Extremely Desirable — Ch. 3
People with Disabilities
[T]he prejudice and discrimination that disabled people suffer is the product of the more general human
tendency to label as “inferior” those who are somehow different. But the ostracism that disabled persons
sometimes experience can even be more intense, because it is founded on fear — fear on the part of the
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 6 – Community Life
ostracizer that he, too, may someday become the victim of disability. The only way to eradicate this fear is to
educate every member of society to see disability for what it really is — a mental or physical condition that
may make everyday life more challenging, but that cannot affect the disabled person’s soul, spirit, creativity,
imagination or determination — in short, some of the most valuable aspects of life. At the same time, such an
appreciation will enable individuals to see through the outward handicaps of disabled persons, to their inner
reality.
… all sectors of society must work to integrate disabled persons into the life of society and give them equal
opportunities in schools, the workplace and the community at large. Society will be the loser if it fails to
benefit from the talents of disabled persons. Their resolute determination to overcome problems that most of
us will never be forced to deal with should be a shining torch for us all… Indeed, we all have much to learn
from the disabled persons. Theirs is often an example worthy of emulation.
Statement by the Bahá'í International Community, dated August 1988, “Human Rights and Disability: Statement to the 40th United
Nations Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities”
As part of promoting a change of attitude concerning disabilities, Assemblies will want to make as many
activities as possible accessible to people who experience disabilities of one sort or another.
See also:
Special Issues — People with Physical Handicaps Not Ineligible — Ch. 2
Participation — Interpreters — Ch. 4
The Administrative Aspect — Language Accommodations — Ch. 7
Bahá'í Service for the Blind
The Bahá'í Service for the Blind was established over sixty years ago and is a committee of the National
Spiritual Assembly of the United States. Its purpose is to provide literature of the Faith in various media that
can be used by those individuals who are unable to use standard print. To this end, Bahá’í Service for the
Blind produces materials in Braille, large print, and audio recordings. Among services available are recordings
of The American Bahá'í and an email newsletter.
Copies of books are produced on a per order basis. A lack of storage space and money prevents the Service
from maintaining an inventory of books from which to fill orders. The Service tries to fill orders as quickly as
possible but a four-week turnaround time is average. The cost of these special materials can often be quite
high, especially in Braille, when compared to the print editions. The prices charged by the Service are kept as
low as possible with no attempt to produce a profit. A lending library of materials in Braille and on cassette
tape is also maintained.
Work for the Service is done exclusively by volunteers. There are no paid staff.
Before ordering, please note:
•
The Service's special materials, such as cassette tapes, are available only to the visually impaired or
to those whose handicap prevents them from using normal printed material.
•
When ordering Braille items for another individual, please be sure that the person does read Braille.
Most blind persons do not read Braille.
More information about the Bahá'í Service for the Blind is available from:
Bahá'í Service for the Blind
P.O. Box 709
Deming, NM 88031
Phone: (847) 906-6037
Email: bahaiservice@aol.com.
Website: http://www.bahaiservicefortheblind.org/
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 6 – Community Life
PIONEERING AND TRAVEL TEACHING
INTERNATIONAL PIONEERING AND TRAVEL TEACHING
They that have forsaken their country for the purpose of teaching Our Cause — these shall the Faithful Spirit
strengthen through its power. A company of Our chosen angels shall go forth with them, as bidden by Him
Who is the Almighty, the All-Wise. How great the blessedness that awaiteth him that hath attained the honor
of serving the Almighty! By My life! No act, however great, can compare with it, except such deeds as have
been ordained by God, the All-Powerful, the Most Mighty. Such a service is, indeed, the prince of all goodly
deeds, and the ornament of every goodly act. Thus hath it been ordained by Him Who is the Sovereign
Revealer, the Ancient of Days.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 335
The duties of teaching and pioneering are enjoined upon all believers.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 2, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1937
The clearly defined plans now in place multiply teaching opportunities for those wishing to serve the Faith in
the international field as short- or long-term pioneers. Most of the needs of the clusters in a given country
should increasingly be met by homefront pioneers as the Plan unfolds. But, given the sheer number of
geographic areas which require systematic attention in order to advance, international pioneers will have a
notable role to play. Their participation will be especially effective in the programmes of growth spreading
throughout the world if they have developed abilities to foster the institute process. Beyond this, international
pioneers and traveling teachers can contribute significantly to the work of the Faith in such spheres of activity
as administration, proclamation, and social and economic development. ...
At this important juncture in the development of the Faith, when the systematization of the teaching work is
gaining momentum in all parts of the globe and integrating forces are propelling society towards Bahá'u'lláh's
design, every faithful servant of the Cause must be galvanized by the vision of splendid accomplishments
ahead. We call upon you to consider your circumstances, examine the conditions of various countries,
determine where you can best serve the needs of the Faith, and take resolute action. Let those who long to
partake of the joy of such meritorious service go forth well assured that our prayers will accompany them, and
fully expectant of Divine confirmations.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 10, 2002, to the Bahá'ís of the World, in Turning Point, Selected Messages
from the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 28.2-28.4
Beyond responding to the specific appeals for homefront and international pioneers that are issued from time
to time by the institutions, the friends are of course welcome to arise at any time and from any place to settle
in any area where they feel they can best contribute to the advancement of the Cause. Even so, their endeavors
would yield greater effect if, drawing on the advice of institutions, they were to direct their efforts to clusters
— indeed villages and neighbourhoods within clusters — that are the focus of systematic attention.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 23, 2011, to the Bahá'ís of the World
In the next five years, the successful prosecution of the Plan will require the services of several thousand
consecrated souls who, spurred on by their love for the Blessed Beauty, will forsake their homes to settle in
villages, towns and cities in order to raise to 5,000 the number of clusters with programmes of growth.
National Spiritual Assemblies, in close collaboration with Continental Counsellors and Continental
Pioneering Committees, will continue to play a crucial role in expanding the awareness of the believers about
the critical needs of the Cause and in assisting with the settlement of pioneers in designated clusters. They
will not, however, be asked to establish numerical goals at the outset, as was the practice in the past, for those
to be dispatched beyond their borders during the coming five years. Rather, we will regularly call the attention
of selected National Assemblies in different parts of the world to specific urgent pioneer needs, identified by
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 6 – Community Life
the International Teaching Centre in the course of its ongoing endeavours to follow the progress of the Faith
around the globe. It is hoped that National Assemblies will be able to quickly send pioneers who respond to
that particular appeal.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 23, 2011, to the Bahá'ís of the World
Contacting the Office of International Pioneering
For information on any type of international service, including travel teaching, short- or long-term pioneering
and all international Bahá'í Youth Year of Service, contact the Office of International Pioneering at the Bahá’í
National Center by phone, (847) 733-3511, fax, (847) 733-3509 or email pioneer@usbnc.org.
See also:
Correspondence — Communicating Outside Continental United States — Ch. 4
Credentials for American Bahá'ís Planning to Travel Abroad — Ch. 5
Preparation for International Service
A number of important steps are involved in preparing for international service. Those interested in serving in
the pioneering field should, as soon as possible, contact the Office of International Pioneering for guidance.
More details are available on the national Bahá’í community website at american.bahai.us under International
Pioneering Resources. Information is available on the needs, service opportunities, steps to service,
necessary forms, Pioneer Orientation Program, and other useful resources.
Persons Counted as International Pioneers or Traveling Teachers
In His daily activities and contacts, in all his journeys, whether for business or otherwise, on his holidays and
outings, and on any mission he may be called to undertake, every bearer of the Message of Bahá'u'lláh should
consider it not only an obligation but a privilege to scatter far and wide the seeds of his Faith, and to rest
content in the abiding knowledge that whatever be the immediate response to that message, and however
inadequate the vehicle that conveyed it, the power of its Author will, as He sees fit, enable those seeds to
germinate, and in circumstances which no one can foresee enrich the harvest which the labor of His followers
will gather.
Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, p. 53
Bahá'ís living or traveling internationally may be counted as international pioneers or traveling teachers, if
they make an effort to serve the Faith during the time they are outside the United States. This includes
persons going abroad for business or pleasure, to visit relatives or friends overseas, to attend a Bahá’í school
or conference in another country, to study abroad, to assist at a Bahá’í project, school, center, or House of
Worship in another country, to be involved in the institute process or to live or work in another country.
In general, any Bahá'í serving for six months to two years is considered a short-term pioneer and those who
serve more than two years are long-term pioneers. Any service less than six months is considered a traveling
teaching service. International youth service is considered pioneering, as is studying outside the United
States, if the person wishes to serve the Faith while studying. Please contact the Office of International
Pioneering for additional clarification.
Youth Pioneers
Bahá'í youth have always been encouraged to arise and fill teaching and service goals all over the world and
every year the Office of International Pioneering receives many requests for youth to teach and serve in
different programs and projects in countries throughout the world. Youth are encouraged to attend Pioneer
Orientation Programs.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 6 – Community Life
Traveling to Sensitive Countries
Friends who wish to travel to a sensitive country for purposes such as visiting families, job re-location,
continuing education, or settling as pioneers are asked to contact the Office of International Pioneering to
obtain the latest guidance about traveling to such countries. At that time they will receive the caveat regarding
the country. Due to global instabilities and to the sensitive nature of the Faith in such countries, a list cannot
be provided here. Friends need to contact the office at least three months in advance to allow appropriate
correspondence exchanges to take place between the Office of Pioneering and the Bahá’ís in the destination
country.
FUNDING SUPPORT FOR PIONEERS
Obtaining Funding Support for Pioneering
Should they find it impossible to take advantage of so rare and sacred a privilege, let them, mindful of the
words of Bahá’u’lláh, determine, each according to the means at his or her disposal, to appoint a deputy who,
on that believer’s behalf, will arise and carry out so noble an enterprise. “Center your energies,” are
Bahá’u’lláh’s words, “in the propagation of the Faith of God. Whoso is worthy of so high a calling, let him
arise and promote it. Whoso is unable, it is his duty to appoint him who will, in his stead, proclaim this
Revelation, whose power hath caused the foundations of the mightiest structures to quake, every mountain to
be crushed into dust, and every soul to be dumbfounded.”
Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, pp. 55–56
Funds offered for deputization are not to be considered as the same, or in place of, that which is given in
adherence to the obligation to support all of the Bahá’í Funds.
Deputization of International Pioneers in General
Individuals or Local Assemblies may send contributions to the National Bahá’í Fund earmarked for the U.S.
International Pioneering Deputization Fund. The Office of International Pioneering reviews financial requests
from prospective pioneers to confirm documentation, proof of need, and allocates the funds on a case-by-
case basis.
Bahá'ís who wish to contribute to the general deputization of international pioneers should make their checks
out to “Bahá'í National Fund” and note both their own Bahá'í identification number and the words “US
International Pioneering Deputization” on the check. However, they may not earmark funds for specific
individuals.
Checks should be mailed to the Office of the Treasurer. Those wishing to contribute through automatic
payments may simply write “U.S. International Pioneering Deputization” on the line that says “Other” on the
Automatic Contribution System form.
Sponsorship of Individual International Pioneers
The Local Assembly may set up a humanitarian fund to assist members of its community to receive funds
based on criteria established by the Assembly. Reasons for establishing the fund might be assisting with
pioneering, job loss expenses, covering medical expenses, etc. Contributions to the fund may not be
earmarked for a specific individual, but rather must be a general contribution to that specific fund. The
Assembly may allocate based on its established criteria and contributions are tax deductible.
An individual can contribute funds to another individual as a gift and this gift is not tax deductible.
Prospective pioneers are welcome to organize their own fundraising events. The Local Assembly can assist
by offering suggestions and prayers. However, the Assembly is discouraged from supplying mail lists and
email addresses and from allowing the use of its name or endorsement to support the fundraising. It is
inappropriate for a Local Assembly to solicit funds from individuals or other Assemblies or to accept donations
for the purpose of assisting a prospective pioneer in their pioneering effort. An Assembly may encourage its
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 6 – Community Life
community as well as neighboring communities to pray for the success of the pioneer’s effort, but soliciting,
fundraising, and accepting funds on their behalf is inappropriate.
RETURNING INTERNATIONAL PIONEERS
Pioneers returning to the United States must transfer their membership back into the country. If the pioneer
relocates into a community with a Local Assembly, the Secretary can begin the transfer process through
eMembership2. If he or she relocates into a community with no Local Assembly, the individual should contact
the Office of International Pioneering to begin the transfer process. Membership will be pending until
confirming credentials are received from the departure country.
Assemblies are urged to utilize the human resource capacity of the returned pioneers by immediately
involving them in the core activities and in providing additional assistance to the work of the Plan.
The Assembly may wish to offer the returning pioneer the opportunity to utilize his or her pioneering
experience by serving the community as a Pioneer Resource Person and by putting to work, in the cluster,
any institute experience acquired through pioneering.
For additional insight, the Assembly may wish to review a letter, which is posted on the International
Pioneering Resource page, addressing the concerns of returning pioneers. You may also contact the Office of
International Pioneering for a copy of the letter.
See also:
All American Bahá'ís Returning from Extended Stay Abroad — Ch. 5
Transfer into the United States — Ch. 5
HOMEFRONT PIONEERING AND TRAVEL TEACHING
Bahá'ís interested in homefront pioneering or travel teaching should contact their Regional Bahá'í Council for
information and guidance.
Deputization of Homefront Pioneers
One can deputize a person serving as a homefront pioneer, including those serving as a teacher for an
institute, who are, of course, teachers of teachers.
Contributions for such deputization should be made to the National Bahá’í Fund earmarked for deputization in
the region where they wish the funds to be utilized. The funds will then be administered and channeled
appropriately by the Regional Bahá’í Councils who are in the best position to assess and address the needs
of their region.
NATIONAL BAHÁ'Í SCHOOLS
The Bahá'í Summer Schools were originated in America to meet the requirements of the friends. They have
been adapted by other Bahá'í Communities the world-over, but there is no reason why they should be called
“summer schools.”
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated December 26, 1941 to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, no. 80
How wonderful it would be if all the friends could arrange to spend at least a few days in one of these
summer schools and take an active part in their development. These centers could attract many souls if
properly arranged and made interesting; those non-Bahá'ís who visit them will then have some time to get into
the spirit of the place and make a study of the Cause ... We constantly receive letters from people who become
Bahá'ís by visiting one of these centers and obtaining the Message there.
Shoghi Effendi, Directives from the Guardian, p. 67
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 6 – Community Life
The Guardian would, therefore, urge all the believers to persevere in their efforts for raising the standard,
both intellectual and spiritual, of their Summer School and to heighten its prestige in the eyes of the friends,
and of the general non-Bahá'í public outside. The institution of the Summer School constitutes a vital and
inseparable part of any teaching campaign, and as such ought to be given the full importance it deserves in the
teaching plans and activities of the believers. It should be organized in such a way as to attract the attention of
the non-believers to the Cause and thus become an effective medium for teaching.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 17, 1936, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, no. 72
National winter and summer schools, as well as deepening classes at the local level, are an integral aspect of
community life in which the friends come together to deepen their knowledge of the Faith. Institutes were
created as an instrument to develop the human resources necessary for the expansion and consolidation of the
Faith. These two elements are complementary, and benefit from each other as they both flourish.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 18, 2001 to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Turning Point,
Selected Messages of the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 44.40
To read the writings of the Faith and to strive to obtain a more adequate understanding of the significance of
Bahá’u’lláh’s stupendous Revelation are obligations laid on every one of His followers. All are enjoined to
delve into the ocean of His Revelation and to partake, in keeping with their capacities and inclinations, of the
pearls of wisdom that lie therein. In this light, local deepening classes, winter and summer schools, and
specially arranged gatherings in which individual believers knowledgeable in the writings were able to share
with others insights into specific subjects emerged naturally as prominent features of Bahá’í life. Just as the
habit of daily reading will remain an integral part of Bahá’í identity, so will these forms of study continue to
hold a place in the collective life of the community. But understanding the implications of the Revelation,
both in terms of individual growth and social progress, increases manifold when study and service are joined
and carried out concurrently. There, in the field of service, knowledge is tested, questions arise out of practice,
and new levels of understanding are achieved. In the system of distance education that has now been
established in country after country — the principal elements of which include the study circle, the tutor and
the curriculum of the Ruhi Institute — the worldwide Bahá’í community has acquired the capacity to enable
thousands, nay millions, to study the writings in small groups with the explicit purpose of translating the
Bahá’í teachings into reality, carrying the work of the Faith forward into its next stage: sustained large-scale
expansion and consolidation.
Message from the Universal House of Justice, dated Ridván 2010, to the Bahá’ís of the World
PERMANENT NATIONAL BAHÁ’Í SCHOOLS
The National Spiritual Assembly oversees three permanent Bahá'í schools, which operate year round: Bosch
Bahá'í School in Santa Cruz, California, Green Acre Bahá'í School in Eliot, Maine, and Louhelen Bahá'í
School in Davison, Michigan. These schools offer capacity–building programs for families and individuals that
support current guidance, expand knowledge and understanding of the Bahá'í Writings, strengthen adherence
to Bahá'í laws, improve consultation skills, and assist participants of all ages to become spiritually distinctive
human beings, and active community members. Through participatory formats including community building,
intergenerational collaboration, workshops, and integration of the arts, participants gain skills to apply Bahá’í
teachings to their daily lives.
Visit www.bahai.us/centers-of-learning for additional information and specific programs currently available.
SEASONAL BAHÁ’Í SCHOOLS
In locations throughout the United States, over thirty family-oriented, weekend to week-long summer and
winter school sessions, which serve to deepen the friends’ knowledge and understanding of the essentials of
the Faith and enable them to diffuse the teachings to the world, are held each year in a variety of settings,
including college campuses, campgrounds, and retreat centers.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 6 – Community Life
For a full listing of schools by state, with links to each school’s website, as well as a chronological schedule of
upcoming sessions across the country, visit www.bahai.us/bahai-centers-of-learning.
Please contact the school committee coordinator in the Office of Education and Schools at
schoolcommittees@usbnc.org or (603) 770-1851 for more information on these seasonal Bahá'í schools
sponsored by the National Spiritual Assembly.
Revised April 2016

7. THE NINETEEN DAY FEAST .......................................................................................................................................2
CALENDAR OF BAHÁ’Í MONTHS AND NINETEEN DAY FEASTS ........................................................................2
FEAST FOR MONTH OF BAHÁ SEPARATE FROM NAW-RÚZ CELEBRATION ...................................................3
CHARACTERISTICS OF FEAST .................................................................................................................................3
PURPOSE AND SIGNIFICANCE OF FEAST ..........................................................................................................3
THREE DISTINCT PARTS .......................................................................................................................................4
Historical Evolution ...............................................................................................................................................4
ROOM FOR VARIETY ..............................................................................................................................................4
Preservation of Cultural Identity ...........................................................................................................................5
EXPRESSION OF COMMUNITY LIFE .....................................................................................................................5
DYNAMIC LINK TO ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER .....................................................................................................6
PREPARATION FOR FEAST .......................................................................................................................................6
SPIRIT OF HOSPITALITY ........................................................................................................................................7
TIME AND PLACE OF NINETEEN DAY FEAST .........................................................................................................7
WHEN TO HOLD FEAST .........................................................................................................................................7
Date ......................................................................................................................................................................7
Time ......................................................................................................................................................................8
WHERE TO HOLD FEAST .......................................................................................................................................9
Civil Area ...............................................................................................................................................................9
Indoors or Outdoors ..............................................................................................................................................9
Decentralization of Feasts in Large Communities ................................................................................................9
Holding of Functions in Churches or Other Religious Buildings ........................................................................ 10
ORGANIZATION OF FEAST ..................................................................................................................................... 10
THE DEVOTIONAL ASPECT OF FEAST ............................................................................................................... 11
THE ADMINISTRATIVE ASPECT .......................................................................................................................... 12
Recommendations at Feast ............................................................................................................................... 13
Recording Recommendations ....................................................................................................................... 13
Deciding on What Is a Recommendation or Suggestion ............................................................................... 13
Who May Vote at Feast ..................................................................................................................................... 13
Chairing the Feast ............................................................................................................................................. 14
Language Accommodations .............................................................................................................................. 14
Feasts in Persian ........................................................................................................................................... 15
THE SOCIAL ASPECT .......................................................................................................................................... 16
ATTENDANCE AND PARTICIPATION...................................................................................................................... 16
ATTENDANCE IS ENCOURAGED ....................................................................................................................... 16
Children of Bahá’í Parents ................................................................................................................................. 17
Bahá'í Children of Non-Bahá’í Parents .............................................................................................................. 17
Behavior of Children .......................................................................................................................................... 17
Bahá'í Visitors .................................................................................................................................................... 18
WHO MAY NOT ATTEND NINETEEN DAY FEASTS ............................................................................................ 18
Believers Deprived of Voting Rights .................................................................................................................. 18
Bahá'ís Awaiting Verification of or without Current Credentials ......................................................................... 19
Friends of the Faith and other Non-Bahá'ís ....................................................................................................... 19
MUSIC ................................................................................................................................................................... 20
Devotional Movement or Dance ........................................................................................................................ 21
OBSERVANCE OF FEAST BY GROUPS AND ISOLATED BELIEVERS ............................................................. 21
PRACTICES DISCOURAGED .................................................................................................................................. 21
SALE OF ITEMS DURING FEAST ........................................................................................................................ 21
SMOKING AT FEAST ............................................................................................................................................ 21
FEASTS OTHER THAN NINETEEN DAY FEASTS ................................................................................................. 22
JOINT FEASTS ...................................................................................................................................................... 22
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
7. THE NINETEEN DAY FEAST
CALENDAR OF BAHÁ’Í MONTHS AND NINETEEN DAY FEASTS
In the Bahá'í calendar the first month of the year and the first day of each month are given the name "Bahá".
The day of Bahá of the month of Bahá is thus the Bahá'í New Year, Naw-Rúz, which was ordained by the Báb
as a festival and is here confirmed by Bahá'u'lláh. ...
In addition to the seven Holy Days ordained in these passages of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the anniversary of the
Martyrdom of the Báb was also commemorated as a Holy Day in the lifetime of Bahá'u'lláh and, as a
corollary to this, Άbdu'l-Bahá added the observance of the Ascension of Bahá'u'lláh, making nine Holy Days
in all. Two other anniversaries which are observed, but on which work is not suspended, are the Day of the
Covenant and the anniversary of the Passing of Άbdu'l-Bahá.
Universal House of Justice in “Notes” appended to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, no. 139
The Bahá’í day ends and a new one begins at sunset; consequently the day on which a Feast or Holy Day is
observed begins at sunset of the day before the Gregorian dates given below.
Bahá’í Dates
Gregorian Equivalent
Feast Days
In a year when Naw-Rúz
is the same as 20 March
In a year when Naw-Rúz
is the same as 21 March
Bahá (Splendour)
1 Bahá
20 March
21 March
Jalál (Glory)
1 Jalál
8 April
9 April
Jamál (Beauty)
1 Jamál
27 April
28 April
‘Azamat (Grandeur)
1 ‘Azamat
16 May
17 May
Núr (Light)
1 Núr
4 June
5 June
Rahmat (Mercy)
1 Rahmat
23 June
24 June
Kalimát (Words)
1 Kalimát
12 July
13 July
Kamál (Perfection)
1 Kamál
31 July
1 August
Asmá’ (Names)
1 Asmá’
19 August
20 August
‘Izzat (Might)
1 ‘Izzat
7 September
8 September
Mashíyyát (Will)
1 Mashiyyát
26 September
27 September
‘Ilm (Knowledge)
1 ‘Ilm
15 October
16 October
Qudrat (Power)
1 Qudrat
3 November
4 November
Qawl (Speech)
1 Qawl
22 November
23 November
Masá’il (Questions)
1 Masá’il
11 December
12 December
Sharaf (Honour)
1 Sharaf
30 December
31 December
Sultán (Sovereignty)
1 Sultán
18 January
19 January
Mulk (Dominion)
1 Mulk
6 February
7 February
‘Alá (Loftiness)
1 ‘Alá’
(see below)
(see below)
The Fast
The month of fasting begins when Ayyám-i-Há ends.
The dates for Ayyám-i-Há are given in chapter 8.
The month of ‘Alá
1-19 ‘Alá’
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
FEAST FOR MONTH OF BAHÁ SEPARATE FROM NAW-RÚZ CELEBRATION
The Naw-Rúz Feast should be held … before sunset [on the Naw-Rúz day] and has nothing to do with the
19-day Feast. The 19-day Feast is administrative in function whereas the Naw-Rúz is our New Year, a Feast of
hospitality and rejoicing.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Directives from the Guardian, no. 75
CHARACTERISTICS OF FEAST
PURPOSE AND SIGNIFICANCE OF FEAST
Verily, it is enjoined upon you to offer a feast, once in every month, though only water be served; for God
hath purposed to bind hearts together, albeit through both earthly and heavenly means.
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas para 57
This Feast was established by His Highness the Báb, to occur once in nineteen days. Likewise, the Blessed
Perfection hath commanded, encouraged and reiterated it. Therefore, it hath the utmost importance.
Undoubtedly you must give the greatest attention to this establishment and raise it to the highest point of
importance, so that it may become continual and constant. The believers of God must assemble and associate
with each other in the utmost love, joy and fragrance. They must conduct themselves (in these Feasts) with
the greatest dignity and consideration, chant divine verses, peruse instructive articles, read the Tablets of
Άbdu'l-Bahá, encourage and inspire each other with love for the whole human race, invoke God with perfect
joy and fragrance, sing the verses, glorifications and praises of the Self-subsistent Lord and deliver eloquent
speeches. The owner of the house must personally serve the beloved ones. He must seek after the comfort of
all and with the utmost humility he must show forth kindness to every one. If the Feast is arranged in this
manner and in the way mentioned, that supper is the “Lord’s supper,” for the result is the same result and the
effect is the same effect.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, in Principles of Bahá'í Administration, p. 16
The primary intent is to kindle these stirrings of the spirit, but at the same time it follows quite naturally that
those present should partake of food, so that the world of the body may mirror the spirit’s world, and flesh
take on the qualities of soul; and just as the spiritual delights are here in profusion, so too the material
delights.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Άbdu'l-Bahá, pp. 90–91
In brief, this is my hope: that the Nineteen Day Feast become the cause of great spiritual solidarity between
the friends, that it may bring believers into the bond of unity, and we will then be so united together that love
and wisdom will spread from this center to all parts. This Feast is a divine Feast. It is a Lord’s supper. It
attracts confirmation of God like a magnet. It is the cause of the enlightenment of hearts.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, quoted in a talk given at a Nineteen Day Feast in London, England, on December 29, 1912, in Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, no. 934
By convening a gathering for worship at which adults and children of any background are welcome, the spirit
of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár is evoked in any locality. The enhancement of the devotional character of a
community also has an effect on the Nineteen Day Feast and can be felt at other times when the friends come
together.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, Dated December 29, 2015, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh encompasses all units of human society; integrates the spiritual,
administrative and social processes of life; and canalizes human expression in its varied forms towards the
construction of a new civilization. The Nineteen Day Feast embraces all these aspects at the very base of
society. Functioning in the village, the town, the city, it is an institution of which all the people of Bahá are
members. It is intended to promote unity, ensure progress, and foster joy.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 27, 1989, to the followers of Bahá’u’lláh, in Compilation of Compilations,
Vol. I, p. 419
THREE DISTINCT PARTS
“If this feast be held in the proper fashion,” Άbdu'l-Bahá states, “the friends will, once in nineteen days, find
themselves spiritually restored, and endued with a power that is not of this world.” To ensure this glorious
outcome the concept of the Feast must be adequately understood by all the friends. The Feast is known to
have three distinct but related parts: the devotional, the administrative, and the social. The first entails the
recitation of prayers and reading from the Holy Texts. The second is a general meeting where the Local
Spiritual Assembly reports its activities, plans and problems to the community, shares news and messages
from the World Centre and the National Assembly, and receives the thoughts and recommendations of the
friends through a process of consultation. The third involves the partaking of refreshments and engaging in
other activities meant to foster fellowship in a culturally determined diversity of forms which do not violate
principles of the Faith or the essential character of the Feast.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 27, 1989, to the followers of Bahá’u’lláh, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, p. 419
Historical Evolution
In the Arabic Bayán the Báb called upon His followers to gather together once every nineteen days to show
hospitality and fellowship. Bahá’u’lláh confirms this in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas and notes the unifying role of such
occasions. This injunction has become the basis for the holding of monthly Bahá’í festivities and as such
constitutes the ordination of the Nineteen Day Feast.
It is notable that the concept of the Feast evolved in stages in relation to the development of the Faith. At its
earliest stage in Iran, the individual friends, in response to Bahá’u’lláh’s injunctions, hosted gatherings in their
homes to show hospitality once every nineteen days and derived inspiration from the reading and discussion
of the Teachings. As the community grew, Άbdu'l-Bahá delineated and emphasized the devotional and social
character of the event. After the establishment of Local Spiritual Assemblies, Shoghi Effendi introduced the
administrative portion and acquainted the community with the idea of the Nineteen Day Feast as an
institution. It was as if a symphony, in three movements, had now been completed.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 27, 1989, to the followers of Bahá’u’lláh, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, p. 420
ROOM FOR VARIETY
Even though the observance of the Feast requires strict adherence to the threefold aspects in the sequence in
which they have been defined, there is much room for variety in the total experience. For example, music may
be introduced at various stages, including the devotional portion; Άbdu'l-Bahá recommends that eloquent,
uplifting talks be given; originality and variety in expressions of hospitality are possible; the quality and range
of the consultation are critical to the spirit of the occasion. The effects of different cultures in all these
respects are welcome factors which can lend the Feast a salutary diversity, representative of the unique
characteristics of the various societies in which it is held, and therefore conducive to the upliftment and
enjoyment of its participants.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 27, 1989, to the followers of Bahá’u’lláh, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, p. 419
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
Preservation of Cultural Identity
We have considered your letter of March 11, 1970 concerning the difficulties you are experiencing in getting
the Indian believers on reservations to hold regular Nineteen Day Feasts.
In applying instructions about Nineteen Day Feasts, as well as other matters of administration, to indigenous
believers it is important that the process of weaning them away from the old forms should be accomplished
gradually so as not to destroy their spirit, and your Assembly should not be too rigid in these matters.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 3, 1970, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The Compilation
of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 1005
Assemblies will want to be watchful that the incorporation of such elements does not lead to a degeneration
of the Feast as a uniquely Bahá'í institution and, particularly, that no objectionable customs and practices
begin to creep into its observance.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated Aug 28, 1989, to all National Spiritual Assemblies
See also:
Oneness and Wholeness — Ch. 6
Considerations for Diverse Populations – Ch. 6
Non-Bahá'í Cultural and Religious Events — Preserving Inherited Cultural Identities — Ch. 14
EXPRESSION OF COMMUNITY LIFE
But it is not only in the sense of its gradual unfoldment as an institution that the evolution of the Feast must
be regarded; there is a broader context yet. The Feast may well be seen in its unique combination of modes as
the culmination of a great historic process in which primary elements of community life — acts of worship, of
festivity and other forms of togetherness — over vast stretches of time have achieved a glorious convergence.
The Nineteen Day Feast represents the new stage in this enlightened age to which the basic expression of
community life has evolved. Shoghi Effendi has described it as the foundation of the new World Order, and in
a letter written on his behalf, it is referred to as constituting “a vital medium for maintaining close and
continued contact between the believers themselves, and also between them and the body of their elected
representatives in the local community.”
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated Aug 28, 1989, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in The
Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, p. 420
Everywhere the devotional portion of the Feast is enriched by the sense of reverence cultivated through
personal prayer and regular devotional gatherings. The administrative portion is animated by reports on the
progress of the Cause, as well as insights contributed by eager believers drawn from diverse populations, both
newly enrolled and long-standing, engaged in Bahá’í activity. The social portion transcends polite formalities,
become the joyous reunion of ardent lovers, of tested companions united in a common purpose, whose
conversations are elevated by spiritual themes.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 17, 2009, to National Spiritual Assemblies
Everyone is aware that participation in the Nineteen Day Feast and observance of the Holy Days are
obligations not to be forgotten, and everyone recognizes the importance of devotional gatherings and the
quality of the devotional life of the community. … Warm friendships and ongoing conversations among the
families in neighbourhoods and villages have also led to greater awareness of local needs.  Reflection
meetings, junior youth groups, or neighbourhood Nineteen Day Feasts provide spaces for the community to
begin to consider how to apply the teachings of the Faith “to improve some aspect of the social or economic
life of a population, however modestly.”
International Teaching Centre, quoted in Insights from the Frontiers of Learning, dated April, 2013, p. 1 and 7
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
It [the Spiritual Assembly] sees to it that gatherings for the Nineteen Day Feast, Holy Day commemorations,
and Bahá’í elections become opportunities to reinforce the high ideals of the community, strengthen its shared
sense of commitment, and fortify its spiritual character.  As numbers in the community grow larger, the
Assembly gives thought to when it could be beneficial to decentralize such meetings so as to facilitate ever-
greater participation on these important occasions.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 29, 2015 to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
Attendance at gatherings to mark the Nineteen Day Feast and Bahá’í Holy Days is being fostered by Local
Spiritual Assemblies. Such advances are the more visible signs of a much finer development: the gradual
spread, within a population, of a pattern of community life based on Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 29, 2015 to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
DYNAMIC LINK TO ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER
Moreover, because of the opportunity which it provides for conveying messages from the national and
international levels of the administration and also for communicating the recommendations of the friends to
those levels, the Feast becomes a link that connects the local community in a dynamic relationship with the
entire structure of the Administrative Order. But considered in its local sphere alone there is much to thrill and
amaze the heart. Here it links the individual to the collective processes by which a society is built or restored.
Here, for instance, the Feast is an arena of democracy at the very root of society, where the Local Spiritual
Assembly and the members of the community meet on common ground, where individuals are free to offer
their gifts of thought, whether as new ideas or constructive criticism, to the building processes of an
advancing civilization. Thus it can be seen that aside from its spiritual significance, this common institution of
the people combines an array of elemental social disciplines which educate its participants in the essentials of
responsible citizenship.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 27, 1989, to the followers of Bahá’u’lláh, in The Compilation
of Compilations, Vol. I, p. 420
PREPARATION FOR FEAST
If the Feast is to be properly experienced, beyond an understanding of the concept must also be the
preparation of it and the preparation for it. Although the Local Spiritual Assembly is administratively
responsible for the conduct of the Feast, it often calls upon an individual or a group of individuals to make
preparations— a practice which is consonant with the spirit of hospitality so vital to the occasion. Such
individuals can act as hosts and are sometimes concerned with the selection of the prayers and readings for
the devotional portion; they may also attend to the social portion. In small communities the aspect of personal
hospitality is easy to carry out, but in large communities the Local Spiritual Assemblies, while retaining the
concept of hospitality, may find it necessary to devise other measures.
Important aspects of the preparation of the Feast include the proper selection of readings, the assignment, in
advance, of good readers, and a sense of decorum both in the presentation and the reception of the devotional
program. Attention to the environment in which the Feast is to be held, whether indoors or outdoors, greatly
influences the experience. Cleanliness, arrangement of the space in practical and decorative ways — all play a
significant part. Punctuality is also a measure of good preparation.
To a very large extent, the success of the Feast depends on the quality of the preparation and participation of
the individual. The beloved Master offers the following advice: “Give ye great weight to the Nineteen Day
gatherings, so that on these occasions the beloved of the Lord and the handmaids of the Merciful may turn
their faces toward the Kingdom, chant the communes, beseech God’s help, become joyfully enamoured each
of the other, and grow in purity and holiness, and in the fear of God, and in the resistance to passion and self.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
Thus will they separate themselves from this elemental world, and immerse themselves in the ardours of the
spirit.”
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 27, 1989, to the followers of Bahá’u’lláh, in The Compilation
of Compilations, Vol. I, p. 421
SPIRIT OF HOSPITALITY
In absorbing such advice, it is illuminating indeed to view the Nineteen Day Feast in the context in which it
was conceived. It is ordained in the “Kitáb-i-Aqdas” in these words: “Verily, it is enjoined upon you to offer a
feast, once in every month, though only water be served; for God hath purposed to bind hearts together, albeit
through both earthly and heavenly means.” It is clear, then, that the Feast is rooted in hospitality, with all its
implications of friendliness, courtesy, service, generosity and conviviality. The very idea of hospitality as the
sustaining spirit of so significant an institution introduces a revolutionary new attitude to the conduct of
human affairs at all levels, an attitude which is critical to that world unity which the Central Figures of our
Faith labored so long and suffered so much cruelty to bring into being. It is in this divine festival that the
foundation is laid for the realization of so unprecedented a reality.
That you may all attain the high mark set for the Feast as a “bringer of joy,” the “groundwork of agreement
and unity,” the “key to affection and fellowship,” will remain an object of our ardent supplications at the Holy
Threshold.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 27, 1989, to the followers of Bahá’u’lláh, in The Compilation
of Compilations, Vol. I, p. 422
O ye loyal servants of the Ancient Beauty: In every cycle and Dispensation, the Feast hath been favored and
loved, and the spreading of a table for the lovers of God hath been considered a praiseworthy act. This is
especially the case today, in this Dispensation beyond compare, this most generous of ages, when it is highly
acclaimed, for it is truly accounted among such gatherings as are held to worship and glorify God. Here the
holy verses, the heavenly odes and laudations are intoned, and the heart is quickened, and carried away from
itself.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Άbdu'l-Bahá, p. 90
TIME AND PLACE OF NINETEEN DAY FEAST
WHEN TO HOLD FEAST
Date
As you know, the Nineteen Day Feast has been regarded by Baha'u'llah as highly desirable and meritorious.
Moreover, though no special day has been fixed for the Feast, Shoghi Effendi indicated that it would be
preferable and most suitable for it to be held on the first day of the Baha'i month. The House of Justice
envisions there are certain occasions, for example, a regular proclamation or teaching event or instances of
difficulty where the friends would otherwise be unable to attend, when it is desirable to hold the Feast at
another time within the Baha'i month such as on a weekend. In a large community, the Local Assembly may,
of course, for practical reasons, arrange more than one Feast within its jurisdiction.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 21, 2005, to a Local Spiritual Assembly
You ask if it is within the discretion of a Local Spiritual Assembly to schedule the Feasts at times other than
the first day of a Bahá’í month, and point out that attendance was very low when Feasts were held in the
middle of a week, but that when held on a Saturday many more of the friends were able to attend. It seems
obvious, therefore, that the intent of the Local Assembly, in loving consideration of the members of its
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
community, was to make the participation in a Nineteen Day Feast available to as many of the believers as
possible. ...
On the other hand, since the beloved Guardian expressed a preference, and considered it “most suitable,” for
the Feast to be held on the first day of each month, the House of Justice hopes that the friends everywhere will
aim at scheduling their Nineteen Day Feasts in this way, and that the friends themselves will arrange their
personal affairs to be able to attend.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 10, 1985, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 816
As you are aware, while there can be no exception to the rule that every distinct municipal area can have only
one Local Spiritual Assembly formed within its limits, it is permissible to hold separate Nineteen Day Feasts
in smaller districts within a locality. The House of Justice feels that the National Spiritual Assembly should be
flexible regarding the matter of whether these celebrations can be held on different dates, and it has no
objection to this proposal in the case that it is not feasible to hold the various Feast observances on the first
day of the month.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 31, 2000, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Your letter presents a compelling case for flexibility in the scheduling of the Nineteen Day Feast. However,
the House of Justice does not approve of your suggestion to separate the administrative portion of the Feast
from the devotional and social ones. The letter of 28 August 1989 we were instructed to write to all National
Spiritual Assemblies said: “While the House of Justice does not wish to de-emphasize the preference
expressed by Shoghi Effendi that the Feast be held on the first day of the Bahá'í month, it feels that in
instances of difficulty, where the friends would otherwise be unable to attend, the National Spiritual Assembly
may point out to Local Assemblies that it is permissible to hold the Feast at another time within the Bahá'í
month, such as on a weekend.” In view of the circumstances described in your letter, the House of Justice
advises you to make use of this latitude as necessary, so that by permitting Local Spiritual Assemblies to
schedule the Feast in their communities on the weekend following and closest to requirements for all of its
component parts. By this scheduling, the Feast can be organized to take the greater part of a day, if the friends
so desire. In such cases, the Local Assembly should establish a schedule for the entire year and announce it to
the friends.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 10, 2001, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Time
The Bahá’í day ends and a new one begins at sunset; consequently the day on which a Feast or Holy Day is
observed begins at sunset of the day before the Gregorian date.
As to your questions concerning the times for Feasts and Holy Days: The Bahá’í Day is from sunset to
sunset, therefore if in summer the sun sets too late to enable the Nineteen Day Feast to be held on the
preceding evening, it should be held on the day itself. As long as the meeting begins before sunset it is
considered to be held on the day which comes to an end with that sunset. Naturally Nineteen Day Feasts
should be held on the first day of the Bahá’í month if possible, but if it should be difficult to do so, for
example if it coincides with a regular public meeting evening, it is permissible to hold it on the following day,
i.e., on a succeeding day of the Bahá’í month.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated June 23, 1964, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, no. 948
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
WHERE TO HOLD FEAST
Civil Area
[T]he governing principle is that each local community should hold Nineteen Day Feasts within its own civil
area.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated February 10, 1986, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Indoors or Outdoors
There is no objection to holding meetings in the open air as long as they are conducted with dignity.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated November 22, 1941, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations,
Vol. I, no. 949
Decentralization of Feasts in Large Communities
We understand and appreciate the problems involved in the holding of Nineteen Day Feasts in the large
cities such as New York and Los Angeles and we have no objection to your Assembly authorizing the Local
Assembly to provide for the holding of the Feast in different localities as an experiment, if the Local
Assembly so wishes, bearing in mind the following precautions:
The tendency in metropolitan areas is towards segregation, and therefore the Local Assembly should be alert
to prevent a similar pattern developing in Bahá’í meetings by reason of the location of the Feast. The Local
Assembly should be watchful that neither the unity of the community nor control by the Local Assembly is
dissipated by this practice.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 23, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The
Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 952
[I]f found desirable, the Spiritual Assembly could authorize the holding of separate Nineteen Day Feasts in
several sub-units. In such a decentralized system, the Local Spiritual Assembly would have to provide for the
overall coordination of the efforts of the friends in all sub-units of the city.
The sub-division of the city should be seen merely as an administrative necessity meant to serve the good of
the whole community; in this sense, the Assembly should guard strenuously against creating too many sub-
units, contenting itself with the minimum action in this respect. Given the racial and social stratification of
large cities, the Spiritual Assembly would also have to exert the utmost care not to allow the Bahá’í
community of … to become, in effect, racially or socially fragmented, even though one race or stratum of
society may be dominant in a sub-unit of the city. One of the questions that should remain uppermost in the
minds of the Assembly, the committees and the individual friends is how to uphold at all times, through their
functions and deeds, the primary principle and goal of our Faith, namely, the unity of the human race.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 20, 1987, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The
Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 956
The decentralization of the Nineteen Day Feast in urban centres, where a significant percentage of humanity
currently resides, is an inevitable consequence of the growth of the Faith, marking a significant stage in the
organic development of a local community. While care should be taken to avoid instituting this practice
precipitously when the number of believers in the entire city is relatively small, a Local Spiritual Assembly
should not feel obliged to prolong the pattern of hosting a community-wide Feast if it is no longer propitious.
Such a change may be required when limited time or facilities hamper the satisfactory observance of the three
parts of the Feast in a single location, most notably the portion devoted to consultation on community affairs.
Dividing a local community into areas for the purpose of celebrating the Feast is not without certain
challenges. In many cities around the world, for instance, people have been segregated into areas according to
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
various factors such as race, ethnicity, and economic conditions. A Local Assembly must be mindful that
barriers entrenched in the wider population are not inadvertently perpetuated in the local Bahá’í community as
a whole.
The Assembly will also want to ensure that consultations in each area are fruitful and productive, that the
views of the friends are brought to its attention, and that it responds to recommendations in a loving and
constructive manner.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 17, 2009, to all National Spiritual Assemblies
Difficulties of travelling to the Nineteen Day Feasts, and other occasions, which may be met in certain
parishes can be overcome by your authorizing the Local Assembly in such a parish to hold more than one
Feast within its area. There is no need to establish rigid boundaries for such a purpose, and the friends should
be allowed to attend the Feasts in their parish most convenient to them; but all should note that every Feast in
the area is a portion of the same Feast under the jurisdiction of the Local Spiritual Assembly. Occasions
should be provided for the entire Bahá’í community of the parish to meet together, and Feast days need not be
excluded from such occasions.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 14, 1980, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The
Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 954
Your letter of August 9th posing the problem of holding Nineteen Day Feasts and other Bahá'í activities in
the two communities ... which have grown so large that it is impossible to conduct such activities in homes is
welcomed by us, and we hope you will meet this problem before long in other communities. We leave it to
your discretion as to whether these large communities should purchase adequate facilities to accommodate the
believers at Feasts and other Bahá'í activities, rent facilities, or hold several simultaneous Feasts, still utilizing
homes.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 21, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, no. 953
See also:
Appointments as Needed by Community — Administrative Task Forces for Sectors and Neighborhoods — Ch. 3
Holding of Functions in Churches or Other Religious Buildings
Generally there is no objection to holding ... Bahá’í functions in places or facilities owned and operated by
non-Bahá’í religious bodies, provided such use does not tend to identify the Faith, in the eyes of the public,
with other religions.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 3, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly
ORGANIZATION OF FEAST
As to your question concerning Bahá’í feasts, Shoghi Effendi strongly feels that on such occasions the
friends should emphasize both the spiritual and the administrative elements. For these are equally essential to
the success of every Bahá’í festival. To maintain the right balance between them is, therefore, the duty and
responsibility of every individual Bahá’í or group.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated May 27, 1934, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I,
no. 937
Regarding the nature of the Nineteen Day Feasts, the Guardian feels that the excellent statement [see
commentary below] on their nature, function and purpose published in one of the recent issues of the News
Letter is so comprehensive and faithful in its presentation that he does not find it necessary to restate and
enlarge upon the matter. He has no objection, however, if you feel the need to elaborate the thought expressed
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
in that statement, stressing particularly the spiritual, administrative and social aspects of this vital Bahá’í
institution.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated September 6, 1933, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, no. 936
The statement referred to in the above quotation was as follows:
This institution, established by Bahá'u'lláh, has been described by the Guardian as the foundation of the
new World Order. The National Spiritual Assembly understands that it is incumbent upon every believer,
unless ill or absent from the city, to attend each of these Feasts.
In a general letter issued to Local Spiritual Assemblies several years ago, it was pointed out that the
Guardian instructs that the Nineteen Day Feast be held according to the following program: the first part,
entirely spiritual in character, is devoted to readings from Bahá’í Sacred Writings; the second part consists
of general consultation on the affairs of the Cause, at which time the Local Spiritual Assembly reports its
activities to the community, asks for suggestions and consultation, and also delivers messages received
from the Guardian and the National Assembly. The third part is the material feast and social meeting of all
the friends. Only voting believers are invited to attend the Nineteen Day Feasts, but young people of less
than twenty-one years of age who are declared believers, especially when members of a Bahá'í family, can
also be present.
Statement by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the United States, “Bahá'í Procedure,” sec. 1
Regarding changing the order of the Feast, it is clear from Shoghi Effendi’s instructions that the Nineteen
Day Feast program should start with the spiritual part, and not with the social part, which includes
refreshments, or breaking bread together. ... However, if it is found that some sort of association among the
friends or the serving of food and refreshments will be helpful, if this takes place at the outset, there is no
objection to this practice, provided it is clear that it is not part of the Feast.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 23, 1985, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, no. 943
We can understand the desire of some of the friends to provide a warm welcome at the Feasts to newly
declared believers and particularly youth, and we see no objection to the Assembly giving a reception before
the actual Feast to achieve this purpose. As the Feast is frequently held in the evening, the Assembly might
consider it desirable to arrange for the believers to have a light evening meal together before the Feast is held
or it could, for example, arrange for social activities of an appropriate kind while the friends are gathering
prior to the actual commencement of the Nineteen Day Feast. This should not, however, take the place of the
social part of the Feast itself.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 21, 1973, to the Hands of the Cause residing in the Holy Land, in The
Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 1004
THE DEVOTIONAL ASPECT OF FEAST
A good part of the feast must of course be devoted to the reading of the Holy Words. For it is through them
that the friends can get the inspiration and the vision they need for the successful accomplishment of their
work for the Cause.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 27, 1934, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations,
Vol. I, no. 937
[T]he Feast is opened with devotional readings, that is to say prayers and meditations, from the Writings of
Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb and the Master. Following this, passages may be read from other Tablets, from the Holy
Scriptures of previous Dispensations, and from the writings of the Guardian. It is clear, however, that the
beloved Guardian would not wish his own words to be read as part of an arranged devotional programme in
which they would be interspersed among the words of Holy Scriptures. In other words, at the Nineteen Day
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
Feast, where the words of the Guardian are to be read they should follow any selections from the Scriptures
and not be mixed with them.
Letter of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 25, 1965, to the Hands of the Cause of God, cited in a letter from the Universal
House of Justice, dated October 15, 1972, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 818
By convening a gathering for worship at which adults and children of any background are welcome, the spirit
of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár is evoked in any locality. The enhancement of the devotional character of a
community also has an effect on the Nineteen Day Feast and can be felt at other times when the friends come
together.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 29, 2015 to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
THE ADMINISTRATIVE ASPECT
Consultation at the Nineteen Day Feast creates a space for the growing social consciousness of the
community to find constructive expression.
Letter of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 2010, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
The administrative portion is animated by reports on the progress of the Cause, as well as insights
contributed by eager believers drawn from diverse populations, both newly enrolled and long-standing,
engaged in Bahá’í activity.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 17, 2009, to all National Spiritual Assemblies
There is a time set aside at the Nineteen Day Feasts for the community to express its views and make
suggestions to its assembly; the assembly and the believers should look forward to this happy period of
discussion, and neither fear it nor suppress it.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated June 30, 1949, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, no. 996
The Administrative Order provides channels for expression of criticism, acknowledging, as a matter of
principle, that “it is not only the right, but the vital responsibility of every loyal and intelligent member of the
community to offer fully and frankly, but with due respect and consideration to the authority of the Assembly,
any suggestion, recommendation or criticism he conscientiously feels he should in order to improve and
remedy certain existing conditions or trends in his local community.” Correspondingly, the Assembly has the
duty “to give careful consideration to any such views submitted to them.”
Apart from the direct access which one has to an Assembly, local or national, or to a Counsellor or Auxiliary
Board member, there are specific occasions for the airing of one’s views in the community. The most frequent
of these occasions for any Bahá’í is the Nineteen Day Feast which, “besides its social and spiritual aspects,
fulfills various administrative needs and requirements of the community, chief among them being the need for
open and constructive criticism and deliberation regarding the state of affairs within the local Bahá’í
community.” At the same time, Shoghi Effendi’s advice, as conveyed by his secretary, goes on to stress the
point that “all criticisms and discussions of a negative character which may result in undermining the
authority of the Assembly as a body should be strictly avoided. For otherwise the order of the Cause itself will
be endangered, and confusion and discord will reign in the community.”
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 29, 1988, to the believers in a particular country, “Individual Rights and
Freedoms”
See also:
Consultation — Ch. 4
Correspondence — Feast Recommendations and Communications — Ch. 4
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
Recommendations at Feast
Article IV of the Local Assembly By-Laws states: “while retaining the sacred right of final decision in all
matters pertaining to the Bahá'í community, the Spiritual Assembly shall ever seek the advice and consultation
of all members of the community, keep the community informed of all its affairs, and invite full and free
discussion on the part of the community in all matters affecting the Faith.”
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated March 24, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 230
Theirs [the Assembly] is the duty, while retaining the sacred and exclusive right of final decision in their
hands, to invite discussion, provide information, ventilate grievances, welcome advice from even the most
humble and insignificant members of the Bahá'í family, expose their motives, set forth their plans, justify their
actions, revise if necessary their verdict, foster the sense of interdependence and co-partnership, of
understanding and mutual confidence between them on one hand…and individual believers on the other.
Letter from Shoghi Effendi, dated October 18, 1927, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Bahá’í Administration, pp. 143–144
Feast consultation is a forum for community affairs and not for personal matters. Information that pertains to
adverse behavior or status of specific individuals should be considered confidential and brought up with the
Assembly privately.
See also:
Announcing the Loss of Administrative Rights — Ch. 10
Recording Recommendations
Each Assembly should ask its Secretary to record recommendations and suggestions from Feast for later
consideration by the Assembly or it may ask another of its members to do so, depending on who will be in
attendance. Decisions of the Assembly concerning recommendations made at Feast should be reported back
to the community at a later Feast, as a matter of courtesy and as evidence of the importance it places upon
the principles of consultation.
See also:
Correspondence — Feast Recommendations and Communications — Ch. 4
Deciding on What Is a Recommendation or Suggestion
If the friends at a Nineteen Day Feast agree with a recommendation, either unanimously or by a majority, it
constitutes a recommendation from the Feast to the Assembly. On the other hand, if an individual believer
makes a suggestion that other friends do not take up, it may still be considered by the Assembly ...
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 27, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The Compilation
of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 101
Who May Vote at Feast
Adult members of the local community in possession of their voting rights are eligible to vote on Feast
recommendations.
Bahá'í youth between the ages of 15 and 21 may certainly take part in discussions, and should be encouraged
to do so, but they may not vote on recommendations to the Assembly until they are 21.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated September 16, 1979, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The
Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 999
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
A Bahá'í who is visiting another community may participate fully in the consultation of the Nineteen Day
Feast, but has no right to vote on recommendations being made to the Local Spiritual Assembly. Out of
courtesy, however, a visitor would normally refrain from taking too much time of the consultation.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 23, 1985, to an individual, in The Compilation of Compilations,
Vol. I, no. 965
Chairing the Feast
The Chairman of the local assembly is, if present, the logical and appropriate person to take charge of the
consultation period between the assembly and the community members at the Nineteen Day Feast.
Shoghi Effendi, Unfolding Destiny, p. 450
The By Laws of a Local Spiritual Assembly clearly imply the roles of the chairman and vice chairman for
meetings of the Assembly. For Feasts, the chairman or an appointed representative of the Spiritual Assembly
presides during the period of consultation. However, this is not specified in the By Laws and is a secondary
matter left to the discretion of the National Assembly in each country; that Assembly may either adopt a
uniform procedure for Local Assemblies to follow, or leave the matter to the discretion of the Local Assembly
itself ...
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 23, 1986, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, no. 1003
It would not be administratively proper for a Bahá'í youth under 21 years of age to act as Chairman of the
Nineteen Day Feast. However, no great issue should be made of this as it is a purely minor matter.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 22, 1984, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The
Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 980
Occasionally the Assembly may find it necessary or appropriate to delegate the responsibility of chairing the
Feast to another member or to request a person who is not an Assembly member to chair the Feast.
It is helpful to have a chair with a suitable tone who can keep the discussion focused and moving, keep strong
personalities from dominating the consultation, and who will provide all members with opportunities and
encouragement to share their views.
Language Accommodations
The Local Spiritual Assembly ... is correct in its decision to conduct the Nineteen Day Feasts in Spanish and
to not translate the proceedings in Persian, especially in view of the fact that some of the Spanish friends are
becoming alienated from the community. Although the Iranian believers should make every effort to attend
the Nineteen Day Feasts, they should not expect such meetings to be conducted in Persian. They should try to
learn Spanish, particularly if they are planning to make their home in Spain. There is no objection, however,
to Persian friends if they so wish having special meetings for fellowship and deepening conducted in Persian.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 6, 1983, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The
Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 1007
Wherever linguistic problems exist, the House of Justice welcomes the holding of special classes and
gatherings for the Iranian friends in addition to the regular community meetings, so that they will have the
opportunity to study the Holy Writings in their own language and will be kept informed of what is going on in
the Bahá'í community of … . Nineteen Day Feasts and Local Spiritual Assembly meetings should be
conducted in English or French, as the case may be, since these are the languages of your country. If,
however, it is possible to make arrangements for the Iranians who have not yet learned the language to benefit
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
in some way from the topics discussed at such meetings without interfering with the smooth running of the
meetings, this factor could be taken into consideration.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 7, 1984, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The
Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 1010
As a general principle, the Nineteen Day Feast and other official Bahá’í gatherings should be conducted in
the conventional language spoken by the people of the locality. However, as social and economic conditions
throughout the world continue to change, it is not unreasonable to assume that more and more people will be
forced to migrate to urban centres, forming pockets of minorities, each with a distinct language, as can
already be seen, for example, in the concentrations of Spanish-speaking populations in North America or of
certain tribal populations in Africa. In such instances, when the Feast is decentralized, the question may well
arise as to whether the programme can be conducted in the language spoken by the minority population most
prevalent in a neighbourhood. At this stage, the House of Justice does not wish to lay down any hard and fast
rules, and it is left to the discretion of the Local Spiritual Assembly concerned to decide, under the guidance
of the National Spiritual Assembly, how to address the matter, approaching it with both flexibility and an
attitude of learning.
Naturally, whether the Feast is held centrally or in several locations, a Local Assembly will want all the
friends to feel that they are part of one unified community, irrespective of linguistic differences, and will take
steps to ensure that an inviting atmosphere is created. To this end, selections from the Writings in the diverse
languages spoken by the friends might well be included in the devotional programme of the Feast. Further,
suitable ways should be found to inform believers not fluent in the language in which the Feast is conducted
of the content of major messages and announcements. During consultations, they should be afforded an
opportunity to express their views, in their own language if necessary. It should be feasible to offer any
translation needed in a manner that does not interfere with the smooth running of the meeting.
… The continued expansion of the Bahá’í community in the years to come will surely give rise to a range of
challenges that will affect how the devotional, administrative, and social aspects of the Nineteen Day Feast
are conducted in diverse localities. Responsibility for addressing these challenges will fall, in the first
instance, on Local Spiritual Assemblies. Theirs is the duty to remain alert to conditions in their communities,
to consult with the friends, to respond thoughtfully to a multiplicity of needs and circumstances, and to
remain flexible without compromising fundamental principles.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 17, 2009, to all National Spiritual Assemblies
Feasts in Persian
The Local Spiritual Assembly, under whose aegis a 19 Day Feast is held, should ensure that the atmosphere at
such gatherings is welcoming to the Persian friends and to the local believers, so that all the Bahá'ís may feel
that they are part of one unified community, irrespective of linguistic considerations, and the Bahá'í
community may fulfil its role as a model to the larger society which is desperately seeking harmony and
concord in social relationships. There is no objection in principle to translation into the Persian language
being provided at Feasts but it should not interfere with the smooth running of the meeting: this may
necessitate that the Persian-speaking friends sit together in such a way that the translation does not disturb
others, and these friends should not feel offended if they are seated to one side of the main proceedings for
this purpose.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated March 14, 1995, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Local Assemblies have discretion, under the guidance of its National Assembly, to decide whether
decentralized Feasts can be conducted in the language spoken by a minority population that is prevalent in a
neighborhood. Communities with large numbers of recent Persian immigrants have the flexibility to hold
separate Feasts in Persian as part of an integration process. However, these Feasts should be seen as a
temporary measure, one step toward a longer-term goal of integrating the whole community. Local
Assemblies are encouraged to continue to look for ways to promote integration among the friends in their
areas so that feelings of estrangement or disunity on account of language can be avoided and so all feel
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
welcome and part of one unified community. Assemblies should encourage immigrant believers with
advanced English skills to attend the Feasts conducted in English and help the non-immigrant friends
appreciate the reason for holding additional Feasts in a foreign language. Assemblies are also encouraged to
report to the National Assembly their experiences and learning from conducting foreign-language Feasts to
help assess how they are working and so that insights may be shared with other communities.
See also:
Participation — Interpreters — Ch. 4
Considerations for Diverse Populations — Language Accommodations at Bahá'í Events — Ch. 6
THE SOCIAL ASPECT
When they gather in this meeting, all those present must turn their faces toward the Kingdom of Abhá, and
from their hearts supplicate, invoke and entreat toward the lofty throne, beg of God’s forgiveness for all
shortcomings, read the teachings and arise to His service.
Then spread the feast and give refreshments. Assuredly great results will be the outcome of such meetings.
Material and spiritual benefits will be assured. All who are present will be intoxicated with the breezes of the
Love of God, and the Breath of the Holy Spirit will with tremendous power inspire the hearts.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, quoted from a talk given at a Nineteen Day Feast in London, England, on December 29, 1912, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, p. 431
The social portion transcends polite formalities, becoming the joyous reunion of ardent lovers, of tested
companions united in a common purpose, whose conversations are elevated by spiritual themes.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 17, 2009, to all National Spiritual Assemblies
ATTENDANCE AND PARTICIPATION
ATTENDANCE IS ENCOURAGED
In regard to the Nineteen Day feasts, Shoghi Effendi is of the opinion that the believers should be impressed
with the importance of attending these gatherings which, in addition to their spiritual significance, constitute a
vital medium for maintaining close and continued contact between the believers themselves, and also between
them and the body of their elected representatives in the local community.
No radical action, such as the expulsion of any believer from the community, should, however, be taken in
case anyone fails to attend these feasts. It is for every individual ... conscience and responsibility.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated December 22, 1934, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations,
Vol. I, no. 957
On the other hand, since the beloved Guardian expressed a preference, and considered it “most suitable,” for
the Feast to be held on the first day of each month, the House of Justice hopes that the friends everywhere will
aim at scheduling their Nineteen Day Feasts in this way, and that the friends themselves will arrange their
personal affairs to be able to attend.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 10, 1985, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 816
By convening a gathering for worship at which adults and children of any background are welcome, the spirit
of the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár is evoked in any locality. The enhancement of the devotional character of a
community also has an effect on the Nineteen Day Feast and can be felt at other times when the friends come
together.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, Dated December 29, 2015, to the Conference of the Continental Boards of Counsellors
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
[R]egarding the Nineteen Day Feasts; these are not strictly obligatory, but the believers should endeavour to
regularly attend them, mainly for the following two reasons: first, because they foster the spirit of service and
fellowship in the community, and secondly, in view of the fact that they afford the believers a splendid
opportunity to fully discuss the affairs of the Cause and to find ways and means for continued improvement in
the conduct of Bahá’í activities.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated November 30, 1936, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations,
Vol. I, no. 958
Isolated believers and the members of groups may also, of course, attend the Nineteen Day Feasts of
communities when they wish to.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 23, 1985, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, no. 965
Children of Bahá’í Parents
Since children of Bahá’í parents are considered to be Bahá’ís, they are to be encouraged to attend all Feasts,
there to share the reading of the Writings and prayers and be bathed in the spirit of the community. It is the
hope of the House of Justice that every Feast will be a feast of love when the children will give and receive
the tangible affection of the community and its individual members.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 28, 1977, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The Compilation
of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 981
See also:
Declaration and Enrollment or Registration of Children and Youth — Children of Bahá'í Parents — Ch. 5
Bahá'í Children of Non-Bahá’í Parents
Concerning your inquiry asking if children under fifteen of non-Bahá’í parents could attend Nineteen Day
Feasts or other events held exclusively for Bahá’ís when the children consider themselves as Bahá’ís, such
children may be permitted to attend Bahá’í functions provided their parents have given their consent. This
applies only, of course, to children under the age of fifteen years.
Letter written by the Universal House of Justice, dated August 4, 1970, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, no. 976
See also:
Declaration and Enrollment or Registration of Children and Youth — Children of Non-Bahá'í Parents — Ch. 5
Behavior of Children
[T]he House of Justice has instructed us to say that children should be trained to understand the spiritual
significance of the gatherings of the followers of the Blessed Beauty, and to appreciate the honour and bounty
of being able to take part in them, whatever their outward form may be. It is realized that some Bahá’í
observances are lengthy and it is difficult for very small children to remain quiet for so long. In such cases
one or other of the parents may have to miss part of the meeting in order to care for the child. The Spiritual
Assembly can also perhaps help the parents by providing for a children’s observance, suited to their
capacities, in a separate room during part of the community’s observance. Attendance at the whole of the adult
celebration thus becomes a sign of growing maturity and a distinction to be earned by good behaviour.
In any case, the House of Justice points out that parents are responsible for their children and should make
them behave when they attend Bahá’í meetings. If children persist in creating a disturbance they should be
taken out of the meeting. This is not merely necessary to ensure the properly dignified conduct of Bahá’í
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
meetings but is an aspect of the training of children in courtesy, consideration for others, reverence, and
obedience to their parents.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 14, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The
Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 979
See also:
Core Activities — Children's Classes — Ch. 6
Bahá'í Visitors
Any Bahá’í may attend a Feast, a local Bahá’í, a Bahá’í from out of town, certainly an isolated Bahá’í in the
neighborhood.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated May 27, 1957, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, no. 962
As to visitors to a Nineteen Day Feast, Bahá’ís from anywhere in the world should of course be warmly
welcomed, and may take part in consultation. However, only members of the local community can vote on
recommendations to the Local Spiritual Assembly.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 1, 1968, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 801
A Bahá'í who is visiting another community may participate fully in the consultation of the Nineteen Day
Feast, but has no right to vote on recommendations being made to the Local Spiritual Assembly. Out of
courtesy, however, a visitor would normally refrain from taking too much time of the consultation. ... Isolated
believers and the members of groups may also, of course, attend the Nineteen Day Feasts of communities
when they wish to.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 23, 1985, to an individual, in The Compilation of Compilations,
Vol. I, no. 965
The Assembly should not hesitate to ask for Bahá'í credentials when admitting Bahá'í visitors, if they are not
well known in the community. Vouching for Bahá'ís visiting from Iran is permissible, as explained in the
section “Visitors from Iran without Credentials”.
See also:
Checking Credentials — Ch. 5
Credentials of Bahá'ís from Other Countries — Ch. 5
WHO MAY NOT ATTEND NINETEEN DAY FEASTS
In addition to the other categories covered below, when one believer has an order of protection against
another they may not both attend the same Feast (or other events).
See also:
Self-defense — Orders of Protection — Ch. 10
Believers Deprived of Voting Rights
One who has lost his voting rights … cannot attend Nineteen Day Feasts or other meetings for Bahá'ís only,
… and therefore cannot take part in consultation on the affairs of the community. ... He cannot contribute to
the Bahá’í Fund. ... He is debarred from participating in administrative matters, including the right to vote in
Bahá'í elections. He cannot hold office or be appointed to a committee. …
Attachment to a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 9, 1985, to a National Spiritual Assembly,
in Lights of Guidance, no. 216
See also:
Meaning of Deprivation of Administrative Rights — Ch. 10
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
Bahá'ís Awaiting Verification of or without Current Credentials
Believers without valid credentials, including those in the process of transferring from other countries, may
participate only in those functions open to non-Bahá'ís. However, vouching for Bahá'ís visiting from Iran is
permissible, as explained in the section “Visitors from Iran without Credentials”.
See also:
Details of Enrollment Process — Assembly Responsibilities in Processing a Registration — Ch. 5
Checking Credentials — Ch. 5
Credentials of Bahá'ís from Other Countries — Ch. 5
International Membership Transfers — Ch. 5
Friends of the Faith and other Non-Bahá'ís
[I]f a non-Bahá’í does appear at a Nineteen Day Feast he should be made to feel welcome, but a Bahá’í
should certainly not invite a non-Bahá’í to attend.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 23, 1985, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations,
Vol. I, no. 975
In general, the believers are discouraged from inviting those who are not Bahá’ís to the commemoration of
the Feast. However, friends of the Faith do sometimes appear unexpectedly, and they are not to be turned
away. Courtesy and the spirit of fellowship require that they be warmly received. In this light, unanticipated
visitors, who were by and large infrequent in the past, have been welcome to join the devotional and social
portions of the Feast, but either they were asked to absent themselves during the administrative portion or that
segment of the programme would be eliminated entirely.
Now, with the Plan’s framework for action well established in so many places, growing numbers enjoy ready
access to Bahá’í community life through the core activities, and there is greatly increased likelihood that those
who are close to the Faith will learn about the Nineteen Day Feast and appear at its celebration. The House of
Justice has decided that, in such instances, rather than eliminating the administrative portion completely or
asking the visitors to withdraw, those conducting the programme can modify this part of the Feast to
accommodate the guests. The sharing of local and national news and information about social events, as well
as consultation on topics of general interest, such as the teaching work, service projects, the Fund, and so on,
can take place as usual, while discussion of sensitive or problematic issues related to these or other topics can
be set aside for another time when the friends can express themselves freely without being inhibited by the
presence of visitors.
A similar approach to the administrative portion may be adopted when the Feast is celebrated in the home of a
family with some members who are not Bahá’ís. As part of planning these occasions, careful thought must be
given, on the one hand, to the requisites of hospitality and love, and, on the other, to those of confidentiality
and unfettered discussion on important and sensitive subjects. The Local Assembly, in consultation with the
believers who have such relatives, should endeavour to find a satisfactory way to resolve each situation that
arises.
Email from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 17, 2009, to all National Spiritual Assemblies
If it is decided to postpone part or all of the consultative portion of the Feast, the House of Justice states that
it is within the discretion of the Local Spiritual Assembly to decide whether another meeting should be held
during the Bahá’í month to complete it, or whether it can be postponed until the following Nineteen Day
Feast.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated September 5, 1983, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The
Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 964
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
[O]ccasionally, if the Feast is held in the home of the family where the spouse is not a Bahá'í, it would be
discourteous not to allow the non-Bahá'í member of the family to attend at least the social and spiritual parts
of the Feast.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 8, 1985, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The
Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 974
Although in general the believers are discouraged from inviting those who are not Bahá'ís to the
commemoration of the Feast, certain scenarios will inevitably arise as described in the letter of May 17, 2009.
Friends of the Faith might show up unexpectedly, for example, or the Feast might be held in the home of a
family with some members who are not Bahá'ís. In both cases adjustments can be made to accommodate
such friends while also attending to the normal business of the community. Challenges will arise that are sure
to affect the observance of the Feast as the Bahá'í community continues to expand. The chief responsibility
for addressing them will fall to the Local Spiritual Assemblies, which must read its reality and respond
according to each situation, always engendering qualities of love, patience, and thoughtful decision-making.
In communities without a Bahá'í Center where it is difficult to schedule Feasts in homes without the presence
of non-Bahá'í family members, arrangements may be made to hold Feasts in public facilities that offer
meeting rooms. Some offer them at low or no cost to community organizations.
MUSIC
With regard to your question concerning the use of music in the Nineteen Day Feasts, he wishes you to
assure all the friends that not only he approves of such a practice, but thinks it even advisable that the
believers should make use, in their meetings, of hymns composed by Bahá’ís themselves, and also of such
hymns, poems and chants as are based on the Holy Words.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated April 7, 1935, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I,
no. 982
Regarding your question about singing during the devotional portion of the Feast, you are correct in your
suggestion that the lyrics in such music should be drawn from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, the Báb and Άbdu'l-
Bahá. The friends are welcome to use music containing non-scriptural lyrics to enrich and enliven other parts
of their Feasts.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated March 1994, to individual believers
[W]e feel that it will be helpful to you to know that songs whose words are the primary Writings of the Báb,
Bahá'u'lláh or Άbdu'l-Bahá are all quite fitting for the devotional portion of the Feast. Indeed, the Persian
chants are such songs, out of a different tradition; they are a way of giving music to the holy Word, and each
person who chants does it in a way which mirrors his feeling and expression of the Words he is uttering. As
for songs whose words are poetic and the composition of persons other than the Figures of the Faith, these
may be desirable but in their proper place, for, as you know, “music is the language of the spirit.”
Inasmuch as the spirit of our gathering is so much affected by the tone and quality of our worship, of our
feeling and appreciation of the Word of God for this day, we would hope that you would encourage the most
beautiful possible expression of the human spirits in your communities, through music among other modes of
feeling.
Letter written by the Universal House of Justice, dated February 22, 1971, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, no. 991
Music is permitted during the spiritual part — or any part — of the Nineteen Day Feast.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated June 30, 1952, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I,
no. 987
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
Devotional Movement or Dance
You have also asked about the use of devotional movement or dance during the devotions of the Feast.
Shoghi Effendi has pointed out in a letter dated 15 June 1935 written on his behalf:
The important thing that should always be borne in mind is that with the exception of certain specific
obligatory prayers Bahá'u'lláh has given us no strict or special ruling in matters of worship whether in the
Temple or elsewhere. Prayer is essentially a communion between man and God, and as such transcends
all ritualistic forms and formulae.
It is perfectly acceptable for a prayer to be interpreted in the form of movement or dance. As you know, in
many parts of the world there are certain tribal and traditional dances which are performed in glorification of
God. Just as a composer can create a piece of music as a result of inspiration by some passage in the Writings,
so can a person perform a reverential dance, which is another form of art, to interpret a passage from a prayer
or from the Writings. However, to avoid that such expressions of prayer become gradually ritualized, it is
preferable that they not be accompanied by reading the words of the prayers.
Through the revealed prayers we seek communion with God; hence they must be offered with the utmost
reverence and dignity. In teaching children to say prayers, it is desirable, even where an attitude of devotion
prevails, not to use gestures and movement lest they become habitual accompaniments to those prayers.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated March 1994, to individual believers
OBSERVANCE OF FEAST BY GROUPS AND ISOLATED BELIEVERS
In reply to your letter of November 8th we feel that all friends, whatever their circumstances, should be
encouraged to observe the Nineteen Day Feast. Obviously it can only be an official administrative occasion
where there is a Local Spiritual Assembly to take charge of it, present reports to the friends, and receive their
recommendations. But groups, spontaneous gatherings of friends, and even isolated believers should certainly
remember the day and say prayers together. In the case of a group it may well hold the Feast in the manner in
which a Local Spiritual Assembly would do so, recognizing of course that it has no official administrative
standing.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 1, 1968, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 806
PRACTICES DISCOURAGED
SALE OF ITEMS DURING FEAST
As to the sale of items during the Nineteen Day Feast, we leave this to your discretion, bearing in mind that
the principle purpose of holding the Feast should not be diverted and that pressure should not be placed upon
the friends to participate in the purchase of articles offered for sale. Neither should it become an habitual
thing. It would be better if the sale was not conducted during the Feast itself, but held at a separate time before
or after the Feast proper.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 1, 1968, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 827
SMOKING AT FEAST
See also:
Smoking at Bahá'í Meetings — Ch. 14
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 7 – The Nineteen Day Feast
FEASTS OTHER THAN NINETEEN DAY FEASTS
JOINT FEASTS
With respect to your question asking whether a Local Spiritual Assembly may cancel its Nineteen Day Feast
in order to attend Feast in another community, the House of Justice advises that the Nineteen Day Feast
should not be canceled. However, there is no objection to two or more local communities holding a joint
Nineteen Day Feast occasionally, although it is not proper to allow such joint Feasts to be held on a regular
basis. If members of a community find that the plan to hold such a joint Feast would produce inconvenience
to them, they should take the matter up with their Local Spiritual Assembly.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 26, 1987, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, no. 966
[J]oint Feasts do not fulfil the purpose of the Nineteen Day Feast in its strict sense, and should not become a
regular practice among the Friends.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 15, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The
Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 1000
Joint Feasts do not take the place of cluster reflection meetings.
Revised April 2016

8. HOLY DAYS AND FESTIVALS .....................................................................................................................................2
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BADÍʻ CALENDAR ........................................................................................................2
DESCRIPTIONS OF OBSERVANCES ........................................................................................................................3
NAW-RÚZ FESTIVAL ...............................................................................................................................................3
Naw-Rúz Feast and Nineteen Day Feast Are Separate .......................................................................................3
RIDVÁN—THE MOST GREAT FESTIVAL ...............................................................................................................3
First, Ninth, and Twelfth Days of Ridván Have Special Celebrations ...................................................................4
DECLARATION OF THE BÁB ..................................................................................................................................4
ASCENSION OF BAHÁ’U’LLÁH ...............................................................................................................................4
MARTYRDOM OF THE BÁB ....................................................................................................................................4
THE TWIN FESTIVALS OF THE BIRTH OF THE BÁB AND THE BIRTH OF BAHÁ’U’LLÁH .................................4
Twin Holy Birthdays are Celebrated on Separate Days .......................................................................................5
DAY OF THE COVENANT ........................................................................................................................................5
ASCENSION OF ʻABDU’L-BAHÁ .............................................................................................................................5
AYYÁM-I-HÁ .............................................................................................................................................................5
THE BAHÁ’Í FAST ....................................................................................................................................................6
PREPARING FOR HOLY DAYS ...................................................................................................................................6
WHEN TO OBSERVE HOLY DAYS .............................................................................................................................7
COMMEMORATED ON GREGORIAN ANNIVERSARIES .......................................................................................7
Baháʼí Dates 172 to 221 B.E. ...............................................................................................................................7
—Dates of Naw-Rúz, the Twin Holy Birthdays, and Ayyám-i-Há .........................................................................7
—Other Significant Baháʼí Dates (Holy Days and Feasts) ...................................................................................9
TIMES OF DAY FOR COMMEMORATIVE EVENTS ............................................................................................ 10
OTHER CONSIDERATIONS RELATED TO OBSERVANCE OF HOLY DAYS........................................................ 10
RECITATION OF TABLETS OF VISITATION ........................................................................................................ 10
SUSPENSION OF WORK AND SCHOOL ............................................................................................................. 11
Nine Days Relating to the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh .................................................................................................. 11
Being Excused from Work .................................................................................................................................. 11
Bahá’í Institutions ........................................................................................................................................... 11
Businesses Owned by Bahá’ís ...................................................................................................................... 12
Suspension of Bahá’í Administrative Activities .................................................................................................. 12
Children Should Be Excused from School ........................................................................................................ 12
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 8 – Holy Days and Festivals
8. HOLY DAYS AND FESTIVALS
Briefly, every nation has a day to mark as a holiday which they celebrate with joy. In the sacred laws of God,
in every cycle and dispensation, there are blessed feasts, holidays and workless days. On such days all kinds
of occupations, commerce, industry, agriculture, etc., are not allowed. Every work is unlawful. All must enjoy
a good time, gather together, hold general meetings, become as one assembly, so that the national oneness,
unity and harmony may become personified in all eyes. As it is a blessed day it should not be neglected or
without results by making it a day limited to the fruits of mere pleasure. During such blessed days institutions
should be founded that may be of permanent benefit and value to the people so that in current conversation
and in history it may become widely known that such a good work was inaugurated on such a feast day.
Therefore, the intelligent must search and investigate reality to find out what important affair, what
philanthropic institutions are most needed and what foundations should be laid for the community on that
particular day, so that they may be established. For example, if they find that the community needs morality,
then they may lay down the foundation of good morals on that day. If the community be in need of spreading
sciences and widening the circle of knowledge, on that day they should proceed in that direction, that is to
say, direct the thoughts of all the people to that philanthropic cause. If, however, the community is in need of
widening the circle of commerce or industry or agriculture they should start the means so that the desired aim
may be attained. If the community needs protection, proper support and care of orphans, they should act upon
the welfare of the orphans, etc. Such undertakings that are beneficial to the poor, the weak and the helpless
should be pursued in order that, on that day, through the unity of all and through great meetings, results may
be obtained, the glory and blessings of that day may be declared and manifest.
ʻAbduʼl-Bahá, in Days to Remember: Baháʼí Holy Days, p. 26
See also:
A Dynamic Pattern of Baháʼí Community Life — Ch. 6
Room for Variety — Preservation of Cultural Identity — Ch. 7
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE BADÍʻ CALENDAR
The adoption of a new calendar in each dispensation is a symbol of the power of Divine Revelation to reshape
human perception of material, social, and spiritual reality. Through it, sacred moments are distinguished,
humanity’s place in time and space reimagined, and the rhythm of life recast.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice dated July 10, 2014, to the Bahá’ís of the World, par. 8
On July 10, 2014, the Universal House of Justice announced to the Bahá’í world its decision to institute the
implementation of the Badíʻ calendar worldwide:
The setting of the sun on 20 March 2015 will signalize the end of the year 171, the close of the ninth Váhid of
the first Kull-i-Shayʼ of the Bahá’í Era. We call upon the Bahá’ís of the East and West to adopt, on that
auspicious occasion, the provisions that will unite them in the common implementation of the Badí‘calendar.
In keeping with the principle governing the gradual unfoldment and progressive application of the Teachings,
the provisions of the Badí‘ calendar have been set forth over time.…When responding to questions
concerning the calendar, both ‘Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi left these matters to the Universal House of
Justice. Of its many features, three require clarification for the calendarʼs uniform application: the means for
the determination of Naw-Rúz, the accommodation of the lunar character of the Twin Holy Birthdays within
the solar year, and the fixing of the dates of the Holy Days within the Badí‘ calendar.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice dated July 10, 2014, to the Bahá’ís of the World, par. 1 and 2
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 8 – Holy Days and Festivals
The complexities of the Badíʻ calendar led the Universal House of Justice to clarify the dates and times for the
observance of many of the Holy Days, and appointed an ad hoc committee to determine the dates of Naw-
Rúz, the Twin Holy Days, and Ayyám-i-Há for the next 50 years—172 to 221 B.E. (through February 2065).
The dates and times of these Holy Days are described over the next few pages.
DESCRIPTIONS OF OBSERVANCES
The Bahá’í day starts and ends at sunset, and consequently the date of the celebration of Bahá’í feasts should
be adjusted to conform to the Bahá’í calendar time.
Shoghi Effendi, in Principles of Bahá’í Administration, p. 56
The alignment of the dates of the Badí‘ calendar with other calendars will shift depending on the occurrence
of Naw-Rúz.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 10, 2014, to the Bahá’ís of the World, par. 7
The date of Naw-Rúz is determined “by means of astronomical computations from reliable sources” according
to the occurrence of the vernal equinox in Tihrán. Accordingly, the Gregorian dates will shift between March
20 and March 21 from year to year, as set out below in the Badíʻ calendar with Gregorian equivalents.
The Bahá’í day ends and a new one begins at sunset; consequently the day on which a Feast or Holy Day is
observed begins at sunset of the day before the Gregorian dates given below.
When Daylight Saving Time is in effect in a region, the times for Holy Day commemorations are held one hour
later than the time specified.
NAW-RÚZ FESTIVAL
“The Festival of Naw-Rúz falleth on the day that the sun entereth the sign of Aries,” Bahá’u’lláh explains in
His Most Holy Book, “even should this occur no more than one minute before sunset.” However, details have,
until now, been left undefined. We have decided that Tihrán, the birthplace of the Abhá Beauty, will be the
spot on the earth that will serve as the standard for determining, by means of astronomical computations from
reliable sources, the moment of the vernal equinox in the northern hemisphere and thereby the day of Naw-
Rúz for the Bahá’í world.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 10, 2014, to the Bahá’ís of the World, par. 3
Naw-Rúz Feast and Nineteen Day Feast Are Separate
The Naw-Rúz Feast should be held [on the Naw-Rúz day] … before sunset and has nothing to do with the
19-day Feast. The 19-day Feast is administrative in function whereas the Naw-Rúz is our New Year, a Feast of
hospitality and rejoicing.
Letter from Shoghi Effendi, dated July 4, 1950, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1026
See also:
Ch. 7, The Nineteen Day Feast
RIDVÁN—THE MOST GREAT FESTIVAL
Rejoice with exceeding gladness, O people of Bahá, as ye call to remembrance the Day of supreme felicity,
the Day whereon the Tongue of the Ancient of Days hath spoken ...
Baháʼuʼlláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. XIV
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 8 – Holy Days and Festivals
The word Ridván means Paradise. For twelve days, April 20 or 21 through May 1 or 2 depending on when
Naw-Rúz occurs, Bahá’ís celebrate the period in 1863 when Bahá’u’lláh resided in a garden in Baghdád,
which was later called the “Garden of Ridván.” During this period Bahá’u’lláh proclaimed His Mission as God’s
Messenger for this age.
First, Ninth, and Twelfth Days of Ridván Have Special Celebrations
The Most Great Festival commenceth late in the afternoon of the thirteenth day of the second month of the
year according to the Bayán. On the first, ninth and twelfth days of this Festival, work is forbidden.
Baháʼuʼlláh, in “Questions and Answers” of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, no. 1
The first, ninth and twelfth days of the Festival of Ridván are Holy Days …
Universal House of Justice, in “Notes” appended to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, no. 138
The Guardian would advise that, if feasible, the friends should commemorate ... the first day of Ridván, at
about 3:00 p.m. ...
Shoghi Effendi, in Principles of Bahá’í Administration, p. 56
DECLARATION OF THE BÁB
Siyyid ‘Alí-Muhammad declared Himself to be the Báb, or “Gate of God,” to Mullá Husayn-i-Bushrú’í on
May 23, 1844. This date marks the beginning of the Bahá’í Faith, the Bahá’í Era (B.E.) and the Badíʻ
calendar.
The Guardian would advise that, if feasible, the friends should commemorate ... the anniversary of the
Declaration of the Báb … at about two hours after sunset.
Shoghi Effendi, in Principles of Bahá’í Administration, p. 56
ASCENSION OF BAHÁ’U’LLÁH
Bahá’u’lláh ascended to the Abhá Kingdom on May 29, 1892, at the Mansion of Bahjí near ‘Akká, Israel. He
was in His seventy-fifth year.
The Guardian would advise that, if feasible, the friends should commemorate ... the anniversary of the
Ascension of Bahá’u’lláh … at 3:00 a.m.
Shoghi Effendi, in Principles of Bahá’í Administration, p. 56
MARTYRDOM OF THE BÁB
The Báb was put to death at noon on July 10, 1850, in the square in front of the citadel of Tabríz, Iran. He was
in His thirty-first year.
The Guardian would advise that, if feasible, the friends should commemorate ... the anniversary of the
Martyrdom of the Báb … at about noon.
Shoghi Effendi, in Principles of Bahá’í Administration, p. 56
THE TWIN FESTIVALS OF THE BIRTH OF THE BÁB
AND THE BIRTH OF BAHÁ’U’LLÁH
The Birth of the Báb occurred on October 20, 1819 and the Birth of Baháʼu’lláh on November 12, 1817
according to the Solar calendar. These dates, however, correspond to the first and second days of Muharram
in the Islamic calendar. The Universal House of Justice has now made provisions for the Festival of the Twin
Birthdays to be observed universally on two consecutive days as set out below.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 8 – Holy Days and Festivals
The Festivals of the Twin Birthdays, the Birth of the Báb and the Birth of Bahá’u’lláh, have, in the East, been
traditionally observed according to their correspondence to the first and second days of Muharram in the
Islamic calendar. “These two days are accounted as one in the sight of God”, Bahá’u’lláh affirms. Yet, a letter
written on behalf of the Guardian states, “In the future, no doubt all of the Holy Days will follow the Solar
calendar, and provisions be made as to how the Twin Festivals will be celebrated universally.” How to satisfy
the intrinsic lunar character of these blessed Days within the context of a solar calendar has hitherto been
unanswered. We have decided that they will now be observed on the first and the second day following the
occurrence of the eighth new moon after Naw-Rúz, as determined in advance by astronomical tables using
Tihrán as the point of reference. This will result in the observance of the Twin Birthdays moving, year to year,
within the months of Mashíyyat, ‘Ilm, and Qudrat of the Badí‘ calendar, or from mid-October to mid-
November according to the Gregorian calendar.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 10, 2014, to the Bahá’ís of the World, para. 4
Twin Holy Birthdays are Celebrated on Separate Days
With respect to whether it would be suitable and appropriate for the Twin Holy Birthdays to be celebrated on
one occasion, the Guardian clarified that gathering and refraining from work are necessary and required on
both days.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 25, 2015, to an individual believer
DAY OF THE COVENANT
ʻAbduʼl-Bahá told the Baháʼís that this day was not, under any circumstances, to be celebrated as His day of
birth. It was the day of the Declaration of the Báb, exclusively associated with Him. But as the Bahá'ís begged
for a day to be celebrated as His, He gave them November 26th, to be observed as the day of the appointment
of the Centre of the Covenant ...
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, January 23, 1984, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1018
Many years later, in enumerating the Bahá’í Feast Days and Holy Days, Shoghi Effendi instructed that this
day should be observed as the Day of the Covenant by the believers throughout the world, and should be
referred to by that name.
Work is not prohibited on the Day of the Covenant.
ASCENSION OF ʻABDU’L-BAHÁ
ʻAbduʼl-Bahá ascended to the Abhá Kingdom in Haifa, Israel, on November 28, 1921. Work is not prohibited
on the anniversary of His ascension.
The Guardian would advise that, if feasible, the friends should commemorate ... the Ascension of ʻAbduʼl-
Bahá … at 1:00 a.m.
Shoghi Effendi, in Principles of Bahá’í Administration, p. 56
AYYÁM-I-HÁ
The alignment of the dates of the Badí‘ calendar with other calendars will shift depending on the occurrence
of Naw-Rúz. The number of days of Ayyám-i-Há will vary according to the timing of the vernal equinox in
successive years...
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 10, 2014, to the Bahá’ís of the World, par. 7
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 8 – Holy Days and Festivals
The exchanging of presents among believers or the giving of gifts to children is not an integral part of any of
our nine Baháʼí Holy Days. There is no prohibition against it, and it is, as you say, a custom among Persian
believers such as the Baháʼí to whom you spoke, to exchange gifts at Naw-Rúz.
The desire of you and your husband to associate the time of gift giving with your childrenʼs involvement in
the faith of Baháʼuʼlláh is praiseworthy and it is felt that the following extract from a letter written by the
secretary of the beloved Guardian to the National Spiritual Assembly of Australia and New Zealand on
December 26, 1941 will be of value to you:
The intercalary days are specifically set aside for hospitality, the giving of gifts, etc., Bahá'u'lláh Himself
specified that they be used this way, but gave no explanation for it.”
In “The Baháʼí World”, Vol. XV, p. 691 we read: Baháʼuʼlláh designated those days as the Ayyám-i-Há and
ordained that they should immediately precede the month of  ̒Alá, which is the month of fasting. He enjoined
upon His followers to devote these days to feasting, rejoicing, and charity.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 18, 1982, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1023
THE BAHÁ’Í FAST
The month of fasting begins when Ayyám-i-Há ends. Bahá’ís fast from food and drink each day during the
month of ‘Alá from sunrise to sunset. The fasting period begins at sunrise on the first day of ‘Alá and extends
for nineteen days and concludes at sunset on the last day. Some believers are exempted from fasting due to
health, age or other considerations.
The alignment of  the month of ‘Alá on the Badí‘ calendar with the Gregorian dates for the start of the fast will
shift between March 1 and 2 depending on when Ayyám-i-Há ends, as described in the table of Bahá’í dates
and Gregorian equivalent set out below.
See also:
The Baháʼí Fast — Ch. 10
PREPARING FOR HOLY DAYS
By observing the Holy Days, the believers show honor and reverence for Bahá’u’lláh, the Báb and ʻAbduʼl-
Bahá. Local Spiritual Assemblies sponsor the commemorations and ensure that the programs are befitting to
the occasions. They can also use the occasion to educate the community on the history and significance of
the Day.
Some Holy Days — the Martyrdom of the Báb, the Ascension of Bahá’u’lláh, and the Ascension of ʻAbdu'l-
Bahá — should be observed in a solemn and reverent manner.
Other Holy Days — Naw-Rúz, the First, Ninth and Twelfth days of Riḍván, the Birth of the Báb and
Bahá’u’lláh, and the Declaration of the Báb — are reverent and festive.
All should rejoice together, hold general meetings, become as one assembly, so that the national oneness,
unity and harmony may be demonstrated in the eyes of all.
As it is a blessed day it should not be neglected, nor deprived of results by making it a day devoted to the
pursuit of mere pleasure.
ʻAbduʼl-Bahá, quoted from a talk given in 1912 in Alexandria, Egypt, in Baháʼuʼlláh and the New Era, p. 182
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 8 – Holy Days and Festivals
WHEN TO OBSERVE HOLY DAYS
COMMEMORATED ON GREGORIAN ANNIVERSARIES
The Bahá’í day ends and a new one begins at sunset; consequently the day on which a Feast or Holy Day is
observed begins at sunset of the day before the Gregorian date.
It is important that observations of Baháʼí Holy Days be held on their actual anniversaries at the times
specified, and not at other dates and times that appear to be more convenient for the community in the hope
of getting better attendance.
The below table has been prepared at the Bahá’í World Centre and sets out the dates for Naw-Rúz, the Twin
Holy Birthdays and Ayyám-i-Há covering half a century.
Baháʼí Dates 172 to 221 B.E.
—Dates of Naw-Rúz, the Twin Holy Birthdays, and Ayyám-i-Há
Naw-Rúz
The Birth of the Báb and The
Birth of Bahá’u’lláh
Ayyám-i-Há
Bahá’í Dates
Gregorian Equivalent
Bahá’í Dates
Gregorian Equivalent
Bahá’í Dates
Gregorian Equivalent
1 Bahá 172
21 Mar 2015
10,11 Qudrat
13, 14 Nov 2015
1-4
26-29 Feb 2016
1 Bahá 173
20 Mar 2016
18, 19 ‘Ilm
1, 2 Nov. 2016
1-4
25-28 Feb 2017
1 Bahá 174
20 Mar 2017
7, 8 ‘Ilm
21, 22 Oct 2017
1-5
25 Feb – 1 Mar 2018
1 Bahá 175
21 Mar 2018
6, 7 Qudrat
9, 10 Nov 2018
1-4
26 Feb – 1 Mar 2019
1 Bahá 176
21 Mar 2019
14, 15 ʻIlm
29, 30 Oct 2019
1-4
26-29 Feb 2020
1 Bahá 177
20 Mar 2020
4, 5 ‘Ilm
18, 19 Oct 2020
1-4
25-28 Feb 2021
1 Bahá 178
20 Mar 2021
4, 5 Qudrat
6, 7 Nov 2021
1-5
25 Feb – 1 Mar 2022
1 Bahá 179
21 Mar 2022
11, 12 ‘Ilm
26, 27 Oct 2022
1-4
26 Feb – 1 Mar 2023
1 Bahá 180
21 Mar 2023
1, 2 ‘Ilm
16, 17 Oct 2023
1-4
26-29 Feb 2024
1 Bahá 181
20 Mar 2024
19 ‘Ilm, 1 Qudrat
2, 3 Nov2024
1-4
25-28 Feb 2025
1 Bahá 182
20 Mar 2025
8, 9 ‘Ilm
22, 23 Oct 2025
1-5
25 Feb – 1 Mar 2026
1 Bahá 183
21 Mar 2026
7, 8 Qudrat
10, 11 Nov 2026
1-4
26 Feb – 1 Mar 2027
1 Bahá 184
21 Mar 2027
15, 16 ‘Ilm
30, 31 Oct 2027
1-4
26-29 Feb 2028
1 Bahá 185
20 Mar 2028
5, 6 ‘Ilm
19, 20 Oct 2028
1-4
25-28 Feb 2029
1 Bahá 186
20 Mar 2029
5, 6 Qudrat
7, 8 Nov 2029
1-4
25-28 Feb 2030
1 Bahá 187
20 Mar 2030
14, 15 ‘Ilm
28, 29 2030
1-5
25 Feb – 1 Mar 2031
1 Bahá 188
21 Mar 2031
2, 3 ‘Ilm
17, 18 Oct 2031
1-4
26-29 Feb 2032
1 Bahá 189
20 Mar 2032
2, 3 Qudrat
4, 5 Nov 2032
1-4
25-28 Feb 2033
1 Bahá 190
20 Mar 2033
10, 11 ‘Ilm
24, 25 Oct 2033
1-4
25-28 Feb 2034
1 Bahá 191
20 Mar 2034
10, 11 Qudrat
12, 13 Nov 2034
1-5
25 Feb – 1 Mar 2035
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 8 – Holy Days and Festivals
1 Bahá 192
21 Mar 2035
17, 18 ‘Ilm
1, 2 Nov 2035
1-4
26-29 Feb 2036
1 Bahá 193
20 Mar 2036
6, 7 ‘Ilm
20, 21 Oct 2036
1-4
25-28 Feb 2037
1 Bahá 194
20 Mar 2037
6, 7 Qudrat
8, 9 Nov 2037
1-4
25-28 Feb 2038
1 Bahá 195
20 Mar 2038
15, 16 ‘Ilm
29, 30 Oct 2038
1-5
25 Feb – 1 Mar 2039
1 Bahá 196
21 Mar 2039
4, 5 ‘Ilm
19, 20 Oct 2039
1-4
26-29 Feb 2040
1 Bahá 197
20 Mar 2040
4, 5 Qudrat
6, 7 Nov 2040
1-4
25-28 Feb 2041
1 Bahá 198
20 Mar 2041
12, 13 ‘Ilm
26, 27 Oct 2041
1-4
25-28 Feb 2042
1 Bahá 199
20 Mar 2042
1, 2 ‘Ilm
15, 16 Oct 2042
1-5
25 Feb – 1 Mar 2043
1 Bahá 200
21 Mar 2043
19 ‘Ilm, 1 Qudrat
3, 4 Nov 2043
1-4
26-29 Feb 2044
1 Bahá 201
20 Mar 2044
8, 9 ‘Ilm
22, 23 Oct 2044
1-4
25-28 Feb 2045
1 Bahá 202
20 Mar 2045
8, 9 Qudrat
10, 11 Nov 2045
1-4
25-28 Feb 2046
1 Bahá 203
20 Mar 2046
16, 17 ‘Ilm
30, 31 Oct 2046
1-5
25 Feb – 1 Mar 2047
1 Bahá 204
21 Mar 2047
5, 6 ‘Ilm
20, 21 Oct 2047
1-4
26-29 Feb 2048
1 Bahá 205
20 Mar 2048
5, 6 Qudrat
7, 8 Nov 2048
1-4
25-28 Feb 2049
1 Bahá 206
20 Mar 2049
14, 15 ‘Ilm
28, 29 Oct 2049
1-4
25-28 Feb 2050
1 Bahá 207
20 Mar 2050
3, 4 ‘Ilm
17, 18 Oct 2050
1-5
25 Feb – 1 Mar 2051
1 Bahá 208
21 Mar 2051
2, 3 Qudrat
5, 6 Nov 2051
1-4
26-29 Feb 2052
1 Bahá 209
20 Mar 2052
10, 11 ‘Ilm
24, 25 Oct 2052
1-4
25-28 Feb 2053
1 Bahá 210
20 Mar 2053
9, 10 Qudrat
11, 12 Nov 2053
1-4
25-28 Feb 2054
1 Bahá 211
20 Mar 2054
18, 19 ‘Ilm
1, 2 Nov 2054
1-5
25 Feb – 1 Mar 2055
1 Bahá 212
21 Mar 2055
6, 7 ‘Ilm
21, 22 Oct 2055
1-4
26-29 Feb 2056
1 Bahá 213
20 Mar 2056
6, 7 Qudrat
8, 9 Nov 2056
1-4
25-28 Feb 2057
1 Bahá 214
20 Mar 2057
15, 16 ‘Ilm
29, 30 Oct 2057
1-4
25-28 Feb 2058
1 Bahá 215
20 Mar 2058
4, 5 ‘Ilm
18, 19 Oct 2058
1-4
25-28 Feb 2059
1 Bahá 216
20 Mar 2059
4, 5 Qudrat
6, 7 Nov 2059
1-5
25-29 Feb 2060
1 Bahá 217
20 Mar 2060
11, 12 ‘Ilm
25, 26 Oct 2060
1-4
25-28 Feb 2061
1 Bahá 218
20 Mar 2061
19 Mashíyyat, 1
‘Ilm
14, 15 Oct 2061
1-4
25-28 Feb 2062
1 Bahá 219
20 Mar 2062
19 ‘Ilm, 1 Qudrat
2, 3 Nov 2062
1-4
25-28 Feb 2063
1 Bahá 220
20 Mar 2063
9, 10 ‘Ilm
23, 24 Oct 2063
1-5
25-29 Feb 2064
1 Bahá 221
20 Mar 2064
8, 9 Qudrat
10, 11 Nov 2064
1-4
25-28 Feb 2065
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 8 – Holy Days and Festivals
—Other Significant Baháʼí Dates (Holy Days and Feasts)
Bahá’í Dates
Gregorian Equivalent
Other Holy Days
In a year when Naw-Rúz
is the same as 20 March
In a year when Naw-Rúz
is the same as 21 March
*First Day of Ridván—3:00 p.m.
13 Jalál
20 April
21 April
Ninth Day of Ridván
2 Jamál
28 April
29 April
Twelfth Day of Ridván
5 Jamál
1 May
2 May
Declaration of the Báb—2 hrs. after sunset
8 ‘Azamat
23 May
24 May
*Ascension of Bahá’u’lláh—3:00 a.m.
13 ‘Azamat
28 May
29 May
*Martyrdom of the Báb—noon
17 ‘Azamat
9 July
10 July
Day of the Covenant
4 Qawl
25 November
26 November
*Ascension of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá—1:00 a.m.
6 Qawl
27 November
28 November
*When Daylight Saving Time is in effect, the times for Holy Day
commemorations are held one hour later than the time specified.
Bahá’í Dates for Feasts
Gregorian Equivalent
The Bahá’í day ends and a new one begins at sunset; consequently the day
on which a Feast or Holy Day is observed begins at sunset of the day before
the Gregorian equivalent date stated.
In a year when Naw-Rúz
is the same as 20 March
In a year when Naw-Rúz
is the same as 21 March
Bahá (Splendour)
1 Bahá
20 March
21 March
Jalál (Glory)
1 Jalál
8 April
9 April
Jamál (Beauty)
1 Jamál
27 April
28 April
‘Azamat (Grandeur)
1 ‘Azamat
16 May
17 May
Núr (Light)
1 Núr
4 June
5 June
Rahmat (Mercy)
1 Rahmat
23 June
24 June
Kalimát (Words)
1 Kalimát
12 July
13 July
Kamál (Perfection)
1 Kamál
31 July
1 August
Asmá’ (Names)
1 Asmá’
19 August
20 August
‘Izzat (Might)
1 ‘Izzat
7 September
8 September
Mashíyyát (Will)
1 Mashiyyát
26 September
27 September
‘Ilm (Knowledge)
1 ‘Ilm
15 October
16 October
Qudrat (Power)
1 Qudrat
3 November
4 November
Qawl (Speech)
1 Qawl
22 November
23 November
Masá’il (Questions)
1 Masá’il
11 December
12 December
Sharaf (Honour)
1 Sharaf
30 December
31 December
Sultán
1 Sultán
18 January
19 January
Mulk (Dominion)
1 Mulk
6 February
7 February
‘Aláʼ (Loftiness)
1 ‘Alá’
(see below)
(see below)
The Fast
The month of ‘Aláʼ
1-19 ‘Alá’
The month of fasting begins when Ayyám-i-Há ends.
The dates for Ayyám-i-Há are given in the Table above.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 8 – Holy Days and Festivals
TIMES OF DAY FOR COMMEMORATIVE EVENTS
Regarding your question of the proper time to celebrate or hold our meetings of commemoration: the time
should be fixed by counting after sunset; the Master passed away one hour after midnight, which falls a
certain number of hours after sunset; so His passing should be commemorated according to the sun and
regardless of daylight saving time. The same applies to the Ascension of Bahá’u’lláh who passed away about
eight hours after sunset.
Shoghi Effendi, in Principles of Bahá’í Administration, pp. 56–57
As the Guardian indicated, the commemoration of the Ascension of Bahá’u’lláh should be held, if feasible, at
3 a.m. … and that of the Ascension of  ̒Abduʼl-Bahá at 1 a.m. ... These times should be measured according to
standard time in each area. If daylight saving time is being used in the country, the commemorations should
continue to be observed according to standard time.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated March 15, 1992, to a National Spiritual Assembly
In areas of the country where Daylight Saving Time is observed, clocks are set one hour ahead of standard
time in the spring and, in the fall, clocks are set back to standard time. Therefore, during the part of the year
when Daylight Saving Time is in effect, the times for Holy Day commemorations are held one hour later than
the times specified by the Guardian. For example, the anniversary of the Ascension of Baháʼuʼlláh should be
commemorated at 4 a.m. Daylight Saving Time (which corresponds to 3 a.m. Standard Time), and the
anniversary of the Martyrdom of the Báb should be commemorated at 1 p.m. Daylight Saving Time (which
corresponds to noon Standard Time).
OTHER CONSIDERATIONS RELATED TO OBSERVANCE
OF HOLY DAYS
RECITATION OF TABLETS OF VISITATION
In answer to an earlier letter on this subject, the House of Justice stated that nothing has been found in the
Writings requiring the believers to stand and face the Qiblíh every time the Tablets of Visitation are recited.
The House of Justice feels that it is very important that no issue be made about such minor details. When,
however, one is actually in, or within the precincts of one of the Holy Shrines, it is an act of simple reverence
to stand and face the Shrine when the Tablet of Visitation is recited.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 21, 1994, to a Local Spiritual Assembly
Your email message of 18 July 1995 to ... at the Bahá’í World Center, asking whether it is mandatory for the
Tablets of Visitation to be read on the occasion of the Ascension of Bahá’u’lláh or the Martyrdom of the Báb,
was referred to our Department for reply. In a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to an
individual believer, it is stated, while it is only natural for the friends to recite these Tablets on the
anniversaries associated with the Central Figures of our Faith, no texts have been located by the Research
Department of the House of Justice which make the use of these Tablets obligatory.
Email written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 31, 1995, to an individual believer
The commemorative program should be scheduled according to standard time rather than daylight saving
time. However, the time at which the Tablet of Visitation is read during the program is left to the discretion of
the Local Assembly.
Email written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 25, 1997, to an individual
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 8 – Holy Days and Festivals
SUSPENSION OF WORK AND SCHOOL
Nine Days Relating to the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh
The days pertaining to the Abhá Beauty (Bahá’u’lláh) and the Primal Point (the Báb), that is to say these nine
days, are the only ones on which work connected with trade, commerce, industry and agriculture is not
allowed. In like manner, work connected with any form of employment, whether governmental or otherwise,
should be suspended.
̒Abduʼl-Bahá, in The Bahá’í World, 1936-1938, Vol. VII, p. 537
Being Excused from Work
He wishes also to stress the fact that, according to our Bahá’í laws, work is forbidden on our Nine Holy
Days. Believers who have independent businesses or shops should refrain from working on these days. Those
who are in government employ should, on religious grounds, make an effort to be excused from work; all
believers, whoever their employers, should do likewise. If the government, or other employers, refuse to grant
them these days off, they are not required to forfeit their employment, but they should make every effort to
have the independent status of their Faith recognized and their right to hold their own religious Holy Days
acknowledged.
Shoghi Effendi, in Principles of Bahá’í Administration, p. 55
A Baháʼí Holy Day explanation letter from the National Spiritual Assembly to employers is downloadable from
Form and Manuals - Office of Community Administration section of the national Bahá’í community website.
Bahá’í Institutions
This distinction between institutions that are under full or partial Bahá’í control is of fundamental
importance. Institutions that are entirely managed by Bahá’ís are, for reasons that are only too obvious, under
the obligation of enforcing all the laws and ordinances of the Faith, especially those whose observance
constitutes a matter of conscience. There is no reason, no justification whatever, that they should act
otherwise. ... The point which should be always remembered is that the issue in question is essentially a
matter of conscience, and as such is of a binding effect upon all believers.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 2, 1935, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 29.2b
The basic principle that institutions that are entirely managed by Bahá’ís are under the obligation of obeying
the Bahá’í laws regarding the observance of Holy Days is clear. A problem, however, arises in relation to
service institutions and work of a service nature that cannot be postponed.
There are, of course, many Bahá’í activities that are carried on the Holy Days in addition to the celebration of
the Holy Days themselves, such as the election of Local Spiritual Assemblies on the First Day of Ridván, the
holding of the National Convention, which may well coincide with one or more Holy Days, and other
praiseworthy activities. It is not this kind of “work” that is prohibited. Thus, there would be no objection to
the holding of sessions of a Summer School or Weekend School on a Holy Day — although they might well
be modified in form in recognition of the particular day, and would give time for the actual commemoration.
In light of these considerations, and others drawn from the Sacred Texts, the House of Justice advises that, in
the case of the Landegg Conference Center, the work performed during a Bahá’í Holy Day by the household
staff, whether Bahá’í or non-Bahá’í, should be reduced to the minimum necessary to provide the normal
essential services, including, of course, the work needed in connection with the celebration of the Holy Day
itself. When the Manager is scheduling the booking of the premises to non-Bahá’í groups he should either try
to arrange that the period of letting does not include a Bahá’í Holy Day or, if it does, he should explain to the
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 8 – Holy Days and Festivals
group at the time of booking that there will be limited service rendered by the staff on the Holy Day. Of
course, if no events are scheduled at the Center on a Bahá’í Holy Day, it would be possible to close the Center
on that day.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 3, 1984, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Businesses Owned by Bahá’ís
As you are well aware, not only should Bahá’ís refrain from work on the nine Holy Days, but the shops and
establishments owned by Bahá’ís should also be closed on these Days. If government regulations do not
require the station to be on the air on a mandatory daily basis, Radio Bahá’í should not engage in regular
broadcasts on the nine Holy Days. However, to aid the Bahá’í Community in its observance of any one of
these Days, the station may offer at a particular time a special program suited to such observance. Those
wishing to be involved in the production and airing of the program would be rendering a special service.
You have no doubt noted that since the Bahá’í day begins at sunset and ends at the following sunset, no
Gregorian day would be fully taken up by the observance of any one of the nine Bahá’í Holy Days; thus there
is time to broadcast regular programs every day of the Gregorian year. The station naturally will inform its
listeners of the meaning of each Holy Day well in advance so that they can appreciate the reason for the
station’s silence on such a Day.
The House of Justice feels that this confirmation of the religious character of the station would be a means of
teaching, a source of encouragement to the believers and a model for their emulation.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 6, 1986, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The Universal House of Justice has received your letter of 17 November 1975 and in reply to your specific
question, “May our Bahá’í-owned retail mattress store remain open in the care of our non-Bahá’í employees
on the Holy Days when we refrain from working?”, has instructed us to say that in shops or stores owned by
Bahá’ís, the fact that they may have non-Bahá’ís in employment does not exempt the Bahá’í owners from
closing their businesses on Bahá’í Holy Days.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated November 30, 1975, to an individual believer
Suspension of Bahá’í Administrative Activities
Concerning the suspension of Bahá’í administrative activities on Bahá’í Holy Days, we have found the texts
of the Guardian’s instructions in which he says that the work of Local Assemblies, committees and other
institutions of the Faith preferably should be suspended, but that the final decision rests with the Universal
House of Justice.
We feel that the time is not yet ripe to add anything further, and therefore we leave the application of the
above instructions of the Guardian to your National Assembly.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 3, 1969, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 29.3-29.3a
Children Should Be Excused from School
[S]teps should be taken to have Bahá’í children excused, on religious grounds, from attending school on
Bahá’í Holy Days wherever possible. The Guardian has said:
Regarding children: at fifteen a Bahá’í is of age as far as keeping the laws of the Aqdas is concerned —
prayer, fasting, etc. But children under fifteen should certainly observe the Bahá’í Holy Days, and not go to
school, if this can be arranged on these nine days.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in Messages from the Universal House of Justice
1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, no. 29
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 8 – Holy Days and Festivals
It is the responsibility of the Local Spiritual Assembly and Bahá’í parents to ensure that children observe
Bahá’í Holy Days in ways that are meaningful to them educationally and spiritually.
A letter from the National Spiritual Assembly that can be given to the student’s teacher(s) or principal at the
beginning of the school year explaining Baháʼí Holy Days is downloadable from Form and Manuals - Office of
Community Administration section of the national Bahá’í community website.
Revised April 2016

9. PROTECTION OF THE FAITH .....................................................................................................................................2
THE COVENANT ..........................................................................................................................................................2
THE GREATER AND LESSER COVENANTS .........................................................................................................2
Continuance of the Covenant ...............................................................................................................................2
The Passing of Shoghi Effendi .............................................................................................................................3
COVENANT-BREAKING ..........................................................................................................................................3
The Nature of Covenant-breaking ........................................................................................................................3
What Covenant-breaking Is ..............................................................................................................................3
What Covenant-breaking Is Not .......................................................................................................................3
Who Determines Whether a Believer Has Broken the Covenant .........................................................................4
Response of the Believers to Covenant-breaking ................................................................................................4
Meetings at Which Covenant-breakers Are Present ........................................................................................4
Former Bahá'ís who Associate with Covenant-breakers ..................................................................................5
Books Written by Covenant-breakers and Enemies of the Cause ...................................................................5
Mail from Covenant-breakers ...........................................................................................................................6
Responsibility of Assembly to Report Covenant-breaking Activities ....................................................................6
Covenant-breakers on the Internet .......................................................................................................................6
General Principles ............................................................................................................................................6
Electronic Forums .............................................................................................................................................6
Email from Covenant-breakers .........................................................................................................................7
Covenant-breaker Websites .............................................................................................................................7
Role of Auxiliary Boards for Protection .................................................................................................................8
DAMAGING BEHAVIOR OF INDIVIDUALS ................................................................................................................8
PRETENDING TO BE BAHÁ’Í FOR PURPOSES OF IMMIGRATION .....................................................................8
REPORTING VIOLATIONS OF CIVIL OR CRIMINAL LAW .....................................................................................9
OPPOSITION TO THE FAITH ......................................................................................................................................9
OPPOSITION IS INEVITABLE STAGE IN UNFOLDMENT OF THE FAITH ............................................................9
OPPOSITION AND THE PLAN OF GOD .............................................................................................................. 10
SOURCES OF OPPOSITION ................................................................................................................................ 10
FORMS OPPOSITION WILL TAKE ........................................................................................................................ 11
RESPONSE OF THE BELIEVERS TO OPPOSITION ........................................................................................... 11
RESPONSE OF THE ASSEMBLY TO OPPOSITION ........................................................................................... 12
TRIUMPH OF THE CAUSE OF GOD .................................................................................................................... 12
PRESERVATION OF SACRED RELICS ................................................................................................................... 13
REVERENCE IN HANDLING SACRED OBJECTS .............................................................................................. 13
REVIEWING BAHÁ’Í LITERATURE AND MATERIALS ........................................................................................... 14
PURPOSE AND CRITERIA ................................................................................................................................... 14
QUOTING FROM BAHÁ’Í WRITINGS ................................................................................................................... 15
APPROVAL NOTICE ............................................................................................................................................. 16
PERSIAN LANGUAGE MATERIALS ..................................................................................................................... 16
MUSIC ................................................................................................................................................................... 16
REVERENCE AND DIGNITY ................................................................................................................................ 16
Portrayals of Holy Figures ................................................................................................................................. 16
Pictures and Portraits of Manifestations of God ................................................................................................ 17
Pictures and Portraits of 'Abdu'l-Bahá ............................................................................................................... 17
Record and Film of Άbdu'l-Bahá ........................................................................................................................ 17
USE OF THE GREATEST NAME .......................................................................................................................... 18
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 9 – Protection of the Faith
9. PROTECTION OF THE FAITH
THE COVENANT
Know this for a certainty that today, the penetrative power in the arteries of the world of humanity is the
power of the Covenant. The body of the world will not be moved through any power except through the
power of the Covenant. There is no other power like unto this. This Spirit of the Covenant is the real Center of
love and is reflecting its rays to all parts of the globe, which are resuscitating and regenerating man and
illuminating the path to the Divine Kingdom.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, in The Covenant of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 71
THE GREATER AND LESSER COVENANTS
There is, for example, the Greater Covenant which every Manifestation of God makes with His followers,
promising that in the fullness of time a new Manifestation will be sent, and taking from them the undertaking
to accept Him when this occurs. There is also the Lesser Covenant that a Manifestation of God makes with
His followers that they will accept His appointed successor after Him. If they do so, the Faith can remain
united and pure. If not, the Faith becomes divided and its force spent. It is a Covenant of this kind that
Bahá’u’lláh made with His followers regarding Άbdu'l-Bahá, and that Άbdu'l-Bahá perpetuated through the
Administrative Order ...
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 3, 1975, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, p. 111
Continuance of the Covenant
O my loving friends! After the passing away of this wronged one, it is incumbent upon the Aghsán
(Branches), the Afnán (Twigs) of the Sacred Lote-Tree, the Hands (pillars) of the Cause of God and the loved
ones of the Abhá Beauty to turn unto Shoghi Effendi — the youthful branch branched from the two hallowed
and sacred Lote-Trees and the fruit grown from the union of the two offshoots of the Tree of Holiness, — as
he is the sign of God, the chosen branch, the guardian of the Cause of God, he unto whom all the Aghsán, the
Afnán, the Hands of the Cause of God and His loved ones must turn. He is the Interpreter of the Word of God
and after him will succeed the first-born of his lineal descendants.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Will and Testament of Άbdu'l-Bahá, p. 11
Unto the Most Holy Book every one must turn and all that is not expressly recorded therein must be referred
to the Universal House of Justice. That which this body, whether unanimously or by a majority doth carry,
that is verily the Truth and the Purpose of God Himself.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Will and Testament of Άbdu'l-Bahá, p. 19
They [Bahá’u’lláh and Άbdu'l-Bahá] have also, in unequivocal and emphatic language, appointed those twin
institutions of the House of Justice and of the Guardianship as their chosen Successors, destined to apply the
principles, promulgate the laws, protect the institutions, adapt loyally and intelligently the Faith to the
requirements of progressive society, and consummate the incorruptible inheritance which the Founders of the
Faith have bequeathed to the world.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 19–20
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 9 – Protection of the Faith
The Passing of Shoghi Effendi
After prayerful and careful study of the Holy Texts bearing upon the question of the appointment of the
successor to Shoghi Effendi as Guardian of the Cause of God, and after prolonged consultation which
included consideration of the view of the Hands of the Cause of God residing in the Holy Land, the Universal
House of Justice finds that there is no way to appoint or to legislate to make it possible to appoint a second
Guardian to succeed Shoghi Effendi.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated October 6, 1963, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in Messages from the
Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 5.1
The passing of Shoghi Effendi and the break of the expected continuation of the line of Guardians raised
many questions among the believers. Detailed letters addressing many of these questions can be found in
Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, pages 37-
43, 50-58, 83-90 and pages 156-161
COVENANT-BREAKING
The Nature of Covenant-breaking
What Covenant-breaking Is
Every Bahá’í is at liberty, nay is urged, to freely express his opinion and his understanding of the Teachings,
but all this is in a totally different category from that of a Bahá’í who opposes the clear Teachings of
Bahá’u’lláh or who asserts his own opinion as an authoritative and correct interpretation of the teachings, and
attacks or opposes the very Institutions which Bahá’u’lláh has created to protect His Covenant. When a
person declares his acceptance of Bahá’u’lláh as a Manifestation of God he becomes a party to the Covenant
and accepts the totality of His Revelation. If he then turns round and attacks Bahá’u’lláh or the Central
Institution of the Faith he violates the Covenant. If this happens every effort is made to help that person to see
the illogicality and error of his actions, but if he persists he must, in accordance with the instructions of
Bahá’u’lláh Himself, be shunned as a Covenant-breaker.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 23, 1975, to an individual believer
What Covenant-breaking Is Not
It is important to understand what Covenant-breaking is not. The following categories of action do not
constitute Covenant-breaking:
•
Breaking Bahá’í law: Those who break Bahá'í law may suffer administrative and/or spiritual
consequences for their actions but violation of Bahá'í law is not the same as Covenant-breaking.
•
Rejecting Bahá’u’lláh’s claim to be a Manifestation of God: Those who reject Bahá'u'lláh are not
believers and, never having agreed to the Covenant, cannot break it.
•
Withdrawing from the Faith: Those who withdraw from the Faith, having lost their belief or never really
believed in the first place, are to be regarded no differently than others who are not believers.
Generally speaking, Bahá'ís are free to associate with individuals in any of the above categories as they
would with anyone else. Rare exceptions are former Bahá'ís who knowingly associate themselves with
Covenant-breakers and individuals who have never enrolled in the Faith but who support Covenant-breaker
claims. In those two cases only, Bahá'ís should avoid association with those individuals as they would
Covenant-breakers.
In principle, no person can be considered a Covenant-breaker unless he has been so designated by the Head of
the Faith. However, it is strongly advised not to associate with those who have fallen under the pernicious
influence of groups such as the "Orthodox Bahá'ís". They are infected with the spirit of Covenant-breaking,
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 9 – Protection of the Faith
even if they are not all designated as such. Accordingly, the friends should not answer queries from
individuals who obviously seek to draw them into the consideration of the spurious claims and logic of the
Covenant-breakers.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 3, 1997, to an individual, in Electronic Communication with
Covenant-breakers
See also:
Criteria for Withdrawal — Ch. 5
Covenant-breaking — Former Bahá'ís Who Associate with Covenant-breakers — Ch. 9
Ch. 10, Application of Bahá'í Law
Who Determines Whether a Believer Has Broken the Covenant
The International Teaching Centre is invested with the mandate to watch over the security and ensure the
protection of the Faith of God. It must investigate all cases of incipient Covenant-breaking — employing, as
necessary, the services of the Continental Counsellors and their auxiliaries and evaluating their reports — and
decide whether the offender should be expelled from the Cause, submitting the decision to the Universal
House of Justice for its consideration. It follows a similar procedure for the reinstatement of a contrite
Covenant-breaker.
Document prepared by the Universal House of Justice, dated January 1, 2001, “The Institution of the Counsellors”, p. 4
Response of the Believers to Covenant-breaking
One of the greatest and most fundamental principles of the Cause of God is to shun and avoid entirely the
Covenant-breakers, for they will utterly destroy the Cause of God, exterminate His Law and render of no
account all efforts exerted in the past.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Will and Testament of Άbdu'l-Bahá, p. 20
Bahá’u’lláh and the Master in many places and very emphatically have told us to shun entirely all Covenant-
breakers ... [T]hey have also told us, however, to pray for them. These souls are not lost forever. In the Aqdas,
Bahá’u’lláh says that God will forgive Mírzá Yahyá if he repents. It follows, therefore, that God will forgive
any soul if he repents. Most of them don’t want to repent, unfortunately ...
Also, it has nothing to do with unity in the Cause; if a man cuts a cancer out of his body to preserve his health
and very life, no one would suggest that for the sake of “unity” it should be reintroduced into the otherwise
healthy organism!
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated November 28, 1944, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 604
Never be depressed. The more ye are stirred by violation, the more deepen ye in firmness and steadfastness,
and be assured that the divine hosts shall conquer, for they are assured of the victory of the Abhá Kingdom.
Throughout all regions the standard of firmness and steadfastness is upraised and the flag of violation is
debased, for only a few weak souls have been led away by the flattery and the specious arguments of the
violators who are outwardly with the greatest care exhibiting firmness but inwardly are engaged in agitating
souls. Only a few who are the leaders of those who stir and agitate are outwardly known as violators while the
rest, through subtle means, deceive the souls, for outwardly they assert their firmness and steadfastness in the
Covenant but when they come across responsive ears they secretly sow the seeds of suspicion.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Άbdu'l-Bahá, pp. 211–212
Meetings at Which Covenant-breakers Are Present
With regard to avoiding association with declared Covenant-breakers, Shoghi Effendi says that this does not
mean that if one or more of these attends a non-Bahá’í meeting any Bahá’ís present should feel compelled to
leave the meeting or to refuse to take part in the meeting, especially if that part has been prearranged. Also if
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 9 – Protection of the Faith
in the course of some business transaction it should become necessary to negotiate with one of these people,
in order to clear up the business, that is permissible, provided the association is confined to the matter of the
business in hand. It is different if one of these people should come to a Bahá’í meeting. Then it would become
necessary to ask him in a most tactful and dignified way to leave the meeting as Bahá’ís are forbidden to
associate with him.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated May 16, 1925, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 610
Former Bahá'ís who Associate with Covenant-breakers
There is no excuse for believers continuing to associate with ... and those who, knowing everything, still
insist on doing so, should be shunned by their fellow-Bahá'ís. The same applies to people who have left the
Cause and associate with ...The point is that if the believers know and meet with people who are acquainted
with Covenant-breakers there is no harm in this, for such individuals are not Bahá'ís and have nothing to do
with the issues concerned. But those who have left the Cause, knowing all about such matters, and
deliberately associate with Covenant-breakers, are well aware of what they do, and we must not associate
with them at all. It is for the Local Assembly, guided by the N.S.A., to enforce such decisions and protect the
Cause in its area of jurisdiction.
The friends should, without too much dwelling on these negative things, be made to understand that some
people are spiritually sick and that their disease is, alas, contagious. Some recover from it, as did Mr. ... whose
heart could not rest till he returned to the fold; others do not. The Master and Bahá'u'lláh have taught us that
associating with these souls is not likely to heal them at all, but on the contrary exposes one to grave danger
of contagion. The history of the Faith has proved this over and over again. The only way we can prove to such
people that they are wrong is to censure their conduct; if we sympathise with them we only fortify their
perversity and waywardness.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated January 23, 1945, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 609
Books Written by Covenant-breakers and Enemies of the Cause
It is better not to read books by Covenant-breakers because they are haters of the Light, sufferers from a
spiritual leprosy, so to speak. But books by well meaning and unenlightened enemies of the Cause can be read
so as to refute their charges.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 19, 1945, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 628
To read the writings of Covenant-breakers is not forbidden to the believers and does not constitute in itself an
act of Covenant-breaking. Indeed, some of the Bahá’ís have the unpleasant duty to read such literature as part
of their responsibilities for protecting the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh. However, the friends are warned in the
strongest terms against reading such literature because Covenant-breaking is a spiritual poison and the
calumnies and distortions of the truth which the Covenant-breakers give out are such that they can undermine
the faith of the believer and plant the seeds of doubt unless he is fore-armed with an unshakable belief in
Bahá’u’lláh and His Covenant and a knowledge of the true facts.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated October 29, 1974, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 611
In reply to your letter of September 20, 1975, the Universal House of Justice instructs us to say that the
friends should be advised to ignore these books and any similar ones which might be written by enemies of
the Faith. There should certainly be no attempt made to destroy or remove such books from libraries. On the
other hand, there is no need at all for the friends to acquire them and, indeed the best plan is to ignore them
entirely.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 2, 1975, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 627
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 9 – Protection of the Faith
Mail from Covenant-breakers
From time to time, Covenant-breakers send material to believers whose names and addresses they have
obtained. If the friends receive mail from Covenant-breakers, they should not allow themselves to become
upset by this but should simply give it to their Local Spiritual Assemblies or Auxiliary Board members for
Protection.
Responsibility of Assembly to Report Covenant-breaking Activities
If a Local Spiritual Assembly learns of any Covenant-breaking activity in its community, it should immediately
inform its Auxiliary Board member for Protection and the National Spiritual Assembly.
Covenant-breakers on the Internet
General Principles
There is an ever increasing use by believers of the Internet and other available computer based means of
communication. These open unlimited possibilities for continuous proclamation and teaching, bringing the
Creative Word and the Sacred Writings as well as the ideas of individual believers to hearts and minds
everywhere. It also offers easy access to these same believers by those whose purpose is to undermine their
faith. By being constantly alert we are able to encourage the use of this medium by the friends while ensuring
their protection from those who would prey on them.
Letter from the International Teaching Center, dated May 11, 1995, to a Continental Counselor, in Electronic Communication with
Covenant-breakers
More generally, while it is disconcerting that Covenant-breaker material is being disseminated on the
Internet, there is little that can or should be done to directly oppose such dissemination. Rather, the greatest
protection to the Cause will be through ongoing deepening of the Bahá'í community in the Covenant and the
history and teachings of the Faith. An important role that the Internet can play in this regard is to make
authentic Bahá'í literature, on the Covenant and on Bahá'í teachings generally, easily available.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 19, 1997, to an individual believer, in Electronic
Communication with Covenant-breakers
It is not possible to provide you with a list of Internet addresses of Covenant-breaker groups as you have
requested, as no such listing is being maintained at the Bahá'í World Centre at this time. Any plans that you
have to alert the friends to Covenant-breaker activity on the Internet should, of course, be undertaken with
wisdom and discretion so as to avoid giving Covenant-breakers more attention or prominence than they
would otherwise receive.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 4, 1997, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Electronic
Communication with Covenant-breakers
Electronic Forums
Participation by enemies of the Faith or members of Covenant-breaker groups may, indeed, occur in the
dialogue on electronic forums. It is not advisable for the institutions of the Faith or its individual members to
become directly involved in such discussion. It is neither wise nor possible to interfere with postings on
public forums, but if it is observed that such activity is taking place on Bahá'í-only forums National
Assemblies should be alerted so that they may provide appropriate advice to the administrator of the forum.
The greatest protection to the Faith will not be through intervention on either open or closed electronic
forums, but through ongoing deepening of the Bahá'í community in the Covenant and the history and
Teachings of the Faith.
Email from the International Teaching Center, dated February 24, 1995, to a Continental Board of Counselors
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 9 – Protection of the Faith
Regarding your concerns about Covenant-breakers participating in and posting material to the “Bahá'í
Forum” on America Online (AOL), you should, of course, scrupulously and impartially uphold the rules of
AOL's “Religion and Beliefs” area. You may warn the friends about interaction with Covenant-breakers if you
feel it to be appropriate and if you can do so without violating the impartiality that you, as Forum manager,
must demonstrate.
With respect to your concerns about your own contact with Covenant-breakers, you should feel no trepidation
at having to interact with them in this particular situation and, if necessary, to read their postings. It is
suggested, however, that your contact with them be kept to a minimum, as strictly required by your
obligations as Forum manager. You will want to resist any temptation to be drawn into discussions or
consideration of the arguments which they may advance.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 28, 1998, to an individual believer, in Electronic
Communication with Covenant-breakers
The Universal House of Justice feels that, when Bahá’ís are teaching in an online “chat room” and Covenant-
breakers intrude upon the discussion, the friends should not feel obliged to sign off simply because Covenant-
breakers are present in this virtual space. They should, however, refrain from knowingly engaging the
Covenant-breakers in discussions and, in any case, should avoid being drawn into contentious or disputatious
situations.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 27, 1997, to an individual believer
See also:
Disputes — Ch. 14
Email from Covenant-breakers
[R]egarding the Covenant-breaking material sent to your personal email account.
The House of Justice is aware of such activities on the part of Covenant-breakers, and while it is closely
following this issue, it sees no cause for undue concern. The friends should, of course, ignore any materials
produced by Covenant-breakers which they may receive unsolicited by email or happen on while exploring
the World Wide Web. With regard to your concerns over the content of the message, you are advised to turn to
your Local Spiritual Assembly or an Auxiliary Board member for assistance in dealing with the spurious
claims advanced in that message.
The best countermeasure to Covenant-breaker initiatives and the greatest protection for the Cause is for the
believers to acquire a deeper appreciation of the station and purpose of Bahá'u'lláh and to become well-
grounded in His Covenant.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 7, 1997, to an individual believer, in Electronic
Communication with Covenant-breakers
Believers who receive electronic communications from Covenant-breakers should request that their internet
service providers block future mail from those addresses.
Covenant-breaker Websites
Your faxed message dated 14 May 1997, requesting guidance concerning the attention given by the friends to
postings by Covenant-breakers on the Internet, was received by the Universal House of Justice and referred to
our Department for reply.
The House of Justice is aware of the electronic postings on the Internet by Covenant-breakers. While it is
closely following this issue, it sees no cause for undue concern. “The Bahá'í World”, a website developed by
the Bahá'í International Community's Office of Public Information, was launched in July 1996. It, together
with a range of specialized Bahá'í Internet presentations such as the new "One Country" site, now provides
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 9 – Protection of the Faith
individuals interested in learning about the Bahá'í Faith with a large and ever-expanding body of authentic
material on the Faith, attractively presented and illustrated. Sites maintained by Covenant-breaker groups will
have a diminishing impact in the context of the information deluge on the Internet and against the background
of the authorized Bahá'í source now accessible.
The greatest protection to the Cause will, of course, be through ongoing deepening of the Bahá'í community
in the Covenant and the history and teachings of the Faith. To facilitate this, you may wish to bring attention
to the availability of the Sacred Text on the website “The Bahá'í World” and on the Bahá'í World Centre FTP
server.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 4, 1997, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Electronic
Communication with Covenant-breakers
The National Spiritual Assembly does not maintain a list of websites to avoid.
Role of Auxiliary Boards for Protection
The need to protect the Faith from the attacks of its enemies is not generally appreciated by the friends
because such attacks, particularly in the West, have so far been intermittent. However, we know that these
attacks will increase and will become concerted and universal. The writings of our Faith clearly foreshadow
not only an intensification of the machinations of internal enemies, but a rise in the hostility and opposition of
its external enemies, whether religious or secular, as our beloved Faith pursues its onward march towards
ultimate victory. Therefore, in the light of the warning of Shoghi Effendi, the Auxiliary Boards for Protection
should keep “constantly” a “watchful eye” on those “who are known to be enemies or to have been put out of
the Faith,” discreetly “investigate” their activities, warn intelligently the friends of the opposition inevitably to
come, explain how each crisis in God’s Faith has always proved to be a blessing in disguise, prepare them for
the “dire contests” which are “destined to range the Army of Light against the forces of darkness,” and, when
the influence of the enemies spreads and reaches their fold, the members of these Auxiliary Boards should be
alert to their schemes to “dampen the zeal and sap the loyalty” of the believers and, by adopting “wise and
effective measures,” counteract these schemes and arrest the spread of their influence. Above all, the members
of the Protection Boards should concentrate on deepening the friends’ knowledge of the Covenant and
increasing their love and loyalty to it, on clearly and frankly answering, in conformity with the teachings,
whatever questions may trouble any of the believers, on fostering the spiritual profundity and strength of their
Faith and certitude, and on promoting whatever will increase the spirit of loving unity in Bahá’í communities.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated October 10, 1976, to the International Teaching Center, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1112
You are free at any time to refer to the Continental Boards of Counsellor and the Auxiliary Board members
for protection any matters about which you are not clear involving the security of the Faith in your area and
you will always find them willing to assist you in dealing with such problems.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 1, 1979, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1132
See also:
Auxiliary Board Members — Ch. 1
DAMAGING BEHAVIOR OF INDIVIDUALS
PRETENDING TO BE BAHÁ’Í FOR PURPOSES OF IMMIGRATION
Occasionally situations arise in which people falsely represent themselves as Bahá'ís for the purposes of
obtaining assistance with immigration matters. Issues of this kind are complicated and sensitive, and
providing adequate, appropriate guidance in such cases requires specific knowledge of recent developments
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 9 – Protection of the Faith
in refugee matters and familiarity with the latest guidance from the Universal House of Justice. If handled
improperly or naively, there is the risk of causing injury to the good reputation of the Faith and to fellow
believers. For these reasons, Local Spiritual Assemblies must avoid becoming involved in legal matters of
immigration, asylum or refugee status.
Requests for clarification concerning a person’s membership in the Faith should be referred to the Office of
Membership and Records at membership@usbnc.org. If the matter is urgent the Office of Membership and
Records may be contacted at (847) 733-3437.
Questions concerning current guidance about Iranian refugees should be directed to the Office of Persian-
American Affairs at (847) 733-3526 or persian@usbnc.org.
For guidance on issues that have arisen in a local community following the resettlement of refugees in that
community, contact the Office of Community Administration at (847) 733-3485 or community@usbnc.org.
See also:
Details of Enrollment Process — Confirmation of Belief — Ch. 5
Bahá'í Credentials — Ch. 5
International Membership Transfers — Ch. 5
Considerations for Diverse Populations — Ch. 6
Ch. 10, Application of Bahá'í Law
REPORTING VIOLATIONS OF CIVIL OR CRIMINAL LAW
Reporting violations by Bahá'ís of civil or criminal law (particularly those that involve harm to others) to law
enforcement or other public authorities or to Bahá'í institutions should not be viewed as damaging to the
reputation of the Faith. Concealing misconduct does greater harm by undermining the fundamental principles
of justice on which the Faith is based and depriving the community of the assurance of protection from
misconduct. The reputation of the Faith is best served by demonstrating, both within and without the Bahá'í
community, strict obedience to civil laws and an unswerving adherence to the principles of justice so clearly
enshrined in the Revelation of Bahá'u'lláh
Believers who violate criminal or civil laws may be subject to Bahá'í administrative sanctions in addition to any
civil or criminal penalties.
See also:
Legal Aspects of Functioning — Ch. 4
Criminal Offenses — Ch. 10
And Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies in cases of abuse
OPPOSITION TO THE FAITH
OPPOSITION IS INEVITABLE STAGE IN UNFOLDMENT OF THE FAITH
We cannot believe that as the Movement grows in strength, in authority and in influence, the perplexities and
the sufferings it has had to contend with in the past will correspondingly decrease and vanish. Nay, as it grows
from strength to strength, the fanatical defendants of the strongholds of orthodoxy, whatever be their
denomination, realizing the penetrating influence of this growing Faith, will arise and strain every nerve to
extinguish its light and discredit its name.
Dearly beloved friends, upon us devolves the supreme obligation to stand by His side, to fight His battles and
to win His victory. May we prove ourselves worthy of this trust.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 123
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 9 – Protection of the Faith
I am however assured and sustained by the conviction, never dimmed in my mind, that whatsoever comes to
pass in the Cause of God, however disquieting in its immediate effects, is fraught with infinite Wisdom and
tends ultimately to promote its interests in the world. Indeed, our experiences of the distant past, as well as of
recent events, are too numerous and varied to permit of any misgiving or doubt as to the truth of this basic
principle — a principle which throughout the vicissitudes of our sacred mission in this world we must never
disregard or forget.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 27
But after I leave, some people may arise in opposition, heaping persecutions upon you in their bitterness, and
in the newspapers there may be articles published against the Cause. Rest ye in the assurance of firmness. Be
well poised and serene, remembering that this is only as the harmless twittering of sparrows and that it will
soon pass away ... .
Therefore, my purpose is to warn and strengthen you against accusations, criticisms, revilings and derision in
newspaper articles or other publications. Be not disturbed by them. They are the very confirmation of the
Cause, the very source of upbuilding to the Movement. May God confirm the day when a score of ministers
of the churches may arise and with bared heads cry at the top of their voices that the Bahá’ís are misguided. I
would like to see that day, for that is the time when the Cause of God will spread. Bahá’u’lláh has pronounced
such as these the couriers of the Cause. They will proclaim from pulpits that the Bahá’ís are fools, that they
are a wicked and unrighteous people, but be ye steadfast and unwavering in the Cause of God. They will
spread the message of Bahá’u’lláh.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, pp. 428-430
OPPOSITION AND THE PLAN OF GOD
The people of the world have grievously erred, for they fondly imagine that they can exterminate the Cause
of God, that they would be able to extinguish His effulgent light, and to put out His heavenly lamps. Vain
indeed are their imaginings. I swear by the righteousness of God that the more they endeavor to quench His
Light, the brighter will it shine, and the more they strive to smother its flame, the fiercer will it burn. God’s
invincible Will far transcendeth their devices, and His Purpose is supreme above all human desires, inasmuch
as all that is in the heavens and all that is on the earth have been called into being through a single holy breeze
— the Word of His command — wafted from His presence, and all shall be brought to naught through but one
letter of His. From time immemorial He hath been established upon the seat of His sovereignty and through
eternity will He continue to occupy the inaccessible heights of His glory. Every created thing is impotent
before the evidences of His invincible might, and all beings fade into utter nothingness when confronted with
the revelation of His awesome majesty.
Bahá’u’lláh, in The Bahá’í World, 1979-1983, Vol. XVIII, p. 13
SOURCES OF OPPOSITION
For let every earnest upholder of the Cause of Bahá’u’lláh realize that the storms which this struggling Faith
of God must needs encounter, as the process of the disintegration of society advances, shall be fiercer than
any which it has already experienced. Let him be aware that so soon as the full measure of the stupendous
claim of the Faith of Bahá’u’lláh comes to be recognized by those time-honored and powerful strongholds of
orthodoxy, whose deliberate aim is to maintain their stranglehold over the thoughts and consciences of men,
this infant Faith will have to contend with enemies more powerful and more insidious than the cruelest
torture-mongers and the most fanatical clerics who have afflicted it in the past. What foes may not in the
course of the convulsions that shall seize a dying civilization be brought into existence, who will reinforce the
indignities which have already been heaped upon it!
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 17
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 9 – Protection of the Faith
From the record of its tumultuous history ... there emerges ... the supreme truth that with every fresh outbreak
of hostility to the Faith, whether from within or from without, a corresponding measure of outpouring grace,
sustaining its defenders and confounding its adversaries, has been providentially released, communicating a
fresh impulse to the onward march of the Faith, while this impetus, in its turn, would, through its
manifestations, provoke fresh hostility in quarters heretofore unaware of its challenging implications — this
increased hostility being accompanied by a still more arresting revelation of Divine Power and a more
abundant effusion of celestial grace, which, by enabling the upholders of that Faith to register still more
brilliant victories, would thereby generate issues of still more vital import and raise up still more formidable
enemies against a Cause that cannot but, in the end, resolve those issues and crush the resistance of those
enemies, through a still more glorious unfoldment of its inherent power.
Shoghi Effendi, This Decisive Hour, Messages from Shoghi Effendi to the North American Bahá'ís: 1932-1946, par. 85.10
FORMS OPPOSITION WILL TAKE
We have only to refer to the warnings uttered by Άbdu'l-Bahá in order to realize the extent and character of
the forces that are destined to contest with God’s holy Faith ...
Stupendous as is the struggle which His words foreshadow, they also testify to the complete victory which the
upholders of the Greatest Name are destined eventually to achieve. Peoples, nations, adherents of divers
faiths, will jointly and successively arise to shatter its unity, to sap its force, and to degrade its holy name.
They will assail not only the spirit which it inculcates, but the administration which is the channel, the
instrument, the embodiment of that spirit. For as the authority with which Bahá’u’lláh has invested the future
Bahá’í Commonwealth becomes more and more apparent, the fiercer shall be the challenge which from every
quarter will be thrown at the verities it enshrines.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, pp. 17–18
Let not, however, the invincible army of Bahá’u’lláh, who in the West, and at one of its potential storm-
centers is to fight, in His name and for His sake, one of its fiercest and most glorious battles, be afraid of any
criticism that might be directed against it. Let it not be deterred by any condemnation with which the tongue
of the slanderer may seek to debase its motives. Let it not recoil before the threatening advance of the forces
of fanaticism, of orthodoxy, of corruption, and of prejudice that may be leagued against it. The voice of
criticism is a voice that indirectly reinforces the proclamation of this Cause. Unpopularity but serves to throw
into greater relief the contrast between it and its adversaries; while ostracism is itself the magnetic power that
must eventually win over to its camp the most vociferous and inveterate amongst its foes.
Shoghi Effendi, The Advent of Divine Justice, p. 42
[H]ow often we seem to forget the clear and repeated warnings of our beloved Master, who, in particular
during the concluding years of His mission on earth, laid stress on the “severe mental tests” that would
inevitably sweep over His loved ones of the West — tests that would purge, purify and prepare them for their
noble mission in life.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 50
RESPONSE OF THE BELIEVERS TO OPPOSITION
In this Day whosoever is guided ... to gain ... the station of recognizing the Source of divine commandments
and the Dayspring of His Revelation, hath everlastingly attained unto all good. Having reached this lofty
station a twofold obligation resteth upon every soul. One is to be steadfast in the Cause with such
steadfastness that were all the peoples of the world to attempt to prevent him from turning to the Source of
Revelation, they would be powerless to do so. The other is observance of the divine ordinances which have
streamed forth from the wellspring of His heavenly-propelled Pen.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 268
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 9 – Protection of the Faith
For whosoever standeth firm and steadfast in this holy, this glorious, and exalted Revelation, such power
shall be given him as to enable him to face and withstand all that is in heaven and on earth. Of this God is
Himself a witness.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, no. CLIV
Soon will the Western regions become as radiant as the horizons of the East, and the Sun of Truth shine forth
with a refulgence that will cause the darkness of error to fade away and vanish. Great is the multitude who
will rise up to oppose you, who will oppress you, heap blame upon you, rejoice at your misfortunes, account
you people to be shunned, and visit injury upon you; yet shall your heavenly Father confer upon you such
spiritual illumination that ye shall become even as the rays of the sun which, as they chase away the sombre
clouds, break forth to flood the surface of the earth with light. It is incumbent upon you, whensoever these
tests may overtake you, to stand firm, and to be patient and enduring. Instead of repaying like with like, ye
should requite opposition with the utmost benevolence and loving-kindness, and on no account attach
importance to cruelties and injuries, but rather regard them as the wanton acts of children. For ultimately the
radiance of the Kingdom will overwhelm the darkness of the world of being, and the holy, exalted character
of your aims will become unmistakably apparent. Nothing shall remain concealed: the olive oil, though stored
within the deepest vault, shall one day burn in brightness from the lamp atop the beacon. The small shall be
made great, and the powerless shall be given strength; they that are of tender age shall become the children of
the Kingdom, and those that have gone astray shall be guided to their heavenly home.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, tablet translated from the Persian, in Lights of Guidance, no. 306
The friends should, therefore, not assume an attitude of mere resignation in the face of persecutions. They
should rather welcome them, and utilize them as means for their own spiritual uplift and also for the
promotion of the Cause. As the Faith grows stronger and attracts the serious attention and consideration of the
world outside, the friends must expect a similar, if not a greater, increase in the forces of opposition which
from every direction, both secular and religious, will be massed to undermine the basis of its existence. The
final outcome of such a struggle, which will be surely gigantic, is clear to us believers. A Faith born of God
and guided by His Divine and all-pervasive spirit cannot but finally triumph and firmly establish itself, no
matter how persistent and insidious the forces with which it has to contend. The friends should be confident,
and act with the utmost wisdom and moderation, and should particularly abstain from any provocative act.
The future is surely theirs.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated June 24, 1936, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1380
RESPONSE OF THE ASSEMBLY TO OPPOSITION
It is incumbent upon them [the Assemblies] to be vigilant and cautious, discreet and watchful, and protect at
all times the Temple of the Cause from the dart of the mischief-maker and the onslaught of the enemy.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 38
The matter of refuted attacks and criticisms directed against the Cause through the press is ... one which
devolves on the N. S. A. to consider. This body, whether directly or through the agency of its committees,
should decide as to the advisability of answering such attacks, and also should carefully examine and pass
upon any statements which the friends wish to send to the press to this effect. Only through such supervision
and control of all Bahá’í press activities can the friends hope to avoid confusion and misunderstanding ...
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated September 28, 1938, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1379
TRIUMPH OF THE CAUSE OF GOD
Whatsoever occurreth in the world of being is light for His loved ones and fire for the people of sedition and
strife. Even if all the losses of the world were to be sustained by one of the friends of God, he would still
profit thereby, whereas true loss would be born by such as are wayward, ignorant and contemptuous. ... The
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 9 – Protection of the Faith
friends of God shall win and profit under all conditions, and shall attain true wealth. In fire they remain cold,
and from water they emerge dry. Their affairs are at variance with the affairs of men. Gain is their lot,
whatever the deal. To this testifieth every wise one with a discerning eye, and every fair-minded one with a
hearing ear.
Bahá’u’lláh, in a previously untranslated Writing, in Messages from The Universal House of Justice 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of
the Formative Age, par. 246.7a
And now, if you act in accordance with the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh, you may rest assured that you will be
aided and confirmed. You will be rendered victorious in all that you undertake, and all the inhabitants of the
earth will be unable to withstand you. You are conquerors, because the power of the Holy Spirit assisteth you.
Above and beyond all physical and phenomenal forces, the Holy Spirit itself shall aid you.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, in Star of the West, Vol. 8. no. 8, August 1, 1917, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 309
That the Cause of God should, in the days to come, witness many a challenging hour and pass through
critical stages in preparation for the glories of its promised ascendancy in the new world has been, time and
again, undeniably affirmed by our departed Master, and is abundantly proved to us all by its heroic past and
turbulent history.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, pp. 60–61
Whatever may befall this infant Faith of God in future decades or in succeeding centuries, whatever the
sorrows, dangers and tribulations which the next stage in its world-wide development may engender, from
whatever quarter the assaults to be launched by its present or future adversaries may be unleashed against it,
however great the reverses and setbacks it may suffer, we, who have been privileged to apprehend, to the
degree our finite minds can fathom, the significance of these marvelous phenomena associated with its rise
and establishment, can harbor no doubt that what it has already achieved in the first hundred years of its life
provides sufficient guarantee that it will continue to forge ahead, capturing loftier heights, tearing down every
obstacle, opening up new horizons and winning still mightier victories until its glorious mission, stretching
into the dim ranges of time that lie ahead, is totally fulfilled.
Shoghi Effendi, God Passes By, p. 412
PRESERVATION OF SACRED RELICS
Now that the Cause is rapidly passing through so many different phases of its evolution is the time for the
friends to exert their utmost in order to preserve as much as they can of the sacred relics and various other
precious objects that are associated with the lives of the Founders of the Faith, and particularly the Tablets
They have revealed.
Every believer should realize that he has a definite responsibility to shoulder in this matter, and to help, to
whatever extent he can, in rendering successful the valuable work which National and Local Bahá'í Archives
Committees are so devotedly accomplishing for the Faith ...
Letter from Shoghi Effendi, dated September 25, 1936, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 331
REVERENCE IN HANDLING SACRED OBJECTS
Objects associated with the founders of the Faith should be treated with the utmost care and respect, whether
they are held privately or by an institution of the Faith.
Sometimes, an article in private ownership may change hands for some purpose. If a sale of the item is
involved, the National Spiritual Assembly feels that the idea of commercial bidding on anything having to do
with the Central Figures or Guardian of the Faith, on the internet or in other venues, is not in keeping with the
standard of dignity and reverence due to Them.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 9 – Protection of the Faith
If the Assembly is uncertain what to do concerning an item it believes to be associated with one of the Central
Figures or the Guardian of the Faith, it should contact the Archives Department at the Bahá'í National Center
at archives@usbnc.org.
REVIEWING BAHÁ’Í LITERATURE AND MATERIALS
Bahá’í review is a requirement that was established by Άbdu'l-Bahá and continued by the Guardian and the
Universal House of Justice to the present time. It is a “temporary measure” necessary in this early stage of
development of the Bahá’í Faith. The purpose of review is to assist authors and artists in ensuring that what
they publish and produce represents the Bahá’í Faith accurately and with dignity. Generally, materials that are
disseminated only electronically or via the Internet are not subject to review. However, if electronic
publications rise to the level of formality of an e-book or an article in an online journal, review is required.
The National Spiritual Assembly’s Office of Review is responsible for reviewing:
•
literature for broad or national distribution
•
all audio-visual materials and music (CDs, DVDs)
Local Spiritual Assemblies are responsible for reviewing:
•
literature that is for local use only
•
all “special materials” created by individuals in the Assembly's jurisdiction (such as artwork and
graphic creations, greeting cards, T-shirts, crafts, jewelry, calendars, etc.), be they for local or national
distribution
Further guidance on Bahá’í review is available from the Office of Review. Local Assemblies and individuals
are welcome to contact the Office of Review by phone at the Bahá’í National Center or by email,
review@usbnc.org, if they have any questions.
PURPOSE AND CRITERIA
At this early stage of the Cause all works by Bahá’ís which deal with the Faith, whether in the form of books,
pamphlets, translations, poems, songs, radio and television scripts, films, recordings, etc., must be approved
before submission for publication, whether to a Bahá’í or non-Bahá’í publisher. In the case of material for
purely local consumption the competent authority is the Local Spiritual Assembly, otherwise the National
Spiritual Assembly (through its Reviewing Committee) is the approving authority.
Memorandum from the Universal House of Justice, dated Ridván 1971, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in “Memorandum on
Bahá’í Publishing”, in Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 94.3a
The function of reviewing is, essentially, to check the author’s exposition of the Bahá’í Faith and its
teachings, which may include verification of any quotations from the Bahá’í writings. This function should
not be confused with evaluation of the literary merit of a work or of its value as a publication, which are
normally the prerogative of the publisher ...
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 11, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 352
It is recommended that Reviewing Committees be small, composed of two or three believers with adequate
education and knowledge of the Cause. It is essential that works submitted be dealt with promptly. The
standards to be upheld by reviewers are the following: (a) conformity with the Teachings, (b) accuracy, (c)
dignity in presentation. The Spiritual Assembly, on the basis of its Reviewing Committee’s report, gives or
withholds approval of the work.
Memorandum from the Universal House of Justice, dated Ridván 1971, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, “Memorandum on Bahá’í
Publishing”, in Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 94.3f
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 9 – Protection of the Faith
Spiritual Assemblies [have the] responsibility to protect the dignity of the Faith and uphold the proper
standard of reverence in the use of its Sacred Scriptures. Thus, if an Assembly sees that one of the friends is
making use of any of the Holy Texts in an unbefitting manner, it should remonstrate with him and, if
necessary, require him to stop doing so.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated September 4, 1981, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 363
Bahá’í authors may submit their works for review to any National Spiritual Assembly, and may send their
works, once approved, to any publisher they like, Bahá’í or non-Bahá’í, at home or abroad. It should be
remembered, however, that the approval should be given by the National Spiritual Assembly of the country
where the work is to be first published. And in the case of a non-Bahá’í publisher the author should insist on
use of the system of transliteration at present used by the Faith for languages employing the Roman alphabet.
It is hoped that Bahá’í authors will provide a constant stream of new works. Introductory books,
commentaries, dissertations on various aspects of the Revelation, text books, histories, reviews, audio-visual
materials are all needed to stimulate study of the Faith and to promote the vital teaching work.
Memorandum from the Universal House of Justice, dated Ridván 1971, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, “Memorandum on Bahá’í
Publishing”, in Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 94.3f
QUOTING FROM BAHÁ’Í WRITINGS
Spiritual Assemblies and individuals are free to quote in their publications from any of the Writings of the
three Central Figures of the Faith or from the writings of the beloved Guardian, whether in the original
language or in translation, without obtaining clearance from the copyright holder, unless the copyright holder
in the case of a translation is an individual or is a non-Bahá’í institution ... .
The ruling is made to ensure that the Sacred Scriptures of our Faith and the writings of the beloved Guardian
may be freely used by the believers; it does not change the existing requirements for review before
publication, neither does it relieve Spiritual Assemblies of their responsibility to protect the dignity of the
Faith and uphold the proper standard of reverence in the use of its Sacred Scriptures. Thus, if an Assembly
sees that one of the friends is making use of any of the Holy Texts in an unbefitting manner, it should
remonstrate with him and if necessary, require him to stop doing so.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated September 4, 1981, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 363
When quoting from the Bahá’í writings, great care should be taken to make sure that the quoted passages are
accurate and presented in a dignified way. Detailed checking for accuracy of quotes is the responsibility of the
author and publisher and not a function of the Office of Review.
If possible, the sources of all quotations should be cited using the original sources rather than secondary
sources and the most recent printing of the original source.
There are some sources that have out-of-date translations or unauthenticated sections and which should not
be used without checking the particular passages. These include Star of the West, Bahá’í World Faith, Tablets
of Άbdu'l-Bahá Abbas, Bahá’í Scriptures, and Άbdu'l-Bahá on Divine Philosophy. The Office of Review may
be contacted if there are questions about whether a passage is authentic.
Regarding what is acceptable for use on t-shirts and other items that will be put to common use (as opposed
to items that are merely decorative), in general, Bahá'ís should limit their designs to concepts and ideas, and
not use direct quotes from, or use the names of, the Central Figures, the Guardian, or the Universal House of
Justice. It would be acceptable to paraphrase quotes to convey themes from the Bahá'í Writings, and then
attribute them to “Bahá'í Writings” or “Bahá'í Faith.”
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 9 – Protection of the Faith
APPROVAL NOTICE
It is the policy of the National Spiritual Assembly that no notice of approval, nor an indication that an item has
been reviewed, may appear in literature or on other items, or in its promotional or advertising materials. Such
notices may imply National Assembly endorsement of a product, which is not the purpose or meaning of
Bahá’í review. Comments made by the Office of Review are also not to be used lest they be misconstrued as
endorsement.
PERSIAN LANGUAGE MATERIALS
In 1982 the Universal House of Justice appointed a panel of reviewers “... in order to facilitate and organize
the publishing of Bahá’í literature in the Persian Language.” In a letter dated July 26, 1982 to a number of
National Spiritual Assemblies contemplating such publications, they were directed that “Publications will be
permissible only when [at least two] members of the panel have agreed what changes, if any, should be
made, and have informed you that they agree to its publication.”
The members of the panel reside in various countries. Therefore, the coordination of the work has been
assigned to the Office of Persian-American Affairs in the United States. All manuscripts are to be forwarded to
that office at the Bahá’í National Center.
MUSIC
The standards of dignity and reverence set by the beloved Guardian should always be upheld, particularly in
musical and dramatic items.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 2, 1967, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 45.5
It is entirely proper to set prayers to music, and the friends are free to sing prayers in unison. Indeed,
assuming that the music is appropriate and that the believers do not make a ritual out of it, it is highly
praiseworthy for choirs to sing appropriate verses revealed by Bahá’u’lláh and the Master ...
We would assume also that the friends will always keep in mind that whether read, chanted, or sung, prayers
should be uttered with a proper sense of reverence.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated February 6, 1973, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1365
We have not come across any instruction which would prohibit the setting of the obligatory prayers to music.
However, because of their special nature, we do not consider it appropriate to do so.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 6, 1996, to a National Spiritual Assembly
We have found nothing in the text forbidding the use of the Greatest Name, the names of the Manifestations
of God or the names of the Central Figures of our Faith in the lyrics of music. However, we feel that when
they are used they should be used with reverence and respect, both in the manner in which they are
incorporated in the lyrics and in the manner of presentation.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 14, 1968, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 902
REVERENCE AND DIGNITY
Portrayals of Holy Figures
The Faith can certainly be dramatized, but two things must be remembered: no personal presentation of the
Báb, Bahá’u’lláh or the Master, only their Words can be used, but no figure must represent Them; great
dignity must be the keynote.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated August 19, 1951, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 334
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 9 – Protection of the Faith
With reference to your question whether the Figures of the Báb and Bahá’u’lláh should be made to appear as
characters in dramatic works written by the believers, Shoghi Effendi’s opinion is that such an attempt to
dramatize the Manifestations would be highly disrespectful, and hence should be avoided by the friends, even
in the case of the Master. Besides it would be practically impossible to carry out such a plan faithfully, and in
a dignified and befitting manner.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated January 27, 1935, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 335
However, there can be no objection to symbolic representation of such Holy Figures, provided it does not
become a ritual and that the symbol used is not irreverent.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 3, 1972, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1831
Pictures and Portraits of Manifestations of God
Your understanding that the portrayal of the Báb and Bahá'u'lláh in works of art is forbidden, is correct. The
Guardian made it clear that this prohibition refers to all the Manifestations of God.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 3, 1972, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1831
From letters written on behalf of the beloved Guardian, it is apparent that he did not approve the publication
of any photograph of Bahá'u'lláh, and regarded such publication to be offensive to Bahá'í religious feeling. In
addition, he did not approve that the photograph be exposed, even in Bahá'í homes. It is for this reason that
the viewing of Bahá'u'lláh’s portrait in the International Archives is part of the pilgrimage program, and the
pilgrims attain this bounty in complete silence and with reverent and special attention.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 23, 2003, to an individual believer
Pictures and Portraits of 'Abdu'l-Bahá
[T]hough he sees no objection to people having portraits of the Master in their homes, if it gives them
pleasure, he prefers that for distribution and for purchase, they should confine themselves to His photographs,
as these are, of course, a much more perfect likeness of Him.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 11, 1942, to an individual believer, in “Representation of the Manifestations of
God and the Master in Portraits, Photographs, and Dramatic Presentations”
Although the House of Justice does not wish to prohibit the use of photographs and drawings of the Master
they should be used most sparingly and always in a dignified context in keeping with the station of Άbdu'l-
Bahá. It is felt that drawings of the Master executed in a cartoon style and showing rays of light emanating
from His head are not appropriate and should be discouraged.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 27, 1978, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in “Representation of the
Manifestations of God and the Master in Portraits, Photographs, and Dramatic Presentations”
Record and Film of Άbdu'l-Bahá
Regarding the use of the Master’s film the greatest care must be exercised lest we cheapen its value by too
frequent and indiscriminate exhibition either amongst the believers or the non-Bahá’ís. Only on special
occasions, such as important anniversaries, should the film be shown and its solemn sacred character should
be duly emphasized.
Letter from Shoghi Effendi, dated February 28, 1928, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1830
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 9 – Protection of the Faith
It is recognized that there are from time to time occasions which warrant presentation of this rare archival
treasure, and at those times the friends, surrounded in an atmosphere of the utmost reverence and sanctity, will
have the privilege of viewing the Master. It is reserved for the House of Justice to determine such occasions.
Therefore, it would be inappropriate to download the film clips and to circulate the Internet link.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 23, 2008, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The Guardian, when referring to this record [of Άbdu'l-Bahá's voice], requested the friends “to exercise
restraint and caution.” “In my view,” he added, “it should be used only on special occasions and be listened to
with the utmost reverence. The dignity of the Cause, I am sure, would suffer from too wide and indiscriminate
use of one of the most precious relics of our departed Master.”
... We are confident that all the friends will strictly observe the Guardian’s exhortation and will not overstep
the bounds of courtesy and moderation in the use of a precious relic so lovingly left to us by the Center of
God’s Covenant.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated February 23, 1971, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in Messages from the
Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986; The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 93.3
Believers are to desist from visiting the aforementioned website and from any use of the video clips now in
circulation.
USE OF THE GREATEST NAME
The overriding consideration must always be the proper dignity with which the Greatest Name should be
used. Thus it would not be befitting to use it on drinking vessels or ash trays, plates for eating, and the like.
There would, however, be no objection to its use on plaques or ornaments, jewellery or similar items which
are not normally put to common use. The House of Justice instructs us to say that great care should be given
to the accurate representation of the Persian calligraphy, since any deviation from an accepted representation
can be distressing to Iranian believers.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated March 12, 1980, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 896
Although there exists an instruction that the symbol of the Greatest Name should not be used on gravestones,
no instruction has been found prohibiting the use of the symbol of the Greatest Name on any other particular
item, such as jewelry, books or pamphlets. However, the Greatest Name should not be used in an undignified
manner.
Nothing has been found which would prohibit a believer from manufacturing and selling items using the
Greatest Name provided that the manner in which the Greatest Name is used is dignified.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated March 25, 1975, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 901
We are requested by the Universal House of Justice to share with you the following guidelines on the use of
the symbols of the Greatest Name.
The Guardian, in a letter written on his behalf to an individual on 5 August 1949, stated:
“It is better not to encourage the use of this symbol on stationery and in paintings.”
Likewise, the Universal House of Justice, in its letter to a National Assembly stated:
“We wish to call to your attention the impressions of the Greatest Name on the back of the envelope in
which your letter was enclosed. This use of the Greatest Name is not befitting and we ask you to
discontinue it.” (16 May 1971)
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 9 – Protection of the Faith
In another communication regarding this subject, the following was written on behalf of the Universal House
of Justice to a National Assembly:
“ ... we are instructed to say that it would not be appropriate to use the symbol of the Greatest Name on
the official stationery of a Local Spiritual Assembly.” (6 November 1984)
While the House of Justice is reluctant to issue a list of the specific uses of the Greatest Name which should
be avoided, the principal thing is for the friends to realize the great sacredness of this symbol, and to use it in
ways which are dignified and appropriate ...
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 3, 1987, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 897
Revised April 2016

10. APPLICATION OF BAHÁ’Í LAW ................................................................................................................................3
NATURE, PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF BAHÁ’Í LAWS .............................................................................................3
NATURE OF BAHÁ’Í LAW ........................................................................................................................................3
PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF BAHÁ’Í LAWS ...........................................................................................................3
The Bahá'í Standard .............................................................................................................................................3
Spiritual Development and Happiness .................................................................................................................4
Understanding True Identity .................................................................................................................................5
OBEDIENCE TO LAWS ...............................................................................................................................................5
TWIN DUTIES TO RECOGNIZE MANIFESTATION AND OBEY HIS LAWS ARE INSEPARABLE ........................5
IMPORTANCE OF ADHERENCE TO BAHÁ’Í LAWS ...............................................................................................6
Adherence Brings Protection, Freedom, Spiritual Development ..........................................................................7
OBEDIENCE WILL NECESSARILY IMPOSE HARDSHIPS ....................................................................................8
LAWS BETWEEN INDIVIDUAL AND GOD .................................................................................................................9
ROLE OF ASSEMBLY PRIMARILY EDUCATIVE.....................................................................................................9
APPLICABLE LAWS REGARDING OBLIGATORY PRAYERS AND FASTING .................................................... 10
THE BAHÁ’Í FAST ................................................................................................................................................. 10
Exemptions from Fasting ................................................................................................................................... 10
Smoking in Relation to the Fast .......................................................................................................................... 11
PRAYER ................................................................................................................................................................. 11
GREATEST NAME, REPETITION 95 TIMES DAILY ............................................................................................. 11
SACRED WRITINGS, DAILY READING ............................................................................................................... 12
DEBTS ................................................................................................................................................................... 12
HUQÚQU’LLÁH ..................................................................................................................................................... 12
What It Is and Its Purpose ................................................................................................................................. 12
Role of Assembly ............................................................................................................................................... 13
Familiarize Believers with Law of Huqúqu’lláh .............................................................................................. 13
Making Huqúqu’lláh Payments .......................................................................................................................... 13
PILGRIMAGE ......................................................................................................................................................... 13
Visiting Israel ..................................................................................................................................................... 14
WILLS .................................................................................................................................................................... 14
Writing of Will Is Spiritual Obligation .................................................................................................................. 14
Consultation with Lawyer Advised ..................................................................................................................... 15
Assembly Should Not Be Named as Executor of Will ....................................................................................... 15
Separate Copy of Instructions for Disposition of Remains and Burial Are Advised .......................................... 15
Role of Local Assembly in Relation to Wills....................................................................................................... 15
THE ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE ...................................................................................................................... 16
FOSTERING THE SPIRITUAL HEALTH OF THE COMMUNITY .......................................................................... 16
DISTINGUISH WHICH LAWS ASSEMBLY HAS DUTY TO ENFORCE ............................................................... 18
ADMINISTERING LAWS ....................................................................................................................................... 18
Upholding Laws with Love, Sensitivity, and Firmness ....................................................................................... 18
Preserving Confidentiality .................................................................................................................................. 21
Distinction between Attitude of Institutions and of Individuals ........................................................................... 21
Responsibility of the Individual .......................................................................................................................... 21
HANDLING VIOLATIONS OF BAHÁ’Í LAW .......................................................................................................... 23
Tone of Communications ................................................................................................................................... 24
Due Process ...................................................................................................................................................... 25
Each Case Considered on Own Merits ............................................................................................................. 25
Assembly Must Evaluate Situation before Acting .............................................................................................. 26
Misconduct by Iranian Refugees ................................................................................................................... 26
Investigation, Review of Facts, Warning When Necessary ............................................................................... 27
REMOVAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE RIGHTS .......................................................................................................... 27
Ignorance of the Law ......................................................................................................................................... 28
Only National Spiritual Assembly May Remove Rights ..................................................................................... 28
Believer Cannot Withdraw to Avoid Bahá’í Law ................................................................................................ 28
Revised April 2016

Limited Sanctions .............................................................................................................................................. 29
Temporary Restrictions .................................................................................................................................. 29
Sanctions Applied to a Youth ......................................................................................................................... 29
Distinction between Function as Adviser and Role of Enforcer ......................................................................... 29
Recommendations to the National Spiritual Assembly ...................................................................................... 30
ANNOUNCING THE LOSS OF ADMINISTRATIVE RIGHTS ................................................................................ 30
MEANING OF DEPRIVATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE RIGHTS ........................................................................... 30
Attitude of Community toward Those Deprived ................................................................................................. 32
HANDLING APPEALS ........................................................................................................................................... 32
Assembly Obligated to Forward Appeal ............................................................................................................ 33
Second Party Appeals ....................................................................................................................................... 33
May Be Preferable to Drop Appeal .................................................................................................................... 33
RESTORATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE RIGHTS .................................................................................................. 33
Expression of Repentance ................................................................................................................................ 34
BEHAVIORS SUBJECT TO ADMINISTRATIVE SANCTIONS ................................................................................ 35
ABUSE OF HOSPITALITY..................................................................................................................................... 36
USE OF ALCOHOL................................................................................................................................................ 36
Owning or Managing a Business Selling Alcohol .............................................................................................. 36
Serving Alcohol .................................................................................................................................................. 37
BACKBITING AND GOSSIPING ........................................................................................................................... 39
CRIMINAL OFFENSES ......................................................................................................................................... 40
Assembly Must Be Careful to Conform to Civil Law .......................................................................................... 40
Abuse ................................................................................................................................................................. 41
Dishonest or Fraudulent Behavior ..................................................................................................................... 42
Robbery, Theft ................................................................................................................................................... 42
Self-Defense ...................................................................................................................................................... 42
Orders of Protection ...................................................................................................................................... 43
DRUGS .................................................................................................................................................................. 43
FAULT-FINDING .................................................................................................................................................... 44
GAMBLING, LOTTERIES, BETTING .................................................................................................................... 44
IRRESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR .............................................................................................................................. 45
MEMBERSHIP IN CERTAIN ORGANIZATIONS ................................................................................................... 45
Holding Office in Certain Non-Bahá'í Organizations ......................................................................................... 45
Political Parties .................................................................................................................................................. 46
Religious Organizations ..................................................................................................................................... 47
Secret Societies ................................................................................................................................................. 48
SEXUAL IMMORALITY ......................................................................................................................................... 48
Specific Kinds of Immorality .............................................................................................................................. 49
Adultery ......................................................................................................................................................... 49
Homosexual Behavior ................................................................................................................................... 49
Pregnancy or Birth out of Wedlock ................................................................................................................ 51
Flagrantly Immoral Behavior .............................................................................................................................. 51
Cohabitation .................................................................................................................................................. 52
LAWS NOT CURRENTLY BINDING ON WESTERN BELIEVERS .......................................................................... 53
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
10. APPLICATION OF BAHÁ’Í LAW
NATURE, PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF BAHÁ’Í LAWS
NATURE OF BAHÁ’Í LAW
Think not that We have revealed unto you a mere code of laws. Nay, rather, We have unsealed the choice
Wine with the fingers of might and power.
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, par. 5
Whenever My laws appear like the sun in the heaven of Mine utterance, they must be faithfully obeyed by
all, though My decree be such as to cause the heaven of every religion to be cleft asunder. He doth what He
pleaseth. He chooseth; and none may question His choice. Whatsoever He, the Well-Beloved, ordaineth, the
same is, verily, beloved.
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, par. 7
The Laws of God are not imposition of will, or of power, or pleasure, but the resolutions of truth, reason and
justice.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Paris Talks, p. 154
Man often lacks the understanding to fathom the wisdom of some of the ordinances which are not to his
liking. It therefore becomes a matter of demonstration of the depth of his faith when he is faced with a divine
command the wisdom and rationale of which he cannot at that time understand.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 3, 1987, to an individual believer
PURPOSE AND EFFECT OF BAHÁ’Í LAWS
The Bahá'í Standard
They whom God hath endued with insight will readily recognize that the precepts laid down by God
constitute the highest means for the maintenance of order in the world and the security of its peoples.
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, par. 2
Far from allowing themselves to be acculturated to the standards of society, then, Bahá’ís are called upon to
be the vanguard and champions of a new civilization. The important issues you raise, therefore, need to be
considered not only in the context of the current condition of society but also in light of the nature of
Bahá'u'lláh's laws and teachings and the responsibilities shouldered by every one of His followers, as well as
by the community and the institutions of the Faith—this, if the potential to achieve His purpose for humanity
is to be realized.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 19, 2013, to some individuals
Hold ye fast unto His statutes and commandments, and be not of those who, following their idle
fancies and vain imaginings, have clung to the standards fixed by their own selves, and cast behind
their backs the standards laid down by God.
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, par. 17
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
The ordinances of God have been sent down from the heaven of His most august Revelation. All must
diligently observe them. Man’s supreme distinction, his real advancement, his final victory, have always
depended, and will continue to depend upon them. Whoso keepeth the commandments of God shall attain
everlasting felicity.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, no. CXXXIII
The understanding about human beings today is heavily influenced by materialistic assumptions.
Perspectives of social movements, leaders of thought, and the media are shaped by them. Even the findings of
science are interpreted according to such prevalent cultural notions. It should not be surprising to find that
certain aspects of the Teachings of the Faith may not conform to one’s personal understanding. “Weigh not the
Book of God with such standards and sciences as are current amongst you, for the Book itself is the unerring
Balance established amongst men,” Bahá’u’lláh states. “In this most perfect Balance whatsoever the peoples
and kindreds of the earth possess must be weighed, while the measure of its weight should be tested according
to its own standard, did ye but know it.” As you persevere in your efforts to resolve your concerns, you are
encouraged to focus your attention principally on the proofs of the authority of Bahá’u’lláh. This process will
be facilitated through prayer, study of the Writings, participation in Bahá’í community life, and identification
of preconceived ideas which are derived from the standards and theories of current society. As the years go by
and humanity’s understanding of the spiritual nature of the human being grows and develops, its view of
many of the issues that are a cause of much uncertainty and contention today can be expected to change.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 22, 2009, to an individual believer
Spiritual Development and Happiness
Then it is clear that the honour and exaltation of man cannot reside solely in material delights and earthly
benefits. This material felicity is wholly secondary, while the exaltation of man resides primarily in such
virtues and attainments as are the adornments of the human reality. These consist in divine blessings,
heavenly bounties, heartfelt emotions, the love and knowledge of God, the education of the people, the
perceptions of the mind, and the discoveries of science. They consist in justice and equity, truthfulness and
benevolence, inner courage and innate humanity, safeguarding the rights of others and preserving the sanctity
of covenants and agreements. They consist in rectitude of conduct under all circumstances, love of truth under
all conditions, self-abnegation for the good of all people, kindness and compassion for all nations, obedience
to the teachings of God, service to the heavenly Kingdom, guidance for all mankind, and education for all
races and nations. This is the felicity of the human world! This is the exaltation of man in the contingent
realm! This is eternal life and heavenly honour!
These gifts, however, do not manifest themselves in the reality of man save through a celestial and divine
power and through the heavenly teachings, for they require a supernatural power.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, no. 14
Just as there are laws governing our physical lives, requiring that we must supply our bodies with certain
foods, maintain them within a certain range of temperatures, and so forth, if we wish to avoid physical
disabilities, so also there are laws governing our spiritual lives. These laws are revealed to mankind in each
age by the Manifestation of God, and obedience to them is of vital importance if each human being, and
mankind in general, is to develop properly and harmoniously. Moreover, these various aspects are
interdependent. If an individual violates the spiritual laws for his own development he will cause injury not
only to himself but to the society in which he lives. Similarly, the condition of society has a direct effect on
the individuals who must live within it.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated February 6, 1973, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in Messages from the
Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 126.2
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
Understanding True Identity
Its peoples, of whatever race, nation, or religion, are being challenged to subordinate all lesser loyalties and
limiting identities to their oneness as citizens of a single planetary homeland.
The Universal House of Justice, Introduction to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 11
How good it is if the friends be as close as sheaves of light, if they stand together side by side in a firm
unbroken line. For now have the rays of reality from the Sun of the world of existence, united in adoration all
the worshippers of this light; and these rays have, through infinite grace, gathered all peoples together within
this wide-spreading shelter; therefore must all souls become as one soul, and all hearts as one heart. Let all be
set free from the multiple identities that were born of passion and desire, and in the oneness of their love for
God find a new way of life.
'Abdu'l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 76
The Bahá’í Faith seeks to maintain cultural diversity while promoting the unity of all peoples. Indeed, such
diversity will enrich the tapestry of human life in a peaceful world society. The House of Justice supports the
view that in every country it is quite appropriate for the cultural traditions of the people to be observed within
the Bahá’í community as long as they are not contrary to the teachings. . . At the present time, the challenge to
every Bahá’í community is to avoid suppression of those culturally-diverse elements which are not contrary
to the teachings, while establishing and maintaining such a high degree of unity that others are attracted to the
Cause of God.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 25, 1988 to an individual believer
OBEDIENCE TO LAWS
TWIN DUTIES TO RECOGNIZE MANIFESTATION AND OBEY HIS LAWS ARE
INSEPARABLE
The first duty prescribed by God for His servants is the recognition of Him Who is the Dayspring of His
Revelation and the Fountain of His laws, Who representeth the Godhead in both the Kingdom of His Cause
and the world of creation. Whoso achieveth this duty hath attained unto all good; and whoso is deprived
thereof hath gone astray, though he be the author of every righteous deed. It behoveth every one who reacheth
this most sublime station, this summit of transcendent glory, to observe every ordinance of Him Who is the
Desire of the world. These twin duties are inseparable. Neither is acceptable without the other. Thus hath it
been decreed by Him Who is the Source of Divine inspiration.
Bahá'u'lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, par. 1
Not until the dynamic love we cherish for Him is sufficiently reflected in its power and purity in all our
dealings with our fellow-men, however remotely connected and humble in origin, can we hope to exalt in the
eyes of a self-seeking world the genuineness of the all-conquering love of God. Not until we live ourselves
the life of a true Bahá’í can we hope to demonstrate the creative and transforming potency of the Faith we
profess. Nothing but the abundance of our actions, nothing but the purity of our lives and the integrity of our
characters, can in the last resort establish our claim that the Bahá’í spirit is in this day the sole agency that can
translate a long-cherished ideal into an enduring achievement.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, letter of November 24, 1924
To recognize Bahá’u’lláh is to have faith in His authority to make the judgements necessary to guide the
progress of humanity through the course of the dispensation.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 22, 2009, to an individual believer
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
Acknowledging that the matter of ascertaining the qualification of a true believer is a delicate and complex
question, Shoghi Effendi, the appointee of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá as Guardian of the Cause and authorized interpreter
of its teachings, set down for Spiritual Assemblies the principal factors that must be taken into consideration
before deciding whether a person may be regarded as a true believer or not: “Full recognition of the station of
the Forerunner, the Author, and the True Exemplar of the Bahá’í Cause, as set forth in ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s
Testament; unreserved acceptance of, and submission to, whatsoever has been revealed by their Pen; loyal and
steadfast adherence to every clause of our Beloved’s sacred Will; and close association with the spirit as well
as the form of the present day Bahá’í administration throughout the world.…”
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated April 4, 2001, to all National Spiritual Assemblies
See also:
Criteria for Withdrawal — When Individuals Accept Only Portions of the Teachings — Ch. 5
IMPORTANCE OF ADHERENCE TO BAHÁ’Í LAWS
Sharp must be thy sight…and adamant thy soul, and brass-like thy feet, if thou wishest to be unshaken by the
assaults of the selfish desires that whisper in men’s breasts. This is the firm injunction which the Pen of the
Most Great Name hath, by virtue of the Will of the Ancient King, been moved to reveal. Keep it as the apple
of thine eye, and be thou of the thankful…Supremely lofty will be thy station, if thou remainest steadfast in
the Cause of thy Lord. Towards Him are thy busy movements directed, and in Him is thy final resting-place.
Bahá'u'lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, no. CXV
Will is the center or focus of human understanding. We must will to know God, just as we must will in order
to possess the life He has given us. The human will must be subdued and trained into the will of God. It is a
great power to have a strong will, but a greater power to give that will to God. The will is what we do, the
understanding is what we know. Will and understanding must be one in the Cause of God.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Baha'i Scriptures, Part Two, Ch. 8
One thing and only one thing will unfailingly and alone secure the undoubted triumph of this sacred Cause,
namely, the extent to which our own inner life and private character mirror forth in their manifold aspects the
splendor of those eternal principles proclaimed by Bahá’u’lláh.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 66
In contrast to many contemporary conceptions, the Bahá’í teachings maintain that a person must rise above
certain material aspects of human nature to develop and manifest inherent spiritual qualities that characterize
his or her true self. The Sacred Texts contain laws and exhortations that, in many instances, redirect or restrict
behaviors that arise from impulses, tendencies, and desires, whether inborn or acquired. Some of these are
physical, while others are emotional or psychological. Yet, whatever their origin, it is through their regulation
and control that the higher, spiritual nature is able to predominate and flourish. Those who are not Bahá’ís
may have no cause to take into account such considerations. A Bahá’í, however, cannot set aside the
implications of these teachings and must endeavor to respond to the best of his or her ability, though it be little
by little and day by day.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 22, 2013, to an individual believer
It is often difficult for us to do things because they are so very different from what we are used to, not
because the thing itself is particularly difficult. With you, and indeed most Bahá’ís, who are now, as adults,
accepting this glorious Faith, no doubt some of the ordinances, like fasting and daily prayer, are hard to
understand and obey at first. But we must always think that these things are given to all men for a thousand
years to come. For Bahá’í children who see these things practiced in the home, they will be as natural and
necessary a thing as going to church on Sunday was to the more pious generation of Christians. Bahá’u’lláh
would not have given us these things if they would not greatly benefit us, and, like children who are sensible
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
enough to realize their father is wise and does what is good for them, we must accept to obey these ordinances
even though at first we may not see any need for them. As we obey them we will gradually come to see in
ourselves the benefits they confer.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 16, 1949, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1150
Adherence Brings Protection, Freedom, Spiritual Development
True liberty consisteth in man’s submission unto My commandments, little as ye know it. Were men to
observe that which We have sent down unto them from the Heaven of Revelation, they would, of a certainty,
attain unto perfect liberty. ... The liberty that profiteth you is to be found nowhere except in complete
servitude unto God, the Eternal Truth.
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, par. 125
There are three types of freedom. The first is divine freedom, which is one of the inherent attributes of the
Creator for He is unconstrained in His will, and no one can force Him to change His decree in any matter
whatsoever....
The second is the political freedom of Europeans, which leaves the individual free to do whatsoever he
desires as long as his action does not harm his neighbour. This is natural freedom, and its greatest expression
is seen in the animal world. Observe these birds and notice with what freedom they live. However much man
may try, he can never be as free as an animal, because the existence of order acts as an impediment to
freedom.
The third freedom is that which is born of obedience to the laws and ordinances of the Almighty. This is the
freedom of the human world, where man severs his affections from all things. When he does so, he becomes
immune to all hardship and sorrow. Wealth or material power will not deflect him from moderation and
fairness, neither will poverty or need inhibit him from showing forth happiness and tranquility. The more the
conscience of man develops, the more will his heart be free and his soul attain unto happiness. In the religion
of God, there is freedom of thought because God, alone, controls the human conscience, but this freedom
should not go beyond courtesy. In the religion of God there is no freedom of action outside the law of God.
Man may not transgress this law, even though no harm is inflicted on one’s neighbor. …Freedom of thought
should not transgress the bounds of courtesy, and actions, likewise, should be governed by the fear of God and
the desire to seek His good pleasure.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, quoted by the Universal House of Justice, letter dated February 8, 1988 to an individual believer
In considering the effect of obedience to the laws on individual lives, one must remember that the purpose of
this life is to prepare the soul for the next. Here one must learn to control and direct one's animal impulses,
not to be a slave to them. Life in this world is a succession of tests and achievements, of falling short and of
making new spiritual advances. Sometimes the course may seem very hard, but one can witness, again and
again, that the soul who steadfastly obeys the laws of Bahá’u’lláh, however hard it may seem, grows
spiritually, while the one who compromises with the law for the sake of his own apparent happiness is said to
have been following a chimera: he does not attain the happiness he sought; he retards his spiritual advance
and often brings new problems upon himself. ... Thus, by upholding Bahá’í law in the face of all difficulties
we not only strengthen our own characters but influence those around us.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated February 6, 1973, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in Messages from the
Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 126.4, 126.6
Adherence to the Teachings of the Divine Educator refines the character and develops the potentialities with
which each person is endowed; it liberates the individual and society from lower inclinations that give rise to
the ills that afflict humanity.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 9, 2014, to an individual believer
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
Disobedience Affects Inner Lives, Tests Faith of Fellow Believers, Repels
Others
Again and again Bahá’u’lláh stressed the importance of the believers’ living according to the Teachings.
Whenever they fall short this not only affects their own inner lives but can test the faith of their fellow-
believers and repel those who might otherwise be drawn to the Faith.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 24, 1973, to an individual believer
OBEDIENCE WILL NECESSARILY IMPOSE HARDSHIPS
Obedience to the laws of Bahá’u’lláh will necessarily impose hardships in individual cases. No one should
expect, upon becoming a Bahá’í, that his faith will not be tested, and to our finite understanding of such
matters these tests may occasionally seem unbearable. But we are aware of the assurance which Bahá’u’lláh
Himself has given the believers that they will never be called upon to meet a test greater than their capacity to
endure. It therefore becomes a matter of demonstration of the depth of one’s faith when he is faced with a
divine command the wisdom and rationale of which he cannot at that time understand.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 7, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
You have also asked how you should deal with the conflict you face in being a Bahá’í while struggling to
appreciate certain aspects of the teachings, and you wonder whether you should withdraw from the Faith or
simply acknowledge that on this point you have a different view. It can be helpful to consider that, on
occasion, a believer may discover that a personal understanding differs to some degree from the teachings.
How can it be otherwise, when our conceptions are forged in a social milieu that Bahá’u’lláh has come to
radically transform? “An exact and thorough comprehension of so vast a system, so sublime a revelation, so
sacred a trust,” Shoghi Effendi reminds us, “is for obvious reasons beyond the reach and ken of our finite
minds.” A sensible approach is simply to recognize that the human mind is both finite and fallible and that
acquiring spiritual insight and greater understanding is a gradual and ever-unfolding process that requires
time, continued study, reflection on action, and consultation with others. This perspective is quite different,
however, from contending with or attempting to change explicit provisions of the Faith. Humility is required,
rather than an insistence that one’s personal views at any given time are correct. Thus, there is no reason why
you should feel a need to withdraw from the Bahá’í community. Rather you are encouraged to keep an open
mind and acknowledge, like every other Bahá’í, that there are elements of the Revelation that you are striving
to understand more fully. This does not prevent you from showing forth unconditional love and support for
your son.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 22, 2013, to an individual believer
Bahá’u’lláh also recognizes that human beings are fallible. He knows that, in our weakness, we shall
repeatedly stumble when we try to walk in the path He has pointed out to us. If all human beings became
perfect the moment they accepted the call of Bahá’u’lláh this world would be another world. It is in light of
our frailty that Άbdu'l-Bahá appealed to the friends everywhere to love each other and stressed the emphatic
teaching of Bahá’u’lláh that each of us should concentrate upon improving his or her own life and ignore the
faults of others. How many times the Master stressed the need for unity, for without it His Father’s Cause
could not go forward.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 24, 1973, to an individual believer
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
LAWS BETWEEN INDIVIDUAL AND GOD
[A]lthough of very great importance, [some laws] are not sanctionable, because their observance is a matter
of conscience between the individual and God; among these fall the laws of prayer and fasting and the law of
Huqúqu’lláh.
Letter written from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 12, 1984, to an individual Bahá'í, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1963–1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 405.2
Although obedience to these laws is between the individual and God, it is the responsibility of the Local
Spiritual Assembly to educate the believers about the existence of the laws and aid them to increase their
understanding and devotion to them.
ROLE OF ASSEMBLY PRIMARILY EDUCATIVE
While responsibility for adhering to the Bahá’í standard rests primarily on the individual believer, it is
incumbent upon the institutions of the Faith to support the individual, largely through educational endeavours,
and to foster a pattern of community life that is conducive to the spiritual upliftment of its members.  It is
understood, of course, that in the assumption of these and other sacred duties, Bahá’í institutions may find it
necessary at times to take specific action as a means of protecting the community and the integrity of Bahá’í
law.
In discharging their educational responsibilities towards the body of the believers, the institutions of the Faith
need to bear in mind how little is accomplished when their efforts are reduced to repeated admonitions or to
dogmatic instruction in proper conduct.  Rather should their aim be to raise consciousness and to increase
understanding.  Theirs is not the duty to pry into personal lives or to impose Bahá’í law on the individual but
to create an environment in which the friends eagerly arise to fulfil their obligations as followers of
Bahá’u’lláh, to uphold His law, and to align their lives with His teachings.  The efforts of the institutions will
bear fruit to the extent that the friends, especially those of the younger generation, find themselves immersed
in the activities of a vibrant and growing community and feel confirmed in the mission with which
Bahá’u’lláh has entrusted them.
One of the most effective instruments at your disposal in this respect is the training institute.  It strives to
engage the individual in an educational process in which virtuous conduct and self-discipline are developed in
the context of service, fostering a coherent and joyful pattern of life that weaves together study, worship,
teaching, community building and, in general, involvement in other processes that seek to transform society.
At the heart of the educational process is contact with the Word of God, whose power sustains every
individual’s attempts to purify his or her heart and to walk a path of service with “the feet of detachment”.
The Guardian encouraged young believers to learn through “active, whole-hearted and continued
participation” in community activities.  Addressed to one young believer, a letter written on his behalf
explained:  “Bahá’í community life provides you with an indispensable laboratory, where you can translate
into living and constructive action the principles which you imbibe from the Teachings.”  “By becoming a real
part of that living organism”, the letter went on, “you can catch the real spirit which runs throughout the
Bahá’í Teachings.”  Such wholehearted participation in the work of the Faith provides an invaluable context
for the exertion made by young and old alike to align their lives with Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings.  This is not to
say that individuals will not err from time to time, perhaps on occasion in serious ways.  Yet, when the desire
to uphold the Bahá’í standard is nurtured through service to the common weal in an environment of unfailing
love and warm encouragement, the friends will not feel, in the face of such difficulty, that they have no other
recourse but to withdraw from community activity out of a sense of shame or, worse, to cover the challenges
they are experiencing with the veneer of propriety, living a life in which public words do not conform to
private deeds.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated April 23, 2013 to a National Spiritual Assembly,
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
APPLICABLE LAWS REGARDING OBLIGATORY PRAYERS AND FASTING
The friends have long been familiar with the great importance which Bahá’u’lláh attaches to daily obligatory
prayer and to the observance of the fast, but a number of aspects of the law, such as those concerning
ablutions, travelling and the compensation for prayers missed, remained to be made universally applicable.
This step is now taken. Thus all elements of the laws dealing with obligatory prayer and fasting are, without
any exception, now applicable.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 1999, to the Bahá'ís of the World, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1986-2001: The Fourth Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 315.5
THE BAHÁ’Í FAST
As regards fasting, it constitutes, together with the obligatory prayers, the two pillars that sustain the revealed
Law of God. They act as stimulants to the soul, strengthen, revive, and purify it, and thus ensure its steady
development.
The ordinance of fasting is, as in the case with these three prayers, a spiritual and vital obligation enjoined by
Bahá’u’lláh upon every believer who has attained the age of 15. In the Aqdas He thus writes:
We have commanded you to pray and fast from the beginning of maturity; this is ordained by God, your
Lord and the Lord of your forefathers. He hath exempted from this those who are weak from illness or
age, as a bounty from His Presence, and He is the Forgiving, the Generous.
And in another passage He says:
We have enjoined upon you fasting during a brief period, and at its close have designated for you Naw-
Rúz as a feast. ... The traveler, the ailing, those who are with child or giving suck, are not bound by the
Fast; ... Abstain from food and drink from sunrise to sundown, and beware lest desire deprive you of this
grace that is appointed in the Book.
Also in the “Questions and Answers” that form an appendix to the Aqdas, Bahá’u’lláh reveals the following:
Verily, I say that God has appointed a great station for fasting and prayer. But during good health its
benefit is evident, and when one is ill, it is not permissible to fulfill them.
Concerning the age of maturity, He reveals in the appendix of that same Book:
The age of maturity is fifteen for both men and women.
The fasting period, which lasts nineteen days, starting as a rule from the second of March every year and
ending on the twentieth of the same month, involves complete abstention from food and drink from sunrise
till sunset. It is essentially a period of meditation and prayer, of spiritual recuperation, during which the
believer must strive to make the necessary readjustments in his inner life, and to refresh and reinvigorate the
spiritual forces latent in his soul. Its significance and purposes are, therefore, fundamentally spiritual in
character. Fasting is symbolic, and a reminder of abstinence from selfish and carnal desires.
Shoghi Effendi, in Principles of Bahá’í Administration, pp. 8–9
Exemptions from Fasting
The traveller, the ailing, those who are with child or giving suck, are not bound by the Fast; they have been
exempted by God as a token of His grace.
Exemption from fasting is granted to those who are ill or of advanced age (see note 14), women in their
courses (see note 20), travellers (see note 30) and to women who are pregnant and those who are nursing. This
exemption is also extended to people who are engaged in heavy labour, who, at the same time, are advised "to
show respect to the law of God and for the exalted station of the Fast" by eating "with frugality and in
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
private" (Q and A 76). Shoghi Effendi has indicated that the types of work which would exempt people from
the Fast will be defined by the Universal House of Justice.
Universal House of Justice in “Notes” appended to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, no. 31
Smoking in Relation to the Fast
In one of His Tablets, Άbdu'l-Bahá, after stating that fasting consists of abstinence from food and drink,
further indicates that smoking is a form of “drink.” In Arabic the verb “drink” applies equally to smoking.
Universal House of Justice in “Notes” appended to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, no. 32
See also:
Smoking at Bahá'í Meetings — Ch. 14
PRAYER
Prayer and fasting is the cause of awakening and mindfulness and conducive to protection and preservation
from tests.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, in Unrestrained as the Wind: A Life Dedicated to Bahá’u’lláh, p. 9
All forgiveness floweth, in this Day, from God, Him to Whom none can compare, with Whom no partners
can be joined, the Sovereign Protector of all men, and the Concealer of their sins!”
Baha’u’llah, Gleanings from the Writings of Baha’u’llah, no. XV
The obligatory prayers are binding inasmuch as they are conducive to humility and submissiveness, to setting
one’s face toward God and expressing devotion to Him. Through such prayer man holdeth communion with
God, seeketh to draw near unto Him, converseth with the true Beloved of one’s heart, and attaineth spiritual
stations.
Tablet from Άbdu'l-Bahá, translated from Persian, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II, no. 1744
Prayer is the essential spiritual conversation of the soul with its Maker, direct and without intermediation.  It
is the spiritual food that sustains the life of the spirit.  Like the morning’s dew, it brings freshness to the heart
and cleanses it, purifying it from attachments of the insistent self.  It is a fire that burns away the veils and a
light that leads to the ocean of reunion with the Almighty.  On its wings does the soul soar in the heavens of
God and draw closer to the divine reality.  Upon its quality depends the development of the limitless
capacities of the soul and the attraction of the bounties of God, but the prolongation of prayer is not desirable.
The powers latent in prayer are manifested when it is motivated by the love of God, beyond any fear or
favour, and free from ostentation and superstition.  It is to be expressed with a sincere and pure heart
conducive to contemplation and meditation so that the rational faculty can be illumined by its effects.  Such
prayer will transcend the limitation of words and go well beyond mere sounds.  The sweetness of its melodies
must gladden and uplift the heart and reinforce the penetrating power of the Word, transmuting earthly
inclinations into heavenly attributes and inspiring selfless service to humankind.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 18, 2014
For details concerning performance of obligatory prayers, refer to Bahá'í Prayers and to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas,
pages 23, 24, and 180-181.
See also:
A Dynamic Pattern of Bahá'í Community Life — Ch. 6
GREATEST NAME, REPETITION 95 TIMES DAILY
We have also decided that it is timely for Bahá’ís in every land to take to their hearts the words of the Kitáb-
i-Aqdas: “It hath been ordained that every believer in God, the Lord of Judgment, shall, each day, having
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
washed his hands and then his face, seat himself and, turning unto God, repeat ‘Allah-u-Abhá’ ninety-five
times. Such was the decree of the Maker of the Heavens when, with majesty and power, He established
Himself upon the thrones of His Names.” Let all experience the spiritual enrichment brought to their souls by
this simple act of worshipful meditation.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 1999, to the Bahá'ís of the World in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1986-2001: The Fourth Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 315.6
SACRED WRITINGS, DAILY READING
Recite ye the verses of God every morn and eventide. Whoso faileth to recite them hath not been faithful to
the Covenant of God and His Testament, and whoso turneth away from these holy verses in this Day is of
those who throughout eternity have turned away from God. Fear ye God, O My servants, one and all.
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, par. 149
DEBTS
In connection with the demands for payment of which thou hast written in thy letter, it is manifestly clear that
anyone who hath the ability to settle his debts, and yet neglecteth to do so, hath not acted in accordance with
the good pleasure of the one true God. Those who incur debts should strive to settle them with all diligence
and application. God's binding commandments with respect to trustworthiness, uprightness and the honouring
of rights have been recorded in clear and perspicuous language in all the sacred Books, Tablets, Scriptures and
holy Writings. Well is it with him whom the fleeting vanities of the world have not deprived of a lasting
adornment, and whom avarice and negligence have not shut out from the illumination of the sun of
trustworthiness. These matters, however, depend on the existence of ability, for the making of a demand is
contingent upon ability to meet it. By the Lord of the Book, the former is not permissible in the absence of the
latter. To this testifieth the Verse: "Respite thy debtor till he findeth means to pay."1
Bahá'u'lláh, translated from Arabic Tablet, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II, no. 2047
1 Qur’án 2:280
Your Assembly should not deprive him of his voting rights ... because he cannot, or will not, liquidate his
debts. If once the precedent is established that a Bahá’í can be deprived of his voting rights on such grounds
as these, you can see for yourself where it would lead.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated June 20, 1954, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Criminal Offenses — Ch. 10
HUQÚQU’LLÁH
What It Is and Its Purpose
It is clear and evident that the payment of the Right of God is conducive to prosperity, to blessing, and to
honour and Divine protection. Well is it with them that comprehend and recognize this truth and woe betide
them that believe not. And this is on condition that the individual should observe the injunctions prescribed in
the Book with the utmost radiance, gladness and willing acquiescence. It behoveth you to counsel the friends
to do that which is right and praiseworthy. Whoso hearkeneth to this call, it is to his own behoof, and whoso
faileth bringeth loss upon himself. Verily our Lord of Mercy is the All-Sufficing, the All-Praised.
Bahá'u'lláh, from a previously untranslated Tablet, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1031
This verse establishes Huqúqu’lláh, the Right of God, the offering of a fixed portion of the value of the
believer's possessions. This offering was made to Bahá'u'lláh as the Manifestation of God and then, following
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
His Ascension, to Άbdu'l-Bahá as the Centre of the Covenant. In His Will and Testament, Άbdu'l-Bahá
provided that the Huqúqu’lláh was to be offered "through the Guardian of the Cause of God". There now
being no Guardian, it is offered through the Universal House of Justice as the Head of the Faith. This fund is
used for the promotion of the Faith of God and its interests as well as for various philanthropic purposes. The
offering of the Huqúqu’lláh is a spiritual obligation, the fulfilment of which has been left to the conscience of
each Bahá'í. While the community is reminded of the requirements of the law of Huqúq, no believer may be
approached individually to pay it.
Universal House of Justice in “Notes” appended to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, no. 125
Role of Assembly
Familiarize Believers with Law of Huqúqu’lláh
Since the Huqúqu’lláh has, according to the injunction in the Book, been designated as one of the institutions
of the Cause, and inasmuch as the fulfillment of this obligation is binding on the people of Bahá, therefore it
is deemed appropriate that your Spiritual Assembly should fully familiarize the dear friends in Persia with the
significances of this momentous responsibility and promulgate gradually in the community such ordinances
related to Huqúqu’lláh as are laid down in His perspicuous Book.
Obviously in pursuance of the explicit Texts solicitation of the Huqúqu’lláh is not permissible, but it is the
responsibility of those Trustees of the Cause to address appeals of a general character to the dear friends, so
that they may become more informed about this essential obligation. God willing, through the occasional
reminders issued by your Assembly, they may gain the privilege and honour of achieving this benevolent
deed—a deed that draws forth heavenly blessings, serves as a means of purifying the earthly possessions of
the devoted friends, and promotes the international activities of the people of Bahá.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated October 27, 1963, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Huqúqu'lláh, The Right of
God: Extracts from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, Άbdu'l-Bahá, Shoghi Effendi and the Universal House of Justice, par. 96
Further information on the law of Huqúqu’lláh may be obtained through the Huqúqu’lláh Trustees, local area
representatives for Huqúqu’lláh, or the Huqúqu’lláh pages on the national Bahá’í community website at
http://american.bahai.us/huququllah/.
Making Huqúqu’lláh Payments
Payments to Huqúqu’lláh should be made out to "Bahá'í Huqúqu’lláh Trust".  Please include your Bahá’í
identification number; if you are making a joint payment, please include both spouses’ Bahá’í identification
numbers) and your current address where a receipt should be mailed.  Send the payment to Bahá’í
Huqúqu’lláh Trust, P. O. Box 697, Wilmette, Illinois  60091..
PILGRIMAGE
The Lord hath ordained that those of you who are able shall make pilgrimage to the sacred House, and from
this He hath exempted women as a mercy on His part. He, of a truth, is the All-Bountiful, the Most Generous.
Bahá'u'lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, par. 32
In the Bayán, the Báb enjoined the ordinance of pilgrimage once in a lifetime upon those of His followers
who were financially able to undertake the journey. He stated that the obligation was not binding on women in
order to spare them the rigors of travel.
Bahá'u'lláh likewise exempts women from His pilgrimage requirements. The Universal House of Justice has
clarified that this exemption is not a prohibition, and that women are free to perform the pilgrimage.
Universal House of Justice in “Notes” appended to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, no. 55
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
You have asked about visiting holy places and the observance of marked reverence toward these resplendent
spots. Holy places are undoubtedly centers of the outpouring of Divine grace, because on entering the
illumined sites associated with martyrs and holy souls, and by observing reverence, both physical and
spiritual, one’s heart is moved with great tenderness.
Άbdu'l-Bahá quoted in Synopsis and Codification of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Notes and References, p. 61
After the passing of Bahá'u'lláh, Άbdu'l-Bahá designated the Shrine of Bahá'u'lláh at Bahjí as a place of
pilgrimage. In a Tablet, He indicates that the "Most Holy Shrine, the Blessed House in Baghdad and the
venerated House of the Báb in Shiraz" are "consecrated to pilgrimage", and that it is "obligatory" to visit these
places "if one can afford it and is able to do so, and if no obstacle stands in one's way". No rites have been
prescribed for pilgrimage to the Most Holy Shrine.
Universal House of Justice in “Notes” appended to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, no. 54
[P]ilgrims will have the opportunity each year to pray in the Shrines of the Central Figures of their Faith, to
visit the places hallowed by the footsteps, sufferings and triumphs of Bahá’u’lláh and Άbdu'l-Bahá, and to
meditate in the tranquillity of these sacred precincts, beautified with so much loving care by our beloved
Guardian.
Message from the Universal House of Justice, dated Riḍván 1969, to the Bahá'ís of the World, in Messages of the Universal House of
Justice 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 68.9
Pilgrimage to the Holy Places at the Bahá’í World Center is a privilege and a precious bounty.  Although the
law of pilgrimage is not currently binding on Western believers, all Bahá’ís in good standing are free to apply.
The website bahai.bwc.org/pilgrimage/ contains a wealth of information on pilgrimage, as well as an
application. Those who prefer not to use the Internet may submit their pilgrimage request in writing to the
Department of Pilgrimage at the Bahá'í World Center. When writing, please provide names, Bahá'í
identification numbers and current mailing and email addresses of each believer applying.
Bahá'í World Centre
Department of Pilgrimage
P.O. Box 155
Haifa 31 00101, ISRAEL
Fax: 011-972-4-8358507
Email: pilsched@bwc.org
The Department of Pilgrimage has asked the friends not to contact it by telephone.
Be advised that there is a waiting list, so the friends may wish to apply well in advance for the privilege of
attaining pilgrimage.
Visiting Israel
Prior to visiting Israel for any reason, believers should obtain consent from the Universal House of Justice,
especially if they are considering a visit to the World Center. Believers may contact the World Center to obtain
permission by phone, 972-4-8358280 or email, visit@bwc.org. Their request should include their full names,
Bahá’í ID numbers, addresses, passport information, and the dates of their proposed visits. It is suggested
that their requests be sent approximately one month before their intended visits.
WILLS
Writing of Will Is Spiritual Obligation
Unto everyone hath been enjoined the writing of a will.
Bahá'u'lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, par. 109
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
The friends should be strongly advised to make wills specifying that they want their funerals to be conducted
under the auspices of the Bahá’í Faith, or at least in conformity with its requirements and they should make
this known both to the Local Spiritual Assembly and to their own relatives, while they are still alive. In this
way it is quite possible that agreements may be reached with non-Bahá’í relatives before death takes place.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 18, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 633
A pamphlet, “The Writing of a Will”, giving additional instructions about will and testament preparation is
available from the Office of the Treasurer at the Bahá’í National Center. It may also be downloaded from the
Fund Resources section of the national Bahá’í community website.
Consultation with Lawyer Advised
The civil law in relation to the making of wills is sometimes quite complex. It is, therefore, highly advisable
for an individual to consult a lawyer when he makes his will to ensure that his intention is not nullified by
some possible breach of the requirements of the law in the drawing up or execution of the will.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated September 4, 1986, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 636
While some states permit people to prepare their own wills and may make statutory forms for simple wills
available online, through office supply stores, or at local courthouses, it is often advisable to seek the
assistance of an attorney. Writing and executing the will to conform to the state law helps ensure that the
person’s wishes will be carried out after death.
Assembly Should Not Be Named as Executor of Will
You are free to inform those who ask that neither the National or Local Spiritual Assemblies should be
named as executor of a will.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 14, 1971, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 632
Separate Copy of Instructions for Disposition of Remains and Burial Are
Advised
It is preferable to keep a copy of the instructions for burial, as well as for any organ or body donation,
separate from the will in an easily accessible location in order to help insure that they are read in time. Family
members or friends should be made aware of the instructions and know where a copy is kept. A copy may
also be given to the Local Assembly for its information. Believers should be aware that such instructions may
not be legally binding, although including the original copy with the will and testament increases the likelihood
of their wishes being carried out, if it is found in time.
See also:
Requirements Binding on All Believers — Ch. 13
Donation of Body to Medical Science — Ch. 13
Role of Local Assembly in Relation to Wills
While it is appropriate and advisable for the friends to deposit a copy of their Wills with the Spiritual
Assembly, they should not be required to do so, but should be left free in this matter.
The friends are free to formulate the provisions of their Wills as they please, and the Spiritual Assembly has
the obligation to enforce these provisions unless, of course, they are in conflict with the interests of the Faith.
It is not necessary for the Spiritual Assembly to publish the text to a “model” Will. Each believer should
compose his Will according to his own wishes ...
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
The execution of the provisions of the will causes the spirit of the deceased to rejoice in the Abhá Kingdom.
Shoghi Effendi, quoted in a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 24, 1982, to a National Spiritual
Assembly
On the other hand, if the testator, being a Bahá’í, makes a provision in his will that is contrary to Bahá’í Law
(e.g., to bury his remains in a place more than one hour’s journey from the place of death), that provision is
null and void in Bahá’í law and the Assembly must not fulfill it even if failure to do so would cause the
bequest to be revoked in civil law. If failure to fulfill such a condition does not cancel the bequest in civil law,
the Assembly is not required to refuse the bequest as it would have to do in the case of failure to fulfill a valid
condition.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 10, 1978, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 635
Local Assemblies should educate their communities regarding the importance of making a will. They may
consider calling upon experts (e.g., attorneys, funeral directors, accountants) to assist them. The Office of the
Treasurer has materials to assist with this effort.
While an Assembly should not be appointed executor of a will, it may be asked to carry out some condition of
the will and may be responsible for the official Bahá'í funeral service and the burial. In carrying out any
functions in relation to the will it must take care to observe requirements of Bahá'í law.
See also:
Burial without Cremation — Ch. 13
THE ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE
FOSTERING THE SPIRITUAL HEALTH OF THE COMMUNITY
O Son of Spirit! The best beloved of all things in My sight is Justice; turn not away therefrom if thou desirest
Me, and neglect it not that I may confide in thee. By its aid thou shalt see with thine own eyes and not through
the eyes of others, and shalt know of thine own knowledge and not through the knowledge of thy neighbor.
Ponder this in thy heart; how it behooveth thee to be. Verily justice is My gift to thee and the sign of My
loving-kindness. Set it then before thine eyes.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Hidden Words, Arabic #2.
The light of men is Justice. Quench it not with the contrary winds of oppression and tyranny. The purpose of
justice is the appearance of unity among men. The ocean of divine wisdom surgeth within this exalted word,
while the books of the world cannot contain its inner significance.
Bahá’u’lláh, Kalimát-i-Firdawsíyyih (Words of Paradise)
[B]ahá’ís are striving to establish a pattern of activity and the corresponding administrative structures that
embody the principle of the oneness of humankind and the convictions underpinning it, only a few of which
are mentioned here as a means of illustration: … that justice, as a faculty of the soul, enables the individual to
distinguish truth from falsehood and guides the investigation of reality, so essential if superstitious beliefs and
outworn traditions that impede unity are to be eliminated; that, when appropriately brought to bear on social
issues, justice is the single most important instrument for the establishment of unity….
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 2, 2013, to the Bahá’ís in Iran
The aim of any Spiritual Assembly should be to develop a warm and loving relationship with the believers in
its community, so that it can most effectively nurture and encourage them in the acquisition of a deeper
understanding of the teachings, and can assist them to follow the Bahá’í principles in their personal conduct.
The Assembly should aspire to being regarded by the members of the community as a loving parent, wise in
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
its understanding of the varying degrees of maturity of those entrusted to its care, compassionate in dealing
with the problems which arise as a result of any shortcomings, ever prepared to guide them to the correct path,
and very patient as they strive to effect the necessary changes in their behavior. … The Bahá’í application of
justice, firmly rooted in spiritual principle and animated by the desire to foster the spiritual development of
the members of the community, will increasingly be seen as a distinctive and highly attractive feature of the
Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 9, 1991, to a National Spiritual Assembly
As humanity passes through the age of transition in its evolution to a world civilization which will be
illuminated by spiritual values and will be distinguished by its justice and its unity, the role of the Bahá’í
community is clear: it must accomplish a spiritual transformation of its members, and must offer to the world
a model of the society destined to come into being through the power of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.
Membership in the Bahá’í community is open to all who accept Bahá’u’lláh as the Manifestation of God, and
who thereupon embark on the process of changing their conduct and refining their character. It is inevitable
that this community will, at times, be subject to delinquent behavior of members whose actions do not
conform to the standards of the Teachings. At such times, the institutions of the Faith will not hesitate to apply
Bahá’í law with justice and fairness in full confidence that this Divine Law is the means for the true happiness
of all concerned.
However, it should be recognized that the ultimate solution to the problems of humanity lies not in penalties
and punishments, but rather in spiritual education and illumination. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has written:
It is incumbent upon human society to expend all its forces on the education of the people, and to
copiously water men’s hearts with the sacred streams that pour down from the Realm of the All-Merciful,
and to teach them the manners of Heaven and spiritual ways of life, until every member of the community
of man will be schooled, refined, and exalted to such a degree of perfection that the very committing of a
shameful act will seem in itself the direst infliction and most agonizing of punishments, and man will fly
in terror and seek refuge in his God from the very idea of crime, as something far harsher and more
grievous than the punishment assigned to it.
It is toward this goal that the community of the Greatest Name is striving, aided and reinforced by the
limitless power of the Holy Spirit.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 22, 2009, to an individual believer
He urges you to do all you can to promote unity and love amongst the members of the Community there, as
this seems to be their greatest need. So often young communities, in their desire to administer the Cause, lose
sight of the fact that these spiritual relationships are far more important and fundamental than the rules and
regulations which must govern the conduct of community affairs.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 4, 1950, to an individual believer
The worldwide Bahá’í community is charged with an historic mission. It must acquire capacity to address
increasingly complex spiritual and material requirements as it becomes larger and larger in size. The 28
December 2010 message of the House of Justice indicated: "A small community, whose members are united
by their shared beliefs, characterized by their high ideals, proficient in managing their affairs and tending to
their needs, and perhaps engaged in several humanitarian projects—a community such as this, prospering but
at a comfortable distance from the reality experienced by the masses of humanity, can never hope to serve as a
pattern for restructuring the whole of society." The current series of global Plans sets out provisions for
gradually building individual and collective capacity for the community's mission. The institutions of a Baha'i
community that has been allowed to become complacent will find it difficult to protect the younger
members from the forces of gross materialism, with the accompanying moral decay, that are assailing
society. This, then, points to the nature of the capacity-building process in which every Baha'i institution
must energetically engage.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 23. 2013, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
DISTINGUISH WHICH LAWS ASSEMBLY HAS DUTY TO ENFORCE
It would seem to be important to make clear to the friends that the “laws” of the Faith must be regarded in
various lights. There are laws, ordinances, exhortations and principles, all of which are sometimes loosely
referred to as “laws.” All are very important for the life of the community and the spiritual life of the
individual, but they are applied differently. Some affect the society and the social relationships, and the
Spiritual Assemblies are responsible for their enforcement. … Then there are those high ethical standards to
which Bahá'u'lláh calls His followers, such as trustworthiness, abstention from backbiting, and so on;
generally speaking, obedience to these is a matter for individual conscience, and the Assemblies should not
pry into people’s lives to see whether or not they are following them; nevertheless, if a believer’s conduct falls
so far below the standard set by Bahá'u'lláh that it becomes a flagrant disgrace and brings the name of the
Faith into disrepute, the Assembly would have to intervene, to encourage the believer to correct his ways, to
warn him of the consequences of continued misconduct, and possibly, if he does not respond, to deprive him
of his administrative rights.
In other words, the friends should realize the importance of following all the teachings and not assume that
merely because an offense is not punishable it is therefore less grave. Assemblies, on the other hand, should
distinguish clearly between those laws which it is their duty to enforce, those which should be left strictly to
the conscience of the individual, and those in which it may have to intervene if the misbehavior is blatant and
injurious to the good name of the Faith ...
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 12, 1984, to an individual Bahá'í, in Messages from the Universal House of
Justice, 1963–1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 405.2-405.3
ADMINISTERING LAWS
Upholding Laws with Love, Sensitivity, and Firmness
Assemblies must uphold the laws of the Faith with firmness so that the integrity of the Faith is preserved and
the friends guided to conform their conduct to the teachings. At the same time, Assemblies must temper their
actions with love. Bahá’u’lláh counseled that “One must guide mankind to the ocean of true understanding in
a spirit of love and tolerance.” (The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 6)
Educating the friends — especially new believers — about Bahá’u’lláh’s laws and their purpose, and
counseling those who have difficulty adhering to them, are important aspects of administering Bahá’í law.
While an Assembly should be loving, sympathetic and patient as it helps each believer understand the
necessity of obeying the laws of Bahá’u’lláh, it nevertheless must let him know that the laws of the Faith
cannot be compromised. As Local Assemblies grow in their abilities to uphold and administer the laws of
Bahá’u’lláh, they will exert an even stronger influence on mankind.
Show forbearance and benevolence and love to one another. Should any one among you be incapable of
grasping a certain truth, or be striving to comprehend it, show forth, when conversing with him, a spirit of
extreme kindliness and good-will. Help him to see and recognize the truth, without esteeming yourself to be,
in the least, superior to him, or to be possessed of greater endowments.
Bahá’u’lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, p. 8
The members of these Assemblies, on their part, must disregard utterly their own likes and dislikes, their
personal interests and inclinations, and concentrate their minds upon those measures that will conduce to the
welfare and happiness of the Bahá'í Community and promote the common weal.
Shoghi Effendi, Baha'i Administration, p. 41
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
And when inevitable problems arise, whether in relation to some activity or among individuals, they will be
addressed by a Local Spiritual Assembly which has so completely gained the confidence of the members of
the community that all naturally turn to it for assistance. This implies that the Assembly has learned through
experience how to help the believers put aside the divisive ways of a partisan mindset, how to find the seeds
of unity in even the most perplexing and thorny situations and how to nurture them slowly and lovingly,
upholding at all times the standard of justice.
As the community grows in size and in capacity to maintain vitality, the friends will, we have indicated in the
past, be drawn further into the life of society and be challenged to take advantage of the approaches they have
developed to respond to a widening range of issues that face their village. The question of coherence, so
essential to the growth achieved thus far, and so fundamental to the Plan's evolving framework for action,
now assumes new dimensions. Much will fall on the Local Assembly, not as an executor of projects but as the
voice of moral authority, to make certain that, as the friends strive to apply the teachings of the Faith to
improve conditions through a process of action, reflection and consultation, the integrity of their endeavours
is not compromised.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 2010, to the Conference of the Continental Board of Counselors
The aim of any Spiritual Assembly should be to develop a warm and loving relationship with the believers in
its community, so that it can most effectively nurture and encourage them in the acquisition of a deeper
understanding of the Teachings and can assist them to follow the Bahá'í principles in their personal conduct.
The Assembly should aspire to being regarded by the members of the community as a loving parent, wise in
its understanding of the varying degrees of maturity of those entrusted to its care, compassionate in dealing
with the problems which arise as a result of any shortcomings, ever prepared to guide them to the correct path,
and very patient as they strive to effect the necessary changes in their behaviour.  Such an approach is far
removed from the harshly judgemental and punitive approach which so often characterizes the administration
of law in the wider society. The Bahá’í application of justice, firmly rooted in spiritual principle and animated
by the desire to foster the spiritual development of the members of the community, will increasingly be seen
as a distinctive and highly attractive feature of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.
From a letter dated January 13, 2011 written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to a National Spiritual Assembly
In discharging their educational responsibilities towards the body of the believers, the institutions of the Faith
need to bear in mind how little is accomplished when their efforts are reduced to repeated admonitions or to
dogmatic instruction in proper conduct. Rather should their aim be to raise consciousness and to increase
understanding. Theirs is not the duty to pry into personal lives or to impose Bahá’í law on the individual but
to create an environment in which the friends eagerly arise to fulfil their obligations as followers of
Bahá'u'lláh, to uphold His law, and to align their lives with His teachings. The efforts of the institutions will
bear fruit to the extent that the friends, especially those of the younger generation, find themselves immersed
in the activities of a vibrant and growing community and feel confirmed in the mission with which Bahá'u'lláh
has entrusted them.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated April 23, 2013, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Helping the believers to meet high moral standards does not require prying into their private lives. The nature
of this responsibility is essentially educative. The loving advice Board members offer Local Assemblies, on
the one hand, and the warm fellowship they and their assistants cultivate with the friends, on the other, are
ready means through which they are able to advance this educational process. The cumulative effect of these
efforts, combined with the benefits the friends derive from formal courses, for instance those offered by the
training institute, contributes greatly to the creation of healthy and vibrant local communities.
Universal House of Justice, The Institution of the Counsellors, p. 26
The doors are open for all of humanity to enter the Bahá’í community, irrespective of their present
circumstance. Associated with this invitation is the expectation that all those who accept Bahá’u’lláh as a
Manifestation of God will make a sincere and persistent effort to modify those aspects of their conduct which
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
are not in conformity with His Law. Spiritual Assemblies should, to a certain extent, be forbearing in the
matter of people’s moral conduct, in view of the terrible deterioration of society in general. It would be a
profound contradiction, however, for someone to profess the intention to be a Bahá’í, yet consciously reject,
disregard or contend with aspects of belief or practice ordained by Bahá’u’lláh. It would only be reasonable,
therefore, for a Local Assembly to request that a person with such views wait until this contradiction is
resolved before enrolling in the Bahá’í community.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 20, 2009, to a Local Spiritual Assembly
[T]here may be times when specific action is required on the part of the institutions to protect it and to
uphold the law. Intervention in any specific case needs, of course, to be carried out with the utmost delicacy
and wisdom. Such cases present themselves when the breach of Bahá’í law is public and flagrant, potentially
bringing the Faith into disrepute and damaging its good name, or when the individual demonstrates a callous
disregard for the teachings and the institutions of the Faith, with harmful consequences for the functioning of
the Bahá’í community. In these circumstances, Spiritual Assemblies should follow a middle way: They should
not adopt a passive approach, which would be tantamount to condoning behaviour contrary to the teachings
and which would undermine the imperative to obey Bahá’í law in the eyes of the members of the community.
Neither, however, should they act rashly or rigidly to enforce the law, imposing administrative sanctions
arbitrarily.
Should the conduct of a believer become so blatant as to attract the attention of the Assembly, it would want,
after gaining a relatively clear picture of the issues, to offer loving but firm advice to the friend involved. In
most cases it is necessary, in the first instance, to determine to what extent the believer understands the Faith
and its standards. Dispassionate counselling, not infrequently over an extended period, to assist the individual
concerned in gaining an appreciation of the requirements of Bahá’í law is generally required. So, too, is
patience needed, and he or she should be given sufficient time to bring about a change. The Assembly, often
aided by the Counsellors or the members of the Auxiliary Boards, may have to help the individual reflect on
his or her particular circumstances, apply relevant principles, and explore available options. In deciding on
what approach to take, the Assembly should be guided by the understanding that its objective is to assist the
friends to draw closer to the Faith while taking care to protect the Bahá’í community from the negative
influence of those who have no intention of adhering to its standards. When a believer demonstrates an
allegiance to the Cause and a willingness to rectify the situation, continued patience and loving guidance are
in order. All throughout, of course, care is taken to ensure that an individual’s struggles do not become a
source of backbiting or disunity in the community. In this the members of the community need to remember
that they should each focus their energies on their own spiritual development and on overcoming their
personal shortcomings.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated April 23, 2013, to a National Spiritual Assembly
It is hoped that, through your ongoing endeavours to educate the community in the laws of God, the friends in
your country will increasingly come to appreciate the significance of obedience to these laws within the
context of the greater purpose of the Revelation to carry forward an ever-advancing civilization.  Bahá’ís
should understand not only what it is they should do but why these actions are important for the spiritual
health both of individuals and of society.  Such efforts can also aim to help the believers recognize that the
measures taken by the institutions of the Faith to apply the laws of Bahá’u’lláh with justice and firmness are
ultimately intended to increase the believers’ understanding of, and devotion to, the laws and principles of the
Faith; in this way, the friends are assisted in making the necessary adjustments to their lives and come to
strive wholeheartedly to obey the laws not through fear of punishment but out of love for Bahá’u’lláh and as
an essential response to the needs of the soul.
Letter dated December 16, 2014 written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to a National Spiritual Assembly
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
Preserving Confidentiality
Regarding the question of confidentiality, the believers should be educated to a deeper understanding of the
value of their turning to their institutions for assistance with such problems, confident that by this means
justice will prevail. Together with that, it is essential that the members of the Assemblies be fully aware of the
obligation imposed upon them to avoid any leakage of information from the Assembly meeting to other
believers who have no legitimate reason to be so informed.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 12, 1990, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The Assembly is responsible for preserving the confidentiality of its own deliberations and of any personal
information that comes to its attention. The importance of this responsibility cannot be overemphasized, as it
is a key factor in establishing whether the members of the community will trust the Assembly in dealing with
sensitive matters and information related to their personal affairs.
It should also be pointed out that if an Assembly member divulges confidential information to another person
outside the Assembly or seeks to testify about statements received in an official capacity without the
permission of the person making those statements, that Assembly member may be held legally responsible
for his or her actions and may possibly jeopardize the privileged status of the Assembly.
See also:
Member Confidentiality Agreement — Ch. 3
Consultation with Others — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Communications — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
Distinction between Attitude of Institutions and of Individuals
There is a tendency to mix up the functions of the Administration and try to apply it in individual
relationships, which is abortive, because the Assembly is a nascent House of Justice and is supposed to
administer, according to the Teachings, the affairs of the community. But individuals toward each other are
governed by love, unity, forgiveness and a sin-covering eye. Once the friends grasp this they will get along
much better, but they keep playing Spiritual Assembly to each other and expect the Assembly to behave like
an individual ...
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 5, 1950, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 270
[I]t should be realized that there is a distinction drawn in the Faith between the attitudes which should
characterize individuals in their relationship to other people, namely, loving forgiveness, forbearance, and
concern with one’s own sins, not the sins of others, and those attitudes which should be shown by the
Spiritual Assemblies, whose duty is to administer the law of God with justice.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated February 6, 1973, in Messages from the Universal House of Justice, 1963–1986: The
Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 126.8
Responsibility of the Individual
As humanity passes through the age of transition in its evolution to a world civilization that will be
illuminated by spiritual values and will be distinguished by its justice and its unity, the role of the Bahá'í
community is clear:  it must accomplish a spiritual transformation of its members, and must offer to the world
a model of the society destined to come into being through the power of the Revelation of Bahá’u’lláh.  In
this long and demanding process, it is inevitable that individual Bahá’ís will, at times, be subject to tests
resulting from the fact that the behavior of their fellow-believers, new or old, does not fully conform to the
standards of the Faith.  When faced with such tests, one might reflect on the following words written on
behalf of Shoghi Effendi to an individual believer: “The greater the patience, the loving understanding, and
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
the forbearance the believers show toward each other and their short-comings, the greater will be the progress
of the whole Bahá'í Community at large.”
Letter dated December 1, 1993 written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to an individual believer
If the misconduct is blatant and flagrant or threatens the interests of the Faith the believer to whose attention
it comes should immediately report it to the Local Spiritual Assembly. Once it is in the hand of the Assembly
the believer’s obligation is discharged and he should do no more than pray for the offender and continue to
show him friendship and encouragement — unless, of course, the Spiritual Assembly asks him to take specific
action.
Sometimes, however, the matter does not seem grave enough to warrant reporting to the Spiritual Assembly,
in which case it may be best to ignore it altogether. There are also other things that can be done by the Bahá’í
to whose notice such things come. For example he could foster friendly relations with the individual
concerned, tactfully drawing him into Bahá’í activities in the hope that, as his knowledge of the teachings and
awareness of the Faith deepens, he will spontaneously improve his patterns of conduct. Or perhaps the
relationship is such that he can tactfully draw the offender’s attention to the teachings on the subject — but
here he must be very careful not to give the impression of prying into a fellow-believer’s private affairs or of
telling him what he must do, which would not only be wrong in itself but might well produce the reverse of
the desired reaction.
If a believer faced with knowledge of another Bahá’ís conduct is unsure what course to take, he can, of
course, always consult his Local Spiritual Assembly for advice. If, for some reason, he is reluctant at that
stage to inform his Spiritual Assembly, he can consult an Auxiliary Board member or assistant.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 20, 1977, to an individual believer
Whatever steps are taken, it is vital that the believers refrain from gossip and backbiting, for this can only
harm the Faith, causing perhaps more damage than would have been caused by the original offense.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 20, 1977, to an individual believer
Obviously lying and backbiting among the friends are prohibited most categorically in the Faith, but when a
friend is reporting to the Assembly on a matter…in the community, the act in itself is not backbiting. Indeed,
the believer is doing his duty by reporting the matter to the Assembly. Sometimes, when such a report is given
to the Assembly, the person reporting may be bound by a promise of confidentiality not to reveal the identity
of the source of the information; in such a case the Assembly cannot require the believer to disclose the
source.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 9, 1978
Believers called upon to provide information should, if necessary, be reminded of the responsibility they bear
to speak the truth and of the spiritual consequences of a failure to do so. `Abdu'l-Bahá asserts:
Truthfulness is the foundation of all human virtues.  Without truthfulness, progress and success, in all the
worlds of God, are impossible for any soul.  When this holy attribute is established in man, all the divine
qualities will also be acquired.
If this “holy attribute” should adorn the behavior of believers toward others, how much more should it
characterize the statements which a Bahá’í makes to a divinely ordained institution.
The prospect of a believer’s displaying an attitude of hostility, when being interviewed by a Spiritual
Assembly or its representatives who are seeking to determine the facts of the matter, is abhorrent.  All
believers are strongly enjoined to have the utmost respect for the Assemblies, to cooperate fully with them,
and to support their decision.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to a National Spiritual Assembly, dated December 9, 1991
See also:
Relationship between the Assembly and Its Bahá'ís Community — Ch. 1
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
Backbiting and Gossiping — Ch. 10
HANDLING VIOLATIONS OF BAHÁ’Í LAW
While responsibility for adhering to the Bahá’í standard rests primarily on the individual believer, it is
incumbent upon the institutions of the Faith to support the individual, largely through educational endeavours,
and to foster a pattern of community life that is conductive to the spiritual upliftment of its members.  It is
understood, of course, that in the assumption of these and other sacred duties, Bahá’í institutions may find it
necessary at times to take specific action as a means of protecting the community and the integrity of Bahá’í
law.
… Intervention in any specific case needs, of course, to be carried out with the utmost delicacy and wisdom.
Such cases present themselves when the breach of Bahá’í law is public and flagrant, potentially bringing the
Faith into disrepute and damaging its good name, or when the individual demonstrates a callous disregard for
the teachings and the institutions of the Faith, with harmful consequences for the functioning of the Bahá’í
community. In these circumstances, Spiritual Assemblies should follow a middle way: They should not adopt
a passive approach, which would be tantamount to condoning behaviour contrary to the teachings and which
would undermine the imperative to obey Bahá’í law in the eyes of the members of the community. Neither,
however, should they act rashly or rigidly to enforce the law, imposing administrative sanctions arbitrarily.
Should the conduct of a believer become so blatant as to attract the attention of the Assembly, it would want,
after gaining a relatively clear picture of the issues, to offer loving but firm advice to the friend involved. In
most cases it is necessary, in the first instance, to determine to what extent the believer understands the Faith
and its standards. Dispassionate counselling, not infrequently over an extended period, to assist the individual
concerned in gaining an appreciation of the requirements of Bahá’í law is generally required. So, too, is
patience needed, and he or she should be given sufficient time to bring about a change. The Assembly, often
aided by the Counsellors or the members of the Auxiliary Boards, may have to help the individual reflect on
his or her particular circumstances, apply relevant principles, and explore available options. In deciding on
what approach to take, the Assembly should be guided by the understanding that its objective is to assist the
friends to draw closer to the Faith while taking care to protect the Bahá’í community from the negative
influence of those who have no intention of adhering to its standards. When a believer demonstrates an
allegiance to the Cause and a willingness to rectify the situation, continued patience and loving guidance are
in order. All throughout, of course, care is taken to ensure that an individual's struggles do not become a
source of backbiting or disunity in the community. In this the members of the community need to remember
that they should each focus their energies on their own spiritual development and on overcoming their
personal shortcomings.
Only in circumstances where a believer, ignoring all admonishments, persists in misconduct and knowingly
and consistently violates the law, would it be necessary to the Assembly to consider applying administrative
sanctions—this, after warning the individual of the consequences of his or her continued disregard for the
teachings.  The decision in such matters is left to the National Spiritual Assembly, which is to proceed with
the utmost care and circumspection.  What is at stake is the participation of the individual in those aspects of
community life internal to the body of the followers of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings, not his or her civil rights.  In
some cases, partial sanctions may be adequate, allowing the Assembly to deal with a situation in a flexible
manner. … Full removal of administrative rights should be reserved for the most severe and intractable cases,
especially when the protection of the community becomes a concern.  The wise use of partial sanctions thus
provides the Assembly with another means of strengthening the individual and the community.  … There may
be times when an individual who shows complete indifference to the counsels of the institutions and firm
resolution in his or her desire to maintain the status quo has no apparent interest in engaging in the life of the
Bahá’í community. In such a case, provided that his or her conduct has no significant bearing on the good
name of the Faith, the Assembly may decide to leave the individual to go his or her own way, neither insisting
on continued contact nor feeling obliged to impose sanctions.  Equally, however, the Assembly need not be
anxious about quickly removing the name of the individual from its rolls, given that circumstances change
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
and a person may, over time, decide to mend his or her ways and return to participate in the life of the
community.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated April 23, 2013, to a National Spiritual Assembly
After full consideration, the Spiritual Assembly should take such action as it deems advisable, and it is
incumbent upon all members of the group to be loyal to whatever decision is arrived at by the Spiritual
Assembly. There is, of course the right of appeal from the Local to the National Assembly, and from that to
Shoghi Effendi*, but the matter ought to be dealt with, in the first instance, by the Local Spiritual Assembly.
... When a difficulty is brought out into the daylight and freely discussed by a duly authorised and responsible
group of people who are sincerely desirous of finding the best solution and are free from prejudice or personal
motive, then there is a good chance of overcoming it, but discussion of the faults of others behind their backs
by unauthorised people who have no authority to take action in the matter, is surely one of the most fertile
causes—probably THE most fertile cause—of disunity, and the importance of putting an end to this practice
should be impressed on all Bahá'ís.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated February 11, 1925, to a National Spiritual Assembly, followed by an extract from the
Guardian's postscript, in Lights of Guidance, no. 308
*(Now the Universal House of Justice)
An Assembly enquiring into a matter should not allow itself to be deterred by the hostility of a believer who
is withholding relevant information; it should appeal to him for cooperation, remind him forcefully of his
responsibilities and, in extreme cases such as threats made to the investigators, warm him of the
administrative consequences of the persistence of his deplorable conduct.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to a National Spiritual Assembly, dated December 9, 1991
After learning about a problem that may require action, the Local Spiritual Assembly decides what information
it needs, from what sources the information will be obtained, and how it will gather the information.
Once the Assembly determines what questions are to be asked and who is to be contacted, it may request
individuals to appear before it, send a representative or representatives (who need not be Assembly
members) to meet with the person, or gather information by mail or telephone. Assemblies with large Bahá’í
communities have also found it helpful to appoint task forces on personal status to assist them in gathering
background information. Since they must receive information of a sensitive nature, members of such task
forces should be trustworthy and able to maintain confidences.
If the violation involves abuse of any kind, the Assembly should refer to Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on
Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies before determining who, when,
and how to meet with affected parties, as there may be safety issues involved.
See also:
Appointments as Needed by Community — Ch. 3
Consultation with Others — Ch. 4
Tone of Communications
[I]t should be realized that there is a distinction drawn in the Faith between the attitudes which should
characterize individuals in their relationship to other people, namely, loving forgiveness, forbearance, and
concern with one’s own sins, not the sins of others, and those attitudes which should be shown by the
Spiritual Assemblies, whose duty is to administer the law of God with justice.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated February 6, 1973 to all National Spiritual Assemblies
The temperament of authority in the administration of justice varies according to the degree of the gravity of
each case.  Some cases require that the Assembly take action that is firm or drastic.  Even so, Assembly
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
members have always to be mindful that the authority they wield must in general be expressed with love,
humility and a genuine respect for others. Thus exercised, authority strikes a natural note and accords with
that which is acceptable to spiritually attuned and fair minded souls.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 19, 1994 to a National Spiritual Assembly
When communicating with believers concerning violations of Bahá'í law, the Assembly should be particularly
careful about the tone and phrasing of its communications. Wording about sensitive matters can easily be
misunderstood, misread, or have a different impact than the Assembly intended it to have.
See also:
Communications — Correspondence — Ch. 4
Due Process
The concept of due process, in the sense of a legal principle which may be embodied in a constitution and
which requires the government to treat people fairly, is clearly encompassed by the Bahá’í principle of
“Divine justice,” a principle characterized as “the crowning distinction of all Local and National Assemblies.”
It is also implicit in the qualities of rectitude of conduct to be manifested “in every verdict which the elected
representatives of the Bahá’í community ... may be called upon to pronounce.”
The term “due process” is also used to indicate a set of formal legal procedures designed to protect the rights
of persons accused of wrongdoing. These procedures vary from place to place and may reflect the prevailing
political ideology. The Administrative Order has not adopted a formal set of procedures to be applied
universally in the Bahá’í community for dealing with infringements of Bahá’í law. Rather, the Spiritual
Assembly in its operation is guided and constrained by the Teachings and committed to protect and preserve
the rights of both the individual and the community. Hence, while there is no fixed procedure for the
discovery of facts necessary for the adjudication of a case, it is a matter of principle that Assemblies must,
before passing judgment, acquaint themselves, through means they themselves devise, with the facts of any
case. The principal motive is not to condemn and punish the individual but to assist him, if necessary, to bring
his behavior into conformity with the Teachings and also to protect the community.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 20, 1988, included with a letter dated January 1, 1989, to a
National Spiritual Assembly
In considering the administration of justice, it is important to distinguish between the adversarial mode of the
civil legal procedures and the spirit of loving consultation that frames the search for truth in the Bahá'í Faith.
Within the civil legal system, each party to a case retains independent legal counsel that endeavors to defend
his or her perspective on a situation.  Such an approach, based on the requirement to vigorously defend one
perspective against another, directly inhibits the Bahá'í approach to investigating truth through consultation,
which requires that all parties be detached from preconceived conclusions.
Given this framework for the investigation of truth in Bahá'í affairs, it is neither necessary nor appropriate for a
sincere believer to retain the services of a lawyer in a matter that is under the purview of a Spiritual Assembly.
See also:
Consultation — Ch. 4
Each Case Considered on Own Merits
In deciding whether or not to remove voting rights, every case should be considered on its merits and in light
of the particular circumstances.  The purpose of the administrative sanction should be borne clearly in mind in
deciding how much weight to give to factors such as the passage of time, the extent to which the individual
concerned has experienced an adverse reaction in the Bahá'í community, the degree of suffering and contrition
exhibited buy the believer whose status is being questioned, his stature in the Bahá'í community or the wider
society, and media publicity of his delinquent behavior.  While there is room for compassion, this should not
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
deflect you from giving due consideration to the responsibility you bear to protect the community and its
good name, and to uphold the authority of Bahá'í law.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice dated December 9, 1991 to a National Spiritual Assembly
There are certain teachings and exhortations the observance of which is solely between the individual and
God; the non-observance of other laws and ordinances incurs some form of sanction. Some of these violations
incur punishment for a single offense, while others are punished only after repeated warnings have failed to
remedy the violation. It is not possible to establish a single rule applicable automatically and invariably. Every
case is different, and there is more than one variable consideration to take into account, for example, the
circumstances of the individual, the degree to which the good name of the Faith is involved, whether the
offense is blatant and flagrant.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 20, 1977, to an individual believer
While reference to previous cases may shed light on how an institution applied the laws and principles of the
Faith in a prior situation, an Assembly is still obligated to consider all the facts of each case individually and,
after prayerful discussion, arrive at a decision by applying the pertinent spiritual principles.
Assembly Must Evaluate Situation before Acting
[T]he Local Assemblies must not react automatically to every mistake, but distinguish between those that are
self-correcting with the passage of time and do no particular harm to the community and those which require
Assembly intervention. Related to this is the tendency of the friends to criticize each other at the slightest
provocation, whereas the Teachings call upon them to encourage each other. Such tendencies are of course
motivated by a deep love for the Faith, a desire to see it free of any flaw. But human beings are not perfect.
The Local Assemblies and the friends must be helped through your example and through loving counsel to
refrain from such a pattern of criticism, which stunts the growth and development of the community.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 19, 1994, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Rights and Responsibilities: The
Complementary Roles of the Individual and Institutions, p.46
[I]n matters concerning the deprivation of voting rights, an Assembly should bear in mind that, at the present
time, when Bahá'í laws are being progressively applied and a sizeable proportion of a community consists of
newly declared believers, an Assembly may accept ignorance of the Bahá'í law as a valid excuse when it is
convinced that such ignorance existed; great wisdom is required in the application of this provision, since it is
not unknown for a believer guilty of flagrant misconduct to attempt to escape the administrative consequence
of his behavior through a fervent but spurious claim of ignorance of the law.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice dated December 9, 1991 to a National Spiritual Assembly
Misconduct by Iranian Refugees
Your Assembly has, no doubt, noticed that many of the young Iranian refugees who have recently come to
your country via Turkey and Pakistan are, unfortunately, not very deepened in the Faith, as they have not, in
the past nine years, had the benefit of Bahá'í classes generally offered to young Bahá'ís. Therefore, the
behaviour of these Bahá'ís may not measure up to the standard normally expected in the Bahá'í community. If,
however, the actions of these newcomers are such as to harm the best interests of the Cause, this should not be
tolerated.
The Universal House of Justice has observed that, generally, Bahá'í Institutions tend to be too lenient in
dealing with cases of misconduct involving Iranian refugees, and it wishes to emphatically state that the
welfare of the Cause must always take priority over any other consideration. Bahá'í institutions are advised to
handle such cases in a decisive manner, as undue leniency is not justified when the behaviour of these Iranian
Bahá'ís brings the good name of the Faith into disrepute, particularly as vast efforts are being exerted to
deepen and guide them from the time they arrive in their host countries.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
You are requested to convey this information to the Local Spiritual Assemblies in your country.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 13, 1988, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Consultation with Others — Ch. 4
Considerations for Diverse Populations — Ch. 6
Investigation, Review of Facts, Warning When Necessary
Should the conduct of a believer become so blatant as to attract the attention of the Assembly, it would want,
after gaining a relatively clear picture of the issues, to offer loving but firm advice to the friend involved. In
most cases it is necessary, in the first instance, to determine to what extent the believer understands the Faith
and its standards. Dispassionate counselling, not infrequently over an extended period, to assist the individual
concerned in gaining an appreciation of the requirements of Bahá’í law is generally required.  So, too, is
patience needed, and he or she should be given sufficient time to bring about a change.  The Assembly, often
aided by the Counsellors or the members of the Auxiliary Boards, may have to help the individual reflect on
his or her particular circumstances, apply relevant principles, and explore available options.
In deciding on what approach to take, the Assembly should be guided by the understanding that its objective
is to assist the friends to draw closer to the Faith while taking care to protect the Bahá’í community from the
negative influence of those who have no intention of adhering to its standards.  When a believer demonstrates
an allegiance to the Cause and a willingness to rectify the situation, continued patience and loving guidance
are in order. All throughout, of course, care is taken to ensure that an individual’s struggles do not become a
source of backbiting or disunity in the community.  In this the members of the community need to remember
that they should each focus their energies on their own spiritual development and on overcoming their
personal shortcomings.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 23, 2013 to a National Spiritual Assembly
Over and over again the beloved Guardian urged Assemblies to be extremely patient and forbearing in
dealing with the friends. He pointed out on many occasions that removal of administrative rights is the
heaviest sanction which Assemblies may impose at the present time. ... In all such cases it is for the Assembly
to determine at what point the conduct is blatant and flagrant or is harmful to the name of the Faith. They
must determine whether the believer has been given sufficient warning before the imposition of sanctions.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 20, 1977, to an individual believer
The principle that an Assembly should repeatedly warn an offender to correct his ways before it deprives him
of his voting rights applies to such continuing offenses as flagrant immorality, or membership in non-Bahá’í
religious organizations. It cannot be applied in the same way to a one-time offense such as breach of Bahá’í
marriage laws.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 20, 1971, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Consultation with Others – Ch. 4
Violation of Bahá’í Marriage Law — Ch. 11
Responsibility of Local Assembly — Ch. 12
REMOVAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE RIGHTS
In applying these laws and principles your Assembly should, of course, exercise the greatest wisdom,
understanding, love and patience. The sanction of withdrawal of voting rights is the greatest punishment
which a National Assembly may impose upon a believer and for that reason it should not be exercised unless
it is clear that the believer with full knowledge of the laws involved deliberately violated them. Each case
should be considered individually and on its own merits.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated October 20, 1964, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Ignorance of the Law
[I]n matters concerning the deprivation of voting rights, an Assembly should bear in mind that, at the present
time, when Bahá'í laws are being progressively applied and a sizeable proportion of a community consists of
newly declared believers, an Assembly may accept ignorance of the Bahá'í law as a valid excuse when it is
convinced that such ignorance existed; great wisdom is required in the application of this provision, since it is
not unknown for a believer guilty of flagrant misconduct to attempt to escape the administrative consequence
of his behavior through a fervent but spurious claim of ignorance of the law.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice dated December 9, 1991 to a National Spiritual Assembly
If your National Assembly is convinced that one is entirely ignorant of the existence of the Bahá’í laws in this
regard, he should not be deprived of his voting rights for disobedience to them; …
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated April 19, 1964, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Only National Spiritual Assembly May Remove Rights
It will be noted that the model By-laws for Local Spiritual Assemblies sent to you ... provide for Local
Assemblies to exercise [the] function of withdrawing or restoring voting rights of individual believers under
their jurisdiction.
This provision was made in the By-laws because this is inherently a Local Assembly function. However, for
the present, National Assemblies should continue to exercise this function, and should so inform Local
Assemblies under their jurisdiction, if they have not already done so.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 5, 1965, to all National Spiritual Assemblies
The National Assembly is the guardian of the welfare of the Faith, a most sacred and heavy responsibility
and one which is inescapable.  They must be ever vigilant, ever on the look-out, ever ready to take action,
and, on all matters of fundamental principle, refuse to compromise for an instant.  Only in this way can the
body of the Faith be free of disease.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 9, 1991, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Believer Cannot Withdraw to Avoid Bahá’í Law
A believer cannot escape administrative expulsion by the ruse of resigning from the Faith in order to break
its law with impunity. However, the Assembly should be satisfied that there was indeed such an ulterior
motive behind the withdrawal. A believer’s record of inactivity and his general attitude to the Faith may well
lead the Assembly to conclude that his withdrawal was bona fide ... and in such a case the withdrawal may be
accepted.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 20, 1971, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 203
Any member of the Bahá’í Community who finds that he does not believe in Bahá’u’lláh and His Revelation
is free to withdraw from the Faith and such a withdrawal should be accepted. But a Bahá’í who continues to
believe in Bahá’u’lláh cannot withdraw from the Bahá’í Community. While he believes in this Revelation he
is subject to its laws.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 8, 1970, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Any member of the Bahá’í Community who insists on withdrawal cannot be forced to remain on the
membership roll, regardless of the reasons given for desiring withdrawal or whether no reasons are given.
However, in situations where the Assembly is convinced that the withdrawal is to avoid Bahá'í law, it should
include its observations to that effect in its report to the National Assembly.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
See also:
Criteria for Withdrawal — Withdrawing to Avoid Bahá'í Law — Ch. 5
Limited Sanctions
It is also quite permissible for a National Spiritual Assembly to debar an individual believer from serving on a
Local Spiritual Assembly without removing his or her voting rights and they may also debar a believer from
attending the consultative part of a Nineteen Day Feast. You may also debar a believer from voting in
elections without imposing all the other administrative sanctions involved in administrative expulsion.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 31, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 196
In some cases, partial sanctions may be adequate, allowing the Assembly to deal with a situation in a flexible
manner.  For example, if the hope is to reawaken in the individual a desire to participate in community life,
full sanctions may be counterproductive; an appropriate partial sanction, such as suspending his or her right to
be elected to an Assembly, may prove sufficient, for, in any event, it would not be reasonable for a person
who flagrantly violates Bahá’í law to be in a position to govern the affairs of the community.  Restricting the
believer from other forms of service—for instance, acting as a tutor of a study circle or as a children’s class
teacher—may also be considered.   … The wise use of partial sanctions thus provides the Assembly with
another means of strengthening the individual and the community.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 23, 2013, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Assembly Service — Removal of Member — Ch. 2
Deprivation of Administrative Rights — Limited Administrative Rights — Ch. 5
Irresponsible Behavior — Ch. 10
Temporary Restrictions
If the participation of a believer is causing grave problems for a community, the Local Spiritual Assembly may,
provided it notifies and receives approval from the National Spiritual Assembly’s Office of Community
Administration, temporarily ask or instruct the believer not to take part in certain activities within the
community. Restrictions that are intended to last for more than 30 days, however, should be formally
submitted for the National Spiritual Assembly’s consideration.
Sanctions Applied to a Youth
With reference to the question in your second letter as to what disciplinary action can be taken against youth
who are not of voting age, it must be remembered that the removal of his voting rights is administrative
expulsion. In addition to being deprived of his right to vote, the believer cannot attend Feasts or other
meetings for Bahá’ís only; cannot contribute to the Fund; or, cannot have a Bahá’í marriage ceremony. The
restrictions against voting would become operative when the young offender reaches voting age.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated April 14, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 210
Distinction between Function as Adviser and Role of Enforcer
The National Spiritual Assembly should distinguish between its functions as an adviser and counsellor of the
friends and its role as the enforcer of Bahá’í Law. For example, it is quite in order for the Assembly to advise
a believer to consult a psychiatrist or any other doctor, if it feels this is necessary, but such advice should not
be linked with any deprivation of voting rights which may have to be imposed for flagrant immorality. You
may feel it advisable to give such advice to a person who is being deprived of his voting rights, but the two
actions should be clearly separate — one is administrative, the other is advice given for the person’s own
good which he may or may not accept as he wishes.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 21, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
Recommendations to the National Spiritual Assembly
In all cases involving the possible removal or restoration of a believer’s administrative rights, the Local
Assembly should forward a recommendation to the National Spiritual Assembly with reasons for the
recommendation. In order to consider a case, the National Assembly needs information covering the
questions of who, what, where, when, why, and how the case in question evolved.
A report to the National Spiritual Assembly should include the following:
•
A statement defining the problem, including the individual’s name and Bahá'í identification number.
•
A summary of the case, including all actions undertaken by the Local Spiritual Assembly and the
person’s own responses.
•
In all cases involving violation of civil or criminal law where there have been arrests and/or
convictions, details of charges and sentencing should be included. Newspaper clippings showing
name and date of publication should also be attached, if available.
•
Recommendation of a course of action and the rationale for it because, even in criminal cases,
removal of rights is not automatic. The absence of a recommendation from the Local Assembly may
delay the handling of the case.
After reviewing the report, the National Assembly may ask the Local Assembly for further information before
making a decision.
See also:
Correspondence — Ch. 4
Confidential Materials — Ch. 4
Restoration of Administrative Rights — Ch. 10
ANNOUNCING THE LOSS OF ADMINISTRATIVE RIGHTS
It is within the discretion of a National Spiritual Assembly to decide whether to notify the community when a
believer has been deprived of his administrative rights; the Assembly is also free to decide how such
notification is to be made, and whether or not the reasons for the deprivation are to be disclosed.  Such
decisions might be made with regard to the purposes which would be served by such an announcement, and
the benefit to the community of this knowledge. If a believer advises you of an appeal to the Universal House
of Justice against your decision to withdraw his voting rights, he remains without these rights while the merit
of his appeal is being assessed by the House of Justice; it would generally be preferable not to make an
announcement to the community about his loss of voting rights while the appeal is being considered, but
special circumstances, such as the imperative need to protect the Bahá’í community from his actions, could
compel you to do otherwise.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 9, 1991, to a National Spiritual Assembly
After removing a believer's administrative rights, the National Assembly may ask the Local Spiritual Assembly
to announce it to the community. This should be a simple announcement at Feast and/or in the community
newsletter stating that the individual is no longer in possession of his or her administrative rights. Further
details should not be provided. If a restriction has  been placed on the individual for the protection of the
community (for example, that he or she is restricted from having unsupervised contact with children and
youth), it should be announced as well. If questions arise, the Local Assembly should respond that the matter
is confidential between the individual and the institutions of the Faith. The Local Assembly may also want to
remind the community that the matter should not become a source of gossip or backbiting, and to encourage
the community to keep the individual in their prayers.
MEANING OF DEPRIVATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE RIGHTS
Regarding the matter of believers who have been deprived of their voting rights; just as no one should ever
be deprived of his voting right lightly, it should, likewise, be realized that to be deprived of it is a grave
matter, and involving heavy penalties spiritually. People who have been so deprived should not be permitted
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
to attend any meetings involving the administration of the Cause, such as an election or a Nineteen Day Feast.
They can attend the Nine Holy Days; however, they should not be married by Bahá’í Law, no money should
be accepted from them, they should not be given credentials (which imply a member of the community in
good standing), nor should they be used officially as teachers or speakers.
Shoghi Effendi, in Principles of Bahá’í Administration, p. 88
A Bahá’í who has lost his administrative rights is administratively expelled from the community and
therefore is not subject to the jurisdiction of the Spiritual Assembly in the matter of laws of personal status,
such as divorce, unless, of course, he is involved in such a matter through having a Bahá’í spouse in good
standing from whom the divorce is taking place. His observance of such laws is a matter of conscience and he
would not be subject to further sanctions for non-observance of Bahá’í laws during the period he is without
voting rights.
In the case you mention, therefore, where the Bahá’í without voting rights is being divorced from his non-
Bahá’í wife, the Assembly should not take jurisdiction of the matter. He is free to obtain a civil divorce and
whether or not he observes a year of waiting is a matter for his own conscience.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 6, 1982, to an individual believer
One who has lost his voting rights is considered to be a Bahá’í but not one in good standing. The following
restrictions and limitations apply to such a believer:
•
He cannot attend Nineteen Day Feasts or other meetings for Bahá’ís only, including International
Conferences, and therefore cannot take part in consultation of the affairs of the community.
•
He cannot contribute to the Bahá’í Fund.
•
He cannot receive newsletters and other bulletins whose circulation is restricted to Bahá’ís.
•
He cannot have a Bahá’í marriage ceremony and therefore is not able to marry a Bahá’í.
•
He may not have a Bahá’í pilgrimage.
•
Although he is free to teach the Faith on his own behalf, he should not be used as a teacher or speaker
in programs sponsored by Bahá’ís.
•
He is debarred from participating in administrative matters, including the right to vote in Bahá’í
elections.
•
He cannot hold office or be appointed to a committee.
•
He should not be given credentials (which imply that he is a Bahá’í in good standing).
Attachment to a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 9, 1985, to a National Spiritual Assembly,
in Lights of Guidance, no. 216
Given the severity of the sanction, those who have been deprived of their administrative rights should not be
permitted to attend any meetings involving the administration of the Cause. Although the agencies of the
Faith responsible for organizing reflection meetings at the level of the cluster may choose to open them up to
individuals who are not Bahá'ís but are close to the Faith, believers without their full administrative rights are
not entitled to attend such meetings.
Email from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 30, 2008, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Although generally speaking a believer deprived of his voting rights is not restricted except as stated above,
the following privileges have been expressly stipulated as not denied:
•
He may attend the observances of the nine Holy Days.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
•
He may attend any Bahá’í function open to non-Bahá’ís [except cluster reflection meetings as stated
in the preceding extract].
•
He may receive any publication available to non-Bahá’ís.
•
He is free to teach the Faith as every individual believer has been enjoined by Bahá’u’lláh to teach.
•
Association with other believers is not forbidden.
•
He may have the Bahá’í burial service if he or his family requests it, and he may be buried in a Bahá’í
cemetery.
•
Bahá’í charity should not be denied him on the ground that he has lost his voting rights.
•
Bahá’í institutions may employ him, but should use discretion as to the type of work he is to perform.
•
He should have access to the Spiritual Assembly.
Attachment to a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 9, 1985, to a National Spiritual Assembly,
in Lights of Guidance, no. 217
A believer who has lost his administrative rights may not be eligible to tutor study circles, to teach children’s
classes, or to animate junior youth groups, since these forms of service are considered as teaching in
programs sponsored by the Faith. In addition he may not have his products or publications promoted or sold
through Bahá’í bookstores or other Baha’i agencies.
In cases when a believer deprived of administrative rights has been counseled to no avail about disruptive
behavior in gatherings open to the public, the Assembly may recommend placing additional limitations on his
or her right to attend such meetings. Similarly, a believer may be restricted from having unsupervised contact
with children and/or youth.
See also:
Deprivation of Administrative Rights — Ch. 5
Checking Credentials — Local Assemblies Are Not to Provide Credentials — Ch. 5
And in Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies, Role and Responsibilities of Assembly — Recommendations for Administrative Sanctions
Attitude of Community toward Those Deprived
The degree to which a community should be active or passive towards a believer who is deprived of his
voting rights depends upon the circumstances in each individual case. Obviously, it is desirable that such a
person should come to see the error of his ways and rectify his condition. In some cases friendly approaches
by the Bahá’ís may help to attain this; in other cases the individual may react more favourably if left to his
own devices for a time.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 1, 1973, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no 212
It is only those who have been spiritually ex-communicated[1] by the Guardian with whom the believers are
forbidden to associate, and not a person who is being punished by being deprived of his voting rights.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated May 8, 1947, to several National Spiritual Assemblies, in Dawn of a New Day,
p. 123
[1]This refers to Covenant-breaking. See “Covenant-Breaking” in
Protection Chapter for clarification of what is and is not Covenant-breaking.
HANDLING APPEALS
While most appeals are in relation to administrative rights decisions, believers may appeal any decision. If a
person is not satisfied with the decision of the Local Spiritual Assembly, he or she may appeal to the National
Spiritual Assembly by requesting that the Local Assembly forward the appeal to the National Assembly.
However, the individual should first ask the Local Assembly to reconsider the matter, stating why he or she
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
feels the reconsideration is justified. Following the Assembly’s reconsideration of the matter, if the party is still
not satisfied with the Local Assembly’s decision, she or he may appeal according to the following process:
An appellant, whether institution or individual, shall in the first instance make appeal to the Assembly
whose decision is questioned, either for reconsideration of the case by that Assembly or for submission to
a higher body. In the latter case the Assembly is in duty bound to submit the appeal together with full
particulars of the matter. If an Assembly refuses to submit the appeal, or fails to do so within a reasonable
time, the appellant may take the case directly to the higher authority.
Universal House of Justice, The Constitution of the Universal House of Justice, 1972, p. 15
When forwarding an appeal, the Local Assembly should be sure to include its own comments and any
relevant background materials. If the individual or Local Assembly is dissatisfied with the decision of the
National Assembly, the case may be appealed to the Universal House of Justice through a similar process.
While the appeal is in progress, the original decision remains in place.
See also:
Process of Consultation — Appeal of a Decision — Ch. 4
Disputes — Ch. 14
And the By-Laws of a Local Spiritual Assembly, Article X
Assembly Obligated to Forward Appeal
If an appeal has been made you have no alternative but to forward it.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 15, 1979, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Second Party Appeals
You are correct in your understanding that an aggrieved party should appeal on his own behalf from a
decision of a Spiritual Assembly. Appeal by proxy — that is, on the initiative of someone else — is not
acceptable. However, any believer may exercise the freedom to request a Spiritual Assembly to reconsider a
decision, regardless of the individual or individuals affected by it; but the Assembly has the right to determine
whether or not to accede to such a request.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 1, 1989, to a National Spiritual Assembly
May Be Preferable to Drop Appeal
He suggests you let the entire matter of your appeal drop. Unless a very serious major issue is involved ... to
drive these subjects home is far more likely to do the Cause harm than good. There are many mistakes made,
but they are, for the most part, not serious enough to warrant creating inharmony and raising issues which
lead to endless argument and discussion, wasting time and energy better spent on creative action.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated December 8, 1950, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations,
Vol. II, no. 1512
See also:
Relationship between Assembly and the Bahá’í Community — Ch. 1
RESTORATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE RIGHTS
An individual may regain his or her rights and privileges of Bahá’í membership by expressing sincere
repentance and by demonstrating that the condition that led to the deprivation of rights has been corrected.
The Assembly must determine specifically what the believer has done to correct his or her behavior before
making any recommendation to the National Spiritual Assembly. In some cases, rectifying the error can be
held to constitute repentance.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
In the case of a violation of Bahá’í marriage law, the request for reinstatement must indicate a willingness to
correct the matter by having a Bahá’í marriage ceremony (or obtaining a civil divorce) or to obey whatever
other instructions may be given by the National Assembly. A Bahá’í marriage ceremony cannot take place,
however, until after the National Assembly has restored the believer's administrative rights.
If the individual lives within the jurisdiction of a Local Spiritual Assembly, his or her application for restoration
of rights should be made to that institution. When the Assembly is satisfied that all the necessary conditions
exist for restoration of administrative rights, it will recommend such to the National Assembly.
If the individual does not live within the jurisdiction of a Local Assembly, he or she may apply directly to the
National Assembly, which may request the assistance of a nearby Local Assembly in meeting with the
believer.
Expression of Repentance
Repentance is the return from disobedience to obedience.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Some Answered Questions, p. 91
In all cases of application for restoration of voting rights your Assembly should satisfy itself that the believer
is sincerely repentant of his act of disobedience — not merely that he regrets the unhappy condition he is in
and wishes to re-enter the Bahá’í Community.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 8, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Each case must be considered on its own merits and no hard and fast rules can be laid down. It is for your
Assembly to determine, in each case, whether the facts justify restoration of voting rights. Restoration of
voting rights often requires repentance by the offender ... the repentance required to be shown differs in
degree and form from case to case. At one extreme is the case of a believer who is no longer able to rectify the
wrong he has committed — for example when he has lost his voting rights for marrying without parental
consent and the parents have since died — in such a case the factor of repentance is particularly important. At
the other extreme is the case of a believer who has been deprived of his voting rights because the Assembly is
convinced by the evidence that he was guilty of the offense, but who maintains that, in spite of all
appearances to the contrary, he is innocent. There is no requirement that such a believer admit guilt before the
voting rights can be restored. The believer must, however, comply with the Assembly’s instructions as to his
behavior. In between these extremes are many cases where the very rectifying of the error can be held to
constitute repentance.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 7, 1979, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Local Spiritual Assembly
Handbook, 3rd ed., Bahá'í Publishing Australia, par. 9.4.4
It can happen, for example, that voting rights are removed mistakenly and the incorrect action of the
Assembly is the basis for the believer’s application for their restoration. If the voting rights have been
removed justifiably it is generally sufficient for the believer to take the necessary actions to have them
restored; his application for restoration and compliance with the requirements of Bahá’í law are sufficient
evidence of repentance. However, if the Assembly sees that the believer does not understand the reason for
the deprivation and has a rebellious attitude it should endeavor to make the matter clear to him. If his attitude
is one of contempt for the Bahá’í law and his actions have been in serious violation of its requirements, the
Assembly may even be justified in extending the period of deprivation beyond the time of the rectification of
the situation — but such cases, by their nature, are very rare.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 21, 1976, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 209
When a believer is deprived of his administrative rights he is entitled to clear information on the
requirements to be fulfilled in order that his rights may be restored; these may include the passage of a
prescribed period of time, the performance of certain remedial actions, or the alteration of an attitude or
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
pattern of behavior which is considered unworthy or harmful.  A condition for the restoration of voting rights
is that the believer be repentant, as evidenced by his statement to that effect or by his demeanor and conduct.
A believer should not feel compelled to admit his past errors in order to be regarded as repentant; you can
infer repentance from his behavior, his manifest spirit of cooperation with the Assembly, and his evident
desire to scrupulously adhere to the teachings.  Should he display a rebellious or resentful attitude, or be
contemptuous of Bahá’í law and the consequence of violation of its provisions, you would be justified in
denying him the right to reenter the Bahá’í community.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 9, 1991, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The Assembly or its representative(s) should meet with the believer in person to evaluate the sincerity of his
or her remorse. Expression of repentance should not be accepted solely in the form of a letter, as it is
possible that a letter may be composed by a third party and merely signed by a believer.
BEHAVIORS SUBJECT TO ADMINISTRATIVE SANCTIONS
As you no doubt know, deprivation of administrative rights is a very serious sanction, and the beloved
Guardian repeatedly cautioned that it should be exercised only in extreme situations. In a letter written on
behalf of the Universal House of Justice to another National Spiritual Assembly which asked similar
questions, it was pointed out that it was the task of the institutions to provide both counsel and education for
the believers, and thereafter it is for the individual Bahá’í to determine his course of conduct in relation to the
situations of his daily life.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated March 23, 1983, in Lights of Guidance, no. 206
Non-observance of certain laws and ordinances may incur some form of sanction. While some violations incur
punishment for a single offense, other punishments are incurred only if, after repeated warnings, the believer
fails to remedy the violation. Some examples of violations of law and standards of conduct which may subject
a Bahá’í to sanctions include:
•
Degrees of sexual immorality, including:
•
Cohabitation
•
Flagrantly immoral behavior, whether heterosexual or homosexual
•
Certain addictive behaviors, including:
•
Drinking of alcohol
•
Use of illegal drugs or habit-forming drugs without prescription
•
Gambling
•
Membership or activities in certain other organizations, including:
•
Political organizations
•
Other religions or religious organizations
•
Secret societies
•
Behavior which damages the reputation of the Faith or causes disunity within the Bahá'í community,
including but not limited to:
•
Dishonest or fraudulent behavior
•
Owning or managing a business that sells alcohol
•
Gossiping, backbiting, fault-finding
•
Irresponsible behavior
•
Abuse of hospitality
•
Violation of the marriage laws (discussed separately in Ch. 12 Marriage)
•
Violation of the divorce laws (discussed separately in Ch. 13 Divorce)
•
Disobedience to civil laws, such as:
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
•
Tax evasion
•
Criminal offenses, such as,
•
Domestic violence (discussed separately in Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic
Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies)
•
Dealing in illegal substances
•
Physical/sexual abuse or assault
•
Robbery
ABUSE OF HOSPITALITY
Bahá'u'lláh makes hospitality the prerogative of the host and not of the guest. Courtesy demands that an
individual should not impose himself or herself upon anyone without prior invitation or seek to take more than
is offered, either of time or of resources.
Flagrant abuses of hospitality, particularly if they are repetitive patterns of behavior, should be reported to the
National Spiritual Assembly.
USE OF ALCOHOL
The Assemblies must be wise and gentle in dealing with such cases (i.e., Bahá’ís using alcoholic beverages),
but at the same time must not tolerate a prolonged and flagrant disregard of the Bahá’í Teachings as regards
alcohol.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated June 26, 1956, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. II, no. 1805
As to those believers who continue to drink, they should be lovingly exhorted, then firmly warned and
eventually deprived of their voting rights. The number of times a person is exhorted and warned is a matter
left to the discretion of each Local Spiritual Assembly, in consultation with the National Spiritual Assembly.
The policy you adopt should not be one of removing the administrative rights of the believers in a
bureaucratic and automatic way, as this would be unwise and unjust. Your Assembly as well as all Local
Spiritual Assemblies should courageously and continuously remind the friends of their obligation in this
respect, handle firmly all flagrant cases, and use such cases, in a way that by force of example, they exert their
influence upon the other believers. It must be made clear to the Local Assemblies that they should be willing
to cooperate with the believers affected by such drinking habits, when any such believer promises gradually
and systematically to reduce his drinking with the objective in mind of entirely abandoning this habit.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 12, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1179
Owning or Managing a Business Selling Alcohol
Alcohol must not be served in a restaurant or other business which is wholly owned by Bahá’ís.
Guidelines prepared by the Universal House of Justice, attached to a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated
January 31, 1982, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1177
Institutions that are entirely managed by Bahá’ís are, for reasons that are only too obvious, under the
obligation of enforcing all the laws and ordinances of the Faith, especially those whose observance constitutes
a matter of conscience. There is no reason, no justification whatsoever, that they should act otherwise ...
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 2, 1935, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Principles of Bahá'í
Administration, p. 84
Concerning the third question (sale of alcoholic drinks at Bahá’í-owned premises and restaurants), the
beloved Guardian has asked me to point out that this practice is highly improper and reprehensible and would
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
be tantamount to encouraging acts that are forbidden in the Faith. It is indeed the conscientious duty of every
true Bahá’í to abandon such practices. However, should a Bahá’í owner rent his property without himself
taking any part whatever in the business, or giving aid to the tenant, then he would incur no responsibility.
Nevertheless the landlord should resort to every possible means to rid his premises of the defilement of this
degrading business; how far more injurious if he himself were engaged in such repugnant affairs.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated November 6, 1935, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II, no. 1794
[A]s to the consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises of a Bahá’í-owned restaurant…  There is no
objection if patrons bring their own alcoholic beverages and consume them on the premises, as long as there
have been no signs posted, invitations extended, or advertising suggesting that they may do so.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated June 6, 2011, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Concerning the sale of alcohol by a believer, as you state, “Obviously he should cease to deal in the sale of
alcohol in his shop.” However, as he is a new believer and was engaged in this business before becoming a
Bahá’í, he should be given a reasonable opportunity to find another means whereby he can earn a living and
should be given every assistance by the National Spiritual Assembly to do so. He should be treated with
patience and understanding, especially if he is making efforts to dispose of this business and to seek other
employment. However, if after a reasonable time has elapsed and no effort has been made to comply with the
Bahá’í law, then, as a last resort, the Assembly would have no alternative but to suspend his administrative
rights.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 13, 1974, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. II, no. 1812
We have found no explicit text or instruction of the beloved Guardian on such a situation (the sale of
alcoholic beverages by a business in which a Bahá’í is a partner with non-Bahá’ís) and feel that it is one in
which no hard and fast rules should be drawn at the present time. ... We feel that this is a matter which needs
to be decided in each case in the light of the spirit of the teachings and the circumstances of the case, and
unless the situation is one which is endangering the good name of the Faith or is obviously a ruse on the part
of the believer to evade the Bahá’í law, it should be left to the conscience of the believer concerned who
should, of course, be informed of the Bahá’í teachings concerning alcohol and should make every effort to
dissociate himself from such an activity.
The above [paragraph] concerns Bahá’ís who are already in partnerships dealing in such matters. It is,
however, obvious that a Bahá’í who is not in such a situation should not enter into it.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 15, 1976, to the International Teaching Center, enclosed with a letter written
on its behalf, dated February 8, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II, no. 1815
You will note in the enclosed quotations a reference to a Bahá’í’s being in partnership with non-Bahá’ís, and
the instruction that each such case should be judged on its own merits. The House of Justice instructs us to
state here that in the partnership of Mr. ... , Mrs. ... , Mr. ... , and Mr. ... , the fact that Mrs. ... is not a Bahá’í is
no justification for the majority of the partners, who are Bahá’ís, permitting the service of alcohol in their
restaurant.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 8, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Business Ventures — Business Practices Should Be Consistent with Teachings — Ch. 14
Serving Alcohol
In response to questions raised on the permissibility of serving alcoholic drinks in a number of different
circumstances, the Universal House of Justice has formulated the following guidelines.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
The fact that Bahá’ís themselves must not drink alcohol is abundantly clear and needs no comment here.
With regard to the serving of alcohol to non-Bahá’ís:
1.
No Bahá’í institution should serve alcohol to non-Bahá’ís under any circumstances.
2.
If an individual Bahá’í is entertaining an individual guest or a small group of guests as an official
representative of the Bahá’í community, he should not serve alcohol in his own home, but must use
his discretion whether or not to do so if the entertaining is taking place in a restaurant.
3.
No Bahá’í should serve alcohol at any function or reception given by him, such as a wedding
reception or a party to which a number of people are invited.
4.
When a Bahá’í is privately entertaining an individual non-Bahá’í or a small group of guests in his
own home, he must himself judge whether or not to serve alcohol. This will depend to a great degree
on the customs of the country in which he is living, the individuals concerned, and the host’s
relationship to his guests. Obviously it is better for the Bahá’í not to serve alcohol if possible, but
against this he must weigh the probable reaction of the guest in the circumstances which prevail and
in the particular situation. In some countries there would be no problem in failing to provide alcohol
to a guest; in others it would be regarded as extremely peculiar and anti-social and would
immediately raise a barrier to further contact. It is not desirable to make a major issue of the matter.
5.
When such private entertaining of an individual or small group of non-Bahá’ís is taking place in a
restaurant the same general principles as in point 4 above apply, except that in such a public place a
failure to provide alcoholic drinks would be less easily understood than in a private home, and the
Bahá’í must use his discretion accordingly.
6.
Alcohol must not be served in a restaurant or other business which is wholly owned by Bahá’ís.
7.
If a Bahá’í is employed by others in a job which involves the serving of alcohol, he is not obliged to
change the employment. This is a matter left to each individual to decide in the light of his own
conscience. Obviously such kinds of employment vary widely from bartending to serving in a grocery
in which wine is retailed. If the job requires a great deal of involvement with the serving of alcohol it
is better for the Bahá’í to obtain other employment if he can.
Guidelines from the Universal House of Justice, “The Serving of Alcohol Drinks by Bahá'ís and Bahá'í Institutions”, dated January 31,
1982, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1177
Such employments (Bahá’ís who are in the employment of non-Bahá’ís and whose employment involves the
serving or selling of alcoholic beverages) cover a very wide range of degree in involvement, therefore it is left
to the individual to decide whether or not he feels his employment violates the spirit of the Bahá’í law. In
cases of doubt he can, of course, consult his Spiritual Assembly for advice.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 15, 1976, enclosed with a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of
Justice, dated February 8, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II, no. 1815
BACKBITING AND GOSSIPING
As regards backbiting, i.e., discussing the faults of others in their absence, the teachings are very emphatic.
In a Tablet to an American friend the Master wrote: “The worst human quality and the most great sin is
backbiting, more especially when it emanates from the tongues of the believers of God. If some means were
devised so that the doors of backbiting were shut eternally and each one of the believers unsealed his lips in
praise of others, then the teachings of His Holiness Bahá'u'lláh would spread, the hearts be illumined, the
spirits glorified, and the human world would attain to everlasting felicity.” (Quoted in Star of West, vol. IV. p.
192) Bahá'u'lláh says in Hidden Words: “Breathe not the sins of others so long as thou art a sinner. Shouldst
thou transgress this command ACCURSED ART THOU.” The condemnation of backbiting could hardly be
couched in stronger language than in these passages, and it is obviously one of the foremost obligations for
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
Bahá’ís to set their faces against this practice. Even if what is said against another person be true, the
mentioning of his faults to others still comes under the category of backbiting, and is forbidden.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated February 11, 1925, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 305
The environment sought is, at the most fundamental level, one of love and support, in which the believers, all
endeavouring to achieve the Bahá’í standard in their personal conduct, show patience and respect to each
other and, when needed, receive wise counsel and ready assistance.  Gossip and backbiting have no place in
the Bahá’í community; nor do judgemental attitudes and self-righteousness.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 23, 2013, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The friends should understand that they should not only cease backbiting and gossiping, but should cease
listening to others who fall into this sin. Ignoring gossip and slander is a positive, constructive and healing
action helpful to the community, the gossiper and to the persons slandered.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 21, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
As to backbiting, the House of Justice points out that learning not to concern oneself with the faults of others
seems to be one of the most difficult lessons for people to master, and that failing in this is a fertile cause of
disputes among Bahá'ís as it is among men and women in general. In “Star of the West”, Volume 8, No. 10, on
page 138, there is a record of a reply given by Άbdu'l-Bahá in a private interview in Paris in 1913. He was
asked “How shall I overcome seeing the faults of others - recognizing the wrong in others?”, and He replied:
“I will tell you. Whenever you recognize the fault of another, think of yourself! What are my imperfections? -
and try to remove them. Do this whenever you are tried through the words or deeds of others. Thus you will
grow, become more perfect. You will overcome self, you will not even have time to think of the faults of
others ... ”
You are quite correct in your understanding of the importance of avoiding backbiting; such conduct strikes at
the very unity of the Bahá’í community. In a letter written to an individual believer on behalf of the Guardian
it is stated:
If we are better, if we show love, patience, and understanding of the weakness of others, if we seek to
never criticize but rather encourage, others will do likewise, and we can really help the Cause through
our example and spiritual strength.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 13, 1980, in Lights of Guidance, no. 309
CRIMINAL OFFENSES
We have carefully reviewed your letter ... inquiring about the attitude to be adopted by your National
Assembly regarding believers who have been charged with criminal offenses, suspected to have committed
such offenses, or convicted by the court. The principle to bear in mind is that each case falling in any of the
aforementioned categories should be considered separately and on its own merits. No hard and fast rule
should be applied.
If the believer’s actions conspicuously disgrace the Faith and such actions seriously injure its reputation, the
National Assembly may in its discretion apply the sanction of deprivation of voting rights.
We feel that the Assembly should exercise its utmost wisdom when depriving believers of their administrative
privileges, each case should be considered on its individual merits, and it should be realized that the
application of Bahá’í sanctions is not an automatic action in response to a verdict of the court.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 3, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Violations of criminal law are handled by the civil courts of a country and enforced by its civil
administration. The fact that a believer has been charged with a criminal offense, or is suspected of having
committed such an offense, or is convicted by the court, should not automatically result in the application of
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
Bahá’í sanctions. Each case is to be considered on its own merits, and in light of the aforementioned
considerations pertaining to the effect on the Bahá’í community and its reputation.
When an Assembly is aware that a believer is charged with a criminal offense, normally it should not pass
judgment on the matter until a decision has been given in the courts, at which time it would consider whether
it should impose administrative sanctions. There may be cases, however, when an Assembly is justified in
taking certain actions to protect the interests of the Cause. Generally, the Assembly would regard the decision
of the court as being valid in determining whether or not the Bahá’í was guilty of the stated offense, and
would not undertake its own independent investigation. However, there may be special circumstances
associated with a particular case, or with the reputation of the civil judicial system, which would incline an
Assembly to decide that the verdict of the court should not be accepted as a basis for Bahá’í administrative
action without further investigation by the Assembly; it is left to the Assembly to make that determination.
When an allegation is made that a believer has violated Bahá’í law, irrespective of the consequence in civil
law, the process of investigation calls for a diligent and persistent effort by the Assembly to ascertain the
facts, and for wholehearted cooperation of all concerned in the search for truth. …
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to a National Spiritual Assembly, dated December 9, 1991
If a member of the Bahá’í community violates criminal law, the National Spiritual Assembly should be advised
with as much information as possible about the crime and the reason the person committed it. Depending on
the circumstances, the Local Assembly may or may not wish to recommend removal of the believer’s
administrative rights.
See also:
Removal of Administrative Rights — Recommendations to the National Spiritual Assembly — Ch. 10
Assembly Must Be Careful to Conform to Civil Law
Your Assembly should make a distinction between those actions which can be dealt with at present by the
Bahá’í administrative institutions and those which are criminal in character and fall within the purview of the
civil authorities. In general, misconduct on the part of individual Bahá’ís and differences between the friends
should be adjudicated by Spiritual Assemblies, and the friends should obey the Assemblies’ decisions.
However, in criminal matters in which the State claims a prior interest and has clearly laid down the
procedures to be followed, and the action of Assemblies would amount to interference with these procedures,
such matters must be referred to the civil authorities.
Since at the present time Bahá’í institutions are not authorized to deal with criminal matters, you should seek
the advice of legal experts in reconciling the observance of confidentiality, which is essential to the
functioning of any Spiritual Assembly, and the Assembly’s obligation to uphold Government regulations in
criminal cases.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 5, 1985, to a National Spiritual Assembly
As you know, the Bahá’í institutions do not have a responsibility to enforce the criminal laws of a nation,
although they do quite properly exhort the believers to obedience to government, which includes obedience to
its laws. … there may be special circumstances associated with a particular case, or with the reputation of the
civil judicial system, which would incline an Assembly to decide that the verdict of the court should not be
accepted as a basis for Bahá’í administrative action without further investigation by the Assembly; it is left to
the Assembly to make that determination.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 9, 1991, to a National Spiritual Assembly
If an Assembly is handling a case involving civil disobedience or criminal behavior, it must be careful not to
interfere with the established legal procedures. As civil and criminal law are subject to change, the Assembly
should seek advice concerning current legal requirements for any such case brought to its attention.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
See also:
Consultation with Others — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Communications — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Confidential Materials — Ch. 4
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
And in By-Laws of a Local Spiritual Assembly, Article IV, regarding non-interference in matters of civil jurisdiction
Abuse
Among the signs of moral downfall in the declining social order are the high incidence of violence within the
family, the increase in degrading and cruel treatment of spouses and children, and the spread of sexual abuse.
It is essential that the members of the community of the Greatest Name take the utmost care not to be drawn
into acceptance of such practices because of their prevalence. They must be ever mindful of their obligation to
exemplify a new way of life distinguished by its respect for the dignity and rights of all people, by its exalted
moral tone, and by its freedom from oppression and from all forms of abuse.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 24, 1993, to an individual believer
If an Assembly suspects or receives an allegation of abuse of any kind, regardless of whether or not it occurs
between family members, it should immediately refer to the Domestic Violence Supplement to Guidelines for
Local Spiritual Assemblies for guidance on how to proceed. While some of the guidance contained therein
may not apply to situations outside the family, much of it will still be applicable, particularly if the abuser is a
Bahá'í. If, after consulting the manual, the Assembly has further questions or is uncertain how to proceed, it
should contact the Office of Community Administration at (847) 733-3485 or via email at
community@usbnc.org.
See also:
Removal of Administrative Rights — Recommendations to the National Spiritual Assembly — Ch. 10
Dishonest or Fraudulent Behavior
Regarding Mr. ... : it was with the approval of the Guardian that his name was removed from the voting list.
It is very bad for the Cause to have a member of the Community, actively, in the public eye, teaching the
Faith, and at the same time showing dishonest characteristics. We cannot possibly say that because a person
also has many virtues, faults as grave as lying and dishonorable conduct regarding money can be overlooked!
... This does not mean there is no hope for Mr. ... ; let him change his conduct, if he really loves the Cause,
and then a way will be opened for him to again be active. But the change must be real and obvious; mere
protestations will serve no purpose.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated November 23, 1949, in Arohanui: Letters from Shoghi Effendi to New Zealand, p. 52
See also:
Disputes — Ch. 14
Robbery, Theft
Some have regarded it as lawful to infringe on the integrity of the substance of their neighbor, and have made
light of the injunction of God as prescribed in His Book. Evil fall upon them, and the chastisement of God,
the All-Powerful, the Almighty, afflict them! By Him Who shineth above the Day Spring of sanctity! If the
whole earth were to be converted into silver and gold, no man who can be said to have truly ascended into the
heaven of faith and certitude would deign to regard it, much less to seize and keep it. We have formerly
referred to this subject in passages revealed in the Arabic tongue, in a language of exquisite beauty. God is
Our witness! Whoever hath tasted the sweetness of those words will never consent to transgress the bounds
which God hath fixed, neither will he turn his gaze towards any one except his Well-Beloved. Such a man
will, with his inner eye, readily recognize how altogether vain and fleeting are the things of this world, and
will set his affections on things above.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
Say: Be ashamed, O ye that call yourselves the lovers of the Ancient Beauty! Be ye admonished by the
tribulation He hath suffered, by the burden of anguish He hath carried for the sake of God. Let your eyes be
opened. To what purpose hath He labored, if the manifold trials He hath endured are, in the end, to result in
such contemptible professions, and such wretched conduct? Every robber, every worker of iniquity, hath, in
the days prior to My Revelation, uttered these same words, and performed these same deeds.
Verily I say: Incline your ears to My sweet voice, and sanctify yourselves from the defilement of your evil
passions and corrupt desires. They who dwell within the tabernacle of God, and are established upon the seats
of everlasting glory, will refuse, though they be dying of hunger, to stretch their hands and seize unlawfully
the property of their neighbor, however vile and worthless he may be.
Bahá'u'lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, no. CXXXVII
Self-Defense
We have reviewed your letter of April 11th, asking about the teachings of the Faith on self-defense and any
guidance on individual conduct in the face of increasing civil disorder in North American cities.
From the texts you already have available it is clear that Bahá'u'lláh has stated that it is preferable to be killed
in the path of God's service than to kill, and that organized religious attack against Bahá'ís should never turn
into any kind of warfare, as this is strictly prohibited in our Writings.
A hitherto untranslated Tablet from Άbdu'l-Bahá, however, points out that in the case of attack by robbers and
highwaymen, a Bahá'í should not surrender himself, but should try, as far as circumstances permit, to defend
himself, and later on lodge a complaint with the government authorities. In a letter written on behalf of the
Guardian, he also indicates that in an emergency when there is no legal force at hand to appeal to, a Bahá'í is
justified in defending his life. In another letter the Guardian has further pointed out that the assault of an
irresponsible assailant upon a Bahá'í should be resisted by the Bahá'í, who would be justified, under such
circumstances, in protecting his life.
The House of Justice does not wish at the present time to go beyond the guidelines given in the above-
mentioned statements. The question is basically a matter of conscience, and in each case the Bahá'í involved
must use his judgment in determining when to stop in self-defense lest his action deteriorate into retaliation.
Of course the above principles apply also in cases when a Bahá'í finds himself involved in situations of civil
disorder. We have, however, advised the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States that under the
present circumstances in that country it is preferable that Bahá'ís do not buy nor own arms for their protection
or the protection of their families.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 26, 1969, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1963–1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, p. 148
See also:
In Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies — Role of Individuals — Defend Self and Protect Others from Harm
Orders of Protection
If one believer has taken legal action by obtaining an order of protection to prevent another believer from
having contact with him or her, guidance should be sought from the Office of Community Administration at the
Bahá'í National Center about how that action would affect the participation of both parties in various Bahá'í
activities.
DRUGS
Regarding hashish ... Gracious God! This is the worst of all intoxicants, and its prohibition is explicitly
revealed. Its use causeth the disintegration of thought and the complete torpor of the soul. How could anyone
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
seek this fruit of the infernal tree, and by partaking of it, be led to exemplify the qualities of a monster? How
could one use this forbidden drug, and thus deprive himself of the blessings of the All-Merciful? ...
Alcohol consumeth the mind and causeth man to commit acts of absurdity, but ... this wicked hashish
extinguisheth the mind, freezeth the spirit, petrifieth the soul, wasteth the body and leaveth man frustrated and
lost.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, from a tablet translated from the Persian, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 142
Concerning the so-called “spiritual” virtues of the hallucinogens ... spiritual stimulation should come from
turning one’s heart to Bahá’u’lláh and not through physical means such as drugs and agents.
... hallucinogenic agents are a form of intoxicant. As the friends, including the youth, are required to strictly
abstain from all forms of intoxicants, and are further expected conscientiously to obey the civil law of their
country, it is obvious that they should refrain from using these drugs.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated April 15, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1183
In reply to your letter of March 23, 1976, the Universal House of Justice instructs us to say that the word
“marijuana” does not appear as such in our Sacred Scriptures. However, marijuana contains the same narcotic
as hashish (hemp) and the same prohibition applies to its use as applies to the use of hashish.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 3, 1976, to an individual believer
See also:
Disruptive Behaviors — Ch. 14
FAULT-FINDING
O EMIGRANTS! The tongue I have designed for the mention of Me, defile it not with detraction. If the fire
of self overcome you, remember your own faults and not the faults of My creatures, inasmuch as every one of
you knoweth his own self better than he knoweth others.
Bahá’u’lláh, The Hidden Words, Persian # 66
One of the first essentials insisted on by Bahá'u'lláh and Άbdu'l-Bahá is that we resist the natural tendency to
let our attention dwell on the faults and failings of others rather than on our own.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated May 12, 1925, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II,
no. 1272
Each of us is responsible for one life only, and that is our own. Each of us is immeasurably far from being
“perfect as our heavenly father is perfect” and the task of perfecting our own life and character is one that
requires all our attention, our will-power and energy. If we allow our attention and energy to be taken up in
efforts to keep others right and remedy their faults, we are wasting precious time. We are like ploughmen each
of whom has his team to manage and his plough to direct, and in order to keep his furrow straight he must
keep his eye on his goal and concentrate on his own task. If he looks to this side and that to see how Tom and
Harry are getting on and to criticize their ploughing, then his own furrow will assuredly become crooked.
On no subject are the Bahá’í teachings more emphatic than on the necessity to abstain from faultfinding and
backbiting while being ever eager to discover and root out our own faults and overcome our own failings.
If we profess loyalty to Bahá'u'lláh, to our Beloved Master and our dear Guardian, then we must show our
love by obedience to these explicit teachings. Deeds not words are what they demand, and no amount of
fervour in the use of expressions of loyalty and adulation will compensate for failure to live in the spirit of the
teachings.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated May 12, 1925, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II,
no. 1272
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
GAMBLING, LOTTERIES, BETTING
Gambling and the use of opium have been forbidden unto you. Eschew them both, O people, and be not of
those who transgress.
Bahá'u'lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, par. 155
Although we have not found any text which forbids the owning of race horses, horse racing as a means of
winning the prize money and betting at race courses, we quote the translation of a Tablet of Άbdu'l-Bahá on
horse racing:
Betting on horse racing is a pernicious disease. It hath been seen in Europe what distress this hath caused.
Thousands have become afflicted and distraught. The friends of God must engage in work which is lawful and
attracteth blessings, so that God’s aid and bounty may always surround them. (Translated from the Persian)
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated June 20, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1202
No reference to the activities that are included in the prohibition on gambling has been found in the Writings
of Baha’u’llah, and it has been left to the Universal House of Justice to specify the details of this prohibition.
Certain practices, such as casino gambling, clearly fall within it.  Whether participation in lotteries and bingo
and betting on horse races, football games, and the like are to be included will be considered in due course.  In
the meantime, Assemblies and individuals are counselled not to make an issue of such matters and to leave it
to the conscience of the believers to decide in each case.
It would not be appropriate, however for money to be raised for the Fund through lotteries, raffles or games of
chance.
From a response of the Universal House of Justice, dated November 25, 2007,  in a letter to an individual believer dated February 9,
2014 from the Office of Correspondence at the Bahá’í World Center, to an individual believer
IRRESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOR
Limited sanctions (i.e., restrictions on one’s eligibility to serve on institutions or participate in community
events) are usually imposed in cases where the individual disrupts the unity of the community, or is mentally
unfit and unable to exercise judgment or behave responsibly. The Universal House of Justice has clearly
indicated that a National Spiritual Assembly may debar an individual from serving on a Local Spiritual
Assembly without removing his administrative rights.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 31, 1972
See also:
Special Issues — Persons Who Are Mentally and/or Emotionally Impaired — Ch. 2
Medical Matters — Diminished Mental Capacity — Ch. 14
Disruptive Behaviors — Ch. 14
MEMBERSHIP IN CERTAIN ORGANIZATIONS
Formal affiliation with and acceptance of membership in organizations whose programs or policies are not
wholly reconcilable with the Teachings is not permissible to the friends …
Your Assembly is advised to carefully inform the friends of these principles and to deepen them in their
understanding and appreciation of them. Having made certain that all friends, especially those directly
concerned, have been so deepened, your Assembly should then set a time limit by which the friends must
obey your directive to withdraw their membership in the organization. Each case will have to be considered
on its own merits. Some of the friends may have to fulfill certain commitments as officers before they can
withdraw with honor. The time limit should make allowances in such cases.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
Whereas persistence in membership in these and in similar organizations is ample ground for deprivation of
voting rights, your Assembly is advised to give sufficient time for each of the friends to be thoroughly
deepened, and to comply with the principles before any disciplinary action is taken.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 26, 1963, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 192
See also:
Other Enrollment Considerations — Membership in Secret Organizations, Other Religious Organizations, or Political
Involvement — Ch. 5
Membership in Other Organizations — Ch. 14
Holding Office in Certain Non-Bahá'í Organizations
The Alaska Public Employees Association appears to be a type of union organization. As long as this and
other associations, such as the special interest groups you mention, are not affiliated with any political party
and are not involved in political activities there is no objection to Bahá'ís belonging to them nor to their
holding office in them.
As for participation in elections of non-Bahá'í organizations which are open to Bahá'ís but which employ
electional methods different from Bahá'í practices, believers need not avoid the election procedures carried
out in such organizations.
In all such activities the friends should bear in mind the following exhortation so clearly set forth by the
beloved Guardian in a letter dated February 20, 1927 to the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States
and Canada:
Fully aware of the repeated statements of Άbdu'l-Bahá that universality is of God, Bahá'ís in every land
are ready, nay anxious, to associate themselves by word and deed with any association of men which,
after careful scrutiny, they feel satisfied is free from every tinge of partisanship and politics and is wholly
devoted to the interests of all mankind. ... They should always bear in mind, however, the dominating
purpose of such collaboration, which is to secure in time the recognition by those with whom they are
associating of the paramount necessity and the true significance of the Bahá'í Revelation in this day.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 4, 1979, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1403
See also:
Membership in Other Organizations — Ch. 14
Political Parties
[T]hat which is conducive to association and attraction and unity among the sons of men is the means of the
life of the world of humanity, and whatever causeth division, repulsion and remoteness leadeth to the death of
humankind.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, p. 290
The beloved Guardian repeatedly emphasized the principle of refusing to join any political party. In “The
Advent of Divine Justice”, in speaking of the rectitude of conduct which must manifest itself in the Bahá'í
community, he said: It must characterize the attitude of every loyal believer towards non-acceptance of
political posts, non-identification with political parties, non-participation in political controversies, and non-
membership in political organizations ...
Summary of Instructions of the Universal House of Justice attached to a letter, dated December 28, 1973, to a National Spiritual
Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1445
The conviction of the Bahá’í community that humanity,  having passed through earlier stages of social
evolution, stands at the threshold of its collective maturity; its belief that the principle of the oneness of
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
humankind, the hallmark of the age of maturity, implies a change in the very structure of society; its
dedication to a learning process that, animated by this principle, explores the workings of a new set of
relationships among the individual, the community and the institutions of society, the three protagonists in the
advancement of civilization; its confidence that a revised conception of power, freed from the notion of
dominance with the accompanying ideas of contest, contention, division and superiority, underlies the desired
set of relationships; its commitment to a vision of a world that, benefitting from humanity’s rich cultural
diversity, abides no lines of separation—these all constitute essential elements of the framework that shapes
the Bahá’í approach to politics ….
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 2, 2013, to the Bahá’ís of Iran
Bahá’ís do not seek political power.  They will not accept political posts in their respective governments,
whatever the particular system in place, though they will take up positions which they deem to be purely
administrative in nature. They will not affiliate themselves with political parties, become entangled in partisan
issues, or participate in programmes tied to the divisive agendas of any group or faction. At the same time,
Bahá’ís respect those who, out of a sincere desire to serve their countries, choose to pursue political
aspirations or to engage in political activity. The approach adopted by the Bahá’í community of non-
involvement in such activity is not intended as a statement expressing some fundamental objection to politics
in its true sense; indeed, humanity organizes itself through its political affairs. Bahá’ís vote in civil elections,
as long as they do not have to identify themselves with any party in order to do so.
Letter of the Universal House of Justice, dated March 2, 2013, to the Bahá’ís of Iran
In this connection, they view government as a system for maintaining the welfare and orderly progress of a
society, and they undertake, one and all, to observe the laws of the land in which they reside, without allowing
their inner religious beliefs to be violated. Bahá’ís will not be party to any instigation to overthrow a
government. Nor will they interfere in political relations between the governments of different nations. This
does not mean that they are naive about political processes in the world today and make no distinction
between just and tyrannical rule. The rulers of the earth have sacred obligations to fulfil towards their people,
who should be seen as the most precious treasure of any nation. Wherever they reside, Bahá’ís endeavour to
uphold the standard of justice, addressing inequities directed towards themselves or towards others, but only
through lawful means available to them, eschewing all forms of violent protest. Moreover, in no way does the
love they hold in their hearts for humanity run counter to the sense of duty they feel to expend their energies
in service to their respective countries.
The approach, or strategy if you will, with the simple set of parameters outlined in the foregoing paragraph
enables the community, in a world where nations and tribes are pitted one against the other and people are
divided and separated by social structures, to maintain its cohesion and integrity as a global entity and to
ensure that the activities of the Bahá’ís in one country do not jeopardize the existence of those elsewhere.
Guarded against competing interests of nations and political parties, the Bahá’í community is thus able to
build its capacity to contribute to processes that promote peace and unity.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 2, 2013, to the Bahá’ís of Iran
But if a certain person does enter into party politics and labors for the ascendancy of one party over another,
and continues to do it against expressed appeals and warnings of the Assembly, then the Assembly has the
right to refuse him the right to vote in Bahá’í elections.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 16, 1933, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Principles of Bahá’í
Administration, p. 30
See also:
Other Enrollment Considerations — Membership in Secret Organizations, Other Religious Organizations, or Political
Involvement — Ch. 5
Membership in Other Organizations — Ch. 14
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
Religious Organizations
Consort with the followers of all religions in a spirit of friendliness and fellowship. "Whatsoever hath led the
children of men to shun one another, and hath caused dissensions and divisions amongst them, hath, through
the revelation of these words, been nullified and abolished.
Bahá’u’lláh, Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh Revealed After the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Lawh-i-Dunyá par. 13
[T]o remain a member of the church is not proper for us, for we do so under false pretense. We should
therefore withdraw from our churches but continue to associate, if we wish to, with the church members and
ministers.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated June 24, 1947, to a local Bahá’í community, in Principles of Bahá’í Administration,
p. 30
Concerning membership in non-Bahá’í religious associations, the Guardian wishes to re-emphasize the
general principle already laid down in his communications to your Assembly and also to the individual
believers that no Bahá’í who wishes to be a wholehearted and sincere upholder of the distinguishing
principles of the Cause can accept full membership in any non-Bahá’í ecclesiastical organization. For such an
act would necessarily imply only a partial acceptance of the Teachings and laws of the Faith, and an
incomplete recognition of its independent status, and would thus be tantamount to an act of disloyalty to the
verities it enshrines. For it is only too obvious that in most of its fundamental assumptions the Cause of
Bahá’u’lláh is completely at variance with outworn creeds, ceremonies and institutions. To be a Bahá’í and at
the same time accept membership in another religious body is simply an act of contradiction that no sincere
and logically minded person can possibly accept. To follow Bahá’u’lláh does not mean accepting some of His
teachings and rejecting the rest.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated June 15, 1935, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1396
See also:
Other Enrollment Considerations — Membership in Secret Organizations, Other Religions, or Political Involvement —
Ch. 5
Membership in Other Organizations — Ch. 14
Secret Societies
The following two principles should help to guide your Assembly in dealing with the problems of Bahá’í
membership in Masonic, Theosophical, Rosicrucian, and similar societies:
1.
Formal affiliation with and acceptance of membership in organizations whose programs or policies
are not wholly reconcilable with the Teachings is not permissible to the friends.
2.
The friends should not become members of secret societies.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 26, 1963, to a National Spiritual Assembly
[A]ll the Bahá'ís everywhere have been urged to give up their old affiliations and withdraw from
membership in the Masonic and other secret Societies in order to be entirely free to serve the Faith of
Bahá'u'lláh as a united Body. Such groups as Masonry, however high the local standard may be, are in other
countries gradually being influenced by the issues sundering the nations at present.
The Guardian wants the Bahá'ís to disentangle themselves from anything that may in any way, now or in the
future, compromise their independent status as Bahá'ís and the supra-national nature of their Faith.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated February 17, 1956, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1388
See also:
Other Enrollment Considerations — Membership in Secret Organizations, Other Religions, or Political Involvement —
Ch. 5
Membership in Other Organizations — Ch. 14
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
SEXUAL IMMORALITY
As you readily understand, Bahá'ís are exhorted to lead a chaste and holy life, and, according to Bahá'í Law,
sexual intercourse is permissible only between a man and the woman who is his wife. In sexual morality, as in
other realms of behaviour, people often stumble and fall short of the ideal. It is the task of Spiritual
Assemblies to ensure that the friends are deepened in their understanding of the teachings, and are exhorted to
apply them in their lives. In caring for its community, a Spiritual Assembly should act as a loving father rather
than as a stern judge in such matters. Nevertheless, if a believer's behaviour is blatantly and flagrantly
immoral and, therefore, is harmful to the good name of the Faith, the Assembly must counsel him (or her),
urge him to reform his conduct, warn him of the consequences if he does not mend his ways and, ultimately, if
the believer persists in misbehaviour, the Assembly must deprive him of his administrative rights. This
deprivation remains in force until such time that he has rectified his behaviour.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 5, 1986, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1218
In addition to educating the believers about the high standards of morality in the Faith, the Assembly is
responsible for counseling and admonishing those who have violated Bahá'í standards to correct their
behavior. The Assembly should take care to document its interactions with believers on an incident-by-
incident basis in cases of violation, so that it will have a record of them if it later needs to submit a
recommendation to the National Assembly.
See also:
Consultation with Others — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Confidential Materials — Ch. 4
Other Enrollment Considerations — Persons Whose Behavior is Contrary to Bahá’í Law — Ch. 5
Nature, Purpose and Effect of Bahá'í Laws — Ch. 10
Obedience to Laws — Ch. 10
Specific Kinds of Immorality
Adultery
Ye are forbidden to commit adultery, sodomy and lechery. Avoid them, O concourse of the faithful. By the
righteousness of God! Ye have been called into being to purge the world from the defilement of evil passions.
This is what the Lord of all mankind hath enjoined upon you, could ye but perceive it. He who relateth
himself to the All-Merciful and committeth satanic deeds, verily he is not of Me. Unto this beareth witness
every atom, pebble, tree and fruit, and beyond them this ever-proclaiming, truthful and trustworthy Tongue.
Bahá'u'lláh, translated from an Arabic Tablet, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 148
Homosexual Behavior
As you know, according to the Bahá’í Teachings, marriage is a union between a man and a woman, and
sexual relations are only permissible between a couple who are married to each other. This is set forth in the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh and in the authoritative statements of Abdu’l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi and is not
susceptible to change by the House of Justice. These Teachings are only applicable to Bahá’ís, however, so if
those involved are not Bahá’ís there is no reason to expect them to obey the Bahá’í law in this respect. The
Bahá’í community does not seek to impose its values on others and does not pass judgement on others on the
basis of its own moral standards. Rather, Bahá’u’lláh enjoins the believers to manifest tolerance and respect
towards all, and therefore, to regard those with a homosexual orientation with prejudice or disdain would be
entirely against the spirit of the Faith.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
Since the circumstances of same-sex marriages in the wider society differ from case to case for all concerned,
it is left to the judgement of the individual Bahá’í to decide whether or not to attend.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 14, 2013, to an individual believer
Homosexuality, according to the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, is spiritually condemned. This does not mean that
people so afflicted must not be helped and advised and sympathized with. It does mean that we do not believe
that it is a permissible way of life; which, alas, is all too often the accepted attitude nowadays.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated May 21, 1954, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1221
Homosexuality is forbidden in the Bahá’í Faith by Bahá’u’lláh; so, for that matter, are immorality and
adultery.
From a letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated August 20, 1955, to a National Spiritual Assembly
While Bahá’ís hold specific beliefs about human identity, sexuality, personal morality, and individual and
social transformation, they also believe that individuals must be free to investigate truth and should not be
coerced. They are, therefore, enjoined to be tolerant of those whose views differ from their own, not to judge
others according to their own standards, and not to attempt to impose these standards on society. To regard a
person who has a homosexual orientation with prejudice or disdain is entirely against the spirit of the Faith.
And where occasion demands, it would be appropriate to speak out or against unjust or oppressive measures
directed towards homosexuals.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 9, 2014, to an individual believer
With respect to the causes of homosexuality, this appears to be a complex question and further inquiry will
no doubt be conducted by scientists in future. While there are passages from letters written on behalf of
Shoghi Effendi suggesting that individuals might benefit from medical counsel when dealing with aspects of
the challenge they face, the perspective of the medical community on homosexuality, which has changed
significantly over the years, is one that only it can determine. The House of Justice does not wish to comment
on the merits of particular forms of intervention, some of which are quite controversial. It is left to the
individual to determine whether a medical approach or counseling will be of assistance.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 12, 2012, to an individual believer
The contemporary discussion surrounding homosexuality, which began in the West and is increasingly
promoted in other parts of the world, generally takes the form of a false dichotomy, which compels one to
choose between a position that is either affirming or rejecting. It is understandable that Bahá’ís would be
sensitive to acts of prejudice or oppression in any form and to the needs of those who suffer as a result. But to
align with either side in the public debate is to accept the premises on which it is based. Moreover, this debate
occurs within the context of a rising tide of materialism and consequent reorientation of society, over more
than a century, which has among its outcomes a destructive emphasis on sexuality. Various philosophies and
theories have eroded precepts of right and wrong that govern personal behavior. For some, relativism reigns
and individuals are to determine their own moral preferences; others dismiss the very conception of personal
morality, maintaining that any standard that restrains what is considered a natural impulse is harmful to the
individual and ultimately to society. Self- indulgence, in the guise of expressing one's true nature, becomes
the norm, even the touchstone of healthy living. Consequently, sexuality has become a preoccupation,
pervading commerce, media, the arts, and popular culture, influencing disciplines such as medicine,
psychology, and education and reducing the human being to an object. It is no longer merely a part of life, but
becomes the defining element of a person's identity. At its most extreme, the doctrine aggressively propagated
in some societies is that it is abnormal for adolescents to restrain their sexual impulses, unreasonable for
young adults to marry without first having had sexual relations, and impossible for a married couple to remain
monogamous. The unbounded expression of sexuality in almost any form is thought to be natural and is
accepted as a matter of course, the only limitation being to cause no harm to others, while any notion to the
contrary is deemed narrow-minded or retrogressive. The question of same-sex marriage arises not simply as
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
an appeal for fairness within a framework of existing values but as another step, presumed to be inevitable, in
clearing away the vestiges of what is regarded to be a repressive traditional morality.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 9, 2014, to an individual believer
Bahá’ís must also be on their guard lest condemnatory attitudes stemming from the public debate take root in
their communities. Backbiting and gossip, prejudice and estrangement, have no place. All recognize the need
to transform themselves in accordance with Bahá’u’lláh’s Teachings, all struggle in different ways to live a
Bahá’í life, and there is no reason that the challenge of being attracted to persons of the same sex should be
singled out and treated differently from other challenges. The Guardian made it clear that Bahá’ís with a
homosexual orientation should not withdraw from the community and should receive its support and
encouragement. The House of Justice sympathizes deeply with those individuals, and their families, who
strive in this respect to understand and hold fast to the Teachings while buffeted by the controversy
unfolding within their societies.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 9, 2014, to an individual believer
No matter how devoted and fine the love may be between people of the same sex, to let it find expression in
sexual acts is wrong. Immorality of every sort is really forbidden by Bahá’u’lláh, and homosexual
relationships He looks upon as such, besides being against nature.
To be afflicted in this way is a great burden upon a conscientious soul.
But through the advice and help of doctors, through a strong and determined effort, and through prayer, a soul
can overcome this handicap.
God judges each soul on its own merits. The Guardian cannot tell you what the attitude of God would be
towards a person who lives a good life in most ways, but not in this way. All he can tell you is that it is
forbidden by Bahá’u’lláh, and that one so afflicted should struggle and struggle again to overcome it. We must
be hopeful of God’s mercy but not impose upon it.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 26, 1950, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1223
Pregnancy or Birth out of Wedlock
Generally, administrative rights should not be suspended because of the birth of a child out of wedlock. The
questions to be considered are whether the party is guilty of blatant and flagrant immorality, whether such
conduct is harming the Faith, and whether the believer has refused or neglected to improve her conduct
despite repeated warnings.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated March 23, 1983, in Lights of Guidance, no. 206
When there is an isolated but serious offense, such as that of a Bahá’í woman who indulges in one act of
immorality as a result of which she gives birth to a child out of wedlock, this is no grounds for the removal of
administrative rights.  But the Assembly, when it learns of the situation, should certainly arrange for the
believer to be met and consulted with, to assist her in her difficulties, to ascertain her attitude to the situation.
If she has no regret for the offense and indicates that she feels free to repeat it in the future, she will need to be
educated in the teachings, counseled and, if she does not change her attitude, to be warned that a continuation
of such activities would cause forfeiture of her administrative rights.  If, however, she is contrite and is
determined to lead a moral life henceforth, there would be no question of sanctions.  The same course would
be followed with the man involved, if he were a Baha’i.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 9, 1991, to a National Spiritual Assembly
If the situation involves a girl below the legal age of consent, which varies by state, and the male is older,
there may be criminal considerations involved over which the Local Assembly has no authority. Should the
pregnancy be the consequence of rape or incest, the Assembly should refer promptly to Guidelines for
Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies with
special attention to its provisions on safety and confidentiality.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
See also:
Criminal Offenses — Ch. 10
Adoption — Ch. 14
Medical Matters — Abortion Forbidden Except in Certain Cases — Ch. 14
And in Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies, Special Considerations — Rape Victims Entitled to Loving Support
Flagrantly Immoral Behavior
As regards flagrant immorality, this is a matter which has to be dealt with through exhortations and warnings,
like the problem of drinking, and when there is complete and insistent disregard of these reminders, then
sanctions will have to be imposed, but restored upon rectification of the mistake and a sincere expression of
repentance.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 12, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
[A]lthough all immorality is condemned in the Teachings, it is only flagrant immorality that is now
sanctionable. You should not pry into people's affairs, and only in cases of flagrant immorality should you
consider imposing sanctions, and then only after you have patiently explained to the believers concerned the
Bahá’í laws involved and given them ample time to comply. Particularly in the application of these laws to
indigenous people should you be patient and forbearing. The emphasis should be on education rather than on
rigid enforcement of the law immediately.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated June 23, 1969, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1279
We feel that each and every case should be reviewed on its own merits. In some cases it is clear that there is
no alternative to the removal of voting rights as in the case of marriage without the consent of parents. In
other cases, such as those involving flagrant immorality, the removal of voting rights should be resorted to
only in rare cases. If the acts of immorality are not generally known and are discoverable only on
investigation, a serious question is raised as to whether this immorality is “flagrant”.
We realize that a great problem is presented by gossip when it occurs in Bahá’í communities, and the poison it
can instill into the relationship between the friends. However, deprivation of voting rights is usually of little
help in such circumstances and should be resorted to only after other remedies have been tried and failed.
We think it would be much better for the National Assembly to provide for the proper deepening of the friends
and in a loving and patient manner attempt to instill in them a respect for Bahá’í laws. Rash action can
dampen the zeal of the community, and this must be avoided at all costs.
Letter of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 20, 1969, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 211
As to deprivation of voting rights for immorality, while we may not have written you on the subject it should
be clear that sanctions should not be imposed for isolated acts of immorality. Only extreme cases involving
acts of blatant and flagrant immorality reflecting on the name of the Faith and repeated time after time in spite
of warnings should be taken as a basis for suspension of voting rights.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated June 14, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Cohabitation
The Guardian has instructed me to say that companionate marriage, where there is no legal or religious
marriage, is an immoral relationship and we cannot accept as believers those who are openly behaving in this
way.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated September 26, 1957, to several National Spiritual Assemblies, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1275
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
When considering cases of couples who are living together without being married it is important to
distinguish those who started this association after becoming Bahá’ís from those who were in this condition
already at the time of accepting the Faith. The House of Justice is sure that your Assembly is aware that it is
not permissible for Bahá’ís to enter into such an immoral relationship and that any believers who do so must
be counselled by the Assembly and warned to correct their conduct, either by separating or by having a Bahá’í
marriage ceremony in accordance with the provision of Bahá’í Law. If, after repeated warnings, the believers
concerned do not conform to Bahá’í Law, the Assembly has no choice but to deprive them of their voting
rights.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated September 7, 1981, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1270
With respect to your question about two people of the opposite sex who are not married living in the same
house, such an arrangement would by no means automatically constitute an “immoral relationship.” It is not
uncommon, for example, for a person to let out bed-sitting rooms in his or her house to students, vacationers,
or others. Similarly, a man or woman may employ a housekeeper or servant of the other sex. What is
considered proper in such arrangements varies from country to country. The laws and principles of our Faith,
on the other hand, are meant to apply across all cultures, and what Bahá’ís would consider immoral is people
who are not married living together as husband and wife, and indulging in sexual relations.
Beyond this, however, even if the relationship between a man and woman is entirely innocent, it is vitally
important that they should not live together in a way that would give the wrong impression. If there is any
doubt about the perceived morality of a particular situation they should unhesitatingly avoid it and seek
alternative arrangements in order to preserve the good name of the Faith. In following the standards of the
Faith, the friends must be not only righteous, but also wise. Naiveté can do great harm, especially in the
present unstable condition of social morals in the world at large.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 13, 1997
Unmarried Bahá’ís, generally speaking, should not live in a residence with members of the opposite sex who
are unrelated to them because the appearance of the situation may adversely affect the reputation of the
Faith. Shared living arrangements may be acceptable, however, if the Local Assembly feels that the
arrangements do not create an impression of immorality or moral laxity. It is for the Assembly to determine, on
a case-by-case basis, whether or not a given living situation creates such an appearance.
See also:
Other Enrollment Considerations — Cohabitation — Ch. 5
LAWS NOT CURRENTLY BINDING ON WESTERN
BELIEVERS
Laws of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas that are not currently binding on Western believers are as follows (The Kitáb-i-
Aqdas section numbers, enclosed in brackets, are included for reference):
•
Arson, adultery, murder and theft are all forbidden to Bahá’ís, but the punishments prescribed for
them in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas are designed for a future state of society. Such matters are usually covered
by the civil laws of each country. [IV.D.(1)(y)(xiv), (xv), (xvi) and (xvii)]
•
Betrothal, laws governing. [IV.C.(1)(i)]
•
Dowry payable by the groom to the bride on marriage, law concerning. [IV.C.(1)(j)]
•
Finding of lost property, the disposition of treasure trove, the disposal of objects held in trust and
compensation for manslaughter, laws relating to, are all designed for a future state of society. These
matters are usually covered by the civil law of each country. [IV.D.(1)(t), (u), (v) and (w)]
•
Fines payable to the House of Justice relating to the divorce law. [IV.C.(2)(b)]
•
Hunting of animals, the law concerning. [IV.D.(l)(r)]
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 10 – Application of Bahá’í Law
•
Inheritance, law of. This is normally covered by civil laws of intestacy at the present time. [IV.C.(3)]
•
Mashriqu’l-Adhkár, the law of, is gradually being put into effect. [IV.D.(1)(d)]
•
Maturity, the age of, applies only to Bahá’í religious duties as yet. On other matters it is subject to the
civil law of each country. The age of administrative maturity in the Bahá’í community has, for the time
being, been fixed at 21. [IV.D.(1)(j)]
•
Pilgrimage, law of. [IV.D.(1)(a)]
•
Laws prohibiting use of the type of pools which used to be found in Persian baths, the plunging of
one’s hand in food, the shaving of one’s head and the growth of men’s hair below the lobe of the ear
[IV.D.(1)(y)(xxv), (xxx), (xxxi) and (xxxii)].
•
Tithes, the law of. [IV.D.(1)(p)]
•
Traveling of husband away from his wife, laws concerning. [IV.C.(1)(l) and (m)]
•
Virginity of the wife, laws relating to. [IV.C.(1)(n) and (o)]
Revised April 2016

11. MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE .................................................................................................................................3
PURPOSE OF MARRIAGE ..........................................................................................................................................3
MARRIAGE DESIRABLE BUT NOT OBLIGATORY.................................................................................................3
IMPORTANCE OF UPHOLDING BAHÁ’Í MARRIAGE LAWS ..................................................................................4
DATING .........................................................................................................................................................................4
ENGAGEMENT ............................................................................................................................................................5
PARTIES THEMSELVES HAVE FREE CHOICE ABOUT PARTNER ......................................................................5
PURPOSE OF ENGAGEMENT ................................................................................................................................6
95-DAY PERIOD OF ENGAGEMENT ......................................................................................................................6
Applicable to Persian Believers Wherever They Reside ......................................................................................6
Westerners Are Not Presently Bound by 95-Day Engagement Law ....................................................................7
BREAKING OF ENGAGEMENT ...............................................................................................................................7
DOWRY ....................................................................................................................................................................8
RESPONSIBILITY OF LOCAL ASSEMBLY IN UPHOLDING MARRIAGE LAWS.....................................................8
ROLE OF ASSEMBLY IN OFFICIATING A BAHÁ’Í MARRIAGE ..............................................................................8
Marriage outside the Contiguous United States ...................................................................................................8
Counsels and Guides Parties Prior to Authorizing Marriage ................................................................................9
Ensures Bahá’í and Civil Marriage Requirements Are Fulfilled ............................................................................9
The Legal Ceremony ........................................................................................................................................9
When Assembly Is Asked to Officiate Marriage in another Assembly's Jurisdiction ........................................9
Approves or Appoints Witnesses ................................................................................................................... 10
Reports Cases of Violation to the National Assembly ....................................................................................... 10
Ensures Bahá’í and Civil Marriage Requirements Are Fulfilled .................................................................... 10
Civil and Bahá’í Laws Concerning the Marriage of First Cousins or Other Relatives .................................... 11
If a Previously Conducted Bahá’í Marriage is Found to Have Been Illegal under Civil Law ......................... 12
ASSEMBLY CHECKLIST FOR BAHÁ’Í MARRIAGE ............................................................................................. 12
OBTAINING PARENTAL CONSENT ........................................................................................................................ 13
PURPOSE OF PARENTAL CONSENT ................................................................................................................. 13
CONSENT REQUIREMENTS ............................................................................................................................... 13
Consent of Parents Is Binding Obligation .......................................................................................................... 13
Assembly or Others May Assist in Seeking Consent ........................................................................................ 14
Consent Is Given for Marriage Itself .................................................................................................................. 14
Consent of Natural Parents of Adopted or Fostered Children ........................................................................... 14
Consent of Adopted or Foster Parents .......................................................................................................... 15
MANNER OF GIVING CONSENT ......................................................................................................................... 16
ASSEMBLY HAS DUTY TO ASCERTAIN VALIDITY OF CONSENTS .................................................................. 16
Whereabouts of Parent Unknown ...................................................................................................................... 16
Locating Parents ............................................................................................................................................ 17
CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER WHICH PARENTAL CONSENT IS NOT REQUIRED ............................................. 17
Parent is Covenant-breaker ............................................................................................................................... 18
Disownment and Abandonment ......................................................................................................................... 18
Cases Where the Parent Never Assumed the Responsibilities of Parenthood ................................................. 19
Renunciation of Right to Give Consent ............................................................................................................. 19
Certified Mental Incapacity of Parent ................................................................................................................. 19
Cases of Physical or Sexual Abuse ................................................................................................................... 20
Cases Where Consent Is Used in a Manner which Subverts the Law's Spirit and Intent ................................. 20
WHEN CONSENT IS WITHHELD ......................................................................................................................... 21
Refusal to Approve or Disapprove ..................................................................................................................... 21
Refusal to Give Consent .................................................................................................................................... 21
PARENTS CAN CHANGE THEIR MINDS ............................................................................................................. 22
THE MARRIAGE CEREMONY ................................................................................................................................. 22
REQUIREMENTS OF BAHÁ’Í LAW ...................................................................................................................... 22
New Believers Already Married May Not Have Bahá'í Ceremony ..................................................................... 22
When Both Parties Are Bahá'í ........................................................................................................................... 23
May Not Have Ceremony of another Religion ............................................................................................... 23
When One or Both Parties Are Non-Bahá’í ....................................................................................................... 23
Revised April 2016

When a Bahá'í Marries a Non-Bahá'í ............................................................................................................ 23
When Two Non-Bahá’ís Marry in Bahá'í Ceremony ...................................................................................... 23
Conditions Permitting Two Religious Ceremonies ........................................................................................ 23
All Civil and Religious Ceremonies Must Be Held on Same Day ...................................................................... 24
Reaffirmation of Marriage Vows ........................................................................................................................ 24
When Civil Ceremony Alone May Be Required ................................................................................................. 24
NATURE OF CEREMONY..................................................................................................................................... 25
Marriage Vow ..................................................................................................................................................... 25
Wedding Rings .................................................................................................................................................. 25
THE RECEPTION .................................................................................................................................................. 26
Alcoholic Beverages Should Not Be Served by Bahá'ís ................................................................................... 26
CONSUMMATION OF MARRIAGE ....................................................................................................................... 26
VIOLATION OF BAHÁ’Í MARRIAGE LAW............................................................................................................... 26
WHEN OTHER BAHÁ'ÍS SHOULD NOT ATTEND CEREMONY .......................................................................... 26
Ignorance of the Law ......................................................................................................................................... 26
CORRECTING A KNOWN VIOLATION ................................................................................................................. 27
Having a Belated Bahá'í Ceremony .................................................................................................................. 27
Obtaining a Civil Divorce ................................................................................................................................... 28
DEPRIVATION OF RIGHTS NOT TO BE DELAYED BEYOND REASONABLE TIME ......................................... 28
Parents Who Condone or Encourage Disregard of the Law ............................................................................. 28
Withdrawal to Avoid Loss of Rights ................................................................................................................... 28
Requirements to be Met if Belated Bahá'í Ceremony is Desired and Possible ................................................ 29
Having Belated Bahá’í Ceremony to Regain Rights .......................................................................................... 29
Divorce May Be Required if Violation Included Acts Contrary to Bahá'í Principles ........................................... 30
Obtaining a Civil Divorce to Regain Rights ....................................................................................................... 30
STRENGTHENING MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE ................................................................................................ 30
EDUCATE COMMUNITY ABOUT MARRIAGE ..................................................................................................... 30
Encourage Practice of Family Prayers .............................................................................................................. 31
Establish Effective Channel for Approaching Assembly about Family Matters ................................................. 31
Assemblies May Intervene in Some Situations ................................................................................................. 31
Record Births of Children .................................................................................................................................. 32
MARRIAGE AND FAMILY ARE BEDROCK OF SOCIETY .................................................................................... 32
Unity of Family Should Take Priority .................................................................................................................. 32
Consultation a Key to Family Unity ............................................................................................................... 33
Equality of Sexes Has Far-Reaching Implications ............................................................................................ 33
CHANGE EVOLUTIONARY AND INEVITABLE .................................................................................................... 34
Rights and Responsibilities of Family Members ................................................................................................ 35
Each Member Has Intrinsic Right to Be Treated with Consideration and Respect ........................................... 36
Couple or Either Party May Seek Assistance for Marital Difficulties ................................................................. 36
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
11. MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
PURPOSE OF MARRIAGE
And when He desired to manifest grace and beneficence to men, and to set the world in order, He revealed
observances and created laws; among them He established the law of marriage, made it as a fortress for well-
being and salvation, and enjoined it upon us in that which was sent down out of the heaven of sanctity in His
Most Holy Book. He saith, great is His glory: “Marry, O people, that from you may appear he who will
remember Me amongst My servants; this is one of My commandments unto you; obey it as an assistance to
yourselves.”
Bahá’u’lláh, in Bahá’í Prayers, p. 105
The true marriage of Bahá’ís is this, that husband and wife should be united both physically and spiritually,
that they may ever improve the spiritual life of each other, and may enjoy everlasting unity throughout all the
worlds of God. This is Bahá’í marriage.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Άbdu'l-Bahá, p. 118
[R]egard the procreation of children as the sacred and primary purpose of marriage…
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 187
The institution of marriage, as established by Bahá'u'lláh, while giving due importance to the physical aspect
of marital union, considers it as subordinate to the moral and spiritual purposes and functions with which it
has been invested by an all-wise and loving Providence. Only when these different values are given each their
due importance, and only on the basis of the subordination of the physical to the moral, and the carnal to the
spiritual, can such excesses and laxity in marital relations as our decadent age is so sadly witnessing be
avoided, and family life be restored to its original purity, and fulfil the true function for which it has been
instituted by God.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated May 8, 1939, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1264
There is no teaching in the Bahá’í Faith that “soul mates” exist. What is meant is that marriage should lead to
a profound friendship of spirit, which will endure in the next world, where there is no sex, and no giving and
taking in marriage; just the way we should establish with our parents, our children, our brothers and sisters
and friends a deep spiritual bond which will be ever-lasting, and not merely physical bonds of human
relationship.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated December 4, 1954, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 689
See also:
Marriage and Family Are Bedrock of Society — Ch. 11
MARRIAGE DESIRABLE BUT NOT OBLIGATORY
While marriage is enjoined in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Bahá'u'lláh clarifies that it is not obligatory (Q & A 46).
Shoghi Effendi, in a letter written on his behalf, also declared that "marriage is by no means an obligation",
and he affirmed that "in the last resort, it is for the individual to decide whether he wishes to lead a family life
or live in a state of celibacy". If a person has to wait a considerable period of time before finding a spouse, or
ultimately must remain single, it does not mean that the individual is thereby unable to fulfil his or her life's
purpose, which is fundamentally spiritual.
Universal House of Justice in “Notes” appended to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, no. 91
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
IMPORTANCE OF UPHOLDING BAHÁ’Í MARRIAGE LAWS
The carrying out of the Bahá'í marriage laws, as given to the friends throughout the world is a vital obligation
of every believer who wishes to marry, and it is an important duty of every Local Spiritual Assembly to
ensure that these laws are known to, and obeyed by, the believers within their jurisdiction, whether or not the
Bahá'í marriage ceremony is recognized by civil law. Each Assembly, therefore, must conscientiously carry
out its responsibilities in connection with the holding of Bahá'í marriage ceremonies, the recording of Bahá'í
marriages in a register kept for this purpose, and the issuing of Bahá'í marriage certificates.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 17, 1981, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in Messages from
the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 280.21
See also:
Educate Community about Marriage — Ch. 11
DATING
[T]here is nothing in the Bahá'í Writings which relates specifically to the so-called dating practices prevalent
in some parts of the world, where two unmarried people of the opposite sex participate together in a social
activity. In general, Bahá'ís who are planning to involve themselves in this form of behavior should become
well aware of the Bahá'í Teachings on chastity and, with these in mind, should scrupulously avoid any actions
which would arouse passions which might well tempt them to violate these Teachings. In deciding which acts
are permissible in the light of these considerations, the youth should use their own judgment, giving due
consideration to the advice of their parents, taking account of the prevailing customs of the society in which
they live, and prayerfully following the guidance of their conscience. It is the sacred duty of parents to instill
in their children the exalted Bahá'í standard of moral conduct, and the importance of adherence to this
standard cannot be over-emphasized as a basis for true happiness and for successful marriage.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 5, 1992, to an individual believer
As you know, in the Advent of Divine Justice [Shoghi Effendi] has stated the principles of Bahá'í conduct
which apply and he has condemned easy familiarity and frivolous conduct. Certainly the practice of
indiscriminate kissing and embracing involving unrelated people of opposite sexes is not desirable and is
discouraged. Particularly in these days when restraints are being abolished one by one, the Bahá'ís should
make great efforts to uphold, in their personal lives and in their relationships to each other, the standards of
conduct set forth in the teachings. The following extract from a letter written by the Universal House of
Justice outlines the responsibility of the individual in determining how the Bahá'í standards apply to daily life,
and the means by which this is accomplished:
It is neither possible nor desirable for the Universal House of Justice to set forth a set of rules covering
every situation. Rather is it the task of the individual believer to determine, according to his own prayerful
understanding of the Writings, precisely what his course of conduct should be in relation to situations
which he encounters in his daily life. If he is to fulfill his true mission in life as a follower of the Blessed
Perfection, he will pattern his life according to the Teachings. The believer cannot attain this objective
merely by living according to a set of rigid regulations. When his life is oriented toward service to
Bahá'u'lláh, and when every conscious act is performed within this frame of reference, he will not fail to
achieve the true purpose of his life.
Therefore, every believer must continually study the sacred Writings and the instructions of [Shoghi
Effendi], striving always to attain a new and better understanding of their import to him and to his society.
He should pray fervently for Divine Guidance, wisdom and strength to do what is pleasing to God, and to
serve Him at all times and to the best of his ability.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
It is not surprising that serious-minded Bahá'í youth growing up in a bewildering moral environment are
asking for specific guidance on the matter of proper conduct in friendship between boys and girls, men and
women. It is also not surprising that their parents and other adult advisors are themselves sometimes confused
on the issues that arise as they find old standards are changing and new patterns of behavior are developing in
society which are unsettling, possibly even frightening to them. The primary protection for the friends in these
matters, both young and old alike, is to continue to deepen, truly deepen, in the Teachings so that their
behavior more readily conforms to the high standards of the Faith.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 5, 1992, to an individual believer
See also:
Dating During Year of Waiting Contrary to Spirit of the Teachings — Ch. 12
Refrain from Dating While Divorce Pending — Ch. 12
ENGAGEMENT
PARTIES THEMSELVES HAVE FREE CHOICE ABOUT PARTNER
As for the question regarding marriage under the Law of God: first thou must choose one who is pleasing to
thee, then the matter is subject to the consent of father and mother. Before thou makest thy choice, they have
no right to interfere.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Άbdu'l-Bahá, p. 118
As you know, courtship practices differ greatly from one culture to another, and it is not yet known what
pattern of courtship will emerge in the future when society has been more influenced by Bahá'í Teachings.
However, there is no indication that it will resemble the practices extant in existing cultures. … In this interim
period, the friends are encouraged to make great efforts to live in conformity with the Teachings and to
gradually forge a new pattern of behavior, more in keeping with the spirit of Bahá'u'lláh's Revelation. In this
context, we offer the following comments.
Although a Bahá'í may, if he chooses, seek his parents' advice on the choice of a partner, and although Bahá'í
parents may give such advice if asked, it is clear from the Teachings that parents do not have the right to
interfere in their children's actual choice of a prospective partner until approached for their consent to marry.
Therefore, when discussing the issue of courtship with your sons, it would be best to discuss it on the level of
principle without reference to individuals.
In the context of the society in which your family now lives, a society in which materialism, self-centeredness
and failing marriages are all too common, your sons may well feel that it is wise to have a long period of
courtship in which the prospective partners spend much time together and become thoroughly acquainted with
each other's character, background and family. This practice does not in itself contradict Bahá'í law and, as it
is not unacceptable in ... , it appears to be a viable option. As you are aware, Bahá'u'lláh ordained that Bahá'í
engagement should not exceed 95 days, and, although this law has not yet been applied universally, it
highlights the desirability of marrying quickly once the decision to marry has been firmly taken and parental
consent obtained. However, in a relationship in which such a decision has not been taken and in which the law
of chastity is strictly observed, there is no objection, in principle, to a prolonged friendship in which the two
individuals entertain the possibility of marrying each other at some time in the future.
You have mentioned that your sons like to invite their girlfriends to spend a lot of time with the family and
that you are not entirely happy with this situation. Each family member has rights which should be respected,
and if you wish to have some time in your home without the presence of non-family members, the other
members of your family should take this seriously into consideration. However, we hasten to point out to you
that the situation which you describe, in which your sons wish their friends to be involved with your family, is
much more in line with the Teachings than the common pattern in Western countries in which many youth
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
virtually exclude their parents from interacting with their peers, sometimes distancing themselves from their
families in order to have the freedom to engage in frivolous and even unchaste behavior.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 28, 1994, to an individual believer
In some cultures, marriages are traditionally arranged by parents, often without the consent of one or more of
the parties. Under Bahá'í law, parties are free to choose whomever they please, without duress of any sort,
regardless of the cultural traditions of the families involved. The wishes of the parents come into play after a
choice is made. Assemblies have an important role in educating believers about these matters.
See also:
Educate Community about Marriage — Ch. 11
PURPOSE OF ENGAGEMENT
Bahá’í marriage is the commitment of the two parties one to the other, and their mutual attachment of mind
and heart. Each must, however, exercise the utmost care to become thoroughly acquainted with the character
of the other, that the binding covenant between them may be a tie that will endure forever. Their purpose must
be this: to become loving companions and comrades and at one with each other for time and eternity.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Άbdu'l-Bahá, p. 118
A couple should study each other’s character and spend time getting to know each other before they decide
to marry, and when they do marry it should be with the intention of establishing an eternal bond.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated November 2, 1982, to an individual believer, in Bahá’í Marriage and
Family Life, no. 62
A couple is not considered to be engaged to be married until the consent of all living parents has been
obtained. Accordingly, a couple should not make marriage plans, set a date for the ceremony, send invitations
or announcements, and so on, until consents have been obtained.
When a couple becomes engaged, the Assembly, or its representatives, may wish to meet with them to be
sure they understand the requirements of the ceremony and the expectations and rewards of Bahá'í
marriage, as well as ways that the institutions of the Faith can be resources for them in sustaining their union
in the future.
95-DAY PERIOD OF ENGAGEMENT
Concerning the question of marriage and the stipulated period between the time of the engagement and the
marriage, this is the decisive text of the Book of God and may not be interpreted. In the past, serious
difficulties and problems arose when a long period of time elapsed between the engagement and the marriage.
Now according to the Text of the Book, when marriage between the parties is arranged, i.e., when the parties
become engaged, and it is certain that they will be married, not more than ninety-five days should elapse
before the marriage takes place ... .
Άbdu'l-Bahá, quoted in a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 11, 1982, to a National Spiritual
Assembly
Applicable to Persian Believers Wherever They Reside
[I]t is unlawful to announce a marriage earlier than ninety-five days before the wedding.
Bahá'u'lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, “Questions and Answers”, no. 43
The law requiring Bahá’ís to be married within the 95-day period following an engagement is not yet
applicable in the West. However, Persians residing in the West obey such laws as a matter of conscience.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 14, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
The ninety-five day period of engagement is binding only when both parties to the marriage, irrespective of
where they reside, are Bahá’ís from Iran or neighboring lands in the Middle East, where many of the laws of
the Kitáb-i-Aqdas have been applied from the time of the ministry of Shoghi Effendi. In cases where children
born to such parents are brought up in the traditions of these countries, speak Persian or Arabic, and are
thoroughly conversant with the laws of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, they will obviously feel an obligation, and should
be assisted, to observe this law as circumstances permit. The circumstances of children of mixed descent will
vary, and it is left to them to decide in light of their own situations whether to observe this law. When the law
of engagement is binding on the couple, the National Spiritual Assembly of the country where the ceremony
is to take place would be responsible for granting an extension, should the situation call for one.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 20, 2012, to a Local Spiritual Assembly
The action you have taken so far in regard to enforcing laws that are binding on the Persian believers living
in the West, that is, leaving it to the individual conscience to carry out these laws, with which they are
familiar, is correct.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated April 11, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The above passages addressing the question of whether Persian believers may use personal discretion in
applying the Bahá'í law regarding engagement does not extend to the application of other laws.
Westerners Are Not Presently Bound by 95-Day Engagement Law
Concerning observance of details of Bahá'í law pertaining to marriage such as the duration of the
engagement period … by the Iranian believers now residing in the West, these laws are binding if the two
parties are Iranians. However, if one party is Iranian and the other is a western believer, the Iranian believer,
although it is a praiseworthy act to inform his/her spouse of these laws, should not bring pressure to bear for
their observance.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 7, 1968, to an individual believer, in Bahá'í Marriage and Family Life, p. 27
The Iranian believers residing in western countries ... should not require the western Bahá’ís to be bound by
the same laws as are applicable to themselves, nor should they expect more of them than the pen of the
beloved Guardian prescribed for them for this period.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 7, 1968, to a National Spiritual Assembly
While westerners are not presently bound by this law, they are free to observe it if they wish.
BREAKING OF ENGAGEMENT
The breaking of an engagement, though not always desirable, does not violate the Bahá’í Marriage Law.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 11, 1969, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1259
In principle, according to the decisive text of Άbdu'l-Bahá, the period of ninety-five days should commence
only when the two parties have been betrothed, and the marriage is agreed. Therefore, the breaking of an
engagement, although possible, should rarely occur. The Assemblies should, when the reason for breaking, or
extending the fixed period of engagement is valid, render every assistance to the parties involved to remove
their difficulties and facilitate their observance of the ordinance of the Book.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated June 29, 1971, to a National Spiritual Assembly, Lights of Guidance, no. 1258
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
DOWRY
Although Bahá’í institutions are not to get involved with dowry matters at this time, it is helpful for Assemblies
to be knowledgeable about this topic so that they are able to provide guidance and information should
questions arise.
The giving of a dowry is binding if both parties to the marriage are Persian. It is a symbolic act whereby the
bridegroom presents a gift of a certain limited value to the bride. The dowry is fixed at 19 mithqáls of pure
gold for city dwellers, and 19 mithqáls of silver for village dwellers. 19 mithqáls is equivalent to 1 váhid. The
criterion for determining the dowry payment is the location of the permanent residence of the bridegroom, not
of the bride. Although ‘Άbdu’l-Bahá has written that the amount of the dowry depends on the financial means
at the disposal of the groom (if he is poor, he pays 1 váhid; 2, if of modest means; 3, if well-to-do; 4, if
wealthy; and 5 váhids if very rich), Bahá’u’lláh has stated that the lowest level of payment (1 váhid of silver) is
more pleasing unto God, provided the two parties agree. Exceeding the limit of 5 váhids is forbidden.
Whatever agreement is reached between the bridegroom, the bride, and their parents should be carried out.
Further details can be found in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pages 208-209.
The value of the dowry can be calculated by multiplying the current value of silver or gold (in $/troy ounce) by
2.225 troy ounces, since 19 mithqáls or 1 váhid equals approximately 2.225 troy ounces. For example, if the
current price of silver is $32/troy ounce, 1 váhid of silver would amount to approximately $71 ($32/troy ounce
x 2.225 troy ounces). If the current price of gold is $1713/troy ounce, 1 váhid of gold would amount to
approximately $3811 ($1713/troy ounce x 2.225 troy ounces).
RESPONSIBILITY OF LOCAL ASSEMBLY IN UPHOLDING
MARRIAGE LAWS
ROLE OF ASSEMBLY IN OFFICIATING A BAHÁ’Í MARRIAGE
For a Local Spiritual Assembly to effectively administer Bahá'í marriages, the members of the Assembly must
themselves understand the basic requirements of the Bahá’í marriage law. These are outlined below with
details following:
•
Consent of both parties
•
Consent of all living parents
•
Assembly appointment or approval of witnesses
•
Conformance with civil requirements
•
Performance of a Bahá'í ceremony (apart from any ceremony of another religion) under the prior
authorization of an Assembly
•
Removal of administrative rights if the marriage laws are broken
Marriage outside the Contiguous United States
When a Bahá’í from the contiguous United States wishes to marry outside of the contiguous U.S., he or she
should be directed to contact the Office of Community Administration in order to be introduced as a Bahá’í in
good standing to the National Assembly for the area where the wedding is to take place (or through other
channels in areas where no National Assembly exists). The individual should provide, if possible, the name of
the person he or she hopes to marry, the expected location and date of the wedding, his or her travel plans
and contact information. The other National Assembly or agency and the individual can work directly with
each other concerning parental consent, witnesses, proof of divorce, if previously married, etc.. Arrangements
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
should be made well in advance so that there is sufficient time to meet all Bahá’í and civil marriage
requirements. The National Assemblies in the Hawaiian Islands and Puerto Rico, for example, have asked to
be notified at least a month before the wedding date.
See also:
Correspondence — Communicating Outside Continental United States — Ch.4
Counsels and Guides Parties Prior to Authorizing Marriage
All Bahá’ís who wish to marry must contact a Local Spiritual Assembly. This may be the Assembly in their own
community, a nearby Assembly if there is not one in their community, or the Assembly in the locality where
they plan to be married. It is not possible to have a Bahá’í marriage ceremony without an Assembly’s prior
authorization. When a couple asks an Assembly to arrange a Bahá’í ceremony for them, the Assembly may
wish to request a meeting between the couple and its representatives to review the Bahá’í Writings on
marriage with them and to impress upon them the importance of the step they are about to take.
The Local Spiritual Assembly does not have the responsibility to approve or disapprove of the marriage or to
discourage the couple from marrying if it does not feel the parties are compatible. If one or both parties should
ask for the Assembly’s advice, however, it may be given freely.
The Assembly’s representatives may also wish to review with the couple the materials listed in this chapter’s
resources section and/or suggest that the couple participate in a preparation for marriage workshop. The
Core Curriculum offers a workshop on marriage and family life and believers are free to avail themselves of
that and whatever other resources may be available in the wider community.
See also:
Educate Community about Marriage — Ch. 11
Ensures Bahá’í and Civil Marriage Requirements Are Fulfilled
The obligation of the Spiritual Assembly is to ascertain that all the requirements of civil and Bahá’í law have
been complied with, and, having done so, the Assembly may neither refuse to perform the marriage ceremony
nor delay it.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 30, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1231
When a marriage is planned, the Assembly should ask to be informed far enough in advance so that it can
review and approve the parental consent and ensure that arrangements for the Bahá’í ceremony are in
conformity with Bahá’í principles and the requirements of civil law. If difficulties arise in obtaining consent, the
Assembly should lend whatever help it can. Insufficient time given to the Assembly by the couple may
necessitate a delay in the wedding.
The Legal Ceremony
Bahá’í marriage ceremonies are legal in all 50 states. When a Bahá'í marries a non-Bahá'í who wishes to
have another religious or civil ceremony, they may select either ceremony to be the legal one that is
registered in the civil jurisdiction where the marriage takes place.
When the Bahá'í ceremony is the one chosen to be used for the legal purposes, the Assembly representative
who signs the civil license is typically the Chairperson or the Secretary, although each state may have specific
requirements with which the Assembly should make itself familiar.
When Assembly Is Asked to Officiate Marriage in another Assembly's Jurisdiction
If an Assembly has been asked to perform a marriage in another Assembly’s jurisdiction, it must first inform
the other Assembly and obtain its approval.
If an Assembly is asked to officiate a marriage that will take place in another state, if it has permission from
the Assembly in that jurisdiction, it may do so only under either of two circumstances:
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
1.
If there is another civil or religious ceremony held that will be the legal ceremony,
or
2.
If the civil jurisdiction in which it will be held allows someone who is legally recognized to officiate
marriages in another state to officiate marriages in the state in which it will be held.
In other words, if the Bahá'í ceremony is the only ceremony and, therefore, the legal one, the officiating
Assembly must be in the state in which the marriage is taking place or the Assembly must ascertain from the
state whether it is permissible to have an out-of-state Assembly officiate. The Assembly should obtain a
written copy of the regulation for its permanent files.
Approves or Appoints Witnesses
These two witnesses may be chosen by the couple or by the Spiritual Assembly, but must in any case be
acceptable to the Assembly; they may be its chairman and secretary, or two members of the Assembly, or two
other people, Bahá’í or non-Bahá’í, or any combination of these ...
The witnesses can be any two trustworthy people whose testimony is acceptable to the Spiritual Assembly
under whose jurisdiction the marriage is performed. This fact makes it possible for a lone pioneer in a remote
post to have a Bahá’í marriage.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 8, 1969, to a National Spiritual Assembly
In considering the acceptability of the witnesses the Assembly must be satisfied as to their reliability.
Pertinent to this is the reply given by Bahá’u’lláh when asked for a definition of the qualifications of those
who may be called upon to give testimony or bear witness.
His reply was that a witness must be of “good reputation among men,” and “the testimony of followers of any
faith is acceptable to God.”
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 2, 1976, to an individual believer
Reports Cases of Violation to the National Assembly
If a believer marries after becoming a Bahá’í and knows the Bahá’í law but does not fulfill its requirements, he
or she is subject to possible removal of administrative rights. The Local Spiritual Assembly is responsible for
handling the case and for reporting the facts and its recommendation to the National Assembly.
See also:
Violation of Bahá’í Marriage Law — Ch. 11
Ensures Bahá’í and Civil Marriage Requirements Are Fulfilled
The obligation of the Spiritual Assembly is to ascertain that all the requirements of civil and Bahá’í law have
been complied with, and, having done so, the Assembly may neither refuse to perform the marriage ceremony
nor delay it.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 30, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1231
When a marriage is planned, the Assembly should ask to be informed far enough in advance so that it can
review and approve the parental consent and ensure that arrangements for the Bahá’í ceremony are in
conformity with Bahá’í principles and the requirements of civil law. If difficulties arise in obtaining consent, the
Assembly should lend whatever help it can. Insufficient time given to the Assembly by the couple may
necessitate a delay in the wedding.
If an Assembly has been asked to perform a marriage in another Assembly’s jurisdiction, it must first inform
the other Assembly and obtain its approval.
Before officiating a Bahá’í marriage, the Assembly must check that the marriage would be in compliance with
current civil marriage laws. Thus, it is important for the Assembly to be familiar with these laws. Many states
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
prohibit the marriage of first cousins. Some have mandatory waiting periods or blood tests, while others
require that the bride and groom be at least a certain age or have a minimal mental capacity. Details can be
obtained from the office or website of the county clerk (or recorder or registrar, depending on the state). If the
civil authorities do not have systems in place to check that all their requirements are being met before issuing
the marriage license, the Assembly itself should do this. For example, in a state which does not permit first-
cousin marriages, if there is any possibility that a couple wishing to marry could be first cousins, they should
be specifically asked about this. If they are first cousins, an Assembly in such a state would have to decline
performing the marriage. Instead, it could advise the couple on other options such as where they could go to
marry legally.
Civil and Bahá’í Laws Concerning the Marriage of First Cousins or Other Relatives
Assemblies need to be aware of the civil laws in their area concerning the marriage of first cousins.
Historically, such marriages have been common in many parts of the world including Iran. In most of the
United States, however, they are illegal. First-cousin marriages are permitted without restriction only in:
Alabama
Florida
New Mexico
Alaska
Georgia
New York
California
Hawaii
Rhode Island
Colorado
Maryland
South Carolina
Connecticut
Massachusetts
Tennessee
District of Columbia
New Jersey
Vermont
Virginia
First-cousin marriages are also permitted, under the following circumstances, in:
Arizona – if both parties are 65 or older, or one is unable to reproduce
Illinois – if both parties are 50 or older, or one is unable to reproduce
Indiana – if both parties are at least 65
Maine – if the couple obtains a physician’s certificate of genetic counseling
North Carolina – as long as the parties are not double cousins
Utah – if both parties are 65 or older, or are 55 or older and one is unable to reproduce
Wisconsin – if the woman is 55 or older, or one is unable to reproduce
Note that, although the lists above are up to date as of 2012, civil marriage laws are subject to change.
Assemblies should therefore confirm them with state or local authorities as needed.
In the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the only explicit prohibition on marrying a relative is with one’s stepmother or stepfather.
Άbdu'l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi have confirmed, however, that this does not mean that all other unions within
a family are permissible. Άbdu'l-Bahá has also written that the more distant the blood-relationship between
the couple the better, since such marriages provide the basis for the physical well-being of humanity and are
conducive to fellowship among mankind. Bahá’u’lláh states that it devolves upon the House of Justice to
legislate “concerning the legitimacy or otherwise of marrying one’s relatives.” (The Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 222)
Since questions concerning marriage to one’s kindred are not included in the Bahá’í marriage laws at present
applied in the West, the House of Justice has written that such matters are left to the conscience of the
individual Bahá’í who must, in any event, obey the civil law.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
If a Previously Conducted Bahá’í Marriage is Found to Have Been Illegal under Civil
Law
Should it come to an Assembly’s attention that a community member’s past Bahá’í marriage was not legal
under civil law (for example, if first cousins were allowed to marry because the Assembly did not realize that
such a marriage was prohibited by the state) the marriage may continue to be viewed as legitimate from a
Bahá’í perspective provided that it was solemnized in good faith and had been originally accepted as valid by
Bahá’í institutions. If the parties in such a marriage are unaware that their marriage violated civil law, the
Assembly should discreetly inform them about the situation and encourage them to investigate their options
and to regularize their marital status. In some cases this may involve remarrying in a civil ceremony in a state
that allows first-cousin marriages, and/or moving to such a state. If the couple choose not to take such steps,
they could possibly face difficulties should their relationship and marital status ever become known publicly. It
is up to the couple to decide, however, whether or not to take any action regarding this matter. If they wish,
they may simply continue to consider themselves married.
ASSEMBLY CHECKLIST FOR BAHÁ’Í MARRIAGE
Bahá’ís who are deprived of their administrative rights may not have a Bahá’í ceremony. A Bahá’í in good
standing who marries a Bahá’í without administrative rights places his or her own rights in jeopardy. This list
summarizes information contained elsewhere in this chapter. For more detail, please refer to the relevant
section.
Before the ceremony:
1.
If one or both parties state that they are a Bahá'í, make certain that each Bahá’í is a registered Bahá’í
in possession of his or her administrative rights.
•
If a Bahá’í is unknown to the Assembly, ask to see the person’s membership card and verify his
or her standing. If the person does not have a card or there is a question about membership
status, the Local Assembly can verify membership status using eMembership2, or it can call or
write the Office of Membership and Records at the Bahá'í National Center.
•
If the believer is from another country and has not transferred his or her membership, the Local
Assembly will need to contact the National Assembly and ask it to contact the other country to
verify membership. This can be a time-consuming process.
2.
Ensure that parental consent (whether written or oral) has been freely given. This validation should
come either directly from the parents themselves or from a reliable third party.
3.
If either of the parties has been married before, make sure that a civil divorce was granted and, if they
were Bahá'ís at the time of the divorce, that a Bahá’í divorce was granted. The Assembly should
require proof of both civil and Bahá'í divorces.
4.
Confirm two witnesses. It is not required that they are Bahá’ís, and they may be chosen by the couple
or by the Assembly. If they are chosen by the couple, they must be acceptable to the Assembly. It is
not required that an Assembly member attend the ceremony.
5.
When more than one ceremony is to be performed, make sure that all ceremonies will be held on the
same Gregorian day. (The Gregorian calendar is that which is currently in use in the Western world
where the course of a day is taken to be from midnight to midnight rather than from sunset to sunset.)
6.
Make sure the parties understand that other marriage ceremonies may not be combined with the
Bahá'í ceremony.
7.
Be certain that all the requirements for civil law (e.g., that the parties are not first cousins if your state
prohibits this, etc.) have been met. If the Bahá’í ceremony is to be the legal one, also be certain that
the civil license has been obtained
8.
Be sure to obtain a Bahá'í Marriage Certificate, available for a small fee from the Office of
Membership and Records at the Bahá'í National Center, well in advance of the ceremony, if the
Assembly does not have one on hand.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
After the ceremony:
1.
Complete the Bahá’í Marriage Certificate immediately following the Bahá’í ceremony, whether or not it
is the legal one. The bride and groom should sign their names as they were before the marriage, and
the Assembly should follow suit on the bottom of the certificate.
2.
If the Bahá’í ceremony was the legal one, sign and mail the civil license to the County Clerk or other
designated civil official soon after the ceremony. Make sure it is sent before the deadline and signed
by the appropriate person. Some jurisdictions have specific requirements for this. If the Assembly
Chairman or Secretary do not actually attend the wedding, the couple or witnesses should ensure
that the Assembly receives the civil license as soon as possible after the ceremony.
3.
Fill out and mail, within a few days after the ceremony has been held, a Bahá’í Membership Data
Report to the National Spiritual Assembly (Attn: Office of Membership and Records), certifying that
the marriage has taken place. Include name and address changes, if applicable. Send a separate
Bahá’í Membership Data Report for each person who is a registered Bahá'í.
4.
Record the marriage in the Assembly's marriage register.
See also:
Register of Vital Statistics — Ch. 5
Role of Local Assembly in Officiating a Bahá'í Marriage — The Legal Ceremony — Ch. 11
OBTAINING PARENTAL CONSENT
PURPOSE OF PARENTAL CONSENT
It hath been laid down in the Bayán that marriage is dependent upon the consent of both parties. Desiring to
establish love, unity and harmony amidst Our servants, We have conditioned it, once the couple’s wish is
known, upon the permission of their parents, lest enmity and rancour should arise amongst them.
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, par. 65
Bahá’u’lláh has clearly stated the consent of all living parents is required for a Bahá’í marriage. ... This great
law He has laid down to strengthen the social fabric, to knit closer the ties of the home, to place a certain
gratitude and respect in the hearts of children for those who have given them life and sent their souls out on
the eternal journey towards their Creator.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 25, 1947, quoted by the Universal House of Justice in letter dated December
11, 1973, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1251
You will note that the aspect of protecting the child from making the wrong decision is not mentioned in any
... quotations as a reason for the law, although it may well play a part in the parents’ decision as they have the
obligation to consider the welfare and happiness of their children at all times. However limited our
understanding of this and other laws given us by Bahá’u’lláh, we are assured that the divine blessings await
those who place their reliance in Him and obey His commandments.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 19, 1972, to individual believers
CONSENT REQUIREMENTS
Consent of Parents Is Binding Obligation
About the consent of parents for marriage; this is required before and also after the man or woman is twenty-
one years of age. It is also required in the event of a second marriage, after the dissolution of the first whether
through death or through divorce.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
The parental consent is also a binding obligation irrespective of whether the parents are Bahá’ís or not,
whether they are friendly or opposed to the Cause. In the event of the death of both parents, the consent of a
guardian is not required.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 10, 1936, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1234
In many cases of breach of marriage laws the believers apparently look upon the law requiring consent of
parents before marriage as a mere administrative regulation, and do not seem to realize that this is a law of
great importance affecting the very foundations of human society. Moreover they seem not to appreciate that
in the Bahá’í Faith the spiritual and administrative aspects are complementary and that the social laws of the
Faith are as binding as the purely spiritual ones.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 29, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1236
In all cases of marriage, including remarriage, Bahá’ís are required to have consent of all living parents of
both parties.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 29, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Regarding the question whether it is necessary to obtain the consent of the parents of a non-Bahá’í
participant in a marriage with a Bahá’í: as Bahá’u’lláh has stated that the consent of the parents of both parties
is required in order to promote unity and avoid friction, and as the Aqdas does not specify any exceptions to
this rule, the Guardian feels that under all circumstances the consent of the parents of both parties is required.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated August 12, 1941, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1240
Assembly or Others May Assist in Seeking Consent
If the young lady is concerned about approaching her father directly she may ask others to do this on her
behalf. We suggest also that the Local Assembly be asked to assist.
Letter from Universal House of Justice, dated August 18, 1968, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1248
Consent Is Given for Marriage Itself
It is not essential that the parents of the prospective bride and groom know that either of the parties is a
Bahá’í, nor is it necessary for them to give consent to the Bahá’í ceremony. It is sufficient if the parents give
consent to the marriage itself.
However, Bahá’ís may not dissimulate their faith and if the parents ask about their religion they should not
hesitate to say that they are Bahá’í.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated April 23, 1969, to a National Spiritual Assembly
It should be understood that consent to marriage is all that is required from a parent. It is not necessary that
the parents consent to a Bahá’í ceremony. However, if the reason the parent refuses to give consent is the fact
that the parties propose to have a Bahá’í ceremony, then the marriage cannot take place.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated February 24, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Consent of Natural Parents of Adopted or Fostered Children
Regarding the matter of adopted children, the consent of all natural parents must be obtained wherever this is
legally possible but no effort should be made to trace the natural parents if this contravenes the provisions of
the adoption certificate or the laws of the country.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated October 24, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no 1250
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
It is not enough to surmise that it is forbidden to trace the natural parents; it must actually be determined that
such is the case. Otherwise, the child must make an effort to locate the natural parent or parents and obtain
their consent.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated June 16, 1966, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Whenever the law of the land or the agreement of adoption prohibits future contact between an adopted child
and its natural parents, the Bahá'í law does not require the child to seek the consent of those parents to its
marriage.
In the situation, however, where contact with the natural parent is permitted, it should be a matter of wise
discretion at what stage contact, in cases where it has been broken, should be re-established. Just as love for
one person need not reduce the love one bears to another, so unity with the adoptive parents need not destroy
or reduce the unity a child has with its natural parents, or vice versa. The characters and attitudes of the
individuals concerned will have an effect upon this.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated February 17, 1971, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 469
The House of Justice has also ruled that where, in signing the documents giving her child for adoption, a
mother has agreed that she would be permanently deprived of her rights as parent or guardian and has no right
to see the child, get in touch with him or have him returned to her, she has, in the eyes of the Bahá’í law,
disowned her child and her consent for his marriage is not required. This would also apply in the case of a
natural father.
This ... is quite distinct from the situation where parents have had their children fostered by another family by
an agreement under which they do not give up their rights and obligations as natural parents. Under such a
situation the consent of the natural parents would be required.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 18, 1986, to a National Spiritual Assembly
This, as you point out, is quite different from the situation where parents have had their children fostered by
another family by an agreement under which they do not give up their rights and obligations as natural
parents. Under such a situation the consent of the natural parents would be required.
In no circumstances can the responsibility for giving or withholding consent for marriage be transferred to the
foster parents.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated November 18, 1986, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Consent of Adopted or Foster Parents
Consent of adopted parents is not necessary to Bahá’í marriage although there is no objection at all to their
giving it if the parties concerned so desire.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 6, 1968, to a National Spiritual Assembly
It is the consent of the natural parents that is required for marriage. Consent from foster parents is not a
requirement of existing Bahá’í law, although, of course, there is no objection to a child asking his foster
parents for consent, if he so wishes.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 28, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
In short, love for the foster parents and unity with their home should not exclude love for a child's natural
parents, although it is likely a child will become very much more a part of the home in which he lives and
grows up.
Of course, wherever the law of the land or the Agreement of Adoption prohibits future contact between an
adopted child and its natural parents, the Bahá'í law does not require the child to seek the consent of those
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
parents to its marriage. However, children may very well wish to obtain the consent of their foster parents
although not obliged to do so.
Letter of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 11, 1973, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1251
MANNER OF GIVING CONSENT
While it is desirable to have a signed consent from each parent it is not a requirement under Bahá’í Law. The
responsible Spiritual Assembly must satisfy itself that consents are freely given but it should not insist upon a
signed document. Reliable evidence of oral consents is quite sufficient; some parents freely give their
consents orally while refusing to write their consents.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 11, 1978, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1253
Should the parents in their letter of consent, as you indicated, not name a specific future spouse, the House of
Justice states that it could be accepted and it would be permissible to perform a Bahá’í marriage ceremony on
the basis of such a letter.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 9, 1975, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no 1254
For evidence on oral consent to marriage to be deemed reliable, it should only be accepted directly from the
parents themselves or from a family member, friend, or other trustworthy third party, not from the prospective
bride or groom.
ASSEMBLY HAS DUTY TO ASCERTAIN VALIDITY OF CONSENTS
With reference to the matter of the consent of the parents to a Bahá’í marriage; as this is a vital binding
obligation, it is the duty of the Assemblies to ascertain, before giving their sanction, that the consent obtained
has been given freely by the parents themselves.
Shoghi Effendi, in Principles of Bahá’í Administration, pp. 13–14
We must recognize that Bahá’u’lláh established institutions which are the bulwark of His World Order. One
of these is the Local Spiritual Assembly which, amongst its other responsibilities, is called upon to administer
the laws governing marriage. Although it is not necessary to obtain “permission” to marry from the Assembly,
there are certain requirements which must be met before a Bahá’í marriage can take place, such as
presentation to and acceptance by the Assembly of consent of all living natural parents and whatever civil
documents, if any, are necessary according to local law.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 2, 1976, to an individual believer
Announcements and plans for marriage should not be made until the Local Assembly has ascertained that the
required consents have been obtained and, if there were prior marriages, divorce requirements have been
met.
Whereabouts of Parent Unknown
Since there is evidence to presume that his father is alive, there is no alternative but for Mr. ... to continue
efforts to locate the father through all avenues of investigation which may be open to him, including
advertising.
The investigation should continue until the only reasonable conclusion which can be reached is that the father
is dead.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 18, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
You must make every effort to ascertain the names and whereabouts of your natural parents, including
contacting persons, firms or agencies, and advertising in newspapers. If the search proves fruitless and the
Assembly is satisfied that every reasonable avenue of search has been exhausted it may conclude that the
parents be presumed deceased and their consent is not obtainable.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 12, 1981, to an individual believer
If the whereabouts of the parents is not known legally, in other words, if they are legally dead, then it is not
necessary for the children to obtain their consent, obviously. It is not a question of the child not knowing the
present whereabouts of its parents, it is a question of a legal thing — if the parents are alive they must be
asked.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated June 26, 1956, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1243
If you are satisfied that Mr. … has exhausted all reasonable possibilities of locating his father, you may
consider that the father is legally dead and that he is therefore excused from obtaining his father’s consent.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 27, 1966, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Locating Parents
Friends and relatives of the missing parent are usually the most valuable resources to be explored. Other
reasonable avenues to try to locate the missing parent(s) may include the following:
•
Write the person in care of his or her last known address, with “address correction requested” on the
envelope.
•
Write to the postmaster or Post Office for any forwarding address the person might have left. The cost
is minimal.
•
Call directory assistance.
•
Explore internet search sites such as www.peoplefinders.com, www.whitepages.com or others.
•
Social Security, the Veterans’ Administration, Railroad Retirement, State Bureau of Child Support
Enforcement, the Secretary of State’s office or other applicable agencies will forward a letter under
certain conditions. While the Social Security Agency (SSA) will not release a person’s address, it may
be willing to forward a letter to the person. Further information from the SSA is available from
www.ssa.gov/foia/html/ltrfwding.htm or Social Security Administration, Letter Forwarding, P.O. Box
33022, Baltimore, MD 21290-3022. Letters are read by the SSA before forwarding and it generally
does not forward letters from relatives but restates the request in another letter. For this reason it may
be more expeditious for the letter to be written by the Assembly or other non-relative.
•
Place a personal want ad in the paper or papers where it might be seen by the parent or by the
parent’s friends.
•
An agency that often is willing to help is the Salvation Army. Contact the local Salvation Army Missing
Persons Office.
See also:
Guidelines for Understanding and Updating Membership Data — Where to Search for a Correct Address — Ch. 5
CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER WHICH PARENTAL CONSENT IS NOT
REQUIRED
When a case of this nature comes to the attention of a Spiritual Assembly, it should communicate with
relevant parties and thoroughly look into the situation, verify the information received, and come to its own
decision on the basis of relevant principles and the facts of the case. Some cases are obvious, such as when a
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
parent in a straightforward manner makes a demand of his son or daughter that is clearly unrelated to the
marriage. In other cases the motivations of the parent may not be immediately evident or may be difficult to
establish; in such instances the Assembly must take the time necessary to consult with the parent so that
clarity can be reached. Often a parent will need time to reflect on the principles involved, ponder whatever
advice the Assembly may have given, and consider how his position relates to his duties as a parent with
respect to the law of marriage. Moreover, a parent or child may wish to appeal the decision of the Assembly.
The Assembly should also be attentive to the possibility that the parent or one of the parties to the proposed
marriage can be prone to distorting the situation to suit his or her purposes.
In view of the inherently delicate and sensitive nature of such cases, the process of investigating the facts and
gaining a clear understanding of the situation can take considerable time, and a patient and loving approach is
required. It would be inappropriate for the Assembly or the couple to impose a deadline by which the parent is
to make a decision, such as by setting a date for the wedding. Preparations for the ceremony should not be
undertaken until consent has been given or the National Assembly has decided to permit the marriage to
proceed without the consent of one or more of the parents.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated October 18, 2011, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Consent Requirements — Consent of Natural Parents of Adopted or Fostered Children — Ch. 11
Consent Requirements — Consent of Adopted or Foster Parents — Ch. 11
Parent is Covenant-breaker
[C]ircumstances under which parental consent for Bahá’í marriage is not required are the following: … If
the parent is a Covenant-breaker.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 30, 1971, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1244
Disownment and Abandonment
[I]n some cases it is permissible under the law of God either for the parents or for the children to disown the
other, to deprive the other of certain rights, to sever family ties and to renounce their responsibilities.
Letter from Shoghi Effendi, dated November 15, 1940, to a National Spiritual Assembly
In the case of an abandoned child, if the abandonment really means that the baby has been left to be
discovered by other people, it is obviously impossible to trace the parents. If, however, either parent is known
and there are no legal barriers in the way, consent should be sought.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 6, 1968, to a National Spiritual Assembly
It is possible for a parent to disown his children, and if your Assembly finds that a parent has done so in
accordance with the laws, customs and practices of the people of the area in which the parent resides ... then
no consent is required.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 18, 1986, to a National Spiritual Assembly
In case of a parent who abandons his family and disappears without a trace or support, this does not constitute
disowning a child. Every effort should be made to trace the parent and secure consent for marriage. If,
however, the Assembly is satisfied that every avenue of search has been exhausted and the missing parent has
not been found, the marriage can take place.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 23, 1987, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
It appears that the practice of shunning a family member who has left the denomination is a doctrine of the
Jehovah’s Witnesses. If the Local Spiritual Assembly of … is satisfied with the accuracy of the facts Mr. …
has presented, his mother’s actions could be accepted as disownment in the context of Bahá’í law and he
would be free to marry without her permission.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 22, 2007, to a National Spiritual Assembly
All cases of possible disownment are to be referred to the National Assembly by the Local Assembly handling
the case.
Cases Where the Parent Never Assumed the Responsibilities of Parenthood
[A] child may be permitted to marry without seeking the consent of a man who denies paternity and never
assumed the responsibilities of parenthood. Marriage is also permitted without seeking the consent of a parent
who abandoned the child from infancy. Furthermore, a child conceived as a consequence of rape is not
obliged to seek consent of the male offender.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 19, 2010, to a National Spiritual Assembly
If the assumed natural father denies that he is the father of the child the following principles apply: if his
name appears on the birth certificate of the child and if the law of the country presumes that the name on the
birth certificate is that of the father, then he should be considered as the father for the purpose of obtaining
consent. If the name of the father given on the birth certificate is not a conclusive presumption of parenthood
and if the man in question has always denied that he is the father of the child, the child is not required to seek
the consent of this man unless it has been legally established that he is the father notwithstanding his denial.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated October 24, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1250
When cases arise involving any of the circumstances discussed above, a Local Spiritual Assembly should
ascertain all relevant facts and refer the matter for consideration to the National Spiritual Assembly. The
Assembly should exercise care not to unduly invalidate the rights of the parents.
See also:
Consent Requirements — Consent of Natural Parents of Adopted or Fostered Children — Ch. 11
Assembly Has Duty to Ascertain Validity of Consents — Locating Parents — Ch. 11
Circumstances under Which Parental Consent Is Not Required — Disownment and Abandonment — Ch. 11
Renunciation of Right to Give Consent
However, a quite different situation exists when a parent adopts the point of view that the child is an adult,
free to marry whomsoever he or she wishes, and the parent sees no reason for being asked for consent. Such
an attitude, if clearly established, is tantamount to the parent’s renunciation of the right to give or withhold
consent and can be accepted by the Assembly as freeing the child from the requirement to obtain consent from
that parent. Another possibility is that parents state that they have such confidence in their children that they
have given them general consent to marry whomsoever they wish; in this instance, such general consent
would suffice to satisfy the requirements for Bahá'í marriage. In neither circumstance is there disownment,
but the statement of the parent opens the way for the requirement of Bahá'í law to be satisfied.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 5, 1993, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Certified Mental Incapacity of Parent
The Guardian feels therefore, that you must secure your Mother’s approval, before marriage, unless the
Doctor certifies that she is incapable of making a decision.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, letter dated June 21, 1954, to an individual believer
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
If the father should be found but it is determined and certified that he is mentally incapable of giving consent,
then obviously no consent is necessary.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 18, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
With reference to the reported condition of the prospective groom’s father, his consent must be obtained
despite a state of senility or total illiteracy. However, should the father be medically certified as mentally
incompetent his consent to the marriage would not be required.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 28, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Medical Matters — Diminished Mental Capacity — Ch. 14
Cases of Physical or Sexual Abuse
[T]he consent of a parent is not required if he or she engaged, or was complicit, in the sexual or physical
abuse of a child. The application of this decision will require careful investigation and wisdom on the part of
the responsible Bahá’í institutions. While many forms of treatment of a child may be considered unfair or
harsh, the institutions cannot diminish the standard for defining or assessing abuse, lest the parents be
deprived too easily of their right to consent. Parents are liable to err and might be immoderate in the exercise
of physical or verbal chastisement. In a permissive age, strict discipline or authoritarian behavior can be
perceived as a form of abuse, even by some psychologists. Furthermore, if an individual finds it impossible to
change the decision of a parent unwilling to give consent, he or she might be tempted to circumvent the
requirement by exaggerating past behavior of the parent to make it seem like abuse. Nevertheless, it is unjust
to require a true victim of abuse to renew ties with, or submit to the will of, an abuser. In order to deprive the
parent of the right to consent, the Assembly must be satisfied that abuse has actually occurred. To this end, it
may find it necessary to seek corroboration from reliable witnesses or the views of qualified professionals.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 19, 2010, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The Assembly should exercise care not to unduly invalidate the rights of the parents; yet, while children have
the obligation to abide by the Bahá’í marriage law, they also have the right to be protected. In these types of
cases, the Local Assembly should gather and report all relevant facts, including possible criminal records, civil
decrees removing the rights of a parent, written accounts from other family members, records from social
service agencies, letters from therapists, and any other substantiating documentation of the case, along with
its recommendation to the National Assembly. The National Assembly will then evaluate the case and decide
whether or not parental consent for marriage is required.
See also:
Communications — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
Handling Violations of Bahá’í Law — Ch. 10
Criminal Offenses — Abuse — Ch. 10
And in Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies
Cases Where Consent Is Used in a Manner which Subverts the Law's Spirit
and Intent
[T]he right of the parent to consent can be forfeited if he or she seeks to use the requirement for consent in a
manner which subverts the spirit and intent of the law or obstructs an individual’s right as a believer in
Bahá’u’lláh to marry in accordance with the provisions of Bahá’í law. For example, Άbdu’l-Bahá states, “As
for the question regarding marriage under the Law of God: first thou must choose one who is pleasing to thee,
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
and then the matter is subject to the consent of father and mother.” Yet, in some instances, a parent has refused
consent in order to deprive the child of the right to choose and to force the child to marry someone of the
parent’s choosing. In other instances, a parent has denied consent in order to try to prevent the child from
marrying anyone.
A parent also violates the spirit of the marriage law if he or she uses the requirement for consent to exert
unjustifiable control over factors that are unrelated to the prospective marriage. An example of this
transgression is a parent who threatens to withhold consent as a means of manipulating the child’s behavior to
create estrangement between the child and the other parent. Another example is a parent who misuses the law
to extract financial benefits or other concessions from the child or the child’s other parent.
It is important for an Assembly to distinguish such violations of the spirit of the law from the reasons a parent
might have for denying consent to marry in a particular instance. Parents have a wide degree of latitude to
determine how they choose to exercise their responsibility. As long as the spirit of the law is not violated they
may refuse consent, and their conclusion is binding, even if it appears to the children or to others that they are
being unreasonable or are acting out of prejudice. Ultimately, parents are responsible before God for their
decision.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 19, 2010, to a National Spiritual Assembly
When cases arise involving any of the circumstances discussed above, a Local Spiritual Assembly should
ascertain all relevant facts and refer the matter for consideration to the National Spiritual Assembly. The
Assembly should exercise care not to unduly invalidate the rights of the parents; yet, while children have the
obligation to abide by the Bahá’í marriage law, they also have the right to be protected from the excesses
imposed by parents that violate the spirit and intent of that law.
WHEN CONSENT IS WITHHELD
Refusal to Approve or Disapprove
We have your letter of May 10, 1968 requesting guidance on the question of obtaining consent of parents to
marriage in a case in which parents refuse to approve or disapprove.
The Bahá’í law on this subject is clear: the consent of parents must be obtained before the marriage can take
place. The refusal of the parents to make a decision has the same effect, in this case, as refusal to give
consent. Only if the parents later decide to give consent can the Bahá’í marriage be performed.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 20, 1968, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Refusal to Give Consent
The validity of a Bahá’í marriage is dependent upon the free and full consent of all four parents. The freedom
of the parents in the exercise of this right is unrestricted and unconditioned. They may refuse their consent on
any ground, and they are responsible for their decision to God alone.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 19, 1938, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations,
Vol. II, no. 2312
If any one of the parents refuses to give his or her consent for any reason, including the fact that a Bahá’í
ceremony is to be carried out, then the marriage cannot take place.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 23, 1966, to a National Spiritual Assembly
It is perfectly true that Bahá’u’lláh’s statement that the consent of all living parents is required for marriage
places a grave responsibility on each parent. When the parents are Bahá’ís they should, of course, act
objectively in withholding or granting their approval.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
They cannot evade this responsibility by merely acquiescing in their child’s wish, nor should they be swayed
by prejudice; but, whether they be Bahá’í or non-Bahá’í, the parents’ decision is binding, whatever the reason
that may have motivated it. Children must recognize and understand that this act of consenting is the duty of a
parent. They must have respect in their hearts for those who have given them life, and whose good pleasure
they must at all times strive to win.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated February 1, 1968, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1237
Bahá’ís who cannot marry because of lack of consent of one or more parents could consult with their Local
Spiritual Assembly, to see whether it may suggest a way to change the attitude of any of the parents involved.
The believers, when faced with such problems, should put their trust in Bahá’u’lláh, devote more time to the
service, the teaching and the promotion of His Faith, be absolutely faithful to His injunctions on the
observance of an unsullied, chaste life, and rely upon Him to open the way and remove the obstacle, or make
known His will.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 9, 1969, to an individual believer
PARENTS CAN CHANGE THEIR MINDS
Concerning ... consent to her daughter’s marriage: this must be given in order to be a Bahá’í Marriage.
Bahá’u’lláh requires this and makes no provision about a parent changing his or her mind. So they are free to
do so. Once the written consent is given and the marriage takes place, the parents have no right to interfere
any more.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated June 15, 1954, in Messages to Canada, pp. 205-206
THE MARRIAGE CEREMONY
For a Bahá'í marriage ceremony to be valid, a Local Assembly must have prior knowledge of it and have
given its authorization for the marriage to take place. An Assembly’s authorization is required, regardless of
whether or not the Bahá’í ceremony is to be the legal one, if there is more than one ceremony.
All Bahá’ís planning to marry must contact an Assembly to request a Bahá'í ceremony and are strongly
encouraged to contact the Assembly at the earliest possible date to give it a reasonable period of time to
ensure that Bahá’í marriage requirements are met. Failing to give an Assembly adequate time to fulfill its
responsibilities may lead to a delay in the wedding ceremony.
See also:
Non-Bahá’í Cultural and Religious Events — Attending Ceremonies of Other Religions — Ch. 14
REQUIREMENTS OF BAHÁ’Í LAW
New Believers Already Married May Not Have Bahá'í Ceremony
New believers who are already married ... are not required to have a Bahá’í ceremony. They are already
married in the sight of the Bahá’í community. There is no objection to such a couple having friends in for
readings about marriage and/or prayers for their marriage.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 12, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The Bahá’í ceremony is something that takes place at the time the parties are first married and not something
that occurs long afterwards. Therefore, persons who were married prior to becoming Bahá’ís should not have
a Bahá’í ceremony after they have enrolled in the Faith.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 23, 1964, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
When Both Parties Are Bahá'í
May Not Have Ceremony of another Religion
The instructions of the beloved Guardian are clear on this point. When two Bahá’ís are married they may not
be married by the religious ceremony of another Faith.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 20, 1968, to a National Spiritual Assembly
When two Bahá’ís are marrying, the wedding ceremony should not be held in the place of worship of
another religion, nor should the forms of marriage of other religions be added to the simple Bahá’í ceremony.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated March 2, 1986, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1295
If the parents of a Bahá’í couple are, for example, Christians, there is no objection to their attending church
with their parents and their parents’ friends and relations, if their parents so wish, in order to pray for the
future of the marriage, but such attendance should not involve any form of marriage ceremony or simulated
marriage ceremony.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 19, 1975, to a National Spiritual Assembly
When One or Both Parties Are Non-Bahá’í
When a Bahá'í Marries a Non-Bahá'í
It is only when a non-Bahá’í partner is involved that a Bahá’í may participate in the religious ceremony of the
non-Bahá’í partner.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 20, 1968, to a National Spiritual Assembly
When Two Non-Bahá’ís Marry in Bahá'í Ceremony
From the Bahá’í standpoint it is permissible for Local Assemblies to witness marriages between two non-
Bahá’ís provided that all the requirements of Bahá’í law governing marriage have been met.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 30, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
According to information current at the time of publication, at least one of the partners to the marriage must be
a Bahá’í, if the marriage is to be legally recognized in Kentucky, Pennsylvania, or Wisconsin.
In these states, marriages between two non-Bahá’ís may be performed by the Local Spiritual Assembly as
long as another marriage ceremony, legally recognized by the state, is performed on the same day. It may be
helpful to contact the County Clerk’s Office (Marriage License Division) and/or contact the State Legislators
Office to obtain up-to-date information on the validity of Bahá’í marriage between two non-Bahá’ís.
Conditions Permitting Two Religious Ceremonies
If a Bahá’í marries a non-Bahá’í who wishes to have the religious ceremony of his own sect carried out, it
must be quite clear that, first, the Bahá’í partner is understood to be a Bahá’í by religion, and not to accept the
religion of the other party to the marriage through having his or her religious ceremony; and, second, the
ceremony must be of a nature which does not commit the Bahá’í to any declaration of faith in a religion other
than his own.
Under these circumstances, the Bahá’í can partake of the religious ceremony of his non-Bahá’í partner. The
Bahá’í should insist on having the Bahá’í ceremony carried out before or after the non-Bahá’í one, on the
same day.
Shoghi Effendi, in Directives from the Guardian, no. 120
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
When a Bahá’í is marrying a non-Bahá’í, and the religious wedding ceremony of the non-Bahá’í partner is to
be held in addition to the Bahá’í ceremony, both ceremonies may, if requested, be held in the place of worship
of the other religion provided that:
•
Equal respect is accorded to both ceremonies. In other words, the Bahá’í ceremony, which is basically
so simple, should not be regarded as a mere formal adjunct to the ceremony of the other religion.
•
The two ceremonies are clearly distinct. In other words, they should not be commingled into one
combined ceremony.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated February 26, 1986, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1295
As long as both the Bahá’í and the other religious (whatever it may be) ceremony are both performed prior to
the consummation of the marriage, we do not mind which ceremony is performed first. It should be left to the
individuals concerned to decide among themselves.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated August 9, 1945, in Messages of Shoghi Effendi to the Indian Subcontinent, 1923-
1957, p. 262
All Civil and Religious Ceremonies Must Be Held on Same Day
As to the holding of the Bahá’í and civil marriage ceremonies on the same day, as consummation of the
marriage should not take place until both ceremonies have been held, a night should not intervene between the
two ceremonies.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated April 23, 1971, to an individual believer
If a civil ceremony is required by law in addition to the two religious ceremonies, all three ceremonies must
be held on the same day.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 15, 1980, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1281
Believers who plan to have a ceremony in another country should be aware that in some countries, a civil
ceremony is required regardless of how many religious ceremonies are held.
Fulfilling the same day requirement can be problematic when the bride’s and groom’s families are in different
countries and wish to have separate religious ceremonies carried out in their own localities. The National
Assembly should be contacted for guidance in such situations.
Reaffirmation of Marriage Vows
In all these cases, because the union is accepted by the Faith there is no question of a couple’s having a
Bahá’í wedding ceremony subsequently because, as the Guardian says, “Bahá’í marriage is something you
perform when you are going to be united for the first time, not long after the union takes place.” If, however,
such a couple would like to have a meeting of their friends at which Bahá’í prayers and readings are said on
behalf of their marriage now that they are Bahá’ís, there is no objection to their doing so, although it must be
understood that this does not constitute a Bahá’í marriage ceremony.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated June 23, 1969, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1272
When Civil Ceremony Alone May Be Required
A couple who obtains a civil divorce and then reconciles before the completion of their year of waiting and the
granting of their Bahá’í divorce must have a civil ceremony to legalize their union under civil law or risk
removal of their administrative rights.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
See also:
After Civil Divorce But before End of Year of Waiting — Ch. 12
Relation of Civil Divorce to Bahá'í Divorce — Ch. 12
NATURE OF CEREMONY
[T]here is no ritual, according to the Aqdas, and the Guardian is very anxious that none should be introduced
at present and no general form accepted. He believes the ceremony should be as simple as possible, the parties
using the words ordained by Bahá’u’lláh and excerpts from the writings and prayers being read, if desired.
There should be no commingling of the old forms with the new and simple one of Bahá’u’lláh, and Bahá’ís
should not be married in the church or any other acknowledged place of worship of the followers of other
faiths.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 13, 1944, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1298
An Assembly has the overriding duty to protect the good name of the Faith in relation to any activity of the
friends, but it should always exercise great care not to restrict the individual’s freedom of action
unnecessarily. Normally the size of the wedding celebration, the place in which it is to be held and who is to
be invited are all left entirely to the discretion of the bride and groom and an Assembly should interpose an
objection only if it is quite certain that the Cause will really be injured if it does not do so.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 20, 1966, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1292
When the Assembly counsels a couple concerning the nature of the Bahá'í ceremony, it should take care to
be sure they understand that the term “commingle,” in this case, means to mix or blend together different
traditional or new-age elements with the Bahá'í ceremony in a way that makes it difficult to distinguish that the
Bahá'í ceremony is unique and distinct from other elements.
Marriage Vow
The bride and groom, before two witnesses, must state “We will all, verily, abide by the Will of God.”
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 8, 1969, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The sincerity with which the sacred verse is spoken is a matter for the consciences of those who utter it.
According to the explicit text of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, both the bride and groom must, in the presence of
witnesses, recite the prescribed verse; this is an essential requirement of the marriage ceremony. Thus if a
Bahá’í is marrying a non-Bahá’í and this person for any reason refuses to utter this verse, then the Bahá’í
cannot marry that person.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 23, 1985, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1284
The marriage vow must be spoken separately, in succession by the bride and the groom and is customarily
said in English. Persian may be used only if the Assembly’s witnesses are Persian speakers. If languages
other than English or Persian are proposed, the Assembly must ensure that an authorized translation of the
vow is used and that its witnesses are conversant in that language.
Wedding Rings
There is no guidance concerning the use of wedding rings and believers are free to use them or not as they
wish.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
THE RECEPTION
Alcoholic Beverages Should Not Be Served by Bahá'ís
No Bahá’í should serve alcohol at any function or reception given by him, such as a wedding reception or a
party to which a number of people are invited.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 31, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no, 1177
When a Bahá'í is marrying a non-Bahá'í, the non-Bahá'í may wish to serve alcoholic beverages and is free to
do so. No pressure should be placed upon the non-Bahá'í to conform to Bahá'í law, but Bahá'ís attending the
wedding should avoid alcohol.
See also:
Use of Alcohol— Ch. 10
CONSUMMATION OF MARRIAGE
The consummation of marriage by a couple is, as you aptly state, an intimate and private matter outside the
scrutiny of others.
While consummation normally implies a sexual relationship, the Bahá’í law requiring consummation to take
place within twenty-four hours of the ceremony can be considered as fulfilled if the couple has commenced
cohabitation with the intention of setting up the family relationship.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 28, 1978, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1299
VIOLATION OF BAHÁ’Í MARRIAGE LAW
WHEN OTHER BAHÁ'ÍS SHOULD NOT ATTEND CEREMONY
Further to your letter of 5 September 1974, the Universal House of Justice has now had an opportunity to
consider your question about believers attending weddings of Bahá’ís who are marrying contrary to Bahá’í
law, and we have been asked to convey to you the following.
If it is known beforehand that a believer is violating such laws, it would be inappropriate for the friends to
attend the ceremony. This is out of respect for Bahá’í law. However, if without realizing the situation
believers find themselves in attendance at a ceremony in the course of which it is apparent that such a
violation is occurring, they should not make an issue of it.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 11, 1974, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1293
Ignorance of the Law
At the present stage in the development of the Bahá’í community, Bahá’ís who failed to have a Bahá’í
marriage through ignorance of the law are in a different category altogether from those who willingly broke
the law. ... The former should be treated in the same manner as those Bahá’ís who married before they entered
the Faith and those Bahá’ís who married without a Bahá’í ceremony before the law was applied: They should
be considered married and not be required to have a Bahá’í ceremony.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 20, 1966, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1278
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
In considering matters of this sort the beloved Guardian has instructed that each case must be considered on
its own merits, and that a decision in one case is not to act as precedent in another. Hence, in this case, if your
Assembly determines that Mr. ... and Miss ... did not clearly understand that Bahá’í law requiring consent of
parents applies to civil as well as Bahá’í marriage, you could decide not to impose sanctions. On the other
hand, if it should be found that Bahá’í law was known and clearly understood and that the violation was
deliberate, a different decision would be indicated.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 9, 1963, to a National Spiritual Assembly
If the Assembly has reason to suspect that the person concerned was ignorant of Bahá’í Law it will wish to
investigate this fact before applying sanctions. ... This should not involve unreasonable delay, especially if the
Assembly is unable to evoke any response from the offender.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 20, 1971, to a National Spiritual Assembly
CORRECTING A KNOWN VIOLATION
One who knows about the existence of the law should not be excused from obeying it because it is
inconvenient to have a Bahá’í marriage or because he cannot obtain consent of parents.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 19, 1970, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The sanction of withdrawal of voting rights is the greatest punishment which a National Assembly may
impose upon a believer and for that reason it should not be exercised unless it is clear that the believer with
full knowledge of the laws involved deliberately violated them. Each case should be considered individually
and on its own merits.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 19, 1970, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The principle that an Assembly should repeatedly warn an offender to correct his ways before it deprives him
of his voting rights applies to such continuing offenses as flagrant immorality, or membership in non-Bahá’í
religious organizations. It cannot be applied in the same way to a one-time offense such as a breach of Bahá’í
marriage laws.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 20, 1971, to a National Spiritual Assembly
When a person has knowingly violated the Bahá’í marriage law by marrying without a Bahá’í ceremony, the
violation may be corrected in one of two ways:
•
Holding a belated Bahá’í ceremony, or
•
Obtaining a civil divorce
In upholding the Bahá’í marriage law, it is important to keep in mind that every effort should be made to help
the person correct his violation so that the removal of administrative rights, which carries heavy spiritual
penalties, can be avoided. Wherever possible, the person should be urged to have a belated Bahá’í
ceremony within a reasonable period of time to avoid the removal of membership rights.
See also:
Deprivation of Rights Not to Be Delayed beyond Reasonable Time — Divorce May Be Required If Violation Included
Acts Contrary to Bahá'í Principles — Ch. 11
Having a Belated Bahá'í Ceremony
Where, for example, the only offense is that no Bahá’í ceremony took place, it may be possible to contact the
couple concerned and arrange for the early celebration of the Bahá’í marriage, and thus avoid the necessity of
depriving them of their voting rights. But such a delay between the ascertainment of the offense ... and the
imposition of sanctions should not extend into months, and certainly not into years.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 20, 1971, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
A civil marriage ceremony itself is not contrary to Bahá’í law, therefore if the … [parent’s] consent is
obtained … the dissolution of the civil marriage would not be required.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 8, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The above reference is to when a marriage has taken place without holding a Bahá'í ceremony. Having a
Bahá'í ceremony would correct the violation but the Assembly should verify that the believers involved are
actually in possession of their administrative rights and permissions have been obtained before allowing the
ceremony.
Obtaining a Civil Divorce
If a believer who married without a Bahá'í ceremony does not wish to have a belated ceremony, his or her
only other alternative to being deprived of administrative rights is to obtain a civil divorce.
If a Bahá’í has married without a Bahá’í ceremony, after becoming a Bahá’í, and then dissolves this marriage
by divorce, there is no question of requiring a Bahá’í divorce or observance of a year of waiting, because
there was, in Bahá’í law, no recognized marriage.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 20, 1971, to a National Spiritual Assembly
DEPRIVATION OF RIGHTS NOT TO BE DELAYED BEYOND REASONABLE
TIME
As soon as the Assembly has evidence satisfying it that a breach of Bahá’í Marriage Law has been
committed, and if it is satisfied that the party concerned knew the law, it should not delay deprivation of
voting rights beyond a reasonable time. It does not have to wait for a response from the offender.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 20, 1971, to a National Spiritual Assembly
If a person does not correct the violation of the law by having a belated Bahá’í ceremony or by applying for a
civil divorce within a reasonable period of time (usually 30–60 days), the Assembly should promptly
recommend that the National Spiritual Assembly remove the person’s voting rights.
See also:
The Administration of Justice — Ch. 10
Parents Who Condone or Encourage Disregard of the Law
In connection with your question regarding the case of Mr. and Mrs. ... and their daughter, the Guardian
considers that your Assembly did quite right to deprive all three of their voting rights. Their conduct in
carrying out a Moslem marriage in the circumstances set forth by you in your letter, and contrary to Bahá’í
law, are most reprehensible, to say the least, and if such actions are not strongly censured by the Bahá’ís,
other friends may be encouraged in moments of weakness to err.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 10, 1951, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 191
Normally the responsibility to have the Bahá’í ceremony held on the same day devolves upon the Bahá’í
participant, but if the parents are Bahá’ís and are found to be responsible for condoning or encouraging a
disregard of Bahá’í marriage laws, they become equally subject to any application of sanctions.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 23, 1966, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Withdrawal to Avoid Loss of Rights
We note the case in which believers have evidently attempted to withdraw from the Faith in an effort to
evade the Bahá’í law requiring consent of parents. This, of course should not be permitted and such believers
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
are subject to administrative expulsion, i.e., loss of voting rights on the same basis as if they had not made
that attempt.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 7, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
If a believer who did not like a particular law were to be permitted to leave the community to break the law,
and then rejoin with impunity, this would make a mockery of the Law of God.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 15, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 204
See also:
Criteria for Withdrawal — Withdrawing to Avoid Bahá’í Law — Ch. 5
Removal of Administrative Rights — Ch. 10
Requirements to be Met if Belated Bahá'í Ceremony is Desired and Possible
1. The National Assembly must be satisfied that the believer truly repents for having violated the laws of
Bahá’u’lláh.
2.
That all living parents consent to the marriage and that the consent is freely given and not conditioned on
the fact that the parties are already living in a married relationship.
3.
That there be a Bahá’í ceremony. For this purpose the National Assembly should restore voting rights
immediately before the Bahá’í ceremony and on condition that it takes place.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 29, 1966, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Restoration of Administrative Rights — Expression of Repentance — Ch. 10
Having Belated Bahá’í Ceremony to Regain Rights
Following receipt of the Local Spiritual Assembly’s recommendation, the National Assembly will determine
whether restoration of the individual’s administrative rights is in order and the Bahá’í marriage ceremony can
be permitted to take place.
If the Bahá’í involved can satisfy your Assembly of sincere repentance and the living parents are prepared to
give their consent, the rectification of the breach of law can be made by having a Bahá’í marriage ceremony.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 23, 1966, to a National Spiritual Assembly
When the having of a Bahá’í marriage ceremony is one of the conditions of the restoration of voting rights
the marriage should take place immediately after the restoration of the rights which are restored on condition
that the marriage does take place. This is because a Bahá’í without voting rights cannot have a Bahá’í
marriage.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated October 24, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
A delayed Bahá’í marriage, conducted for reasons of fulfillment of Bahá’í law and in the full spirit of the
Bahá’í ceremony should not be viewed as a mockery but as the confirmation of a union contracted outside
Bahá’í law.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 27, 1969, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1132
In cases involving only the civil ceremony, voting rights may be restored if the Assembly feels that the
believers are truly repentant and wish to comply with the Bahá’í law previously broken. The civil marriage
ceremony itself is not contrary to Bahá’í law, and therefore the dissolution of the civil marriage is not required
if the parents gave their consent. If prior consent of the parents was not obtained, the Bahá’í ceremony may
still take place if the parents give their consent to the marriage and the Assembly is satisfied that the consent
has been genuinely and freely given and is not conditioned by the fact that the parties have already had a civil
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
ceremony. In such cases the Assembly would restore voting rights immediately before the Bahá’í ceremony
on condition that it be performed.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 27, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Divorce May Be Required if Violation Included Acts Contrary to Bahá'í
Principles
In order to have his voting rights returned, your Assembly would have to determine whether he is truly
repentant, and whether or not he has taken any steps to correct the error in violation of Bahá’í law. In the case
of a vow contrary to Bahá’í principles, this would involve dissolution of the bonds of marriage.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated October 3, 1963, to a National Spiritual Assembly
If Mr. ... participated in the religious ceremony of another faith, the question of denial or concealment of his
faith, or the undertaking of a vow contrary to Bahá’í principles may enter in. If a Bahá’í denies his faith,
conceals it or undertakes a vow contrary to Bahá’í principles, restoration of his voting rights is dependent
upon his repairing the wrong. If the marriage was dependent upon any of the foregoing, he must also divorce.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 8, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
[N]o Bahá'í can conscientiously swear to bring up his children in another religion; and of course he has no
right to lie; therefore it becomes impossible for him to make such a promise on his marriage to a non-Bahá'í.
Any Bahá'í doing this should be deprived of his voting rights; and, as he has already made plain before,
Bahá'ís who go to the church and are married as Christians must also of necessity be deprived of their voting
rights.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated May 13, 1956, to a continental Teaching Committee, in Lights of Guidance, no. 471
See also:
Restoration of Administrative Rights — Ch. 10
Sexual Immorality — Cohabitation — Ch. 10
Conditions under which Year of Waiting not Required — Improperly Contracted Marriage or Legal Annulment — Ch. 12
Obtaining a Civil Divorce to Regain Rights
Inasmuch as Mrs. … married after she was a Bahá’í and without the benefit of a Bahá’í marriage, she is not
regarded as married under Bahá’í law. Therefore no Bahá’í divorce is required, and consequently the year of
waiting is not required.
Under these circumstances, when she obtains a civil divorce and upon finding by your National Assembly that
she is repentant for having violated Bahá’í law, you are free to restore her voting rights.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 15, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly
STRENGTHENING MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE
EDUCATE COMMUNITY ABOUT MARRIAGE
Local Assemblies are responsible for making certain that the members of their community understand both
the requirements of Bahá’í marriage law and the nature of the sanctions which can be imposed when the laws
are violated - (it should be noted that this is not a matter of information to be checked at the time of
enrolment, but rather represents a continuing L.S.A. responsibility for deepening the Bahá’í community.)
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated April 14, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
Breaches of the Bahá’í marriage law are often due to the believers’ ignorance of or misinformation about
either the substance of the Bahá’í law or its importance and presently binding requirements. Local Spiritual
Assemblies play a vital role in preventing the development of these situations. An Assembly should not
assume that all of the friends in its community are aware of the Bahá’í marriage law. As opportunities arise,
whether at the Nineteen Day Feast or at community deepenings, the Assembly should make every effort to
promote healthy marriages and educate the community about both the marriage and divorce laws and the
Assembly’s role in these matters, as well as the high standards of moral behavior expected of Bahá'ís.
There are a number of Bahá'í resources available for community education about marriage and family life.
The Office of Assembly Development can provide  workshops modules on consultation, conflict resolution,
gender and racial equality, and domestic violence geared to both the community and to the Assembly. For
more information contact the Office of Assembly at the Bahá’í National Center.
Assemblies may wish to encourage couples to attend available courses and workshops. Each year, the
permanent Bahá’í schools offer sessions designed to support couples and family unity. To see a schedule of
current programs, visit www.bahai.us/centers-of-learning. It may also wish to sponsor retreats, outings, and
activities that celebrate marriage and nurture families. Assemblies will wish to be sure that both traditional and
non-traditional families are welcomed and included, and their different needs addressed.
Encourage Practice of Family Prayers
Great efforts must be made to encourage them [Local Assemblies] to discharge their primary duties of
meeting regularly, holding the Nineteen Day Feasts and observing Holy Days, organizing children’s classes,
encouraging the practice of family prayers…
Message from the Universal House of Justice, dated Ridván 1984, to the Bahá'ís of the World, Messages of the Universal House of
Justice 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 394.7
Establish Effective Channel for Approaching Assembly about Family Matters
The Assembly may wish to appoint representatives and/or establish a task force to handle the needs of the
community for counseling and matters pertaining to family life, marriage and divorce. All such appointees
would act on behalf of the Assembly, making recommendations and reports to it. However, any administrative
decisions regarding marriage, year of waiting, or divorce would continue to be the direct responsibility of the
Assembly itself.
See also:
Representatives, Task Forces and Other Appointees — Ch. 3
Assemblies May Intervene in Some Situations
The principle followed here is that we do not pry into people's lives ...
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated September 7, 1981, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1270
Regarding consultation: Any person can refer a matter to the Assembly for consultation whether the other
person wishes to or not. In matters which affect the Cause the Assembly should, if it deems it necessary,
intervene even if both sides don't want it to, because the whole purpose of the Assemblies is to protect the
Faith, the Communities and the individual Bahá'ís as well.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 17, 1944, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 582
While the Assembly should not, except in rare cases, intervene in marital situations without the request of at
least one of the parties, it should make the community aware that it or its representatives are available to
consult and provide guidance and it is best that couples not wait to seek assistance until a situation has
deteriorated to such an extent that either the husband or the wife is thinking of divorce.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
If a situation arises in which the Assembly is concerned that there might be abuse, it should refer to the
Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies.
See also:
Should not Intervene without Compelling Reasons — Ch. 12
Record Births of Children
When a Bahá'í couple has a child it is a matter of joy to the whole local community as well as to the couple,
and each Local Spiritual Assembly should be encouraged to keep a register of such births, issuing a birth
certificate to the parents. Such a practice will foster the consolidation of the community and of the Assembly
itself. Even if only one of the parents is a Bahá'í, the Assembly could register the birth of the child, and upon
application of the Bahá'í parent, issue the certificate.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 17, 1981, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in Messages from
the Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 280.20
Bahá'í Birth Certificates are available for a nominal fee from the Office of Membership and Records at the
Bahá’í National Center at (847) 733-3437.
See also:
Declaration and Enrollment or Registration of Children and Youth — Children of Bahá'í Parents — Ch. 5
Register of Vital Statistics — Ch. 5
Adoption — Ch. 14
MARRIAGE AND FAMILY ARE BEDROCK OF SOCIETY
The Bahá'í teachings … centre on marriage and the family as the bedrock of the whole structure of human
society and are designed to protect and strengthen that divine institution.
Universal House of Justice in “Notes” appended to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, no. 134
The protection of the family and the promotion of its well-being must become central to community
processes. The family is the primary institution of society and the principal incubator of values, attitudes,
beliefs and behaviors. When it is spiritually healthy, it contributes significantly to the development of happy
and responsible citizens.
Bahá'í International Community, dated June 1996, “Sustainable Communities in an Integrating World”
Strong families have many benefits. The family is a bulwark against hard times, the most basic of support
systems for its members. People in strong families are healthier, happier, and better adjusted.
In terms of social development in general and the overall advancement of civilization, the family is likewise
of primary importance. For it is in the family that basic values and morality are formed. It is in the family that
the essential capacities for learning, self-confidence, and positive social interaction are acquired. And it is
from the base of a strong family that individuals are best able to contribute to society as a whole …
Bahá'í International Community, “Perspective: The Family and Development”, in One Country, Vol. 15, no. 2, July-Sept. 2003
Unity of Family Should Take Priority
In considering the problems that you and your wife are experiencing, the House of Justice points out that the
unity of your family should take priority over any other consideration. Bahá'u'lláh came to bring unity to the
world, and a fundamental unity is that of the family. Therefore, we must believe that the Faith is intended to
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
strengthen the family, not weaken it. For example, service to the Cause should not produce neglect of the
family. It is important for you to arrange your time so that your family life is harmonious and your household
receives the attention it requires.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 1, 1978, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. II, no. 2336
See also:
In Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies — Support Families — Unity of Family must be Sustained
Consultation a Key to Family Unity
Note ye how easily, where unity existeth in a given family, the affairs of that family are conducted; what
progress the members of that family make, how they prosper in the world. Their concerns are in order, they
enjoy comfort and tranquillity, they are secure, their position is assured, they come to be envied by all. Such a
family but added to its stature and its lasting honour, as day succeedeth day.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Άbdu'l-Bahá, p. 279
One of the keys to the strengthening of unity is loving consultation. The atmosphere within a Bahá'í family as
within the community as a whole should express “the keynote of the Cause of God” which, the beloved
Guardian has stated, “is not dictatorial authority but humble fellowship, not arbitrary power, but the spirit of
frank and loving consultation.”
Letter of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 1980, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 734
It should also be realized that a child, from early life, is a conscious and thinking soul, a member of his
family with his own duties towards it, and is able to make his own sacrifices for the Faith in many ways. It is
suggested that the children should be made to feel that they are given the privilege and opportunity of
participating in the decisions as to the services their parents are able to offer, thus making their own conscious
decision to accept those services with consequence for their own lives. Indeed, the children can be led to
realize that it is the earnest wish of their parents to undertake such services with their children's whole-hearted
support.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 23, 1977, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 774
See also:
Consultation — Ch. 4
Equality of Sexes Has Far-Reaching Implications
In general, the laws of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas are stated succinctly. An example of this conciseness can be seen in
the fact that many are expressed only as they apply to a man, but it is apparent from the Guardian's writings
that, where Bahá'u'lláh has given a law as between a man and a woman, it applies mutatis mutandis between a
woman and a man unless the context makes this impossible. For example, the text of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
forbids a man to marry his father's wife (i.e., his stepmother), and the Guardian has indicated that likewise a
woman is forbidden to marry her stepfather. This understanding of the implications of the Law has far-
reaching effects in light of the fundamental Bahá'í principle of the equality of the sexes, and should be borne
in mind when the sacred Text is studied. That men and women differ from one another in certain
characteristics and functions is an inescapable fact of nature and makes possible their complementary roles in
certain areas of the life of society; but it is significant that Άbdu'l-Bahá has stated that in this Dispensation
"Equality of men and women, except in some negligible instances, has been fully and categorically
announced."
Universal House of Justice in the introduction appended to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, pp. 6–7
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
Present-day conceptions of what is natural and appropriate in relationships — among human beings
themselves, between human beings and nature, between the individual and society, and between the members
of society and its institutions — reflect levels of understanding arrived at by the human race during earlier and
less mature stages in its development. If humanity is indeed coming of age, if all the inhabitants of the planet
constitute a single people, if justice is to be the ruling principle of social organization — then existing
conceptions that were born out of ignorance of these emerging realities have to be recast.
Movement in this direction has barely begun. It will lead, as it unfolds, to a new understanding of the nature
of the family and of the rights and responsibilities of each of its members. It will entirely transform the role of
women at every level of society.
Statement by the Bahá'í International Community, dated March 3, 1995, “The Prosperity of Humankind”, p. 11
[F]irst and foremost, the male-dominated, authoritarian model for the family structure has become widely
discredited — and rightly so. Associated with the oppression of women, inflexible child-rearing practices, and
the preservation of masculine power, this model of family life is now seen as unhealthy and unjust ...
The failure of the male-dominated, authoritarian model has given rise to an alternative in many Western
countries. More liberal — and secular — in its orientation, it wisely gives women a more equal role in family
decisions. At the same time, however, this model has largely discarded the firm sense of morality offered by
religious teachings, opening the door to a kind of permissiveness in child-rearing that all too often leaves
children with no firm sense of values or ethical construct — other than self-gratification …
Of overwhelming importance in this discussion is the principle of equality between women and men. Alone
among the independent world religions, the Bahá'í Faith explicitly calls for the equality of women and men in
its sacred scripture — a fact that negates any claim to exclusive or superior power for men within the family
structure (and society at large).
Bahá'í International Community, “Perspective: The Family and Development”, in One Country, Vol. 15, No. 2, July-Sept. 2003
See also:
Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies — Relationship of Gender Inequality to Domestic Violence
CHANGE EVOLUTIONARY AND INEVITABLE
The principle of the equality between women and men, like the other teachings of the Faith, can be
effectively and universally established among the friends when it is pursued in conjunction with all the other
aspects of Bahá'í life. Change is an evolutionary process requiring patience with one's self and others, loving
education and the passage of time as the believers deepen their knowledge of the principles of the Faith,
gradually discard long-held traditional attitudes and progressively conform their lives to the unifying
teachings of the Cause.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 25, 1984, to an individual Bahá'í, in Messages from the Universal House of
Justice, 1963–1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 402.6
Since change is inevitable if progress is to be made …, a primary challenge to Bahá'ís is to preserve and
improve those wholesome aspects of tribal and family custom that are in accord with the Bahá'í Teachings and
to dispense with those that are not. Such a challenge must be embraced with the understanding that the Book
of God is the standard by which to weigh all forms of behaviour. While unwavering action is necessary,
wisdom and tact and patience must, of course, be exercised … People everywhere have customs which must
be abandoned so as to clear the path along which their societies must evolve towards that glorious, new
civilization which is to be the fruit of Bahá'u'lláh's stupendous Revelation. Indeed, in no society on earth can
there be found practices which adequately mirror the standards of His Cause.
Message from the Universal House of Justice, dated Riḍván 1996, to the followers of Bahá'u'lláh in Africa, in Turning Point, Selected
Messages of the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 5.8
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
Rights and Responsibilities of Family Members
The Research Department has not come across any statements which specifically name the father as
responsible for the “security, progress and unity of the family” as is stated in Bahíyyih Nakhjaváni's book, but
it can be inferred from a number of the responsibilities placed upon him, that the father can be regarded as the
“head” of the family. The members of a family all have duties and responsibilities towards one another and to
the family as a whole, and these duties and responsibilities vary from member to member because of their
natural relationships. The parents have the inescapable duty to educate their children — but not vice versa; the
children have the duty to obey their parents — the parents do not obey the children; the mother — not the
father — bears the children, nurses them in babyhood, and is thus their first educator, hence daughters have a
prior right to education over sons and, as the Guardian's secretary has written on his behalf, “The task of
bringing up a Bahá'í child, as emphasized time and again in Bahá'í Writings, is the chief responsibility of the
mother, whose unique privilege is indeed to create in her home such conditions as would be most conducive
to both his material and spiritual welfare and advancement. The training which a child first receives through
his mother constitutes the strongest foundation for his future development.” A corollary of this responsibility
of the mother is her right to be supported by her husband — a husband has no explicit right to be supported by
his wife. This principle of the husband's responsibility to provide for and protect the family can be seen
applied also in the law of intestacy which provides that the family's dwelling place passes, on the father's
death, not to his widow, but to his eldest son; the son at the same time has the responsibility to care for his
mother.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 28, 1980, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 730
The relationship between family members represents a complex of mutual and complementary duties and
responsibilities that are implemented within the framework of the Bahá'í ideal of family life and are
conducive to its unity. The concept of a Bahá'í family is based on the principle that the man is charged with
the responsibility of supporting the entire family financially, and the woman is the chief and primary educator
of the children. This does not mean that these functions are inflexibly fixed and cannot be changed and
adjusted to suit particular family situations. Furthermore, while primary responsibility is assigned, it is
anticipated that fathers would play a significant role in the education of the children and women would be
breadwinners.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 25, 1984, to an individual believer, in Messages from the
Universal House of Justice, 1963–1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 402.5
In response to a question concerning whether Bahá'u'lláh’s injunction requires a wife and mother, as well as
her husband, to work for a livelihood, the Universal House of Justice has explained that Bahá'u'lláh’s directive
is for the friends to be engaged in an occupation which will profit themselves and others, and that
homemaking is a highly honourable and responsible work of fundamental importance to society.
Universal House of Justice in “Notes” appended to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, no. 56
Recognition of equality and the use of consultation allow a husband and wife flexibility to meet the demands
of a rapidly changing world. Although men and women have complementary capacities and functions in
certain areas, roles are not rigidly defined and may be adjusted, when necessary, to meet the needs of each
family member and the family as a whole. While women are encouraged to pursue their careers, it is in a
manner that does not conflict with their role as mothers. And fathers are not exempt from household duties
and child-rearing.
Bahá'í International Community, dated November 25, 1993, “The Family in a World Community”
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
Each Member Has Intrinsic Right to Be Treated with Consideration and
Respect
As you know, the principle of the oneness of mankind is described in the Bahá'í Writings as the pivot round
which all the Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh revolve. It has widespread implications which affect and remold all
dimensions of human activity. It calls for a fundamental change in the manner in which people relate to each
other, and the eradication of those age-old practices which deny the intrinsic human right of every individual
to be treated with consideration and respect.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 24, 1993, to an individual believer
Couple or Either Party May Seek Assistance for Marital Difficulties
The Guardian is in receipt of your letter ... and has learned with deep concern of the state of disharmony
existing between you and your husband.
While he wishes me to assure you that he will pray for the solution of your domestic troubles, he would urge
you to endeavour, by every means in your power, to compose your differences, and not to allow them to reach
such proportions as to lead to your complete and final separation from your husband.
For while, according to the Bahá'í law, divorce is permissible, yet it is highly discouraged, and should be
resorted to only when every effort to prevent it has proved to be vain and ineffective.
It is for you, and for Mr. … as well, to ponder carefully over the spiritual implications which any act of
divorce on either part would involve, and, strengthened by the power of faith and confident in the blessings
which strict adherence to the principles and laws of Bahá'u'lláh, is bound to confer upon every one of His
faithful followers, to make a fresh resolve to solve your common difficulties and to restore the harmony,
peace and happiness of your family life.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated September 11, 1938, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations,
Vol. II, no. 2314
He feels, in regard to your family problems, that you should take these matters up with your Assembly, if you
desire advice; one of the duties of these Assemblies is to advise and aid the friends, and it is your privilege to
turn to your Assembly ...
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated April 10, 1947, to two believers, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 890
The House of Justice is distressed to learn that you and your husband are continuing to experience marital
difficulties. It has frequently advised believers in such situations to turn to the Spiritual Assemblies for advice
and counsel, and to follow this advice in their efforts to preserve the unity of their marital relationship. It has
been found useful in many instances to also seek the assistance of competent professional marriage
counsellors, who can provide useful insights and guidance in the use of constructive measures to bring about a
greater degree of unity.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 17, 1989, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. II, no. 2346
If assistance for intractable problems within a marriage is needed, efforts should be made long before either
partner becomes hopeless or develops feelings of aversion, antipathy, or repugnance. Sometimes when one
partner refuses to consult about problems or to participate in counseling, the other partner may seek
counseling or consultation that can induce enough of a shift in the interpersonal dynamics to effect a positive
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 11 – Marriage and Family Life
change in the relationship. Therefore, the refusal of one partner to seek assistance from the Assembly or
professional counselors should not be viewed as an insurmountable obstacle to resolving issues.
See also:
Resource Files — Counseling Resources — Ch. 4
Privileged Communications in Civil Law— Ch. 4
Educate Community about Marriage — Assemblies May Intervene in Some Situations — Ch. 11
Duty to Investigate and Try to Reconcile Couple — May Suggest Counseling — Ch. 12
Consider Effect of Divorce on Children, Family and Community — Ch. 12
And in Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies, Support Families, and related sub-topics, if abuse appears to be present
Revised April 2016

12. DIVORCE ....................................................................................................................................................................3
GENERAL PRINCIPLES ..............................................................................................................................................3
DIVORCE ABHORRED AND DISCOURAGED ........................................................................................................3
TERMS DESCRIBING SITUATION THAT CAN LEAD TO DIVORCE .....................................................................4
Antipathy ...............................................................................................................................................................4
Aversion ................................................................................................................................................................4
Other Terms Used .................................................................................................................................................4
REQUIREMENTS FOR BAHÁ’Í DIVORCE .................................................................................................................5
REQUEST FOR BAHÁ’Í DIVORCE ..........................................................................................................................5
YEAR OF WAITING ..................................................................................................................................................5
Purpose of Year of Waiting ...................................................................................................................................5
Use of Terms “Year of Waiting” and “Year of Patience” ........................................................................................5
Required Whether or not Partner Is Bahá’í ..........................................................................................................5
Required Whether or not Bahá’í when Married ....................................................................................................6
Required in Cases of Proven Adultery..................................................................................................................6
Either Party May Apply without Consent of the Other ..........................................................................................6
Physical Separation Required to Begin ................................................................................................................6
CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH YEAR OF WAITING NOT REQUIRED ..................................................................7
Ignorance of Law ..................................................................................................................................................7
Divorce Began before Enrollment as Bahá’í ........................................................................................................7
Bahá’í without Administrative Rights ....................................................................................................................7
Improperly Contracted Marriage or Legal Annulment ...........................................................................................7
DIVORCE IN MARRIAGES VALID UNDER BAHÁ’Í LAW BUT NOT CIVIL LAW ....................................................8
RESPONSIBILITY OF LOCAL ASSEMBLY ................................................................................................................8
OBLIGED TO CONSIDER APPLICATION FOR YEAR OF WAITING ......................................................................8
SHOULD NOT INTERVENE WITHOUT COMPELLING REASONS .......................................................................8
INITIAL MEETING WHEN PARTY(IES) SEEK YEAR OF WAITING........................................................................8
Meet Separately with Each Party .........................................................................................................................9
Screen for Domestic Abuse ..................................................................................................................................9
Confidentiality of Utmost Importance ....................................................................................................................9
AFTER INITIAL MEETING ........................................................................................................................................9
DUTY TO INVESTIGATE AND TRY TO RECONCILE COUPLE .............................................................................9
May Suggest Counseling ................................................................................................................................... 10
May Suggest Seeking Medical Advice................................................................................................................ 11
May Suggest Temporary Separation .................................................................................................................. 11
Establishing Year of Waiting Should Not Be Automatic ...................................................................................... 11
SETTING DATE FOR BEGINNING OF YEAR OF WAITING ................................................................................. 11
Back-dating Year of Waiting ............................................................................................................................... 12
Cannot Shorten Period of Waiting ..................................................................................................................... 12
ROLE OF ASSEMBLY DURING YEAR OF WAITING ........................................................................................... 12
JURISDICTION ...................................................................................................................................................... 14
Applications from Believers Living outside Assembly’s Jurisdiction .................................................................. 14
Relocation of Parties.......................................................................................................................................... 14
Preferable to Maintain Reasonable Proximity to Each Other During Year .................................................... 14
Transfer of Jurisdiction ...................................................................................................................................... 14
RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARTIES ........................................................................................................................... 14
ACTIVELY SEEK RECONCILIATION .................................................................................................................... 14
CONSIDER EFFECT OF DIVORCE ON CHILDREN, FAMILY, AND COMMUNITY ............................................ 15
CONTINUE FINANCIAL SUPPORT DURING YEAR OF WAITING...................................................................... 15
ONE PARTY CANNOT PETITION TO TERMINATE YEAR OF WAITING ............................................................ 16
DATING DURING YEAR OF WAITING CONTRARY TO SPIRIT OF THE TEACHINGS ..................................... 16
REFRAIN FROM DATING WHILE DIVORCE PENDING ...................................................................................... 17
Not Appropriate to Look for New Marriage Partner ........................................................................................... 17
Should Not Announce New Marriage Plans ...................................................................................................... 17
Believers Not Free to Remarry before Bahá'í Divorce Is Granted .................................................................... 17
RECONCILIATION .................................................................................................................................................... 18
Revised April 2016

BEFORE BOTH CIVIL DIVORCE AND END OF YEAR OF WAITING ................................................................. 18
BEFORE CIVIL DIVORCE BUT AFTER END OF YEAR OF WAITING ................................................................ 18
AFTER CIVIL DIVORCE BUT BEFORE END OF YEAR OF WAITING ................................................................ 18
AFTER BOTH CIVIL DIVORCE AND END OF YEAR OF WAITING .................................................................... 18
ACTIONS THAT VOID YEAR OF WAITING ............................................................................................................. 19
SEXUAL RELATIONS BETWEEN SPOUSES ...................................................................................................... 19
SHARING A COMMON RESIDENCE .................................................................................................................... 19
MARRIAGE TO NEW PARTNER DURING YEAR OF WAITING .......................................................................... 19
VIOLATIONS THAT DO NOT VOID YEAR OF WAITING......................................................................................... 19
RELATION OF CIVIL DIVORCE TO BAHÁ’Í DIVORCE .......................................................................................... 20
GIVING LEGAL SANCTION TO DIVORCE ........................................................................................................... 20
INITIATION OF CIVIL DIVORCE DURING YEAR OF WAITING .......................................................................... 20
If Non-Bahá’í Partner Obtains Civil Divorce ...................................................................................................... 20
DIVORCE AGREEMENT, CHILD SUPPORT AND CUSTODY ............................................................................. 20
States Retain Exclusive Legal Jurisdiction over Divorce and Related Matters ................................................. 20
Function of Assembly Is Advisory in Regard to Divorce Agreements ................................................................ 21
Custody of Children ........................................................................................................................................... 21
Financial Support ............................................................................................................................................... 21
PARTIES OBLIGED TO OBEY CIVIL DIVORCE DECREE .................................................................................. 22
ASSEMBLY SHOULD ENCOURAGE PARTIES TO FULFILL CIVIL DIVORCE DECREE ................................... 22
If Either Party Is Lax about Obligations, Assembly Should Press for Fulfillment .............................................. 22
Wronged Party Free to Apply for Civil Enforcement .......................................................................................... 22
ASSEMBLY SHOULD NOT BE INVOLVED IN MATTERS PENDING IN CIVIL COURTS ................................... 23
GRANTING THE BAHÁ’Í DIVORCE ......................................................................................................................... 23
OBTAINING PROOF THAT CIVIL DIVORCE HAS BEEN FINALIZED ................................................................. 23
NO AUTHORITY TO WITHHOLD BAHÁ’Í DIVORCE ONCE REQUIREMENTS MET ......................................... 23
NOT WITHIN DISCRETION OF PARTIES TO EXTEND YEAR OF WAITING ..................................................... 23
NOT IN SPIRIT OF FAITH TO INTERFERE WITH CIVIL DIVORCE .................................................................... 24
DATE ON WHICH BAHÁ’Í DIVORCE SHOULD BE GRANTED ........................................................................... 24
REPORTING YEAR OF WAITING AND BAHÁ’Í DIVORCE TO NATIONAL ASSEMBLY ..................................... 24
ANNULMENT ......................................................................................................................................................... 25
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
12. DIVORCE
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
DIVORCE ABHORRED AND DISCOURAGED
God doth verily love union and concord, and abhorreth separation and divorce.
Bahá’u’lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, p. 44
At all times hath union and association been well-pleasing in the sight of God, and separation and dissension
abhorred. Hold fast unto that which God loveth and is His command unto you. He, verily, is the All-Knowing
and the All-Seeing, and He is the All-Wise Ordainer.
Bahá’u’lláh, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 526
Now the friends in America must live and conduct themselves in this way. They must strictly refrain from
divorce unless something ariseth which compelleth them to separate because of their aversion for each other,
in that case with the knowledge of the Spiritual Assembly they may decide to separate. They must then be
patient and wait one complete year. If during this year, harmony is not re-established between them, then their
divorce may be realized. It should not happen that upon the occurrence of a slight friction or displeasure
between husband and wife, the husband would think of union with some other woman, or, God forbid, the
wife also think of another husband. This is contrary to the standard of heavenly value and true chastity. The
friends of God must so live and conduct themselves, and evince such excellence of character and conduct, as
to make others astonished. The love between husband and wife must not be purely physical, nay, rather, it
must be spiritual and heavenly. These two souls should be considered as one soul. How difficult it would be to
divide a single soul! Nay, great would be the difficulty!
... the foundation of the Kingdom of God is based upon harmony and love, oneness, relationship and union,
not upon differences, especially between husband and wife. If one of these two becomes the cause of divorce,
that one will unquestionably fall into great difficulties, will become the victim of formidable calamities and
experience deep remorse.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II, no. 2308
Regarding the Bahá’í teachings on divorce. While the latter has been made permissible by Bahá’u’lláh yet
He has strongly discouraged its practice, for if not checked and seriously controlled it leads gradually to the
disruption of family life and to the disintegration of society.
Letter from Shoghi Effendi, dated November 16, 1936, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I, no. 534
There is no doubt about it that the believers in America, probably unconsciously influenced by the extremely
lax morals prevalent and the flippant attitude towards divorce which seems to be increasingly prevailing, do
not take divorce seriously enough and do not seem to grasp the fact that although Bahá'u'lláh has permitted it,
He has only permitted it as a last resort and strongly condemns it.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated December 19, 1947, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1309
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
Bahá’u’lláh, as you have mentioned, abhors divorce, and therefore the Bahá’ís should do their utmost to
preserve their marriage which is a divinely ordained institution. But, as divorce is not prohibited in the Faith,
and as it is a personal matter, the Universal House of Justice does not wish to interfere in such cases.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 4, 1978, quoted in a letter from the Universal House of
Justice, dated May 17, 1988, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Strengthening Marriage and Family Life — Ch. 11
TERMS DESCRIBING SITUATION THAT CAN LEAD TO DIVORCE
Antipathy
Irreconcilable antipathy arising between the parties to a marriage is not merely a lack of love for one’s spouse
but an antipathy which cannot be resolved. It is for the Spiritual Assembly to decide whether this condition
exists before it sets the date for the beginning of the year of waiting, and this it may do on the application of
one of the parties. It is not affected by the other party’s not wishing to apply for a divorce.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 12, 1979, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II, no. 2338
In the strict legal sense there are no “grounds” for a Bahá’í divorce. No question of misbehavior of either
party is involved and the only condition under which a Bahá’í divorce may be considered is the irreconcilable
antipathy of the parties. Thus it is not sufficient that one or both of the parties has asked that the date for the
beginning of the year of waiting be fixed; the Assembly must find the condition of irreconcilable antipathy to
exist before the date can be fixed.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 24, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Aversion
Concerning the definition of the term “aversion” in relation to Bahá’í divorce law, the Universal House of
Justice points out that there are no specific “grounds” for Bahá’í divorce such as there are in some codes of
civil law. Bahá’í law permits divorce but, as both Bahá’u’lláh and Άbdu'l-Bahá have made very clear, divorce
is abhorred. Thus, from the point of view of the individual believer he should do all he can to refrain from
divorce. Bahá’ís should be profoundly aware of the sanctity of marriage and should strive to make their
marriages an eternal bond of unity and harmony. This requires effort and sacrifice and wisdom and self-
abnegation. A Bahá’í should consider the possibility of divorce only if the situation is intolerable and he or
she has a strong aversion to being married to the other partner. This is the standard held up to the individual. It
is not a law, but an exhortation. It is a goal to which we should strive.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated November 3, 1982, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1303
Other Terms Used
It can be seen, therefore, that “aversion” is not a specific legal term that needs to be defined. Indeed a number
of other terms are used in describing the situation that can lead to divorce in Bahá’í law, such as “antipathy,”
“resentment,” “estrangement,” “impossibility of establishing harmony,” and “irreconcilability.” The texts,
however, point out that divorce is strongly condemned, should be viewed as “a last resort” when “rare and
urgent circumstances” exist, and that the partner who is the “cause of divorce” will “unquestionably” become
the “victim of formidable calamities.”
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated November 3, 1982, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1305
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
REQUIREMENTS FOR BAHÁ’Í DIVORCE
REQUEST FOR BAHÁ’Í DIVORCE
However, it is necessary that Bahá'ís who intend to divorce be aware that they must consult with their Local
or National Assembly, that basically a year of waiting must ensue before divorce can be effected, and that the
Assembly has certain responsibilities toward the couple concerned about which they will be informed through
consultation with the Assembly.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated April 16, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1317
The procedure, briefly, is that when a Spiritual Assembly receives an application for divorce its first duty is
to try to reconcile the couple. When it determines that this is not possible, it should then set the date of the
beginning of the year of waiting.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated September 11, 1986, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1320
See also:
Responsibility of Local Assembly — Ch. 12
YEAR OF WAITING
During the year the couple have the responsibility of attempting to reconcile their difference, and the
Assembly has the duty to help them and encourage them.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 3, 1982, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1304
See also:
Conditions under which Year of Waiting Not Required — Ch. 12
Purpose of Year of Waiting
It is understood that two Bahá’ís who reach the point of strain where they feel a divorce is necessary need
time to cool down and reflect, which is, of course, the purpose of the year of waiting.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 3, 1981, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Use of Terms “Year of Waiting” and “Year of Patience”
In reply to your letter of ... requesting clarification about the use of the phrases “year of waiting” and “year of
patience,” the Universal House of Justice has instructed us to say that while it is preferable to use “year of
waiting,” either phrase can be used.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 9, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Required Whether or not Partner Is Bahá’í
With regard to the question of Bahá’í divorce, the year of separation is necessary even though the non-
Bahá’í partner to the marriage is the one instituting the divorce proceedings ...
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 28, 1966, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
Required Whether or not Bahá’í when Married
As regards Bahá’í divorce as mentioned in your letter of June 12th: Bahá’ís (whether one party or both are
believers) should follow the Bahá’í law of divorce, i.e., one year of waiting, and not neglect this divinely
given law. Whether they were Bahá’ís when married or not has nothing to do with it.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated June 12, 1952, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1314
Required in Cases of Proven Adultery
There is a Tablet from Άbdu'l-Bahá which states that the year of waiting is waived in the case of an unfaithful
wife. This aspect of the Bahá’í law of divorce, however, will need elucidation and supplementary legislation
by the Universal House of Justice. Therefore, at the present time, in divorce cases such as the one you cited,
the husband must still observe the year of waiting, which involves payment of the wife’s expenses during this
period.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated June 17, 1987, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The provisions of the Tablet of Άbdu'l-Bahá regarding exemption from the year of waiting because of
infidelity applies to both husband and wife. In a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice to
an individual believer dated 28 April 1974, which is also included in the newly released compilation on the
subject of women the following is stated:
It is apparent from the Guardian’s writings that where Bahá’u’lláh has expressed a law as between a man
and a woman it applies, mutatis mutandis, between a woman and a man unless the context should make
this impossible.
This aspect of the Bahá’í law of divorce, however, will need elucidation and supplementary legislation by the
House of Justice. Therefore, at the present time, the year of waiting must be observed when adultery on the
part of either party is proven.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated February 11, 1986, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Either Party May Apply without Consent of the Other
We must point out that immediately an application is received by a Bahá’í Institution for setting the date of a
year of waiting prior to divorce, it is the duty of that Institution to examine the application completely and
impartially and do its utmost to effect a reconciliation between the parties. Either party may apply for the year
of waiting without the consent of the other.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated November 23, 1970, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Physical Separation Required to Begin
The Bahá’í law requires that the parties separate for one full year before the divorce may be realized. This
contemplates complete physical separation in the sense that they should not reside in the same dwelling.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated April 23, 1964, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The couple must realize that the year of patience cannot begin to run unless and until they are living apart,
and it is for them to decide between them which will leave the home.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 2, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH YEAR OF WAITING NOT REQUIRED
Ignorance of Law
In cases in which your Assembly has decided that the believer was ignorant of the law requiring him to have
a Bahá’í divorce before marrying another, and a civil divorce has already been obtained, your Assembly may
in its discretion excuse him and he would be regarded as in the same status as one who obtained a divorce
before becoming a Bahá’í.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 14, 1976, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Divorce Began before Enrollment as Bahá’í
You ask about the contact who wishes to declare her faith, having already initiated legal steps to divorce her
husband. As this case is already in process before her declaration she does not have to observe Bahá’í divorce
law.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 21, 1968, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Bahá’í without Administrative Rights
A Bahá’í who has lost his administrative rights is administratively expelled from the community and
therefore is not subject to the jurisdiction of the Spiritual Assembly in the matter of laws of personal status,
such as divorce, unless, of course, he is involved in such a matter through having a Bahá’í spouse in good
standing from whom the divorce is taking place. His observance of such laws is a matter of conscience and he
would not be subject to further sanctions for non-observance of Bahá’í laws during the period he is without
voting rights.
In the case you instance, therefore, where the Bahá’í without voting rights is being divorced from his non-
Bahá’í wife, the Assembly should not take jurisdiction of the matter. He is free to obtain a civil divorce and
whether or not he observes a year of waiting is a matter for his own conscience.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 6, 1982, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 207
In the case where a Bahá’í on good standing is married to a Bahá’í who has lost his or her administrative
rights, the spouse in good standing would be obliged to observe the year of waiting, except in the event that
the spouse deprived of administrative rights remarried during the year of waiting.
See also:
Marriage to New Partner during Year of Waiting — Ch. 12
Improperly Contracted Marriage or Legal Annulment
When reinstatement [of administrative rights] calls for a divorce or annulment of an improperly contracted
marriage, no year of waiting is necessary because Bahá’í divorce is not involved. The purpose of the year of
waiting is to attempt the saving of a marital relationship which was originally accepted as valid in the eyes of
Bahá’ís, and is now in jeopardy.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 27, 1969, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1332
If a Bahá’í legally annuls his marriage through the civil courts, he is not obligated to observe a year of waiting.
See also:
Correcting a Known Violation — Ch. 11
Annulment — Ch. 12
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
DIVORCE IN MARRIAGES VALID UNDER BAHÁ’Í LAW BUT NOT CIVIL LAW
As noted in the marriage chapter, there may be cases in which a marriage is considered valid under Bahá’í
law but not under civil law. Should a couple involved in such a marriage seek divorce, a year of waiting would
still be required. If a civil divorce is not possible because the marriage itself was not civilly recognized, the
Bahá’í divorce may be granted without a civil divorce upon completion of the year of waiting, provided there
has been no reconciliation.
RESPONSIBILITY OF LOCAL ASSEMBLY
When an application for divorce is made to a Spiritual Assembly its first thought and action should be to
reconcile the couple and to ensure that they know the Bahá’í teachings on the matter. God willing, the
Assembly will be successful and no year of waiting need be started.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated November 3, 1982, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1304
See also:
Strengthening Marriage and Family Life — Ch. 11
OBLIGED TO CONSIDER APPLICATION FOR YEAR OF WAITING
An Assembly is obliged to consider an application for a year of waiting from either party to a marriage,
whether the other party wants the divorce or not.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 28, 1985, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1327
SHOULD NOT INTERVENE WITHOUT COMPELLING REASONS
There should be no intervention into the marital affairs of individuals in a Bahá’í community unless and until
the parties themselves bring a problem to the Assembly. Prior to that it is not the business of the Assembly to
counsel the parties.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 22, 1968, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1329
The Universal House of Justice later explained that the above passage from its March 22, 1968, letter:
[A]pplies when neither party has brought any problem to the Assembly. In such circumstances, unless
there are reasons which would compel the Assembly to intervene, for example, where there is behavior
prejudicial to the vital interests of the Faith, certainly no effort should be made on the part of the
Assembly to pry into the marital affairs of any couple until the parties, or one of the parties, themselves
refer to the Assembly.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 17, 1988, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
Criminal Offenses — Ch. 10
INITIAL MEETING WHEN PARTY(IES) SEEK YEAR OF WAITING
When a couple or a partner of a marriage approaches an Assembly or its representative(s) with the intention
of starting a year of waiting, the Bahá’í teachings on divorce should be reviewed with the party(ies) and the
understanding made clear that a year of waiting is an application for Bahá'í divorce and not just a request for
marital assistance. It may be pointed out that divorce is condemned and that certain conditions must exist to
justify the extreme measure of dissolving the marriage.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
Assemblies are advised to ask any party(ies) seeking a year of waiting to agree in writing not to compel the
Assembly to testify or produce records in any legal proceeding regarding the matter.
See also:
Representatives, Task Forces and Other Appointees — Ch. 3
Consultation with Others — Ch. 4
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
Duty to Investigate and Try to Reconcile Couple — May Suggest Temporary Separation — Ch. 12
Meet Separately with Each Party
To facilitate screening, regardless of whether abuse is suspected, the Assembly or its representative(s) should
arrange initially to meet with the parties separately, as each party will probably be more forthcoming in the
absence of the other.
Screen for Domestic Abuse
Due to the high rates of domestic violence, the Assembly or its representative(s) should routinely, without
making assumptions, screen each case for signs of abuse, as the presence of abuse will change the way
interviews with the parties involved are conducted and will affect other recommendations or decisions the
Assembly may have to make.
Should the Assembly or its representative(s) suspect or determine that abuse is a factor in a divorce case,
they should immediately refer to Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to
Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies on how to proceed.
See also:
Legal Aspects of Functioning — Ch. 4
Criminal Offenses — Ch. 10
And in Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies
Confidentiality of Utmost Importance
It is of utmost importance that all information divulged during the interview be maintained in the strictest
confidence, even from each partner. Failure to do so could have serious consequences for the parties and
families involved, the Assembly and the community.
See also:
Consultation with Others — Ch. 4
AFTER INITIAL MEETING
After the initial meeting, the Assembly or its representative(s) may meet with the couple periodically, either
separately or together, depending on the outcome of the initial screening and the level of cooperation and
needs of the parties.
DUTY TO INVESTIGATE AND TRY TO RECONCILE COUPLE
Bahá’ís who apply for divorce should be so counselled and left in no doubt that it is the duty of the Spiritual
Assembly concerned, according to the emphatic command of our scriptures, to do everything possible to
bring about a reconciliation.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 3, 1981, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
Mr. ... ’s assumption that the date ... when he appeared before the Local Spiritual Assembly of ... is the
effective date of the beginning of the year of patience is incorrect. As we said in our letter ... the beginning of
the year of patience should not be set without first investigating the matter and making an effort at
reconciliation.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 23, 1966, to a National Spiritual Assembly
It is the Assembly’s responsibility to conduct its own investigation and come to a decision. Assemblies are, of
course, discouraged from probing unnecessarily into details of personal lives and the examination of a divorce
problem should not go beyond what is necessary to ascertain whether or not such antipathy does, indeed,
exist.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 30, 1983, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1319
The Local Assembly has the duty to try to reconcile the couple, even if the feelings and attitudes of either of
the parties do not make reconciliation possible. It is important that the Assembly or its representative(s) try to
meet with each party to explore the possibility of reconciliation. In cases of domestic violence, the Assembly
should exercise extreme caution and meeting with both parties together may not be possible or advisable. If
one of the parties is not a Bahá’í, the Assembly may extend an invitation for the person to meet with the
Assembly or its representative(s), but should not pursue the issue if he or she seems to have no desire to
meet.
See also:
General Principles — Terms Describing Situation that Can Lead to Divorce — Ch. 12
And in Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies
May Suggest Counseling
Neither you nor your husband should hesitate to continue consulting professional marriage counsellors,
individually and together if possible, and also to take advantage of the supportive counselling which can come
from wise and mature friends. Non-Bahá'í counselling can be useful but it is usually necessary to temper it
with Bahá'í insight.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 17, 1979, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. II, no. 2339
The House of Justice advises you to continue the strenuous efforts you are making to overcome the
difficulties in your marriage. It is pleased to note that you and your husband have turned to the Local Spiritual
Assembly for guidance and have sought help from a Bahá'í who is a marriage counsellor. Such endeavours,
when combined with a strong and determined effort, improve greatly the prospects that your marriage can be
maintained. However, it must also be borne in mind that the fact that Bahá'u'lláh has permitted divorce is, no
doubt, an indication that in certain circumstances it is unavoidable. If your earnest efforts to maintain your
marriage do not yield the desired result, you should not be distraught.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 28, 1989, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. II, no. 2345
The Assembly may also consider whether the couple would benefit from seeing a marriage counselor. In
addition, individual counseling may also be of great value, as problems in marriages often involve underlying
issues of the individual parties that have little or nothing to do with the marital relationship. Even if only one
party is amenable to counseling, changes engendered by successful counseling for one party may improve
the marital relationship.
The Assembly should refrain from making referrals to specific counselors or therapists. While it may be
desirable to have a counselor who is a Bahá'í, there is no way for the Assembly to determine the quality of
service that he or she may provide to a particular individual or couple.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
Although the Assembly may suggest that the couple would benefit from counseling, it cannot require that the
couple obtain such assistance, if they choose not to do so.
See also:
Resource Files — Counseling Resources — Ch. 4
Change Evolutionary and Inevitable — Couple or Either Party May Seek Assistance for Marital Difficulties — Ch. 11
May Suggest Seeking Medical Advice
Marriage problems are often very involved and subtle, and we Bahá'ís, being enlightened and progressive
people, should not hesitate, if it seems necessary or desirable, to turn to science for help in such matters. If
you and your husband talked over your problems - together or separately - with a good physician you might
find that you can cure your own husband, or at least try to do so. It is a great pity that two believers, united in
this glorious Cause, and blessed with a family, should not be able to live together really harmoniously, and he
feels you should take constructive action and not allow the situation to get worse. When the shadow of
separation hangs over a husband and wife they should leave no stone unturned in their effort to avert its
becoming a reality. He urges both to devote more of your time to teaching the Cause and to pray together that
Bahá'u'lláh may give you a real and lasting love for each other.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 5, 1949, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II,
no. 2329
May Suggest Temporary Separation
Rather than setting the date of the year of waiting immediately, it may be wise to give the parties a chance to
reflect on the Assembly’s guidance. In some cases, depending on the circumstances, a temporary period of
separation may be more appropriate than the initiation of the year of waiting. The Assembly may suggest a
one to two month period of separation, after which, if there is no reconciliation and either or both parties still
wish to divorce, it may backdate the year of waiting to the date this trial separation occurred.
Establishing Year of Waiting Should Not Be Automatic
Establishing a year of waiting should not be an automatic action simply because it has been requested.
The Assembly may establish a year of waiting without knowing the reasons for the separation if the parties do
not wish to discuss them, although it would be preferable for them to be forthcoming with the Assembly.
SETTING DATE FOR BEGINNING OF YEAR OF WAITING
After meeting with the party(ies) involved, the Assembly or its representative(s) may conclude that there is no
alternative but to set the date for a year of waiting. If such is the conclusion of the Assembly’s
representative(s), they should make the appropriate recommendation to the Assembly along with whatever
documentation they have to support it.
The date of the beginning of the year of waiting cannot be prior to the date the most recent physical
separation occurred with the intent of divorce (sometimes couples undergo several separations before finally
settling on a decision). Physical separation in this case includes cessation of sexual relations, so a couple
may have ceased cohabiting but continued to have sexual relations, and the year cannot begin until this
activity ceases. Once the beginning of the year of waiting has been established, the Assembly should confirm
this date in writing with both parties.
If no reconciliation is possible, and actual repugnance is found to exist between the parties, then the
Assembly may record a date which is the beginning of the year of waiting.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 24, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
It is for the Local Spiritual Assembly, or the National Spiritual Assembly, as the case may be, to fix the date
for the beginning of the year of patience which, in any event, cannot be earlier than the date when the parties
last separated with the intention of divorce. Thus the date of the beginning of the year of patience normally
commences when one of the parties notifies the Assembly that they have separated with the intention of
divorce. However, the Assembly may establish the beginning of the year of patience on a prior date provided
it is satisfied such prior date reflects the actual date of separation and there is a good reason for so doing.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 26, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1322
When it determines that this [reconciliation] is not possible, it should then set the date of the beginning of the
year of waiting. That could be the date on which the Assembly reaches the decision, unless the couple are still
living together, in which case it must be postponed until they separate.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 11, 1986, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1320
However, if the Assembly finds that it is unable to persuade the party concerned to withdraw the application
for divorce, it must conclude that, from its point of view, there appears to be an irreconcilable antipathy, and it
has no alternative to setting the date for the beginning of the year of waiting. During the year the couple have
the responsibility of attempting to reconcile their differences, and the Assembly has the duty to help them and
encourage them. But if the year of waiting comes to an end without reconciliation the Bahá’í divorce must be
granted as at the date of the granting of the civil divorce if this has not already taken place.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated November 3, 1982, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1304
Back-dating Year of Waiting
The Spiritual Assembly may, if it is satisfied that there is sufficient reason for doing so, establish the date for
the beginning of the year of waiting retroactively. Whether established retroactively or not the date set for the
beginning of the year of waiting cannot be prior to the last date when the couple actually separated for the
purpose of obtaining a divorce.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 26, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Cannot Shorten Period of Waiting
It is not possible to shorten the period of waiting as this is a provision of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 18, 1976, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1326
If one party marries a new partner during the year then the year of waiting is automatically terminated.
However, a Bahá'í may not remarry during the year of waiting without jeopardizing his or her administrative
rights.
See also:
Actions that Void Year of Waiting — Ch. 12
ROLE OF ASSEMBLY DURING YEAR OF WAITING
It is necessary that Bahá’ís who intend to divorce be aware that they must consult with their Local or National
Assembly, that basically a year of waiting must ensue before divorce can be effected, and that the Assembly
has certain responsibilities toward the couple concerned about which they will be informed through
consultation with the Assembly.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated April 16, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1317
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
When a Spiritual Assembly receives an application for Bahá’í divorce its first duty is to try to reconcile the
couple. If this is not possible, and the couple separates, further efforts at reconciliation should be made during
the ensuing year.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 30, 1983, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1319
In the opening paragraphs of your letter you speak of your Committee adjudicating upon divorce settlements,
and the House of Justice feels that the use of the word “adjudicate” may lie at the root of some of the
problems that the committee is facing. In a country ... where divorce is subject to the civil law, the function of
the Assembly (or its committee) in dealing with a divorce case is not primarily a matter of adjudication. Its
first duty is to try to reconcile the couple. If it finds that it is unable to do this, it then sets the beginning of the
year of waiting and continues, as circumstances permit and wisdom dictates, throughout the running of the
year, its attempts at reconciliation.
One of the duties of the committee is to see that the requirements of Bahá’í Law governing the year of waiting
are not violated –– that is to say, that the two parties live apart and that proper provisions are made for the
financial support of the wife and children. As you will see from the enclosures, this is a matter that needs to
be considered for each case on its own merits. If the matter can be amicably arranged between the parties,
well and good. If not, the basic principle of Bahá’í Law is that the husband is responsible for the support of
his wife and children so long as they are married; that is until the granting of the divorce. In a particular case,
however, it may have been the wife who was the bread-winner of the family or both the husband and wife
may have been earning income. The Assembly should not ignore such specific situations and change them
merely because a year of waiting is running. The application of these principles should not be in the form of
an adjudication which the Assembly will require the couple to accept, but as a basis for an arrangement which
the couple will amicably agree to and present to the Court for endorsement. If the Assembly is unable to get
the couple to agree, it should leave the matter to the civil court.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 24, 1983, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1323
Even when the Assembly finds it necessary to establish a year of waiting, it will wish to consult periodically
with the parties to do all it can to encourage and assist in their reconciliation or at least promote a harmonious
outcome for their divorce. It should bear in mind that the civil divorce system is inherently adversarial and that
whatever the Assembly can do to assist the parties to come to a firm agreement on matters of property
distribution, child custody and support prior to engaging civil action is likely to mitigate the divisive effects of
the civil divorce process.
The Assembly may wish to remind the parties to bear in mind, if they select attorneys to settle their affairs,
that there are attorneys who hold views and advocate practices that are at odds with the Bahá'í teachings and
others whose views are more in keeping and who will make a greater effort to seek resolution for the common
good rather than the advantage of one party over the other. Finding attorneys or legal aid assistance with
views more in keeping with the spirit of Bahá'í teachings may greatly assist in the general outcome and help
protect any children involved, as well as the Bahá'í community, from the traumatic effects of a more
adversarial approach.
Should either or both parties prove uncooperative, the Assembly should not allow the matter to consume an
undue amount of its time. In such cases, the parties should be advised to resolve matters through the civil
courts.
See also:
Representatives, Task Forces and Other Appointees — Ch. 3
Legal Aspects of Functioning — Ch. 4
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
JURISDICTION
Jurisdiction to decide on matters of personal status rests with the Assembly in whose area the individual
believer currently resides. Thus the Local Spiritual Assembly of the place where Mr. ... now resides, ... has
jurisdiction to entertain an application for a Bahá’í divorce and to fix the date for the beginning of the year of
waiting.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 14, 1978, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Applications from Believers Living outside Assembly’s Jurisdiction
Bahá’ís who do not live under the jurisdiction of a Local Spiritual Assembly are free to seek the assistance of
any neighboring Assembly. Once the year of waiting has begun, however, jurisdiction for the year of waiting
should be retained by the Assembly that established it.
Relocation of Parties
If one partner moves during the year of waiting, it is preferable for the Assembly that initially counseled the
couple to retain responsibility for the case.
Preferable to Maintain Reasonable Proximity to Each Other During Year
If both parties relocate but remain close to the original Assembly, that Assembly would retain jurisdiction. It is
preferable that the parties stay close enough to each other during the year of waiting to create greater
opportunities for consultation and to increase the possibility of reconciliation. If both should relocate out of the
area, the Assembly should contact the National Spiritual Assembly which will reassign jurisdiction for the year
of waiting to another Local Assembly in proximity to one of the parties.
Transfer of Jurisdiction
From time to time, a case arises where, for compelling reasons, it may be deemed advisable for an individual
to take a specific problem to a Local Spiritual Assembly other than his or her own. In such instances, the
National Spiritual Assembly has permitted jurisdiction to be transferred on the condition that the believer has
his or her Local Assembly’s permission to go to another Assembly and the other Assembly is willing to take on
the case.
Sometimes a believer may have a valid reason for not wishing to disclose to his or her own Assembly why a
transfer of jurisdiction is being requested. If the Assembly refuses to transfer jurisdiction for the case, the
believer may appeal to the National Spiritual Assembly. In that event, both the believer and the Assembly
refusing transfer will be expected to explain their reasons to the National Assembly, which will then determine
if a jurisdiction change should be permitted.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF PARTIES
ACTIVELY SEEK RECONCILIATION
It is for you, and for Mr. …. as well, to ponder carefully over the spiritual implications which any act of
divorce on either part would involve, and strengthened by the power of faith and confident in the blessing
which strict adherence to the principles and laws of Bahá’u’lláh is bound to confer upon every one of His
faithful followers, to make a fresh resolve to solve your common difficulties and to restore the harmony,
peace and happiness of your family life.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated September 11, 1938, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations,
Vol. II, no. 2314
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
During the year the couple have the responsibility of attempting to reconcile their difference.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 3, 1982, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1304
It is always the hope that, during the year of patience, affection between the couple will recur and that divorce
will not be necessary.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 15, 1973, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1318
CONSIDER EFFECT OF DIVORCE ON CHILDREN, FAMILY, AND
COMMUNITY
Regarding the Bahá'í teachings on divorce. While the latter has been made permissible by Bahá'u'lláh yet he
has strongly discouraged its practice, for if not checked and seriously controlled it leads gradually to the
disruption of family life and to the disintegration of society.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated November 16, 1936, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations,
Vol. I, no. 534
He was very sorry to hear that you and your husband are still so unhappy together. It is always a source of
sorrow in life when married people cannot get on well together, but the Guardian feels that you and your
husband, in contemplating divorce, should think of the future of your children and how this major step on
your part will influence their lives and happiness.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, November 16, 1945, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I,
no. 541
The presence of children, as a factor in divorce, cannot be ignored, for surely it places an even greater weight
of moral responsibility on the man and wife in considering such a step. Divorce under such circumstances no
longer just concerns them and their desires and feelings but also concerns the children's entire future and their
own attitude towards marriage.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated December 19, 1947, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations,
Vol. II, no. 2327
He feels that you should by all means make every effort to hold your marriage together, especially for the
sake of your children, who, like all children of divorced parents, cannot but suffer from conflicting loyalties,
for they are deprived of the blessing of a father and mother in one home, to look after their interests and love
them jointly.
Now that you realize that your husband is ill, you should be able to reconcile yourself to the difficulties you
have faced with him emotionally, and not take an unforgiving attitude, however much you may suffer.
We know that Bahá'u'lláh has very strongly frowned upon divorce; and it is really incumbent upon the Bahá'ís
to make almost a superhuman effort not to allow a Bahá'í marriage to be dissolved.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 6, 1953, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II,
no. 2331
See also:
Strengthening Marriage and Family Life — Ch. 11
CONTINUE FINANCIAL SUPPORT DURING YEAR OF WAITING
The House of Justice views it as a basic principle of Bahá’í law that the husband is responsible for the
support of his wife and children as long as they are married, i.e., until the granting of a divorce. There may be
particular circumstances in which the wife is the bread-winner of the family, or both husband and wife are
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
earning income; such situations should not be ignored, or changed merely because the couple is in a year of
waiting.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 24, 1983, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1323
The House of Justice wrote to another National Assembly on 5 April 1970 as follows:
The only provision of Bahá’í law regarding the support of the wife is that which makes the husband
responsible for her support during the year of waiting. This does not mean, however, that further support
is prohibited; all such matters will require legislation in the future. At the present time it is the
responsibility of the Assembly to arrange an amicable and just financial settlement between the couple,
and any such arrangement must, obviously, take into consideration the financial situation of both parties
and their relative responsibilities.
While it is obvious that the Assembly should encourage the husband to honour his Bahá’í responsibilities in
paying the required support money, matters of support may be covered by the civil courts when a civil divorce
is applied for and, in such a case, the wife would, of course, be able to invoke whatever civil remedy is
available.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated February 6, 1978, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1337
See also:
Role of Assembly during Year of Waiting — Ch. 12
Divorce Agreement, Child Support and Custody — Ch. 12
ONE PARTY CANNOT PETITION TO TERMINATE YEAR OF WAITING
One party to a divorce, acting alone, cannot petition for a termination of the year of waiting.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 1, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Setting Date for Beginning of Year of Waiting — Cannot Shorten Period of Waiting — Ch. 12
DATING DURING YEAR OF WAITING CONTRARY TO SPIRIT OF THE
TEACHINGS
[D]ating in the spirit of courtship is outside the bounds of Bahá’í propriety, even where the inter-personal
relationship of the couple is not blatant or flagrant, casting reflections upon the strict morality required of
Bahá’ís. The Bahá’í should be advised to break off the acquaintanceship should it appear to progress beyond
friendship ...
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 6, 1981, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1328
It is always the hope that, during the year of patience, affection between the couple will recur and that divorce
will not be necessary. Therefore, although normal social relationships between each of the partners and
members of both sexes are permissible, it is quite contrary to the spirit of the teachings for either party to be
courting a new partner during the year of waiting. This should be made clear to the couple if necessary and
they should be exhorted to conduct themselves as Bahá’ís. However, this is not an area in which the Assembly
should resort to sanctions if either or both of the pair disregard this principle. Naturally, if one of the parties
conducts himself or herself in a way that is blatantly or flagrantly immoral the matter should be handled as
any other similar case would be.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated February 15, 1973, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1318
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
REFRAIN FROM DATING WHILE DIVORCE PENDING
Concerning the permissibility of dating once the year of waiting is completed, but before the civil divorce has
been granted, the Universal House of Justice has written:
It is important to note that while more than one calendar year may have elapsed since the year of waiting
was established by the Local Spiritual Assembly, it is contrary to Bahá'í principles for the Bahá'í law to be
implemented in a way that would contravene the provisions of the civil law; thus, the granting of a Bahá'í
divorce is held in suspense following the end of the year of waiting until a civil divorce is obtained. In
answer to your specific question, it would not be in keeping with the spirit of Bahá'í law for either of the
parties to be dating, in the sense of courtship, while the divorce is still pending.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated November 9, 1995, to an individual believer.
Regardless of whether the end of the year of waiting or the civil divorce occurs first, Bahá'í parties are
expected to observe behavior appropriate to a year of waiting until the Bahá'í divorce is granted, since that
cannot take place until both the civil divorce is final and the year of waiting has concluded.
Not Appropriate to Look for New Marriage Partner
The year of waiting is not the time for either of the parties to be looking for a new marriage partner. Their
efforts should be directed to the preservation of the existing marriage.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 12, 1979, to an individual believer
Should Not Announce New Marriage Plans
It is not within the spirit of Bahá’í law for one to become involved in the announcement of new marriage
plans while he or she is still legally married to another. There is no objection to urging the friends not to go so
far as to seek consent of parents before the divorce becomes final in all respects.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 17, 1971, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1334
The above guidance also applies in cases where the year of waiting has been completed but the civil divorce
has yet to be granted. Since the parties are still legally married, they are expected to behave accordingly.
Believers Not Free to Remarry before Bahá'í Divorce Is Granted
Even though a Bahá’í has obtained a civil divorce, under Bahá’í law he cannot be regarded as divorced
unless he has also obtained a Bahá’í divorce, therefore he is not free to marry. Should he attempt to marry and
in the process violate the Bahá’í law governing marriage, he is, of course, subject to sanction.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 13, 1975, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The believer will be subject to sanctions if he should marry a third party within the year of patience, not only
because it is a violation of the year of patience itself, but also because even though a civil divorce has been
granted, the Bahá’í divorce cannot be granted until the end of the year of patience. For this reason no marriage
is possible during the running of the year of patience unless the parties to the divorce remarry each other in a
civil ceremony.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 29, 1966, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 182
In cases in which your Assembly has decided that the believer was ignorant of the law requiring him to have
a Bahá’í divorce before marrying another, and a civil divorce has already been obtained, your Assembly may
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
in its discretion excuse him and he would be regarded as in the same status as one who obtained a divorce
before becoming a Bahá’í.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated March 14, 1976, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Marriage to New Partner during Year of Waiting — Ch. 12
RECONCILIATION
Sexual relations or cohabitation between the spousal parties at any time during the year of waiting is viewed
as reconciliation even when either or both parties have no intention of reconciling. If this occurs, a new year of
waiting must be initiated.
See also:
Actions that Void Year of Waiting — Ch. 12
BEFORE BOTH CIVIL DIVORCE AND END OF YEAR OF WAITING
If, as a result of efforts at reconciliation, a normal marital relationship is resumed between the parties to a
divorce, the whole process of divorce is considered to be abandoned. In case the parties later desire to divorce
they must apply again for Bahá’í divorce and the year of waiting must be commenced anew.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 5, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly
BEFORE CIVIL DIVORCE BUT AFTER END OF YEAR OF WAITING
As far as Bahá’í law is concerned, divorce is automatically granted at the end of the year of waiting if
reconciliation has not taken place, but since in the United States Bahá’í divorce cannot become effective until
the civil divorce is granted, should the couple be reconciled during the period between the end of the year of
waiting and the time when the civil divorce would become effective, there would be no need for the parties to
remarry according to Bahá’í law.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 1, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Refrain from Dating While Divorce Pending — Ch. 12
AFTER CIVIL DIVORCE BUT BEFORE END OF YEAR OF WAITING
In this case, although the parties are not divorced under Bahá'í law, they are viewed as divorced under civil
law. If they reconcile following the civil divorce, before the expiration of the year of waiting and the granting of
the Bahá'í divorce, they must have a civil marriage ceremony within a reasonable period of time to legalize
their union under civil law, or their administrative rights may be placed in jeopardy.
AFTER BOTH CIVIL DIVORCE AND END OF YEAR OF WAITING
Since the Bahá'í divorce becomes final on the date of either the civil divorce or the end of the year of waiting,
whichever occurs last, couples who reconcile following both must remarry and meet all requirements of both
Bahá'í and civil law as though they had never been married.
See also:
Ch. 11, Marriage and Family Life
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
ACTIONS THAT VOID YEAR OF WAITING
SEXUAL RELATIONS BETWEEN SPOUSES
If intercourse between husband and wife takes place during the year of waiting, a new year must be set by the
Spiritual Assembly.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated February 12, 1980, to a National Spiritual Assembly
SHARING A COMMON RESIDENCE
Regarding the question of voiding the year of waiting should a couple share a common residence for one or
two nights when the residence belongs to a third party, the House of Justice does not wish to make a ruling on
such a general basis. In the case you mention involving temporary residence in the home of the parents of one
of the parties who are in a year of waiting, the House of Justice suggests you try to verify whether or not the
purpose of the year of waiting has been preserved and if satisfied this is so, make your decision accordingly.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 2, 1981, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The parties to a divorce must live apart in separate residence during the year of waiting. Any cohabitation of
the parties stops the running of the year of waiting. If thereafter a divorce is desired a new date for the
beginning of a new year of waiting must be set by the Assembly.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated June 20, 1977, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1325
See also:
Year of Waiting — Physical Separation Required to Begin — Ch. 12
MARRIAGE TO NEW PARTNER DURING YEAR OF WAITING
When one of the parties to a Bahá’í marriage loses his/her administrative rights by remarrying during the
year of waiting, which is in violation of the Bahá’í law of marriage, the other party is released from the need
to complete the year of waiting.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 28, 1989, to a National Spiritual Assembly
We have your letter ... asking about the termination of the year of waiting in the event of the remarriage of
the non-Bahá’í partner following a civil divorce. The need to observe the year of waiting is terminated by the
marriage of the non-Bahá’í partner in such cases.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 20, 1973, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Violation of Bahá'í Marriage Law — Ch. 11
Refrain from Dating While Divorce Pending — Ch. 12
VIOLATIONS THAT DO NOT VOID YEAR OF WAITING
Violations of Bahá’í moral laws and standards during the year of waiting, other than violation of the marriage
law, do not void the year of waiting. Such violations as child abuse, domestic violence, infidelity in the
marriage, and sexual relations with others than the spouse during the year of waiting do not relieve either
party of the need to observe the year of waiting and should be handled by the Assembly as separate issues.
See also:
Behaviors Subject to Administrative Sanctions — Ch. 10
Initial Meeting when Party(ies) Seek Year of Waiting — Screen for Domestic Abuse — Ch. 12
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
RELATION OF CIVIL DIVORCE TO BAHÁ’Í DIVORCE
GIVING LEGAL SANCTION TO DIVORCE
It should be pointed out that civil suit for divorce and Bahá’í divorce are two entirely different matters. ...
course to the civil authority is only for the purpose of giving legal sanction to the divorce.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 18, 1973
INITIATION OF CIVIL DIVORCE DURING YEAR OF WAITING
It is permissible, when necessary, to initiate civil divorce proceedings before the ending of the year of
waiting. Obviously it is much more in the spirit of Bahá’í law for a believer to approach the Spiritual
Assembly before initiating any civil proceedings, but if he does the reverse this is not a sanctionable offense.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated September 20, 1973, to a National Spiritual Assembly
There is no Bahá’í law requiring the removal of voting rights for obtaining a civil divorce before the end of
the year of waiting. It is, of course, preferred that civil divorce action not be instituted or completed before the
end of the year unless there are special circumstances justifying such action.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 20, 1974, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1331
In answer to your third question regarding the initiation of civil proceedings during the year of patience, there
is no objection to either party doing this so that the waiting period required by Bahá’í Law runs concurrently
with that required by civil law. As indicated in the enclosed correspondence, however, the Bahá’í divorce does
not become effective until the period of waiting has been terminated.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 6, 1969, to a National Spiritual Assembly
[I]t is more within the spirit of Bahá’í Law for Bahá’ís to postpone the initiation of civil proceedings, (if the
law of the country requires a civil divorce) until the end of the year of waiting. However, if such
postponement gives rise to inequity or to a legal prejudice against the possibility of a civil divorce, it is of
course, permissible for the civil proceedings to be initiated during the year of waiting.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 20, 1977, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1325
If Non-Bahá’í Partner Obtains Civil Divorce
If, as in the case cited, a civil divorce is granted to a non-Bahá’í partner before the end of the year of patience,
a Bahá’í divorce cannot be granted until the end of that year. It has been known for a couple to obtain a civil
divorce in this way and then become reconciled before the ending of the year, when they then had a civil
marriage; from the Bahá’í point of view they had never been divorced.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 23, 1966, to a National Spiritual Assembly
DIVORCE AGREEMENT, CHILD SUPPORT AND CUSTODY
States Retain Exclusive Legal Jurisdiction over Divorce and Related Matters
While all states in the United States have authorized Local Spiritual Assemblies (and institutions of other
religions) to conduct marriages on their behalf, the states retain exclusive jurisdiction over divorce and related
matters, such as child custody and support and property and financial settlements.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
Immigrant believers, especially from countries such as Iran where religious authorities have final jurisdiction
over marriage and divorce, may be unaware that jurisdiction for child custody, division of property and
financial support is governed by civil law in the United States.
See also:
Jurisdiction — Ch. 12
Function of Assembly Is Advisory in Regard to Divorce Agreements
In general ... a Bahá’í couple ... who are obtaining a divorce must, in addition to the Bahá’í divorce, obtain a
civil divorce, and the civil divorce decree will usually cover all such matters as division of property, provision
of support and custody of children. The function of the Spiritual Assembly in such ancillary aspects of the
divorce is thus advisory rather than judicatory. In order to prevent, if possible, dispute between Bahá’ís in
front of the law courts, the Assembly should attempt to bring the couple to an amicable arrangement about all
such questions, which can then be submitted to the court for its endorsement. If the efforts of the Assembly
are of no avail, then the matter must be left to the civil court to decide.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 13, 1983, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1335
Custody of Children
2.1 It is preferable that the couple amicably agree on the custody of the children and submit their agreement
to the Assembly for endorsement. Normally in the case of very young children custody is given to the mother
unless there are compelling reasons which make this inadvisable.
2.2 Regardless of which parent is given custody, the children should be so educated that they may develop a
proper Bahá'í attitude towards, and due regard for, both parents. Fair and practical arrangements should be
made to protect the rights of the parent not having custody to associate with the children and spend time with
them.
2.3 Usually custody arrangements continue until the child comes of age unless, of course, new circumstances
transpire during this period which call for a review of the arrangements.
Universal House of Justice, dated January 5, 1983, “Considerations Affecting Custody of Children and Provision of Financial Support
in Cases Not Adjudicated in Civil Law”, a summary, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1336
Financial Support
Parties to a civil divorce action are free to raise the question of alimony in the civil action in any way they
like. However, it is preferable for the parties to settle their financial affairs privately prior to the civil action.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated April 26, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly
While it is obvious that the Assembly should encourage the husband to honor his Bahá’í responsibilities in
paying the required support money, matters of support may be covered by the civil courts when a civil divorce
is applied for and, in such a case, the wife would, of course, be able to invoke whatever civil remedy is
available.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated February 6, 1978, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1337
In the case of ... and … you state that there is unlikely to be a civil judgment covering the question of
financial support of the wife by the husband following the divorce. The House of Justice states that there is no
general requirement in Bahá’í law for a husband to continue to support his former wife beyond the ending of
the year of waiting and the granting of the divorce. Therefore, in the absence of a ruling by the civil court or
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
of an agreement between the couple registered with the Spiritual Assembly, there is nothing further for your
Assembly to do in this case.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 13, 1983, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1335
Sometimes a couple or one of the parties asks the Local Spiritual Assembly to give advice on child custody
and support or the financial settlement. Ideally the Assembly would help the parties reach an agreement
before the case is taken to court.
The Assembly should take into consideration the degree to which the parties are able to cooperate with each
other and their willingness to accept the Assembly’s advice. Many Assemblies spend time consulting on such
questions only to find that one or both of the parties are unwilling to accept its advice. When this happens,
precious time is wasted and the energies of the Assembly are drained.
If a Local Assembly consults with one or both of the parties to a divorce on matters pertaining to the divorce
settlement, the Assembly should be certain to point out that (1) its role is advisory, (2) ideally the Assembly’s
advice would be written into the civil divorce decree, and (3) if either party finds the Assembly’s advice
unsatisfactory, they should seek resolution through civil courts.
Since an Assembly’s role in divorce matters is purely advisory, if one or both of the parties agree to obey the
Assembly’s advice and then fail to do so, sanctions cannot be imposed.
If, after the couple comes to an agreement with the aid of the Assembly, either party seeks a result in court
different from that which was agreed upon, the Assembly should withdraw from the case entirely and inform
the parties.
See also:
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Agreement Not to Compel Testimony — Ch. 4
PARTIES OBLIGED TO OBEY CIVIL DIVORCE DECREE
Whatever the court decides, however, regarding provisions for support of the children, it is binding upon
both parties, and, as Bahá’ís they will obey the decree of the civil court regardless of where they may be
domiciled in the future.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 30, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly
ASSEMBLY SHOULD ENCOURAGE PARTIES TO FULFILL CIVIL DIVORCE
DECREE
If Either Party Is Lax about Obligations, Assembly Should Press for Fulfillment
Once the divorce decree with its related provisions has been handed down by the court, it is the obligation of
both parties, as good Bahá’ís, to obey it and, if either is lax in so doing, the Assembly should advise him or
her about his or her duties and press for their fulfillment.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 13, 1983, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1335
Wronged Party Free to Apply for Civil Enforcement
The wronged party, however, should at the same time be left free to apply to the civil authorities for the
enforcement of the decision. Unfortunately such enforcement is notoriously difficult, especially when the
parties subsequently reside in different countries. It is here that the action of the Spiritual Assembly,
reinforcing the decision of the civil courts, can often be of help. Except in circumstances of unusual gravity or
cases where the responsible party fails to obey a court decision to provide support for the children an
Assembly should not contemplate imposing sanctions for lack of compliance in these matters. Actual
enforcement should normally be left to the action of the civil courts.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 13, 1983, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1335
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
ASSEMBLY SHOULD NOT BE INVOLVED IN MATTERS PENDING IN CIVIL
COURTS
Since custody of the children is already before the civil courts we feel you should not become involved in it.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 13, 1971, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Legal Aspects of Functioning — Ch. 4
GRANTING THE BAHÁ’Í DIVORCE
You should make it clear that a Bahá’í Divorce cannot be granted prior to the granting of a final divorce
decree in the civil action nor before the expiration of the year of patience.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated June 5, 1966, to a National Spiritual Assembly
OBTAINING PROOF THAT CIVIL DIVORCE HAS BEEN FINALIZED
Before the Bahá'í divorce is granted, the parties should provide proof to the Local Assembly that the civil
divorce has been finalized, such as a copy of the civil divorce decree or a letter from the court that includes
the date of the final divorce decree. Some divorce decrees are “sealed” and thus are not a public document. It
is important that the Local Spiritual Assembly treat these documents confidentially. It is not necessary to
include a copy of the proof of civil divorce when reporting the Bahá’í divorce to the National Assembly.
NO AUTHORITY TO WITHHOLD BAHÁ’Í DIVORCE ONCE REQUIREMENTS
MET
During the ensuing year,” the Universal House of Justice has explained, “it is highly desirable that further
efforts at reconciliation should be made, but if no reconciliation is attained, the divorce may be realized. The
Assembly has no authority to withhold the divorce on the ground that one party has made no real effort
toward reconciliation.”
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 24, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly
NOT WITHIN DISCRETION OF PARTIES TO EXTEND YEAR OF WAITING
It is not within the discretion of the parties to a Bahá’í divorce to extend the year of waiting and ask for the
Bahá’í divorce “at whatever time they feel so inclined.” If there has been no reconciliation of the parties in the
meantime, the Bahá’í divorce becomes final at the end of the year of waiting unless the granting of the civil
divorce is delayed beyond that time.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 12, 1979, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1329
On rare occasions, it may happen that the couple does not pursue a civil divorce following the end of the year
of waiting. In this case, the Assembly should report the end of the year of waiting to the National Assembly
with an explanation and should advise the couple that they will be obliged to observe behavior appropriate to
a year of waiting until they obtain a civil divorce or reconcile.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
NOT IN SPIRIT OF FAITH TO INTERFERE WITH CIVIL DIVORCE
When a year of waiting ends without reestablishment of the marriage relationship, it is not in the spirit of the
Faith for one party to delay or interfere with the civil divorce which thereafter must occur in order to legalize
the Bahá’í divorce.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 1, 1978, to a National Spiritual Assembly
DATE ON WHICH BAHÁ’Í DIVORCE SHOULD BE GRANTED
The date on which a Local Spiritual Assembly grants a Bahá'í divorce should be either:
•
The date of the finalization of the civil divorce (if the year of waiting was completed first) or
•
The date of the completion of the year of waiting (if the civil divorce was previously finalized)
The date the Assembly receives proof of the granting of the civil divorce or the date the divorce is recorded in
the Assembly’s minutes is irrelevant.
REPORTING YEAR OF WAITING AND BAHÁ’Í DIVORCE TO NATIONAL
ASSEMBLY
The Local Assembly should report specific events involving a year of waiting or a divorce to the National
Assembly. As parties often move following divorces, sometimes changing Assembly jurisdiction, it is important
for the National Assembly’s repository of marriage and divorce records to be up to date.
For each event, the Assembly should report:
•
the nature of the event
•
the full names of both parties
•
old and new addresses, if known
•
the Bahá'í identification number of each party, if applicable
The Assembly should send a separate report for each occasion that it has:
•
Set the date for the beginning of a year of waiting, including occasions when a new year has been
set. This report must include the beginning date of the year of waiting.
•
Voided a year of waiting for any reason. In this case, it is not necessary to provide a date.
•
Granted a Bahá'í divorce. This report should confirm the date on which the year of waiting was
completed and must include the date the civil divorce was finalized, as well as the date of the Bahá’í
divorce, which coincides with the latter of the two dates. It is not necessary to include a copy of the
proof of civil divorce.
•
Been unable to grant a Bahá'í divorce because the civil divorce is delayed beyond a reasonable time.
In that case, the Assembly should report the date of the end of the year of waiting with an
explanation.
The above reports should not list events involving more than one couple. It is a matter of confidentiality to
keep personal records of different couples separated. To simplify reporting for the Assembly, copies of letters
or emails sent by the Assembly to the individuals involved advising them of the Assembly’s decision may be
sent to the National Spiritual Assembly in place of a report, provided that they contain the information
specified above. No further commentary is required from the Local Assembly unless some unusual
circumstances are involved about which it feels the National Assembly should be aware or should have on
record.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 12 – Divorce
All reports as well as related correspondence you would like included should be sent to the Office of
Community Administration at the Bahá’í National Center via email, community@usbnc.org, or post, 1233
Central Street, Evanston, IL 60201.
See also:
Consultation with Others — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Correspondence — Outgoing — Ch. 4
ANNULMENT
Regarding the annulment of marriage: There is no provision in the Aqdas regarding this matter. The House of
Justice will have to legislate on it in the future. Any cases that arise at present should be decided in a way that
will not conflict with the civil laws concerning marriage and annulment of marriage.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 28, 1943, to a National Spiritual Assembly
We have not yet dealt with the subject of annulment of Bahá’í marriage and therefore do not wish to give
any rulings at this time. Under Bahá’í law it may be possible under certain circumstances to have a Bahá’í
divorce without compelling the parties to observe the year of waiting, or to annul a Bahá’í marriage.
However, we have not as yet defined the circumstances, therefore in the case you mention we leave it to the
discretion of your Assembly to handle the matter as you deem advisable.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 23, 1969, to a National Spiritual Assembly
If the marriage of a Bahá'í is legally annulled, he or she is not obligated to observe a year of waiting. It has
been the position of the National Spiritual Assembly to honor annulments granted by the civil courts. In such
cases, the parties are not required to complete the year of waiting or to be granted a Bahá’í divorce. The
Local Spiritual Assembly should note in its minutes the date on which the civil annulment was granted and
report it to the National Assembly.
Revised April 2016

13. BAHÁ’Í BURIAL .........................................................................................................................................................2
LOCAL ASSEMBLY RESPONSIBILITIES ...................................................................................................................2
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE ........................................................................................................................................2
REQUIREMENTS BINDING ON ALL BELIEVERS ..................................................................................................2
BURIAL WITHOUT CREMATION .............................................................................................................................3
Aborted Fetus Not to Be Cremated ......................................................................................................................3
If Plans Have Been Made for Cremation ..............................................................................................................4
BURIAL WITHIN ONE HOUR’S DISTANCE ............................................................................................................4
When Death Occurs at Sea ..................................................................................................................................4
EMBALMING SHOULD BE AVOIDED IF LAW ALLOWS .........................................................................................5
FUNERAL SERVICE.................................................................................................................................................5
If Relatives of Deceased Are Not Bahá’í ..............................................................................................................5
Official Bahá’í Funeral Service .............................................................................................................................5
Prayer for the Dead ..........................................................................................................................................5
Congregational Prayer .................................................................................................................................5
Non-Bahá'ís May Be Present .......................................................................................................................6
Obligatory Prayer for Dead Recited According to Gender ...........................................................................6
Order of Verses ............................................................................................................................................6
Service May Be Given for Deprived Believers .................................................................................................7
Service Should Be Simple and Flexible ...........................................................................................................7
REQUIREMENTS NOT YET BINDING ON WESTERN BELIEVERS .........................................................................7
BURIAL RINGS .........................................................................................................................................................7
COFFINS OR CASKETS ..........................................................................................................................................8
PREPARATION OF THE BODY ...............................................................................................................................8
OTHER TOPICS RELATED TO FUNERALS AND BURIAL .......................................................................................9
ATTENDANCE AT NON-BAHÁ’Í FUNERAL OF A BAHÁ’Í .......................................................................................9
BAHÁ’Í CEMETERIES ..............................................................................................................................................9
Burial of Deprived Believers .................................................................................................................................9
Burial of Non-Bahá’í Relatives ..............................................................................................................................9
BAHÁ’Í GRAVE .........................................................................................................................................................9
Gravestone Symbols ......................................................................................................................................... 10
Position of Body in Grave .................................................................................................................................. 10
BAHÁ'ÍS IN MILITARY SERVICE AND VETERANS .............................................................................................. 11
DONATION OF BODY TO MEDICAL SCIENCE .................................................................................................... 11
Organ Donation .................................................................................................................................................. 11
WHEN BAHÁ'ÍS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR BURIAL OF NON-BAHÁ’ÍS ............................................................. 12
SPIRITUAL WORLD AND OUR RELATION TO IT .................................................................................................. 12
GIFTS AND GOOD DEEDS IN MEMORY OF DECEASED .................................................................................. 12
MEMORIAL GATHERINGS ................................................................................................................................... 13
DELIBERATE APPROACHES TO DEATH ............................................................................................................... 13
EUTHANASIA ........................................................................................................................................................ 13
Euthanasia Is Violation of Civil Law ................................................................................................................... 13
Assisted Suicide Laws Vary by State ................................................................................................................ 13
REMOVAL OR WITHHOLDING OF LIFE SUPPORT ........................................................................................... 14
Who Decides ..................................................................................................................................................... 14
Care while Dying ................................................................................................................................................ 14
SUICIDE ................................................................................................................................................................ 15
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 13 – Bahá’í Burial
13. BAHÁ’Í BURIAL
LOCAL ASSEMBLY RESPONSIBILITIES
The burial of the dead is an occasion of great solemnity and importance, and while the conduct of the funeral
service and the arrangements for the interment may be left to the relatives of the deceased, the Local Spiritual
Assembly has the responsibility for educating the believers in the essential requirements of the Bahá’í law of
burial as at present applied, and in courteously and tactfully drawing these requirements to the attention of the
relatives if there is any indication that they may fail to observe them. These requirements are: that the body
not be cremated; that it not be transported more than an hour’s journey from the place of death to the place of
burial; that the Prayer for the Dead be recited if the deceased is a Bahá’í of fifteen years of age or more; and
that the funeral be carried out in a simple and dignified manner that would be a credit to the community.
In some parts of the world, if Local Spiritual Assemblies fail to carry out these sacred duties, some believers
might gradually drift away from the Faith and even pay dues to churches or other religious organizations to
ensure that, when they require to register the birth of a child, to solemnize a marriage or to have a funeral
service, there will be a religious institution ready to perform the necessary services. Conversely, when Local
Assemblies have arisen to carry out these responsibilities, the believers have acquired a sense of security and
solidarity, and have become confident that in such matters they can rely upon the agencies of the World Order
of Bahá’u’lláh.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated April 17, 1981, to all National Spiritual Assemblies, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1963-1986; The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, no. 280.22-280.23
See also:
Register of Vital Statistics — Ch. 5
Wills — Role of Local Assembly in Relation to Wills — Ch. 10
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
When a Bahá’í in a community has passed away, for whatever cause, the Local Spiritual Assembly, or the
National Spiritual Assembly, as the case may be, does have a responsibility to provide for a proper burial
which cannot be provided for either by the family or by insurance.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 17, 1969, to a National Spiritual Assembly
REQUIREMENTS BINDING ON ALL BELIEVERS
The following parts of this law ... are now binding on the believers in the West:
1.
That the body must be buried, not cremated.
2.
That the Prayer for the Dead is to be recited for a believer of the age of 15 or over. This, as you know,
is the prayer which appears as number CLXVII in Prayers and Meditations by Bahá’u’lláh.
3.
That the body not be transported more than an hour’s journey from the place of death. The method of
transport is not specified, but the journey must not take longer than one hour.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 3, 1975, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 638
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 13 – Bahá’í Burial
BURIAL WITHOUT CREMATION
He feels that, in view of what Άbdu'l-Bahá has said against cremation, the believers should be strongly urged,
as an act of faith, to make provisions against their remains being cremated. Bahá’u’lláh has laid down as a
law, in the Aqdas, the manner of Bahá’í Burial, and it is so beautiful, befitting and dignified, that no believer
should deprive himself of it.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated August 1947, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 666
Concerning your question about cremation, the Bahá’í law stipulates burial. The instructions of Bahá’u’lláh
contained in His Most Holy Book makes this law clear. Shoghi Effendi, in a letter written on his behalf to an
individual believer in 1955, comments that Άbdu'l-Bahá “ ... also explained that burial is natural and should
be followed.” The explanation of the Master referred to by Shoghi Effendi is found in the Tablets revealed by
Him. One of those was published in Star of the West, Volume XI, No. 19, page 317, from which we quote:
Thy letter has been received. Due to the scarcity of time, I write the answer briefly: The body of man,
which has been formed gradually, must similarly be decomposed gradually. This is according to the real
and natural order and Divine Law. If it had been better for it to be burned after death, in its very creation it
would have been so planned that the body would automatically become ignited after death, be consumed
and turned into ashes. But the divine order formulated by the heavenly ordinance is that after death, this
body shall be transferred from one stage to another different from the preceding one, so that according to
the relations which exist in the world, it may gradually combine and mix with other elements, thus going
through stages until it arrives in the vegetable kingdom, there turning into plants and flowers, developing
into trees of the highest paradise, becoming perfumed and attaining the beauty of color.
Cremation suppresses it speedily from attainment to these transformations, the elements becoming so
quickly decomposed that transformation to these various stages is checked.
When we realize that our physical bodies are composed of elements placed in the earth by their Creator, and
which through the orderly processes of His Law are continually being used in the formation of beings, we can
better understand the necessity for our physical bodies to be subjected to the gradual process of
decomposition. As at the time of death, the real and eternal self of man, his soul, abandons its physical
garment to soar in the realms of God, we may compare the body to a vehicle which has been used for the
journey through earthly life and no longer needed once the destination has been reached.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated June 6, 1971, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 669
It is also highly desirable for a Bahá’í to take steps during his lifetime to ensure that he will be given a funeral
in accordance with Bahá’í law and that his remains be not cremated. It may be possible to include such a
provision in the will, or some other procedure may need to be followed, depending upon the civil law.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated September 4, 1986, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 636
See also:
Wills — Ch. 10
Aborted Fetus Not to Be Cremated
The letter from the Spiritual Assembly of ... indicates that the miscarriage took place when the mother was
approximately four months into her pregnancy, therefore, they could have been assured that they did the right
thing in having the fetus buried. Also, it would have been helpful for the Assembly to know that the hospital
policy of incinerating a naturally aborted fetus is not in keeping with Bahá’í law which prohibits cremation.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 3, 1973, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 13 – Bahá’í Burial
If Plans Have Been Made for Cremation
Obviously a Spiritual Assembly cannot itself arrange for the cremation of remains of a Bahá’í even if it was
that person’s wish that his remains be disposed of in this way. Bahá'í relatives, likewise, are under the
obligation of obeying the Bahá'í law and must not agree to the cremation of a Bahá'í. Where non-Bahá'í
relatives of the deceased Bahá'í have charge of the body and are proposing to cremate the remains, the
responsible Spiritual Assembly should do all it can to explain the Bahá'í attitude to the relatives in an effort to
prevent the cremation. If these efforts fail, the Assembly can have nothing officially to do with the cremation
of the body; the believers, however, are free to do as they wish about attending the funeral and the cremation
and they may certainly offer a prayer for the progress of the soul of the deceased. The Assembly could, if it
seemed appropriate, arrange a meeting at a time other than the funeral, at which the Prayer for the Dead could
be said on behalf of the deceased.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 9, 1984, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 670
Whereas believers should be informed of the Bahá'í law of burial and urged to ensure that their remains are
not cremated this is a matter of education and not one involving the imposition of sanctions.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, in Local Spiritual Assembly Handbook, Australia, 3rd ed., no. 12.5.4
BURIAL WITHIN ONE HOUR’S DISTANCE
It is forbidden you to transport the body of the deceased a greater distance than an hour’s distance from the
city; rather it should be interred, with radiance and serenity, in a nearby place.
Bahá'u'lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, K130, p. 60
QUESTION: Is the ordinance that the body of the deceased should be carried no greater than an hour’s
journey applicable by both land and sea?
ANSWER: This command applieth to distances by sea as well as by land, whether it is an hour by steamship
or by rail; the intention is the hour’s time, whatever the means of transport. The sooner the burial taketh place,
however the more fitting and acceptable will it be.
Bahá'u'lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, “Questions and Answers”, Q16
The Universal House of Justice advises that the place of death may be taken to be the city or town in which
the believer passes away, and therefore the hour’s journey may be calculated from the city limits to the place
of burial. However, it should be borne in mind that the spirit of Bahá’u’lláh’s law is to be buried near where
one dies.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 9, 1978, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 647
When Death Occurs at Sea
The laws of burial as revealed by Bahá’u’lláh in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas do not refer to the occurrence of death at
sea. Until such time as the Universal House of Justice legislates on these matters, the friends when faced with
such incidents should be guided by whatever civil or maritime law is applicable under the circumstances.
Should land be reached, however, obviously the body must be buried on land in the nearest suitable place.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 20, 1974, to a National Spiritual Assembly, quoting a letter
written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, to an individual, in Lights of Guidance, no. 643
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 13 – Bahá’í Burial
EMBALMING SHOULD BE AVOIDED IF LAW ALLOWS
Under the Bahá’í teachings it seems clear that the body is not to be embalmed. ... The practice in the Orient is
to bury the person within 24 hours of the time of death; sometimes even sooner; although there is no
provision in the teachings as to the time limit.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated April 2, 1955, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 37
Bahá’u’lláh has advised that it is preferable for burial to take place as soon after death as possible. When
circumstances do not permit interment of the body to occur very soon after passing, or when it is a
requirement of civil law, the body may be embalmed, provided that the process used has the effect of
temporarily retarding the natural decomposition for a period of short duration. However, the body should not
be subjected to an embalming process which has the effect of preserving it without decomposition for a
lengthy period; such processes often aim to preserve the body indefinitely.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 17, 1988, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Embalming is not required in most states as long as there is no contagious disease. Refrigerated storage
units at morgues and funeral homes allow bodies to be preserved for a longer period of time without
embalming should burial arrangements take more than twenty-four hours.
If a Local Assembly has been told embalming is required, it can call its State Department of Licensing and
Regulation to determine whether that is actually the case, as it may be a misrepresentation.
FUNERAL SERVICE
If Relatives of Deceased Are Not Bahá’í
Concerning the burial of a Bahá’í youth, if the burial has not taken place and there is time to do so, the non-
Bahá’í family should be advised that the deceased is a Bahá’í (assuming they do not already know it), and
every effort should be made to induce the family to allow the body of their deceased Bahá’í relative to be
buried according to the requirements of his Faith. However, if they remain adamant, or if the burial has
already taken place, there is nothing which can be done except, perhaps, to say prayers for the deceased.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated November 20, 1976, in Local Spiritual Assembly Handbook, 3rd ed.,
Bahá'í Publications Australia, par. 12.5.5
Official Bahá’í Funeral Service
An official Bahá’í funeral service should only be given for a believer, but there is no objection to the reading
of Bahá’í prayers, or indeed to a Bahá’í conducting the funeral service of a non-Bahá’í, if this has been
requested.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 20, 1946, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 657
Prayer for the Dead
Congregational Prayer
The Prayer for the Dead (see Some Texts Supplementary to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas) is the only Bahá'í obligatory
prayer which is to be recited in congregation; it is to be recited by one believer while all present stand in
silence.
Universal House of Justice in “Notes” appended to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, no. 10
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 13 – Bahá’í Burial
There is a difference between chanting a prayer collectively and congregational prayer. The latter is a formal
prayer usually led by an individual using a prescribed ritual. Congregational prayer in this form is forbidden
in the Faith except in the case of the Prayer for the Dead.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 6, 1975, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1503
Non-Bahá'ís May Be Present
There is no objection whatsoever to non-Bahá’ís being present when the long prayer for the dead is read, as
long as they respect our manner of reading it by rising and standing as the Bahá’ís do on this occasion. Nor,
indeed, is there any objection to non-Bahá’ís being present during the reading of any Bahá’í prayer for the
departed.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 20, 1946, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 662
Obligatory Prayer for Dead Recited According to Gender
If the dead be a woman, let him say: This is Thy handmaiden and the daughter of Thy handmaiden, etc
Bahá'u'lláh, Prayers and Meditations, CLXVII
The prayer for the dead which is obligatory appears on page 260 of ‘Prayers and Meditations’. This prayer
allows for a change in gender.
Other prayers for the dead are optional but if used they are to be used as revealed.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 1, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Order of Verses
The correct order for reciting the verses of the Prayer for the Dead is as follows:
“‘Alláh-u-Abhá” (once)
“We all, verily, worship God” (19 times)
“‘Alláh-u-Abhá” (once)
“We all, verily, bow down before God” (19 times)
“‘Alláh-u-Abhá” (once)
“We all, verily, are devoted unto God” (19 times)
“‘Alláh-u-Abhá” (once)
“We all, verily, give praise unto God” (19 times)
“‘Alláh-u-Abhá” (once)
“We all, verily, yield thanks unto God” (19 times)
“‘Alláh-u-Abhá” (once)
“We all, verily, are patient in God” (19 times)
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated September 13, 1993, to a Bahá'í Publishing Trust
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 13 – Bahá’í Burial
Service May Be Given for Deprived Believers
He [a believer deprived of his voting rights] may have the Bahá’í burial service if he or his family requests
it ...
Attachment to a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 9, 1985, to an National Spiritual Assembly,
in Lights of Guidance, no. 217
Service Should Be Simple and Flexible
Regarding the Bahá’í funeral service: it is extremely simple, as it consists only of a congregational prayer to
be read before burial ... (The) National Spiritual Assembly should take great care lest any uniform procedure
or ritual in this matter be adopted or imposed upon the friends. The danger in this, as in some other cases
regarding Bahá’í worship, is that a definite system of rigid rituals and practices be developed among the
believers. The utmost simplicity and flexibility should be observed, and a selection from the Bahá’í Sacred
Writings would serve the purpose at the present time, provided this selection is not rigidly and uniformly
adopted on all such occasions.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated January 10, 1936, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, no. 32
REQUIREMENTS NOT YET BINDING ON WESTERN
BELIEVERS
Although the following requirements are not currently binding on the Western believers, they are binding on
Persian believers. Assemblies should become familiar with them to be able to provide guidance to the Persian
believers and to prepare the Western believers for the time when they are made binding. At present, Western
believers are free to observe these requirements or not as they wish:
•
The body should be wrapped in a shroud of silk or cotton.
•
A burial ring should be placed on the finger of the deceased before interment.
•
The coffin should be made of crystal, stone or of a hard, fine wood.
BURIAL RINGS
Is the use of the burial ring enjoined exclusively for adults, or is it for minors as well?
ANSWER: It is for adults only. The Prayer for the Dead is likewise for adults.
Bahá'u'lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, “Questions and Answers”, no. 70
The placing of the burial stone [ring] on the dead has no other significance than to emphasize our profound
conviction that our souls come from our Creator and to Him they return, and in Him we believe and trust.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 29, 1942, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 649
In brief, the Bahá'í law for the burial of the dead states ... that the body should be wrapped in a shroud of silk
or cotton, and on its finger should be placed a ring bearing the inscription “I came forth from God, and return
unto Him, detached from all save Him, holding fast to His Name, the Merciful, the Compassionate”; and that
the coffin should be of crystal, stone or hard fine wood.
Universal House of Justice in “Notes” appended to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, no. 149
Assemblies would be wise to keep one or more burial rings on hand to be prepared for unexpected deaths in
the community, as they might not be available in a timely way otherwise. They might also wish to have them in
multiple languages, as available, depending on the make-up of their community.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 13 – Bahá’í Burial
Burial rings can be purchased through the Bahá’í Distribution Service at (800) 999-9019 or online at
www.bahaibookstore.com.
COFFINS OR CASKETS
With reference to the use of hard wood or crystal coffins for the burial of the dead, you will be interested to
know that the Báb revealed the passage which appears on page 95 of Selections from the Writings of the Báb,
in connection with an injunction to bury a body in a marble coffin. Of particular significance is the sentence
“Since this physical body is the throne whereon the inner temple is established, God hath ordained that the
body be preserved to the extent possible, so that nothing that causeth repugnance may be experienced.”
The law of burial was confirmed by Bahá’u’lláh in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. The clarifications given by Άbdu'l-
Bahá and Shoghi Effendi are based on that law and are equally binding.
Bahá’u’lláh’s laws are for the whole world and for the duration of His Dispensation. Certain exigencies in
specific parts of the world at this time, such as the high cost of coffins or limitation of burial space in some
countries, cannot become the determining factors as to what is best for humankind all over the world and for
centuries to come. The specific burial problems you have mentioned require specific solutions which should
be arrived at through consultation with Bahá’í institutions on a case-by-case basis.
You speak of Bahá’í laws and ordinances having “strong Islámic overtones.” It may be of interest to you to
know that there is no law in Islám requiring the body to be buried in a coffin, yet those who have embraced
the Faith from Islámic background have radiantly accepted and complied with the law.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated March 3, 1987, to an individual believer
PREPARATION OF THE BODY
The preparation of the body for burial is a careful washing, and placing in a shroud of white cloth, silk
preferably.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated April 2, 1955, to an individual believer
The Báb has told us to bury the dead in silk (if possible) in coffins of crystal. Why? Because the body, though
now dust, was once exalted by the immortal soul of man!
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 29, 1942, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 649
In the Bayán, the Báb specified that the body of the deceased should be wrapped in five sheets of silk or
cotton. Bahá'u'lláh confirmed this provision and added the stipulation that for “those whose means are limited
a single sheet of either fabric will suffice”.
When asked whether the “five sheets” mentioned in the law referred to “five full-length shrouds” or “five
cloths which were hitherto customarily used”, Bahá'u'lláh responded that the intention is the “use of five
cloths”.
Concerning the way in which the body should be wrapped, there is nothing in the Bahá'í Writings to define
how the wrapping of the body is to be done, either when “five cloths” are used or only “a single sheet”. At
present, the Bahá'ís are free to use their judgment in the matter.
Universal House of Justice in “Notes” appended to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, no. 151
Although the Kitáb-i-Aqdas ordains that the body be wrapped in a shroud, there is nothing in the Writings to
define how the wrapping is to be done. The House of Justice does not wish to legislate at the present time on
this question, and the friends are free to use their discretion in such matters.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated August 9, 1987, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 13 – Bahá’í Burial
It is not specified as to who should wash and prepare the body for burial. If neither the family nor a member of
the community is able or willing to do so, most funeral homes provide this as a usual and customary service.
OTHER TOPICS RELATED TO FUNERALS AND BURIAL
ATTENDANCE AT NON-BAHÁ’Í FUNERAL OF A BAHÁ’Í
There is no objection to Bahá’ís attending the non-Bahá’í funeral service of a Bahá’í whose non-Bahá’í
relatives have prevented the Bahá’í funeral from taking place. The Bahá’ís should, however, endeavor to offer
Bahá’í prayers for the progress of the soul of their departed friend, if circumstances permit. If they cannot be
offered on the occasion of the funeral they should be offered at another time.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 4, 1966, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 659
BAHÁ’Í CEMETERIES
The Guardian thinks the ideal thing would be for the believers to have a Bahá’í cemetery.
Letter written on behalf of the Shoghi Effendi, dated September 5, 1950, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of
Compilations, Vol. I, no.36
At the present time there are no definite regulations for preparing Bahá’í cemeteries. However, in a Tablet of
the Master’s, He emphasizes the need for the cemetery to have a beautiful outward appearance and states that
the graves should not be joined together but that each one should have a flower bed around its four sides. He
also indicates that it would be pleasing if a pool were located in the center of the cemetery and beautiful trees
were planted around it as well as around the cemetery itself.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 20, 1978, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 654
Burial of Deprived Believers
He [a believer deprived of his rights] may be buried in a Bahá’í cemetery.
Attachment to a letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 9, 1985, to a National Spiritual Assembly,
in Lights of Guidance, no. 217
Burial of Non-Bahá’í Relatives
[I]t is quite possible that non-Bahá’í relatives of believers or others may be permitted to be buried in a
Bahá’í cemetery.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated December 3, 1975, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 673
BAHÁ’Í GRAVE
While the Guardian has stated that 'It is better and more appropriate to assign a grave to every dead person',
the House of Justice has advised that this statement expresses a preference and is not given as a binding
ruling. Moreover, the House of Justice has not legislated upon the question of what exactly constitutes a
'grave', nor does it wish to legislate at this time on the question of the placement of coffins in niches,
underground chambers or in vaults one over the other as might be found in a type of mausoleum.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 16, 2004, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 13 – Bahá’í Burial
In a letter dated February 20, 1978, to a National Assembly, the Universal House of Justice indicated that, “In
a tablet of the Master's, He ... states that the graves should not be joined together.” As the use of double
headstones for husbands and wives has become a common practice in some localities, believers should be
made aware that separate markers should be used for each grave.
Gravestone Symbols
As regards your question: there is no reason why the word “Bahá’í” should not appear in the center of a nine-
pointed star on the tombstone of ... but the ringstone emblem should not be used, nor the Greatest Name.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated September 30, 1955, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 671
Normally the building of structures or headstones on graves should be left to the family of the deceased, and
all expenses should be covered by them.
The use of the Most Great Name or the ringstone symbol on gravestones is not appropriate. In a letter dated
September 17, 1971 to an individual believer we wrote the following:
Concerning the questions you ask in postscript, there is no specific ruling regarding the type of headstone
that may be used at a grave site. However, regarding the inscription on a headstone, the beloved Guardian
asked the believers not to use any form of the Greatest Name but a nine-pointed star may be used. Or, you
may wish to have an appropriate text from the Sacred Writings inscribed on the headstone.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 4, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The Universal House of Justice has received your letter of 22 August 1975, about the marking of Bahá’í
graves. We have been asked to tell you that nothing has been found in the Writings making this a requirement.
However, in Bahá’í cemeteries in Άkká and Haifa, the graves are marked and some of the words on the
headstones are those of Bahá’u’lláh, Άbdu'l-Bahá and Shoghi Effendi. As you know, Shoghi Effendi indicated
that the Most Great Name would not be appropriate for gravestones and has suggested that such inscriptions
as a nine-pointed star and extracts from the Writings would be suitable.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated November 13, 1975, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Local
Spiritual Assembly Handbook, 3rd ed., Bahá'í Publishing Australia, par. 12.6.4
As the name of Bahá'u'lláh is one form of the Greatest Name, it should not be used as an attribution for a
quotation inscribed on a headstone. It is suggested that where an attribution is desired, the words “Bahá'í
Writings” or “Bahá'í Faith” be used. Additional guidance concerning the different forms of the Greatest Name
and their uses are indexed in Lights of Guidance, which is available from the Bahá'í Distribution Service.
Position of Body in Grave
The position of the body in the grave should be with the feet pointing toward the Qiblih, which is Bahjí in
Άkká.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 4, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 656
The dead should be buried with their face turned towards the Qiblih.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 6, 1935, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 646
Some non-Bahá'í cemeteries may not offer the option of choosing the orientation of the grave and if the foot
of the grave is not oriented toward the Qiblih, it may be possible to position the head of the deceased in the
casket so it will be facing the Qiblih when interment takes place.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 13 – Bahá’í Burial
BAHÁ'ÍS IN MILITARY SERVICE AND VETERANS
You should also advise all individual Bahá’ís who are in service that they should take whatever measures are
necessary to see that Bahá’í laws regarding burial are observed. Such individuals should also notify their
families or next of kin about these laws and of their wish to be buried according to Bahá’í law.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 11, 1968, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 651
In addition to previous instructions which we have given to you concerning Bahá’ís who are killed in military
service, you should inform ... that, if it is possible under Army regulations, he should arrange with his
Commanding Officer that in case of the loss of his life in Vietnam his body should be delivered to the
National Spiritual Assembly of Vietnam, or their representatives, for interment in Vietnam in accordance with
Bahá’í law. He should also arrange with his relatives, if possible, so that they will not raise any objections to
this procedure.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 31, 1968, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The Bahá'í nine-pointed star is authorized as an emblem of belief for headstone markers in United States
military cemeteries worldwide.
Even after separation from service, veterans and certain relatives may be eligible for burial benefits to offset
the cost of burial in a private cemetery. For further information, refer to the United States Veterans
Administration website at www.cem.va.gov/.
See also:
Military Service — Ch. 14
DONATION OF BODY TO MEDICAL SCIENCE
A person’s wish to leave his or her body to medical science or to donate organs may be stipulated in his or
her will. However, if the person has specific wishes concerning it, it would be wise to make sure that relatives
and physicians are aware of those wishes and to leave separate instructions in an easily accessible place,
especially in cases of organ donation for transplant, since the possibility of using donated organs is very time-
limited and would have to take place well before the reading of the will.
If Bahá'ís are in charge of the donation process, they should try to ensure that any final disposition of the
remains will involve a dignified burial without cremation. They may wish to inquire ahead of time how remains
are identified and tracked in the interests of honoring the wishes of donors regarding disposition and should
ask for and keep a copy of the consent form that was signed. It should include information on what the family
agreed to donate.
Organ Donation
Concerning your question about the Teachings of the Faith in connection with donating or receiving human
organs, in a letter dated 6 September 1946 written on behalf of the beloved Guardian, it was stated that there
was nothing in the Teachings which would forbid a Bahá'í to bequeath his eyes to another person or for a
hospital, adding that it seemed a noble thing to do.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 1, 1984, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Local
Spiritual Assembly Handbook, Australia, 4th ed., no. 16.7.3
A few organs or portions of organs may be donated by living donors but most may only be donated after
death. Persons who wish to have their organs donated after death should be aware of the various matters
concerning donation touched upon in the Burial chapter.
See also:
Wills — Ch. 10
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 13 – Bahá’í Burial
WHEN BAHÁ'ÍS ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR BURIAL OF NON-BAHÁ’ÍS
Bahá'í burial laws are not applicable to non-Bahá'ís regardless of whether a Bahá'í is responsible for making
whatever arrangements are necessary following a death. If it is possible to avoid embalming, cremation and
transport beyond the place of death, that is desirable, but in such cases, the overriding principles are to carry
out the wishes of the deceased and to foster harmony and unity within the family.
In situations where the wishes of a non-Bahá'í decedent involve burial in a distant location, and neither
embalming nor cremation have been specified in the will, unembalmed bodies may be legally transported
across state and even international boundaries in specially sealed metal caskets.
SPIRITUAL WORLD AND OUR RELATION TO IT
In His Tablets Bahá’u’lláh says that were we able to comprehend the felicities that await us in the world to
come, death would lose its sting; nay rather we would welcome it as a gate-way to a realm immeasurably
higher and nobler than this home of suffering we call our earth. You should therefore think of their blessings
and comfort yourself for your momentary separation. In time all of us will join our departed ones and share
their joys.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated January 13, 1932, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 695
According to Bahá’u’lláh the soul retains its individuality and consciousness after death, and is able to
commune with other souls. This communion, however, is purely spiritual in character, and is conditioned
upon the disinterested and selfless love of the individuals for each other.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 10, 1936, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 694
Concerning the question you have raised regarding the spiritual world beyond and our relation to it. After
death the soul of man permanently departs from the material plane, and enters the world of the spirit, in which
it can indefinitely progress and advance. The nature of that spiritual world is essentially different and superior
to our earthly life here.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated April 10, 1938, to an individual believer
You ask an explanation of what happens to us after we leave this world: This is a question which none of the
Prophets have ever answered in detail, for the very simple reason that you cannot convey to a person’s mind
something entirely different from everything they have ever experienced. Άbdu'l-Bahá gave the wonderful
example of the relation of this life to the next life being like the child in the womb; it develops eyes, ears,
hands, feet, tongue, and yet it has nothing to see or hear, it cannot walk or grasp things or speak; all these
faculties it is developing for this world. If you tried to explain to an embryo what this world is like it would
never understand - but it understands when it is born, and its faculties can be used. So we cannot picture our
state in the next world. All we know is that our consciousness, our personality, endures in some new state, and
that that world is as much better than this one as this one is better than the dark womb of our mother was.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 3, 1943, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 701
GIFTS AND GOOD DEEDS IN MEMORY OF DECEASED
The Master has told us that gifts and good deeds done in memory of those who have passed on, are most
helpful to the development of their souls in the realms beyond ... .
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated December 10, 1952, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 679
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 13 – Bahá’í Burial
MEMORIAL GATHERINGS
As you know, the offering of prayers on behalf of the departed, whether Bahá’í or non-Bahá’í, is encouraged
in our teachings, as such prayers are conducive to the progress of their souls in the world beyond. As to the
holding of memorial gatherings at regular intervals, there is nothing in the teachings specifically prohibiting
such gatherings, but we find general guidelines in the letters of the beloved Guardian, in which he warns the
believers against adhering to the rites and customs of past systems and of former religions, and instead urges
them to show forth the Bahá’í way of life and demonstrate the independent character of the Teachings of the
Faith.
Advertising memorial gatherings by the family is entirely a personal matter for the family to decide. It is left
to the discretion of your National Spiritual Assembly whether Local Spiritual Assemblies may permit the use
of their Bahá’í Centres for such gatherings.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 24, 1974, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 665
DELIBERATE APPROACHES TO DEATH
Sometimes death occurs after a period of illness and disability during which time believers may need support,
encouragement and guidance from their Local Assembly and community. Occasionally, Assemblies find
themselves in the position of being asked for guidance on how to approach an impending death or how to
cope with a suicide. As state laws governing ante mortem (before death) care are subject to change,
Assemblies should inform themselves of the specific laws that apply within their states.
EUTHANASIA
We have received your letter of March 18, 1974, in which you ask for the Bahá’í viewpoint on euthanasia
and on the removal of life support in medical cases where physiological interventions prolong life in disabling
illnesses. In general our teachings indicate that God, the Giver of life, can alone dispose of it as He deems
best, and we have found nothing in the Sacred Text on these matters specifically but in a letter to an individual
written on behalf of the beloved Guardian by his secretary regarding mercy killings, or legalized euthanasia, it
is stated:
“ ... this is also a matter which the Universal House of Justice will have to legislate.”
Until such time as the Universal House of Justice considers legislation on Euthanasia, decisions in the matters
to which you refer must be left to the consciences of those responsible.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 17, 1974, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 985
Euthanasia Is Violation of Civil Law
Euthanasia is prohibited in all states under general homicide laws. As a violation of criminal law, under the
Bahá'í principle of obedience to law, it is forbidden to Bahá'ís of the United States.
Euthanasia is distinguished from withholding or removal of life support by two characteristics: 1) it requires a
concrete action, such as administration of a lethal substance, by a person other than the one who is dying,
and 2) it artificially hastens the moment of death, compressing the process of dying into a brief span of time
rather than allowing it to take whatever natural course it would otherwise take.
Assisted Suicide Laws Vary by State
Assisted suicide is explicitly prohibited as criminal in many states although some states leave the matter
under common law rather than criminal law. In Oregon, physician-assisted suicide, in which doctors are
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 13 – Bahá’í Burial
permitted to prescribe a lethal dose of medication to be self-administered solely by a patient who has met
certain criteria, is legal. Regardless of whether suicide is legal in any civil jurisdiction, it is forbidden to
Bahá'ís.
See also:
Medical Matters — Suicide Prevention — Ch. 14
REMOVAL OR WITHHOLDING OF LIFE SUPPORT
Removal or withholding of life support is when a medical intervention required to sustain life is either not used
or the ongoing use of the intervention is discontinued, allowing the natural progression of an injury or existing
disease state to lead to death.
As to the Bahá’í viewpoint on the removal or withholding of life support in medical cases where intervention
prolongs life in disabling illness, nothing has been found in the Sacred Text specifically on this matter. In such
cases decisions must be left to those responsible, including the patient.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 31, 1979, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 985
Who Decides
In cases where life can be prolonged only through artificial measures, the decision to remove or to withhold
measures that would sustain life may be made by the patient, if he or she is capable at the time. Such artificial
measures may include cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), respirators, feeding tubes, intravenous fluids,
exceptionally potent drugs, and other interventions. A common practice is also for individuals, while still
capable, to prepare advance directives, called living wills, and appoint surrogate decision-makers, through
durable powers of attorney for health care, to handle decision-making for them in the event they should be
found to be suffering from an incurable and terminal condition and be unable to express themselves.
In the absence of a clear expression by the dying person, the decision of whether to use artificial measures to
prolong life generally rests with the spouse, next of kin or the guardian, if there is one. In the absence of all
these, the decision may devolve upon attending medical personnel according to whatever legal and policy
guidelines govern their place of practice. Hospitals generally have ethics committees that may be consulted
when there are questions about such decision-making.
Care while Dying
An option for individuals or families when a decision is made to remove or withhold artificial life support is
hospice or palliative care. Unlike euthanasia, beyond removing artificial life supports, hospice care does
nothing either to hasten or delay the moment of death. It includes use of drugs to alleviate pain, muscle
spasms and other possible effects of organ failure as death approaches; skilled nursing care to maintain
comfort and dignity; and spiritual and emotional counseling to support both the patient and the family during
the natural process of dying, which can sometimes be difficult and involves an unpredictable duration of time.
The majority of hospice care takes place in the home with family caregivers aided by resources and
assistance from hospice professionals. Inpatient hospice facilities are sometimes also available for those who
have no other caregivers, for end-stage patient care, and for caregiver respite. Further information and
directories for hospice care are available through the National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization at
(800) 658-8898 or online at www.nhpco.org.
See also:
Health and Well-being — Ch. 14
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 13 – Bahá’í Burial
SUICIDE
Άbdu'l-Bahá, in replying to a bereaved widow whose husband had taken his own life, stated the following:
As to thy husband, rest assured. He will be immersed in the ocean of pardon and forgiveness and will
become the recipient of bounty and favour.
Άbdu’l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Άbdu’l-Bahá, p. 201
Regarding the “In Memoriam” section of Bahá’í News: although suicide is so strongly condemned in the
teachings, it does not mean that a person has ceased to be a Bahá’í because he killed himself; he should,
therefore, be mentioned, the same as other believers, in this section.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 29, 1945, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 674
When a suicide has occurred, it is usually challenging to the community, as well as to the family of the person
involved. In addition to grief, various individuals both in the community and in the family may feel somehow
responsible and experience feelings of guilt and shame. In addition to the funeral, the Assembly may wish to
have a special consultation about the situation with those who wish to participate. The Assembly may decide
to appoint a representative to arrange for a grief counselor to meet with the community as a whole, or it may
refer affected members to individual counseling, to grief support groups or other resources within the wider
community.
See also:
Representatives, Task Forces and Other Appointees — Ch. 3
Spiritual World and Our Relation to It — Ch. 13
Medical Matters — Mental Illness — Ch. 14
Revised April 2016

14. OTHER ISSUES BROUGHT BEFORE THE ASSEMBLY .........................................................................................3
PERSONAL MATTERS ................................................................................................................................................3
ADOPTION ...............................................................................................................................................................3
HEALTH AND WELL-BEING ....................................................................................................................................3
Influences on Health .............................................................................................................................................4
Preventive Steps ...................................................................................................................................................4
Assisting the Sick ..................................................................................................................................................4
Condition of Soul During Illness ...........................................................................................................................5
Systems of Healing ...............................................................................................................................................5
MEDICAL MATTERS ................................................................................................................................................6
Addictions .............................................................................................................................................................6
Self-Help Groups ..............................................................................................................................................7
Artificial Insemination, Surrogate Mothers ............................................................................................................7
Birth Control ..........................................................................................................................................................8
General Principles ............................................................................................................................................8
Methods of Preventing Conception ......................................................................................................................8
Sterilization Not Permissible Under Normal Circumstances ............................................................................8
Abortion Forbidden Except In Certain Cases ...................................................................................................9
Birth Defects .........................................................................................................................................................9
Life Threatening Birth Defects ....................................................................................................................... 10
Genetic Engineering .......................................................................................................................................... 10
Mental and/or Emotional Impairment ................................................................................................................. 10
Assembly Does Not Have Role of Therapist ................................................................................................. 10
Assembly Is Spiritual Shepherd ..................................................................................................................... 11
Suggestions for Possible Assembly Action ................................................................................................ 11
Suggestions for Encouraging Individual with Mental Disorder ...................................................................... 12
Suggestions for Supporting Family of Person with Mental Disorder ............................................................. 12
Additional Considerations about Mental Disorders ....................................................................................... 13
Mental Illness ..................................................................................................................................................... 13
Personality Change ....................................................................................................................................... 14
Personality Disorders .................................................................................................................................... 14
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder .................................................................................................................... 14
Suicide Prevention ......................................................................................................................................... 15
Suicide Attempts or Threats ...................................................................................................................... 15
Diminished Mental Capacity .............................................................................................................................. 16
Alzheimer’s Disease and Other Dementias .................................................................................................. 16
INTERPERSONAL RELATIONS ............................................................................................................................... 16
APPEALS FOR HOSPITALITY OR ASSISTANCE ................................................................................................ 16
BUSINESS VENTURES ........................................................................................................................................ 17
Business Practices Should Be Consistent with Teachings ................................................................................ 17
Handling Business Disputes .............................................................................................................................. 18
DISPUTES ............................................................................................................................................................. 18
General Principles ............................................................................................................................................. 18
Disputes Between Believers .............................................................................................................................. 19
Disputes Concerning Principles, Teachings or Community Functioning ....................................................... 20
Disputes Regarding Administration of Faith .................................................................................................. 20
Disputes Regarding Personal Matters ........................................................................................................... 21
Reference to Civil Courts............................................................................................................................... 21
Disputes with Non-Bahá'ís ................................................................................................................................. 22
DISRUPTIVE BEHAVIORS.................................................................................................................................... 23
Due to Medical Conditions ................................................................................................................................. 23
Due to Mental Disorders .................................................................................................................................... 23
Responding to Behavior Problems .................................................................................................................... 24
SMOKING AT BAHÁ'Í MEETINGS ........................................................................................................................ 24
WORLD WIDE WEB AND INTERNET USE .......................................................................................................... 25
EXTERNAL ISSUES .................................................................................................................................................. 26
Revised April 2016

DISASTERS ........................................................................................................................................................... 26
Qualities of Successful Response ..................................................................................................................... 27
Immediacy and Creativity of Local Believers................................................................................................. 27
Adapt Core Activities Skills to New Needs .................................................................................................... 27
Plans Need Not Be Complex ......................................................................................................................... 27
Bahá'í Institutions Are Bulwark .......................................................................................................................... 28
Local Spiritual Assemblies Form Network of Stewardship ............................................................................ 28
Regional Councils First Resource When Assemblies Dislocated ................................................................. 28
National Center Functions as Clearinghouse ................................................................................................ 28
Aspects of Preparing and Planning ................................................................................................................... 28
Coordination with Government and Humanitarian Agencies......................................................................... 28
Community Preparedness ............................................................................................................................. 29
Personal Preparedness ................................................................................................................................. 29
Communications ............................................................................................................................................ 29
Resources ..................................................................................................................................................... 30
IMMIGRATION ....................................................................................................................................................... 30
Resettlement Agencies ...................................................................................................................................... 31
Who to Contact for Questions Related to Persian Bahá'í Refugees ................................................................. 31
Application for Citizenship ................................................................................................................................. 31
Immigration Violations ....................................................................................................................................... 32
MEMBERSHIP IN OTHER ORGANIZATIONS ...................................................................................................... 32
Holding Office in Non-Bahá'í Organizations ...................................................................................................... 32
Other Religions .................................................................................................................................................. 32
Political Parties .................................................................................................................................................. 32
Secret Societies ................................................................................................................................................. 33
Trade Unions ..................................................................................................................................................... 33
MILITARY SERVICE .............................................................................................................................................. 33
General Principles ............................................................................................................................................. 33
Identification as Bahá'í in Military Service ......................................................................................................... 34
Non-Combatant Status ...................................................................................................................................... 34
Bahá'ís Not Pacifists or Conscientious Objectors ............................................................................................. 35
Personnel Who Become Bahá'í While in Military Service ................................................................................. 35
Selective Service, Obligation to Register for ..................................................................................................... 35
NON-BAHÁ'Í CULTURAL AND RELIGIOUS EVENTS .......................................................................................... 35
Preserving Inherited Cultural Identities.............................................................................................................. 35
Attending Ceremonies of Other Religions ......................................................................................................... 36
BAHÁ'Í PRISONERS ............................................................................................................................................. 36
Contact with Prisoners ....................................................................................................................................... 37
Restrictions on Practice of Faith in Prisons ....................................................................................................... 37
Release from Prison .......................................................................................................................................... 37
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
14. OTHER ISSUES BROUGHT BEFORE
THE ASSEMBLY
PERSONAL MATTERS
ADOPTION
He that bringeth up his son or the son of another, it is as though he hath brought up a son of Mine; upon him
rest My glory, My loving-kindness, My mercy, that have compassed the world.
Bahá'u'lláh, Kitáb-i-Aqdas, par. 48
In this holy Cause the question of orphans hath the utmost importance. The greatest consideration must be
shown towards orphans; they must be taught, trained and educated. The Teachings of Bahá'u'lláh, especially,
must by all means be given to them as far as is possible.
I supplicate God that thou mayest become a kind parent to orphaned children, quickening them with the
fragrances of the Holy Spirit, so that they will attain the age of maturity as true servants of the world of
humanity and as bright candles in the assemblage of mankind.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Άbdu'l-Bahá, p. 138
It was a pleasure to Shoghi Effendi to receive your letter of May 26th and to hear about your adopted
children. This is a truly Bahá'í act especially as it was often lauded both by Bahá'u'lláh and Άbdu'l-Bahá, and
the Guardian trusts that they will grow to become Bahá'í workers, and thus repay your kind generosity.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated June 20, 1931, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 468
See also:
Sexual Immorality — Pregnancy or Birth Out of Wedlock — Ch. 10
HEALTH AND WELL-BEING
Make ye then a mighty effort, that the purity and sanctity which, above all else, are cherished by Άbdu'l-
Bahá, shall distinguish the people of Bahá; that in every kind of excellence the people of God shall surpass all
other human beings; that both outwardly and inwardly they shall prove superior to the rest; that for purity,
immaculacy, refinement, and the preservation of health, they shall be leaders in the vanguard of those who
know. And that by their freedom from enslavement, their knowledge, their self-control, they shall be first
among the pure, the free and the wise.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Άbdu'l-Bahá, p. 150
You should always bear in mind Bahá'u'lláh's counsel that we should take the utmost care of our health,
surely not because it is an end in itself, but as a necessary means of serving His Cause. In case of illness, He
emphatically tells us, we should refer to the most competent physicians.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 17, 1937, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 991
The physical, mental and spiritual health of the Bahá'í community has a bearing on its ability to function
effectively, attract the wider community, retain and support an active membership.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Influences on Health
The material world, in relation to the spiritual world, is a world of imperfections. It is full of dangers and
difficulties which have been greatly aggravated by man's neglect and misuse of his responsibilities. Human
society itself, which exists in the material world, is in disastrous disarray.
Our appetites and inclinations are strongly influenced by the condition of our physical makeup, and our
bodies are in varying degrees of health, depending upon factors such as heredity, environment, nourishment
and our own treatment of them. Genetic variations occur, producing conditions which can create problems for
the individual. Some conditions are of an emotional or psychological nature, producing such imbalances as
quickness to anger, recklessness, timorousness, and so forth; others involve purely physical characteristics,
resulting not only in unusual capacities but also in handicaps or diseases of various kinds.
Whether deficiencies are inborn or are acquired, our purpose in this life is to overcome them and to train
ourselves in accordance with the pattern that is revealed to us in the divine Teachings.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 11, 1995, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Preventive Steps
Issues of food, nutrition, health and shelter are central to the challenge of providing an adequate standard of
living for all members of the human family. ...While individuals must do their utmost to provide for
themselves and their dependents, the community must accept responsibility, when necessary, to help meet
basic needs. ... With regard to health — the physical, spiritual, mental and social well-being of the individual
— access to clean water, shelter, and some form of cheap energy would go a long way toward eradicating the
problems that currently plague vast numbers of individuals and communities. It must be acknowledged,
however, that some illnesses reflect unwholesome human behavior. The inclusion of moral development in
education would, therefore, help to reduce significantly certain current health problems.
Bahá'í International Community, dated February 18, 1998, “Valuing Spirituality in Development”
See also:
Love of Humanity — Ch.  6
Oneness and Wholeness — Ch. 6
Assisting the Sick
O thou servant of God! To look after the sick is one of the greatest duties. For every soul who becomes sick,
the other friends should certainly offer their lives (in service) with the utmost kindness.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Tablets of Άbdu'l-Bahá, Vol. I, p. 149
We should all visit the sick. When they are in sorrow and suffering, it is a real help and benefit to have a
friend come. Happiness is a great healer to those who are ill. In the East it is the custom to call upon the
patient often and meet him individually. The people in the East show the utmost kindness and compassion to
the sick and suffering. This has greater effect than the remedy itself. You must always have this thought of
love and affection when you visit the ailing and afflicted.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace, p. 204
Assemblies may wish to consider establishing a task force for such pastoral care activities as visiting the sick,
the bereaved, the elderly or otherwise home-bound members of the community, and encourage individual
initiative in providing home visits, especially to those who may be unable to participate in community life
otherwise. Offering to conduct a study circle or devotional gathering in the home of such believers, if they are
well enough, and asking them to invite friends and family can invigorate and encourage them in the Faith,
draw families and communities closer together, and be a rich source of healing fellowship for everyone
involved. Likewise, offering a helpful service or performing an everyday task for one who is infirm or ill can be
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
of enormous assistance and encouragement, reducing the sense of isolation and helplessness often
experienced by the sufferer in such circumstances.
See also:
Bahá’í Community Called upon To Distinguish Itself — Ch. 6
Removal or Withholding of Life Support — Care While Dying — Ch. 13
And in Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies
Condition of Soul During Illness
For the mind to manifest itself, the human body must be whole; and a sound mind cannot be but in a sound
body, whereas the soul dependeth not upon the body.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, “Tablet to August Forel”, in The Bahá'í World, 1968-1973, Vol. XV, pp. 37-43
Regarding your questions concerning the condition of the soul during illness: The passages in the
“Gleanings” make it quite clear that physical ailments, no matter how severe, cannot bring any change in the
inherent condition of the soul. As Bahá'u'lláh says: 'The spirit is permanent and steadfast in its station'. The
veil or hindrance that interposes between soul and body during physical disease is sickness itself. Sickness
reveals a lack of balance in the human organism, an absence of equilibrium in the forces essential for the
normal functioning of the human body.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 8, 1936, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. I,
no. 1061
See also:
Suicide — Ch. 13
Medical Matters — Diminished Mental Capacity — Ch. 14
Systems of Healing
There are two ways of healing sickness, material means and spiritual means. The first is by the treatment of
physicians; the second consisteth in prayers offered by the spiritual ones to God and in turning to Him. Both
means should be used and practised. ...
Now, if thou wishest to know the true remedy which will heal man from all sickness and will give him the
health of the divine kingdom, know that it is the precepts and teachings of God. Focus thine attention upon
them.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Άbdu'l-Bahá, p. 150
There is no such thing as Bahá'í healers or a Bahá'í type of healing. In His Most Holy Book (the Aqdas)
Bahá'u'lláh says to consult the best physicians, in other words, doctors who have studied a scientific system of
medicine: he never gave us to believe He Himself would heal us through 'healers', but rather through prayer
and the assistance of medicine and approved treatments.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated June 8, 1948, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 930
Regarding your question about the term "scientific system of healing", that phrase was first used by the
beloved Guardian; subsequently the Universal House of Justice was asked whether the meaning of "scientific"
might not vary from country to country. In response, the House of Justice concurred that the term "scientific"
is not fixed, its connotative meanings may vary.
What the friends must try and grasp, however, is that the Bahá'í Faith at this stage in its evolution cannot
place its seal of approval on any one of the plethora of healing techniques. In the rising Bahá'í society of the
future, it may then be possible to make definitive judgement or to evolve practices more directly predicated
on the Bahá'í Writings. However, there is at present enough development in the medical field and a wide
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
record of experience to enable a person after reasonable investigation to choose a suitable doctor or medical
institution to deal with a case of illness.
The basic instruction in the Writings to one who is ill is to find a doctor in whom confidence can be placed, to
follow his advice and to put one's trust in God through prayer. Of course, no healing technique which would
lead the practitioner or the patient to contradict the Laws of the Faith is acceptable. We must be careful not to
fall prey to quackery or to unnecessarily endanger the lives and health of either ourselves or of the loved ones
with whose welfare we have been entrusted because of an arbitrary distrust of scientific methods of healing. If
one feels that one is unable to make valid distinctions, it would be well to turn to others for advice, whether to
Assemblies or to individuals possessing good judgement.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 10, 1990, to an individual believer
The statement defining health practitioners from a Bahá'í point of view is given in a letter written on behalf
of the Guardian to an individual believer on 8 June 1948: "In His Most Holy Book (the "Aqdas") Bahá'u'lláh
says to consult the best physicians, in other words doctors who have studied a scientific system of medicine."
It is clear from other statements made by the Guardian, as well as from the practice of Bahá'u'lláh, the Master
and the Guardian himself, that by "a scientific system of medicine" he was not limiting the choice to the
medical theories currently dominant in western countries. The House of Justice, therefore, does not exclude
the use of traditional native healers, who have often gone through a rigorous training in their craft. There is,
nevertheless, an important borderline between unorthodox medical practice and sheer quackery or
superstition, and this we should be careful not to cross.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 17, 1994, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Resource Files — Counseling Resources — Ch. 4
MEDICAL MATTERS
Addictions
The malign effects of the widespread use of alcoholic beverages upon almost every society in the world
cannot but confirm every Bahá’í in the wisdom of Bahá'u'lláh in banning its use, thereby shielding faithful
believers from a legion of difficulties …
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 8, 1979, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The reason Bahá'u'lláh forbade drinking alcoholic beverages is because it is bad for the health, more
particularly for the mind. Of course you can point this out to Mr. ... and Mr. ... and you can also pray that they
will themselves feel the urge to give it up; but these are habits each individual should seek to surmount for his
own good.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated February 17, 1945, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations,
Vol. II, no. 1797
When a person enters the Faith with a known substance addiction, the role of the Faith is to provide spiritual
support and opportunities for transformation. There are a variety of approaches to overcoming addictive
behaviors and believers should be encouraged to avail themselves of private counseling, public agencies and
other means.
See also:
Behaviors Subject to Administrative Sanctions — Ch. 10
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Self-Help Groups
The Universal House of Justice ... has instructed us to say that there is no objection to Bahá'ís being members
of Alcoholics Anonymous, which is an association that does a great deal of good in assisting alcoholics to
overcome their lamentable condition. The sharing of experiences which the members undertake does not
conflict with the Bahá'í prohibition on the confession of sins; it is more in the nature of the therapeutic
relationship between a patient and a psychiatrist.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 26, 1986, to an individual believer
The Bahá’í community should feel free to call upon such agencies as Alcoholics Anonymous for assistance
and upon public agencies who work with the problem, but must realize that the greatest healing of this social
and individual disease is God’s Cause which in its fullness will eliminate the causes of alcoholism…
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated August 8, 1979, to a National Spiritual Assembly
Any work that helps people to get over the terrible habit of drinking is excellent, and should be looked upon
with sympathy and approval by the Bahá'ís. He thanks you for the Alcoholics Anonymous pamphlet you
enclosed and was pleased to see it.
Letter written on behalf of the Guardian, dated July 26, 1946, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II,
no. 1799
A variety of self-help groups, in addition to Alcoholics Anonymous, may be available in different areas and, as
long as they are reasonably in keeping with the principles of the Faith, believers should feel free to use them
as needed. One such organization is the Bahá'í Network on AIDS, Sexuality, Addiction and Abuse (BNASAA),
sponsored by the National Spiritual Assembly of Canada. The BNASAA website is www.bnasaa.org.
Artificial Insemination, Surrogate Mothers
Regarding surrogate mothers and artificial insemination, you will find the following extracts from statements
made by the Universal House of Justice relevant to your questions:
The beloved Guardian, in a letter written on his behalf to an individual believer who inquired on the same
subject, said “ ... there is nothing in our teachings about this, therefore there is no objection to having a
baby by means of artificial insemination as long as your husband is the father of it.”
Artificial insemination is, therefore, permissible to a Bahá’í wife provided her husband is the donor.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 11, 1978, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 973
In view of this, the House of Justice has stated that it would not be proper for a Bahá’í to donate semen to a
hospital for the artificial insemination of a woman other than his wife.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 25, 1979, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 973
The spiritual and social implications involved in the use of surrogate mothers to provide for the gestation of
the embryo, even when the embryo results from the fertilization of the husband's sperm and the wife's egg cell
which is later implanted into the womb of the third party, are too far-reaching for such a procedure to be
permissible to Bahá'ís.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 25, 1984, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1168
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Birth Control
General Principles
Birth control ... when exercised in order to deliberately prevent the procreation of any children is against the
Spirit of the Law of Bahá’u’lláh, which defines the primary purpose of marriage to be the rearing of children
and their spiritual training in the Cause.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated February 4, 1937, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1162
There is nothing in the Sacred Writings specifically on the subjects of birth control, abortion or sterilization,
but Bahá’u’lláh did state that the primary purpose of marriage was the procreation of children, and it is to this
primary purpose that the beloved Guardian alludes ... . This does not imply that a couple are obliged to have
as many children as they can; the Guardian’s secretary clearly stated on his behalf, in answer to an inquiry,
that it was for the husband and wife to decide how many children they would have. A decision to have no
children at all would vitiate the primary purpose of marriage unless, of course, there were some medical
reason why such a decision would be required.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 28, 1977, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1163
Methods of Preventing Conception
You and your husband, therefore, should have no feeling that you are obliged to add to your already large
family. This is a matter entirely for you to decide, and there are many methods of preventing conception,
including self-discipline and restraint, to which you can have recourse. Sterilization, however, would be a
more far-reaching action than any of these, with implications and results beyond those necessary for the
immediate purpose of limiting the size of your family, and is not permissible in Bahá’í law except in rare
instances where it is necessary for a medical reason.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 28, 1977, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1163
It should be pointed out, however, that the Teachings state that the soul appears at conception, and that
therefore it would be improper to use a method, the effect of which would be to produce an abortion after the
conception has taken place.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 23, 1975, to a Local Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1155.
Sterilization Not Permissible Under Normal Circumstances
It is clear from the instructions of the beloved Guardian that sterilization merely for the purpose of preventing
the conception of unwanted children is absolutely prohibited in the Faith. When asked about sterilization of
the mentally deficient or the physically unfit the Guardian pointed out that there is no reference to this in the
Teachings. Neither is there anything in the Teachings about the use of contraceptive methods in order to
prevent the transmission through inheritance of undesirable family traits and tendencies. These are, therefore,
matters which the Universal House of Justice will have to consider in future. We do not wish to legislate on
such matters now, and therefore leave the decision in each case to the individual believers involved.
We have said, however, that there may be circumstances which would justify sterilization, and that those
called upon to make decisions in this regard must rely on the best medical advice available (preferably more
than one expert should be consulted) and their own consciences. They should also take into account the
availability, reliability and reversibility of other methods of contraception.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated July 25, 1973, to an individual believer
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Under normal circumstances it is not permissible to have a surgical operation for the purpose of not having
more children if such an operation could result in permanent sterility. Bahá’ís considering such a step must be
guided by the Bahá’í principles involved, the best professional advice available to them, and their own
consciences. If it is established that vasectomy and tubal ligation are operations the effects of which are
reversible and which, therefore, do not result in permanent sterility, they would not fall under this prohibition.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 16, 1985, to an individual believer
Abortion Forbidden Except In Certain Cases
According to the Bahá'í Teachings the human soul starts with the formation of the human embryo, and
continues to develop and pass through endless stages of existence after its separation from the body. Its
progress is thus infinite.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated December 31, 1937, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 680.
Abortion and surgical operations for the purpose of preventing the birth of unwanted children are forbidden
in the Cause unless there are circumstances which justify such actions on medical grounds, in which case the
decision, at present, is left to the consciences of those concerned who must carefully weigh the medical advice
in the light of the general guidance given in the Teachings.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 23, 1975, to a Local Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 1155
Basically the deliberate taking of human life is forbidden in the Cause, but the Sacred Text envisages certain
possible exceptions to this rule and allows for the Universal House of Justice to legislate upon them. One such
possible exception is the matter of abortion. It is clear that it is absolutely forbidden for a woman to have an
abortion merely because she wants to have one, but there may be circumstances in which an abortion might be
justified. However, at the present time we do not wish to legislate on whether or in what circumstances
abortion may be permitted, and therefore the whole matter is left to the consciences of those concerned who
must carefully weigh the medical advice on the case in the light of the general guidance given in the
Teachings.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated February 5, 1975, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Burial without Cremation — Aborted Fetus Not to Be Cremated — Ch. 13
And in Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies
Birth Defects
The Beloved Guardian has asked me to assure you and the parents of the dear baby of his prayers for his
healing, both material and spiritual.
It is difficult for us to understand these calamities when they come to us. Those who are firm in the Faith,
know that the Hand of God protects them, and if something of this nature comes upon them, it is for some
reason, which may have to do with the spiritual development of the one affected, or the spiritual development
and welfare of the loved ones; or even for the melting of the hearts of non-Bahá'ís, who will be affected by the
Divine Spirit, through the manner in which the Bahá'í meets such an ordeal.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 23, 1953, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, p. 281
See also:
Considerations for Diverse Populations — People with Disabilities — Ch. 6
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Life Threatening Birth Defects
There is no explicit guidance in the Writings regarding birth defects and the Universal House of Justice has
not ruled on the issue of an operation in the case of a life-threatening birth defect. It is therefore left to the
judgment of the parents or guardians who must carefully and prayerfully weigh whatever medical advice they
receive in light of the general guidance given in the Bahá'í teachings, balanced with the needs of all members
of the family and how any decision would affect them.
The Assembly should support whatever decision is made by the parents or guardians without trying to
influence it, on the understanding that in such difficult situations there is neither a right nor a wrong answer
and it is the parties themselves who must live with any decision made.
See also:
Donation of Body to Medical Science — Ch. 13
Removal or Withholding of Life Support — Ch. 13
Genetic Engineering
Nothing specific has been found in the Bahá’í writings on genetic engineering. This is therefore a matter on
which the House of Justice may have to legislate but the time has not yet come for that. The subject is quite
complex, and an informed opinion can be offered only when the scientific understanding is much further
advanced than at present and the social implications are clearer. With the emergence of adequate
understanding, it will also be opportune to deal with ethical issues involved. In the meantime, Bahá’ís faced
with questions about genetic engineering are free to come to their own conclusions based on their knowledge
of the Bahá’í teachings on nature and the purpose of life. However, they should be careful not to make
dogmatic statements or offer their own understanding to others as a teaching of the Faith.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 20, 1997, to an individual believer
Mental and/or Emotional Impairment
Assembly Does Not Have Role of Therapist
In every aspect of offering assistance to families or individuals, the Assembly must always bear in mind that it
cannot, and must not, try to assume the role of therapist for which it is neither mandated nor equipped. It may
be helpful in some circumstances, always with the prior consent of the individual involved, for the Assembly to
provide general information to a therapist about the teachings of the Bahá'í Faith.
While respectful acknowledgment of the feelings, circumstances and perceptions of an individual is an
essential component of a productive relationship, ownership and responsibility for the interpretation and
resolution of his or her problems must remain with the individual. It is not the Assembly’s role to interpret,
explain, excuse, criticize or solve an individual’s problems however sympathetic the members of the
Assembly may be. It is the responsibility of the individual*, within the context of spiritual transformation and, if
needed, with the aid of trained professionals and support groups specially constituted for that purpose, to
acknowledge, interpret, analyze, and resolve his or her own life issues, whatever they may be.
Local Assemblies may suggest mental health counseling or support groups but should confine their own work
with individuals to issues of personal spiritual transformation, understanding and application of spiritual
principles, adherence to Bahá'í laws, functioning within the Bahá'í community and firmness in the Covenant.
In some states, such as California, it is possible that an Assembly may be subject to legal action for
attempting to provide counseling in cases of mental disorders.
*If the individual is mentally incompetent, the first
degree relatives and family members or a guardian
See also:
Resource Files — Counseling Resources — Ch. 4
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Assembly Is Spiritual Shepherd
The divinely ordained institution of the Local Spiritual Assembly operates at the first levels of human society
and is the basic administrative unit of Bahá'u'lláh’s World Order. It is concerned with individuals and families
whom it must constantly encourage to unite in a distinctive Bahá’í society, vitalized and guarded by the laws,
ordinances and principles of Bahá'u'lláh’s Revelation. It protects the Cause of God; it acts as the loving
shepherd of the Bahá'í flock.
Message from the Universal House of Justice, dated Naw-Rúz 1974, to the Bahá'ís of the World, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 141.13
In its interactions with an individual who suffers from mental disorder(s), the Assembly and its representatives
should strive to be:
•
Kind without being either indulgent or patronizing
•
Observant without either condoning or judging, unless the Assembly is considering a matter that
requires a judgment
•
Detached without being indifferent or lacking in empathy
•
Assertive about maintaining appropriate boundaries without being aggressive or intrusive
•
Alert for and prepared to confront domineering, intrusive, manipulative, or avoidant behaviors.
•
Prepared to contact private or public support services, if it appears that the individual might harm
him/herself or others.
•
Encouraging and supportive of behavior that is in keeping with the teachings of the Faith.
Suggestions for Possible Assembly Action
It is the responsibility of Bahá’í Assemblies to decide when individual interests should be subordinated to
those affecting the collective welfare of the community. But, as already stated, the interest of the individual
should always be safeguarded within certain limits, and provided they do not seriously affect the welfare of
the group as a whole.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated June 26, 1936, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 411
In cases of mental disorders, the Assembly should make its decisions first in consideration of the benefit and
welfare of the whole community and then in finding resources for the individual. Assemblies are encouraged
to seek advice from local mental health professionals, including social service agencies, and qualified non-
profit organizations concerning specific situations and to draw upon these resources in deciding upon any
course of action.
If the Assembly becomes aware of a problem that might be an indicator of mental illness or other disorder it
should avoid suggesting that there might be a mental problem, as it is not qualified to make such a
determination. Depending on the circumstances, it may wish to suggest that the person undergo a medical
evaluation through his or her primary care physician or other health care practitioner.
If individuals with mental disorders are repeatedly writing letters or making phone calls to the Assembly, it may
wish to appoint a liaison with a capacity to listen to interact with the individual. It may be helpful to assist
people to clarify and focus their thinking by asking, “Why are you telling me that?” It is also possible to politely
interrupt a flow of monologue that is unproductive.
If the person’s problems are affecting the community, the Assembly may wish to establish clear boundaries
regarding his or her behavior in relation to itself, the community and, if necessary, to particular individuals
within the community, with explicit consequences for violating the boundaries. If that approach is used, care
should be taken to establish boundaries that are reasonable and consequences that are appropriate. If
possible, this should be done in consultation and cooperation with the individual involved.
The Assembly may find it helpful to put the boundaries and consequences for violating them in the form of a
written contract at the time of the agreement so that both the individual and the Assembly will have a copy. If
possible, the actual wording should be agreed upon by both the individual and the Assembly. This will help to
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
reduce confusion and minimize individual differences of perception in recalling what was decided when
referring to the agreement in the future.
Once consequences are specified, if the predetermined boundaries are violated, the Assembly must act to
impose the consequences. If need for a therapist is indicated, the Assembly may wish to suggest that the
person get a referral from his or her primary physician, if they do not already have someone they are seeing
or would like to see. If the individual’s behavior seems to be so extreme that immediate assistance is
required, the Assembly or its liaison may wish to contact a mental health crisis intervention unit or the police,
as seems appropriate to the situation.
Additional advice and insight may be found in Some Guidance for Spiritual Assemblies Related to Mental
Illness and Its Treatment available through the Bahá'í Distribution Service at (800) 999-9019.
See also:
Special Issues — Persons Who Are Mentally and/or Emotionally Impaired — Ch. 2
Resource Files — Counseling Resources — Ch. 4
The Administreation of Justice — Ch. 10
Irresponsible Behavior — Ch. 10
Duty to Investigate and Try to Reconcile Couple — May Suggest Counseling — Ch. 12
Suicide — Ch. 13
Suggestions for Encouraging Individual with Mental Disorder
With reference to the broad aspects of your problem of psychological difficulty, the House of Justice has
asked us to quote the following passages from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh: “Know thou that the soul of man is
exalted above, and is independent of all infirmities of body or mind ... . When it (the soul) leaveth the body,
however, it will evince such ascendancy, and reveal such influence as no force on earth can equal”. In a letter
written on behalf of the beloved Guardian we also find the following passage: “You must always remember,
no matter how much you and others are afflicted with mental troubles …., that your spirit is healthy, near to
your Beloved, and will in the next world enjoy a happy and normal state of soul.” Thus it is that the soul is not
aided by psychotherapy. On the other hand, in your understanding of the mental phenomena which distress
you, and in your efforts to overcome your problem it is perfectly proper to consult professional experts, as
your National Assembly ... advised. In another letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi by his secretary, we
read the following: “As Bahá'u'lláh has urged us to avail ourselves of the help of good physicians, Bahá'ís
certainly are not only free to turn to psychiatry for assistance but should, when available, do so.” The mind,
then, with all its aberrancies, may often favourably be influenced by scientifically trained persons.
The Universal House of Justice suggests that through daily prayer, and specially by observing the daily
obligatory prayers, through study of the Writings, through active participation in teaching efforts and in the
activities of the community, and through constant effort to sacrifice for the Faith you love so well, you will
provide a spiritual counterpart to the professional help you will receive from the experts. You should also
endeavour to engage in some useful occupation, or by training yourself to have such an occupation, as work is
itself another means at our disposal, in accordance with our Teachings, to draw nearer to God, and to better
grasp His purpose for us in this world.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 6, 1976, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 953
Suggestions for Supporting Family of Person with Mental Disorder
[W]e would ... emphasize the ideal of rehabilitation within the family as well as in the community. Family
members should be trained, where possible, to help provide the support and encouragement that the disabled
person requires to surmount his impairment.
Statement by the Bahá'í International Community, dated August 1988, “Human Rights and Disability: Statement to the 40th United
Nations Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities”
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Assemblies may wish to encourage family members of a person with a mental disorder, if they haven't done
so already, to find out as much as they can about the disorder as well as medical conditions that may be
associated with it, and get help for themselves, even if the person with the disorder doesn't seek treatment.
Family members can encourage the person with the disorder to inquire about education and counseling, but
pressuring or trying to force the person to get help may be counter-productive.
If the family wishes, the Assembly may wish to provide a mentor to assist it with consultation. In addition, a
task force could serve as a liaison with the Assembly and direct the individuals concerned to proper human
resources and professionals for assistance. They may also provide guidance based on the Writings,
depending on the case.
See also:
Representatives, Task Forces and Other Appointees — Ch. 3
Consultation with Others — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Change Evolutionary and Inevitable — Couple or Either Party May Seek Assistance for Marital Difficulties — Ch. 11
And in Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies — Determining Whether to Assist Parties with Consultation
Additional Considerations about Mental Disorders
Your inquiries into matters of mental health are timely, for of all medical science studies, remedies for
disorders of the brain and mind are possibly the most important for mankind. In a letter written on behalf of
the beloved Guardian, which refers to Freudian methods, it is stated that "psychiatric treatment ... is still a
growing rather than a perfected science, " hence requires contemporary disciplined study. In another letter he
provides guidance by suggesting that, despite the many mental diseases and troubles of the present day, the
power in the Faith is such that it can sustain Bahá'ís, whatever their ailments may be, on a much higher level
than is given to others who are denied its healing grace.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated July 8, 1986, to an individual believer
As with many health conditions, mental disorders fall on a continuum from so mild as to be almost
undetectable to very severe. The degree to which a particular individual’s conduct may be affected varies
accordingly and may improve or worsen over time, depending on many factors. Some individuals may suffer
from more than one mental disorder or a complicating general medical condition at the same time.
Furthermore, persons with mental disorders may have difficulties with substance abuse, which further disrupts
brain chemistry and affects behavior.
Mental Illness
Very little is as yet known about the mind and its workings. But one thing is certain: Bahá'ís can and do
receive a remarkable help and protection in this world, one which often surprises their doctors very much!
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated April 9, 1948, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 947
It is very hard to be subject to any illness, particularly a mental one. However, we must always remember
these illnesses have nothing to do with our spirit or our inner relation to God. It is a great pity that as yet so
little is really known of the mind, its workings and the illnesses that afflict it; no doubt, as the world becomes
more spiritually minded and scientists understand the true nature of man, more humane and permanent cures
for mental diseases will be found. ...
You must always remember, no matter how much you or others may be afflicted with mental troubles and the
crushing environment of these State Institutions, that your spirit is healthy, near to our Beloved, and will in
the next world enjoy a happy and normal state of soul. Let us hope in the meantime scientists will find better
and permanent cures for the mentally afflicted. But in this world such illness is truly a heavy burden to bear!
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated April 12, 1948, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 948
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Personality Change
Personality is characteristic of the way a person customarily thinks, behaves, feels and reacts to events and
the environment. This is usually consistent over time, although there may be gradual changes, most often in a
positive direction, as a result of life experience and active involvement in the processes of spiritual
transformation.
Unusual or sudden changes in thinking or behavior that cause problems may signal a mental or physical
health change. Anyone who undergoes a personality change that results in unaccustomed problematic
behavior should be encouraged to seek medical evaluation.
Personality Disorders
Personality disorders differ from personality change in their timing and the mode of their appearance. They
are disturbances in character development that may interfere with proper functioning in personal, social and
work relationships. Some specific disorders tend to improve over time and respond to treatment while others
may not. As with other health conditions, personality disorders vary in degree of severity and people with
milder degrees of disorder may function reasonably well in most situations.
An awareness of appropriate personal boundaries may elude individuals with personality disorders and,
depending on the characteristics and degree of the disorder, behaviors may range from extremes of
aggressive intrusiveness to extremes of anxious and fearful withdrawal. Both require guidance concerning
inappropriate behaviors and, in cases of intrusiveness, sometimes stronger measures.
Prior to making a decision about how to actively shepherd someone with a personality disorder, the Assembly
will wish to evaluate the person’s willingness to attempt to undertake responsibility for life’s demands and the
process of spiritual transformation. In some cases the person may refuse to take constructive action on his or
her own behalf. In such cases, the Assembly may be wise to limit its involvement until it sees evidence of
willingness to actively engage in the process of transformation.
At any time, the Assembly may wish to seek professional advice for dealing with a believer who has been
diagnosed with, or appears to suffer from, a personality disorder.
Problems of personality disorder may be complicated by medical conditions, substance abuse and/or mental
illness.
See also:
Consultation — Ch. 4
Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder
Post-traumatic stress disorder or PTSD can afflict persons of any age, gender or background. Those most at
risk are victims or witnesses of abuse, molestation, assault or attempted assault, rape, torture, natural
disasters, severe accidents, or terrorism, persons who have lived in areas of prolonged conflict or persecution
(including members of minority populations in the United States), prisoners or former prisoners, persons who
have been in combat, and those whose jobs bring them into contact with life-threatening situations or their
aftermath.
Because the symptoms of PTSD and other trauma reactions can impact how a trauma survivor feels and
acts, traumatic experiences that happen to one member of a family affect everyone else in the family. When
trauma reactions are severe and go on for some time without treatment, they can cause major problems for
the person and his or her family. Sometimes, in response to overwhelming trauma, individuals resort to
substance abuse, which can complicate or exacerbate the problems.
Additional information on PTSD and sources of treatment is available from a local mental health provider.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Suicide Prevention
We must not only be patient with others, infinitely patient, but also with our own poor selves, remembering
that even the Prophets of God sometimes got tired and cried out in despair! ... He urges you to persevere and
add up your accomplishments, rather than to dwell on the dark side of things. Everyone's life has both a dark
and bright side. The Master says: turn your back to the darkness and your face to Me.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 22, 1949, to an individual believer, in The Unfolding Destiny of the British
Bahá'í Community, p. 456
It is too bad that young and promising men, who if they remain living can render great services to humanity,
should take away their life at a moment of despair.
The world, especially in these days, is full of woes and sufferings. We should be brave and have a stout heart.
Trials and tribulations should arouse in us added vigour and greater determination and not dampen our zeal
and kill our spirit.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 12, 1933, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 675
Suicide is forbidden in the Cause. God Who is the Author of all life can alone take it away, and dispose of it
in a way He deems best. Whoever commits suicide endangers his soul, and will suffer spiritually as a result in
the other Worlds beyond.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated August 25, 1939, to an individual believer
The House of Justice admonishes you to put all thought of suicide and death out of your mind and
concentrate on prayer and effort to serve the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 7, 1979, to an individual believer
A Local Assembly may one day be faced either with helping an individual or family try to avert a suicide or
with helping family members and the community cope with one that has taken place. The role of the Local
Assembly in regard to suicide is limited, because the urge to commit suicide is essentially a mental health
problem involving complex processes for which Assemblies are neither mandated nor generally qualified to
provide professional services.
See also:
Suicide — Ch. 13
Suicide Attempts or Threats
In cases of attempted suicide, emergency medical help should be sought immediately by dialing 911 or any
other local emergency number.
When confronted with a threat of suicide, it is essential that the Assembly not ignore or deny the possibility. If
someone is suicidal:
•
He or she must not be left alone
•
The person should be urged to seek help immediately from his or her doctor, or the nearest hospital
emergency room, or to call 911
•
If the person does not wish to make a phone call, someone else can do it and offer to drive him or her
to a care facility or a doctor
•
Call the 24-hour, toll free, National Suicide Prevention Lifeline (800) 273-TALK ((800) 273-8255),
which provides connection to a trained counselor at a local suicide crisis center
When the Assembly is aware of depression and suicidal thinking in an individual, it may, as a preventive
measure, have the person sign a contract with the Assembly agreeing not to commit suicide and to seek other
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
assistance whenever suicidal thoughts occur. Commitment to the Faith and respect for the Assembly, together
with the sense that it cares and is paying attention, may serve as stabilizing influences for the person.
See also:
Resource Files — Counseling Resources — Ch. 4
Diminished Mental Capacity
Regarding persons whose [mental] condition has not been defined by the civil authorities after medical
diagnosis, the Assembly on the spot must investigate every case that arises and, after consultation with
experts, deliver its verdict. Such a verdict, however, should, in important cases, be preceded by consultation
with the National Spiritual Assembly. No doubt, the power of prayer is very great, yet consultation with
experts is enjoined by Bahá’u’lláh. Should these experts believe that an abnormal case exists, the withholding
of voting rights is justified.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated May 30, 1936, to an individual believer
The withdrawal of administrative rights from a person who is suffering from a mental illness is not a
sanction, but merely a recognition of the fact that the believer’s condition renders him incapable of exercising
those rights. From this you will see that the mental incapacity must be very serious for this step to be taken,
and would normally be dependent upon a certification of insanity by medical authorities or confinement in a
mental hospital. Again, depending upon the kind of mental illness, such suspension of voting rights may or
may not involve non-receipt of Bahá’í newsletters, inability to attend Nineteen Day Feasts, etc.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 12, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 195
Mental incapacity may include such conditions as accidental brain injury, Alzheimer’s Disease, dementias
associated with aging and other intellectual disabilities, and mental retardation. Limitations on the
administrative rights of mentally incapacitated individuals may be conferred in some cases and is intended not
as a sanction but as a relief of the responsibility to vote or undertake other administrative duties.
See also:
Special Issues — Persons Who Are Mentally and/or Emotionally Impaired — Ch. 2
Assembly Service — Removal of Member — Ch. 2
Other Enrollment Considerations — Persons with Mental Disorders or Handicaps — Ch. 5
Removal of Administrative Rights — Limited Sanctions — Ch. 10
Removal of Administrative Rights — Distinction between Function as Adviser and Role of Enforcer — Ch. 10
Circumstances under which Parental Consent Is Not Required — Certified Mental Incapacity of Parent — Ch. 11
Alzheimer’s Disease and Other Dementias
Although it is a neurological disorder, Alzheimer’s Disease has significant psychological
symptoms/consequences. There are an increasing number of patients suffering from Alzheimer’s disease or
other forms of dementia.
The effects of these disorders are a heavy burden on the caregivers. There are associations nationwide that
provide educational programs and support groups for caregivers. Information may be found through the
United States government’s National Institutes of Health at
www.nia.nih.gov/Alzheimers/Publications/adfact.htm.
INTERPERSONAL RELATIONS
APPEALS FOR HOSPITALITY OR ASSISTANCE
Many years ago, the Guardian expressed the view that when a Local Assembly has a case of urgent distress
before it, it should endeavor, first, to have the situation relieved by the individual’s own family, and second, to
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
seek whatever civil resources may be available for help in distress. Situations of domestic abuse may
preclude the involvement of family members and in such cases, Assemblies should refer to Guidelines for
Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies.
Therefore, when individuals call upon Assembly Secretaries or individual Bahá'ís for financial assistance or
food and lodging, they should in most instances be directed to the local social service office or travelers’ aid.
Every Assembly should know where these offices are located, their telephone numbers, and even the persons
within those organizations who can deal with such emergencies. In most areas, city or town offices and local
police departments can provide this information.
Loving and careful support should be extended to any who have a true moral claim upon the compassion of
individual Bahá'ís or the Local Assembly, but often loving consultation, rather than direct aid, may serve to
resolve the cause of the distress. When considering appeals for assistance the Assembly must always view
them in light of its other responsibilities. Assemblies should take care to ensure that the need is genuine,
should they decide to provide material assistance.
Individuals to whom appeals for assistance are made must themselves determine the extent to which, in light
of the vital needs of the Bahá'í funds, they should utilize whatever resources they might have in solving the
material problems of humankind. It should be remembered that problems can often be solved in other ways
than mere charity.
See also:
Resource Files — Ch. 4
Abuse of Hospitality — Ch.10
BUSINESS VENTURES
The Universal House of Justice has received your letter of 15 February concerning the proposal by a number
of Bahá’ís to establish a private company whose shares would be owned by Bahá’ís and which would be
managed for the financial profit of the friends and of the Faith. We are instructed to transmit its advice.
Your objective to generate funds for the Faith is, of course, praiseworthy. In the past, as you may assume,
similar proposals have been made to the House of Justice, and the following guidelines may be helpful from a
letter to an individual:
“Concerning the formation of a company which you and other friends have suggested, the Universal House of
Justice ... has decided that the time has not yet come to have the Bahá’í institutions involved in a business
transaction in the way which was suggested.
If the friends, however, are willing, spontaneously, to establish a profitable business in order to benefit
themselves as well as the other friends, it is meritorious and there is no objection.”
Should such a business venture as you propose be undertaken — and there is nothing wrong with it in
principle — it would be well to advise the Bahá’ís who participate to approach it on the basis of its viability
as a business project and they should not underestimate the possibilities of financial loss.
The House of Justice feels that the institutions of the Faith should neither themselves become involved in nor
promote such a private business. The use of national endowments as collateral for such a business is not
permissible.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated April 5, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 853
Business Practices Should Be Consistent with Teachings
Stores and establishments where the majority of owners are Bahá'ís should be closed on the nine Holy Days,
even though they may have non-Bahá'ís in their employ.
Businesses owned or managed by Bahá'ís should not feature entertainment or offer services that are
inconsistent with the teachings of the Bahá'í Faith. Managers of businesses that offer entertainment and
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
services inconsistent with the teachings who do not have authority to discontinue such practices should seek
other employment as soon as it is reasonably possible to do so.
See also:
Behaviors Subject to Administrative Sanctions — Ch. 10
Handling Business Disputes
He does not want the friends to form the habit of taking up a kind of Bahá’í litigation against each other.
Their duties to humanity are too sacred and urgent in these days, when the Cause is struggling to spread and
assert its independence, for them to spend their precious time, and his precious time, in this way. Ask them,
therefore, to unite, forget the past, and serve as never before.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 22, 1947, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II, no. 1287
While it is always to be hoped that Bahá’ís will find ways of settling disputes without resort to the civil
courts, and while it may be desirable that the parties consult their Assembly, the Assembly is not always
required to assume the role of adjudicator.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated March 29, 1979, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
Irresponsible Behavior — Ch. 10
DISPUTES
General Principles
Do not quarrel with anybody, and shun every form of dispute. Utter the Word of God. If he accepteth it the
desired purpose is attained, and if he turneth away leave him to himself and trust to God.
Such is the attribute of those who are firm in the Covenant.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Άbdu'l-Bahá, p. 210
Likewise, when you meet those whose opinions differ from your own, do not turn away your face from them.
All are seeking truth, and there are many roads leading thereto. Truth has many aspects, but it remains always
and forever one.
Do not allow difference of opinion, or diversity of thought to separate you from your fellow-men, or to be the
cause of dispute, hatred and strife in your hearts.
Rather, search diligently for the truth and make all men your friends.
Every edifice is made of many different stones, yet each depends on the other to such an extent that if one
were displaced the whole building would suffer; if one is faulty the structure is imperfect.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Paris Talks, pp. 53-54
[Y]our Assembly should constantly exhort the friends to be more conscious of their duties, and to be very
careful of having differences of opinion which are so strong as to lead to disputes and thus humiliate our
beloved Faith in the eyes of non-Bahá'ís. The public is beginning to observe them, and they must therefore
conduct themselves at all times as befits those who bear the glorious Name of Bahá. They must be forgetful of
self, but ever mindful of the Cause of God!
Shoghi Effendi, Messages of Shoghi Effendi to the Indian Subcontinent, p. 264
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Regarding your question about the need for greater unity among the friends, there is no doubt that this is so,
and the Guardian feels that one of the chief instruments for promoting it is to teach the Bahá'ís themselves, in
classes and through precepts, that love of God, and consequently of men, is the essential foundation of every
religion, our own included. A greater degree of love will produce a greater unity, because it enables people to
bear with each other, to be patient and forgiving.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 7, 1944, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol. II,
no. 1299
It is important to note, however, that individuals who wish to present their views should do so in a way
compatible with the Bahá'í spirit of consultation. It sometimes happens that a believer insists on expounding
his views at Bahá'í meetings, and frequently disrupts such gatherings, and may even display such behaviour in
the presence of non-Bahá'ís. If he stubbornly persists in this conduct, despite exhortations and warnings given
to him by the proper Bahá'í institutions, he will somehow have to be prevented from taking the law into his
own hands and jeopardizing Bahá'í interests. When differences such as these arise, it is important that frank
and loving consultation between the person concerned and the Local Spiritual Assembly, and if need be the
National Spiritual Assembly, should take place, or perhaps the institution of the Counsellors could help
resolve the problem.
Memorandum from the Research Department of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 7, 1993, “Issues Concerning
Community Functioning”
When the Assembly or its representatives are faced with handling any dispute, it may be helpful to ask the
persons involved to explain their understandings of what has happened. In situations where one person
complains that another did not fulfill a commitment or a promise, the Assembly should find out whether the
person has talked with the other person(s) about the lack of fulfillment and what was said. Establishing the
facts of what was done, said, and understood will enable the Assembly to see immediately how much each
person knows or does not know and enable it to address the situation more effectively and with less
investment of its own time.
Assemblies are advised to ask any parties wishing to consult with it on any matter involving a dispute to agree
in writing not to compel the Assembly to testify or produce records in any legal proceeding regarding the
matter.
See also:
Representatives, Task Forces and Other Appointees — Ch. 3
Consultation — Ch. 4
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
Disputes Between Believers
When criticism and harsh words arise within a Bahá’í community, there is no remedy except to put the past
behind one, and persuade all concerned to turn over a new leaf, and for the sake of God and His Faith refrain
from mentioning the subjects which have led to misunderstanding and inharmony. The more the friends argue
back and forth and maintain, each side, that their point of view is the right one, the worse the whole situation
becomes.
When we see the condition the world is in today, we must surely forget these utterly insignificant internal
disturbances, and rush, unitedly, to the rescue of humanity. You should urge your fellow-Bahá’ís to take this
point of view, and to support you in a strong effort to suppress every critical thought and every harsh word, in
order to let the spirit of Bahá’u’lláh flow into the entire community, and unite it in His love and His service.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated February 16, 1951, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations,
Vol. II, p. 23
See also:
Process of Consultation — Acceptance of Assembly’s Decision — Ch. 4
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Disputes Concerning Principles, Teachings or Community Functioning
It is the sacred duty of the believers to teach, and one of the reasons for so painstakingly building up
Assemblies is for them to promulgate the Cause of God, and not to lose their time in discussing details,
settling disputes which should not have arisen between Bahá'ís, and generally losing themselves in
personalities.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated July 22, 1947, to an individual believer, in Letters from the Guardian to Australia
and New Zealand, p.69
In brief, O ye believers of God! The text of the divine Book is this: If two souls quarrel and contend about a
question of the divine questions, differing and disputing, both are wrong. The wisdom of this incontrovertible
law of God is this: That between two souls from amongst the believers of God, no contention and dispute may
arise; that they may speak with each other with infinite amity and love. Should there appear the least trace of
controversy, they must remain silent, and both parties must continue their discussions no longer, but ask the
reality of the question from the Interpreter. This is the irrefutable command!
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Tablets of the Divine Plan, p. 56
Disputes Regarding Administration of Faith
All should be ready and willing to set aside every personal sense of grievance - justified or unjustified - for
the good of the Cause, because the people will never embrace it until they see in its community life mirrored
what is so conspicuously lacking in the world: love and unity.
The Bahá'ís are fully entitled to address criticisms to their assemblies; they can freely air their views about
policies or individual members of elected bodies to the assembly, local or national, but then they must whole-
heartedly accept the advice or decision of the assembly, according to the principles already laid down for such
matters in Bahá'í administration.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated May 13, 1945, to an individual believer, in Letters from the Guardian to Australia
and New Zealand, p. 55
The Guardian believes that a great deal of the difficulties from which the believers ... feel themselves to be
suffering are caused by their neither correctly understanding nor putting into practice the administration. They
seem - many of them - to be prone to continually challenging and criticizing the decisions of their Assemblies.
If the Bahá'ís undermine the very bodies which are, however immaturely, seeking to co-ordinate Bahá'í
activities and administer Bahá'í affairs, if they continually criticize their acts and challenge or belittle their
decisions, they not only prevent any real rapid progress in the Faith's development from taking place, but they
repel outsiders who quite rightly may ask how we ever expect to unite the whole world when we are so
disunited among ourselves!
There is only one remedy for this: to study the administration, to obey the Assemblies, and each believer seek
to perfect his own character as a Bahá'í. We can never exert the influence over others which we can exert over
ourselves. If we are better, if we show love, patience, and understanding of the weaknesses of others; if we
seek to never criticize but rather encourage, others will do likewise, and we can really help the Cause through
our example and spiritual strength. The Bahá'ís everywhere, when the administration is first established, find
it very difficult to adjust themselves. They have to learn to obey, even when the Assembly may be wrong, for
the sake of unity. They have to sacrifice their personalities, to a certain extent, in order that the community life
may grow and develop as a whole. These things are difficult - but we must realize that they will lead us to a
very much greater, more perfect, way of life when the Faith is properly established according to the
administration.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated October 26, 1943, to an individual believer, in The Compilation of Compilations, Vol.
II, no. 1469
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Sometimes a believer will refuse to accept the decision of an Assembly and will repeatedly raise the same
issue, consuming an inordinate amount of the Assembly’s time. Although every believer has the right to
appeal a decision of the Assembly, none have the right to harass the Assembly in the hope or belief that it will
change its decision to suit the individual’s viewpoint.
See also:
Process of Consultation — Acceptance of Assembly’s Decision — Ch. 4
Handling Appeals — Ch. 10
Backbiting and Gossiping — Ch. 10
Disputes Regarding Personal Matters
Dispute not with any one concerning the things of this world and its affairs, for God hath abandoned them to
such as have set their affection upon them. Out of the whole world He hath chosen for Himself the hearts of
men - hearts which the hosts of revelation and of utterance can subdue. Thus hath it been ordained by the
Fingers of Bahá, upon the Tablet of God's irrevocable decree, by the behest of Him Who is the Supreme
Ordainer, the All-Knowing.
Bahá'u'lláh, Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá'u'lláh, no. CXXVIII
In disputes between believers regarding personal matters, Assemblies should generally avoid accepting the
word of either party before a thorough examination of the facts and without obtaining the comments of all
parties. However, in situations of abuse, suspected abuse or allegations of abuse, the Assembly should,
before taking any further action, refer immediately to Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic
Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies for information on how to proceed.
In attempting to aid parties in resolving disputes not involving allegations of abuse or suspected abuse,
Assemblies may find it helpful to suggest that the parties examine separately their own roles and assumptions
in the dispute, as well as the accuracy of the views of the other parties. The Assembly may also find it helpful
to steer thinking away from extreme outcomes, worst-case scenarios or unrealistically optimistic scenarios, as
those kinds of thinking tend to escalate apprehension between both parties, exacerbate the current situation,
or set them up for future disappointments if they are unrealistically optimistic. It should assist the parties
involved to consider moderate views based on facts rather than suppositions, speculation or fears. It may find
that either or both parties need assistance in clarifying and separating facts from assumptions and/or
opinions. Assemblies should also keep in mind that although both parties in a dispute may be at fault, they are
often not equally so and that one party may truly need the Assembly’s help in dealing with the other.
Occasionally, disputes may involve manipulation or lying. The Assembly must weigh each situation carefully,
as skilled manipulators are often able to mislead others and get away with and continue their behavior by
matching every true statement with a false allegation. Examples of this might be when both parties accuse
each other of the same thing or when one party accuses the other of being a liar to confuse the Assembly.
This may lead the Assembly to feel that it cannot determine the truth or that neither party is being truthful.
The Assembly may wish to appoint a representative or representatives to mediate until the dispute is resolved
or it becomes clear that resolution will not be forthcoming through consultation. If, after reasonable efforts to
assist the parties, the dispute remains unsettled, the Assembly may withdraw in favor of civil proceedings or
seek advice from the National Spiritual Assembly about how to proceed. In any case, it should guard against
allowing wrangling between parties to take up an inordinate amount of its time.
See also:
Representatives, Task Forces and Other Appointees — Ch. 3
Consultation with Others — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
Reference to Civil Courts
The Guardian wishes to emphasize the importance of avoiding references to civil courts of cases of dispute
between believers, even in non-Bahá’í issues. It is the Assembly's function to endeavor to settle amicably such
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
disputes, both in order to safeguard the fair name and prestige of the Cause, and to acquire the necessary
experience for the extension of its functions in the future.
Shoghi Effendi, in Principles of Bahá’í Administration, p. 28
[T]he House of Justice ... states that believers should take their differences to the Spiritual Assembly and
abide by the decision of the Assembly. However, if Bahá'ís cannot negotiate a settlement of a dispute between
them, and if the Spiritual Assembly cannot succeed in arbitrating a solution to the dispute, then there is no
objection to the Bahá'ís having recourse to the civil courts. The Assembly should not hesitate to refuse to act
in a case which it is satisfied is more properly a question for the law courts. However, the Assembly does not
have the authority to prohibit a believer from having recourse to the civil courts if he decides to do so.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated February 9, 1983, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1466
See also:
Privileged Communications in Civil Law — Ch. 4
Assembly Should Not Be Involved in Matters Pending in Civil Courts — Ch. 12
Disputes with Non-Bahá'ís
We should - every one of us - remain aloof, in heart and in mind, in words and in deeds, from the political
affairs and disputes of the Nations and of Governments. We should keep ourselves away from such thoughts.
We should have no political connection with any of the parties and should join no faction of these different
and warring sects.
Absolute impartiality in the matter of political parties should be shown by words and by deeds, and the love
of the whole humanity, whether a Government or a nation, which is the basic teaching of Bahá'u'lláh, should
also be shown by words and by deeds. ...
According to the exhortations of the Supreme Pen and the confirmatory explanations of the Covenant of God
Bahá'ís are in no way allowed to enter into political affairs under any pretense of excuse; since such an action
brings about disastrous results and ends in hurting the Cause of God and its intimate friends.
Shoghi Effendi, Directives from the Guardian, no. 152
In one of His Tablets Bahá'u'lláh warns the Bahá'ís: "Dispute not with any one concerning the things of this
world and its affairs, for God hath abandoned them to such as have set their affection upon them. Out of the
whole world He hath chosen for Himself the hearts of men -- hearts which the hosts of revelation and of
utterance can subdue." (Gleanings CXXVIII) As you realize, this cannot mean that Bahá'ís must not be
controversial since, in many societies, being a Bahá'í is itself a controversial matter. The central importance of
this principle of avoidance of politics and controversial matters is that Bahá'ís should not allow themselves to
be drawn into the disputes of the many conflicting elements of the society around them. The aim of the
Bahá'ís is to reconcile, to heal divisions, to bring about tolerance and mutual respect among men, and this aim
is undermined if we allow ourselves to be swept along by the ephemeral passions of others. This does not
mean that Bahá'ís cannot collaborate with any non-Bahá'í movement; it does mean that good judgment is
required to distinguish those activities and associations which are beneficial and constructive from those
which are divisive.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 3, 1982, to an individual believer, in Messages from the
Universal House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, pp. 516-517
When passions intensify over conditions and issues affecting society, individual Bahá'ís may, from time to
time, be approached by their non-Bahá'í friends, relatives or acquaintances and encouraged or pressured to
join in partisan political activities. Such activity is contrary to the principles of the Faith and should be avoided.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Whatever personal feelings individuals may have about situations or events in the United States or abroad,
Bahá'ís must not take sides in political disputes or struggles. Instead, they must concentrate on the
advancement of the Cause of God, which is ultimately the only guarantor of the peace and prosperity of the
world.
See also:
Membership in Certain Organizations — Ch. 10
Membership in Other Organizations — Ch. 14
DISRUPTIVE BEHAVIORS
Due to Medical Conditions
Our appetites and inclinations are strongly influenced by the condition of our physical makeup, and our
bodies are in varying degrees of health, depending upon factors such as heredity, environment, nourishment
and our own treatment of them. Genetic variations occur, producing conditions which can create problems for
the individual. Some conditions are of an emotional or psychological nature, producing such imbalances as
quickness to anger, recklessness, timorousness, and so forth; others involve purely physical characteristics,
resulting not only in unusual capacities but also in handicaps or diseases of various kinds.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 11, 1995, to a National Spiritual Assembly
In some cases, disruptive behavior may be due to the effects of illness or disease. The person’s behavior may
become extremely unpredictable, over-emotional, even aggressive, regardless of his or her normal
personality.
In some cases, problems in behavior may be due to an adverse reaction to prescription medication, drug
interaction with other substances, or environmental exposure to harmful substances that produce biochemical
imbalances in the body. Other medical conditions, for example certain allergies and food intolerances, may
also result in mood or behavior problems, some of which may be mistaken for mental disorder, substance
abuse, or deliberate abuse of others, especially if the condition is undiagnosed and occurs repeatedly.
It is often appropriate to suggest that someone with a behavior problem be thoroughly evaluated by a
competent physician.
See also:
Resource Files — Ch. 4
Change Evolutionary and Inevitable — Couple or Either Party May Seek Assistance for Marital Difficulties — Ch. 11
Duty to Investigate and Try to Reconcile Couple — May Suggest Counseling — Ch. 12
Due to Mental Disorders
There are a great many as you know mental diseases and troubles at present, and the one thing Bahá'ís must
not do is take a defeatist attitude toward them. The power in the Faith is such that it can sustain us on a much
higher level in spite of whatever our ailments might be, than other people who are denied it. This however
does not mean that we should ignore medical opinion and treatment. On the contrary, we should do our best to
procure the opinion of specialists and competent doctors.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated January 12, 1957, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 956
You have asked what to do since psychological problems sometimes make it difficult for you to participate in
community events and Assembly meetings. In striving to follow the Teachings and the best medical advice
you can obtain, you will want to remember that the healing you do now is an investment that will enable you
to better serve in the future. Ideally, you would combine concentrating on healing with avenues of service
which do not interfere with it.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 23, 1994, to an individual believer
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Regarding your question about methods of healing which involve temporarily re-experiencing or
remembering events, these are complex medical matters and as stipulated in the Teachings, believers should
seek the best medical advice which is available and follow it. Experience seems to suggest that the healing
process can often be a lengthy and stressful one requiring the close guidance and help of trained professionals.
Advice given by well-meaning believers to the effect that you should seek to transcend psychological
problems does not qualify as competent advice on what is essentially a medical issue.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated October 23, 1994, to an individual believer
The institutions as well as individual believers will have to learn to accommodate and to assist those persons
who, may or may not be mentally ill by medical definition but, nonetheless, have negative, unpleasant or
disruptive personalities. When a believer has emotional or psychological problems which render him
incapable of behaving responsibly, the Local Assembly must, to safeguard the welfare of the community,
consider what it can do to minimize the negative aspects of the person’s influence and protect the community
from disruption and divisiveness. On the other hand, it must endeavor to help such persons face their
challenges in life, which may be considerable, and develop their God-given spiritual potential.
Responding to Behavior Problems
The Local Assembly should encourage a person with mental health or behavioral problems to seek the
assistance of competent professionals. If the Assembly suspects that someone may be in danger because of
the psychological problems of a believer, it can appoint a representative to contact a mental health crisis unit,
adult or child protective agency, and/or the police about its concerns. Conveying confidential information to
duly authorized personnel when safety issues are a concern should not be considered a violation of
confidentiality.
It is important that Local Assemblies observe confidentiality in disclosing any information, particularly in the
field of mental illness or family conflicts, beyond what is needed as stated above. This includes not only the
substance or fact of consultation with or about the person but also any document in which references are
made to diagnosis or treatment. All such records should be protected, preferably separately from the
Assembly’s general minutes. Moreover, in discussing the mental state or behavioral disorder of an individual,
friends should avoid careless use of labels such as diagnosis (whether perceived or reported from a
professional). This will avoid spread of rumor outside of the Assembly which may have legal consequences or
would stigmatize such individuals in the community.
Assemblies should also recognize that it may be challenging for members of the institutions to maintain a
proper perspective in dealing with the behaviors of individuals with mental disorders. Members of Spiritual
Assemblies are not exempt from the influences and dysfunction of present day society and are, for the most
part, inexperienced in dealing with matters of mental disorders. Therefore, certain behaviors of some
believers may provoke inappropriate responses from members of the Assembly. Great vigilance is required on
the part of the institution itself to monitor its own responses when providing guidance to believers.
See also:
Consultation with Others — Confidentiality — Ch. 4
Confidential Materials — Highly Confidential Items May Be Recorded and Filed Separately — Ch. 4
SMOKING AT BAHÁ'Í MEETINGS
In answer to such letters the Guardian’s secretary replied on his behalf that Bahá’ís had no right to prevent
anyone from smoking; that Bahá’ís were free to smoke but it was preferable for them not to do so; and that an
issue should not be made of this matter. The use of tobacco, in common with other personal practices, should
be subject to considerations of courtesy. The Bahá’í in his daily life, whether smoker or non-smoker, should
always be conscious of the rights of those about him and avoid doing anything which would give offense.
Believers have also raised the question about smoking during Bahá’í meetings. It is entirely within the
authority of Local and National Spiritual Assemblies to prohibit smoking in meetings held under their
auspices. An Assembly may well feel that it does not wish to raise an additional barrier to seekers by
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
prohibiting smoking at public meetings in a society where it is the accepted practice to smoke. On the other
hand, it might be wise for the Assembly to caution the Bahá’ís to restrain their smoking at teaching meetings
and firesides in case it is offensive to some seekers. In the case of Nineteen Day Feasts or meetings of
Assemblies or committees, it is not right that friends who find smoking offensive should be made to endure it
in Bahá’í meetings which they are required or expected to attend. If certain individuals feel that they must
smoke, then arrangements, such as a break in the meeting, could be made for their convenience. It would, of
course, be entirely inappropriate to smoke during the devotional part of a Feast, or at any other devotional
gathering.
It is to be hoped that the widespread publicity being given to the evil effects of smoking, both on smokers and
on those who have to breathe smoke-laden air, will help to convince everyone of the wisdom of Άbdu'l-Bahá
in strongly discouraging Bahá’ís from smoking. However, Bahá’ís must be careful not to go beyond the
Teachings in this matter and try to enforce as a law a matter in which Bahá’u’lláh has deemed it wise to allow
freedom of decision.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated March 4, 1974, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1193
Just as smokers are expected to exercise courtesy in relation to others, non-smokers should exercise the
same courtesy and not take it upon themselves to lecture their fellow believers in what is essentially a
personal decision beyond what is detailed above.
See also:
The Bahá’í Fast — Smoking in Relation to the Fast — Ch. 10
WORLD WIDE WEB AND INTERNET USE
O ye the sincere loved ones of the Abhá Beauty! In these days the Cause of God, the world over, is fast
growing in power and, day by day, is spreading further and further to the utmost bounds of the earth. Its
enemies, therefore, from all the kindreds and peoples of the world, are growing aggressive, malevolent,
envious and bitterly hostile. It is incumbent upon the loved ones of God to exercise the greatest care and
prudence in all things, whether great or small, to take counsel together and unitedly resist the onslaught of the
stirrers up of strife and the movers of mischief. They must endeavour to consort in a friendly spirit with
everyone, must follow moderation in their conduct, must have respect and consideration one for another and
show loving-kindness and tender regard to all the peoples of the world.
Άbdu'l-Bahá, Selections from the Writings of Άbdu'l-Bahá, p. 233
A mechanism of world inter-communication will be devised, embracing the whole planet, freed from
national hindrances and restrictions, and functioning with marvellous swiftness and perfect regularity.
Shoghi Effendi, The World Order of Bahá'u'lláh, p. 203
There is an ever increasing use by believers of the internet and other available computer based means of
communication. These open unlimited possibilities for continuous proclamation and teaching, bringing the
Creative Word and the Sacred Writings as well as the ideas of individual believers to hearts and minds
everywhere.
Letter from the International Teaching Center, dated May 11, 1995, to a Continental Counselor, in Electronic Communication with
Covenant-breakers
The internet presents powerful and exciting opportunities for creativity, service, and individual initiative, which
challenges the Bahá'í community to rise to a higher level of maturity. It demands a heightened level of
sensitivity to and awareness of the needs of the global community and of respect for the values and problems
of other cultures as Bahá'ís learn to utilize this “mechanism for world inter-communication” in ways that are
consistent with the teachings of Bahá'u'lláh and the vision of the Guardian.
When concerns come to the attention of Assemblies about use of the internet by believers, they should be
handled with care and restraint, in as limited a manner as possible. The Universal House of Justice has often
been asked about list servers and the internet usage. Its general approach has been that these are new and
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
experimental media; that like all media for speech, the Bahá'í principles of consultation, not to mention
common sense and courtesy, apply; that the medium seems to be self-regulating and that, by and large, self-
regulation has been adequate.
In 2004, the Bahá’í Internet Agency was established by the Universal House of Justice and operates under
the guidance of the International Teaching Center, to “[assist] the global Bahá’í community in its use of the
internet, [provide] technical support to Bahá’í institutions and [support] promising initiatives of individuals.” For
information regarding websites and individual use on the internet, visit the Bahai Internet Agency’s website,
www.bcca.org/bia or contact the Office of Communications at communications@usbnc.org.
EXTERNAL ISSUES
DISASTERS
I am however assured and sustained by the conviction, never dimmed in my mind, that whatsoever comes to
pass in the Cause of God, however disquieting in its immediate effects, is fraught with infinite Wisdom and
tends ultimately to promote its interests in the world. Indeed, our experiences of the distant past, as well as of
recent events, are too numerous and varied to permit of any misgiving or doubt as to the truth of this basic
principle — a principle which throughout the vicissitudes of our sacred mission in this world we must never
disregard or forget.
Shoghi Effendi, Bahá’í Administration, p. 27
Having said all the foregoing, we pause to assure you of our full awareness of the great burdens you carry
and of the ceaseless calls upon you to render services in the absence of adequate resources. Do not despair.
Your capacity to respond will match any challenge that may confront you in these troubled times; you have
only to act on principle. Your community's past has been glorious; its future is great beyond calculation. The
divine promises to your community are certain; the blessings of Bahá'u'lláh are assured as you strive to fulfill
His purpose. The wings of the beloved Master remain spread over you that you may succeed in discharging
the tasks He has especially entrusted to your care. And our love ever surrounds you and your cherished
community, growing stronger at every moment. Step forward then to meet the requirements of the hour with
undiminished hope and confidence.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated May 19, 1994, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Rights and Responsibilities: The
Complementary Roles of the Individual and Institutions, pp. 49-50
Bewildered, agonized and helpless, [humanity] watches this great and mighty wind of God invading the
remotest and fairest regions of the earth, rocking its foundations, deranging its equilibrium, sundering its
nations, disrupting the homes of its peoples, wasting its cities, driving into exile its kings, pulling down its
bulwarks, uprooting its institutions, dimming its light, and harrowing up the souls of its inhabitants.
Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day Is Come, p. 3
Ours rather the duty, however confused the scene, however dismal the present outlook, however
circumscribed the resources we dispose of, to labor serenely, confidently, and unremittingly to lend our share
of assistance, in whichever way circumstances may enable us, to the operation of the forces which, as
marshaled and directed by Bahá'u'lláh, are leading humanity out of the valley of misery and shame to the
loftiest summits of power and glory.
Shoghi Effendi, The Promised Day Is Come, p.124
Your concern about the future in these troubled times is understandable. There is every reason to expect that
the world will experience travail and testing as never before, but we do not know what form these upheavals
will take, when exactly they will come, how severe they will be, nor how long they will last. In a letter dated
30 September 1950 written on behalf of the beloved Guardian to an individual believer, it is stated:
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
He does not feel that fear — for ourselves or for others — solves any problems, or enables us to better meet it
if it ever does arise. We do not know what the future holds exactly, or how soon we may all pass through
another ordeal worse than the last one.
The important aspect for the Bahá'ís is that their attitude and actions in response to the pending catastrophe be
correct. We all know that the Cause of Bahá'u'lláh is the world's only salvation, and that our duty is to actively
teach receptive souls, and to do our utmost to help in the consolidation of the institutions of the Faith. Only in
this way can we contribute our share of servitude at His Threshold, and we should then leave the rest to Him.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 13, 1980, to an individual believer, in Messages from the
Universal House of Justice, 1963–1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, par. 252.3-252.4
Bahá'ís need to be prepared both spiritually and materially to respond to disastrous events, and to assist
others to respond, as well. Recent natural disasters demonstrated some basic issues that local communities
should address which are generalized below. In a real sense, Bahá'ís simply need to do two things they have
always done and are becoming increasingly skilled at doing through the cluster and institute processes: teach
and build community.
Qualities of Successful Response
Immediacy and Creativity of Local Believers
The Bahá'í community's experience with Hurricanes Katrina and Rita gave ample evidence of the friends'
spontaneous creativity, generosity and dedication as they responded to the needs of Bahá'ís and non-Bahá'ís
alike. A wide latitude of action should be given the friends to follow the dictates of conscience and motivation,
as they are capable of devising innovative solutions to urgent problems as they arise.
Adapt Core Activities Skills to New Needs
Years of work in establishing children’s classes, devotional gatherings and study circles have provided local
Bahá'í communities with a skill set and a structure of activities which they have used to good advantage in
extreme situations. The Hurricane Katrina example showed how the ability to create and staff children’s
activities was both recognized and valued in these new circumstances. Devotional gatherings were also used
by the friends to offer a place where they and their fellow citizens could focus on the disaster, provide spiritual
aid to the dispossessed and sort through the upheaval they were witnessing. Familiarity with the service or
practice component of the study circle process enabled the friends more easily to organize food drives and
other local forms of direct assistance adapted to situational needs.
Plans Need Not Be Complex
It is impossible to anticipate the features of a future disaster, a fact which argues against elaborate response
plans. Because Bahá'í communities and institutions are not relief agencies, there are limits to what they can
and should do in response to a disaster. The focus of the friends on the Faith's mission and on the goals of
the current teaching plan have been instrumental in shaping a spiritually oriented response to disaster,
whether on the part of those directly impacted, or of those who come to the aid of others in need.
While Bahá'ís should never lose sight of the mission of the Faith or goals of whichever Plan is in progress,
they should not seek to take advantage of a crisis to teach in a crass way, or to claim credit for their services;
the orientation must be toward selfless service in a manner consistent with Bahá'í principles.
One of the most salient strengths of the Bahá'í community is its diversity. Planners should do their best to
appreciate and draw upon that diversity. Differences in personality, aptitudes, skills and training determine to a
great extent the ways in which people are more or less effective in actual crisis situations.
An essential ingredient of any disaster recovery plan is to fully and effectively communicate the emergency
plan to those it will affect, to be sure believers are informed about where they can turn for help, and to
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
practice carrying out whichever components of the plan are possible to practice. The practice afforded
believers through the institute process is what enabled Bahá'í communities affected by the hurricanes to
effectively implement responses to the conditions presented.
See also:
Relationship between the Elected and the Appointed — Ch. 1
Bahá'í Institutions Are Bulwark
We must recognize that Bahá'u'lláh established institutions which are the bulwark of His World Order.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 2, 1976, to an individual believer
Local Spiritual Assemblies Form Network of Stewardship
Local Spiritual Assemblies are the stewards of their communities. If the Local Assembly itself is not
temporarily dislocated as a result of the disaster, it can be the rock upon which the friends can steady
themselves and seek solace.
An Assembly should consider how it will function to carry out its emergency plans and serve the community in
the event its regular meetings are disrupted and/or one or more members become unavailable.
See also:
Decisions between Meetings — Ch. 4
Regional Councils First Resource When Assemblies Dislocated
Regional Councils are an essential link in the administrative network of the Faith, more intimately familiar with
the human resources, development and conditions of the localities in their region, closer and better placed to
respond to immediate needs than offices at the national level.
National Center Functions as Clearinghouse
Efforts at the national headquarters are, in time of crisis, divided between two major lines of action that
operate from a broader perspective than regional or local levels of administration:
Meeting current needs: creating infrastructure and mechanisms for information and funds flows, resolving
regional problems and communicating with the Bahá'ís nationally and globally
Thinking strategically: reaching out to non-Bahá'í sources for information, asking “what next” questions about
recovery and future needs and assessing community and humanitarian resources for meeting them.
Aspects of Preparing and Planning
Following are suggestions concerning different aspects of preparing and planning based upon past learnings.
Given that communities have widely differing needs it is beyond the scope of this document to provide all the
information that might be needed.
See also:
Appointments as Needed by Community — Emergency Preparedness — Ch. 3
Coordination with Government and Humanitarian Agencies
Local communities may wish to promote and achieve higher visibility vis-à-vis local relief agencies, non-profits
and local governments as a way to participate in disaster response in the planning stages, especially on
issues with implications for social values and attitudes. This could also streamline the process of mobilizing
community resources in times of crisis, locating displaced Bahá'ís and assessing needs, since existing relief
agencies often have vital information the Bahá'ís do not.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Before making such contacts, Assemblies should be thoroughly familiar with guidance from the National
Spiritual Assembly’s Office of Public Affairs regarding contact with officials and non-Bahá'í organizations, and
should educate the community about such contacts. Contact the Office of Public Affairs at
http://publicaffairs.bahai.us/, bahaisus@usbnc.org or (202)833-8990 for more information.
Community Preparedness
Community membership lists should be corrected and kept current in the National Membership Database at
the Bahá'í National Center, so accurate records of believers are available for identifying and following up the
Bahá'í population in the event of a disaster.
Assemblies are encouraged to collect information to better enable them to serve the friends in their care
should an emergency occur, whether a widespread disaster or an individual situation such as the death of a
community member without local family. Each Assembly should create a list of information it would need to
suit the particular circumstances and needs of its community.
It is suggested that a broad range of information be gathered from believers, similar to the information on the
sample form, Emergency Contact Information Sheet to facilitate:
•
Contacting relatives or friends
•
Locating a person who may have been evacuated from the area
•
Aiding and assisting disaster victims with health or other issues
•
Assessing community resources
•
Preparing a disaster plan
•
Being better able to respond to any number of unanticipated situations.
The Emergency Contact Information Sheet is available on the national Bahai community website in the
Supplements to Guidelines section.
All such information should be preserved with the utmost confidentiality and kept in a safe but readily
accessible place. Assemblies should not send emergency information forms to the Bahá'í National Center.
Each Assembly should be sure to let the members of its community know of various ways to contact it, the
Regional Bahá'í Council, and the National Spiritual Assembly during emergencies and any procedures it
would like them to follow.
See also:
Appointments as Needed by Community — Emergency Preparedness — Ch.3
Checking Credentials — Local Assemblies Are Not to Provide Credentials — Ch. 5
Uses of Bahá'í Membership Data — Ch. 5
Bahá'í Community Called upon to Distinguish Itself — Ch. 6
And in Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies — Role of Individuals — Defend Self and Protect Others from Harm, as well as various indexed
topics
Personal Preparedness
Assemblies may want to encourage believers to prepare a personal safety plan and to collect emergency
supplies and essential documents that might be needed in an emergency or disaster. There are many
sources for information on what such a plan might entail and what supplies and documents might be needed.
Communications
To facilitate communications with communities, the Office of Membership and Records at the Bahá'í National
Center needs to have detailed contact information, including the personal email address, for Assembly
members, particularly the officers. Records for members of the Assembly should be kept up-to-date in the
National Membership Database at all times, as one or more might be out of contact in a disaster making it
necessary for the agencies of the Faith to have alternate contacts.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
In addition:
•
Each community should establish a communication plan that includes contacts who are likely to be
outside a disaster-affected area. This plan should be shared with the Bahá'ís, so they know where to
turn, and where to check in, when the need arises.
•
(800) 22-UNITE currently can serve as a supplement or backup, though not a replacement, for local
provisions for locating displaced community members.
•
Email and text messaging after Hurricane Katrina often worked when land line and cellular phones
did not; community email and cell phone lists should be considered by communities that do not
already have them, and this information be included in the members’ contact information given each
Local Spiritual Assembly.
•
Local Assemblies can identify commercial services that can assist with communications. For
example: there are a variety of web-based services that automatically call an organization’s
membership database and play a recorded message as a means of broadcasting information and
alerts.
•
Local Assembly Secretaries should use their Assembly email accounts as the first place they turn for
information and alerts from the National Assembly, if their internet connection is functioning.
Assemblies that do not regularly check their agency email may not be as current and well-informed as
those who do. Assemblies may wish to investigate acquiring solar-powered laptops, batteries, or
other communications devices that would be able to operate independently during power outages.
•
The national Bahá’í community website at American.bahai.us is the National Spiritual Assembly’s
primary method of up-to-date general communication.
•
As some members of the community may not have cell phones or computers, and for emergencies
when available technologies fail to work, Assemblies may also wish to devise alternate plans for
contacting community members.
Resources
There are many disaster planning materials and websites that offer useful information and ideas for all
aspects of personal safety and disaster recovery. Local governments may also be able to provide referrals to
resources suitable and/or available in the area.
Just a few of the many useful internet resources are:
•
U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at www.fema.gov which provides a list of
state emergency management planning offices that may offer useful planning resources and contact
information to local communities.
•
Reuters Foundation AlertNet at www.alertnet.org which offers multiple resources, an NGO (Non-
Governmental Organization) directory of humanitarian agencies, and resources for disaster response
training.
•
One thorough and well-organized state-level planning site is www.readycolorado.com which offers
checklists across a wide range of situational needs, information about different kinds of disasters, and
links to further information.
IMMIGRATION
Bahá’í institutions have no influence on the application for refugee status ... They [Bahá'ís seeking refugee
resettlement] are solely responsible for their own financial needs and resettlement arrangements. It should be
noted that the Bahá’ís in Iran are aware of this guidance.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated November 21, 2002, to a National Spiritual Assembly
If a Bahá'í comes to a Local Spiritual Assembly with specific immigration questions, the Assembly may wish to
suggest that the individual contact governmental or service agencies or an immigration attorney (without
recommending any attorney or agency in particular) in the area where they live.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Local Assemblies should not become involved with the legal aspects of refugee, immigration and asylum
issues. They should not write to the United States Citizenship and Immigration Service or the Department of
Homeland Security in an attempt to verify the Bahá'í membership of an immigrant believer, or for any other
reason.
If an Assembly is contacted by an agency of the federal government, it should seek advice from the National
Spiritual Assembly’s Office of Public Affairs at (202) 833-8990 or bahaisus@usbnc.org before responding.
See also:
Participation — Interpreters — Ch. 4
Resource Files — Ch. 4
Considerations for Diverse Populations — Immigrants — Ch. 6
Pretending to Be Bahá'í for Purposes of Immigration — Ch. 9
And in Guidelines for Spiritual Assemblies on Domestic Violence: A Supplement to Guidelines for Local Spiritual
Assemblies — Special Considerations — Immigrant Victims Should Not Be Afraid of Deportation
Resettlement Agencies
Spiritual Assemblies should be aware that there are a number of resettlement agencies that can offer services
to refugees upon their arrival in the United States, usually for a period of 30–90 days. Several national
agencies have contracts with the federal government and may help refugees obtain clothing, housing, and
household furnishings. In addition, they may offer English as a second language programs, assist in enrolling
children in school, arrange for medical care, and help obtain a Social Security card to enable the refugee(s) to
find work and become self-supporting. Agencies on the state level, on a case-by-case basis may offer similar
programs including family counseling and some financial support until the refugees become self-reliant.
Who to Contact for Questions Related to Persian Bahá'í Refugees
Questions or concerns related to the resettlement of Persian Bahá'í refugees should be referred to the
following offices:
•
Membership issues — membership status, name or contact information changes — contact the Office
of Membership and Records at membership@usbnc.org
•
Concerns specific to Persian believers — contact the Office of Persian-American Affairs at
persian@usbnc.org
•
Other concerns that have arisen in a local community following the resettlement of refugees in that
community — contact the Office of Community Administration at community@usbnc.org
•
Questions about contact and/or collaboration with national and international refugee agencies —
contact the Office of Public Affairs at bahaisus@usbnc.org
•
Questions about contact with the United States' government concerning refugee issues that are not
legal or visa issues — contact the Office of Public Affairs at bahaisus@usbnc.org
Local Spiritual Assemblies must avoid becoming involved in legal matters of immigration, asylum, or refugee
status.
See also:
Credentials of Bahá'ís from Other Countries — Ch. 5
Transfer into the United States — Ch. 5
Handling Violations of Bahá'í Law — Misconduct by Iranian Refugees — Ch. 10
Immigration — Ch. 14
Application for Citizenship
In an application for citizenship the applicant, among other things, is asked whether he or she is willing to
bear arms on behalf of the United States if the law requires it, and whether he or she is willing to perform
noncombatant services (i.e., service in any unit of the armed forces which does not require the use of arms in
combat, such as service in the medical department of any of the armed forces), if called upon to do so.
Bahá'ís should answer “yes” to both of these questions. As Bahá'ís are obligated to obey the laws of the
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
government under which they live, including federal laws regarding military service, they must be willing to
serve in the military, if obligated to do so (in which case they should apply for non-combatant status on the
basis of religious beliefs). A letter outlining the Bahá'í position on military service and preference for non-
combatant status, which also confirms that the individual is a member of the United States Bahá’í community,
is available upon request by contacting the National Spiritual Assembly. The letter should not be needed,
however, if the two questions are answered correctly in the initial application.
See also:
Military Service — Ch. 14
Immigration Violations
Although Assemblies should always counsel the believers to be obedient to civil law, it is not necessary or
desirable for Assemblies to attempt to enforce civil law. The legal system in the United States is complicated,
and sometimes actions that appear to be violations of law are not found to be so upon further investigation, or
upon consideration by the courts. The civil authorities are charged with this responsibility and Bahá'í
Assemblies should not interfere in the civil processes. Immigration laws are particularly complex, and it is not
possible to make generalizations as to whether a particular act constitutes a violation of law under a given set
of circumstances.
MEMBERSHIP IN OTHER ORGANIZATIONS
Holding Office in Non-Bahá'í Organizations
The Alaska Public Employees Association appears to be a type of union organization. As long as this and
other associations, such as the special interest groups you mention, are not affiliated with any political party
and are not involved in political activities there is no objection to Bahá'ís belonging to them nor to their
holding office in them.
As for participation in elections of non-Bahá'í organizations which are open to Bahá'ís but which employ
electional methods different from Bahá'í practices, believers need not avoid the election procedures carried
out in such organizations.
In all such activities the friends should bear in mind the following exhortation so clearly set forth by the
beloved Guardian in a letter dated February 20, 1927 to the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States
and Canada:
Fully aware of the repeated statements of ‘Abdu'l-Bahá that universality is of God, Bahá'ís in every land
are ready, nay anxious, to associate themselves by word and deed with any association of men which,
after careful scrutiny, they feel satisfied is free from every tinge of partisanship and politics and is wholly
devoted to the interests of all mankind ... . They should always bear in mind, however, the dominating
purpose of such collaboration, which is to secure in time the recognition by those with whom they are
associating of the paramount necessity and the true significance of the Bahá'í Revelation in this day.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated January 4, 1979, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of
Guidance, no. 1403
Other Religions
See also:
Behaviors Subject to Administrative Sanctions — Membership in Certain Organizations — Ch. 10
Political Parties
See also:
Behaviors Subject to Administrative Sanctions — Membership in Certain Organizations — Ch. 10
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Secret Societies
See also:
Behaviors Subject to Administrative Sanctions — Membership in Certain Organizations — Ch. 10
Trade Unions
On the question of trade unions the Guardian's secretary made the following comment on his behalf in a
letter dated 2 February 1951.
“Regarding your question about trade unions: The Guardian considers that this is a matter for each
National Spiritual Assembly to advise the believers on. As long as the trade unions are not members of
any particular political party, there does not seem to be any objection to the Bahá'ís belonging to them.”
... the British National Spiritual Assembly wrote to the Guardian as follows:
“In this country the law recognises strikes as legal when called by properly constituted authorities such as
a Trade Union, and our own understanding is that in such circumstances the Bahá'í teaching, in spite of
Άbdu'l-Bahá's express disapproval of strikes, neither requires nor forbids an individual to strike but leaves
him free to decide for himself in the particular circumstances of his case what is the proper course of
action.”
The Guardian's secretary replied on his behalf in a letter dated July 11, 1956:
“As regard strikes, the Guardian feels that your own understanding of the matter as expressed in your
letter is quite correct, and he does not see the necessity of adding anything to it. We should avoid
becoming rigid and laying down any more rules and regulations of conduct.”
Based on the above guidelines, we are to emphasize the following points.
1. A Bahá'í can become a member of a trade union as long as he is not required to also join a political party.
2. Άbdu'l-Bahá in general disapproved of strikes. The Bahá'í attitude is that when the law recognizes strikes as
legal, as when called by a properly constituted authority such as a trade union, the Bahá'í teaching neither
requires nor forbids an individual to participate in the strike but leaves him free to decide for himself what is
the proper course of action in the particular circumstances.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated June 23, 1985, to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance,
no. 2121
MILITARY SERVICE
General Principles
Bahá’ís recognize the right and duty of governments to use force for the maintenance of law and order and to
protect their people. Thus, for a Bahá’í, the shedding of blood for such a purpose is not necessarily essentially
wrong. The Bahá’í Faith draws a very definite distinction between the duty of an individual to forgive and “to
be killed rather than to kill” and the duty of society to uphold justice. This matter is explained by Άbdu'l-Bahá
in Some Answered Questions. In the present condition of the world Bahá’ís try to keep themselves out of the
internecine conflicts that are raging among their fellow men and to avoid shedding blood in such struggles,
but this does not mean that we are absolute pacifists.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated February 9, 1967, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1354
See also:
Behaviors Subject to Administrative Sanctions — Self-defense — Ch. 10
Immigration — Application for Citizenship — Ch.14
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Identification as Bahá'í in Military Service
Every Bahá'í in military service should request identification as a Bahá'í. This may facilitate burial according to
Bahá'í law should death occur while in service.
See also:
Bahá'ís in Military Service and Veterans — Ch. 13
Non-Combatant Status
There are many other avenues through which the believers can assist in a time of war by enlisting in services
of a non-combatant nature - services that do not involve the direct shedding of blood - such as ambulance
work, air raid precaution service, office and administrative works, and it is for such types of national service
that they should volunteer.
It is immaterial whether such activities would still expose them to dangers, either at home or in the front,
since their desire is not to protect their lives, but to desist from any acts of willful murder.
Shoghi Effendi, in Principles of Bahá’í Administration, pp. 95–96
We think that Bahá’ís should be discouraged from seeking or continuing a career in the military, and that in
any event they must, in obedience to the Guardian’s clear instructions, apply for exemptions from military
duty which necessitates the taking of human life.
When the law imposes an obligation upon citizens to fulfill a term of military service, as the U.S. Selective
Service Act does, and a Bahá’í may fulfill this term of service by enlisting, re-enlisting or by being
commissioned as an officer, he may do so provided he does not in any way jeopardize his right to “apply for
and maintain the noncombatant status” within the spirit of the above principle.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 20, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
[T]here is no objection to a Bahá’í’s enlisting voluntarily in the armed forces of a country in order to obtain
a training in some trade or profession, provided that he can do so without making himself liable to undertake
combatant service.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated January 13, 1981, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1357
Note: Enlistees may be able to specify non-combatant status in their contracts but should be sure the
language is unambiguous and does not contain exceptions.
Sanctions should not be imposed for violation of these instructions. It is for each believer, under pain of his
own conscience, to determine for himself what his actions should be, bearing in mind that the application of
these principles is the spiritual obligation of every Bahá’í. It is rather for your Assembly to see that adequate
instruction is provided so that the friends will let these principles be mirrored forth in their actions, and that
they will be so steadfast in their love for Bahá’u’lláh that it would be unthinkable for them to willingly place
themselves in a position where they must take human life.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated September 20, 1965, to a National Spiritual Assembly
The Bahá’í teachings require that followers of the Faith obey the laws of the government under which they
live. Bahá’ís do not seek to abandon their obligations as citizens on the grounds of religious conviction;
instead, they are able to reconcile their fundamental spiritual convictions and their civil obligations as citizens
by applying for non-combatant service under the existing laws and regulations. They try to serve as members
of the Armed Forces in the medical corps or in any capacity in which they may legally maintain a non-
combatant status regardless of the effect which that may have on their personal safety, convenience, the kind
of activity they must discharge or the rank to which they may be assigned.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Bahá'ís Not Pacifists or Conscientious Objectors
With reference to the absolute pacifists, or conscientious objectors to war; their attitude, judged from the
Bahá’í standpoint, is quite anti-social and due to its exaltation of the individual conscience leads inevitably to
disorder and chaos in society. Extreme pacifists are thus very close to the anarchists, in the sense that both of
these groups lay an undue emphasis on the rights and merits of the individual. The Bahá’í conception of social
life is essentially based on the subordination of the individual will to that of society. It neither suppresses the
individual nor does it exalt him to the point of making him an anti-social creature, a menace to society. As in
everything, it follows the “golden mean.” The only way that society can function is for the minority to follow
the will of the majority.
The other main objection to the conscientious objectors is that their method of establishing peace is too
negative. Non-cooperation is too passive a philosophy to become an effective way for social reconstruction.
Their refusal to bear arms can never establish peace. There should first be a spiritual revitalization which
nothing, except the Cause of God, can effectively bring to every man’s heart.
Shoghi Effendi, Directives from the Guardian, no. 144
Personnel Who Become Bahá'í While in Military Service
A person who becomes a Bahá'í while engaged in military service, and who does not already have non-
combatant status has an obligation to the government to finish out his or her term of duty as was honorably
committed to do. However, it may be possible to obtain de facto non-combatant status by transferring to a
selected duty which does not call for physical fighting; such transfer should be accomplished in such fashion
as not to impair relationships with responsible superiors, and without there being any question of his or her
willingness to serve without regard for personal safety, comfort, or type of service to which he or she may be
assigned.
Selective Service, Obligation to Register for
With very few exceptions, all men in the United States from the age of 18 through 25 are required by law to
register with the Selective Service System. Registration may be accomplished online at www.sss.gov or via
forms that are available through local Post Offices. Bahá’í youth may wish to request non-combatant status at
the time they register with the Selective Service but are not required to do so at that time. Should a draft be
instituted, those affected should contact the National Assembly for specific instructions.
NON-BAHÁ'Í CULTURAL AND RELIGIOUS EVENTS
Preserving Inherited Cultural Identities
[A] primary challenge to Bahá'ís is to preserve and improve those wholesome aspects of tribal and family
custom that are in accord with the Bahá’í Teachings and to dispense with those that are not ... . People
everywhere have customs which must be abandoned so as to clear the path along which their societies must
evolve towards that glorious, new civilization which is to be the fruit of Bahá’u’lláh’s stupendous Revelation.
Indeed, in no society on earth can there be found practices which adequately mirror the standards of His
Cause.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated Riḍván 1996, to the followers of Bahá’u’lláh in Africa, in Turning
Point, Selected Messages of the Universal House of Justice and Supplementary Material, 1996-2006, par. 5.8
Bahá’ís should obviously be encouraged to preserve their inherited cultural identities, as long as the activities
involved do not contravene the principles of the Faith. The perpetuation of such cultural characteristics is an
expression of unity in diversity. Although most of these festive celebrations have no doubt stemmed from
religious rituals in bygone ages, the believers should not be deterred from participating in those in which, over
the course of time, the religious meaning has given way to purely culturally oriented practices….
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
In deciding whether or not to participate in such traditional activities, the Bahá’í must guard against two
extremes. The one is to disassociate themselves needlessly from harmless cultural observances and thus
alienate themselves from their non-Bahá’í families and friends; the other is to continue the practice of
abrogated observances of previous dispensations and thus undermine the independence of the Bahá’í Faith
and create undesirable distinctions between themselves and their fellow-Bahá’ís. In this connection there is a
difference between what Bahá’ís do among themselves and what they do in companionship with their non-
Bahá’í friends and relations. For example, in a letter written on behalf of the Guardian there appears the
following guidance:
As regards the celebration of the Christian Holidays by the believers, it is surely preferable and even
highly advisable that the Friends should in their relation to each other discontinue observing such
holidays as Christmas and New Year, and to have their festival gatherings of this nature instead during the
intercalary days and Naw-Rúz.*
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 26, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly
*Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated March 19, 1938,
to an individual believer, in Lights of Guidance, no. 1029
See also:
Room for Variety — Preservation of Cultural Identity — Ch. 7
Attending Ceremonies of Other Religions
Further, there is no objection for Bahá’ís to attend religious marriage ceremonies of their friends and relatives
or take part in festivities usually connected with these events, provided that in doing so they do not
contravene Bahá’í Law. For example, if consuming alcoholic beverages is a part of such activities, the
Bahá’ís, of course, would be obliged to refrain from partaking of such drinks.
There are some exclusive religious ceremonies in which Bahá’ís should not participate, in order to safeguard
the independence of the Faith. In this regard, the beloved Guardian has given the following advice to an
individual believer: “In these days the friends should, as much as possible, demonstrate through their deeds
the independence of the Holy Faith of God, and its freedom from the customs, rituals and practices of a
discredited and abrogated past.” In observing this principle, the House of Justice advises the Bahá’ís to
maintain a balance between their adherence to the Cause and obedience to its laws on the one hand, and their
role in society on the other. When an individual becomes a Bahá’í he acquires, as you are aware, a wider
loyalty to the Manifestations of God. Having found this new way of life, he should be careful not to isolate
himself from his family and his people, and he should show respect for his former religion. The Bahá’ís
should, of course, avoid performing any acts which could be considered as implying their membership in
another religion or which are contrary to Bahá’í Principles. There is a clear distinction between participating
in festive and cultural events, as opposed to performing religious ceremonies and rituals.
It should also be remembered that the weaning away of the Bahá’ís from customs and traditions, which have
been established among communities for centuries, takes time and is a gradual process. Therefore, while the
National Assembly should avoid rigidity in these matters, it should also not compromise when the interests of
the Faith and its integrity and independence are at stake.
Letter written on behalf of the Universal House of Justice, dated May 26, 1982, to a National Spiritual Assembly
See also:
Change Evolutionary and Inevitable — Ch. 11
BAHÁ'Í PRISONERS
Although Assemblies are discouraged from initiating teaching projects in prisons, it is inevitable that some
believers will have served prison sentences or become incarcerated and that some will enroll while in prison.
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Contact with Prisoners
There is no reason why a prisoner should not be accepted as a declared believer on the same basis as anybody
else. They are now expiating their crime against society, and, if their hearts have changed, and they accept the
Cause, there is no reason why they should be excluded from membership.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated April 23, 1955, to a local Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 251
A prisoner, showing sincere faith in the Cause, may be accepted as a Bahá’í on the same basis of
investigating his qualifications as to belief as any other individual outside prison. Each case should be
carefully considered on its own merits. Naturally, a person in confinement cannot be active in any community
and administrative work. When he gets out, he becomes part of the community in which he resides. No new
ruling is required in this matter. All other details in relation to prisoners can be decided by the National
Spiritual Assembly concerned as they arise.
Letter written on behalf of Shoghi Effendi, dated August 5, 1955, to an individual believer, in The Unfolding Destiny of the British
Bahá'í Community, p. 352
The National Spiritual Assembly feels that it is in the best interest of the Faith in the United States at this time
to discourage Local Spiritual Assemblies, representatives and individual believers from initiating teaching
projects in prisons. It sometimes happens, however, that a believer’s professional or volunteer work, family or
personal associations, will bring them in contact with prisoners who may inquire about the Bahá’í Faith. While
individuals are not prohibited from teaching prisoners, they should regard this activity as a personal project in
much the same way as teaching the Faith at a fireside in one’s home. Bahá’ís in prison are free to teach their
religion to fellow prisoners.
Restrictions on Practice of Faith in Prisons
[T]hose who accept Bahá’u’lláh under these conditions [imprisonment] cannot undertake administrative
responsibilities, nor can Local Assemblies be formed in prisons.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated February 9, 1972, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Lights of Guidance, no. 25
Bahá'ís serving prison sentences may participate in Bahá'í activities permitted by prison policies and their
personal circumstances. They are encouraged to observe the laws applicable between the individual and God
to the extent their circumstances allow. As with other believers, they are free to teach the Faith and, if prison
policy allows, hold Bahá'í activities such as firesides, study circles and devotional gatherings within the prison.
In addition to the prohibition by the Universal House of Justice on carrying out administrative activities in
prisons, the National Spiritual Assembly has placed the following restrictions upon the practice of the Faith by
believers who are serving prison sentences:
•
The American Bahá'í is not to be sent or given to prisoners
•
Community newsletters and bulletins are not to be sent or given to prisoners.
•
Prisoners are not to be provided with community membership lists under any circumstances.
Under no circumstances should individuals in contact with prisoners give out addresses, telephone numbers
or personal information concerning others without prior explicit permission from the party or parties involved.
See also:
Special Issues — Prisoners — Ch. 2
Laws between Individual and God — Ch. 10
Release from Prison
[Y]ou instance the difficulties of local communities which are faced with the task of reorienting and
integrating into the Cause new believers who enter with all sorts of immoral and even criminal tendencies
from their former life. This is indeed difficult, but this is the very stuff of the work of the Cause. The Bahá'í
Revised April 2016

Guidelines for Local Spiritual Assemblies
Ch. 14 – Other Issues Brought Before the Assembly
Faith not only provides teachings in accordance with which the behavior of human beings can be reformed,
but also makes available a spiritual power which reinforces the devoted efforts of every believer, whether
veteran or neophyte. Arising to serve the Cause has, itself, a transforming effect upon believers, as the
beloved Guardian wrote with respect to service upon Spiritual Assemblies: "If we but turn our gaze to the
high qualifications of the members of Bahá'í Assemblies, as enumerated in ‘Abdu'l-Bahá's Tablets, we are
filled with feelings of unworthiness and dismay, and would feel truly disheartened but for the comforting
thought that if we arise to play nobly our part every deficiency in our lives will be more than compensated by
the all-conquering spirit of His grace and power." Thus, what is most imperative for the promotion of the
spiritual life of local Bahá'í communities is the stimulation of the believers to increase their devotion to
Bahá'u'lláh, their absolute reliance upon Him and upon His love, and their determination to apply His
teachings in every aspect of their lives. This stimulation can be conveyed from heart to heart and mind to
mind by devoted Bahá'ís without the need of formal training.
Letter from the Universal House of Justice, dated December 2, 1976, to a National Spiritual Assembly, in Messages from the Universal
House of Justice, 1963-1986: The Third Epoch of the Formative Age, p. 349
When an Assembly learns that an incarcerated believer is due to be released into its jurisdiction, it may wish
to consult with the prison administration and social service agencies to learn what services, such as shelter,
health care (including mental health), employment, transportation, and training might be available to the
former prisoner upon his or her release. However, when such services do not meet all the needs of the
released prisoner, the Assembly should exercise wisdom in determining what support, if any, it may decide to
offer.
Assemblies may also wish to contact the Office of Community Administration at the Bahá'í National Center at
(847) 733-3485 or community@usbnc.org for additional guidance in addressing the needs of families of
incarcerated believers and/or of prisoners recently or about to be released.
The Local Assembly should report the release of a Bahá'í prisoner to the Office of Membership and Records
of the Bahá'í National Center on a Bahá'í Membership Data Report form.
See also:
Resource Files — Ch. 4
Other Enrollment Considerations — Prisoners — Ch. 5
Restoration of Administrative Rights — Ch. 10
Revised April 2016