CHALLENGE
Helping Our Children Find Meaning and Purpose
An Introduction to The Quest
Harlan Carl Scheffler
GEORGE RONALD PUBLISHER
OXFORD

George Ronald, Publisher
Oxford
www.grbooks.com
Copyright © Harlan Carl Scheffler 2006
All Rights Reserved
ISBN:  978-0-85398-506-8
0-85398-506-5
Illustrations by the author
Acknowledgement is made to the following for use of
copyrighted illustrations:
Kraft Foods, Inc.: page 15
Dynamic Graphics, Inc.: pages 4, 7, 10, 16, 20, 22, 25, 34, 36
This essay is Part l of a larger work by Harlan Carl Scheffler, The Quest
(ISBN 978-0-85398-503-7 also available from the publisher)
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library

CONTENTS
Connections  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Affinity Abounds  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
The Great Mystery  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Cause and Effect  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Knowledge and Understanding  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Diversity  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
Consequences  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
Education and Competition  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
From Atom to Art  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
The Mischief-maker  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
v

Connections
I
n 1922, when I took my place in the course of human affairs,
the world was very different. The span of a lifetime such as
mine was to witness unprecedented milestones. The beginnings of
technology and the downfall of isolationism apparently were
destined to take place in this microsecond of our history – can
you imagine! I was the child who toyed with the crystal set,
touching the needle to connect with the hidden sounds, and I was
the youngster turning the pages of the National Geographic,
wondering about the remote lands and peoples, pondering the
strange countenances caught in a moment of time.

I can hardly believe I survived the perils of those days.
Collecting mercury from broken thermometers and rolling the
lethal ball in the palm of my hand was an adventure, but watching
its offspring come into existence with a tap of my finger was, I
thought, a miracle. Melting cubes of lead over the gas flame on my
mother’s stove and molding the heavy liquid to create cowboys
and Indians, carving smooth the seams with silvery-gray fingers,
was fun. And I’m still here to tell how my dad and I would go to
Hendrick’s Drug Store and buy chunks of potassium cyanide to
dispatch beetles and butterflies for my collection (hopefully
painlessly). Gracious!
And now I am seated at my computer, connected intimately
with the world. I know now, but I didn’t know then: listening and
touching and looking was my introduction to the mystical world
of insight.
Learning about the two worlds – the material one and the
more-than-material one – started when I was very young.
Nature always interested me. How can the caterpillar turn into
a butterfly? What makes things work? Vacations in the North
Woods, trips to the Natural History Museum and Aquarium and
Planetarium were part of the undisclosed agenda my parents had
planned for my sister Betty and me. How life, in all of its
aspects, presents itself, was the exciting fundamental of my
parents’ teaching. Had they not shared this secret, my sister and
I would have most likely travelled our paths unmindful and
unaware. As a family, we went about our business of work and
play, but inwardly our lives were directed by the oneness of this
wondrous material/non-material partnership. It was the central
theme that paved our way. Hence, when as a youngster I was on
my bicycle heading for the forest preserve to poke around in the
ponds and streams, or, much later, caring for the wounded on a
hospital ship in the South Pacific, my true home was in the non-
physical world.
How my bicycle and the forest pond and the countless
other happenstances of my life served to connect me with the
Challenge

non-physical side of things is a mystery, but certainly not just
my mystery. We all physically connect with the so-called
immaterial world:
• The eye looks, enabling sight, and sight welcomes perception.
• The ear hears, but listening is more, and meaning is even more.
• The finger touches, but feeling is revealed, and then distinction.
• The tongue tastes, taste summons flavour, and discernment
is born.
• The nose smells, but scent is invited to reveal sensitivity.
Our physical tools allow the non-physical realities to become
known, and with our ability to attribute significance to the signs
displayed, our own true identity comes forward.
My teachers at Haven School were well prepared to teach the
magic of numbers and letters, but the deeper meanings, toward
which these lessons could have led, were not addressed. And
Haven School was not alone.
From the outset, our children are introduced to a divided
world, a world where material things are true, and intangible, non-
material considerations are also true. The problem for our
youngsters is to figure out how, in the classroom, two truths can
be in contention with each other (or apparently so, for one can be
taught, and the other cannot). There must be some flaw in our
thinking, and how and what we are teaching, for reason tells us
that there can be only one truth; truth isn’t one thing – which can
also be two. Where are the experts who might help the children
with this conundrum?
As parents and guardians (teachers), let us not underestimate
our own competence. If truth is one, then we must look again at
what we have been taught and told, and find the flaw ourselves.
Connections

Affinity Abounds
S
ince the dawning of intellect, the quest to uncover the
fundamentals of life has been the mission of the inquiring
mind. Long before technology was to make its appearance,
thoughtful thinkers were thinking thoughtful thoughts. After our
species had fulfilled the requisites of our physical, intellectual, and

societal evolution – a germination spread over countless epochs
and eras – a Greek philosopher named Democritus came on the
scene. He theorized that if matter were divided into smaller and
smaller pieces, it would eventually reach a point where it could no
longer be divided. This smallest bit of matter was called átoms, a
Greek word meaning ‘not cuttable’. This Greek idea about the
nature of matter was then largely forgotten for more than 2,000
years. Then in 1803 John Dalton, an English scientist, proposed a
theory about atoms. He believed that all elements are made up of
these minuscule particles, which cannot be created or destroyed or
even split. He thought that atoms of the same element are alike,
and differ from atoms of any other element. Dalton also believed
that different atoms combine in definite ratios to form molecules.
Two hundred years have passed since John Dalton shared his
thoughts. Along the way, other scientists have submitted their
theories, some, even, have split the atom, but still we are not privi-
leged to understand the true essence – the inner workings – of this
mysterious atomic entity. But there are clues. Life hints at its secrets.
Science has determined that the atom is the key factor enabling
existence to become known. It is the basic component of every
physical form, past, present and future; known and unknown. All
the categories of life, herein named mineral, vegetable, animal and
human ‘kingdoms’, employ these complex particles to present
their substances and identities to the world of being. And to make
things even more confusing, we are told that the atom’s
composition is less (or more, if you like) than ‘material’. If we
were to examine the integral parts of every definable form –
elephant tooth, cup of coffee, or whatever – we would find (up to
the time of this writing) no more than 110 elements – in total, the
basic substance of life. All of existence is made up of these
essential fundamental ingredients. And each element takes its
place in this miraculous display through the participation of its
smallest particles – its atoms. A mere few, particularized and
gathered together in the structure of our DNA, enable our genetic
heritage. In addition, we are told that the atoms themselves are
Affinity Abounds

constructed of electrified sub-particles, some charged positively,
some charged negatively, and (of course) some with no electrical
charge at all. It is here that our perception of our substantial world
and our bodily selves becomes fuzzy, sort of illusionary, because
these tiny bits of matter are themselves a bit ambiguous. They
assume a disguise, for they do not fit into the physical slot as much
as we would like. So, way back in history, when we were beginning
to examine our surroundings and wonder about ourselves, our
linguistic experts designed a word that helped explain things, and
that word is energy. Energy defines the atom and is its attribute.
Attribute! Where did we find this one? What a wonderful word!
And why so wonderful? Wonderful because it serves to define a
non-physical condition and presence. Non-physical attributes
define all physical matter; can you imagine. In the mineral realm, a
rock is a rock because its atoms hold together and form a
structure, and we name this holding-together-attribute cohesion. It
is a non-physical quality, and it identifies the essence of the rock.
We can pick up a rock, bur we cannot pick up cohesion. We can
examine a rock, bur we cannot examine cohesion.
What is the difference between a plastic rose (or a dead one)
and a real live rose? Well, one is just an assortment of mineral
atoms dressed up in fancy attire busily demonstrating cohesion,
and the other is an assortment of mineral atoms busily showing off
not only cohesion, but growth and metabolism as well. None of
these attributes have substantial presence, but they are essential in
identifying the substantial presence of the rose. A rose cannot be
known without knowing its non-physical qualities and attributes.
An incomprehensible configuration of specific mineral atoms
(live mineral atoms!) appropriately assembled in the form of a
small house mouse, evokes a small house mouse, because the house
mouse configuration enables cohesion, growth, sense perception and
instinct to become manifested – all defining attributes.
And how it could be, and who could imagine, that our own
minuscule atoms, packed tight with energy, might work in concert
to facilitate a harmonious thought or the freedom to choose?
Challenge

The Great Mystery
T
he greatest mystery of all, of course, is that all the different
forms – employing the same atoms and displaying the same
energy – behave so differently. It is an unusual consideration, but
it is quite obvious that a particular material composition cannot
but evoke a predictable non-physical performance. The way things
are put together will determine how they will behave.
In theory, if our children in their science class could introduce
a few more than 66 billion billion atoms of hydrogen to a
smattering of more than 33 billion billion atoms of oxygen, they

would bring forth one drop of water. And if the children could
combine a determined assortment of these tiny particles, assemble
and align them just as they are so perfectly assembled and aligned
in the petunia, they would create a petunia. The effect is already in
the cause. There is not even a remote chance that a honeybee will
write a sonnet – even though its atoms are the same as ours.
So let’s give energy a round of applause and honour it with a
capital ‘E’, for it is the answer to our dilemma. Here lies the flaw
in our thinking, for we have placed Energy in the wrong slot.
Good old-fashioned Energy – it makes the material world, and the
more-than-material world, one. Good old non-physical Energy!
We can help our children understand how Energy, fundamental,
inexplicable, unknowable, but true, proves its own existence. In
the classroom, if our students were given a bundle of atoms to
hold in their cupped hands, and it had shape only, they would
quickly identify it as a mineral of some kind – a chunk of
limestone or granite. If the assembled particles were growing,
perhaps photosynthesizing, the children would easily name this
assortment an aster or asparagus. If the sample were furry and cute
and purred, they would call it a kitten. And, though too large to
hold in cupped hands, if the conglomeration was thinking and
hopping about and trusting and loving and wondering about
things, they would be looking at themselves. In the guise of atoms
selected from that warehouse of 110 elements, our faithful friend
Energy is doing its job of bringing forth miracles.
And then the questions will start. ‘How can the same atoms
display so many different attributes?’ ‘Surely these tiny particles
are not able to make choices, decide when to hold on to one
another, or grow, or move around or think about things?’ David
will join in, ‘And how do they know when to come on the scene
and when to leave?’ And Kara will raise her hand and wonder,
aloud, ‘If Energy appears in all these life forms without their
beckoning or approval, who or what is responsible?’ Well, Kara,
the answer to this question is not to be found in your textbook. It
is a very good question, but one that you will be better able to
Challenge

address as you get older and as you mature. Your Maths, Science,
Social Studies, Languages, Arts and History lessons are the
necessary tools of learning, and, as you acquire knowledge, be
assured that insight will follow. However, it will not follow unless
you ask lots of questions along the way.
‘Questions? Questions about what?’ Kara, questions about
everything!
The Great Mystery

Cause and Effect
T
he physical compositions of all life forms define and
determine the degree of Energy that is to be displayed. Non-
physical Energy, pure and simple, does not and cannot reveal its
full power, for its measure is eclipsed by the capacities that reflect
it. The mineral, vegetable, animal and human kingdoms, perfectly
formed as they are, impose restrictions. In its secret world, the
mineral might wish to fly, but that is a futile wish.
Well, this isn’t quite true. What does the teacher answer when
Sylvie wonders: ‘When the sparrow takes a drink of water, and
those atoms of oxygen and hydrogen become sparrow and the

sparrow flies away, aren’t the minerals flying? And when the cow
eats the grass, and the grass turns into cow, can we say that the
mineral and vegetable particles can now moo?’ And after Sylvie
has had time to muse about her musings, she might present her
paper with this observation: ‘If the same atoms are used over and
over again by the different life forms, and these compositions
determine the degree of Energy that is to be displayed, then
Energy must have a life of its own. If this were not so, we would
have to credit the atoms themselves with this initiative – that they
are in control of their own destiny and can, if they choose, lift
themselves up by their own bootstraps.’
In their discussion class, the children might tackle the
relationship between cause and effect. What an interesting topic!
Somewhere along the way they might discover that cause and effect
are so closely linked that they change places with each other – the
effect becomes the cause of the next effect – immediately, without
a perceptible lapse of time. The relationship is so fixed that the
children can plan every action with confidence and direct every
thought with predictability.
And then there is another consideration. A cause cannot enter
or become a part of its effect – it creates the effect. Energy, as the
cause, does not become a large flower or a small elephant, nor does
Energy paint marvellous works of art. Rather, non-physical Energy
uses the physical forms (minerals, plants, animals and people) as
intermediaries to bring forth its non-physical effects (attributes).
And then another observation might come to mind. Perfection
is an attribute of life; all beings, minerals included, reflect the
presence of Energy perfectly. (We must stop telling the mineral
kingdom it is dead. We search the outer regions of the universe,
hoping to find signs of life, forgetting that the atoms in the most
distant galaxy are dancing.) However, perfection is relative, not
absolute. Thus, the rock holds together perfectly; the flower
grows in exemplary fashion; the pollywog’s wiggly ways are
flawless, and the child is inimitable. Everything manifests Energy
perfectly, to the degree allotted to and allowed by its parent
Cause and Effect

kingdom. The premise here outlined suggests that the differences
in our children have little to do with their essentiality, their
intrinsic nature, for their Energy is essence-mixed with the
quintessence (or the word of your choosing) of life. When a child
is conceived, the mix of atoms and molecules and genes – the
components of egg and sperm – impose restrictions on the degree
of Energy that is allowed, and it is in this manner that the child’s
capacities and aptitudes come into being. Although the
propensities for specialization and uniqueness (personality, too)
are concealed therein, these attributes will gradually become
apparent as the little one sets out on his or her journey. We must
remind ourselves: the child is something more than – and
something apart from – his or her attributes. Attributes describe
the child, bur they are not the child.
Energy has been around forever, but until we came on the
scene, pictures and images, descriptions and depictions, were
abiding in the secret world waiting to be born. Then, in due course
and after the passage of the rightful and proper time, we dipped
our fingers into the clay, turned sticks into brushes, and recorded
our presence. Good old Energy was there all the time, ready and
waiting to do its job, but until we made our appearance, repetition
and humdrumness were the order of the day. Energy, powerful,
indestructible and indefinable, is hidden until an intermediary
becomes its agent. Minerals, vegetables, animals, people – little
children – all are needed to prove Energy’s existence and convey
its power, for it is unknown and without influence until physical
matter is put to work (or, perhaps, Energy calls it into being). If
our children question their own significance, let them imagine
what the world – or, for that matter, existence – would be like
without them. Energy-infused intellect is mandatory.
A trip to the forest preserve will be a special day; all children
love nature. ‘Look, there, see the minnows?’ ‘Hey, Wal-Hum,
watch the frog jump!’ The children will take notes and list all the
different life forms they find, and the next day everyone will pass
the quiz with flying colours because the outing was such fun. But
Challenge

there is a wonderful lesson hidden in the forest retreat. Becoming
acquainted with the pollywog, and the pond with its whirling
teeming life, can be a window to understanding. Sitting up straight
and thinking thoughts, the children will enjoy the arithmetical
riddle of the lily pond:
A lily pad is placed in a pond. Each day thereafter, the pad and all
of its descendants double. On the 30th day the pond is covered
completely with lily pads, which can grow no more. On which day
was the pond half full and half empty? The 29th day.
When the children begin to think creatively, they will tap into
the flow and find hidden meanings. In this instance, it will be easy
for the children to foresee their own future when they envision
their own environments hanging in the balance, overpopulated or
dysfunctional in any way.
Back in the classroom, the children will compare notes and
share their discoveries. They will listen to Wal-Hum’s report (he
was the brave one who caught the pollywog in his cupped hands).
‘It was so beautiful! So perfect, and I could just feel its Energy. I
thought of bringing it back to school, but then I realized that it
was more perfect at home in the pond.’ Wal-Hum learned a great
deal at the outing.
Considerations such as these will help our children understand
that physical matter is the costume that Energy wears in order to
display its power – with and through endless particularity. This
knowledge will also give our children the awareness that diversity
is normal and natural and necessary, and that their special
allotment of this life-giving force is what makes them what they
are. If our children were all the same, their particles dipped from
the same mélange, they would reflect the same interminably
boring, irksome, monotonous uniformity. As it is, however, each
of our children is a prize waiting to be opened.
*********
What may the consequences be if we fail to share the evidences of
this secret realm? Well, first of all, we should not be surprised if
Cause and Effect

Challenge
the children perceive their lives to be insignificant – even that it is
pointless to survive in a meaningless world. And close to follow
will be boredom and apathy, for many children find learning by
rote, through fixed routines, without thought or understanding,
to be inconsequential. To really understand, David must call on as
many of his tools for learning (his senses) as he can. To truly learn
about pyramids, David must read and think and dream about
pyramids; he must travel across the ocean, climb up on a camel,
find Cairo along the bank of the Nile, and then look and see the
ancient tomb. He will touch and feel its massiveness, and he will
listen to the silence and hear, in his own far distant past, the cries
of the million slaves who built it. He will breathe the air they
breathed and he will taste the bitter fruit of their labour. Then
David will know pyramids.
What will be the consequence when we share this secret?

David

Knowledge and
Understanding
Education does not mean teaching people to
know what they do not know. It means
teaching them to behave as they do not
behave . . . It is not teaching the youth . . .
the shapes of letters and the tricks of
numbers; and then leaving them
to turn their arithmetic to roguery,
and their literature to lust. It is,
on the contrary, training them into
the perfect exercise and kingly
continence of their bodies and
souls. It is a painful,
continual and difficult
work; to be done by
kindness, by watching, by
warning, by precept, and
by praise – but above all,
by example.
John Ruskin (1866)l
I
n a sense, everything is a half, and to know its whole we must
become acquainted with its partner. Ask the children to define
a ‘line’. They might start by describing what a line is not. It is not
a dot (the line’s alter ego). What is a straight line? A straight line

Knowledge and Understanding
is hard to define without knowing its counterpart – a crooked one.
Rough needs smooth to find its identity. Light and dark, high and
low, open and closed, alive and dead, female and male, smile and
scowl – our children, making a game of it, will find the list a long
one. And this equation relates to the non-physical, abstract world
as well. Happiness is the other half of sadness. Love and hate,
greed and generosity – hope, trust, desire, devotion, belief, truth
– all have their opposites.
Such an exercise will help the children understand that their
daily encounters will touch on both the material and non-material
aspects of their lives. Going to school, mastering the magic of
letters and numbers, will comprise much of their education.
Learning the principles of mathematics, the theories of science,
and the facts of history will train minds to store information and
draw from its resources, but the deeper meanings toward which
and for which this wealth of knowledge might lead will probably
not be touched on. It is true that the proper use of words and all
the facts and the figures will help our students fit into the waiting
world, for these are essential tools, but facts alone can be irksome
and tedious. They will not be fulfilling or bring happiness or self-
confidence unless purpose and meaning are incorporated, and this
bounty will remain hidden if we, as educators, do not share the
secret of the existence of the hidden world of abstraction.
As our children become acquainted with the tools for learning,
a process that has its beginnings in their earliest formative months
and years, they will, from the outset, if carefully taught, gradually
direct their Energy to serve meaningful goals. And the goals must
be appropriate goals. Personal aggrandizement can lead to feelings
of self-sufficiency, and thus the door is opened to isolation. This
is the more serious and troublesome consequence, for this kind of
behaviour is self-destructive, and our children can easily set
themselves adrift.
Education is more than the acquisition of knowledge. The
purpose of education is to prepare the individual to be a
participant. Aptitudes, synchronized to the common good, find

accordance and harmony in a function greater than their own. We
can imagine the consequences when each individual participates in
the manifestation of universal goals.
What we do with the tools of learning is the indeterminate
factor, for our particularized focusing of Energy can give birth to
wonderful achievements, or result in the infliction of horrendous
despair. In our formative months, when we are just little tikes, we
begin to reflect the influence of our surroundings and guidance,
and when we enter the classroom some sixty or seventy months
later, our dispositions and attitudes are already quite well defined.
Fitting into the spectrum of life – becoming a part of the social
order, not only the human social order, but also the natural
conformity presented in the surrounding environments and
systems – is obligatory. In our human realm, the stability and
integrity of every social structure – family, town, state and nation,
even inter-nation – is qualified by the participation of each
individual constituent. Since children are tomorrow’s adults, they
must find their assigned place in the scheme of things as quickly
as possible, for the overall organization of life will ultimately
undoubtedly reflect their participation, or their lack of
participation.
*********
Listening to the evening news, we cannot assimilate all the
deprivation and unhappiness that flows over us like a heavy wave.
It is unbecoming that we, the human beings, surrounded by
beauty and majesty, should be contrary and dysfunctional – out of
tune and worlds away. And this domain is waiting for the newborn
babe. If this little one acquires the tools for learning and then
surrenders them to egocentric goals, our kingdom’s Energy will
again be compromised, the waste will be confirmed, and the
evening news will remain the same. We parents and teachers –
parents as teachers – can help our children find their place and
purpose by allowing the early introduction and exercise of
imagination, investigation, and contemplation to come into their
Challenge

Knowledge and Understanding
lives. We will be successful, because we are working with minds
that are still untouched by misapplication.
However, the adult community, apparently without a sense of
connection, is giving mixed signals to our young people through
its outward admonitions and its inward coalition with dishonesty,
indifference and greed. Through advertising and other forms of
commercialism, we deliberately mislead. Violence and anger and
inanity are presented and acknowledged as entertainment: the
little child deserves better. Subservience to debilitating substances,
hateful, even indolent, behaviour, and vain and nullifying thought
disrupt Energy’s natural flow, and the consequences are grist to
the media’s mill. When the torment becomes intolerable we
strengthen law enforcement, clamping down on the offenders, but
what are we doing now about the kinds of abuses that targeted the
embittered perpetrators when they were youngsters of tender age?
It is obvious that the damage they now inflict was earlier directed
at them. At such a time as this, when dysfunctionality so
grievously inflicts its toll, we must be insistent and courageous as
we, the teachers, call upon first principles. We must redefine
education for our children.

Diversity
D
isparity and diversity should be farther apart in our
dictionaries. We might say that diversity is the plus side of
disparity for it gives ‘difference’ a happy twist. In today’s
classrooms, children are called upon to measure up to
predetermined and impersonal standards of excellence. We
continue to approve the pyramid structure where the “best” is at
the top, and the rest are assembled in diminishing degrees of
importance below. If we subscribe to the premise that each child’s
capacities and aptitudes are unique – principally because of the
manner and degree in which Energy manifests itself – then we
must review the wisdom of competition in the schools.
Parents and teachers are keenly aware of the anguish a child
suffers when his or her capacities, designed for particularity, are

directed toward conformity. Is it little wonder that a child may shy
away from initiative and individuality when these attributes are
perceived in a negative light? We know that diversity makes the
garden beautiful.
Within life’s grand display, diversity is a normal attribute. All
110 elements comprising the mineral realm intermingle and
correlate endlessly. The capacities of the lower kingdoms are fixed
and captive in the mix. They are not able to step out of line and go
their own way. Thankfully, young children (and old children) can
step out of line and make life meaningful. Diversity is our most
precious attribute. We must encourage the children to stand
proud, make waves, contribute, and be noticed.
Oh, oh, Hamid has his hand up again: ‘If I am made up of specific
atoms of Energy, and these particles allow my individuality to
present itself, who or what am “I” – the “Hamid” part? And all my
friends – who are they? and all the people everywhere – surely they
are more than clever bits of matter walking around and doing things!’
What is Hamid doing with his questioning? He is practising
independent investigation. Throughout his life, as he examines and
ponders, the spark of insight will accompany him – so long as he
continues to ‘ask those questions’! He will understand that to accept
as truth the word of any other person, learned or not, will
automatically deprive him of that truth – merely because he accepts
it without understanding. This knowledge, in itself, will light up his
world. These secrets, waiting for the inquiring mind, are less than a
step away; they can click into consciousness and thought instantly,
unannounced. When the children’s Energy is so focused, purpose
will come into their lives. It is here, in this private world, that
thinking gives birth to meaning. Hamid will put on his thinking cap
and ask questions his parents would not have thought to ask. ‘Since
all the various life forms employ Energy to show off their attributes,
and as Energy is essential and universal, then are not all life forms
parts of a wonderful oneness? Because “our” essence is the same, are
we not all shareholders? Golly, could it be that I am truly connected
with the universe – minerals, plants, animals and all?’
Diversity

Consequences
W
hen conceived in the womb, every child of the next
generation is a miracle waiting to be born, and when born
into the physical world, this bundle of Energy is ready to be
opened. At the enigmatic moment of conception, when the father
and mother’s components meet and merge, a combination of
elements that has never existed before allows unknowable
potentialities to come into being. The relationship of each particle

to particle, molecule to molecule and gene to gene – held secret in
this newly formed infant – will enable Energy to be manifested
throughout its life in wondrous but nonetheless restricted and
particularized ways. After all, as tiny tots we know nothing by
ourselves, and we will know only what we are taught. Oh, as
youngsters, we may become aware of simple consequences: touch
something hot – we won’t do that again; nursing a bruised knee or
scraped elbow – stay on top of the roller blades. If we take the
largest piece of cake, and are not advised, we will naturally expect
to have the biggest and best as our due. Why? Why not?
From the beginning, the newborn infant is sheltered and
nourished, and gradually learns the guidelines that will
progressively enable it to function on its own. Most of these
lessons have to do with consequences.
Youngsters learn bit by bit that if they do or say ‘this’, then they
can expect ‘that’ to happen. Even our very little ones can anticipate
the effect of a cause. ‘What will happen if I take the largest piece
of cake?’ ‘If I talk back to the teacher or my parents, what might
happen?’
Everybody and everything else
Consequences
Consequences

Challenge
When we are born, all that we can claim to possess is potential.
Then, as the days pass, every great and small event that presents
itself is a consequence that must be attended to. We are constantly
reacting to initiatives that have had their beginnings either close
by or far away. And it is reciprocal, for what we do and what we
say ultimately affects others with whom we have no direct
contact; the chains of causes and effects go out in all directions.
The students may enjoy the following story. Two women are
shopping at the mall. As they pass the jewellery section, one of
them pauses, turns to her friend and asks:
‘Did you ever receive a gift that was the most precious and most
treasured gift of all, and do you remember who gave it to you?’
Her friend thinks for a moment and then replies, ‘Yes, I do
remember such a gift, and, yes, I remember who gave it to me. It
was given to me by my parents.’
‘What was the gift?’
‘Well, it was my life. My parents gave me my life.’
The children may transfer this story to their own lives and ask
themselves, ‘What about my parents . . . and my grandparents?
And what about my grandparents’ grandparents, and on and on
way back in history? What part did those early people play in my
being here now? Do we thank them too?’ And the discussion
might take a turn: ‘What about all the things that have happened
to me since I was born? Every sight that I saw, every sound I
heard, every taste and smell and touch – did each increment make
me what I am? Am I the sum of all these circumstances? If so, I
had best be careful about my judgement of others, for I cannot
know what consequences have shaped their lives up to the
moment of our meeting.’

Education and Competition
Victory breeds hatred, for the conquered is unhappy.
Gautama Buddha
E
very age and time reflects the degree of Energy that can be
made known in it. Every physical form enrolled in the
mineral, vegetable, animal or human kingdoms shares in this
endeavour. At one time our world was a silent sphere, dormant
but infused with unknowable promise. Like a seed, waiting for the
spring season, fruition bided its time. Today, after eons of
incubation, our planet blossoms and life abounds.

Challenge
The challenge that life presents is one of survival. Sustaining the
equilibrium in any organism depends on the relationship of its
integral parts to the function of the whole. Our world, before we
came on the scene, evolved with incredible conformity – incredible
indeed, for all life’s forms interacted perfectly (well, ate each other)
and balance was maintained. Then, after some long time, we
knocked at the door, the door opened and we entered the fray.
In olden times, when our ancestors were struggling to survive
(even more than we are today), being distanced from each other
offered some degree of security. The intrusion of another family,
looking favourably at some nearby real estate, would have been a
cause of considerable concern; Neanderthal housing projects were
few and far between, and the accommodation a new family might
be looking at, no matter how far away, was not far enough. If I had
been one of those early people, tending the fire at the mouth of
our cave, I’m sure my watchful eye would have been scanning the
horizon, on the lookout. And if man or beast were to come into
view, I would have grabbed my club (if I could have found it) and
headed over there to tell the newcomers to get lost. When the
burly fellow in charge saw me approaching, obviously not on a
mission to borrow a pinch of salt for my woman’s culinary
venture, we two he-men, with hardly a grumble, would vie for
position and commence to set to it to set things right.
*********
Apparently such behaviour sticks with you when you learn it in an
early age.
Over the centuries the blows have become less direct and more
remotely delivered. The point of the weapon has extended further
from the hand that brandishes it. From flint knife to axe to spear,
from arrow to gunshot and missile to threatening to press the
button, today the domination of an individual (or a nation) over
another continues. We teach our children to be competitive, to
measure their own capacities and accomplishments against the
performance of others.

This idea presents a very different set of rules from the ones
that ideally define the structure of the family where everyone is to
consider as beyond reproach the innate capacities of everyone else.
When they leave home and enter the classroom, how are our
youngsters to reason that the one coveted prize belongs to the
‘winner’ when they, the ‘contestants’, are competing with varying
and unequal capabilities? Of course the fastest runner will win the
race, and the keenest mind will score the scholastic victory. A
single standard, by which different and particularized capacities
are to be measured, is a perplexing concept.
We have neglected to inform our children that an individual life
is precious, and that mysteries are hidden within. We have kept
secret the quest: that the material world is the matrix Spirit uses
to manifest its presence and achieve its goal.
The observation here presented argues that we are neglecting to
inform our children that life is more than it appears to be. Physical
existence has the upper hand, for everything seems to have a
substantial presence. It is not surprising if the children perceive
themselves to be only corporeal. From the outset, advertising and
other forms of commercialism present a lopsided view of what lies
ahead. As parents and teachers, we support this impression by
directing schoolchildren’s attention to the physical aspects of their
journey. Learning the lessons, finding a career, raising a family,
saving for retirement, securing funds for the funeral, where is the
excitement? Where do the hopes and dreams fit in? When and
where, in the present curriculum, does the thrill of discovery make
its appearance? In the humdrumness of our teaching we have left
out the romance. We are unduly cautious in protecting our children;
we blink, look evasively at the meaningful aspects of life, because
there is taint associated with matters other than factual matters. This
yielding implies disquietude or (hopefully not) indifference. In our
vigilance to protect our children’s freedom, it is difficult to
understand the sanctions we have imposed on their freedom to
experience the value and significance of creative thinking.
********
Education and Competition

It is here proposed that the school curriculum include a time
period devoted to rational thought and independent investigation.
It would accompany the students from the first grade on up. The
youngest children would be taught the principles of ‘consequence’,
and through this knowledge they would gradually understand that
things do not just happen, but are brought about by a cause. All
kinds of subjects could be incorporated in the discussion. ‘What
might happen if I took the biggest piece of cake at Mary’s party?
Well, the other kids wouldn’t like it; they would think I was being
greedy.’ Or, ‘If my mother heard about it, she would be
disappointed.’
Later on, other leading questions might come to mind: How do
people living in very difficult geographical environments survive?
Why did some cultures develop technology, and others did not
discover the wheel? Rosa might ask, ‘In the structure of the family,
what part does “sacrifice” play in its functioning; what do parents
and children have to “give up” to be participants? And is there a
comparison that would apply in the relationship of nation to
nation?’ And Kara: ‘Could competition and the importance of
winning, say, in sports, support the idea that for boys to become
men they must be aggressive and dominate? And might this
learned behaviour lead to all the fighting inside and outside the
home later on?’ And Sylvie: ‘Why did religion play so important a
role in people’s lives that civilizations were named after them?
And, how did arithmetic come into being?’
The subject matter is not as important as the speculations that
might be induced. This approach to teaching would bring into
context the physical factors (memorizing and remembering), and
the non-physical aspects (thinking and processing and applying)
that enable such knowledge to be meaningful. When we inform
the children that the factual material, and the abstract use of this
material, are the two parts of education, they will understand the
importance of all those facts and figures.
It is suggested that there be no right or wrong answers, no
papers to hand in – unless someone is so excited about his or her
Challenge

discovery that copies will be handed out to the other students. The
children would, perhaps take notes. Then, when Elizabeth poses
her question, ‘I know when I feel sick, but what part of me is sad?’
her classmates will add this question to their stockpile and
perhaps, some day, independently find the answer.
Education and Competition

From Atom to Art
W
e do not normally consider what we do as art. Those of us
who are lawyers or chemists, sales managers, bankers or
bricklayers, may be of the opinion that art is a gift bestowed on
painters or poets or musicians and we, the common folk, feeling
perhaps disadvantaged, are left outside. If someone mentions that
he or she is an artist or musician, predictable responses are
triggered: ‘How wonderful! Me, I can’t draw a straight line,’ or, ‘I
can’t carry a tune in a basket.’
Most of us start our journey with no particular agenda. We play
soccer with friends at school or plan some back-yard adventure,
but few of us, in our early years, find a compelling interest in, say,
playing the piano. We are, for the most part, quite passive;
unmindful of the learning process that is quietly at work.
Unaware of the influence of countless twists of fate, we gradually,
perhaps unwittingly, find interests and aptitudes that are hidden
within, and it is then that our lives become meaningful. Secretly,
we are tapping into the flow.

But the ‘we’ part is the puzzling part, for we are more than the
effects we make happen. Some of us are musicians, but what are
we, the ones behind the music? (This was Hamid’s question.)
What might we call ourselves – we who aspire to foresee and then
direct eyes and ears and hands to make the dream real? We
mentally conceive, then physically give birth to the vision so that
our intent can be, with wonder, acknowledged.
We make music, and what might the music (the effect) call us
other than its maker (cause)? And as such, might we not consider
ourselves, as well, the effect of a cause that cannot be fathomed?
Although what we are is a mystery, what this mystery does is
real and true. Our physical make-up, configurations composed
of smatterings of those 110 elements (arranged as enabling
molecules) serve us as tools. Voices, ears, eyes, hands and feet –
look at us go!
Baking a wonderful pie is not what it seems. It is actually a
mystical happening! The pie itself is a puzzle; why should such a
conglomeration of atoms taste so good? But more remarkable is
the chain of causes and effects bringing it to its place on the
County Fair Home Arts table. Look at the variety, and don’t they
all look delicious? Over there we can see the contestants standing
off to one side anxiously waiting for the judges to make their
decision. If we listen carefully we can hear the pie-lady in the blue
sweater: ‘Well, it looks to me like Ada’s pie is going to win again.’
To you and me, Ada’s pie looks pretty much like all the others, but
those who know pies will be able to affix the blue ribbon to the
best one. It’s a ‘spiritual’ thing. Ada and her pie somehow validate
and entitle each other – Ada makes the pie, and what does the pie
do? The pie makes Ada a pie-maker.
Another scenario: Back around the turn of the century,
Nashville, Indiana (Barbara’s and my hometown), was a small
country village nestled in the hills of Brown County. Washboardy
roads paved the way. We can picture Jake’s wagon shop situated a
quarter mile east of the centre of things. A typical hot summer day,
flies are buzzing, and Jake and his cronies are idly talking, not much
From Atom to Art

Challenge
going on. A man approaches toting a broken wheel, the rim is bent
and several spokes are missing. No one says anything, but they all
study the wheel. Jake finally says, ‘Well, this is a job for Jim,’ and he
turns his head and calls over his shoulder to the back of the shop,
‘Hey, Jim, come on out here.’ Jim stands quietly, pondering the
wheel, arms sort of folded, one hand at his chin, and he says, ‘Yeah,
I can do that.’ Well, why can Jim fix the wheel and the others
cannot? It is because Jim and his work are one. Jim gets out of the
way, the Energy flows through, and the wheel is fixed.
Andone more: How many times has a gallery guard, watching the
masterpieces in the Louvre, heard whispered, ‘Oh! Look at
Cézanne!’ ‘That’s Van Gogh!’ Well, yes, they are wonderful, but they
are dead. However, what they did when they were alive was to so put
themselves into their work that their signatures are not necessary.
Like Ada’s wonderful pie, the paintings identify their makers.
All these interesting people are Energy channellers, and what
they do is the consequence of how they are put together – how their
atoms and molecules are so arranged and synchronized as to allow
Energy to express itself in such particular and marvellous ways.
A pie-maker may be a pie-maker and an artist may be an artist,
but without producing a masterpiece, who would know? Without
the evidences displayed, Ada, Cézanne, and Jim the wheelwright
would join the ranks of undistinguished common folk. This lesson
is directed to our children. If they quietly sit in the corner, watching
TV or clicking at their computer games, they will not be noticed.
It may be reasoned that life displays Energy in specific and
measured degrees, enabling distinct and definable attributes to be
known, but what is Energy, and where does it abide? Certainly the
atoms and molecules are not in control of their own destiny (for
they cannot know if they are being called upon to shape a rock or
form a thought). And certainly purpose is involved, for all definable
systems fit together in such a way that order, rather than chaos, is
maintained, and a degree of completeness greater than their own is
manifested. And, we can hardly avoid the question, called upon by
what or whom? There are few options; the conclusion we arrive at

must be stated something like this: Some universal enabling factor
is at work controlling the constrained capacities of physical matter.
*********
This discussion brings us to the place of art in our lives, particularly
in the lives of our children. Not art as it is taught through lessons
concerning composition and colour, but more importantly art as a
natural fruition of human initiative and creativity – art as an
evocation. When Energy flows through us, art is born. The alerted
mind conceives, then calls upon the intermediate tools – and what
happens? Prizewinning pies and fixed wheels come into existence.
Little children are fundamentally innocent. They are not
inherently instilled with knowledge; it is an acquired attribute that
must be learned. In our schools, numbers and letters are taken care
of quite satisfactorily, but the children are not told, and they do
not know, that there is another side to the knowledge equation.
They are unaware that they are luminaries, each one holding the
torch of progress, which when held high will light up the world.
*********
We have another challenge. Attaching definitive significance to the
lessons and assignments by which knowledge is acquired is of little
consequence. Mathematics, social studies, language arts and
physical science are the means, the intermediate tools for learning,
but they are meaningless if they fail to facilitate understanding and
perception. The children are unaware that wondrous non-physical
aptitudes and talents are hidden within their physical substance –
unique capabilities instilled when they were conceived, endowments
waiting to be set free – each and every one an art form. Tragically,
these will remain unrealized, a mere potential, if the children are not
informed of what it is that they are – and how the lessons and
assignments will ultimately enable them to touch on meaning and
purpose. When they ‘step aside’, let Energy flow through naturally
and freely, they will become wellsprings of progress. Channelling
their Energy, they will establish the culture of their time.
From Atom to Art

The Mischief-maker
A
t this point, I would like to tell one of my father’s stories.
As I recall, he would begin by saying, ‘This is a Turkish story.’
Long ago and far away there was an owner of a great estate. The
barns and pastures and the hills beyond were his, as was the
wonderful mansion nearby. One would think things were going
well for a man in his position, but he was troubled; the daily chores
were without end and try as he might, he could not find enough
servants to help. One day while he was working in his garden,
worrying about his plight, he looked up to see a young man
coming up the path. He looked strong and amiable; his stride was
brisk and he was smiling as he approached.
They exchanged greetings and the traveller asked if he might see
the owner of the estate, as he was looking for work. The owner
replied that he was the master, and, ‘Yes, how wonderful that you

The Mischief-maker
should come by at such a time when I have so great a need. I can
put you to work right away. What terms might we agree upon?’
The young man replied that there were two stipulations, and that
both must be complied with. One was that he must be kept busy,
and the other was that he was not to be paid a wage. The owner was
puzzled, but he agreed and they clasped hands closing the deal.
The estate owner thought and planned for a moment and then
told the young man to start his chores by cleaning the stables and
barns. The fellow set off with a lively step and the gardener
returned to his plantings, musing on his good fortune. Just a few
minutes had passed when he looked up and there was this smiling
fellow asking what his next job should be, the barns are clean. The
owner was taken aback and went to inspect the work. It was better
than he had hoped for. He was perplexed, but he turned to the
young man and told him to fetch water and feed for the cattle, and
then groom the horses. And off the fellow went humming a tune.
A short time later he returned; all the work had been done, and
he asked for his next assignment. This state of affairs continued
on into the afternoon and when the fellow returned from his last
task, the gardener was confused and undecided and told him: ‘Sit
over there and wait a minute; let me think.’ The young man said
that this would not do; the agreement was that he must be kept
busy. Desperate, the owner instructed him to move the far hill to
the east side of the estate; the drainage would be better and the
view from the manor house would be more beautiful.
The worker headed for the hills with shovel in hand, but was back
within the hour; the work was finished. The owner now was deeply
troubled and said that he needed a moment to decide what other
work needed to be done. ‘Sit and rest while I consider.’ Dejected, the
young man turned away, and, after a moment, the gardener heard an
uproar – shouting and yelling. Looking up, he saw one of his barns
on fire. Frantically, he ran to the scene and there, inside the barn, this
young fellow was busy setting another fire. ‘Here! Stop that!

Challenge
Run and get water and call for others to come and help.’ The young
man immediately dropped his torch, sounded the alarm, and rushed
to the pumps for water.
In the midst of all this confusion, another traveller approached the
landowner. He was very aged but his eyes were bright and his
countenance betokened great wisdom. ‘Well, stranger, it looks like
you have got yourself into a bit of trouble.’ The owner then related
the story of the young man’s arrival and the problems that had
ensued. The old man replied, ‘You don’t know who this young
man is, do you?’ The estate owner replied that he thought he was
just a fellow looking for work. The wise one said, ‘Let me explain,
but first, as the fires are almost out, call him over here. I will tell
him what to do and your problems will be over.’ The amiable
young man approached and the old traveller told him: ‘Go over to
that pole and climb up and down until your master tells you to
stop.’ The fellow rushed over to the pole and started climbing.
‘Now, let me tell you who this young man is. He is called the mind,
and the pole is his hobby. Unless the mind is kept busy, it creates
mischief.’

The child in the womb has not asked to be there, nor is the newly
conceived one free to choose the bestowals that are to define and
oversee its journey.
Does it not seem unfair that this little one, untouched and
pure, designed for particularity and gifted with unknowable
promise, should be enrolled in a competitive world where
predetermined and impersonal standards of excellence are to
measure its worth? Can we imagine the anguish of such a soul?
Conformity stifles initiative, and sameness is the enemy of
diversity, the wondrous attribute that lights up the world.
Diversity is the fabric of life and is inherent in all systems,
tangible and intangible. Life’s spectrum not only reflects all
knowable configurations, colours, shapes and sizes, bur, as well,
the indefinable things like thought and behaviour, compassion
and love. Through the employment of these two fundamentals
(i.e., the physical and the non-physical), knowledge is enhanced
with understanding. It is then that the child will find meaning
hidden within the incredible display and, though difficult to
define, he will acknowledge it as real and true.

Ideas themselves are mystifying; they come into being
unannounced, without our beckoning. Sitting quietly, perhaps
reading or watching TV or drying the dishes, suddenly we are
changed, different from what we were before the interlude. Some
inexplicable transformation has taken place and we look at things
in a new light. The revelation is so momentous that we realize we
will never be the same, and we cannot but wonder from whence
such insights come?
But some ideas do identify their beginnings. The principles
outlined here are easily traced to their source. It would be unfair
to claim them as my own, for they embrace a universal perspective
that is beyond my field of vision. These principles, proclaimed by
Bahá’u’lláh, and exemplified by His son ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, bring into
context the two polarities of science and religion, points of view
that have troubled us for so long. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s discourses and
writings clearly define the reciprocal relationship of the physical
and the more-than-physical aspects of existence. With simple but
profound explan-ations, a theory of evolution is clearly defined,
and the proposition that cause and effect are inherent in every facet
of life cannot but be acknowledged.
Yes, ideas are wonderful, but these are special because they
address the fundamental needs of a divided world. Old concepts,
coveted for their past service, now stunt our growth. Our great
need is to find a common discipline that will align our Energy to
a single purpose and then hold us to the line. As we cannot explain
the phenomena of fresh concepts infusing and alerting our
thoughts, we must concede that their disclosure comes through us
from an Energy source beyond all reason. So, let’s give revelation
a round of applause, for it ultimately enables us to find our way.
Today, our scientists are busier than ever before, delving into the
materiality of life in their attempts to find the ‘unified field’ behind
everything. Every so often they share their excitement; they are
‘getting closer’, but then the answers seem to slip away, retreating
further and deeper into complex intangibles. And religion, content
to relegate the mysteries of life to the province of an unknowable
Challenge

Conclusion
omnipotence, continues to hold fast to practices that increasingly
dissipate the indivisible Energy that connects us to the greater
realm. These two schools may be satisfactory for their followers,
but what about the rest of us who are bothered when their two
truths are in contention with each other?
History records that, apparently, a determined allotment of
knowledge is made available for our use at any particular time. We
cannot step ahead of the game. Throughout the ages, great thinkers
discover new, timely, and often outlandish ideas that change or
replace the old outmoded ones. Their dreams, however fanciful at
the time, become manifest, and in due course are instrumental in
furthering our progress. In earlier times, superstition and dogma
clouded our vision, but when science came on the scene, with its
reliance on reasonable proof, our understanding of the workings of
life changed completely. Now it is clear that the physical
presentation cannot be known other than by and through its non-
physical attributes. In one sense, we are ahead of the game for
(because of science) we are privy to a perception which science
itself is, for the most part, still reluctant to explore. We must thank
the biochemists and genetic researchers for helping us touch on the
mystery of life’s dual nature, for we common folk could never have
found the mystery by ourselves.
At this point, my argument would appear to have little to do
with religion, but carrying it a bit further we must concede that
advancement, the movement forward toward specific goals, is
reflected by all systems, mankind included. The employment of
abstract thought has exerted so great an influence on our progress
that civilizations have been named after the religions that gave
them birth. From cave to nation, the structure of the social order
has built on principles that have focused the Energy of diverse
peoples on the achievement of a unified progress. Expanded
understanding has resulted in new and advanced technology and
art. It is interesting, but perhaps not surprising, that religion, using
the logic of science, should in this day lead the way and construct
the bridge connecting the two worlds.

Challenge
The two courses of study that will help our children fit into
this, their era of enlightenment, are, it is here proposed,
independent investigation of truth (through the asking of questions
and the assessment of answers), and an understanding of the
oneness of the physical and non-physical aspects of life. Then, when
Elizabeth and David face the challenge of a new and reasonable
premise, former perceptions will change or be enhanced and they
will see more clearly. They will, with intent, become participants
in the evolutionary process.
This proposal does not entail the building of new schools. It
changes the perspective, redefines the goals that public education
aspires to achieve. It is a gift that we can, with great love, share
with our children. We will teach the facts and figures; they will use
these tools to find meaning and purpose and everything,
everything, will change.