THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1995-12-26

The Four Year Plan

To the conference of the continental boards of counselors

dearly loved f riends,

our deliberations on the four year plan have benefited enormously from

the analysis the international Teaching center prepared for us of conditions

in the bahá’í world, based on its constant interaction with the counselors in

the field, and from our subsequent consultations with that body. i t gives us

great pleasure to share with you at the outset of this conference the general

features of the plan. we invite you to turn your attention in the coming days

to issues related to implementation, drawing on the insights and knowledge gained from decades of experience around the world.

certain elements of our decisions and comments on the plan will have

a direct bearing on your labors throughout your present term of service.

These are: the principal focus of the coming plan; the process we envisage

for the elaboration of the plan and your part in this process; developments

in the mode of functioning of the continental boards of counselors; the

formulation of plans at the national, regional and local levels; the vital need

for institutes to train believers and develop human resources; the intimate involvement of counselors and Auxiliary board members in the establish-

ment and operation of these institutes; effective approaches to the raising

up and consolidation of local Spiritual Assemblies and the development of

local bahá’í communities; and the allocation of limited financial resources

to the many challenges before the b ahá’í community.

At ri¤ván 1996, the bahá’ís of the world will embark on a global en-

terprise aimed at one major accomplishment: a significant advance in the

process of entry by troops. This is to be achieved through marked progress in the activity and development of the individual believer, of the institu-

tions, and of the local community. That an advance in this process depends

on the progress of all three of these intimately connected participants is abundantly clear. The next four years must witness a dramatic upsurge in 213.2

213.3

213.4

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

65effective teaching activities undertaken at the initiative of the individual.

Thousands upon thousands of believers will need to be aided to express

the vitality of their faith through constancy in teaching the cause and by

supporting the plans of their institutions and the endeavors of their com-

munities. They should be helped to realize that their efforts will be sustained by the degree to which their inner life and private character “mirror forth in

their manifold aspects the splendor of those eternal principles proclaimed

by bahá’u’lláh.”

213-1 An acceleration in the tempo of individual teaching

must necessarily be complemented by a multiplication in the number of

regional and local teaching projects. To this end the institutions should be

assisted in increasing their ability to consult according to bahá’í principles,

to unify the friends in a common vision, and to use their talents in service to the cause. furthermore, those who enter the faith must be integrated into

vibrant local communities, characterized by tolerance and love and guided by a strong sense of purpose and collective will, environments in which the capacities of all components—men, women, youth and children—are developed and their powers multiplied in unified action.

Planning Process

At the close of this conference, we intend to announce to the bahá’í world

our decision to launch a four year plan at ri¤ván 1996. The formulation of

national plans is to begin in each country after ri¤ván, allowing the friends

to concentrate their energies in the intervening months on bringing the Three y ear p lan to a successful conclusion.

The ideas expressed in the initial announcement will be elaborated fur-

ther in the forthcoming ri¤ván message. moreover, we have decided to

address messages to the believers in each continent of the globe, or parts thereof, exploring the implications of the four year plan in the light of

the particular conditions of their countries. following ri¤ván, it should

be feasible to hold consultative meetings among the institutions and with active supporters of the faith in every country and to formulate national

plans within a period of a few months. once consultations between the

counselors and a National Spiritual Assembly on the provisions of a plan have reached fruition, its implementation can begin. Approval of these plans from the bahá’í world center will not be necessary; copies should,

nonetheless, be forwarded to it.

213-1. bA, p. 66.213.5

213.6

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

66The seven objectives specified for the Six year and Three year plans de-

scribe interacting processes that must advance simultaneously over many

decades. They will guide the institutions as they set goals in various areas of

activity to further the aim of the four year plan. National plans, however,

will need to go beyond the mere enumeration of goals to include an analysis of approaches to be adopted and lines of action to be followed, so that the

friends will be able to set out on their endeavors with clarity of mind and

decisiveness.

Continental Level

in the discharge of their vital responsibilities during the four year plan, the

continental boards of counselors will have a wide range of possibilities

available to them. The flexibility inherent in their functioning must be fully exploited at this time when events both within and outside the bahá’í com-

munity are moving at an accelerated rate.

certain counselor functions, including the supervision and guidance of

the Auxiliary board members in an area, are generally best performed by

one counselor on behalf of the board. however, in the performance of

other functions, there is great value in a diversity of approaches and in

consultation among several counselors. for example, in providing stimulus

to National Assemblies, in promoting teaching among various strata of the

population, and in counseling different components of the bahá’í commu-

nity, better results are achieved when the abilities of a number of counsel-

ors are used in a complementary fashion. further ways and means should be

devised by each continental board of counselors to enable the Assemblies

and communities to benefit, to the extent feasible, from the varied talents

of the counselors. This may well involve periodic in-depth consultation

among a group of counselors on the conditions and needs of countries in a

specific part of the continent since, in general, circumstances do not allow such consultations to occur frequently among all members of the board.

fundamental to the work of the counselors is the understanding that

all members of the continental board are responsible for the entire conti-

nent, and should, to the degree possible, endeavor to familiarize themselves with the conditions of the cause in the countries therein. Through periodic

reports from individual counselors, the board is kept abreast of develop-

ments in all areas of the continent and is able to offer guidance to assist its members in the execution of their duties. whereas no counselor should be

regarded as having exclusive responsibility for any one territory, the detailed 213.7

213.8

213.9

213.10

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

67familiarity acquired by each through close interaction with the National

Spiritual Assembly and Auxiliary board members in a particular area is in

fact a valuable asset to all the counselors on the board.

Another aspect of the work of the counselors which merits further at-

tention is the interaction between counselors of different boards who serve

adjacent areas or areas which have a special relationship. Among the ex-

amples which come to mind are the russian federation, located partly in

europe and partly in Asia; the circumpolar national bahá’í communities;

the countries bordering the mediterranean Sea; the communities of North-

eastern Asia and the Antipodes, referred to by the guardian as constitut-

ing a spiritual axis; the Arabic-speaking countries of North Africa and the

middle east; and f rench-speaking territories in various continents.

we hope that, while in the holy land, each board will be able to give

consideration to its mode of operation and explore effective means of inter-action among the counselors. in this way, between the close of the confer-

ence and ri¤ván, groups of counselors will be able to consult together

about the planning process in a number of related countries and the role

they and their auxiliaries are to play in it.

National and Regional Levels

in most countries, once the major elements of the national plan have been

identified, it is desirable that the planning process move quickly to the re-gional level. The resulting plans should include provisions for the promo-tion of individual teaching, the launching of campaigns of various kinds,

the holding of conferences, the establishment of local and regional projects,

the strengthening of local communities, and the movement of traveling teachers. moreover, the widespread distribution of literature and audiovi-

sual materials must be given urgent attention, and, particularly in areas of

large-scale expansion, human resource development must be a key compo-

nent of national and regional plans.

National Spiritual Assemblies in countries where large-scale expansion was

taking place to establish teaching institutes to meet the deepening needs

of the thousands who were entering the faith. At that time, the emphasis

was on acquiring a physical facility to which group after group of newly

enrolled believers would be invited to attend deepening courses. over the

years, in conjunction with these institutes, and often independent of them,

a number of courses—referred to, for example, as weekend institutes, five-213.11

213.12

213.13

213.14

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

68day institutes, and nine-day institutes—were developed for the purpose of

helping the friends gain an understanding of the fundamental verities of

the faith and arise to serve it. These efforts have contributed significantly

to the enriching of the spiritual life of the believers and will undoubtedly

continue in the future.

with the growth in the number of enrollments, it has become apparent

that such occasional courses of instruction and the informal activities of community life, though important, are not sufficient as a means of human resource development, for they have resulted in only a relatively small band of active supporters of the cause. These believers, no matter how dedicated,

no matter how willing to make sacrifices, cannot attend to the needs of hundreds, much less thousands, of fledgling local communities. System-atic attention has to be given by bahá’í institutions to training a significant

number of believers and assisting them in serving the cause according to

their g od-given talents and capacities.

The development of human resources on a large scale requires that the

establishment of institutes be viewed in a new light. in many regions, it

has become imperative to create institutes as organizational structures dedi-cated to systematic training. The purpose of such training is to endow ever-growing contingents of believers with the spiritual insights, the knowledge, and the skills needed to carry out the many tasks of accelerated expansion

and consolidation, including the teaching and deepening of a large number

of people—adults, youth and children. This purpose can best be achieved through well-organized, formal programs consisting of courses that follow

appropriately designed curricula.

As an agency of the National Spiritual Assembly, the training institute

should be charged with the task of developing human resources in all or

part of a country. The requirements of expansion and consolidation in the

country or region will dictate the complexity of its organization. in some

instances, the institute may consist of a group of dedicated believers with

a well-defined program and some administrative arrangement that enables it to offer regular training courses. in many cases, in addition to a group

of teachers associated with it, the institute will require part- and full-time staff, for whom assistance from the funds of the faith may be necessary.

The institute needs access to some physical facilities in which it can conduct

courses and, at some stage of its development, may require a building of

its own. irrespective of whether or not an institute has its own physical

facilities, its teachers must offer courses both at a central location and in the 213.15

213.16

213.17

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

69villages and towns so that an appreciable number of believers can enter its

programs. The complexity and number of courses offered by an institute, as

well as the size of its staff and the pool of teachers from which it draws, may

call for the appointment of a board to direct its affairs. when the region

under the influence of an institute is large, it may have branches serving specific areas, each with its own administration.

for the new thrust in the establishment of institutes to succeed, the ac-

tive involvement of the counselors and Auxiliary board members in their

operation is essential. Such involvement will help the counselors to kindle

“the fire of the love of god in the very hearts and souls of his servants,”

“to diffuse the divine fragrances,” “to edify the souls of men,” “to promote

learning,” and “to improve the character of all men.”

213-2 These institutes

will provide the counselors and Auxiliary board members with immediate

access to a formal means of educating the believers, in addition to other avenues available to them such as conferences, summer schools, and meet-ings with the friends. institutes should be regarded as centers of learning,

and since their character harmonizes with, and provides scope for the exer-

cise of, the educational responsibilities of the Auxiliary board members, we

have decided that intimate involvement in institute operations should now

become a part of the evolving functions of these officers of the faith. The

counselors and National Spiritual Assemblies will need to consult on the

details of the collaboration between the two arms of the Administrative or-

der in overseeing the budget and functioning of an institute and in planning

program content, developing curricula, and delivering courses. if a board of

directors is named, its membership should be decided upon by the National Spiritual Assembly in consultation with the counselors and with their full

support; Auxiliary board members may serve on these bodies.

in addition to having a working relationship with Auxiliary board mem-

bers, the institute must necessarily collaborate closely with local Assemblies

and committees in charge of administering plans and projects of expan-sion and consolidation. This will ensure that the institute’s programs are designed to help raise up individuals who can contribute effectively to such

plans. however, even if these administrative bodies have not yet developed

the capacity to utilize the talents of those being trained, the programs of

the institute should be regularly carried out. After all, the strengthening of

213-2. bA, pp. 3, 8.213.18

213.19

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

70the institutions in a region depends, as do all other matters, on skilled and

confirmed supporters of the f aith.

in developing its programs, the institute should draw on the talents of

a growing number of believers and should also take advantage of its insti-tutional links to have access to resources worldwide. A newly established institute will often utilize materials created by institutes in other parts of

the world. gradually, those designing and delivering courses will learn how

these materials might be supplemented to better suit their specific needs

and will decide what new ones should be created. The curriculum of the institute at any given time, then, may well use a combination of materials

created locally and those that have proven successful elsewhere. As institutes

begin to flourish, a wide variety of curricula will be developed for vari-ous training needs. we hope that, with the assistance of the international

Teaching center, you will be able to assess the materials available from time

to time and help the institutes in the communities you serve to select those most appropriate for their needs.

we are placing at the disposal of the Teaching center funds specifically

designated for the operation of institutes and intend to call on National Spiritual Assemblies, according to their circumstances, to pay particular at-tention to the development of institutes in their countries. it is our hope

that significant progress in this direction will constitute one of the distin-

guishing features of the f our y ear p lan.

The development of the local community and the functioning of the

local Spiritual Assembly have been ongoing challenges to the bahá’í world

through successive plans. At present, a few thousand local Spiritual Assem-

blies have attained at least a basic level of functioning. National and regional

plans will clearly have to include provision for the adoption by such As-semblies of local plans of expansion and consolidation. To ensure that local

plans contribute to the advancement of the process of entry by troops, you

will need to call upon your Auxiliary board members and their assistants to

work closely with these Assemblies, both in the formulation of plans and in their execution, helping them to shoulder the responsibility of systematic

growth in their own communities and in localities adopted as extension

goals. The community must become imbued with a sense of mission and the Assembly grow in awareness of its role as a channel of god’s grace not

only for the bahá’ís but for the entire village, town or city in which it serves.

however, in those many communities where no organized activities are

taking place, whether or not a local Spiritual Assembly has been elected, 213.20

213.21

213.22

213.23

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

71more basic challenges have to be addressed, and in this the Auxiliary board

members and their assistants must play a fundamental role. concerted ef-

fort must be made to help the individual believers, men and women alike,

increase their love for bahá’u’lláh and his cause and to bring them together

in the Nineteen day feast as well as periodic meetings aimed at raising their

awareness of their identity as a community. in those localities where the

participation of women in community affairs is lagging, determined steps have to be taken to foster such participation. effective measures have to be

adopted so that the local Spiritual Assembly is properly elected year after

year and consistent progress in its functioning is made. The regular holding

of bahá’í children’s classes should be given high priority. indeed in many

parts of the world this is the first activity in a process of community build-

ing, which, if pursued vigorously, gives rise to the other developments. in

all this, particular attention needs to be given to the youth, who are often the faith’s most enthusiastic supporters. The establishment of these activi-

ties defines a first stage in the process of community development, which, once attained, must be followed by subsequent stages until a community

reaches a point where it can formulate its own plans of expansion and

consolidation.

in this context, we feel that the Auxiliary board members should take

further advantage of the possibility of naming, where appropriate, more than one assistant to a given community, with the intention of assigning

each to promote one or more of these fundamental community activities. we also urge you to consult with National Spiritual Assemblies on the expe-

rience of past endeavors to assist such communities. Arrangements can then be made for the lessons learned from this experience to be discussed with the active supporters of the faith in each region, helping them to identify

the approaches and methods applicable to their specific conditions and to

set in motion a systematic process of community development. This process

should be one in which the friends review their successes and difficulties, adjust and improve their methods accordingly, and learn, and move forward unhesitatingly.

in general, we feel the functions of the Auxiliary board members for

protection have to be clarified and their influence augmented. The deepen-

ing of the friends and the proper functioning of the local Spiritual As-

sembly are essential to the healthy growth of the community and should be important concerns of the Auxiliary board members for protection. we

are contemplating an increase in the membership of protection boards to 213.24

213.25

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

72make the number equal to that of the propagation boards. it is our hope

that p rotection board members will, in turn, name more assistants to focus

on issues related to community development.

Election of Local Spiritual Assemblies

in developing the Administrative order, the guardian established the first

day of ri¤ván as the day when all local Spiritual Assemblies should be

elected. during his own lifetime, this practice was followed as the number

of local Assemblies steadily grew to over one thousand.

in the subsequent two decades the faith expanded greatly, especially in

the rural areas of the world, often remote and difficult to reach. in view of

certain cases, when the local friends failed to elect their Spiritual Assembly

on the first day of ri¤ván, they could do so on any subsequent day of the

ri¤ván festival. This permission did not apply to all localities, but to those

that, in the judgment of the National Spiritual Assembly, were particularly

affected by such factors as illiteracy, remoteness, and unfamiliarity with

concepts of bahá’í Administration. The house of justice also gave permis-

sion at the beginning of the five year plan for Assemblies being formed for

the first time to be elected at any point during the year.

These provisions have enabled the believers in a large number of locali-

ties to receive assistance in electing their local Spiritual Assemblies, and

much experience has been gained in strengthening local Assemblies under

diverse conditions in a vast array of cultural settings. Nevertheless, in prin-ciple, the initiative and responsibility for electing a local Spiritual Assembly

belong primarily to the bahá’ís in the locality, and assistance from outside

is ultimately fruitful only if the friends become conscious of this sacred

responsibility. As progress is made in the training of human resources and in

the development of the entire range of bahá’í community life, the capacity

of the friends to elect their local Spiritual Assemblies on their own will

certainly grow.

with these thoughts in mind, we have decided that, beginning at ri¤ván

1997, the practice of electing all local Spiritual Assemblies on the first day

of ri¤ván will be reinstituted. we recognize that the immediate result may

be a reduction in the number of local Spiritual Assemblies at ri¤ván 1997,

but we are confident that subsequent years will witness a steady increase.

The National Spiritual Assemblies and their agencies on the one hand,

and the counselors and their auxiliaries on the other, clearly have a duty to 213.26

213.27

213.28

213.29

213.30

1993–1996  •  T h e  Th r e e  Ye a r  Pl a n

7foster the establishment and development of bahá’í communities, includ-

ing their divinely ordained local institutions. This duty can be discharged

mainly through sustained educational programs which create in the believ-

ers the awareness of the importance of the Teachings in every area of their individual and social lives and which engender in them the desire and de-termination to elect and support their local Spiritual Assemblies. These

programs should take full advantage of the provision that has been made for the temporary formation of administrative committees of three or more members in localities where local Assemblies are not elected, or where the

members of a local Assembly fail to meet.

Financial Needs

The magnitude of the tasks the bahá’í community is being summoned to

perform during the four year plan will call for a considerable outlay of

funds. The pressing demands of the Arc projects will continue to place

severe constraints on the international funds of the faith. yet, the universal

house of justice will do its utmost to make available to the counselors

and the National Spiritual Assemblies the financial means necessary for the discharge of the tasks of expansion and consolidation in areas requiring as-sistance. This will include funds for the all-important work of the Auxiliary boards.

As experience has shown, however, the expenditure of money does not,

by itself, bring results. The challenge before you is to help develop in the various institutions and agencies involved in the execution of the plan the

capacity to expend funds in a judicious and effective manner. in addition,

you must redouble your efforts to educate every member of the bahá’í com-

munity—the new and the old believer, the youth and the adult—on the spiritual significance of contributing to the fund. we are confident that you

will give special attention to this twofold challenge as you set out to help the friends in every continent to win victories for the cause during these crucial

years in the history of humanity.

dear friends, the few short years that separate us from the close of the

century are a period of both spiritual potency and immense opportunity. great responsibilities rest on your shoulders. during the first months of the

plan you will be making a decisive contribution to the formulation of plans

that will inspire the friends to action and will guide them in their individual and collective endeavors. Throughout the plan, you and your auxiliaries will

encourage the friends, stimulate the spiritual powers latent in their hearts, 213.31

213.32

213.33

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

7and assist them in fulfilling their duties towards a cause so dear to them.

As you take up these manifold tasks, you must constantly bear in mind that

the realization of the aim of the four year plan will depend on the rapid

increase in the number of teachers of the cause who will bring in the mul-

titudes, nurture them, and infuse in them “so deep a longing” as to impel

them “to arise independently” and devote their energies “to the quickening

of other souls.”213-3

be assured that we will remember each and all of you in the holy Shrines.

214

Formation of Two New National Spiritual Assemblies

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]