THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1968-09-08

To the Bahá’ís of the World

Dear Bahá’í Friends,

66.1 The glorious Conference in Palermo concluded with a burst of eager enthusiasm of determined and dedicated believers who have pledged to do their part in winning the remaining goals of the Nine Year Plan.  More than 125 offered to pioneer and more than 100 volunteered to do travel teaching.  In addition, there was a generous outpouring of material resources to finance teaching projects.  Had the entire Bahá’í world been able to participate in the Mediterranean Conference we have no doubt that all the goals would be quickly won.

66.2 With this in mind we wish to impress upon the friends who could not attend the Conference, and who will surely—through reports and personal contact with those who did—sense the enthusiasm generated there, that all believers have the privilege to share in the pioneering work, in the travel teaching program and in contributing to the Fund.

10766.3 We announced at the Conference that the International Deputization Fund, so far used to aid pioneering and travel teaching on an international level, will henceforth be available to assist such projects on the national level in those areas where support is vitally important to the winning of the goals of the Nine Year Plan.  We are concerned that, although we are now approaching the midway point of the Plan we must yet form an additional 6,997 Local Spiritual Assemblies (76% of the goal), and take the Faith to over 22,800 new localities (59% of the goal). Obviously, hundreds of pioneers and traveling teachers will be required, many of whom will serve in their own countries.

66.4 Those who cannot pioneer or do travel teaching will want to participate by contributing to the International Deputization Fund.  Let them remember Bahá’u’lláh’s injunction:  “Center your energies in the propagation of the Faith of God.  Whoso is worthy of so high a calling, let him arise and promote it.  Whoso is unable, it is his duty to appoint him who will, in his stead, proclaim this Revelation ...”  Let the Bahá’ís of the World join in the true spirit of universal participation and win all the victories while there is yet time.  Let each assume his full measure of responsibility that all may share the laurels of accomplishment at the end of the Plan. 66.5 Our fervent prayer is that this one-hundredth anniversary of the final banishment of Bahá’u’lláh will mark a significant turning-point in the fortunes of the Nine Year Plan. With loving Bahá’í greetings,

THEUNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

67 Letter to Youth—Pioneering and Education

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]